US	51066645	RKH6EFHJ8ISAZ	078686561X	601082588	Wishing Well: Making Your Every Wish Come True	Books	1	12	37	N	N	Wishy-washy wish book is not worth your while	If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride. Or so the old saying goes. This dull, pedestrian treatise begs a little more horsepower in its chapters. <br />Can't sleep? Then do pick up &quot;Wishing Well.&quot; It  takes a rather childish subject and tries make it into a medical research  project.<br /> Author Paul Pearsall, who appeared on the Oprah Winfrey show  with this book, can't decide what sort of book he wants to write. One  minute, he's telling you about his strange near death experience in the  hospital, the next, about parents talking to their kids when watching a  meteor shower. He may then jump to the psychology of wishing or tell you  about a witch doctor's wish or draw confusing diagrams about wising on  stars. Oh yes, there's also a lot of pop quizzes to further muddle up the  reader.<br />Wasn't it Washington Irving who said great minds have purposes,  others have wishes? Pearsall has a lot of wishes, but doesn't seem to have  a clear purpose in writing this book. Even at Amazon.com's great prices,  you may end up wishing you hadn't bought it!	2000-07-04
US	51066645	R2HMFU1BWC31H3	015201716X	312307625	Mary Poppins in the Park (Harcourt Brace Young Classics)	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Mary Poppins Pops In For Parties in the Park	When adults forget their childhood pals, daydreamers make foolish wishes and the wind blows unusually strong, it always leads to something quite out of the ordinary -- that is, whenever Mary Poppins is around.<br />In this, the  final Mary Poppins book that P.L. Travers gave us before her death at age  90, we share the five Banks' childrens' adventures. Besides Jane and  Michael, who were in the classic Disney movie, there are also toddler twins  John and Barbara and infant Annabel.<br />A big departure from the Disney  flick is Mary Poppins herself. Here, she is not the smiling, syrupy sweet  nanny that young Julie Andrews portrayed; rather, the book's title  character is strict, stern, often sarcastic and very taken with herself.  Her strong personality makes her a unique storybook character and readers  will find this Mary Poppins more of an enigma. Which, frankly, makes for  better stories.<br />Everything in this book is G-rated but not preachy.  Travers gives her young readers many fascinating, but never frightening,  fantasy situations. Or are they real? Jane and Michael can never quite  tell. The lines between what's real and what's not always blur around Mary  Poppins.<br />This book is  a series of unrelated chapters, self-contained  stories, all dealing with the same main characters. Nothing is ever as it  seems in the nursery of No. 17 Cherry Tree Lane -- or in the nearby  park.<br />On a hot summer's day, Mary Poppins tells the children a tale of a  hobo who was an angel in disguise, shedding his rags and growing wings as  he flies away.<br /> In another chapter, Michael, upset that he's caught a  cold, finds that some days when everything seems to be going all right,  it's actually going all wrong. He's taught a valuable lesson on a planet  full of cats. <br />Later in the book, the children find messages on falling  leaves. And witness a delightful, but not frightening, Halloween shadow  dance in the park. <br /> The nanny's magical cousin, Mr. Mo, isintroduced.  Jane finds the little toy figures she's created and destroyed do have lives  of their own.<br /> Around Mary Poppins, adults -- including favorites such as  Admiral Boom, Miss Lark and her two dogs Andrew and Willoughby, the Bird  Woman and Bert -- are caught off balance. Zookeepers, policemen and taxi  drivers react to a flurry of frenzied events. Characters pop out of  storybooks, out of Jane's mind, and off ceramic bookends. Lions and  unicorns and even Indian chiefs prance through the park. <br />We are taken to  worlds that exist between the blades of grass in the lawn, and up in the  sky, to where felines and children disappear. There are traffic snarls,  wedding breakfasts and birthday parties. And through it all, stalks Mary  Poppins, with not a hair out of place. In very short order, characters get  what they deserve, if not what they expect, and things are set right.  <br />How does she do it? No one knows. Mary Poppins, you see, never, ever  explains. But, she always entertains.  Have some fun in the park with this  magical nanny.	2000-07-04
US	51066645	R1W8JZ2C82LSO8	0805420789	210481975	Debt-Proof Living: The Complete Guide to Living Financially Free	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Mary Hunt is right on the money!	This is one of the most helpful book on saving and managing money that has ever come out -- and I read almost all of them.<br />Money is not for spending, Hunt tells us. It is for managing first. And she shows you how to  manage your money, and your life, so that everything works out for the  best.<br />A Christian writer, Mary Hunt includes the concept of tithing,  giving one's first 10 percent to the church, as part of one's overall  financial strategy. I appreciate the fact she does this. By following  Mary's other strategies, tithers won't even miss that 10 percent.<br />Mary's  no-nonsense straight talk debunks the hype that many advertisers give out.  You'll learn the truth about student loans, leasing cars, buying new cars,  credit cards, insurance and much, much more.<br />Need to pay a mountain of  debts? Hunt has the formula. She shows you how to whittle away those loan  payments and credit card bills. Once you do that, she explains how to  invest and save your money.<br />Her best ideas concern setting up bank  account for those financial &quot;emergencies&quot; that really aren't. We  know -- but don't plan for -- our twice-yearly insurance payments, property  tax, and occasional car and home repairs. And what's going to happen if you  have a sudden illness or lose your job? Instead of putting such expenses on  charge cards, Mary shows us how to set up special bank accounts, with  special bookeeping methods, that will enable us to pay our way in cash. By  having a purpose toward which we spend our money, we won't fritter away our  raises.<br />She's blunt when she needs to be. For example, she says your car  should be a means of transportation, not a status symbol. Your common  sense, not your ego, should drive your vehicle purchases.<br /> And as for  students who want to go to expensive colleges just so they can socialize  there, Mary gets the stars out of your -- and your parents' -- eyes. She  relates some student loan horror stories that every family should know long  before high school graduation. Don't take out a loan just to live off  campus or buy a computer; and if you can get educated without taking out a  loan, so much the better. Students who work to pay part of their college  are less likely to slack off their studies. <br />Every time I pick up  &quot;Debt-Proof Living,&quot; I find something else I can use. This book  is worth its weight in gold. Everyone should read and heed its advice.	2000-06-27
US	51066645	R15D4FTPRYEC6U	0895296578	362714917	The Complete Book of Dental Remedies	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Don't grin and bear a toothache -- here's help	If the word &quot;dentist&quot; brings to mind a certain song from &quot;Little Shop of Horrors,&quot; you may have avoided your twice-a-year visits to such a professional. Sometimes, it catches up with you. What do  you do if your filling falls out or you break a tooth? Don't panic. But  don't avoid taking action.<br />Grab this book. California dentist Flora  Parson Stay says she wrote this helpful volume after finding few references  on dentistry for her patients. <br />And she's right. Hey, the only remedy for  toothache I can ever remember reading is in Mark Twain's fictional Tom  Sawyer -- out-of-date information from the same kid who took dead cats to  the cemetary to get rid of warts. Not to worry. Dr. Stay, who has more than  two decades' experience as a DDS, gives modern advice for toothache  sufferers.<br />This is stuff we need to know. Too often, we have our family  first aid kit equipped for every kind of emergency -- except dental ones.  This book needs to be kept right next to your regular First Aid  manual.<br />If your Little Leaguer gets popped by a bat, or fields a fastball  that knocks his tooth out, did you know you can re-attach it? For real.  Stay's on son suffered such an accident. His tooth reattached itself --  yours can, too. Surprise!<br />Knocked out teeth may be successfully replaced  if done within a half-hour's time, Stay advises. Never hold the tooth by  the root. Simply rinse off any blood or dirt and replace it in the socket.  Then, get to the dentist immediately. <br />If you can't get to the dentist  within that golden 30 minute time period,she says, keep the knocked-out  tooth wrapped in a moist cloth or gauze, or placed in a container in milk.  Dr. Stay says adults can simply leave the tooth under their tounge until  they're seen by the dentist; this is a potential choking hazard for  children, however.<br />Dr. Stay tells you how to put together a dental first  aid kit, and what to do if you have an abcess, a cracked tooth, alost  filling or problems with your wisdom teeth. If your temporary crown falls  out, stop by a drugstore for a temporary fix-it kit. There's information  for denture wearers and people who may have suffered a broken jaw. Advice  when to -- and when not to -- use over-the-counter painkillers for the hurt  in your mouth. <br />Don't call the Tooth Fairy, consult The Complete Book of  Dental Remedies instead. You'll feel better fast and have reason to smile.	2000-06-26
US	51066645	R1FZY6OL3RCLGU	0670858579	348546349	The Secret Language of Birthdays: Personology Profiles for Each Day of the Year	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Better than a birthday card!	Don't think that a person's personality is influenced by his date of birth? Then check out the profile for Oct. 9, the birthday of John Lennon. <br />Those born on this day, the authors claim, are multi-talented, have a  strong magnetism and the ability to see into the lives events of those  around them with an accurate, critical eye. There's lots more, including  the fact they can be swept away by their emotions for one person.  Hmmmm....<br />Authors Gary Goldenschneider and Joost Elffers delve into  astrological and mystical teachings -- including numerology and Tarot card  readings -- to profile the personality characteristics of those born on  every single day of the year.<br /> Each birthday has its own two-page spread  chock full of fascinating facts. And, there's a list of famous (and  infamous) people born on that day. Do you share a birthday with your  favorite movie star? A notorious criminal?<br /> You can cross reference to  other sections of the book that detail the astrological influences at play  on a particular date.<br />  This is a nice, thick coffee table book, amply  illustrated, that will provide fun and fascinating reading. And, yes, it  would make a great birthday gift!	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R1PE1K8IP09IA3	0306806479	40485249	Heroes And Villains: The True Story Of The Beach Boys	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Not all fun and sun	This Beach Boy biography gives a disturbing look into the troubled lives of rock'n'roll's quintessential California poster children. Their music was a soundtrack for fun in the sun; yet, their lives were anything but a day  at the beach. <br />Gaines' story ends with the death of kid brother Dennis  Wilson, and tells of his wild, rebellious life. Eldest brother Brian's life  is a study in contrasts -- he's a talented genius, a sensitive soul with a  troubled mind. Middle brother Carl tried to mediate an impossible  situation, between his brothers and overbearing father.<br /> Things get rocky  as the group split into two factions -- between the members who were into  meditation and those who were into drugs.  Many of their relationships were  rough surfing indeed; not at all like the lovely harmonies on their  recordings. <br /> If you want to get a behind-the-scenes look at the life and  times of the Beach Boys, this is a compelling read; if, on the other hand,  you'd rather only remember the good vibrations, you might want to skip it.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R1OCBASAVL4NMS	0152017178	312307625	Mary Poppins (Odyssey Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Harry Potter can't dim Mary Poppins' wonderful British magic	P.L. Travers' original deptiction of Mary Poppins is NOT anything like Julie Andrews' cheerful, smiling character in the classic Disney movie. Instead, this nanny is very proper, stern and strict, a model of British efficiency, complete with a stiff upper lip. Only on rare occasions does  her steely exterior give way and we get a glimpse of her heart of gold.  <br />Yet, this gruffed up version of magical, mysterious Mary Poppins is  practically perfect in every way. You won't need a spoonful of sugar to get  kids to read this classic. Harry Potter can't compete with Mary's timeless  appeal or her supercalifragilisticexpialadocious (did I spell it right?)  magic powers; she's every bit as wonderous as you remember from years ago.  Mary Poppins flies in on her parrot-head umbrella, straight into your  heart.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R10U8ORZOS1HN4	0684849739	431236317	The Bible Code	Books	2	2	8	N	N	As troubling as the Book of Revelations	Could the ancient scriptures contain messages for modern man that computers can only now decode? <br />The author believes its possible -- and finds hidden reference to past historic events and future catastrophies  such as earthquakes and nuclear wars. Each one has a year attached to it,  and the past events were right on the money. These are not vague,  Nostradamous-like puzzles that could have various interpretations, but  brief, to-the-point, clearly defined phrases that include actual names.  <br />While Drosnin is not religious, he examines the evidence in a  dispassionate, scientific manner and describes his efforts to warn Middle  Eastern leaders of upcoming dangers. <br />Can we ward off these calamities or  is our fate already sealed? I was intrigued, and a bit shaken, by this  fascinating subject.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R16WEPVKUUTO2T	1585420093	246791370	The Right to Write: An Invitation and Initiation into the Writing Life	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Profoundly poetic passages into the writer's inner soul	Whether you're a writer or a wannabe, Julia Cameron's wonderful insights will inspire and enlighten you. And help you along the way in your life's journey to create. <br />Like many of her books, it will give you the  encouragement to celebrate who you are, a unique and creative being, and to  write for yourself.  Don't worry about the commercial business of writing  and marketing. Be true to yourself as you create and, Cameron assures us,  your auidence will come.<br />This is a beautifully-written book and it has  profound insights about life, writing and our sacred callings. I was very  much touched by the author's understanding of why it is we write.     <br />Cameron focuses in on those golden moments of life, many of them the  &quot;little&quot; things we might take for granted, then goes deep inside  to probe the meaning and purpose. <br />  Writing brings out your soul's  connection to the universe, and it enriches you in a way nothing else can.  Creativity is the divine spark we get from our heavenly Creator, and the  act of writing is shown to be the sacred way we get in touch with our  innermost feelings.<br /> Cameron is like a wise and loving angel showing us  why we need to disconnect from our hurried, harried modern lifestyles and  to go apart and write. Ignore your critics' voices, whether they are in the  form of an inner, nagging thought or another person belittling your  writing. Keep a morning journal of your own personal story. Not only do we  have the right to write, Cameron admonishes, we have the duty. It brings  out our humanity; it enriches our everyday lives.<br /> Every page has a pithy  quote of wisdom and insight. Cameron is an artist and a genius. Her  descriptions are outstanding. She embraces life and the inner spark of  creativity that too often is left untended. We all are writers, Cameron  says, and we all must write. <br />Cameron's prose is profoundly poetic. You  will read, and re-read, her chapters again and again. And call yourself a  writer.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R38O8OIB2T154Q	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	4	6	7	N	N	John Gray negotiates a truce in the Battle of the Sexes	John Gray might not end the Battle of the Sexes, but he comes close to negotiating a truce. We ARE on different wavelengths, he says, and he translates each gender's seemingly odd behavior in a way the opposite sex  can understand. <br />Your mantra for every chapter will be &quot;Gee, I  didn't know that!&quot; <br />My church used this book as a basis for a  discussion group; each week's chapter resulted in a lively and fascinating  exchange. And several &quot;lightbulb moments&quot; when we suddenly got a  flash of insight.<br /> For anyone who has ever been baffled by the opposite  sex (and haven't we all?), this book is must reading indeed.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R2U3T85BZEE6MU	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fiction with a heart from a master storyteller	A terrifying incident causes an uptown corporate lawyer to turn his life around, end his empty marriage and take to the mean streets helping the poor and the homeless. But his help comes too late. He follows the tangled  trail leading to those responsible for a young black family's tragic deaths  -- and it takes him to all-too-familiar territory. <br />Not only is he a  master storyteller, but in this book, Grisham deals with our society's  forgotten people in a compassionate manner. We cannot simply dismiss the  homeless as not our problem. He makes their humanity show through, so that  we do care about their despair. This is fiction with a heart, and it is  recommended reading.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R2LE5E7QIL1XG0	0890153914	687467001	Krasna Amerika: A Study of Texas Czechs, 1851-1939	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Czechs and balances to an overlooked history	Krasna Amerika -- the title translates to &quot;Beautiful America&quot; after lyrics in a Czech waltz -- is an American story in every sense of the word. But it covers an entire ethnic group.<br />If your only knowlege of  Texas Czech culture is a kolache, or a cold beer at Westfest on Labor Day,  here's a book that will introduce you to one of the most important, and  sometimes most overlooked, ethnic groups in the Lone Star State.<br />This is  a colorful story of how Moravians, Bohemians and others who lived in what  is now the Czech Republic and Slovakia -- places where, as one immigrant  said, there was &quot;too many people and not enough land&quot; -- made new  lives for themselves in the new world. Starting about 1848, they made their  way to Galveston and to Texas, even though their ties to the old country  remained strong until the second world war. This unique culture, its rich  language and heritage, is explained in detail.<br /> Unlike the few paragraphs  afforded to the Czechs in most Texas history books, this work will give a  complete and vivid picture of a hard working, prospering people.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	RTZJQ5R9DZGJX	0446364800	859674593	The General's Daughter	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A commanding military murder mystery	A murder, a mystery, a military coverup. The orderly world of a tight little Army base is turned on its head when a woman's body is found on a rifle range. This strange case involves the base commander's own daughter,  a respected officer in her own right. Beneath the surface lurks scandals  and secrets that destroy more than just a military career. With every twist  and turn, you'll be captivated by this mystery.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R1HRJGP0HSFL0R	0375752250	136519110	The Complete Tightwad  Gazette: Promoting Thrift as a Viable Alternative Lifestyle	Books	4	36	40	N	N	Want to Be A Millionaire? The Small Change Adds Up	Surprise! You don't have to go on a quiz show or live before the TV cameras with a bunch of strangers to come into big money. Amy Dacyczyn, the self-proclaimed Frugal Zealot, shows you how to do it yourself: save a  little here, a little there. Make frugality your lifestyle. Track  prices  and purchases. Those pennies add up to big bucks.<br />The author's  money-saving tips were originally brought out during recessionary times,  but don't turn up your nose. Even in a good economy, saving is important.  And it will become even more so if inflation returns. So get in the habit  now!<br /> What you don't spend, you can invest. Dacyczyn, whose name is  pronounced &quot;decision,&quot; demonstrates that the little decisions we  make every day make a big difference over time. And they affect the overall  bottom line. <br />Her -- and her saavy readers' -- advice to drivers and car  owners is worth its weight in gold in the Summer of 2000's high gas price  economy. Ditto, her lecture about not charging full speed ahead with your  credit cards. Those items alone will more than pay for your book  purchase.<br />I like the book's spirit. Being a tightwad, the Frugal Zealot  says, is FUN! You'll be proud of your ingenuity. Bargain hunt, barter and  buy on sale or secondhand. Above all, watch what you spend. And eat. <br />  You don't have to skip the celebrations to cut costs. The Frugal Zealot is  an experienced mom; she shows how to make your kid the most original  Halloween costumes ever and put on fabulous birthday parties using  discarded items. Her description of tightwad weddings make them sound more  delightful than the big -- and no doubt overpriced -- storybook weddings  touted in most magazines. <br />Stay out of the malls and shop the garage  sales -- you'll save a fortune and have a wonderful &quot;yard  sailing&quot; adventure every Saturday. You can make the outdated clothes  fashionable again with a few scissor snips, and collect Leggos and Lincoln  logs for your kids for pennies on the dollar. <br />Even if you don't want to  dumpster dive, water down your shampoo or cut your own hair, there are  plenty of clever tips to inspire you. She gives dozens of painless ways to  save $100. Drink tap water, not soda pop; find free entertainment; use  clotheslines, not clothes dryers; don't buy Tupperware when you can save  and use butter tubs; and brush your teeth, you'll save a wad at the  dentist. <br />Environmentally concerned readers will delight in tips how to  use and reuse everything from razor blades to building materials.<br /> Big  ticket items are covered, too: everything from travel to home ownership to  unsubscribing from the idea that Christmas is all about spending  money.<br />What to do with all that loot you save? Invest in the stock  market, save for your kids' educations or your own retirement -- and  realize the American Dream. Make this book your money Bible and you'll  become debt- and worry free.	2000-06-25
US	51066645	R1H40UTR7M3G1T	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Like A Sip of Mint Julep On A Muggy Summer Day	Like a sip of mint julep on a muggy summer day, John Berendt'sslow, sultry Southern style of storytelling is a delight. Thismasterfully written nonfiction work has as many outstanding -- and quirky -- characters as the most vividly conceived fiction. And about as many plot turns!<br /> We're taken on a romp through staid and stodgy old Savannah, its historic squares isolated in mystique. As layer by layer is unpeeled, the town's innermost secrets are revealed. From the political intrigue of rival, neighborning restorationists in the silk stocking district to the naughty highjinks of a female impersonator on the wrong side of the tracks, we see it all. We go to incredible parties, visit cemeteries and see all kinds of games that are played.<br />Along the way, we meet the mad scientist who leashes houseflies and introduces glow-in-the-dark goldfish; the party-hearty lawyer/tour operator whose life is a 24-hour Mardi Gras, going on one step ahead of his creditors, in housing he hasn't paid for; the drug-abusing angry young man, a walking streak of sex, whose main talent is making his car airborne a la Dukes of Hazzard; and the Voodoo priestess in purple sunglasses, her shopping bag containing graveyard dirt and chicken parts, employing black magic on the judicial process.<br />Each time you think you know the direction this book is headed, it abruptly changes course...<br /> The only disappointment in this book is upon finishing the last page. Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is an instant classic. Berendt paints a rich, compelling portrait -- a panoramic view.	2000-06-24
US	51066645	R1WBRP5OQ12A6V	0345409876	737501549	Women Who Run with the Wolves: Myths and Stories of the Wild Woman Archetype	Books	3	128	149	N	N	Wisdom and Native Lore: Women's Traditional Stories Retold	Ancient cultures the world over have all had oral traditions as the roots of their literature, both for the purposes of education and entertainment. <br />In the darkness by the fireside, story-tellers enthralled their fellow  tribesmen with tales handed down through countless generations and  centuries.   <br /> What determines which stories are told and re-told on  through the ages? Usually, they are tales which illustrate a moral value, a  particular quality or a lesson that a particular society deems important.  Whether it be a cautionary tale or a legend demonstrating a virtue, we get  great insights into what is valued by examining the old, old stories.<br />   Until recent years with the advent of Women's Studies on university  campuses, the teachings imparted to one's daughters and grandaughters were  often overlooked. That glaring omission has been rectified through Clarissa  Pinkola Estes' incredible book.<br /> &quot;Women Who Run With the  Wolves&quot; is not light reading by any means, but is a scholarly  exploration of the feminine character. Has civilization tried to strangle  our basic &quot;Wild Woman&quot; inner natures? And, if so, at what cost  has the shrew been tamed?<br /> &quot;Women Who Run With the Wolves&quot;  contains some familiar stories from our collective childhoods: The Little  Match Girl and Bluebeard. But these are not the soothing, toned-down  versions to read by your toddlers' bedsides. Instead, they are terrifying  and real.<br /> Estes, who is both a Jungian analyst/psychologist and  professional storyteller, vividly recounts the visceral details of often  violent folklore.  <br />Not only are European nursery tales included, but the  book is global in scope. Estes also weaves in less familiar traditions,  such as stories from the Lakota Indians. The one element running through  all the stories is how they relate to women's lives and spirits. <br />In each  section, the author gives a scholarly overview of why the tale was told,  what values it imparted, and why the story still speaks to us today. She  also recounts the story with great dramatic narrative, and it is easy to  imagine oneself listening to the tale around a flickering campfire late at  night. <br /> Ancient wisdom coupled with modern psychological insights make  reading this book a mind-expanding experience.	2000-06-02
US	51066645	R3V390WICT09TP	0385317093	940363725	Granny Dan	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Real-life Russian Love Story	Dancing on the coattails of history, Danielle Steele's Granny Dan is a sweeping saga based on the true life story of her grandmother.  <br />As a young woman, Granny Dan was the leading young ballerina in pre-communist  Russia, which in that society, would have been similar to being Julia  Roberts in our own country today. She charms the Russian royal family,  especially the czar's young son, and is admitted into their inner  circle.<br /> Torn between the disciplined life of a dancer in a strict ballet  school and the fairy tale-like existance at the czar's summer home, the  young woman must make painful choices. <br />An illness causes her to become  very close to her physician, a man in a loveless marriage and they fall  deeply in love. So much so that Steel's grandmother keeps all his letters  with her until she dies. Steel bases her book on the letters, which she had  translated. <br />Marrying her grandmother's real-life story with her  masterful fiction-writing techniques, Steel presents a powerful tale of  star-crossed lovers, strong characters who are real and believable. Their  passion for each other is played out against the backdrop of history. <br />We  are given a taste of what life in czarist Russia was like, and it is as if  we travel back in time with the characters. With the coming of the  communist revolution, their world is forever lost. <br />This ultimately  tragic story is a haunting one, which will stay with you long after you've  read the last page.	2000-05-27
US	51066645	R1X3BHZ9MYZPVK	0060192704	479947273	Beauty Fades, Dumb Is Forever: The Making of a Happy Woman	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Commonsense Judge's Book Wins On Appeal	TV's Judge Judy holds court in this book, a candid account of her life and the lessons she learned from living. It's a must read for every young woman -- and for her mother, too -- and would make a great gift. <br />     The  little lady judge with the big loud mouth pulls no punches. Her commonsense  advice comes from experience. She rues the day she agreed to quit a  Washington D.C. law school so that she could move back to New York and  marry; if she had to do it over, she says she now knows it would have been  better to ask her fiance to move for her career. She went from being the  top student at a leading law school to being just another ordinary student  in a lesser one.<br />   She advises young women not to do like she did,  treating their own education and career less seriously than their  husband's.<br />  Getting an education that qualifies women for well-paying  careers, the judge writes, is &quot;divorce insurance&quot;. After all,  mothers are the ones who probably will have to support their children  should they be divorced. <br />   Not everything in the book is serious. There  are laughs along the way. If you think Judge Judy bangs her gavel too  loudly in the courtroom, imagine her banging two metal frying pan lids  together, like cymbals, in the middle of the night over her sleeping  husband. That was to drive home the point that she didn't like his leaving  the toilet seat up. (Don't try this at home!)<br />   All in all, the judge  gives blunt, no-nonsense, tell-it-like-it-is words of wisdom, delivered  with the same force that she uses in her courtroom lectures. &quot;Beauty  Fades But Dumb is Forever&quot; wins on appeal.	2000-05-27
US	51066645	RDK7VL9ACA4YO	0425094995	682788101	Plain speaking: an oral biography of harry s. truman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Blunt, Honest and Right on the Money: Truman Tells All	During the height of the Watergate scandal in the 1970s, a rock group put out a hit song, &quot;America Needs You, Harry Truman.&quot; Then, as now, people wistfully wished for a president like &quot;Give 'em Hell,  Harry.&quot;<br /> Miller's oral biography will show you why. Truman didn't  pull his punches when he told you how the cow ate the cabbage. He's blunt,  honest, and right on the money.<br /> &quot;I wouldn't kick a friend who was  in trouble, no matter what it might do to win me votes,&quot; he says at  one point. Such a high degree of loyalty and ethical conduct is truly  refreshing to read, especially in this day of media-saavy, image-conscious  -- and often plastic -- professional politicians.<br />  As the song says,  &quot;Harry, come back and save the land you love.&quot; This book should  be required reading for presidential candidates, and one hopes they would  follow Truman's example of integrity and old-fashioned values.	2000-05-27
US	51066645	R3H8713JPWBG3Z	0385306040	832585943	Malice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tale of a True Survivor	Danielle Steel's sparse style of writing serves her well, pulling the reader in to a spell-binding tale of incest, murder, prison and deception. She gives an especially chilling and graphic account of women's prison and the brutality that inmates visit upon newcomers.<br /> The book traces the  uphill battle of a teenager.... .... As the book unfolds, Grace, the heroine  grows in inner strength as she enters each new chapter of her life. How she  survives attacks, both physical and emotional, is at the core of the plot  and will keep you on the edge of your seat. Readers will find themselves  caring very much for this courageous heroine who often must face her  battles alone.	2000-05-27
US	51066645	R136XRZ0Q4CYHV	0890963908	935807481	A Weekend in September	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Devastating Destruction, High Historic Drama	Waco author John Edward Weems interviewed actual survivors of the deadly 1900 hurricane that almost wiped out Galveston, Texas. He reconstructs the killer storm, blow by blow. The result is a griping narrative that has as  much real-life drama and suspense as producer James Cameron's Titanic  movie. I have read and re-read this book, and it is a fact-based thriller.  Weems describes in startling detail how some people literally had to run  from room to room as the storm blew their houses away piece by piece. So  horrific was this ordeal that several people kept their mouths open so they  could drown more quickly and get it over with. More than 6,000 people died  in this deadly storm, which occurred before the system of naming hurricanes  began. Although the book was first released in 1957, it stands the test of  time.  With the upcoming hurricane season predicted to be a bad one, this  historical account of one of the deadliest storms in American history is  once again a timely topic.	2000-05-27
US	51066645	RUCYS943GDU4A	0393313115	455746928	Lost Star: The Search for Amelia Earhart	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Daredevil or War Hero? New Evidence of Latter Role for AE	It is said to have taken Randall Brink a decade to research the information he presents in his 183 pages of text. &quot;Lost Star&quot; is a magnificant example of dogged, never-say-die investigative reporting.  <br />To get at many of the government files, written in the pre-computer era,  the author had to describe what he wanted exactly; get a date or memo title  wrong, and the government wouldn't even acknowledge its existance. Much  less give him the item.<br />Brink should be commended for tracking down  elderly ex-Lockheed employees before their deaths: they confirm that the  plane AE took off in for her final world trip, was not the same aircraft  she'd purchased. <br />The author and his sources give compelling evidence  that instead of a silly publicity stunt, this world tour was actually a spy  trip -- an allegation that neither the U.S. nor Japanese governments will  acknowledge. What happened to Earhart -- was she one of the Tokyo Rose  broadcasters? did she return to the U.S. after the war under a new  identity? -- still remains a mystery, but Brink breaks through much of the  myth. <br />I only wish that he could have completely solved the case so that  if her spy mission role was confirmed, AE and Fred Noonan could be accorded  the honors that are normally given to  war heroes. After all, they would  have been our first casualties for WWII -- even in 1937, FDR's  administration knew it was coming, and apparently had them map uncharted  African territory as well as check on Japanese military movement. <br />This  book is  a triumph and must reading for any Earhart fan, flying enthusiast,  history buff or feminist who admires the spirit of this fearless female  flyer.	2000-03-11
US	51066645	R238G0O28PZCE	0878339078	111929454	White Trash Gardening	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Get the Low-down before you put your Hoe down.	Half gardening how-to, half humor, &quot;White Trash Gardening&quot; is guaranteed to raise a few eyebrows along with lots of other plants. It's not for your great-Aunty Matilda, who gets the vapors when things get a  little off color -- but everyone else, gardener or not, should love it.  I  first read the book about three years ago when I was working full time at a  newspaper. It was so hilarious that I went around the newsroom quoting from  its pages -- and had everyone cracking up. Benton is as funny as Dave  Berry, only with a down-home Southern-fried sense of humor.And a green  thumb.    The book is actually supposed to be &quot;written&quot; by  Benton's alter-ego, one &quot;Rufus Thiabeaux Firefly,&quot; who is from  Arkansas and supposedly a distant cousin of everyone in the state,  including a certain president. Rufus, like his (in)famous kinsman occupying  the White House, is not the sort Martha Stewart would like at her garden  parties. To put it mildly. He's more like the American version of  Hyacinth's brother-in-law Onslow in the PBS series &quot;Keeping Up  Appearances&quot; -- as common as mud, in other words.     Rufus tells you  what kind of vines are good for covering up your rusty trailer, and which  kind make good ground cover. Not wanting to spend lots of dough on his  landscaping, he doesn't advocate grassy lawns. Ground cover, therefore,  cuts out the mowing, watering and most work. For &quot;high falutin'  people,&quot; ivy makes a good ground cover; Firefly's own ground cover,  however, is a '64 Chevy Impala on cinder blocks.     You don't need a  rototiller to prepare your garden. According to Rufus, just tell the  neighborhood kids your garden plot is an Indian burial ground and they can  have all the arrowheads they dig up. Two ideas for potted plants in your  living room: either some ivy or your teenaged son -- you'll get about the  same level of conversation from them both. And when you're trying to  classify your plants, Rufus's auntcategorizes them as perinnel, annual and  bisexual.     Rufus says no gardening tasks should take any longer to  finish than a six-pack of beer.    Now, the book really does have some good  gardening tips in between its jokes. And some history behind them all: in  less prosperous times a century or so ago, the &quot;po' white trash&quot;  truck farmers had to raise vegetables and crops, making sure they got  maxium yield with a minimum of money. That was the only way they survived.  So they came up with some ingenious methods that really work. These tips  were handed down from one generation to the next, but prior to Benton's  book, seldom if ever written down. Now that everyone's leaving the farm and  getting citified, these methods may be lost forever if not for books like  &quot;White Trash Gardening.&quot;      You'll want a copy for yourself  this gardening season, but buy several. They make great gifts and are  guaranteed to have Yankees and Southerners alike doubling over in laughter.	2000-03-07
US	51066645	R1VZFXZGTZGEVW	0060172789	247910624	A Long Way From Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Powerful Portrait of Strength and Courage	Connie Briscoe's &quot;A Long Way From Home&quot; is being classified as fiction. It's not, entirely.  Based on a true story, it seems very real. <br />Briscoe writes about her own ancestors, using family stories handed down  through the generations, research she's done, and an obvious love of the  subject matter. She succeeds in weaving together a fascinating biography of  sorts. It's a stirring account of the everyday lives of slaves in the South  before and during the Civil War.<br />   The three generations of women are,  first of all, survivors. They are strong, courageous and  trapped in a  nearly-hopeless situation.Overworked and sleep deprived, the women have to  watch out for all kinds of hazards -- including the possibility of rape.   Susie, a house slave, has to be very strict on her young daugther Clara;  should Clara not please the owners with her work, she could be punished,  sold or forced to work in the fields -- an even harsher life. Clara, in  turn, continues this practice with her two daughters.<br />  Always, the  slaves are subject to the whim of their masters, and their fate rests on  the owners' benevolence.<br />  At first, family has one thing going for it:  the Madisons try to keep families intact and not sell slaves without the  person's permission.  <br />Not so with subsequent owners, and granddaughter  Susan finds herself being brutally hauled off at a young age to a new owner  in the city. This is the family's punishment for her older sister's running  away to escape the same fate. The book's title comes from Susan's being a  long way from home.<br />  She does adapt, and the account of her romance with  a freed slave, later her husband, is interesting. I learned a lot about the  lives of freed slaves in the Confederacy.<br />  This book is destined to be a  &quot;must&quot; for Black History Month, but it is a wonderful read for  anyone of any ethnic background. It'd be a wonderful book for high school  libraries.<br />  With the newinterest in Thomas Jefferson's relationship  with Sally Hemmings, people will naturally be more curious about the union  of black slaves with white masters. <br />   Of course, slavery is horrible to  even contemplate, but I was even more shocked by the book's implication  that Susan, the granddaughter, may have been the (illegitimate) daughter of  the man who bought her as a &quot;wedding gift&quot; for his white  daughter. How could someone make their own child be a slave?<br /> Even worse,  Susan is so busy caring for her owners' children that her health, pregnancy  and the health of her own infant, is jeopardized.<br />   Of course, the Civil  War brings on many changes, also documented in the book. When finally free,  the former slaves still  face many hardships, but their courage and  tenacity wins out in the end. <br />   &quot;A Long Way From Home&quot; is a  moving account of the struggles of three strong women. Read it! You'll go  away with a better understanding of, and with new respect for, what the  blacks in the South had to endure.	2000-02-11
US	51066645	R3FW2UXLWBY111	0134106717	451648062	How to Have Confidence and Power in Dealing with People	Books	1	55	117	N	N	Not Tried and True, But Tired and Through	I'd ordered this book hoping to get some fresh, contemporary ideas in dealing with people in the business setting. Instead, I got something that was originally written and published in 1956. The only modern thing about  it is its price! If you want to journey back in time to a world where the  &quot;little woman&quot; is a housewife who vacuums in her high heels and  pearls, this book is for you. There is one passage where the author  actually brags about talking his wife out of getting drapes for their house  by telling her that some now-long-forgotten 1950s movie star and his wife  got some other, cheaper window coverings. I cringed at the dim-witted,  sexist attitude. It sounded like an I Love Lucy rerun, only it holds no  humor for me. If you are a relationship Luddite who hates to change with  the times, by all means read this book.It'll show you how to insult and  anger half the people around you. However, for those of us who need  up-to-the-minute advice they can use in the business world, skip this book.  You'd be better served by Dale Carnegie's classics -- at least they are  updated from time to time.	2000-01-30
US	51066645	R2VMB0HFQLVJBP	0380800608	513407151	Chasing Rainbow	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Perfect Ghost Story for Valentine's Day	Chasing Rainbow is billed as a romance novel, but it is much more! It is warm, witty, funny and a wonderful read. There's even a wee little murder mystery stirred in for good measure. It reminds me of the light romantic  comedies that Doris Day and Rock Hudson used to star in...I'm surprised Meg  Ryan and Tom Hanks haven't made this into a movie. It'd be a  blockbuster.<br />  I read this book out on the deck, and I was laughing with  every delightful new plot twist.  A gifted humor writer, Sue Civil-Brown  comes up with the zaniest, most lovable characters I've ever seen: a  no-nonsense geologist who doesn't believe in superstitions falling in love  with an adorable young psychic named Rainbow Moonglow. <br />Rainbow, you see,  was born in a commune in the 1970s; her mother was into free love and  doesn't know who the father was, but is still strict with her grown  daughters'morals. And its a tossup who has the craziest uncle, Rainbow or  her beau.<br /> The minor characters are a scream: the red-haired  psychic/mother who wears purple because her spirit guide told her to; the  retired Colonel who believes his military training can handle anything,  including ectoplasm; the flirty ex-CIA agent with his goofy T-shirts; minor  league mobsters; grandmothers who are hell on wheels on their motorbikes;  playful spooks who play tricks on the living; and an assortment of  colorful, crazy retirees in the Florida condo community.<br />  Buy this book,  it's a laugh a minute. You'll fall in love with Rainbow and her pals.	2000-01-30
US	51066645	R101XRWW040I7Y	1570231214	60621592	Dressing Smart in the New Millennium: 200 Quick Tips for Great Style	Books	5	16	20	N	N	JoAnna Nicholson Plays Fairy Godmother to Your Cinderella	Back in my school days, I used to envy the girls in my class who had big sisters. Usually, these girls were avoiding the klutzy mistakes the rest of us made because their older sisters told them the pitfalls to avoid and  what to do to be the coolest of the cool. In her book &quot;Dressing Smart  for the New Millennium,&quot; author and image consultant JoAnna Nicholson  becomes that cool, hip and in-the-know big sister for those of us who are  clueless about what looks fab and what looks drab, what looks chic and what  looks cheap and what looks terrific and sexy as opposed to terrible and  sleazy.    And, the best news: Nicholson promises us that we don't have to  be skinny little supermodels to look sensational. No matter what our  weight, height, ethnic group or appearance, she has the fashion and make up  tip to make us look like a million dollars -- and often, we don't have to  spend a dime on our wardrobe to do it. She tells how to mix and match  jackets and other separates so that one outfit can be worn a jillion ways  and gives tips about how to look great even at the end of a busy day. Did  you know that you can keep your lip color from wearing off at a meal?  Simple: just use a lipliner pencil as a first coat underneath your  lipstick; when the latter wears off the undercoating will show, making you  look like you still have lipstick on. Why didn't I think of that? And by  using shoulderpads and &quot;pegged&quot; skirts -- straight skirts that  are narrower at the hem than at the hips -- you can look more slender even  after the extra holiday pounds.    Who should buy this book? You should,  if, in the author's words, you wouldn't want your favorite movie star to  see you as you are right now. She tells us not to leave the house in  &quot;grubbies,&quot; because you never know who will see us looking our  worst.    Nicholson says that even royalty has asked her what she does to  look so good. After trying a few of her tips, and getting more complimentsthan ever before, I believe it. Before you go spend a mint on a new outfit,  invest in this book. It could save you from making a fashion mistake. And,  who knows, it could turn a few heads.	1999-12-27
