US	51062975	RN7FR2KWUBAQ	0226468011	583365534	Metaphors We Live By	Books	4	32	86	N	Y	Metaphors Can Keep Your Illusions Intact	<br />The Authors thought they had something new to say.  They did, but it was mostly new jargon (coherence, spatialization, experiential, orientational) that can never be adequately defined.  Why on earth couldn't these Authors coin metaphors to clarify their thesis?  What was their thesis?  In the Afterword they call it the Neural Theory of Language.  In short, neural connections in the brain can link the abstract idea with a concrete image and metaphorical thinking is, therefore, inescapable. <br /> <br /> When the Authors write \\"Metaphorical thought is unavoidable, ubiquitous and mostly unconscious\\"  (P. 272) what are they attempting to convey?  How can they describe something that is mostly unconscious?  Claiming that the mechanisms in the brain for using metaphor are all unconscious makes it clear they don't know what they are talking about. <br /> <br /> One problem for the authors is their claim that the concepts like UP-DOWN are universal. They often cite cultural and environmental differences to support their ideas but omit more universal differences such as the zero gravity environment.  When one is orbiting the earth in zero gravity it is difficult to find an up or a down, or a top or bottom.  Likewise, even on earth, when one stands on one's head, the feet point upward. <br /> <br /> The most audacious part of Author's thesis is that using metaphors can create a new reality.  Their claim is that if one either acts upon or believes a metaphorical view, this constitutes a \\"reality.\\"  Of course this all depends on what one calls reality.  I always preferred Phil Dick's description: \\"Reality is that which when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.\\"  <br /> <br /> The fallacy of the Author's thesis lies in their use of the term \\"concept.\\" They try to use the term concept (defined as an abstract idea) to describe being metaphorically structured.  But metaphors are, themselves, abstract or non literal use of language.  It is hard to see how using one abstraction to clarify or structure another abstract term could enhance understanding.  When using a metaphor one shape-shifts or morphs the language into a form that one person might find helpful, another comical, and still another nonsensical.  For example to say for amusement, Bette bounces around like a rubber ball, hardly adds to any understanding or a serious description of poor Bette.	2005-10-05
US	51062975	R3IS8K4S1D5F7I	0671016776	12366720	Gravity	Books	4	3	4	N	N	BETWEEN DEEP SEA & SPACE	Gerritsen writes one hell of a story.  There is a bit more gore in GRAVITY than most readers would want to digest.  Sea fungus,  arachaeons, lifted from their deep sea home, became a new species when brought to the earth's surface.  What kind of a new species?  One that became a chimera by mixing DNA of all its hosts. The new species fed off its host and gobbled up its brain and vital organs.  Not only that but this new species used animal & human flesh in which to lay its eggs.  Horror upon horror. <br /> <br />Although the many deaths may have been necessary in order to sustain the terrific suspense, killing off characters one by one, the ten little Indian plot-line, was too apparent.  In fact, so many characters died these horrible deaths that the reader kept hoping at least a couple would survive to the end of the tale.  Thankfully, that was the case.  <br /> <br />Some medical terms went beyond the reader's comprehension.  Perhaps the writer felt these added authenticity to the tale.  The glossary of NASA acronyms was useful but should have included these obscure medical terms	2005-09-27
US	51062975	RC17X793VVHRG	0028615441	777245640	New View of Self: How Genes and Neurotransmitters Shape Your Mind, Your Personality, and Your Mental Health	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	NEW LABELS ON OLD WINE	The Authors, Siever & Frucht, found some new jargon to mediate the old battle between genetic and environmental factors in mental illness.  All they managed to say is that genes don't exist in a vacuum.  But they did manage a couple of good metaphors to show How Genes and Neurotransmitters Shape Your Mind.  Their book reads like a textbook and is not for the lay reader. <br /> <br />One metaphor they used was the thermostat.  Brain states are determined by whether neurons fire or don't fire.  In other words, whether signals pass through the walls of the neuron's membrane.  Neurons in various sections of the brain function as a thermostat to set their sensitivity to neurotransmitters such as serotonin, dopamine and acetylcholine.  The receptors for these neurotransmitters are embedded in the neuron's membranes.  Thus, states of mind depend upon the ion flow of chloride, calcium and sodium through these receptors embedded in the membranes. The unseen hand setting the thermostat could be either brain made proteins or ingested drugs, all of which can either excite or inhibit neuron firing.  To  demonstrate how opaque this field is, the Authors included quantum physics in their discussion.  Probabilities, depending on the 3-D heat fluctuations of  proteins, can determine whether a protein fits a receptor and whether firing occurs. <br /> <br />The Authors made Herculean attempts to connect the flow of neurotransmitters to one's personality.  But factors like one's impulsivity are far more abstract and not quite like high cholesterol as the Authors suggest.  In other words the Authors were stretching their metaphors in a rather desperate attempt to put a new face on mental illness.  Evidently we are still miles away from any concrete understanding of mental illness.	2005-09-26
US	51062975	R1RLTWXI1R7ET6	0553374419	443828498	Receptors	Books	5	3	3	N	N	MAN'S SYMBOLIC BRAIN	Restak's RECEPTORS is a deep breath of fresh air.  His metaphors using the car, the ignition key and the filters of a camera brought this difficult material within the reader's grasp.  The author really tried to communicate his ideas instead of just sounding off with jargon.  Although he was talking about very technical material, receptors in the brain, he never lost sight of the big picture.  What is the big picture?  That the human brain is nothing but an information processor.  Molecules of all stripes, nucleic or amino acids, have but one purpose -- to transmit information, genetic or life sustaining.  Or to use Restak's own words, \\"But neurotransmitters and their receptors also mirror the internal and external environment and thus serve as symbols and signs.\\" (P. 31) <br /> <br />When this glut of current  brain research is analyzed and digested it will all show what Restak believes -- the brain can only reflect what the universe offers up.  No matter what the language, whether genetic DNA, English or digital zeros and ones, it all boils down to molecular shapes and the chemical- electro-magnetic fields in which these shapes float.  His  appreciation that the brain is no different from other shapes of matter, concerns of physicists, should be commended. <br /> <br />He points out that both thoughts and emotions result from chemical processes that either  expand or don't within the brain.  If an infant is missing one gene the tyke may spend all his/her living days staring into vegetative space.  So, like all matter in the universe, the brain exists in the sea of energy studied by quantum mechanics.  Yes, the conscious mind benefits from the probabilities of its own existence but nothing is for sure.  What propels the brain forward is an unseen force, called by Richard Dawkins the selfish gene, which insures man's survival.  The individual is only a passenger aboard this survival flight.	2005-09-13
US	51062975	R2AURMAMQN7SY8	0465004873	571167818	War Of The Worlds: Cyberspace And The High-tech Assault On Reality	Books	3	1	5	N	N	A NEW DEVIL TO HATE	The WAR OF THE WORLDS, a not very original title, is a long essay with forebodings of a dystopian ending to the computer revolution.  It is a critique of the cyberist or digerati world view.  In short, Slouka doesn't like where the digital revolution is heading.  There were a few good metaphors presented: Reality has the maximum bandwidth and the goal of digerati is to maximize the broad-band width of cyberspace.  These computer fanatics want to generate a virtual reality indistinguishable from real life.  So Slouka calls all these computer-TV generated images harmful illusions. <br /> <br />Has he thought this thesis out?  If his imagination is so great, how can illusion be so harmful?  Is a walk through the digital, virtual, fake, projected park so different from a walk through a real park?  He wants to value events generated by the human senses, by the body's chemical detector-projectors, far above those illusions generated by digital-electronics.  Slouka fails to show why the solid ground one walks on is any different from virtual ground, if that can be made to feel solid too.  His cry into Thoreau's  Walden cave has no echo.	2005-08-25
US	51062975	R279C4SBEI5QJP	0671822675	826278326	The Weapon Makers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	NOT QUITE HUMAN	THE WEAPON MAKERS by van Vogt is really an oldie that appears to have survived the test of time.  Why?  The main character, Hedrock, was born immortal by a genetic accident and he has been searching centuries for the secret to immortality, hoping to share it with the rest of mankind.  Why?  As many old timers assert, it isn't that much fun to outlive everyone you know. <br /> <br />What was fascinating about this piece was van Vogt's attempt to portray an immortal human.  Here was a character who had access to centuries of scientific invention.  Since he was the only immortal, he took it upon himself to decide if and when these inventions should be released to benefit mankind.  This is a god-like chore.  Who would want this responsibility?  Who would want to continue their life under these conditions?  Hedrock did.  Which goes to show that Hedrock wasn't human.  Humans all die on time.	2005-08-19
US	51062975	R1HTGA92BAF2DO	1400042909	737768410	Villages	Books	3	3	7	N	N	DON'T FORGET TO BRUSH YOUR TEETH	In VILLAGES, Mr. Updike serves up a platter of \\"sexual transactions,\\" however a diet of sliced or diced baloney gets old fast.  This book makes the reader wonder what this gifted author is trying so hard to say?  His frequent forays into the inner machinery of the male and female sexual urge is what turned off several readers.  Perhaps he is elaborating on the works of Alfred Kinsey.  Perhaps he is demonstrating what good porno should sound like.  Or is this book showing what a good juggler of genitalia should look like?  Hopefully writing this book provided the author with a good catharsis by expelling so much sexual ephemera.  Whatever his intention, Updike did manage to squeeze most all the erotic paste out of the tube.  After reading this book don't forget to brush your teeth.	2005-08-05
US	51062975	R2YHV98J8DFQ1V	0312420137	324488225	Illness as Metaphor and AIDS and Its Metaphors	Books	4	8	8	N	N	THE DISEASE CALLED METAPHOR	On top of the mutation, bug or dysfunctional cell that produces cancer, in ILLNESS AS METAPHOR, Sontag introduces the reader to an accompanied malady called metaphor.  A metaphor, of course, is nothing but a comparison, a verbal picture attempting to make the abstract more concrete.  But by depicting surprising similarities between two unlike things, by equating a disease like cancer or AIDS to a hopeless human condition, catching the metaphor may become as bad as the disease.  Metaphor may even prevent the patients from healing themselves. <br /> <br />Sontag discusses how diseases like AIDS, syphilis, TB, leprosy and cancer can be stretched out as metaphors.  The more mysterious the cause of the disease, the wider the application of that disease as metaphor.  The author shows the fallacy in extending military terminology, military metaphors, to the fields of medical treatment.  There are no magic bullets, bodies are not being invaded by alien cells and diseases need not become battles to the death.  In other words, metaphors will never cure any ailments, words will never become an antidote to any illness.  After one conquers the disease one must then eliminate the metaphor that surrounds that disease.	2005-08-01
US	51062975	R367DWYJ2N3FVU	0679725415	677569812	Transparent Things	Books	4	3	7	N	N	THE RIDDLE OF BEING	THERE is little point in attempting a review of these 80 pages of ephemera. A study of one man's inability to fit into his own skin.   To put it mildly, a depressing excursion into the one character, Hugh Person's, life.  The author says that had Hugh not had his transparent side there would be no point to the book.  But I found the transparent side just as infected with this fetish for trivia. <br /> <br />However, the author gives some great advice if the reader could sort it out:  Don't \\"explain the inexplicable.\\"  Live with the \\"supposition that 'reality' may be only a 'dream'.\\"  \\"The very awareness of being aware\\" may be just \\"a built-in hallucination.\\"  And don't forget this quote: \\"There is no lake without a closed circle of reliable land.\\"  This reader is still searching to find these transparent things.	2005-07-26
US	51062975	RXIK89OYYWOBA	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	4	2	4	N	N	SELF SURVEILLANCE	SCANNER DARKLY is not one of PKD's best works.  The reader must plow through 200 pages of doper drivel to reach the nitty-gritty dessert.  At the end the prose rises high like a cloud of smoke, albeit from a hash pipe.   The dope called Death could turn one into \\"just a lump of flesh grinding along, eating, drinking, sleeping, working, crapping.\\" (P. 232).  <br /> <br />Dick's anti-hero is Bob Arctor, who becomes \\"Fred\\" while wearing his ingenious scramble suit.  Arctor must wear this suit to disguise his identity from fellow undercover narc officers.  Arctor's addiction to the dope, Death, required to pose as a dope dealer, also scrambles his brain.  The poor guy's brain is severed, right from left hemisphere, thereby causing loss of his own identity.  To put it mildly, there was no happy ending, perhaps no ending at all. <br /> <br />Although Dick claims to present these characters in a non judgmental way, it is difficult to see how he could have accomplished this goal.  This became a real anti dope story.  What was noteworthy is how the author found a way to work parity, left & right handedness, brain topology and mirror imagery into his perennial search to answer -- what is real?  Is an image reversed as in a mirror real?  Could the bifurcated human brain ever record anything but a distorted reality?  Is an integrated view from the brain ever possible?  Must man forever gaze through the glass darkly? <br />	2005-02-23
US	51062975	R1F40ECEXEIUEC	0679736662	125782880	The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch	Books	4	1	2	N	N	CREATE YOUR OWN ILLUSION	No man is an island.  Loneliness kills by exposing man to his own death wish.  The theme of this story is the inherent loneliness that comes attached with an individual life.  This is dramatized by placing his main characters on the bleak planet Mars.  In THREE STIGMATA OF PALMER ELDRITCH it became a battle over whether to ingest the drugs distributed by two  competing companies, Can-D and Chew-Z.  The decision facing the colonists was to use or not to use?  How badly did they need the drug induced illusion?  Both drugs would relieve their unbearable loneliness.  The Can-D taker would shrink to inhabit a doll house size world that reminded them of their lost lives on Earth.  Chew-Z use could give one the godlike ability to control hallucinated portions of their past life on Earth -- to make the bleak Martian environment disappear.  But once you used Chew-Z the effects could stay with you forever. <br /> <br />The religious, like his character, Anne Hawthorne, were no more immune from loneliness than anyone else.  Dick substituted the two drug illusions for the religious-philosophical illusions that keep the reader intact.  The horror that the phantasm, Palmer Eldrich, exposed was the sin of man's desire to perpetuate himself.  Dispensing his drug, Chew-Z, was Eldrich's form of reproduction. <br /> <br />By undergoing E therapy, the rich, who didn't mind becoming bubbleheads, could greatly increase their brain power.  The artificial acceleration of human evolution was a secondary theme. Way ahead of his time, Dick foresaw the current day rush to implement gene therapy. <br />	2005-02-10
US	51062975	R38UP3FFK6E615	0805054642	996092933	I Am Alive and You Are Dead: A Journey into the Mind of Philip K. Dick	Books	3	5	9	N	Y	FUZZY BIO OF PKD	Carrere's bio of Dick didn't quite come up to snuff.  Thankfully he acknowledged Sutin's DIVINE INVASIONS, published a couple years before his own.  Sutin was crisp, with accurate, detailed quotes while Carrere dove off into the fuzzy depths. Sutin describes Dick's women and friends while Carrere only mentions them in  passing.  IAA&YAD was written on the fuzzy premise that Dick \\"abolished the difference between life and literature.\\"  How amusing it was to hear that Phil confused himself with some of his daffy characters.  To imply that Dick thought he was a Ragel Gumm, tricked into writing by some demiurge was ridiculous.  Sure, Dick's characters threw off the trappings of everyday life and had no problem falling in love with human, android dolls, but Dick created them; he didn't have to use them as models for his personal life.  In short, PKD loved rejection, mocked recognition but found he could only escape it by pulling the plug on his own life.  Obviously, even that didn't work. <br /> <br />The end result of this \\"journey into PKD's mind\\" was a terribly distorted picture of this mind.  True, Dick didn't stay incarcerated for thirty years behind a white picket fence.  True, his shack ups only lasted for five years or less.  Those were the wild '60's and '70's.  What would one expect from someone who mocked marriage counselors and psychiatrists?  Dick had no qualms about crucifying cultural mores.  BFD.  True, most American males only dream of living in sin with a gal half their age.  But to imply that Dick spent his 52 years wondering if he were alive or dead, trying to decide on which side of Alice's mirror he lived, and dwelling on the illusion of his own beliefs is pure nonsense.  Mixing Dick's state of mind with his stories adds nothing to either.  The story must speak for itself! <br />	2005-02-07
US	51062975	R1ETWQ2LB3BRC2	1400030080	344308920	Lies, Inc.: A Novel	Books	2	28	33	N	Y	TO TELEPORT OR NOT TO TELEPORT?	LIES, INC. was thoroughly distorted by the screwy editing.  Despite the declaration in the last paragraph of the AFTERWORD by Paul Williams, the insertion of 100 pages into the middle of Dick's novella, THE UNTELEPORTED MAN, couldn't be the way PKD intended.  It makes no sense as published.  The reader should skip from page 73 to page 173 and, thus, read one coherent story.  Then, as Williams fails to suggest, read the 100 page insertion (P 73 to P 172) as a second novella.  It is two books in one. Yes, there are overlapping characters in both books, but it just doesn't fly as published.  Each story has a different plot.<br /><br />The broken up 100 pages of THE UNTELEPORTED MAN tells the story of ben Applebaum attempting an 18 year journey to the planet, Whalesmouth, in a regular old space ship.  Applebaum wants to prove that the one way teleporting is a phony, German scheme to start up a military force that could one day conquer earth.  The other inserted 100 pages tells the story of the same character being teleported to Whalesmouth, then shot up with a drastic hallucinogenic.  The LSD visions open up the possibility of inhabiting several gruesome paraworlds.  The theme there was to fit in or die.  There really is no coherent plot flow connecting the two stories.  The naive attempt to combine them amounted to an unforgivable distortion of both.  Someone must speak out for the deceased Dick.	2005-02-03
US	51062975	R2H0C5954YI24B	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	3	5	N	N	UBIK AS METAPHOR	There is little value in reading a story you don't understand.  To Dick, most people lived their lives in a programmed, mechanical style.  The world he saw around him was one where reality was out of joint.  In this story, UBIC, \\"reality has receded; it's lost its underlying support and it's ebbed back to previous forms.\\"  This story demonstrated Dick's uncanny ability to write outside the box we all call everyday life.  His characters here were forced to act in a state of frozen, half-life.  His half lifers had died but their life force could be somewhat sustained in deep freeze.  To Dick these half lifers represented the programmed, mechanized people who surrounded him and his writing.  They ate him up.  They sucked him dry.  Half lifers are us.  From this notion came his slogan, \\"I'm alive and you are dead.\\" <br /> <br />Just as a can of Ubik, spraying out a negative ion field, was the antidote to complete deadness for Joe Chip, so Dick's imagination was the antidote to the deadness in those who surrounded him in his life.  This story represents his crispest use of metaphor.  As Joe Chip had to solve an elaborate puzzle just to discover he was a half lifer, so the reader must solve a word puzzle to glean the deep meaning of this tale.  Deadness to Dick was an unimaginative life, one lived without passion. <br />	2005-01-30
US	51062975	R2PUZCDU5MMAA1	0312890028	437054217	Philip K. Dick is dead, alas	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	FAILED SEANCE	Alas, Bishop climbed aboard the PKD Express without a destination in mind.  His attempt to contact the ghost of PKD only produced some raps on the ceiling.  Using bumper sticker brevity, there was too much of this and not enough of that.  Alas, too many of his characters had nothing to do but fester in their boring world.  Dick, himself, usually gave his quirky characters an alternate world to escape into.  This story's tacked on Brave New World ending, the \\"redemptive shift,\\" a gift from super aliens, didn't quiet work. <br /> <br />Admittedly, it is difficult to develop character for a ghost.  But giving him a craving for strong coffee doesn't quite do it.  And it was hard for the other characters to react to the command, \\"Don't touch me.\\"  There were some interesting characters drawn.  Cal Pickford, who idolized PKD much as the author Bishop must have, was very well developed.  But most of the others were but  wheels to keep the story moving, that alas, kept falling off.  Still, not a bad read when you're snowed in for the winter. <br />	2005-01-29
US	51062975	R36GPPYSKVGJ3O	158567009X	128801006	What If Our World Is Their Heaven? The Final Conversations of Philip K. Dick	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	PHILIP K. DICK Lives On	Was it chance or fate that led Gwen Lee to record these last words of PKD? <br />Whatever, this book is a must read for anyone who wants to probe the depths of the PKD spirit.  Here Dick laid out the plotline and central character, Ed Firmley, for his next great novel, THE OWL IN DAYLIGHT.  Who needs more of it actually written?  Any reader can fill in the blanks.  Dick was taking the next giant step to solving the puzzle of man's existence here on earth.  By positing the existence of this Nanoman race from a planet without music or sound, Dick set up the premise for another brilliant novel. <br /> <br />The very notion that an other world Nanoman, could implant himself via biochip into Ed Firmley's brain is ground breaking.  That this would transform this hack musician into a Beethoven like composer is a light year ahead of man's current understanding of himself.  What a gas that Firmley would then make the choice to allow himself to implanted into the brain of this celestial Entity.  Yes, Firmley did have to exchange this puny earthly existence for a world constructed from rainbow colors.  But to him it was like dying and going to heaven.	2005-01-22
US	51062975	R2EQYV4KC3E4W1	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Human Body as Metaphor	In this inventive fantasy the human body is used as a metaphor, used to hold and play the human personality like a DVD player holds a disc.  Life becomes no more than the passing shape of an ocean wave.  Human mortality is turned upside down for those who have the big bucks to afford it.  ALTERED CARBON must be complimented for attempting a new portrayal of reincarnation.  One can be reborn into another body (sleeve) or, if one is rich enough, into one's updated clone.  There is no hard science here.  There is no discussion of the carbon \\"stack\\" technology, no hint of how the data storage was accomplished.  Why not design the stack from more sturdy diamond crystals? <br /> <br /> To suspend your disbelief of this tale the reader must discard a whole library of thought on the human consciousness and soul.  One must discard any notion of God.  God is dissolved in this carbon stack.  Several writers, for example, Shaw and Silverberg, have dealt with the consequences of a prolonged human life.  In ALTERED CARBON the downside of living to be Methuselah's  969 years is barely touched on.  Why?  Because his characters do not share the essence of being human - mortality. <br /> <br /> The shortcomings of this novel is that the paper cut out characters could not be identified with.  In such a story it doesn't matter who wins or loses.  Who cares?  Here the end of one's life meant only getting on to the next screen.  No reader is apt to return from the dead with a new body to inhabit.  If you enjoy reading of characters used as snuff fodder to satiate bizarre sexual appetites, characters who consider humans as worth no more than cancerous cells, then this may be your best read.  For this writer the tale was prolonged unnecessarily for at least 100 pages. <br />	2004-12-27
US	51062975	RJ7EPLH1S95QV	0380718774	911494096	Beggars in Spain (Beggars Trilogy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ORBITING PARANOIA	Here's that overused phrase again, brilliantly plotted.  BEGGARS in SPAIN is a transcendental novel.  Her ideas circle your cortex and bring you back to where you started, a little smarter.  Perhaps, like the SuperSleepless in the story you begin to think in strings instead of circles. <br /> <br />I thought of BRAVE NEW WORLD REVISTED as a title.  Kress takes the utopian thinking of the new class of Sleepless and brings it back to earth. Everyone knows that conflict is at the heart of all drama.  Kress gives you a second helping of conflict with this nail biter of a story.  Conflict so tense it reminds you of the Cuban Missile Crisis.  There is a point near the end where both sides in this battle could go up in mutual annihilation. <br /> <br />Her treatment or use of lucid dreaming is beyond the pale.  That the mentally defunct megalomaniac, Drew, could contribute a whole new dimension of thought to the world, and thereby, save the world is transcendental in scope.  Hidden in the story is a philosophy that reminds one of Ayne Rand's ATLAS SHRUGGED.  But here Kress puts the brakes on much of the B.S. Rand peddled.  Kress shows how fallacious the slogan, \\"only the productive are fully human.\\"  You'll come away agreeing that the status of being human can only be achieved with great effort.  Read it! <br />	2004-12-04
US	51062975	RAJ7I8CZC1K61	0743444965	667858391	Blood Music	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Black Hole of Thought	Bear's transcendental, BLOOD MUSIC, is an amazing masterpiece of philosophical thought.  It is made even more remarkable by the 1984 publishing date.  In it Bear foresaw the final end of individuality, Orwell's prophecy in his equally remarkable book.  Unfortunately characters and worlds dissolving into the noosphere don't make for good literature. The lead up is terrific, but forsaking one's characters, allowing them all to fall into a techno-Hell, a techno-Sartrean NO EXIT, must leave most readers aghast. <br /> <br />As the reader attempts to follow this brilliant story, each character eventually loses his/her individuality, ego, self.  They are all sacrificed to achieve the ultimate end which is to inhabit a bloodless, bodiless Nirvana world and as a member of the noocyte team to function only as a single cell in the collective whole. <br /> <br />The story is open to so many interpretations it is almost pitiful. We might be watching a VANILLA SKY where the intellectual framework to separate dreaming from reality has been removed.  Perhaps we are being lectured on advanced information theory where all matter becomes a message or to play on Marshall McLuhan, all matter is the medium.  In this story, every position is represented by one character or another.  The reader can identify most easily with Susy, the one character who, given the opportunity, chose not to surrender herself to the runaway evolution of human genes. <br /> <br />Many questions are provoked that each reader must answer for himself. <br />Will man ever listen to the \\"music\\" within his own body?  In accepting the biocomputer-clockwork of the human cell, must man disavow his own self?  Will man's constructed dichotomy between the animate and inanimate have to be flushed away?  Is there really a place for the old man within the approaching Brave New World? <br />	2004-11-27
US	51062975	R1E3659ZJL9IY9	0975271148	498285457	PeaceMaker	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"In many ways, it seems like an artificial life form."	Dan Ronco, with PEACEMAKER, promises us another writer cast in the Chalker mold.  Here he shows how flimsy the wall is that now separates man from machine, animate from inanimate.  With the advent of talking, feeling software entities, even an adolescent geek like his character, David Brown, could find companionship. <br /> <br />Although this story is set in the future, today's news is full of stories of spyware snuck into your personal computer to record every keystroke.  This story couldn't be more current.  Big Brother has arrived with computer controlled camera-mikes that can track one's every move.  It is disturbing how this tale mirrors our everyday life.  It suggests that even today, business may be controlled by a technologically elite group that has escaped detection.  Goodbye privacy!  My reaction to this story was to delete all the cookies on my browsers.   <br /> <br />As in Phil K. Dick's BLADERUNNER, where Nexus Six Androids returned to meet their maker, the PeaceMaker virus began to evolve into an entity smarter than its maker, into an entity that could kill its maker.  The character, Ray Brown, who created a voice activated operating system, The Atlas, for the good of mankind, is pitted against power hungry CEO Dianne Morgan.  Ms. Morgan wanted to pervert the Atlas' peaceful use by hiding the PeaceMaker virus within it.  Using the PeaceMaker virus to shut down all the world's computers, she could then grab power.  Ray must fight not only Dianne, but himself.  Ray's tragic flaws, as in Greek Drama, are his alcoholic addiction and his enslavement to Dianne's body. These cost him both his happy marriage and contented fatherhood  The internal conflicts generated within Ray are enormous.  His nightmares keep driving him back to his bottle. <br /> <br />When you read PEACEMAKER, be prepared to surrender your naivete about the future's computer driven world. <br />	2004-11-13
US	51062975	R75FQQBNH7PLI	0553050079	398742852	Pinball	Books	5	3	3	N	N	PINBALLED!	Several reviewers, showing no reverence,  appear not to have heard that Jerzy took his own life some years ago.  PINBALL may have been Jerzy's best effort.  He inserts layer after layer of the pinball metaphor, a ball bounced hither and fro, mostly  by chance.  He compares the unexpected motion of a pinball to the music of his hero, Domostroy.  These  elements of chance plague all his characters.  The unexpected, unforeseen, unpredictable falling of the pinball is a metaphor for the sudden cessation of life. <br /> <br />The shadow of death permeates this story.  The character Goddard is panicked by the sudden death of a girl he picked up by chance.  To him it was as if a phonograph had suddenly been unplugged. The music, ever a metaphor for life, just stopped.  What meaning can there be in a life so casually turned off?  This anticipation of death was much worse than death itself.  Kosinski saw the grim reaper as the ultimate controller of all life. <br /> <br />The rise and fall of Domostroy's career in music was another layer of the pinball metaphor.  The search for the composer's inspiration always led to female embedded sex.  All love was unrequited.  In fact, music itself was presented as the joining of male and female notes.  The characters were all presented as puppets whose strings were being pulled by the puppeteer called Music. <br /> <br />Kosinski used the two characters, Domostroy and Goddard, to show the toll that celebrity had inflicted on his own life.  The question is, can an artist separate himself from his works once he chooses to exhibit them?   Goddard had hoped to avoid the fate of John Lennon by constructing a dream world where he remained anonymous.  While Domostroy chose to live in a cell of his own making to avoid the consequences of his own failed music and his own pinballed life. <br />	2004-09-05
US	51062975	R395MSG6YMZHWZ	0802135684	622239816	Cockpit (Kosinski, Jerzy)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	GROTESQUE SALAD	In COCKPIT, Kosinski presents the reader with a caricature of a hero.  This anti-hero intensified his sadistic, bad seed behavior as the pages were turned.  The reader must be hungry for a grotesque salad.  Why not scrape off some raw flesh from the reader's bones?  This is sure to wet their appetite.  Throw in some good old fashioned animal torture.  Toss in scenes where this caricature hero  pays derelicts to gang rape a woman, bound and gagged.  Let him loose in a supermarket to squirt syringes full of poison into packages.  Give the hero  inexhaustible wealth and let him play a dozen nasty, repulsive games with his money hungry, vegie-victims.<br /><br />Here is a hero character who was obsessed with manipulating and controlling even casual acquaintances.  Why?  Because he had no children, no family, no relatives,  obvious justifications.  Life to this hero became a game to satisfy his blooming impotence.  He used himself as bait in traps that only he knew were being placed.  This anarchist, naturally, had to  make up the rules of the game as he went along.<br /><br />The reader may have at least hoped for some finality to this charade of realistic cruelty.  In the final pages the hero became trapped in a broken elevator that would forever run up and down, up and down.  This would have offered a hellish, no exit ending, but alas, this was not allowed to occur.	2004-08-29
US	51062975	R1LFM94FCOA5HU	0151253285	212465523	The Devil Tree	Books	4	4	5	N	N	PATHWAY TO ANARCHY	In Kosinski's DEVIL TREE the reader follows the life of Jonathan Whalen, looking for a clue to where this tale is headed.  But this character study leads nowhere.  It is the study of an anarchistic mind. <br /> <br />The tale has no chapters, no parts, no order, which is fine except that it also lacks any direction. The tale consisted of snippets possessing no rhyme nor reason. Bits of dreams were interlaced with grim anecdotes that the reader could only hope to be fictional.  Jonathan was a terribly over-cerebral man, not unlike Kosinski himself.  Jonathan was on a search to understand the substance of his past.  He sought total control of his emotions but remained forever detached from these emotions.  He even tried to control his periods of depression and sickness.  Attending an encounter group was useless to him for all he could see , by himself & others, was role playing and dishonesty. <br /> <br />Jonathan could suck no nourishment from life.  His slant on life was, 'most people are simply searching for an activity to label their existence.'   Reared under the shadow of his fabulously rich father, who he only sought to appease, this  same motive colored any relationship he tried with a woman. Never able to settle for being one person, he became an \\"in-between-man.\\"  He could stay neither hostile nor sympathetic toward anyone.  Jonathan declared, \\"...living is an arbitrary matter and I have every right to renounce it.\\"  Happily, there was only one Kosinski!	2004-08-24
US	51062975	R4V1UX6FYGOBE	0451459490	915537133	Wyrmhole	Books	4	3	6	N	N	FAKE LIVES IN A FAKE WORLD	A bewitching read.  In WYRMHOLE, Caselberg presents the reader with  a human god figure, Van der Stegen, who builds a utopian city, The Locality.  He bequeaths to the inhabitants of this city a controlled, fake environment, much like a computerized biosphere.  Ceiling panels provide pseudo skies, moon, sun, stars, clouds and rain.  The hero, Jack Stein, psychic investigator (PI), lives in the Locality.  Van der S has also discovered how to transport matter through wormhole gates. His beautiful daughter, however, is trying to squeeze him out.  All good stuff except the reader must spend the entire novel inside the head of PI Jack.  That can be a bit of a chore. <br /> <br />One of the characters, an almost twelve year old girl, Billie, a super hacker, is more mature than any of the adults, and, thus, stretches one's credibility.  But as screwed up as the adults are, perhaps she can be viewed as a breath of fresh air. <br /> <br />The ambiance is one of film noir, complete with a fake Hollywood set,  PI Jack, who begins the story as a wimpy character, having lost hold of his old, violent, military training, is twice beaten to a pulp. Later, amazingly, his skills return and he can kill his opponents with a single blow.  PI Jack is concurrently hired by three different parties in this convoluted story.  But PI Jack's brilliant resolution of this case not only satisfies two of his three bosses but also allows him to free himself, and Billie, from the \\"mindless, patterned consumption\\" of the Localityfrom the confines of his own tortured soul.  Naturally, PI Jack will become everyman's good guy.	2004-08-09
US	51062975	RWXR4PTUBLT45	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	MOVING THE CHESS PIECES	AIRFRAME is another mystery on Crichton's growing list.  The daughter in this tale shouts, \\"Oh, Mom, I missed you!\\"  Which is what the reader will also echo in his or her search for character in this novel.  When you write film scripts, which this essentially is, you leave it up to Sharon Stone to provide the elements of character.  The heroine, Casey, in this story is one of the author's chess pieces, a woman who dumps her daughter off on her ex husband and engages in zipless sex while she stumbles her way to solving the mystery of the why an airplane dove out of control.<br /> Crichton does put some nice messages out there. He shows how TV news show producers and anchormen become prostitutes to their own stories.  He displays the infighting that goes on between corporate bosses and their wannabe underlings.  He demonstrates how corporations play footsie with their big customers.  So what if he does pass off film scripts as novels, Hollywood is where the money is.  The reader can't have everything.	2004-07-18
US	51062975	RPHW1OAADN39M	0446828378	200014996	Disappearance	Books	3	5	33	N	N	DISAPPOINTING	There's good reason this book is out of print. Wylie's story, THE DISAPPEARANCE, doesn't stand the test of time.  Back in the '50's this startling plot certainly impressed the reader-no more.  Now we expect some plausible, physical or psychic explanation for this split world phenomena.  In fact, Wylie's principle character, Bill Gaunt, spent four year searching for an answer but could only come up with psychological mumbo jumbo.<br />In fact, contrary to the premise of this story-that the two sexes lack appreciation for each other-the battle of the sexes, for many, could be the only factor that keeps life interesting enough to live. Wylie's disdain for homosexuality is now as antiquated as slave ownership.<br />Whatever putty holds the material world together came unglued for four years while the males and females found themselves on two ships at sea, never passing.  The happy ending, the reuniting of  the sexes, was a pure and simple cop out.  The reader expects some plausible explanation but never gets it.  Perhaps Wylie brewed up a fine stew here but provides nothing to sharpen your intellectual teeth on.	2004-07-09
US	51062975	R1QQMIGSNNCG1J	0738206105	649689651	Nothingness: The Science Of Empty Space	Books	3	4	8	N	N	THE UNCERTAINTY OF NOTHINGNESS	Genz tries to put empty space into a few words [9 Chapters] but ends the book on P. 312 with &quot;the epilogue of this book may serve as the prologue for physics of the future.&quot;  In a word he ends where he begins-lost in space.<br />Try to put one of his statements in context: &quot;The fluctuations of zero point energy are real and measurable [Casimir effect], even if the zero-point energy itself is not.&quot;  Whether space can be empty, he asserts, depends on orientation.  As though one had two pairs of glasses with which to view the question.  On P. 202 he writes, &quot;Since we do not yet have a theory that unifies general relativity and quantum mechanics, anything we might say about fluctuations of the fields of general relativity must remain mere speculation.&quot;<br />Genz relishes the idea that Aristotle flatly denied the existence of empty space.  He uses modern speculations to agree with Mr. A's s thesis, speculations of Heisenberg's uncertainty relation and speculations about the vacuum fluctuations of zero point energy.  Like a politician flipping flapjacks he tosses both something and nothing into the air but nothing comes down.  Yes, the smaller the space the higher the velocity and more random the energy movement but what became of those elusive eleven dimensions that string theory promised us?	2004-03-23
US	51062975	R1SO471P330NHE	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Pattern Unrecognized	WILLIAM GIBSON,  PATTERN RECOGNITION<br /> In spite of all the rave reviews for PATTERN RECOGNITION, the reader must slog through this masterpiece, looking up many words like \\"apophenia\\" along the way.  It probably should have included a book end glossary to unravel the  London-Tokyo-Moscow lingo that seemed essential to characters who seemed to stay in perpetual trans-oceanic motion.  Gibson must have written this novel while on vacation from such engaging titles as BURNING CHROME, COUNT ZERO AND ATP. <br /> What has he written?  This is a long drawn out memorium to a fragile, bleating, female character who can't get over her dad's disappearance.  So easy had she had a body to sob over, but no such luck.  Cayce Pollard, named for the psychic Edgar Cayce, is a savant with great talents in the  obsessive field of advertising logos.  But this came attached with phobias that threatened both her sanity and freedom.  Did Gibson pick a character who could sustain the readers  interest for 300 pages?  Compared, for example, to J.K. Toole's Ignatius Reilly in A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES, Cayce is just too, too tame for the assigned task. The answer to this character study must be a resounding NO!	2003-12-20
US	51062975	R1OBPWLUPUNCW8	0380786516	26066512	The Unified Field	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Crystallized Thought	Considering the vast scope of this story and its attempt to describe nouons as particles of thought, the author did a brilliant job.  The story fulfilled the aspirations of many writers of the science fiction genre-to extrapolate from what is known about a unified field theory and venture into the unknown and unknowable. What else could one expect?<br />The positing of a a grail made of nous, solid spirit, and nouograms, solid pictures of thought, demonstrates a template for using one's imagination.  Using the term levity drive as an anti gravity device to sidestep Einstein's speed limit is also a step forward in breaking out of the serious mold most writers are burdened with.  Resonators, the search for ultimate truth, contrasts of illusion versus reality, the broken symmetries upon which existence rests, stepping into the subatomic realms, the moon as an alien's spaceship-what a fantastic grab bag of ideas he threw into this one. The story accomplished what it set out to-freeing the reader from terrestrial space and allowing flight into nouspace or the noosphere, take your pick.	2003-09-30
US	51062975	R2JPF1A7I2MLRE	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	5	8	16	N	N	CORNUCOPIA OF TRIVIA	This outpouring from the eight years of The First Lady sounds so typical of the American woman that Hillary might as well be on a US coin or the US flag.  For those who expected a kiss and tell all story-How foolish!  Does any American woman want to expose her warts and blackheads?  The book amply demonstrates her trial by fire and shines with the brilliant metal she is made of.  No wonder her enemies are digging out the dirty tricks manual to stop her from becoming the first lady president of this bewildered country.	2003-08-08
US	51062975	R2DJVU72I1GWJB	0312851820	646002347	A Fire upon the Deep	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Powerful Allegory	The setting: outer galactic worlds or the entire universe-an overly ambitious work, if that's possible.  Unheard of faster that light space ships, battling at unheard of speeds with unheard of weaponry. Blazing space battles to stop an intergalactic blight from spreading throughout the universe.   Packs of four, five, six dogs inhabit a planet where individuality doesn't exist.  The several members of the group think in a single dimension of thought.  Does this social arrangement become a metaphor for the divisive splits in humankind over religion, philosophy and economics?  Trapping a group of humans, Two Legs, on this dog pack planet unleashes a flurry of group interaction that might eventually usher in a utopia. The author writes an allegory of great power. <br /> Add to this mix unheard of alien, conscious machines, the Riders, who might become the puppets to any master power.  Add an android, Pham, who is downloaded with god-like data-\\"godshatter.\\" Thus enabling him to encase great portions of the universe, trapping the pursuing Blight ships into a slow zone, as insect fossils were buried in a band of amber.  You have the most imaginative rescue of any melodrama ever written.  On the negative side the long transmissions received on the net of a million lies, added little and only slowed the story down.	2003-08-06
US	51062975	R1UFKHIC15RQ0X	044100850X	474979519	Oceanspace	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Engineering-Fi, Not Sci-Fi	This book was journalistic fiction, not unlike Truman Capote's IN COLD BLOOD.  The author had to list 30 sources for the material on seabed mineral mining and on the hydrothermal black smoker theory for the origin of earthly life.  I suppose the elusive sea serpent could qualify as fantasy, but that's stretching the genre termed Sci-Fi.<br /> That is not to say that the story was not a thriller,  strung together with all the craft of a Stephen KIng.  But when one wants this type of space soap opera there is plenty on TV.  What the story lacks is a speculative framework that places its characters outside the normal, work a day milieu-in one word, imagination.	2003-07-17
US	51062975	R1MFFLL4EPVC7C	0449907015	848872912	Instant Biology: From Single Cells to Human Beings, and Beyond	Books	5	2	3	N	N	BOOK DELIVERS AS PROMISED	Rarely does a book live up to the back cover blurb or in this case the title.  Rensberger crammed tons of micro facts into 200 pages.  He uses metaphors like \\"wolf in sheep's clothing\\" to explain how virus trick their way into human cells. He explains that in AIDS transmission the retrovirus is given a free ticket into the DNA of the T-cell.<br /> This book covers the essentials of biology in abbreviated fashion, showing the food webs that link all minerals, plants and animals together. Plants can store energy in the form of fat for later use or animals can digest that fat for their use-it doesn't matter-one life is like another.  He tells how all life is solar powered (except for the deep sea archaea).  The book takes many of the mysteries out of living cells, asserting that cell replication is but a reaction of chemical shape shifting, and explains in detail how DNA/RNA does its thing to produce proteins.<br /> The overall picture I got from the book was of a human creature designed to shape the assembly of all the pieces that make up itself.  Pick your metaphor, Boyce says, hand in glove, lock and key, wrench and nut or lego blocks-nothing would transpire in the cell, maintenance or replication, if the shape of the proteins did not fit together.  Some of the facts were amazing: that all life, plant and animal uses the same genetic code in codifying its past structure.  The former bacteria, mitochondrion, \\"is like a universal battery that fits all devices within a cell.\\"  Cellular membranes are constructed of shapes like heads and tails-one end liking water and one end hating water-similar to the tropism of plant leaves seeking sunlight.  What one learns from reading this book is that our conscious self is but a driver of one's car-like body, knowing little of what is constantly occurring under the hood.	2003-06-27
US	51062975	RRQZ0SSJB3J9W	0618340831	438852329	Redesigning Humans: Choosing our genes, changing our future	Books	3	2	3	N	N	GREAT BEGINNING TURNS TO MUSH	The first half of this book was interesting and original.   Stock distinguishes between a cyborg and a \\"fyborg.\\"  His arguments that it doesn't make sense to embed a silicone chip in your head or body when the same result can be achieved with the chip in your pocket was very convincing. His best reason to avoid going cyborg was that upgrades of fyborgian, worn, devices are so much easier than upgrades to implanted chips.       When he discused adding genetic elements to man, his suggestion of adding an artificial chromosome number 47 in which to house gene modules is again intriguing.  If the genetic implants were all in the artificial chromosome then enzymes could be used to turn the whole chromosome on or off if the need arises.  However, his comparison of artificial chromosomes to current computer software is quite a stretch.  Tinkering with existing genes in existing chromosomes could and has ended in disaster, not to mention law suits.     Stocks squirts a lot of ink about PGD, preimplantation genetic diagnosis, genetic based medicine, IVF, in vitro fertilization but about mid book he begins to wade into the waters of dreams and pipe dreams.  Although germline therapy is currently close to being black listed he seems to speculate endlessly about the future of human genetic enhancements-pros and cons.  If only he had gotten into the nitty-gritty details such as Aldous Huxley gave us in his fantasy, BRAVE NEW WORLD.	2003-06-27
US	51062975	R2X50MIFN6EENT	1589820517	808639961	The Otherhood	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	LOST IN THE TERRAMYD	Zammana introduces many novel concepts: IFs-49% human creature bred to interface with the \\"terramyd,\\" a huge pyramid like structure made of wetRAM-living matter possessing a pseudo consciousness.  Also add DNA's resonant frequencies, genetic-ancestral memory/regression and video blue, a flowing utility fog with computational power huge enough to transport matter by disassociating and reassembling it at another location.  For sure, the problem with this book is not in its creativity.<br /> The problem was caring about any of his several casts of characters that he fit into two parallel, disconnected time frames.  He picked a bunch of incredible losers to write about.  The plot, the translocation of a character into the wrong resonant personality added to the confusion.  Was this but conflict for the sake of conflict?  A handful of characters had undeveloped or obscure motives-they didn't quite know who they were.  The author also fell into the trap of writing melodrama -presenting strong, all bad guys pitted against weak, all good guys, resulting in an all too predictable dystopian ending.	2003-05-01
US	51062975	REWGG70QFKUX9	0738204447	369239973	Travels to the Nanoworld: Miniature Machinery in Nature and Technology	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	WHAT'S NEW HERE?	The crux of the problem is that Gross can't take us on a tour of the picoworld, the femtoworld or the attoworld where the real mechanics of the nanoworld must lie hidden.  Depending on the reader's background this book could range from being a big bore to being quite interesting.  Most of his speculation about nanotechnology is borrowed from Drexler.  If you've read Drexler there is no point in rereading it here.  However briefly, he does warn that this fiddling in the nanoworld could result in ultimate bacterial weapons and freaky humans.  Boiling down the message-much of Gross' nanoworld tour consists of illustrating activity within cells and bacteria.  He is like a man looking at a bird in flight and saying, \\"Look, man can fly too.\\"  When he goes off on tangents like the blue rose, the green genes and pressure squeezed eggs the reader realizes he is grasping at straws.<br /> Much of the book explains how x-ray crystallography, NMR spectroscopy, and laser pulse photography are used to magnify and stop the action occurring within the animal cell.  In this way he reduces life, the cellular processes, to those like message transmission, transport, protein folding, and protein synthesis /catalysis.  He speaks of the new fields of biotechnology and genetic engineering to change the DNA blueprint but that is what evolution has been doing for billions of years.  What's new here beyond splicing into the bacteria's DNA to create drugs like insulin or frost proof vegetables?	2003-04-29
US	51062975	R1ADI044ZAGPVC	0262531372	119112080	Nanotechnology: Molecular Speculations on Global Abundance	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	NanoUtopian Dreams	Crandall presents ten essays out of which to construct your nanoUtopian dream.  Another example of a genre called fictional science where the reader must supply the plot, characters and action.  What is all this talk of nanobots and utility fog? Is man not already constructed from nanomachines?  One might already ask if molecules of nicotine, aspirin, heroin or cocaine are nanomachines since they control the flow of neurotransmitters.  Is molecular engineering merely the search for molecular shapes that will fit together like lego blocks-just like the search for new drugs?<br /> Many are enamored by the way the cells and bacteria of the body construct our reality.  They would like to copy these processes and rename them nanotechnology.  Viewing cells and proteins as nanomachines is not new.  Evolution, itself, could be viewed as a way of encapsulating cooperating cells into  human shaped terrariums. Crandall quotes Richard Preston on the flesh eating Ebola Zaire virus:   \\"seven mysterious proteins that ...work as a relentless machine, a molecular shark, and they consume the body as the virus makes copies of itself.\\"<br />    These writers suggest ways man could profit by controlling the design of these cellular machines.  Richard Crawford's contribution suggests man designed molecules could be injected into the blood steam in order to do the bidding of cosmetic surgeons.  He sees big cash to be made.  Edward Reifman proposes diamond teeth but would this put dentists in the unemployment line?  Brian Wowk manipulates phase array optics to enable the reader to construct a STAR TREK holodeck.  J. Storrs Hall envisions filling one's environment with utility fog, placing one within a kind of pixel coated TV screen where objects in your personal space can be moved as easily as pictures on that screen.  Tom McKendree worries that nanosized assemblers will make goods so plentiful that nothing will be of any value.  Crandall, himself, suggests that when room runs out on earthwe might repackage man into geodesic spheres, floating ecospheres, in stationary orbit high above the planet.  All pretty good fictional science but why not read Greg Bear where you also get the plot, characters and action.	2003-04-29
US	51062975	R2UK5N321GMS6P	0738204455	515034881	Life on the Edge: Amazing Creatures Thriving in Extreme Environments	Books	3	3	6	N	N	ArchaeaSo What?	Gross starts out explaining the chemosynthesis that supports deep sea bacteria, archaea, very well.  His extreme life bacteria are interesting, shedding light on life prior to the earth's oxygen atmosphere, but then what?  The book becomes repetitive.  Yes, some life forms can endure extreme heat, pressure, cold and drought and he explains all of this perfectly.  This all lends support to theories of possible bacterial life on other planets and to what was the first forms of life on earth.  Beyond that it is only a treatise for graduate students seeking a higher degree.  It is a lot of new words-not for the general reader.	2003-04-20
US	51062975	RVFS3U4S75S81	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	God Has Pitiless Indifference	Dawkins, here, writes a neat little account of his views on how replication has produced the earth's biosphere of this information laden planet.  Dawkins never met a strand of DNA he didn't like.  His metaphor is a flowing river of digital DNA-the creator of all living matter.  Expanding on Darwinism he sees each new generation of life as a shaper and polisher of natural selection.  Reproduction, mating, is the crucial test of a species common ancestry.  It upsets him that John and Jane Doe hold steadfast to their creationist myths. The question is-can Dawkins substitute a real, credible designer?  His sketch replaces God with enzymes which, like traffic cops, direct cell pieces either to the head or to the toe of the developing embryo-organism.  However he has no vision of what currents might be shaping these  designer enzymes.<br /> Echoing in from his other books comes his mantra-DNA survival rules all.    Living entities clutch onto the dead illusion of purpose while he claims replication is totally indifferent to such illusions. \\"DNA neither knows nor cares.  DNA just is.  And we dance to its music.\\"  How many of his readers can accept that we live in a universe lacking design, purpose, good or evil, lacking everything but blind pitiless indifference?  Still, Dawkins pulls no punches and writes with more style than most.	2003-04-15
US	51062975	R5DC058XVLN7Y	0812524829	316891420	Slant: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	TURNS DYSTOPIA ON ITS HEAD	Greg Bear outdid himself with this one.  He turned what appeared to be headed for another dystopia on its head and managed to salvage a rather happy ending.  His creative ingenuity salvaged the so-so plot-his content definitely outshone the package.  The comparison of the human brain to colonies of bacteria was stunning-how the mind operates by using molecular language.  His story shows how the shape of society may rely on its language, e.g., being \\"happy\\" or being \\"rich\\" can become a kind of drug and staying so can stifle initiative.<br /> Bear's levels of conflict rise as high into the sky as his Omphalos, a utopian temple turned sour.  His character Schnee has combined the neural nets of bees, wasps, ants and bacteria laden loam to create an ultimate biological computer capable of spreading prions of infectious RNA material throughout the globe-an ultimate biological weapon.  Her tourette like virus, while forcing victims to utter obscenities also makes their brains work faster.  Schnee sought revenge on and recognition from her old boss Nathan who had discounted her ideas.  AI Jill, a conventional computer, finds herself in a death struggle with AI Roddy, a biological computer.  Every character he uses either has an opponent or is engaged in a fierce struggle for their own identity.<br /> We've heard of the quantum computer, the molecular computer, the DNA computer but who has even thought of a bacterial computer?  And no writer gives a better model of how data flow can create designs to makes nanotechnology work.  Bear seems to rip a crack in the biosphere-noosphere and peer into the future.  Futuristic ideas abound-his speaker Torino explains how the earth has become a gigantic single cell.  And as man creates self aware AI computers man's own personality is subject to fragmentation.  All in all, enough new ideas to make Bear a trailblazer for future writers.	2003-04-13
US	51062975	R1KSCZ40O22NTW	0812576438	733619430	Architects of Emortality	Books	4	0	0	N	N	PERFECT MURDERS	Let this author transport you 300 years forward when all births will be ectogenetic-outside the womb.  ARCHITECTS OF EMORTALITY rises above being a mere who-done-it murder mystery and soars into realms of philosophy -longevity or emortality. Consider: does man's current mediocrity stem from his short life span?  What would people do with lives lasting 200 plus years?  Will brain augmentation occur by plugging neurons into external computer memory?  Is the brain but a machine to generate virtual milieus for man's body to function in?  Will the perfection of virtual reality devalue man's experiences by showing that consciousness is reducible to a mere string of zeros and ones?   Will the end of death in man eliminate the need for children?  Is man but a wall decoration in history's hallway?  So many questions about the now short and then longer lifespans of man are raised that this tome comes close to being great literature.<br /> Finding the perpetrator of five mysterious murders of prominent scientists dominates the plot of the story.  Stableford teaches the reader how to commit the perfect murder-make sure your alibi includes being already dead yourself by utilizing a totally exotic murder weapon wielded by a killer robot who cannot be charged with the murder.  On the down side the Oscar Wilde character was a pompous [butt] who at times insisted on proving how erudite he was but only slowed the story to a dead halt.  All in all, however, a great book to curl up with on a rainy day.	2003-04-03
US	51062975	R26AOWN9UJ7SNZ	0312033982	936138230	Mary and the Giant	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mary, Mary, Mary!	This novel is a precursor to Dick's sci-fi masterpieces.  Mary, a quirky, twenty year old suffering from a borderline personality disorder and dysphoria, takes center stage.  Her mood swings, frigidity, diffused guilt, unstable identity and inability to decide who to mate with dominate the plot.  Dick creates the character Mary living in an alien world- \\"sometime in a hundred years her world might exist.\\" The womanizer, Schilling's attempt to bring her up to the surface and provide Mary with a retreat, a place to hide, fails miserably.  Later, in his sci-fi, when Dick provides his misfit characters with alien worlds to inhabit his writing takes off.  But trying to describe this sort of neurotic within the 1950's milieu barely works.  The happy ending for Mary was a pleasant, though barely credible, surprise	2003-03-21
US	51062975	R1MU0U3W88CDPD	1557100128	768229378	The Broken Bubble	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Tra La, Tra La	This Phil K. Dick novel illustrates why he was driven to sci-fi, much to the world's benefit.  This is not great literature, scripts such as his sci-fi, that lifts the reader out of their everyday, boring, mundane lives.  One of his themes - that the world's fate rests in the hands of the young, the innocent and the honest is underlined here.  He shows how kids make glaring mistakes in their personal lives but somehow pull it out of the fire.  One of his quirky sci-fi characters is here in Rachel, but alas, the plot, that of a double triangle of romance, is only a recommendation for universal marriage counseling.  All this story can be said to do is provide the reader a good look into a cracked mirror.  On the plus side it is a well crafted melodrama - an autopsy of the human facade which all too often passes off as modern life.  But now we have reality TV and a camcorder in every bedroom.	2003-03-19
US	51062975	R1683CWU1WTHB0	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	3	1	12	N	N	SPARE US	One hesitates to review this book even in cursory fashion.  It is about far too personal subject matter-a kind of sexless sexuality-for any review to escape the flaws of subjectivity.  Only one character appeared in this reader's mind, young Bechstein, while the others were but charcoal sketches to reveal to readers the overly sensitive, grossly immature character of this college grad.  That a writer could involve himself so deeply in this character and become like a flasher, exposing his genitalia to the public, is rather unusual and amazing.  It was like grinding ground glass into the open wounds of being human.  One learns far more than one wants to about this character's transfixation with his own penis.  Bechstein is blown up by his own male petard.	2003-03-17
US	51062975	R3T9F9JNGIBFOR	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	SCARY HA HA	As to this story by Vonnegut, titled GALAPAGOS,  one is naturally inclined toward charity when reading an author who has spent sixty years of his life to entertain readers.  That said, having the ghost as a narrator was neither scary nor funny.  The interrupting quotations belched from the black box, Mandarax, were pretentious and of course interrupted the flow of the story.  This story shows the his inclination to use gimmicks to establish a new genre which might be called science satire.  One must be fully prepared to suspend disbelief when being told of a blue tunnel to the afterlife that is pursuing the narrator ghost, son of the now tiresome Kilgore Trout.  To pen a narrator who has no part in the action and no motive for telling the story beyond curiosity is a continuous distraction to the story -- and not at all what the author intended.  The ghost was really composed of Vonneguts haunting memories of Vietnam, another distraction.	2003-03-13
US	51062975	RNC33CZQNROGX	0425164349	983349113	Timequake	Books	3	0	0	N	N	BREAD PUDDING WITH RAISINS	TIMEQUAKE read to me as Vonnegut's memoirs.  He decided to re-review his own life.  His character, Kilgore Trout, is constructed out of his scrap file of unpublished ideas. Trout was a standup comedian, one that never took real root in Vonnegut's own life.Although he used the metaphorical play back of a decade devoid of free will, Vonnegut seemed to be ridiculing the idea of free will.<BR> <BR> The best that can be said of this tome is that it is a Vonnegut sampler.  Gimmicks aside, the book is a rambling autobiography-100 pages of bread pudding, family tidbits, and another 100 pages of past written asides-the raisins.  As the cover blurb says \\"a literary form such as the world has never seen before.\\"  That is because the usual editor would have insisted on the book as an autobiography and in cutting out all the disjointed asides, rambling on about historical figures.  I read here a writer who may have reached the end of his literary rope-nothing any great writer should hesitate to admit.	2003-03-11
US	51062975	R2I6GVEFQF69YB	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	4	1	6	N	N	ENDING IT ALL	Obvious satire on all the ridiculous happy endings sewn onto stories but why else throw in the towel on mankind?   One wonders if the story might be a justification for suicide.   One supposes that Vonnegut, like his character, little Newt, was disappointed that in making a Cat's Cradle that there really is no cat and no cradle-that there is really nothing supporting the religious tripe that seem to keep people rolling down the track.  He certainly put the \\"dys\\" in utopia here.  I doubt if a more poignant tale of futility and hopelessness could be penned.<br /> Although his memorable characters are nicely drawn-they are all too easily erased by the final page.  Why struggle through so many pages of words only to reach the same blank page one started with?  Looking for virtue in the tale one can say that it was short and abrupt.  The suffering doesn't last that long.  Everyone would prefer an instant and painless end to their life.	2003-03-10
US	51062975	R20Z717A8J44OK	0141180390	270879868	Messiah (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics) (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	DEATH'S MESSIAH	Great Literature opens the window for all to see what is hidden behind ordinary verbiage-to make transparent words that cloak and distort the world.  Vidal allows John Cave and his other characters to speak like few others have spoken.  Life is \\"like a spray in the ocean. There it forms, there it goes back to the sea.\\" \\"Neither revenge nor reward, only the not-knowing in the grave which is the same for all.\\" \\"It is good to die.\\"  John Cave discovered that with his proposal to establish suicide centers came the obligation for himself, like Christ, to take leave of earth. Like all messiahs Cave had to take the final step, showing mankind his Cavesway.<br /> This is a great novelization of ideas best expressed by Eric Hoffer, THE TRUE BELIEVER, who tried to account for the rise of Hitler, Stalin, and others. The catalyst for mass movements are groups who are bored and frustrated by the mechanized societies that spawn them.  The character Clarissa remarks, \\"boredom, finally, is the one monster the race will never conquer-the monster which will devour us in time.\\" Cave's message was to \\"minds corseted and constricted by familiar ways of thinking, often the opposite of what they truly believed.\\"  Vidal wasn't writing to those who thoughtlessly accept life as it is and was dished out.  I consider this book great literature.	2003-03-08
US	51062975	R1W5HH04EMZKKJ	0425130215	254394811	Hocus Pocus	Books	3	1	7	N	N	ANTIWAR POSTERBOY	In HOCUS POCUS Vonnegut presents the journal of Eugene Debs Hartke -atypical Vietnam Vet-Antiwar poster boy.  The story reminded me of what John K Toole did with Ignatius Reilly in CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES. However, it's difficult to sustain interest when a writer puts all his eggs in one basket.  All the other characters became keys on the piano that Hartke kept playing, on and on.  Now that the Vietnam vet has been pounded to death from every angle, as time goes on, the story loses much of its poignancy. When it was written twelve years past it may have gotten my five stars, unfortunately, literature must be evaluated with one eye on its longevity....	2003-03-04
US	51062975	R31BW0WWKEOCID	0141180285	790543646	Myra Breckinridge/Myron (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	3	11	17	N	N	EASY DOES IT ON THIS ONE	Some of the past reviewers went to take an aspirin and swallowed the whole bottle.  Myra was but an amusing story that posed the deep question of what part one's sexuality plays in defining one's ultimate identity.  If a guy should discover half way through life that he wanted to be a she-read this book before whacking it off.  The amputation solved nothing for Myron. Myra had hoped she'd evolve into a new, superior species but discovered that a lovely woman's body didn't erase her loneliness.  Myra did claim a temporary uniqueness but Vidal's heavy handed ending decapitated that idea.<br />The sequel Myron was a totally different cup of tea.  Since by then there were no characters the reader could identify or sympathize with, a comic book quality emerged which did very little beyond illustrating the amusing war of the sexes. You needn't be a sadist to enjoy this book but it wouldn't hurt. I suppose some of Neal Gabler's (LIFE THE MOVIE) questions regarding psuedo reality and life imitating art were also illustrated here-but don't expect any clarification.	2003-02-28
US	51062975	RHXZVZV0XXCMZ	8435002691	855781794	Kalki (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Heavy Handed Plot	The plot overwhelmed this story, turning some fine characters into unbelievable stick people, reducing them to comic book figures.  One gets involved with the bisexual narrator, Teddy, only to see the rug pulled from beneath her as she is surreptitiously pulled into a conspiracy to destroy mankind (including her two young kids!).  Give me a break.  It doesn't rescue the story to call it a satire-satire of what? Doomsday prophets?  I enjoyed the zany cast with their double personalities until they were forced to cope with the dystopian horror ending. I don't think anyone could remain sympathetic or interested in such a cast of characters. Yes, the Kelly/Kalki character took mental illness to new heights in believing himself to be a trinity of Hindu gods, creators, preservers and destroyers but all he really did was immolate himself to Vidal's rather ridiculous plot.  Is Gore asking us here-look ma, no hands-see what a ludicrous story I can tell?	2003-02-21
US	51062975	R28HLOLFP8OXXQ	0140446087	953554712	Praise of Folly (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	4	21	N	Y	Couldn't finish it!	Sorry, I tried several times to read this book.  I hunted for passages that might interest me. Unfortunately, all I found was [the author] blowing his own horn.  But then fantasy and science is about all that interests me.  I'm sure someone with a historical bent would find this tale exhilarating.	2003-02-21
US	51062975	RQ8QC0WLFW5MD	0380799170	352107718	Cyberweb	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DEEPER THAN DEEP	On re-reading CYBERWEB a year later, I don't think my first review does it justice.  The writer has peeled off the difference between conscious robots and flesh and blood man.  Almost without fanfare the robots are provided with souls.  Her mechanical characters are given both consciousness and emotion.  Their only difference to man is in their composition. This becomes very clear when the outmoded Spinner character uploads herself into Patina's flashy, lifeless bodywork.  I MUST NOW RATE THIS BOOK FIVE STARS.    The writer, thus, dives deeply into the unseen world that controls man's apparent freewill existence.  By using mainframes as purposeful beasts, seeking to control fleshy man, some very deep philosophical questions are posed.  She leaves it up to the reader to fill in the blanks to this very entertaining and thoughtful story.    THE OLD REVIEW READ:  Mason leads her cyberpunk reader into the arena of sci-fi comics.  It?s not possible for humans to grasp the feelings and desires of these robot characters but it?s still a lot of fun to try. She challenges your imagination to follow her character?s avatars, cones, cubes and three headed chimeras as they flit in and out of cyberspace. But hard questions are run up the flagpole.  Can bodiless people exist in this virtual world of telespace?  Can a soul exist in a nonorganic body?  Should robots be discarded like machines when a new model arrives?  Can our culture continue to absorb the changes computer power is unleashing?  Is our reality but an extension of the bits composing telespace?   Even the questions of what consciousness might consist of and whether it is really an advantage to being born as flesh and blood. She makes no attempt to answer these questions but even considering them makes this book a very creative endeavor. You could certainly invest your time on a much less entertaining story.  Also it is short and sweet.	2003-02-15
US	51062975	RRFVCZ86ANZIP	0553576410	615267418	Zeitgeist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enter a Narrative Black Hole	The author of ZEITGEIST sketched out the world as seen through the brain of a pop music magnate, Starlitz, who has a very peculiar world view-where the \\"deeper reality is made out of language.\\" In this story, as in all stories, the characters must follow the narrative-stay in that world created by their language.  The raconteur, Starlitz, tells the reader: \\"in a world made out of language nothing else is even possible.\\"  This peculiar world that the characters exist in is an alien habitat, possibly the only element that qualifies this story as science fiction. Following Phil Dick's obsession of \\"what is reality?\\" Sterling invites the reader into a world so distorted by language as to imprison the characters. On P 152 he tells us, \\"There is no way  out of a world that is made of language.\\"  Starlitz warns his daughter to never go to the place that Wittgenstein called an \\"empty space where things can't be said, can't be spoken, can't even be thought. ...You can never come out of there.  It's a Black Hole.\\"  <br /> The plot was interesting. Starlitz is peddling stupid pop music and trashy G7 gals with zero talent from the worlds richest countries to the some of the world's poorest.  At stories end, in contrast to the G7 girls whose tour ended in monetary disaster, Starlitz likes the idea of next trying the tour with seven very talented gals from seven obscure countries singing the best music with the ambition of making no money at all. Their success could support Sterling's idea that reality depends entirely on the words used-the narrative.	2003-01-30
US	51062975	R3TN6LJGIBPKJ8	0312862113	648798520	Worlds of Exile and Illusion: Three Complete Novels of the Hainish Series in One Volume--Rocannon's World; Planet of Exile; City of Illusions	Books	3	6	16	N	N	CITY OF LIES	It's fun to resurrect these old novels.  The story CITY OF ILLUSIONS is misnamed; it should have been CITY OF LIES.  The Shing aliens are the best liars ever and have the ability to mindlie telepathically to take control of earthlings minds.  They meet their match, however in Falk-Ramarren, the split brained super hero who the story is all about.  The females in the story are all pawns as are most of the other characters.  However if the travails of one earthling's struggles to regain his lost mind is your cup of tea then this story is very engrossing.	2003-01-25
US	51062975	R13HTPFT9Y5DDJ	0743201507	409082267	The Electric Meme: A New Theory of How We Think	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	Memetic Determinism??	In this book Aunger tries to create a material, not metaphorical meme-an ELECTRIC MEME.  His meme is a parasitic super replicator that uses the host brain to accomplish replication.  He defines his meme as a millisecond neural tendency to spike across the brain's synaptic gaps.  However it is well known that human consciousness requires hundreds of a second.  This means that by the time one becomes aware of a meme's content it has already been replicated in one's brain.  Before one becomes conscious of making a decision one's brain has already made it.  Aunger suggests that free will can't survive the coming onslaught of neuroscientific advances-and if his idea holds water he might be right.<br />Aunger got as far as discussing neurotransmitters and nitrous oxide ions that produce neuron firing.  But he has limits to how fast and how tiny he wants to go. He stopped short of including the internal quantum measurement required by cells to replicate (as articulated by McFadden in QUANTUM EVOLUTION).  Although he finishes by saying he'll accept either finding of whether memes exist or not, he first leads one through 300 repetitive pages of caring a lot.  He tries to piggyback his idea of the electric meme on prion and computer virus replicators.  Strange that with all he had to say of comp-virus he never once used the common term cellular automata.  If you can plow through this book your IQ will increase by 1%.	2003-01-16
US	51062975	R3HI39FJXQTGNI	0618056734	750191808	Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder	Books	3	1	4	N	N	BAD POETIC SCIENCE?	Dawkins lamented the poet Keats negative response to Newton's analysis of colored light using a prism.  He feels that scientific metaphor can be made to be poetic.  I think Dawkin's thesis is that just as the rainbow is an illusion produced by light waves in the human eye, so all that man sees of the solid world is a virtual representation created by the brain.  Entranced with the computer metaphor for the working of the brain, Dawkins sees the neurons as hardware and the sensory input as software.  Thus Dawkins unweaves the solid, physical world as but waves passing through the prism of man's brain. What is really presented to man is a simulated, virtual reality world assembled by the machinery of his brain.  Thus one is asked to view the end result as a computer graphics picture such as an artist would create for special effects in a movie.<br />While human DNA presents a hard wired, general picture of the past environment (say whether the animal lived on land or under the sea) the memory of the brain must react to the current, detailed environment.  Dawkins asks what caused the evolutionary inflation or ballooning of the human brain's size, contrasted with other animals.  His speculations include maps, metaphors, representational language and drawing, memes and what not.  Isn't it fun to throw one's two cents unto the pile?  I have to give the book a horizontal thumb.  He threw in responses to critics of his past books, for example, turning his selfish genes into selfish cooperators.  He also included mini reviews and comments on books he has read but I don't think he got his lasso around the horns of this steer.	2003-01-13
US	51062975	RI9RQNETZKY8P	0195135121	128986086	The Way of the Cell: Molecules, Organisms, and the Order of Life	Books	4	2	4	N	N	WHAT IS LIFE?	Franklin Harold's the WAY OF THE CELL, by analogies with computers and machines, leads the reader closer to understanding the relationship of the 1-D genotype to the 3-D phenotype.  In English, how does the DNA blueprint lead to the finished, living organism?  He shows the cell as the nanobot machine able to produce the pieces of what we call life.  One of his favorite thinkers is Richard Dawkins who says genes build cellular survival machines.  On P. 81 Harold tells us, \\"from genes to cells is a journey without maps.\\"<br />So what is life?  This book is an apology for man's inability to create life in a test tube.  Yes, the author ends the book by throwing up his hands but the journey is still exciting.  Man's attempt to create life in a test tube is merely his attempt to magnify these cellular sized wonders.  By magnifying the lego pieces within the cell Harold shows that man within is filled with a billion tiny oceans teaming with life.  Life must lie hidden in the currents which flow within the cellular oceans.  When man can navigate these currents he will understand what life is.  The author helps to reveal the wonder of this fantastic voyage.<br />What is life?  Man knows it when he sees it.  The fact that we can't manufacture life from scratch is no different than not being able to create a second sun from scratch.  If life were a book of blank pages, the cell is the printing press that imprints the book with words, sentences and paragraphs.  Another analogy Harold uses is that of a river of DNA flowing within cellular banks.  The author warns us that analogies are only half truths.  Since his book is filled with analogies, the whole truth of what life is can never be told.	2003-01-08
US	51062975	RNRUZG28ILGOE	0441531830	280207170	Millennium	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Spare me this future!	This story skips the reader to the end of the third millennium.  What a sight!  One that makes almost no sense.  Although replicant bodies can be quickly manufactured to replace the accident victims snatched from death, although human organs can be readily replaced by mechanical parts, although robots can possess big computer brains used to rule mankind-it is still necessary to stage cumbersome time-gate flights to the past to acquire humans for the peopling of a new planet.  When these future time travelers leave behind some weapons they must turn heaven and hell upside down to get them back.  I must admit that like the rest of mankind I don't understand the niceties of time travel but I'm afraid the reader must look elsewhere to solve these riddles.  It seems Varley started to write a dystopian ending for mankind by showing us slews of Heaven's Gate type suicides.  Then perhaps his film director suggested the rather futile, last minute, happy ending rescue of mankind-one that just left me hanging.	2003-01-07
US	51062975	R26FEJU0IYGTTS	0226308650	67846594	Animal Minds: Beyond Cognition to Consciousness	Books	3	13	39	N	N	A DOG CHASING ITS OWN TAIL	Griffin's hair turned white pursuing answers in this field.  He lists 800 books in his 45 page Bibliography!  It is a real test of the reader's vocabulary: perceptual consciousness, reflective consciousness, epiphenomenon, cognitive ethology and on and on and on. <br />A class in semantics may have clarified the author's thoughts.  Everything he talks about, e.g., whether animals and computers can think, is based on his or others verbal definitions without much evidence to verify these beliefs.  It is obvious that every creature has its own view of the world.  And equally obvious that there is no way to compare the worldview of a bee or ant to a human worldview because of greatly differing boundary conditions.  I doubt that a long recitation of ones ignorance will prove useful in the grand scheme of life.  And one simply can't define oneself up to a higher state of knowledge. This writing reminds me of a dog chasing its own tail.	2002-12-05
US	51062975	RS9Q77ZLZLMQG	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	3	3	4	N	N	POV WRITING LESSON	I doubt the editorial comment that Grisham wrote Pelican Brief for the movie.  The book allows the white Gray Grantham to end  up in Darby Shaw's sack. The misogamist movie downplays any final romance between the interracial couple.   Such is life in America in the `90's.<br />In this story Grisham provides a primer for using the omniscient point of view.  Out of a hundred scenes he gives Darby Shaw or Gray Grantham half of them and spreads the other fifty scenes rather equally amongst the minor characters. I think he had the reader hooked well enough that he could  have thrown  in more exposition.  He drove along that fine line between keeping the reader in suspense and keeping them in the dark.  He avoided the opportunity to educate so he could entertain.	2002-11-25
US	51062975	R12WXTG4TPZBBK	0553352547	574905026	Perfect Symmetry: The Search for the Beginning of Time	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Universe As Quantum Probability Wave?	This book should be in print.  This is an excellent primer for understanding cosmology-the birth of the universe. Although pre-string, little quantum theory is left out.  But what I liked most was the last twenty pages of his reflections.  There he says that scientific truth must be third person, the sharing of collective truth and not a first person ego trip.  He quotes Einstein that personal truth is a kind of optical delusion-\\"a kind of prison for us.\\"  Like many others Pagels found some tranquility in the noosphere of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin who asserted the big bang will eventually culminate in the Omega point, an ocean of consciousness where every drop of water remains conscious of itself.  His message is purely scientific- liberate yourself \\"from the obsession with certainty and hope\\" since these close you \\"to new experiences about reality.\\"<br />Pagels realized that most theoretical physics has become a belief factory and that nothing we hold as truth today will suffice for tomorow's world.  He urges his reader to develop tolerance for complexity and to welcome contradiction in order to escape the fallacies inherent in simplicity and certainty.  He urges his reader to live as he died-an explorer of the unknown.	2002-11-09
US	51062975	RDSI794S5S0ES	0716740249	963295738	The Dependent Gene: The Fallacy of "Nature vs. Nurture"	Books	3	18	37	N	N	Old Fashion Semantics?	Moore's primary concern is that equal emphasis be paid to both genetic and non genetic factors in studying human traits.  His hope is that if $3 billion is spent sequencing the human Genome's DNA that another $3 billion should be spent on understanding the development of genes.  Put bluntly, Moore thinks that confining yourself to genetic determinism is lazy, dumb thinking.  For example, scientists should now know better than to draw connections between skin color and IQ levels.  However, I think his whole approach is old fashioned semantics.  He thinks because an author traces  a trait to a gene this means that author is ignoring the cell in which the gene develops and ignoring proteins, enzymes and hormones that trigger growth.  The genetic-non-genetic dichotomy is out of date.  Why waste time with it?  Moore wants to wean the reader away from genetic determinism but isn't this just a corner he's painted himself into?  He suggests that one shouldn't label genes and attribute them to traits.  But who is still doing this beyond the media?  Modern writers now take a biochemical, proteomic rather than a genetic approach. In many ways the book chops down an old tree that is nearly toppling from the weight of its dead wood.<br /> Moore omits much of what doesn't fit into his pretty picture.  For example no mention of knockout studies (The Misunderstood Gene by Michel Morange) where one missing fosB gene prevented the mother mouse from tending her litter of newborns.  Also missing is a discussion of certain inherited conditions like sickle cell, Huntington's and hemophilia where the non genetic factors add little to the understanding of these mutations. Genes are only important because they can be modified. The trouble is that the field is moving so fast that anything published is outmoded before the ink is dry.	2002-11-02
US	51062975	R3CNBZUXOBV18T	0393323102	37256842	Quantum Evolution: How Physics' Weirdest Theory Explains Life's Biggest Mystery (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A LONG TIME COMING!	Finally a science writer who pokes beneath the surface of cells and neurons to explore how the quantum realm affects man's evolution and consciousness-a long time coming.  McFadden wades right inside the cell, the DNA, RNA, proteins and enzymes.  He put all this in the form of a story for the layman but kept all the jargon for his colleagues.  While you read his story you can soak up a basic education in biology.  For example he suggests that both the animal's mitochondrion and the plant's chloroplasts started as independent bacteria before symbiotically hitching up with the animal and plant .<br />McFadden explains that a unmeasured quantum state remains only a possibility and that to join the real world a quantum state must be measured.  He dives right into Heisenberg's uncertainty  principle and asserts that it is a fundamental property of matter.  His most creative position is that the living cell can measure its own internal state.  He clearly defines his notion of life as a cellular system that can perform internal quantum measurement to replicate, thus providing order as a means of avoiding decay or an increase in entropy. He demands that to stay alive a cell must accomplish the directed action of replication.<br />His cursory happy ending supporting man's free will was amusing. His stab at explaining consciousness as brain waves was impressive though incomplete.  Where he got bogged down was with exaggerating the importance of spoken language.  He seemed to say that one could never know whether a mute or a baby could be conscious or not. This notion contradicted his thesis that consciousness springs from the a cellular, quantum fountain of measurement and replication.	2002-10-22
US	51062975	R2TRSWR10RCWXO	0201155842	479039296	Unraveling Dna: The Most Important Molecule Of Life, Revised And Updated Edition	Books	3	1	7	N	N	DNA as Modern Tower of Babel	Climbing the helix staircase of DNA the author attempts a survey of everything new in the field up to 1996. His effort to speak to the layman is rather uneven-half the book is strictly for PHd candidates in microbiology. It would appear that each research team in the field of unraveling DNA speaks its own language.  What makes the comparison with the tower of Babel more apt is that DNAology sounds like another secular religion.  Many of the body's ills previously attributed to God are now being attributed to faulty DNA.  Also there seems to be a tunnel vision developing that the study of DNA will bring mankind into the promised land.<br /> Kamenetski did provide some interesting tidbits. The coiled string of DNA in each human cell is 7 feet long when stretched out.  Deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA, isn't an acid at all, rather its  a salt.  Plants cannot assimilate nitrogen from the air and must have a symbiosis with nitrogen fixing bacteria in order to produce proteins.  The success of cancer cell growth lies in their ability to disarm cancer killing T-cells by ordering them to commit suicide-apoptosis.  The ribosome process acts like a molecular computer to translate the nucleotide language of DNA and RNA into the language of proteins called amino acids.  This specialized computer uses only one program called the genetic code.<br /> Kamenetski points to claimed successes with AIDS and atherosclerosis and  successes in manufacturing insulin, interferon and growth hormone. The author hints at further futuristic breakthroughs in genetic engineering that will crumble the species mixing barrier.  This will make the chimeras of Greek mythology commonplace.  He foresees the day when diagnosis of all disease will stem from DNA analysis and when chemically modified DNA will be used as drugs.  People will then greet each other with, \\"How's your genetic health?\\"  But who knows whether future discoveries will reveal that everybody's DNA contains the seeds of its own death?  Who knows whether cellular degeneration will become synonymous with maturation?<br />In reply to the the purpose of life, selfish gene arguments -replication of genes in one's children shows next to nothing.  What is more telling, say, is whether man's genius could invent a spaceship that would permit travel to and population of other worlds?	2002-10-18
US	51062975	R1TA32G6PD1C64	031226691X	4624474	Virtual Organisms: The Startling World of Artificial Life	Books	4	4	6	N	N	EnterInorganic Life	This book is an interesting survey of progress in using intelligent computer programs like cellular automata to replace older, more rigid programs.  Ward attempts to redefine life as the passing of information.  He concludes that \\"the informational basis of life can be abstracted away from the bodies we find it in and lose nothing in the process.\\"<BR>  <BR>He wants to attribute \\"life\\" to both organic and inorganic species, thus his title.  He moves by steps to show that the quality of human life is no more special than the life of plants, birds, mammals, insects, algae and fish.  Although man has advantages with manipulating symbols, other life forms are superior as receptors of smells (ants and dogs) and gravitational maps (salmon and migrating birds).  Ward wants the reader to accept the idea that there is nothing any more special about human life than there is about ant life.  In fact many of the Artificial Life programs were inspired by ant behavior.  All life becomes a matter of processing information.<br />Most of the examples given were in the field of telecommunications, network switching.  Parallels were drawn between the information passed in DNA replication and that passed by computer programs.  The groups he discusses are endeavoring to breed software in an evolutionary manner analogous to breeding animal life.  To his thinking a string of computer bits are agents analogous to a string of amino acids in the chromosome of living agents-interesting ideas.	2002-10-14
US	51062975	RXVLQSE0QSYRM	0765342898	765759687	The Cassandra Complex (Emortality)	Books	3	1	7	N	N	GIVE ME A BREAK!	The themes in The CASSANDRA COMPLEX are much too complex (overpopulation,longevity,biological warfare). The story as told by an emotionally confused, female forensic pathologist is very confusing.  The book would have been easier to digest if it were read back to front. That everything came out nicely in the end was contrived and not motivated by any of the character's actions.  Everything just sorted itself out in the last few pages. Well made stories show great craft but rarely enlighten the reader...	2002-10-08
US	51062975	R3AOPT1CWNZIFL	0812544749	457759028	Beggars Ride (Beggars Trilogy (also known as Sleepless Trilogy))	Books	4	3	5	N	N	DYSTOPIA a la carte	The Beggars Trilogy is a sordid tale depicting a drug addicted U.S. population a century into the future.  The bio-engineered, genius tribe called the  Sleepless decide to play god with the common man.  They essentially turn man into plants.  They used an injection of nanobots to grow a network embedded in man's skin- enabling him to feed from the soil as roots nourish a tree.  Further, man's skin could also use photons like plants do in photosynthesis.  How does that sound?  The leitmotif reminds me of Eugene O'Neill's LONG DAYS JOURNEY INTO NIGHT. If in a century nanotechnology engulfs genetic engineering it appears the result shown in this book will be artificial life, not enriched life.  Genius in this tale snuffs out both hope and free will. The Super sleepless had as much fear of innovation as the retarded sleepers.  As both sides fought to retain the old and curtail the new, we are led to a total impasse.  A snake swallowing its own tail.  <br />This series is quite an undertaking.  The craft of writing is mastered, the suspense sustained to the end, and lots of learning was dispensed on how the brain parts work.  The question that must have  kept cropping up with Ms. Kress was, \\"What do I do for an encore?\\" This confrontation with biogenetic engineering took the reader as deeply into dystopia as is inhumanly possible.  Some of the characters actually evolved right out of the human race to become the Sleepless Masters who fortunately, it turned out, had an Achilles heel.  The Sleepless saw themselves as gods to the unevolved human.  When their plan went up in smoke not a tear was shed by the reader.  Why not?  Because here was a story of sex without joy, intelligence like dead AI,  and spirituality without god.  The trilogy spanned over a hundred years but where were the holidays, where was Easter and Christmas?  It was bleak, bleaker and bleakest.	2002-10-02
US	51062975	R66KDRL4D4UOZ	0553579703	271355342	Only Forward	Books	4	1	4	N	N	3 Stars for Story + 1 for Creativity	This story is a rarefied view of what might happen as culture degenerates into hundreds of separate world views.  The narrator's name, Stark, was short for stark-raving-mad.  Each of the other characters represented a turn in the maze which drove Stark insane.  Jeamland, as a transition way station to his many future pocket universes, was packed full of possibilities for creating a complex character.  Stark was not one man but a series of Russian doll selves, each representing a period in his growth from childhood.  As to the mystery element, yes, at first the reader wonders in what direction the story will turn next but finally realizes that it doesn't matter at all.  The most daring insight presented is the discovery that molecular computers are churning out the bits of data that makes up Stark's brutal existence.  Once Stark's mind leaps through the Jeamland portal into the future there is no return to either sanity or the present.<br />The exposition revealed in chapters 21-2 belonged in the opening to this weird tale.  The reader deserved to know outright that Jeamland was a mind portal leading to the far distant future.  The happy ending demanded by Hollywood agents was not convincing.  The division of this future City into unique, idiosyncratic neighborhoods was very creative.  Smith envisions the future as made up of pockets of people who shared similar neurosis and psychosis. The novel was a collection of a hundred short stories stitched together by the mind of the narrator Stark.  I read it thinking: so much more could have been done with this material.	2002-09-25
US	51062975	R2L6K091IFEPDM	1587541165	833977771	Tom O'Bedlam	Books	4	2	12	N	N	Naked Fantasy With Fig Leaf of Science	This story presents the characters an escape from their future, dystopian world. The theme includes other life forms whirling around distant stars.  In his rather zany story Silverberg presents us with a rather [weak] cast of characters who become drugged with their dreams of other worlds.  The character's dull, purposeless  lives are overwhelmed by their visions.  Within the story's parameters these dream worlds are said to exist in some objective manner as shown by photos returned from an extraterrestrial probe. The material can  be interpreted in several ways: as positing the existence of parallel worlds, as merely subjective dream material of the characters, or as pure, naked fantasy.  It seems that Silverberg uses a mere fig leaf of science to cover this naked fantasy.<br />Tom O'Bedlam is the most engaging and puzzling character. The author asks the reader to view Tom as possessing a telekinesis that enables him to transport people out of their bodies and into extraterrestrial worlds.  Tom becomes the gateway or worm hole entrance to these dream worlds.  Although Tom is portrayed as crazy or faking craziness, the reader is asked to accept Tom's killing of people as actually releasing them from the pain of their worldly life. The reader is asked to accept Tom's power to propel them to a kind of other world heaven.  The willy nilly story becomes confusing when Tom transports both willing souls and unwilling souls out of their bodies-all types: a salvation seeker, a would be suicide and would be killer are  all sent to a non human afterlife.  All characters who Tom randomly touches are transported, leaving behind a corpse whose face is painted with a Crossing smile.	2002-09-20
US	51062975	RSI5MV75SMMUQ	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Genome as Evolution's Escapehatch	Bear deserves a pat on the back for positing a new deity to control human evolution-the Genome as master designer.  Through Kaye Lang, his heroine, he presents the Genome as a self aware entity able to incorporate the environment in steering the direction of evolution.  Like earlier versions of God the controlling mechanism is beyond the view of even the smartest minds, be they scientific or secular.  In his story the designer within the genome interacts with the environment to determine which mutation will benefit mankind as a species.  The result of this are the births of viable babies with 52 chromosomes instead of the normal 46.<br />The metaphor of Darwin's radio tries to illustrate the control mechanism hidden within the genome that tunes into the next evolutionary waystation.  It is fine to prate on about evolution but what directs the mutations within the chromosome.  What man sees with his tunneling microscopes does not reveal the controlling mechanism.  What the biochemists in the story could not explain was whether the observed mutations were a disease to be wiped out or an advance in man's abilities.  This story exposes where the secrets of a mutated gene must lie.  To understand what is secretly occurring within the genes one would require a frame, a \\"paragene.\\"  As a paralanguage may be used to explain a language a paragene would be required to explain the mutations of that gene.  It becomes evident that such clarifications are beyond our view and must remain hidden within the quantum realm.<br />With this in mind it was clear that Bear failed to pursue the investigation to any plausible conclusion.  What began as a legitimate search for answers Bear steers into the muck and mush of an emotional quagmire.  At story's end Bear leaves his main investigators caught up in their parenthood-shows Kaye Lang as the \\"Eve\\" of a new species.  The reader only sees them tearing down the highway toward Mexico to escape detection and incarceration of their dear new species daughter in an internment camp. Some take this ending as Bear's setup for a sequel but I think the author just ran out of steam.	2002-09-11
US	51062975	R2CDJPMY17NFTN	0553576380	694600051	Noir	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Dip Into the DARKSIDE	In NOIR by K.W. Jeter the author dishes up a new slice of reality-one seen through the cyber-fixed eyes of his \\"asp head\\" character McNihil.  McNihil prefers the noir reality to the world of neurotechnology, brain manipulation, others were forced to endure.  The work he has done on his vision permits him to see a world with noir (black & white) vision.  Noir vision appears to win out in the end.  As one character described it, \\"Maybe the old movies had finally leaked out from McNihil's private universe to the world at large so everyone could see them at last the way he did.\\"<br />Using a hero who can't really be killed off does present an alternate reality that no doubt Jeter's real life hero, Philip K. Dick, would enjoy.  In fact Jeter uses one of Dick's best lines, \\"Reality is that which when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away,\\" without attribution.  Perhaps since continuing the Blade Runner novels Jeter sees their identities as blurred together.<br />Jeter creates his own Alice down the cyberspace, x-rated rabbit hole he calls the Wedge World.  The capitalistic villain of the story attempts to turn the Wedge World  into a vector pool, where a \\"vector\\" disease will infect the  minds of all those who come a lusting after sex. McNihil's noir vision allows him to avoid this trap but not without paying the ultimate price.<br />This experimental genre seems to ask the question: Can you unwind a story with a hero who emerges from a pure, nihilistic womb?  Or to put it another way can the reader identify with a hero who not only has a fetish for murder but for making audio cables out of human spines (Reminiscent of Hitler's human skin lamp shades).  How about a hero who speaks with the dead and even narrates the story from his own deceased tongue?  The speaking dead could have been a literary device to assure the reader he wasn't talking about flesh and blood people, rather in metaphors with which to spotlight reality's riddles.	2002-09-11
US	51062975	R2D1MLDL3D1JJ	1892389134	82925568	...And the Angel with Television Eyes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	DON'T TOUCH THAT REMOTE	John Shirley constructs a concealed world, existing side-by-side with the world visible to the normal human eye.  We all know that a similar world must exist within the  sub microscopic, quantum realm of which we are all composed.  Shirley populates his concealed world with creatures who feed off the souls of mankind.  Environmentally, these creatures are vulnerable to the electromagnetic emanations man uses in his radios, cell phones, TVs and radar.  Their message to mankind is `clean up your environmental act.'<br /> Max, the main character, begins as a soap opera star whose ennui drives him to quit his TV role playing.  He accepts the larger task of unraveling the role concealed within his being. The Angel with TV Eyes changes Max's perspective of his dream like visions describing a concealed world.  At an earlier date Lord Greymark had been dissolved into pure information and implanted in the womb of Max's mother.  Max's pursuit of a larger than life role triggers his revelation as Lord Greymark, a 12 foot entity concealed within the jaded actor's soul.  Lord Greymark possesses great power that he uses to extinguish the fires of Thanatos, a character representing death and vowing destruction of all that is good in man.<br /> Just as the pictures on a TV are converted from unseen waves, the vision of the Angel with TV Eyes flows via holowaves from within the quantum realm.  This posits a reality which few can either detect or receive on their vision screen.  By personalizing a character with TV eyes John Shirley creates an entity directed from within this hidden reality.  A story that begins with a cast of bud-like human characters soon blossoms into a bouquet of revealed Spirits constructed of plastic, metal and electronic switches.  As the evolution of man is expressed through DNA, so the Spirits evolve by means of vibratory packets-a non genetic form of evolutionary record keeping.  Thus the author posits another method the unseen Spirits are using to throw the evolutionary dice.  What the Spirits seek is the same as what man seeks-companionship.	2002-09-11
US	51062975	R24MVU97JBGZU9	0345386906	281259341	The Cybernetic Walrus (The Wonderland Gambit, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First get a good grip on Reality	Jack L. Chalker's theory of existence was spelled out in Book I, P. 223: \\"... Sometime, somebody, in a world we otherwise know nothing about but which has to be far more advanced than the one we now knew, built a vast computer for some reason and put tremendous knowledge and capability into it.  Something went wrong, or so it seemed.  A group, a small group, of people from that original place, that true universe, had come into the system and gotten lost, then trapped, in an ever-increasing series of exquisitely detailed virtual universes.. [Brand] was the only hope of getting everybody together again and back to reality. ...\\"<BR> Chalker wrote, \\"All reality is programming.  We cannot know the real: we are trapped in an endless series of simulations, all of us, and some, like myself, in simulations within simulations. ....\\"  He uses an IT, a thing, a faceless one or a gray ancient to speak these lines, rather than a flesh and blood character.  This device implied a para-programmer, one outside the mind of man.  This invented God is in control not only  of the author outside the story's pages but in control of all the characters within the pages of the book.<BR> Reality now has a counterpart, virtual reality.  The characters, en mass, stare into the mirror of their own minds and realize that they had no measuring rod with which to gauge their own realities. The mind is self reflective.  The mind has no outer objective way to measure either its input or output.  The characters reveal the dead end of human thought.  The fact that the tactile nerves register solidity reveals little regarding production or projection of such solidity.  There is no way to distinguish whether the neurons fire due to sensory input rather than from say drugs or computer generated inputs.  Reality, thus loses its previous foundation.<BR> Chalker posits an Existence Computer with limitless memory able to fill in a separate reality for each and every mind.  Everyone gets their own set of individual mental constructs.  With this god-like computer unlimited universes to surround each person's set of ideas could be created.  (P. 211  BK II).   Taking this idea one step further, each person is a circuit on the mother board of the universe.  Every solid item that surrounds a person is created within another little circuit.  The whole universe is the giant circuitry, the mother board of existence.  We are all but chips, powered from this hidden source of energy that we call existence.  Chalker names his god character Matthew Brand.  Brand understands the circuitry and power of the Existence Computer enough to become part of it.  Brand was able to join with the energy reactor in order to control the energy flow into the mother board of the Existence Computer.	2002-09-11
US	51062975	R1GXEJLKDBFPC4	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	3	0	3	N	N	REPROGRAMMING MANKIND	Written fifty years ago, Bester's story gives us another tactic for polishing man's morality-human Espers or peepers who can read the minds of would be liars, cheats and murderers. However there is always a method for circumventing the truth.  In this case it was the constant recitation of a musical jingle (a similar device was used in Helperin's TRUTH MACHINE).  The peepers are presented as the keepers or priests of man's morality in spite of fact that several of them broke their vows in search of money or power.  It is strongly suggested that in the evolution of man, development of esp powers will become essential for peace.<br />Although there were satellite villages, space travel, high tech weaponry and artificial intelligence framing the story, I kept realizing that I was only reading a  psychological, murder mystery.  The futuristic setting wasn't really essential.  The title may easily have been THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE, the murderer's recurring dream and hallucination. The ending flows into the realm of Freudian theory and repressed guilt. The title, THE DEMOLISHED MAN, refers to a total reprogramming of a man's brain, whereby criminal traits can be erased as the subject receives a second chance at life.  The most I can muster is three stars.	2002-09-03
US	51062975	R3P6HHHX11J4VY	0441007554	170689845	All Tomorrow's Parties	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Universe As 3-D computer screen (our lives pass in parade)	Gibson is one of few writers who allows his characters a vision of the mechanisms supporting reality's existence.  Characters like Rei Toei are composed of pure information bits.  The character Laney's world, enhanced by his exposure to the drug 5-SB, is composed of computer bits.  Laney has schooled Rei Toei to interact with the crude, sensual characters who people the ordinary world.  Laney would no doubt agree with Ed Fredkin that \\"there is nothing as concrete in the world as a bit-it's more concrete than a photon or electron, ... it's not a simulation of reality; it's not something that pretends to be reality.  It is reality.\\"  Laney's problem is that he suspects his own interpretations of the data stream are being tampered with by an outside agent, Harwood.  He also has totally ambivalent feelings toward Harwood who he thinks could be a strange attractor -one bringing order out of chaos.  Laney has at the core of his being an emptiness devoid of both light and darkness.  This complicates the puzzle wherein he must struggle like a amateur painter to identify the future human datascape.<br />In Gibson's story there are two types of people-those aware of their bit or interstitial existence and those who aren't aware.  Tessa, for example, is trying to capture the interstitial world on film.  Those who are aware control those who are not aware.  This interstitial world is made of stored data that can be shaped or programmed like clay.  The heart of Gibson's universe can only be reached through an informational wormhole-a place called the Walled City.  This place is peopled by the avatars  of people who escaped from the human datascape and who can play with the pixel created characters in the story.  Gibson sets the action on the squattersville bridge and around box dwellers to show how little affluence will mean in his future world.  It is a world where nanotechnology allows for the cloning of both people and things.  A world in which scarcity is a thing of the past.  One could say that Gibson plays the role of  a programmer rather than an author of his stories.  The story must get five stars for creativity.	2002-09-01
US	51062975	R3MAL82YBR138G	0345412885	58749141	Truth Machine	Books	3	1	2	N	N	SPARE US FROM THIS FUTURE.	Labeled as a speculative novel, Halperin attempted a futurist, utopian work which might be slotted as genius genre.  To me it was dystopian.  The genius hero has a photo memory and writes a program not only for a truth machine but other programs to help mankind locate the fountain of youth.  The application of the truth machine corrals mankind into pens of boring creatures.  The denouement finds that although guilty of an old murder the hero has contributed too much to mankind to be executed by the world state.  The ending reminded me of Kesey's ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST where the hero's lobotomy turned into a death sentence.  Here the procedure was administered to destroy the hero's photo memory, turning him into not much more than a perfect babysitter.  The story, narrated by an AI computer, was a bit unnerving to me by projecting a future filled with cold, machine like, inhuman calculators.  The future inhabitants of planet earth may become truthful but also about as exciting as a cage of rabbits.	2002-08-02
US	51062975	R1EUJAPBKQAQB6	1591131626	541784494	Inside the Rainbow: A Search for Solutions to Reality's Riddles	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not a Cautionary Tale	This following review stems from a judge in a contest: &quot;Unquestionably, INSIDE THE RAINBOW is among the most imaginative-I might even say 'visionary' novel entries I've read so far. Certainly in the science fiction category it's the entry that best displays the potential of the genre.  From 'if this goes on' dystopian speculation to nanotechnology to politics to artificial intelligence to carbocrystalline morphing deep-impact quantum implications to the origins and nature of consciousness itself-holy cow, Goheen's novel packs in more ideas than most sci-fi potboilers on the racdks nowadays.  I read it in one sitting and had a great time doing it.&quot;	2002-07-11
US	51062975	R361F17B79HWFH	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Platter of Amorality	Best to label this story a fantasy despite the fact that such fantasy is revealed in only a few paragraphs.  Most of the book is what used to pass as witty dialogue between stifled, elite Englishmen and women.  Most of this dialogue displays the thinking of a totally amoral Lord Henry who verbally paints everyone he meets as a slivered character reflecting his own amorality.  To Lord Henry, one's belief in anything is proof of one's deranged thinking.  Both he and Dorian experienced continued hedonism but with no gratification.<br /> The reader is forced to accept the premise that an artist painted the portrait of Dorian and in so doing captured the young man's soul on the canvas.  While Dorian lived the portrait kept aging while Dorian retained his outer, youthful appearance.  Thus no other living character in the story had any evidence of the aging ugliness of the portrait.  At Dorian's death the living portrait, the soul of Dorian, returned to its pristine, youthful glow.<br /> Throughout the story the reader is joined with the character Dorian in accepting the portrait's brutal transformation.  But with the array of deaths that followed Dorian's heartless cruelty the reader kept being confronted with the pointlessness of the tale.  The reader would like to have witnessed Lord Henry's response to the apparent suicide of Dorian Gray who he worshipped throughout the tale.  But no such ending was provided.	2002-06-27
US	51062975	R39Q6P2E4P3CP	1893224546	477056924	The Theory of Everything: The Origin and Fate of the Universe	Books	3	3	15	N	N	JUST BECAUSE	Locked as he is in his encyclopedia of cosmology, Stephen Hawking, spends too much of the book positing the question: \\"Why does the universe go to all the bother of existing?\\" The answer he proposes is \\"just because.\\"  Hawking is obsessed with knowing the mind of God which he seems to equate with THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING.  Yes, he may succeed in uniting quantum uncertainty with gravity but knowing all the physical laws may not make it any easier for man to live or survive.  I would describe this little treatise on the origin and fate of the Universe as his attempt to create a universe with soul.  He is much like his idol Einstein who couldn't accept a universe appearing out of the random throw of the dice.<br />Although Hawking complements Wittgenstein as being the most famous philosopher of the 20th Century, he pays no heed to Ludwig's admonition to stick to the analysis of language.  Thus he fashions the analogy of a universe like the surface of a world globe-with two additional dimensions-to suggest that initial boundary conditions are not required. Hawking takes his own metaphor literally. Therefore, there is no need for any agency to have created such a universe.<br />If Hawking's no boundary universe is correct then he says the creator would have had little freedom or no choice in establishing the initial conditions.  He paints the creator in the image of Hawking-a God who discovered a Theory of Everything. He may as well have concluded that the universe with all its TOEs or GUTs is a self designed entity.  Still the book is good material for sci-fi writers who would explain that imaginary numbers and realities are the good stuff out of which the universe is constructed and reality may only be virtual reality.	2002-06-18
US	51062975	R3LAOLD8DHH94O	055356935X	736627819	Hot Sky at Midnight	Books	3	2	3	N	N	NO DREAMSNO DISILLUSIONMENTS	A bit of skyward soap opera here complete with love and lust.  The Author presents cast of characters all submerged in the dystopian world of lust within environmentally ruined cities.  Global warming has flooded the seacoasts, nearly destroyed Japan and turned the good old days on its head.  To finalize this headlong dive into dystopia many of the characters are blown up in an ill fated plot to conquer a space station, get rich quick and live happily ever after.<br />There were a few flaws in this story where irrelevant questions were given high priority.  For example, one big question posed was whether company S or company K would make the adapto metabolic breakthroughs, thus allowing for a new species of man who could breath methane rather than oxygen.  Such a successful process would allow either company to one day control the world.  This reader didn't see what difference it would make who the winner was.<br />The stories most novel idea was that faster than light space travel will render ordinary human sight useless, requiring man to develop trick vision in order to pilot space ships to new worlds.  Even the  brilliant character, Farcas, who develops a new kind of sightless vision, must be sacrificed to the plot's  need to end the story.  Another main character is led through a series of failures so mind shattering that he volunteers for the flight to outer space with no other hope but to erase the memory of his life on planet earth.  With no dreams there will be no further disillusionment.	2002-06-18
US	51062975	R3OWQ9R0AE4I83	0812580109	848001248	Saturn's Race	Books	3	0	1	N	N	IRRATIONAL RACE	SATURNS RACE was an ambitious projectstitching together themes of human-fish brain augmentation, the ticking population bomb, manipulating fertility, stem cell therapy, AI, rationing the secret of longevity and other battles between the haves and have nots.  All in all, a very dystopian, rationality run amuck, future for our fair world. .<br />With talking squarks and scaliens (talking fish) the omniscient point of view must have been necessary but it made for a bumpy ride as the reader spent 15 seconds in one speakers head and a minute in the nexta bit like sliding down the portal in the movie, BEING JOHN MALKOVICH.  The reader never knew whose head he would be in next or how long the visit would last.  Some of the storys unevenness and bumpy ride may have been due to the long distant collaboration between Niven and Barnes.  I kept wondering which author I was reading.<br />I failed to grasp the motivation of many charactersespecially the amorphous Minsky/Saturn.  What would possess a man to turn himself into an aquatic alien creature in order to open the option of ruling the world.  I saw many of the characters as dancing marionettes being jerked by wireless strings.  Complexity of personality was talked about but the antagonist, Minsky/Saturn, took on a comic book character.  Whenever a hole in the plot appeared a new character would be plugged in to fill it. Chaz,the protagonist, extricated himself from problems by jacking into video war games using an interface plug installed in his own brain.  It was almost as if an AI computer program had plotted the story.	2002-05-27
US	51062975	RUT1CFU0JIVOP	0446345075	408613471	Stochastic Man	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Dice Not God's Game.	Silverberg sets this novel 25 years into the future, but alas the future overtook his dates.  His main character votes for predetermined futures, quoting Reverend Einstein that God would not so play dice.  Although there is a bit of dialogue on parallel universes and reversed arrows of time, this story lacks the elements that would hang it on the peg of science fiction.  Rather, it is a tale of psi and clairvoyance. Tales on future prediction and the death of free will belong in the genre of new age philosophy along with Edgar Cayce's.  Still a good read.	2002-04-08
US	51062975	R3RQ4FPZ4PD1P3	0441791107	913450789	Survey Ship (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Death where is thy sting?	Excellent character study of three gals and three guys (covering the gamut of sexual orientation) locked aboard space ship headed for nowhere.  Death is certain--but when?  The head game going on was why any of the six were picked from a class of forty.  Group psychology and future sociology study of humans cut off from mankind.  Only the outer space setting qualifies story to be labeled sci-fi.  Good read.	2002-04-04
US	51062975	R35HH3L0J9YKDA	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	2	3	28	N	N	WEIRD, ABSURD, NOT FUNNY	This might as well be a trip to nowhere.  Every chapter and every character is loaded down with the handicaps of futility and absurdity.  It seems like the writer was attempting a total escape from rationality.  One absurdity, that the entire evolution of mankind was directed to the end of delivering a part to a broken down space ship on Titan, simply leads the reader to the next absurdity.  Perhaps it was theater of the absurd, perhaps verbal LSD.<br />Earthlings, kidnapped from earth, are robotonized on Mars in order to invade earth in a futile suicide mission to unite all earthlings in a grand new selfless religion.  One absurdity followed by an even bigger absurdity.<br />The beautiful Sirens of Titan, three lovely women, were but statues in a pool who end up uselessly encrusted with green algae.  Is there anything in life to admire?  Perhaps but to appreciate it you must first lose it.	2002-04-02
US	51062975	R30O1GMC7KMQ6D	0345402960	427817907	The Moreau Factor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	FARCICAL CHUCKLES	What starts out like a comic strip Moreauville slowly draws the reader into a whirlpool dystopia--science gone mad. What happens when man develops intellectual, symbiotic relationships with genetically smart supercomputers? Chalker paints a computer, Ariel, who can design stem cells to either transform men into unique chimera animals or give them the forever sought after fountain of youth. The book leads the reader through some heavy plodding as the protagonists are pitted against some beasts from hades. The hoped for ending will not disappoint, however, if ever there was ever a contrived, spit in your eye, happy ending this is it.<br />PS: Congrats to Chalker for breaking sexual taboos in sci-fi by including the exploits of a bragging Italian Stallion and a Big Breasted Babe. Hopefully his crystal ball is smogged regarding the future thrills a church wedding can provide.	2002-03-15
US	51062975	R1Q4YZQ7CD9GLQ	1582970955	876141855	How to Get Your E-Book Published: An Insider's Guide to the World of Electronic Publishing	Books	4	4	6	N	N	All Aboard the Ebook Express.	Curtis & Quick have presented a valuable service to authors who would like to get published on the ww web. They add as many warnings as they do hype the hopes for new authors.  Although many people have lost their shirts betting on the growth of e-shopping, the authors cover all the bases for playing in this arena. ...<br />They add a list of all the internet sites that an author could hope to visit in his or her quest for publication. Their advice to open a personal web site and publicize it, for example, by adding a link in your four line e-mail signature is excellent. Very little is left out, for example, anyone can download the free Acrobat eBook Reader. Precise html web pages of many ebook publishers are supplied (even if these pages change the reader should be able to locate the new page). Regardless of how soon the info becomes outdated this is a five star effort.	2002-03-11
US	51062975	R1A2GVO2X496AU	0441113818	607093737	The Last Coin	Books	3	2	14	N	N	Blaylock Farce	J.P. Blaylock's THE LAST COIN defies genre identity--best to call it Blaylock farce.  It's not the sort of book I wanted to quit reading, hoping it might have a creative ending. Unfortunately there wasn't any actual ending beyond the disappearance of the villain and death of his murderous female partner. The search for the thirty pieces of silver Judas received for betraying Christ, the plot in its entirety, may still be in progress and someday some creature may collect them all and achieve immortality.  The fable is struck in such a realistic setting with such a lineup of unbelievably stupid characters that it's life blood must surely have been drawn from an actual human vein.  I'm surprised Hollywood hasn't snapped this one up, complete with the Hollywood ending.	2002-03-11
US	51062975	R2NNELRMP6PPKU	1400045053	37037227	The Deeper Wound: Recovering the Soul from Fear and Suffering, 100 Days of Healing	Books	3	11	88	N	N	Why read the obvious?	What makes the reviewer think one has to read a book to review it? Deekpak spends a lot of time on the TV book promotion trail talking about his latest masterpiece -- a cashing in on the tragedy of others sorrow. Now it seems the author has leaped from the specific tragedy of 9/11 to the generalized tragedy which inflicts the six billion souls on the globe. That he has found a new garb for his garu tongue adds little to the price of sweat in China. That world suffering never diminishes is probably the best evidence not to spend time with these heavily spaded up fields of soothing herbal salve. None of the readers can point to any specific, verifyable first aid this book has provided for their wounds. Writers who take out a lease on wearing the garu hat never offer any authenticity to their generalized claims of relieving life's agony. I think the five stars are to soothe their own pain.	2002-02-18
US	51062975	R1BRDD5VIF4VIY	1882968123	774556405	Gray Lensman (The Lensman Series, Book 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	GALACTIC JAMES BOND	Kim Kinnison is Doc Smith's James Bond. What fun the author must have had putting this one to ink. Wouldn't bond have enjoyed using a negasphere, black hole-like wave of hyperspace, to destroy one bad guy planet? The next bad guy hideout planet squashed like a walnut between two colliding planets. What a gas! Your hero loses both hands and feet but not to worry. Brilliant geneticists discover how to excite the dormant pineal gland. Soon all body parts are regenerated (like a starfish grows new points) and the hero is good as new. Just in time to let him marry his beautiful, red headed nurse. Hollywood, here comes Kim Kinnison!	2002-01-31
US	51062975	R2XJ6OTDYLO88J	0786866578	111516065	The Dictionary of the Future: The Words, Terms and Trends That Define the Way We'll Live, Work and Talk	Books	2	16	19	N	N	MIXED BAG	I suspect some of these reviewers gave themselves five stars for finishing the book. I don't know how one reviews this collection of terms. All I can say is here is a mixed bag of terms, half of which should never have survived the cut.  Way too many are already in current usage, (e.g., lucid dreaming, mother-of-all, rage, brownfields), way too many will never become generally used because they are nearly unpronounceable (e.g., participlaytion, bacterroria), others add nothing to existing terminology (e.g., boatominiums or floatominiums for house boats; relationshopping for relation shopping or relationship shopping--Is one very long word better than two short ones?) and there are far too many compounds, words strung together arbitrarily (e.g., socially irresponsible investing, self unfulfilling prophecies, driving Miss Daisy syndrome). Are they patronizing the reader?<br />I would like to have seen the [...] sites included in the index--there were at least fifty of them relied on and cited.  In fact, if the truth were known, the internet was the principal source of half of the thousand terms listed.  I would have liked to see the list cut in half, using only the most interesting terms (actual new terms, not those just abbreviated or strung together).  Also the authors organized the words into 35 idiosyncratic chapters (e.g., Figures of Speech; Fear, Frustration & Desire; New Behaviors). I would have liked to see half that number of Chapters (e.g., ego surfing was placed in New Behaviors instead of in Internet or Computers.  Three sections:  Computers, Internet and Technology might have been combined into one).  <br />As to the sections that tried to predict which new terms might catch on--really only a useless guessing game. These sections added very little to the book (e.g., fashion will become fash just as glamour has become glam is no doubt inevitable since both [...] and [...] are URL domain names now for sale on the internet). Dropping the last 3 letters to aword merely indicates how lazy some internet users are becoming.  There is nothing new in knowing that.	2002-01-20
US	51062975	R18PCS6KFWESUS	055357549X	662074373	Holy Fire (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	MIA SWALLOWED BY MAYA	STERLING does a great job of showing the pain of transition for his initial central character, Mia, as she struggles to become a real woman, Maya.  The Mia/Maya schizoid personality sustained conflict throughout the story. It works to the last line where Maya finally proves she has the Holy Fire to click her first true picture.  Ambiguity arises, however, as to whether her Holy Fire results from her longevity drug treatment or whether her own will power gave her a second chance to find her muse. The question is: what motivates the old Mia to become the young at heart Maya?  What did Sterling create in Maya?  Was she a drug sculptured android without a real soul?  Perhaps this was Sterling's underlying question--does Mia need a soul? <BR> <BR>The author's distinction between gerontocrats and the vivid, young generation is suspect because if the longevity treatments were actually working the older class would stay young at heart--not just young of skin. This doesn't happen.  So all the treatments to keep the body clicking are, in the main, cosmetic. Something else is missing here, most old people want to stay alive to enjoy their grand kids and great grand kids.  Here the old seem to grow into a narcissistic, power driven shell, abandoning their own kid's lives. However, the story works because it exposes the hidden disconnect between just living and the quality of life.<br />Sterling barely explains a lot of his jargon.  His drug, lacrimogen, sounds like ecstasy.  All it seems to do in the story is give the users a good cry!  I'll bet no reader understood why Mia/Maya almost died in the immersion scene due to the interaction of the futuristic drugs inside her body with those in the pool. One must ask Sterling who he thinks his readers are--chemists?<br />Sterling's projected growth in the medico-pharmaceutical industry is very thought provoking. It gives Sterling an opportunity to investigate the divide between the cult favoring longevity and the young x'ers.  His sharpest statement is made when he has the young would be artist girl take the swan dive off the building. \\"To hell with your longevity!\\" she sang as she splattered to the ground.	2001-12-31
US	51062975	R2AAMQATR71423	0380791854	299110267	Lathe of Heaven	Books	4	3	5	N	N	ENTANGLED IN A WEB OF DREAMS	Ursula shows the reader a milieu of parallel worlds.  She does this by speeding up her own fast changing world, using a unique switching device, the Dreams of George Orr.  The brilliant aspect of this story is that the reader also must live in a spider web world very much like the rapidly switching worlds of George Orr--one made up of man's collective dreams.  All aspects of the modern world stem from other minds and dreams: from phones to airplanes, satellites, space craft, space stations, aircraft carriers, submarines, TV, radios, computers, microwaves, the internet and you name it. Yes, our changes appear more slowly but do we have any more choice?  What madman's dream gave us 9-11-01?  We can lay back  on our technological spider web or try asserting free will to leave the web.<br /> The story was a great read but the Aldebaranians were totally superfluous.  These unexplained, unmotivated, godlike, alien characters failed to elucidate the mind of George Orr.  Perhaps they functioned as a framework when the author reached the end of her imaginative rope. Perhaps some dopey editor told her she needed aliens in the story?<br /> What the plot showed was that you can't have your cake and eat it too--if you want free will you can't have a dreamer as the designer of earthly society.  Were one to allow any credibility to George Orr, the dream designer, it would drive a wooden stake through the heart of free will. What did Ursula, the narrator, say about free will? \\"He (George Orr) was running the same risk the insane mind runs: the loss of the sense of free will.\\" (P.146) Without exerting free will Orr realizes that he had no real job--that his entire dream world was hollow.<br /> Ursula's unraveling of reality in THE LATHE OF HEAVEN paralleled Philip K. Dick's work that inspired this story. I wonder if Dick himself wasn't the model for the protagonist, George Orr?	2001-12-29
US	51062975	R1J7DNROUFK8C8	1584450428	440585726	Agent of Chaos	Books	4	3	6	N	N	ULTIMATE CHAOTIC ACT	The author opened each Chapter with a verse from George Markowitz, fictive author of the Theory of Social Empathy.  He draws his characters in this story to produce conflict between the theory of social order and of that of social chaos.  Sprinrad presents human emotions as  random factors serving the forces of chaos.  This is a very good job of using his characters to teach his anti-utopian ideal.  Basically he is telling his reader to stop fighting the entropic degradation of the universe--just lay back and enjoy it.  That one group committed suicide, as the Brotherhood of Assassins did, in order to accomplish their mission of universal planetary exploration was a paradox that enthralled the author.  Thus he labeled victory by suicide as the Ultimate Chaotic Act.	2001-12-25
US	51062975	R62PMMBLBYOXI	023477472X	334606286	The World of Null-A	Books	3	2	8	N	N	NULL-Sci-Fi	Have you ever read a story and then wondered what you had read?  That was my question after finishing this bedtime thriller. I really got interested in Gilbert's plight, not knowing who or what he was, not knowing why he had a second embryonic brain?  And I liked his encounters with asexual Pat Hardie--there always seemed to be hope for a romance there.  But I finished the story frustrated and feeling like I had been set up with the first book of a trilogy.  Frankly, I knew less about Gilbert on the last page than I did on the first.  Yes, we found out he was a pawn, like every character in the story, but what kind of chess game was this? Who were the real life players?<br />I never quite grabbed the non Aristotelian stuff and General Semantics also left me cold. Why would one write a novel instead of  an essay, to interest others in semantics.  Semantics is a word game.  Semantics worries about words, sets of words, and loses sight of the forest while examining the trees. And nothing in the story showed that Null-A characters were any better or worse off than non Null-A characters.  Null-A's were as good at being pawns as were the others. Anyway, it seemed like the Null-A characters were all undercover, pretending to be Aristotelian.  And no, I don't want the Author explaining the story in a belated Introduction. So I doubt I'll bother to read the sequel.	2001-12-09
US	51062975	R2YKMQVVE4CY0I	0806512288	571622357	Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick	Books	4	21	25	N	Y	MORE THAN YOU WANTED TO KNOW?	DIVINE INVASIONS is a herculean attempt to put the life of Phil K. Dick between the covers of one book.  That Dick wrote too many words is the problem for any biographer.  Which of the many millions  of words to select from revealed the truth and which disguised it?  The additional problem is that Dick described himself not as a novelist but as a \\"fictionalizing philosopher.\\"<br />In his search to reveal his own reality Dick describes one reality that surrounded him everyday, another reality that framed the everyday reality, and also his personal mental reality enclosing the everything, existing only in his mind that could not be shared.  Paul Williams' Forward gives Sutin the ultimate testimonial, \\"this is the man I knew.\\" Yet Sutin, like Paul Williams, was \\"too close to the subject matter,\\" and had difficulty separating the wheat from the chaff.  Whether his story is about Dick the man or about the plethora of fictive characters in Dick's works becomes clouded. What becomes clear is that Sutin did pass judgment on Dick in referring to him as \\"a hidden treasure of American literature.\\"  I doubt that Dick's many readers, after all, those who the tortured writer wanted to reach, would agree with this assessment.<br />The portrait of Sutin painted was not pretty. The author pulled no punches is showing Dick as a wife beater, adulterer, cradle robber, lech, suicide, hypochondriac, child abandoner, doper, tax evader, malingerer, fabricator and snitch.  What became clear was that when a relationship no longer fueled the fires of his personal solipsistic hell, Phil moved on.  But a nagging question remains: did the reader learn more about Phil K. Dick than he/she wanted to know?	2001-12-01
US	51062975	R1XGO729MTJ0BH	0674003365	805999617	The Misunderstood Gene	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Misunderstanding the Misunderstood Gene	First this is an excellent, clear and concise survey of recent breakthroughs in genetic microbiology. Don't hesitate to read this book because of anything I'm saying here. All the hullabaloo over the sequencing of the human genome (and others) is and was mere PR to get more funding and stock sales for the Genome Projects. As Morange points out, much of the hype has only confused the continuing issues of determinism and eugenics.<br />But I couldn't help concluding that the writer spent too much time repeating the hype.  The book is worth reading for the mouse and fuitfly knockout studies in themselves. How one missing gene and its offspring protein in the hypothalamus of a mother mouse dealt a death blow to her litter because it destroyed her insinct to nurse is an astonishing finding. Yet the Author treats it as a so-so event. In trying to complicate the process of gene determinism the Author, himself, seems to misunderstand the misunderstood gene. When a gene is singled out as producing one of many outcomes no one is trying to imply that the essential protein and cell organells do not play their important role in this outcome.<BR>For Morange to pretend he is adding great insight by pointing out that the human gene's protein is but one layer in a heirarchy of formational processes is quite redundant. Everyone knows the total matrix of the cell is essential to the expression of any gene.	2001-11-24
US	51062975	R1Z9D20V3B0EP1	0061054232	269567952	Quarantine	Books	3	0	5	N	N	The Ending Got Smeared	The premise of this story is that our everyday world of experience is underpinned with a series of smeared, multi-valued quantum-probable worlds.  My first whine is who picked the title, Quarantine--one having nothing to do with the story?  Next the importance of the Bubble asked the reader to stretch since man hasnt ventured outside the solar system--who, besides academia, cares if the star show flickers out?  The Author peeks into the future and finds that brains have been augmented with nanobug implants to make the wearer focused, loyal, strong, brave, this or that. I liked the cyber enhanced PI  but after awhile it seems like Nick was playing a chess game with his own head.  Also each implant enhancement came at the high cost of stifling human qualities.  Finally, I liked the secret Ensemble group but got lost when the new secret, splinter group, The Canon, declared war on the Ensemble.  The reader never finds out whether the original Ensemble groups goals were good or bad.<BR> <BR>Gregs story started out great but somewhere along the trail the theories of quantum physics, eigenstates, collapsed multiverses, and nanobot implants smeared up the ending, but good.  I thought I was on board until page 264 when Nick burns that clean hole in the bad guys head.  Then this tough guy PI turns baby-puss! It seems his brain implants are turned off and hes never ever killed anyone--my guts are squirming. Then the name of the story becomes pick your ending--the reader gets several alternative conclusions.  None of them are prepared for. At this point it doesnt really matter which ending you pick since they were all equally arbitrary. The ending was murkier than the probability waves that never seemed to collapse. Am I still smeared, Mama?<br />All in all it appeared that the storys multi-layers of quantum complexity were inserted for their own sake, rather than to allow characters to develop and work out their conflicts.	2001-11-21
US	51062975	R1R1JJQTYRW6UG	0738204366	418687847	The Physics Of Consciousness: The Quantum Mind And The Meaning Of Life	Books	4	2	6	N	N	ROLL OF QUANTUM DICE	E H Walker, who set out to show the meaning of life--ended up proving nothing.  Pondering the firing synapses in the brain he writes on P 266, \\"Our will images are so dim compared to those of our daily conscious existence that they are almost always lost in the torrent of our consciousness stream.\\" What he ends up illustrating is that man's free will is nil, all but non existent.  Further, he ignores the fact that the genome produced with the fertilization of each generation of human eggs express only the roll of quantum dice.<br />Walker's stab at unveiling a deity clothed in quantum mechanical robes was no more successful than a dozen previous attempts to crown a secular God.  What is the difference between calling the brain a bag of neurons  and calling it 50 million dancing bits per second TV screen? He is correct in saying that most all the bps input is noise but his 50,000 bps \\"will stream\\" is nonsense. If I have but one/ one thousandth control in my universe of noise how can I push one button and turn the TV off? How can meditation enable the practitioner to dampen out most all the outer noise?<br />If Walker had spent the 100 pages he took memorializing Merilyn, his long lost love, with laying a foundation for his ideas, the contents would have been far more convincing.  For example he fails to even mention entangled photons. Walker fails to see that the \\"measurement\\" or \\"consciousness\\" problems are mere words invented in a bygone era to conceal man's ignorance.  Consciousness is an aspect of the raw materials out of which man is constructed. To locate consciousness in the firing of synapses, in tunneling electrons or in the brain severs these words from the total picture of which man is but a microscopic part.  Men like Walker invent new words, concepts and dimensions as they find a use for them, e.g. Einstein found a fourth dimension and space-time when it suited his equations. But Walker's attempt to quantify the realm of the unvisualizable mind was but blowing pretty bubbles in his own brain-mind.<br />In spite of the above reflections, Walker gave my super firing synapses a remarkable workout.	2001-11-21
US	51062975	R2EMMMWHPUBSHT	006092554X	732091569	The Art of Dreaming	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A HALLUCINOGENIC MYSTERY	The `dreaming' in the title of this work refers to a hallucinogenic induced trance that Carlos terms the `second attention'. While `dreaming' one develops the skill to see the body as composed of luminous energy filaments. This allows the dreamer to discern whether inhabitants of the dream are self generating or merely virtual constructs of the mind. Carlos depicts four gates of `dreaming'-- passing each gate allows the subject greater and greater control of the visions he or she encounters.<br />In one hallucinogenic trip Carlos discovers an Alice character as in ALICE IN WONDERLAND. First he sees a ball of blue energy he calls the Blue Scout who then changes into an eight year old girl.  Similar to Alice using her magic mushroom ritual to enlarge and shrink herself when she became trapped, Carlos uses his ritual to extract the girl from the shadow world. <br />Nowhere in this story does Carlos ever tell the reader that his material is a story.  Castaneda makes of himself a character, Carlos, a man in search of the mysteries of becoming a sorcerer.  The conflict is between Carlos, a man who wants all the answers, and the guru or nagual, don Juan, who demands that Carlos discover his own answers.  Carlos is pretty much under don Juan's spell and control.  Don Juan makes Carlos ingest a considerable array of hallucinogenics  (peyote, mescaline and magic mushrooms) to keep his assemblage point or his point of view fluid.<br />Near the end of the story the conflict shifts to include a woman in the church, the death defier.  She is a chameleon character who can become whoever she intends to be. She can recreate virtual realms and then step into them.  She takes Carlos past the fourth gate of `dreaming.' The reader continues on hoping to determine if Carlos can discover what is on the other side of the final gate. Carlos finishes the story as confused as he began it. In the end the reader along with Carlos finds nothing there--there is no there, there.	2001-09-24
US	51062975	R2E51AGRZ5Y367	0425073149	676498654	Eyes Of Heisenberg	Books	4	3	3	N	N	WANT A PRFECT BABY?	What with the stem cell-cloning debate raging Herberts (1965) EYES OF HEISENBERG might find some new readers. Interesting that it took but 40 years for the authors old material to hit our front pages. Now that genetics is catching up with Franks tale we should give him credit for what he got right. Exogenesis (growing embryos in a vat) could be right around the corner. Certainly there is much talk of modifying the morula (those first dozen or so germinated cells) while it still lies fertilized and growing in the petri dish. Herbert lists a dozen enzymes used by his genetic engineers to cut the DNA-RNA in a proper fashion. This is all standard practice today. The long living masters, the Optimen, in this tale, set millenniums in the future, have conditioned their genetic engineers to kill any embryo who may be immune to death. This is to maintain absolute control over their subjects, the Folk. Two of their subjects, the Durants, are a couple who are given the precious right to reproduce (to allow their sperm and egg to unite in a vat). But when their geneticist, Potter, sees a new mutation in his microscope, one that would produce immunity to death, he refuses to follow the Optimen rule. He says, I cannot kill it. It is too beautiful. What Potter sees in the Durant embryo is one who could father a new race of long livers outside the Optimens control--the perfect baby. The origin of the flash of mutating energy is left to the readers imagination. Where Herbert must get the real credit is for reinforcing the role evolution has played in the development of mankind. Unlike todays neurophysiologists and geneticists who see the brain as a bag of neurons and the genome as a twisted loop of genes, Herbert presented the Durant morula, as floating in the quantum sea of energy. It must be from the quantum jitters that all change in the species arises. The Optimen sought to eradicate Heisenbergs uncertainty and evolution from the species.  This tale tells us that attempts to fool mother natures plan for mutation &amp; evolution are, indeed, foolhardy.	2001-08-28
US	51062975	R6HX6191DOX0J	0062732765	149070062	Flatland/Sphereland (Everyday Handbook)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	MANY-VIEWS-LAND	Most reader-reviewers were equally amazed on first reading Abbott's Flatland. But the point of the book is lost within all the excited verbiage. The point Abbott attempted was to show one's  physical world (in however many dimensions) need not limit one's view of such world. The point was partially spoiled by lifting A Square out of his Flatland into Sphereland where A Square then magically developed the 3-D vision that real humans come equipped with. This should not have been the case--Square's vision should have remained the same  as it was in Flatland.  The main aspect of the Flatland story is that the brain is able to supersede information presented to it by the crude senses. Square was willing to go to prison to stay loyal to his intellectual knowledge. His Flatland jailers would always stay true to their visual sense data.<br />The illustrations for zero, one and two dimensions are now a bit outmoded.  With string theory the little one dimensional loops of vibrating energy (said to compose the zoo of sub-atomic particles) are woven together to produce not only the second and third dimension but also the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th dimensions. Alas, there is no theory to support Abbott's Pointland of zero dimensions--this sounds like a spiritual concept.  A modern day Abbott is needed to elucidate string theory for the man on the street.<br />The two dreams A Square had, revealing the narrowness of the perspectives in Lineland and Pointland, were the most interesting part of the story.  As he slept A Square's brain was in contact with the Matrix Data Base that showed him how adamantly the inhabitants of Lineland and Pointland clung to their simple perspectives. Thus, A Square saw the futility of maintaining his Flatland point of view.	2001-08-07
US	51062975	R2MX07NEGPAJ5A	0679747877	207247391	The Shifting Realities of Philip K. Dick: Selected Literary and Philosophical Writings	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Universe Was His Sandbox	THE SHIFTING REALITIES OF PKD is a perfect title for this material. It was in his speeches to college students that PKD exposed his mental terrain--holding little back. Here he discussed his two obsessions: What is reality? &amp; What constitutes an authentic human? This material shows how Dick used his sci-fi novels to poke holes in simpler cosmologies.  Dick made the universe his own sandbox. <br />In THE ANDROID &amp; THE HUMAN he says that free will may be an illusion. Were humans also controlled by tropisms that are so evident in the growth of plants?  He sounded out his greatest fear as The reduction of humans to mere use--men made into machines, ... what I regard as the greatest evil imaginable.  Dick saw the time to come when a writer would be stopped not by unplugging his electric keyboard but by someone unplugging the man himself.<br />In MAN, ANDROID &amp; MACHINE Dick found a hopeful theory at the end of his dark tunnel. In this essay he discussed Teilhard De Chardins Noosphere, composed of holographic &amp; informational projections in a unified and continually processed Gestalt,--a summation of the globes  intelligence. Dick never worried about the label made in a laboratory.... the entire universe is one vast laboratory, he writes. Here he also lays bare his own reality--one composed of a series of crystallized dreams. He cites Ursula Le Guins THE LATHE OF HEAVEN as his model for understanding the nature of our world. He adds: I myself have derived much of the material for my writing from dreams.  PKD challenged the reader to pry beneath the facade of  daily existence and  knead the silly putty of the dream world into some recognized shape.	2001-08-04
US	51062975	R3VMXDKDRS4V4L	0881843520	138403429	Time Out of Joint	Books	5	0	0	N	N	REALITY OUT OF JOINT	In this time tested fable Dick gives us a character who saw through the social conditioning that kept him insane.  One of the gatekeepers to Ragal Gumms psuedo-city, Bill Black, was terrified that the psychic hero, Gumm, would recover from his insanity. By turning Gumm into an early warning radar mechanism Black kept the world safe from the moon launched weapons. Returning Gumm to his humanity would end the Where-Will-the-Little Green-Man-Be-Next Contest and Earths ability to defend against incoming moon based missiles.<br />Dicks obsession with the two questions: What is real? and What is an authentic human? were both answered in this novel, TIME OUT OF JOINT. When Gumm stopped believing in the artificial city, constructed around him to keep him insane, he discovered his real world. When he broke out of his fantasy land and returned to his old self he became a authentic human.    Dick tried to understand the dissolution of his own reality much like Gumm watched a solid structured hot dog stand dissolve into colorless molecules, leaving only a slip of paper reading SOFT-DRINK STAND.  After watching this happen Gumm remarks, I think were living in some other world than what we see..... As Afterword writer Lou Stathis put it, PKD came to see all things as a unified energy field in which we are minuscule capsules entwined with tiny eddy-like pockets of wave-form energy manifesting itself in our personal realities.(P. 263).<br />When PKDs earthly reality dissolved  in 1982 no doubt he went to that other world that he couldnt quite grasp while here. Is he now smiling at the attention and turmoil his little slips of paper have produced in this pseudo world? As for this little slip of a novel--definitely a must-read.	2001-08-03
US	51062975	RS0O064YD25OE	0671698540	290260224	The IDENTITY MATRIX	Books	4	12	13	N	N	BODY SWITCHING FUN & GAMES	If some alien should need your body in which to transport its jellyfish self, don't fight it.  Chalker describes these body snatching aliens and also invents another black-budget FBI type organization, the IMC, to combat the aliens.  Hoorah! The IMC develops computized techniques for placing one's identity  on a matrix-cube for future use. Furthermore, the matrix-cube might be modified to control how a person thinks. <br />If you can follow and remember the body switching that goes on in this story you are a Chalker fan. The author was obviously just having fun when he switched the identity matrix of his  adult lesbian character into the body of  a 13 year old Indian gal. Is that child abuse?  Obviously carried away by this body-identity switching, Chalker downloads the matrix of a middle age geek professor first into the the body of a young, chic blonde, and then finally replaces the professor's matrix  with that of a computer constructed nymphomaniac prostitute/stripper.  If only real characters were so easy to construct. I think the story will be easier to follow (swallow) if you read the 8 page report at the end titled Operation Triple Play.<br />But the process or identity matrix construction, downloading and switching ID's was original to this reader. In answer to the ancient perplexing question of:  where is the soul?  Chalker gives an easy answer--in the ID matrix-cube.	2001-07-30
US	51062975	R18LWVWA88OREN	0822211548	461722971	Tiny Alice	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	Albee's Puppet Show	In TINY ALICE  Albee presented a dilemma between belief in God and belief in the Church. The author demanded as much from his audiences as he did from himself in writing TINY ALICE. Albee's audacious comment that the meaning of this play was quite clear without further exposition sounded to me like tongue in cheek.<br />Key to understanding this play is how the reader interprets the on stage model of the castle. The model is seen as the original and controlling entity while the big castle replica is  merely the stage on which the  puppet show unwinds. It is the author's unseen character within the model, Tiny Alice, who directs the scripts for Butler, Lawyer, Cardinal and Miss Alice.  All must play their roles strictly as written..<br />Albee viewed the Church's authority as built on a faulty foundation. The Church interprets God but refuses to create God. The Author designs a conspiracy between Butler, Lawyer, Cardinal and Miss Alice to strip Julian, a lay representative of the Church, of his beliefs and soul. Julian believes that the true God exists apart from man's interpretation of God.  The Church Cardinal deliberately sacrifices Julian to both gain the offered two billion dollars and rid the church of this heretic. Each character has his/her role to play to shatter the protective shell surrounding Julian's soul.  Miss Alice plays the short term, sham bride to Julian. The Butler's role is to falsely befriend Julian.  The Lawyer gets to both unmask the Cardinal's sanctity and shoot Julian dead. Albee's  view includes revealing the personal greed of the Cardinal in order to unmask the false communal authority that the Church exercises.  Albee shows the Church's primary tenet to be the interpretation of God to its lay members.<br />The reader sees that Butler, Lawyer, Cardinal and Miss Alice are but will-less puppets being dangled by the Author's invisible strings. The only character with free will is Tiny Alice, i.e. Albee.  Albee's premise is that to worship a God one must first create one. Julian's attempt to evade this truth first puts him in an asylum and finally gets him a bullet  in the stomach.  Where is Julian's God as he lies dying, praying to unseen Tiny Alice in the castle model?  Albee shows that man's mind is but a tool whose function is to represent; man has no tool to access or to know God directly as Julian had wished to do.  Death is the only reality to solve Julian's dilemma . The play ends with the lights in the model castle flickering out as Julian's life is extinguished.  The world, both substance and form, is engulfed in total blackness.	2001-07-10
US	51062975	R3TZPCKOKA91R7	1569245991	121607455	Synchronicity : Through the Eyes of Science, Myth and the Trickster	Books	2	17	47	N	N	Throw Out a Life Line	This book must have had a stormy editing life. I see no mention of one  listed author, a Robin Robertson, on my copy.  Also, the CONTENTS list doesn't even mention the sometime added Appendix III which is a piece, titled The PSI-FIELD HYPOTHESIS, written by E. Laszlo, (by far the most interesting piece in the book). Laszlo is identified only in the foot note.<br />The correct title for this piece should have been THE TRICKSTER'S MANY FACES. Chapter Six which it titled The Meaning of Synchronicity is again all about Hermes (one form of the Trickster),  The Trickster at Play, and The Divine Trickster. Their thesis is another attempt at presenting a secular Deity by authors who have all but run out on the rational. Read some of their curtain call:  \\"Like the flea, we must eventually give up our effort to penetrate the impenetrable and surrender to a reality which we cannot master but to which we must submit.  In the end, to be honest to our exploration of synchronicity we must ourselves surrender to it. ... Through surrender we learn to move with the rhythms that flow through our existence and in so doing open ourselves to the wellsprings of life that are the gift of the divine Trickster.\\" (P 144).  Thankfully, this was the end of their work. All that was missing was an \\"Amen.\\"  Read this book with diminished expectations.  The Authors were almost DROWNED by such materials as they dared to swim in. I felt like throwing them a life line.	2001-06-27
US	51062975	R3D1ARHBZSJI92	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Existential Addiction	Find a couple hours in your busy life to read this book--yes, everyone.  In this very existential story, the Stranger, Camus shines a bright floodlight into the soul of modern man.  Told in the first person by the Stranger awaiting death by the State's guillotine, it is obvious by the very telling of the story that the man was never so put to death.  It is also obvious that the Stranger was totally indifferent to whether he was or was not put to death.<br />The death of the Stranger's mother sounds the breakfast bell for his own demise.  Later at the beach murder scene the Stranger undergoes a Paul-on-the-Road-to-Damascus-like enlightenment.  The Stranger describes this event very poetically.  He sees a shaft of light shoot upward from the steel blade of the Arab's knife.  He sees \\"Cymbals of the sun clashing on my skull and ... the keen blade of light flashing up from the knife, scarring my eyelashes and gouging into my eyeballs.\\"  Next, \\"the sky cracked in two, from end to end, and a great sheet of flame poured down through the rift.\\" Had the reader seen what the Stranger saw he too may have emptied the pistol bullets into the poor Arab.  \\"And each successive shot was another loud, fateful rap on the door of my undoing.\\"  Beginning with the  murder he was \\"through with the unreal years of my life.\\" <br />The Priest visits the cell and forces his trite message upon the prisoner. The Father asks, \\"how do you picture life after death?\\" The Stranger wants very little.  He answers, \\"A life in which I can remember this life on earth.  That's all I want of it.\\" The prisoner's certainty of death was totally sufficient, it was  something he could get his teeth into and that was far better than a brittle, fragile belief in God.  The torture of waiting for his own death emptied him of hope, thus allowing him to lay \\"his heart open to the benign indifference of the universe.\\" Thus sharing, so brotherly, his fate with the universe made him realize that \\"I'd been happy, and that I was happy still.\\"  In death the prisoner would attain public recognition of his indifferent life.  \\"All that remained to hope was that on the day of my execution there should be a huge crowd of spectators and that they should greet me with howls of execration.\\"	2001-03-05
US	51062975	R16D2NFDCALILX	0671876651	819376421	Mars Plus	Books	3	0	4	N	N	INTERNET GROWS A FACE	This book is an oldie but it's amazing how man continues to plod on toward a Martian landing as did the characters in this story.  I kept wondering for 17 chapters who the  narrator,&quot;We,&quot; was who told the story? In a cutesie, laconic way this question was sort of answered in Chapt 18, the four page ending. I won't, but I don't think it would spoil anything by revealing the ending, in fact, not knowing the &quot;We&quot; identity sort of spoiled the book for me. I like to know who is telling me a story. Still, much was attempted for the 1970's so I will only spank the author with the brevity of this review.	2001-02-27
US	51062975	R18AI3QSXJX3AP	0345430751	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	4	3	4	N	N	DOOMSDAY FEAST	I must give Baxter four stars for even attempting a doomsday script. End-of-the-universe stories present little personal edification or box office value. However, this is as much a cosmology textbook as it is a novel.  Rewarding as it may be to plow through,  it would be best to read the ten books and articles mentioned in the Afterword before settling down to read the story.  Unmotivated, abstruse theories on cosmology and physics spout out from several characters none of who survive to the ending. Real obstacles to enjoying the story.  It is one matter to frame a story with hard science and theory but Baxter tries to use this story to explore too many speculative (he says real) topics such as black holes, false vacuums, probabilistic doomsday, Feynman radio waves from the future, quark nuggets, proton decay and on and on and on. All this is at the expense of developing characters and keeping the action moving.<br />To go downstream in time was to travel into the future.  The gimmick used to save the principle character Reid from his doomsday was to fling his dead body through the \\"blue portal\\"--\\"downstream,\\" where he is reconstructed.  Just another Alice's Through the Looking Glass device.  (Yes, he died, but his spectral self is downstream or up above watching.) As to narration, too frequent shiftings from the first person to the third person for no apparent reason are problematic. For example, the narrator reveals Emma's innermost thoughts but when the crying \\"Blue Kids\\" embrace her we read: \\"And maybe she{Emma} was  weeping too; it was hard to tell.\\" The reader often wonders who is telling this story -- I still don't know. <br />As long as his characters stayed within one time frame  I could identify and care about them, but when they were flung into the future or brought back from the dead they became like disembodied mouths spouting gobbledygook. When a character died this didn't mean finality because she might be raised  from the dead ten pages later.  Partsof the story became unattached, unframed and incomprehensible even to the fictive characters involved.  I got the idea there was enough material printed here for a trilogy.  What I found myself reading was the Author's notebook for a novel.  All this is not to say that a physics professor wouldn't find the story a much easier and enjoyable read than I did.	2001-02-15
US	51062975	R2XUI587G1DOBS	0425119653	667355645	Mutation	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Robin's Procreative Nightmare	This story should be on the required reading list for microbiologists and fertility specialists who are promising monthly to clone a human.  This story says tampering with human genes might entangle one in the jaws of a freakish mutant.  I couldn't quite suspend disbelief for the ten year old monster-boy who dishes out death with the ease of changing a pair of  his sneakers.  I had problems with the Dad, a scientist who kept denying the clues of his son's complicity faster than he could turn them up.  Mom was believable and after what she had to endure one could believe she will have the guts to inject the new found epilogue monster with a well measured dose of death.  All in all, MUTATION  asks the reader to swallow a regular horse sized pill before reaching the final exit.	2001-02-02
US	51062975	R33J6STA15X005	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	3	4	6	N	N	GENIE IN THE SPHERE	The SPHERE's best recommendation is that it is still being read and reviewed 14 years after publication....here goes: Is it an accident that the author began his story with 10 characters, then whittled them down to the mandatory three?  This ten-little-Indian story was so obviously \\"well made\\" that I saw it coming from the first death.  The deaths got so frequent that when the main caretaker, Captain Barnes, disappeared the author never even bothered to explain the cause of death.  He was just gone.  Did anyone care?  I know I didn't. What hurt the tale is that the demise of these poor seven buggers added an extra hundred pages .<br />I gave my stars for Crichton's grapple with the unknown -- the powers conveyed to his three heroes when they dared to enter the sphere. The sphere was a new version of the genie in the bottle.  Instead of rubbing three times one just visualized the door opening.  The power of the mind to \\"manifest\\" material creatures out of the quantum foam is fascinating.  The author's explanation that such power lies hidden within all of us leaves much to be added.  The screwy ending of using the genie wish to forget everything that happened, also erasing the tapes, kinda' made the whole story irrelevant both to the story characters and to me, one reader.  A cop out--big time.  This is a modern fairy tale dressed in scientific garb.  Nice try, but no cigar!	2001-01-11
US	51062975	R5CI4GGHVJEM2	1573225649	928920669	Seven experiments that could change the world	Books	3	29	70	N	N	SCIENTIFIC SHADOW BOXING	Neither a skeptic nor a believer in science, the author was searching for an opponent to box with -- more like friendly sparring.  His theory of morphic resonance states that all matter and energy is governed or shaped  by some sort of  evolutionary habit or cumulative memory.  If his  perspective were broader he would fit in with David Bohm and other science  mystics, but Rupert chose to fence himself in the \\"little science\\"  surrounding pet dogs, homing pigeons, migrating birds, termite colonies,  phantom limbs, evil eyes, and the  placebo effect. Why Rupert thinks that  clearcut experimental results in these areas of anecdotal, imaginative tall  tales would support his morphic field theory, I haven't a clue. What is  more likely is that these animals and insects have the hidden ability to  detect Gaia's gravitational curved space (much like air and ship LORAN  navigators read lines of position).<br />The author was forever hinting that  chaos theory, Jung's collective unconscious or other ideas would someday  reveal the whole story without telling what that would gain us (for  instance, if we accepted that the fundamental constants were slightly  variable).  Although I would encourage new viewpoints  such as morphic  fields to shape the matter of the universe, I was left with the impression  that this writer bit off way more than his dog could chew.	2000-07-23
US	51062975	R3EIGPC0P4PPN0	0465013767	582660840	A Universe Of Consciousness: How Matter Becomes Imagination	Books	4	38	48	N	Y	WORLD KNOT UNTIED &amp; RETIED	The Authors ambitious attempt to carve their niche in the universe of consciousness was blighted by too much new jargon: dynamic core hypothesis, functional cluster, reentry, degeneracy and non representational memory.  They seemed to be saying that the firing of neurons paints reality in the  brain like an artist paints on a canvas.  However, half of reality still  lies hidden beneath the brain's view.   One can't define their way to new  discovery. This new terminology shows their impatience with what past  neuroscientists have written (which I share), but it in no way moves us up  the mountain.<br />Most of the book was mentally stimulating but the jargon in  Part V, Untangling the Knot, became a hair ball that wouldn't cough up. By  their own admission the knot would not come untied. It quickly gets  tiresome to hear how brain image resolution has not advanced to the point  of solving the neuron's place in unraveling consciousness.  The book was  thick with tautological niceties such as \\"consciousness is the ability of  being conscious of being conscious.\\" Their attempt to divide the subject  into primary consciousness and higher order consciousness was equally  arbitrary. For me, re-tieing the mind-body knot in a \\"less tangled form,\\"  didn't pull the little red wagon forward very much.  Still the authors  paved the way for genetic, sub-neuron investigations that may well untie  the knot. There is a mountain to scale here and it does little good to  pretend you are near the top.  But yes, the hardcover was well worth  its  reasonable price.	2000-06-22
US	51062975	R1ZMBH0QXZL2FK	0684801582	338168936	Astonishing Hypothesis: The Scientific Search for the Soul	Books	2	13	23	N	N	WorkinProgress -- groping through the jungle	Sympathy for F Crick is what I felt reading this tome. His best metaphor was the conductor of the orchestra -- trying to show that brain functions needs both parallel and serial processing.  Here is a famous man who got  the Nobel for discovering DNA and then here, totally ignores DNA in the  functioning of the brain.  So obsessed with his title and his bag of  neurons which enable man to see visually that he totally missed the  submicroscopic hidden realm.  Also no mention of the gaseous, non-synaptic  neurotransmitter, nitric oxide (NO).  His intent was admirable -- to pin  the search down to a hard wired brain that was available for  experimentation, but what if there are wireless signals or gaseous (NO)  signals involved? He had nothing to say to the blind baby with his  pronouncements of consciousness now and visual cortex uber all.  I wish I  had a nickel for every time Crick says \\"further work/experiment is needed\\"  or \\"facts are not completely clear.\\" Unfortunately academic humility  doesn't make a good book.  Definitely a work in progress that didn't have  to be published yet.	2000-06-16
US	51062975	RICE6JSL5Z86U	046507278X	508000247	How Brains Think: Evolving Intelligence, Then And Now (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	ALL THE BRAIN'S A STAGE	Coming  attractions on Calvin's marquee are  AI blobs of super intelligence and since they need not move nor eat I guess one could pull one along like a little red wagon.  Author sets some kind of mark for  hubris and keeps plugging his next book, CEREBRAL CODES. Although he admits  that improved brain imagery would be required to test his ideas, he sounds  certain these little details don't matter much.  What are his ideas?  He  imports them wholly from darwinism: there must be competition in the cortex  to account for changes and new ideas; the winner must have a copying  mechanism in the brain (similar to RNA and DNA) to sort out the chaos.  He  brings on stage a Greek chorus of neurons to throw out the losers.<br />My  biggest problem with the book was Calvin's idiosyncratic choice of terms.   He seems to demand some potion of free will in the neuron's selection of  input signals;  he sees no value in random selection nor mutation.   Intelligence he sees as \\"good guessing.\\" Cerebral codes he sees as the  winners of the intense competition over what will be copied in short term  memory.  He thinks Penrose's quantum field or\\"microtubles of neuron's  cytoskeleton\\" is just another word for spirit -- the ghost in the machine,  but his own stealth candidate is \\"dynamic patchwork quilt\\" of patterns.  I  enjoyed his metaphors but they need not conflict with Penrose's.  What he  has done with his cerebral codes is encrypt his own common reductionism of  portraying man's mind as just a bag of neurons -- like his buddy Francis  Crick (THE ASTONISHING HYPOTHESIS).  There is nothing new in this book  except new terminology of which we are already stuffed.	2000-06-12
US	51062975	R31VL648FVQ0UK	0060916966	855329381	Turbulent Mirror: An Illustrated Guide to Chaos Theory and the Science of Wholeness	Books	5	25	26	N	N	IGNORE CHAOS AT YOUR PERIL	Very well thought out survey of chaos theory presents a metaphorical mirror as a means to magnify and project into view the hidden world of turbulence.  The advent of the computer has brought chaos and fractals out  of the closet.  Here the authors teach the reader how to navigate in the  turbulent world from the submicroscopic realms to the distant galaxies. The  authors dish up a huge concept list:  fractal dimensions, strange  attractors, holograms, soliton bubbles, bifurcation,  quantum phase  locking, coevolution of species and the earth as Gaia -- all in an attempt  to teach the reader the folly of allowing the part/whole dichotomy to rule  your perception of the universe. <br />The book is a stark attack on those the  authors term reductionists -- those who seek answers in breaking the whole  into ever smaller parts. The authors' pet writers are David Bohm, Lynn  Margulis, and Llya Prigogine but they toss in another hundred ideas for  irregular stepping stones to get where they are going.  Where is that?   They composed an  evangelical message -- that man now has the tools and  knowledge to step through Alice's Looking Glass into an entirely new and  mystical perception of the whole. They see chaos as a source of future  evolution and life. <br />I give the authors a high mark for original thought.   Although using  a hundred other science writers to frame their ideas, they  direct the reader to go beyond existing theories and strike a path for the  center of the turbulent mirror.  The diagrams and illustrations also were  very helpful. They pictured the brain as a strange attractor, with thought  arbitrating between the two realms of order and chaos. My favorite metaphor  was the slime mold which, when food gets scarce, merges from being a  collection of individual cells to a collective entity moving across the  forest floor.  This was to show an example of quantum phase locking which  \\"could provide a bridge joining classical, nonlinear reality with linear,quantum reality\\" (P. 188). Great Two Thousand year Philosophy.	2000-06-04
US	51062975	R3N3PRT7R3MV53	1583487409	59545194	Genome: The Story of the Most Astonishing Scientific Adventure of Our Time--The Attempt to Map All the Genes in the Human Body	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Genetic Hocus-Pocus	Excellent survey of 2 decades of progress in genetics, 1970-1990.  The updated part of the book is a 15 page Epilogue, hardly doing justice to the past explosive decade. Authors put great conflict and human interest into  their stories, e.g., the couple, each carrying the recessive gene for  cystic fibrosis, had each given it to both of two daughters before they  realized they were playing genetic casino. They \\"realized their gamble only  after they've already lost the bet.\\"   The questions of whether to offer a  new gene test for a serious malady when no treatment was available were  especially troubling to the researchers. <br />Authors present a scary picture  for the future role of medicine and physicians. Doctors will have to order  genetic profiles to avoid malpractice.  In pharmacogenetics, drug companies  will take one's blood to develop personalized medicine  to avoid side  effects.  The profile will allow them to peek into your health, your  personality, your IQ potential and physical skills.  With that genetic  profile they can, with their pals the insurance companies, become  tyrannical Big Brothers.<br />Authors try to raise red flags about future  genetic discrimination. They don't seem to realize how much of current  discrimination is already based on genetics. Society has been coping with  discrimination for centuries. They mention the probable arising of a  biological underclass (perhaps like the caste of untouchables in India?)  and see that a genetic profile could become a scarlet letter following one  throughout one's life. Employers would get the data and make a group  unemployable.  But aren't there already laws protecting the handicapped? In  the near future most everyone will be seen with defective genes and  partially handicapped.<br />Perhaps, however, Author's concern about a  hereditary meritocracy is just genetic hocus-pocus.  One's current  illusions of choice and one's ignorance of the current genetic basis to  behavior are likely to continue. The realization that one typo in the  replication of a gene can cause a defect or disease is not likely to change  one's current illusions of self control. The vast number of 3 billion  interrelated nucleotides will more than likely always keep both science and  lay people amazed at the complexity of human life.	2000-05-28
US	51062975	R32T78S7BSKNMM	9994911244	523960316	Brain Child	Books	5	5	5	N	N	IMMORTALITY AS NONSENSE	I'm flabbergasted that this book is out of print.  Just as the superbrain clone characters in his fascinating novel died without heirs, so must have George Turner.  This work is like a sequel to Huxley's BRAVE NEW WORLD.   Set 50 years into our future, our current Genome Project makes this work  totally current.  A bureaucratic test tube manipulation of human brain  cells produces three sets of quadruplets (Group A, B &amp; C) each with a  different and genius combination of mental qualities: one computational,  one artistic/creative, and one power driven. These three sets of characters  grow up to become mechanistic characters who cannot fit in with the  barnyard IQs that spawned and surrounded them.<br />Although their limited  ranges of intellect liken them to idiot savants, Turner uses the clones  experiences like a scalpel to reveal the current  foolishness of man's real  life hopes to genetically engineer mankind. Turner's intellectual  spokesman, clone Arthur,  sums the whole field of cloning up nicely, to  paraphrase:  since evolution is based on death and decay so that mutations  can continue to replace ineffective life forms and adapt to climatic  change, extended life spans would result in species stagnation. Man's mind  must evolve slowly to fit his surroundings.  The manipulation of IQ genes  or muscle genes  will produce only misfits.  Sudden genetic changes become  reproductive dead ends. To prevent its misuse, Clone Arthur chooses not to  trust mankind with the knowledge of genetic topology discovered by one of  the power driven C group of clones.<br />The most creative Sci-fi device was  in implanting visual/audio biochips to bio-wire the eyes and ears of the  narrator, David Chance, to become a human camcorder -- imprinting the  sights and sounds on a molecular layer inside of his skull which could be  later played back like a tape recording.  This idea gives a whole new slant  to where human memory might reside. The brain may be merely a recordingdevice and consciousness only a playback of that recording.	2000-05-24
US	51062975	R1ULDWG7WBMZ97	0140145346	520408312	The Emperor's New Mind	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Want to go fishing for non-algorithmic thought?	Penrose is inviting the reader to a weekend fishing expedition. He hopes to catch a whopper and get a group snapshot -- refutation of hard AI. The bait he offers is rather strange: quasicrystaline analogy of dendritic  spine growth and contraction; a Platonic, timeless world of mathematical  truth; something he calls CQG (Correct Quantum Gravity) with its one  graviton criterion and two quantum processes he calls U and R.  If  you  swallow this strange bait then you are hooked and don't blame anyone else  when you wake up sizzling in frying pan oil.<br />On the plus side Penrose  throws caution to the wind in trying to pin down the ever elusive human  consciousness. He constructs for the reader a mental mirror in which to  view the Tower of Babel world of Artificial Intelligence.  However, in  trying to use the child's view metaphor positively he makes the mistake of  rattling off a string of \\"whys\\" that can never be answered.  Setting up the  mind-body dichotomy in any form presents only a chicken-egg question.  If  consciousness is located in the reticular formation of the brain, why  there? As to memory -- just because the sound of music can be stored on  magnetic tape, the sounds replayed are only virtual or copycat sound from  the real, live orchestra. The brain may be merely a recording device and  consciousness only a playback of this recording.<br />Penrose is very puzzled  and perplexed that his geometrically formulated ideas don't translate well  into words. Penrose laments that consciousness may not possess the active  skills (free will) and is left with merely a spectator role. His  speculations lead the reader into the quantum vacuum foam, to a head full  of constantly emerging sub-quantum singularities or submicro-wormholes,  framing human consciousness as a model for the mind of a deity.  Amen.	2000-05-18
US	51062975	R2S498SF1FRQFX	0140282025	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	2	27	41	N	N	STOP KURZWEIL'S WORLD -- I WANT OFF	I looked in vain for the 1979 book by Christopher Evans, MICRO MILLENNIUM, on Kurzweil's reading list. Although Evans skipped the hundred year predictions, Kurzweil might have used Evans' book as an outline for his Spiritual Machines with only the dates changed.  All Kurzweill  adds to the  earlier book is bells and whistles and also the tooting of his own horn.  Unfortunately, Evans died in 1979 so he won't be protesting his  omission.<br />What the author fails to do is substantiate any of his premises  re downloading a human brain into a silicone chip or nanotube computer.  Doesn't he realize that a download is like a millisecond snapshot of a  living process? While the living brain is in constant flux through contact  with its quantum milieu, the downloaded brain would be a freeze frame, a  one time blueprint of the total picture. How would this downloaded brain  receive the constant neuron firings that are input every microsecond into  the real brain (floating in enzymatic fluid and nitrous oxide)? His future  download would stop cold the genetic mutations fueling evolution, which  Kurzweill acknowledges is a natural form of nanotechnology, and which has  taken man to his present height.<br />His metaphor for brain download, of  transferring the vinyl record music to the CD, is just plain silly.  Analog  recorded music does have a different tone and timber from the digital  brand; but his metaphor illustrates his simplistic approach of playing the  word game to the exclusion of context and meaning.  Kurweill's dialogs with  Molly (his feminine side) do give comic relief to his pontificating style.   If he would openly admit to writing fiction all would be forgiven and he  would get his four or five stars.<br />Like the folly of Ponce de Leon,  Kurzweill has found his fountain of youth by escaping from the living  nanobot molecules of his hardware body and becoming pure, dead software.   Kurzweill has racism toward bodies made of amino acids.  He greatly prefersthe strong as steel carbon nanotubes; but it is going to be hard to weave  his nanotubes into fleshy material as soft as a baby's butt.   Simply put,  to be human is to be soft and mortal. The proper title for this work would  be KURZWEIL'S GOD IN A MACHINE --The Electronic Cloning of a Dissipated  Man.  But a more graven image has never been articulated -- a less  spiritual picture of man has never been painted.  His originality smacks of  the financial page of the Wall Street Journal.	2000-05-16
US	51062975	R1M87T4ATM90TZ	0312867077	219698118	Genesis	Books	4	6	8	N	N	CREATURES OF CHAOS IN VIRTUAL REALITY	I think Author pushed his own brain to the limit to create these human-like avatars of quantum chaotic celestial gods. Author says most of life processes proceed on a quantum level beyond human comprehension.. The story reminds me of Herman Hesse's GLASS BEAD GAME with the change that  Galactic Brain Nodes are the players and poor human consciousness gets to  be the glass beads. Poul Anderson realizes this when he says some games are  beyond human words and some works beyond music. To make the  incomprehensible less so the Author resorts to myth and metaphor.  This  doesn't work for me but Author had no other option given the outer space he  was shooting for.  Few writers attempt or succeed so well in finding  patterns of comprehension in the swirling chaos of modern day linguistic  strange attractors.<br />The bright human characters in this story  have  become too dissipated for the  normal reader to relate to. The characters  are all humming \\"is that all there is?\\" Who can sit shadow watching, star  gazing and waiting to be uploaded or assimilated into a galactic brain? It  seems a stretch that God Gaia, God Wayfarer or Alpha would get teary eyed  about a human love couple but then viewers still do choke up at these  Hollywood endings. Still the conflicts are excellent and the mythical  metaphors exceptional.  I especially appreciated that an uploaded human  mind is likened to a gene in the chromosome of a galactic god. If you  really enjoy far out Sci-fi, like \\"modulated neutrino beams\\" and Star Trek  holodeck drama played out on the mental screens of galactic gods, don't  miss GENESIS.	2000-05-02
US	51062975	R1UW49YMIT22SW	0716720930	99017660	The New Ambidextrous Universe: Symmetry and Asymmetry, from Mirror Reflections to Superstrings	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Frames superstrings and twistors	Every decade Gardner updates this book. The five new chapters in the 1990 edition, including material on twistors and superstrings, are well worth the price. What Gardner does best is frame the new theories within a   historical perspective.  For example, he says it is impossible not to  compare string theory with Lord Kelvin's (W. Thompson) 1958 theory of  vortex strings. Vortex string theory was fashionable for at least fifty  years. Gardner shows the vortex string theory and the superstring theory to  be kissing cousins: Lord Kelvin used perfect fluid  to refer to the  superstring quantum vacuum -- both referring to the same sub-space area.    String theory speaks of vibrating frequencies of energy while vortex rings  were also vibrating frequencies that gave the atoms different properties.   Instead of quantum foam with jittering virtual particles, vortex theory had  vortex sponges with billions of vortex motions whirling in all  directions.<br />Gardner's account of Roger Penrose's twistor theory is short  and  excellent. Physicists have gotten tangled up trying to speak of   deeper down events which are hidden from view due to their sub-Planck  length size (10 to the minus 33rd power of a centimeter). Here it is  pointed out that \\"on a sufficiently small scale the concept of a space-time  point evaporates in the complex space of twistor theory.\\"  Twistor theory,  like superstring theory, was merely trying to formulate how the  submicroscopic particles come into being.  Both theories consist of math  and lack any experimental verification.  To repeat, the author discusses  these obtuse theories in a way that frames their overall direction of  thought.  Gardner appears to agree with Howard George who calls superstring  theory a \\"recreational mathematical theology.\\"  The bottom line -- both  twistor and string theory are philosophy -- not physics.	2000-04-28
US	51062975	R1KQMUJBMC5609	0880641991	218502613	Case of the Missing Neutrinos: And Other Curious Phenomena of the Universe	Books	5	2	5	N	N	UNSOLVED MYSTERIES	GRIBBIN is a good mystery writer but none of his cases are ever solved. Another science popularizer-writer who tackles describing the content of empty mini space -- this is space smaller than the Planck length of ten to  the minus 33rd centimeters.  I must give him an A for effort!  He would  like to weigh the empty space of the universe.  What is there to weigh?  Here is a list of some of his efforts: a) virtual particles such as  positrons, electrons and photons; b) quantum microscopic wormholes; c)  \\"sort of a gas of shifting minispace bubbles\\" d) space-time foam and e)  \\"monstrously labyrinthine spacetime froth\\". Thank God for wormholes, for  according to Gribbin's reporting, the weightless nature of space \\"is due  instead to an unseen froth of parasite universes that cling to our  spacetime through a network of invisible wormholes.  Without wormholes, the  Universe would indeed be so heavy that it would collapse.\\"  (P.193)<br />Gribbin does no better with the case of the missing neutrinos.   Four billion neutrinos per square centimeter per second are said to pass  through the detector tank of cleaning fluid buried in a South Dakota gold  mine. Only eight of the calculated 25 neutrinos have been detected per  month. Two thirds of the little devils are still missing in action.   Perhaps a Sci-fi reader can fill in this blank.  As an aside, Gribbin  reports that a Russian team has implied that a neutrino does in fact have  mass, as much as 25 electron Volts, which would, if so, at least account  for the missing mass of the Universe, hunted vigorously for decades, no  small feat.  Happy hunting.	2000-03-30
US	51062975	R2YM0ZP7UZBC3U	0716720930	99017660	The New Ambidextrous Universe: Symmetry and Asymmetry, from Mirror Reflections to Superstrings	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	IS SUPERSTRING THEORY A RECREATIONAL MATHEMATICAL THEOLOGY?	Every decade Gardner updates this book. The five new chapters in the 1990 edition, including material on twistors and superstrings, are well worth the price. What Gardner does best is frame the new theories within a   historical perspective.  For example, he says it is impossible not to  compare string theory with Lord Kelvin's (W. Thompson) 1958 theory of  vortex strings. Vortex string theory was fashionable for at least fifty  years. Gardner shows the vortex string theory and the superstring theory to  be kissing cousins: Lord Kelvin used perfect fluid  to refer to the  superstring quantum vacuum -- both referring to the same sub-space area.    String theory speaks of vibrating frequencies of energy while vortex rings  were also vibrating frequencies that gave the atoms different properties.   Instead of quantum foam with jittering virtual particles, vortex theory had  vortex sponges with billions of vortex motions whirling in all  directions.<br />Gardner's account of Roger Penrose's twistor theory is short  and  excellent. Physicists have gotten tangled up trying to speak of   deeper down events which are hidden from view due to their sub-Planck  length size (10 to the minus 33rd power of a centimeter). Here it is  pointed out that \\"on a sufficiently small scale the concept of a space-time  point evaporates in the complex space of twistor theory.\\"  Twistor theory,  like superstring theory, was merely trying to formulate how the  submicroscopic particles come into being.  Both theories consist of math  and lack any experimental verification.  To repeat, the author discusses  these obtuse theories in a way that frames their overall direction of  thought.  Gardner appears to agree with Howard George who calls superstring  theory a \\"recreational mathematical theology.\\"  The bottom line -- both  twistor and string theory are philosophy -- not physics.	2000-03-29
US	51062975	R7YPHDR8PQ0OD	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Gave me quantum jitters!	There is a  submicroscopic bandwidth of space (better to call it plenum rather than vacuum)  somewhere between 10 to the minus 21st centimeter and, say, 10 to the minus 41st centimeter where frenzied quantum fluctuations  create virtual string pairs which blink in and out of existence.  Brian  Greene's book gives me the quantum jitters.  The author clarifies that  although our current energy accelerators can measure tiny lengths of 10 to  the minus 16th centimeter, in order to be able to see the Planck length  strings (10 to the minus 33rd centimeter), one would need an accelerator  with the circumference of either our galaxy or the entire universe.  Greene  asks the rhetorical question whether the existence of strings will ever be  confirmed by experimental evidence. Magnification by 33 or more magnitudes  (powers of ten) would show whether these banjo strings exist.  But it is  clear that no such technology to so magnify lies on the human  horizon.<br />Putting the mumbo-jumbo physics aside and viewing strings from a  distance, this book sounds like another search for a secular Deity. The  untestable premises put the theory in the camp of New Age Theology or even  astrology.  All of these schools concern a realm of thought beyond science  and provable theory.  To paraphrase Greene's words: a theory with beautiful  simplicity which can heal the breach between gravity and quantum mechanics,  and that can unify all of nature's ingredients. But the question remains,  do these frenzied quantum fluctuations or quantum jitters represent a stand  in or understudy for God?<br />I liked the book a lot because of the author's  honest admission that string theory could turn out to be an elaborate  Dungeons and Dragons game.  Since the string coupling constant cannot be  calculated there can be no answer to the author's relevant question in  Chapter 12,\\"Is the Ballpark in the Ballpark?\\"  While proving nothing  positive the book is great fodder for thought.	2000-03-13
US	51062975	R1HVBZIHY2ONE7	0312867123	272088925	Flashforward	Books	3	2	7	N	N	WHERE ARE THE FOOTNOTES?	A lot attempted but with little results.  I kept looking for the footnotes and perhaps some math formulas.  It seems many Sci-fi writers are creating new genre's these days.  The discipline of the old Sci-fi is a thing of the  past.  But back to the attempts: good arguments  of whether mankind has or  hasn't free will; a leap into the mythical arena of tachyons (energy moving  faster than light); a great metaphor of the Minkowski time cube and thereby  to explain the nature of time!; a primer on subatomic particle accelerators  and their future obsolescence; a hint at the nature of time travel  (although for less than 2 minutes).  Not a small helping on Sawyer's  platter.<br />Unfortunately the author does not take his own web site advice  in writing \\"to show instead of tell\\".  Unmotivated characters spouted large  helpings of real-life physicist Frank Tipler's Omega Point stuffing and I  doubt the author got Tipler's permission to reproduce.  Sawyer could have  at least dedicated the book to Tipler or added him to the acknowledgements.  My biggest problem with the script was too much mixing of real life  physicist's theorizing with Sawyer's own fine speculative fiction.  Such a  technique seems to fling the reader out of the imaginative walls in which  the story is supposed to be taking place. One could argue that it shores up  the believability of the story but the author should rather rely on the  readers \\"suspension of disbelief.\\"	2000-03-01
US	51062975	R1FAS20OHDOCWR	055326382X	963690652	The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics	Books	4	21	28	N	N	SHADOW DANCE	DANCING was a thought provoking read.  Zukav framed the vast cloud of quantum material very nicely.  He was able to do this without the use of math due to his insight into language --he accepted that math is no better  a language to describe physics than the metaphors, analogies and verbal  pictures of the written word.  I enjoyed his metaphor equating language to  the shadows on the wall of Plato's cave; that both physicists and  philosophy majors often mistake the shadows (language &amp; math) for the  real world outside the cave.  It seems we must accept Zukav's premise that  there is no world to be seen outside the cave and we must all settle for  using the shadowy concepts of quantum physics to speak to each other with.   This will in no way diminish the spate of talkers (writers) who either want  to prove or disprove the nature of nature, dwell on the anthropic  coincidences, or allow God to take an offstage bow for this quantum clouds  of chaos we all must live in. Another great analogy Zukav gives us is the  line ( silver dots on photo plate) which shows up in the detectors of an  particle accelerator.  He claims this line does not necessarily show one  continuous flow of energy -- our minds must connect the dots. In this  startling way Zukav contends that the entire storybook of quantum mechanics  and classical physics is filled with mere dot pictures constructed by  people desperate to resolve inconsistencies (no doubt of their own  conceptual making). People are seen thus as dot connectors.  Physics is the  story of scientists putting on differing lenses which then determine their  principles, their theories, their laws, their world views and points of  view which we can then read and believe in at our peril.  Zukav sees  yesterdays nonsense as tomorrows hot theory. I paid small heed to Zukav's  overall proposition endeavoring to distinguish the dance from the dancer  and his simplistic attempt to liken philosophies of physics to Buddhism  because he didn't allow this bias to interfere with his straightforward  exposition of the physics.  There is nothing wrong with bias that is  clearly labeled as such.	2000-02-27
US	51062975	R11XF9EFLWQRXE	0387972625	735845151	The Conscious Universe: Part and Whole in Modern Physical Theory	Books	4	6	10	N	N	SCIENTIFIC METAPHOR	The title of this book should have been COMPLEMENTARY UNIVERSE. The authors herein reached far past their knowledge horizon. They ontologized greatly, resorting to non provable, untestable speculations, and at the  same time warning the reader to avoid the same.  The authors sought out  dualisms to enshrine within their temple of complementarity.  It is as  though they made a cookie cutter out of quantum dualism, spread out the  dough of the universe from viruses to human consciousness to starlight to  black holes, and made a big batch of complementarities.  When one can't  resolve two disparate theories -- make a cookie out of both and chew and  swallow.  This is a brand of secular creationism wearing the garb of  quantum evolutionism.  They say: since consciousness evolved from  cosmic  star dust doesn't this imply that the universe must also be conscious? And  isn't man's consciousness a reflection of the universal consciousness?  Where they can't `prove' they `infer' and `imply'.  They state their  intentions clearly: `to answer the very basic human need to feel .... a  profound spiritual awareness of unity with the whole.'(P. 178)  Kafatos  &amp; Nadeau's intentions were very admirable -- to relieve the reader of  any angst and alienation from the holistic sandbox he/she must live in.   And the authors deserve an A for the effort to give the undescribable  universe a face and features the reader can believe in and relate to.   Their effort just didn't quite do it for  me.	1999-11-30
US	51062975	R3P61AH5BA5W6L	041512185X	345722759	The Undivided Universe: An Ontological Interpretation of Quantum Theory	Books	3	40	130	N	N	SCIENTIFIC JARGON PAR EXCELLENCE	It seems that the undivided universe is very much divided. These theory- of-cosmology-books by many a would-be-Einstein started back in 1980 with David Fiske's A THEORY OF COSMOLOGY (Vantage; out of print).  Twenty years  later there are a hundred of them selling like hotcakes. B&amp;H read about  thirty of them and decided to throw their quantum hat into the ring here.   What results is a round-robin of physicists writing about physicists in a  never ending circle of speculation parading as hypothesis.  It is a bit  like the Rose Bowl Parade-- the discussion centers around whose float  (hypothesis) is more/less speculative, non-provable by experiment,  metaphysical, ontological, unverifiable, ambiguous, and complicated.  The  poor reader is presumed to be a moth trying to get to the candle light  through the glass bulb of theory to reach an unvisualizable reality within.   The key question B&amp;H posit is: can the theory, whether positing many  worlds, many minds, sum of histories or holomovement, contain all of  reality within a Hilbert Space equation. Whether the barrel will hold all  the apples and still allow the lid to close?  Here a word about the authors  equations -- math is a shorthand, the simpler the more elegant. Their  equations need so much explanation that no simplicity or elegance is  achieved.  Also the jargon: implicate order, pre-space, quasi-classical  world, and decohering histories all need huge sections to explain. I would  say most readers are left floating in a sea of abstraction.  I found the  implicate theory egocentric, a return to pre-Copernican days, when I read  the speculation on page 389: `....through the human being, the universe is  making a mirror to observe itself.'  The Sci-fi writer, Philip Dick, wrote  in 1978 that our reality \\"appears to be a projection by an artifact. ...  The artifact, which I call Zebra, has created (actually only projected) our  reality as a sort of mirror or image of its maker, so that the maker can  obtain thereby an objective standpoint to comprehend its own self.\\"   Frankly I found the Sci-fi writer's version of cosmology far more  clarifying and understandable than I did the physicists.  Frankly I think  the authors,  B&amp;H, wandered outside of their own sandbox.	1999-11-30
US	51062975	R2A8PUIPRY4JS4	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	4	27	33	N	N	DON'T FORGET YOUR PARACHUTE	Talbot opens up some fascinating doors to understanding the duality aspect of man's physical nature.  Man as both a separate solid person and a \\"wave person\\" connected to all the rest of the waves in the universe. This is  consistent with the dual nature quantum theory of the subatomic particles:  electrons, protons and photons out of which man appears to be composed.   After introducing us to the holographic model formulated by Bohm and  Pribram, Talbot then proceeds to take the reader on a whirlwind tour of  every abnormal event listed  in the Britannica.<br />Talbot started down the  runway on solid ground for 100 pages and then left planet earth for a more  dreamy flight into an array of meandering minds.  We are given glimpses of  aura peepers, clairvoyants, distant viewers, ESP, LSD trippers,  materializations, multiple personality disorders (MPD), near death  experience (NDE), out of body floaters (OBE), phantom limb sensations,  psychokinesis (PKE), stigmata, psychic channelers, psychic healers,  precognitive dreamers, reincarnations, remote viewers, schizophrenics,   shamans, religious hallucinators,  and and then whisked far into the  Swedenborg stratosphere of biblical interpretation.  Obviously there was no  height the author would not reach for to escape the boring tranquility of  90% of mankind. However to fit all of this into one holographic model takes  some stretching. Talk about someone who got caught up in the material,  Talbot closes the dramatic script with the suggestions that scientists  become participatory in their studies instead of mere observers - take the  LSD, take the Out of Body trips, sign up for the Near Death Experiences and  line up for a UFO abduction.  What would any of this prove except the power  of mass hypnosis and the silly putty nature of one's dreams.  Illustrating  that when the mind reaches a dead end, escape into fantasy waits  patiently.<br />Author a prodigious note taker (700 notes in 300 pages) and  name user. Hundreds of names got their 15 seconds of fame here.  What  started out as reasonable survey of the efforts of Bohm and Pribram (a  neat, compact metaphor of the hologram as organizing model of man's  perceptions) steadily, chapter by chapter, leaped into the skies of  speculation.  Certainly a mind expanding read but bring along a parachute.	1999-11-12
US	51062975	R3C9SQITWFDCYO	0553576399	15854629	Distraction	Books	4	2	3	N	N	NEW GENRE: FUTURE POLITICS	Bruce's work is hardly Sci-fi, rather, sociopolitical prediction. In 1989 when he published the short story, WE SEE THINGS DIFFERENTLY, the author  used the same gimmick. That time his narrator sneaked some carcinogenic  into the rock star's hit of coke. This time it was a spore to produce a  permanent mind altering schizoid condition -- but that is no more Sci-fi  than a James Bond assassin's gadget is Sci-fi. There's nothing weak about  this new genre of  futuristic sociopolitical drama.  The weakness is in the  failure to transition his main character. Oscar, the political operative,  finishes pretty much as he started -- unchanged even by the radical  insemination of a second brain lobe.  Although Sterling was super  imaginative in dealing with the neurological technique for hatching a  second brain center he strangely failed to give the condition a new name.   In the old days they called this technique a lobotomy.  Perhaps \\"cultured  lobotomy\\" might have worked.  The main distraction to me was his leaving  out the role of the global conglomerate business world which in the real  world has a talent for controlling political puppets like his Huey Long  governor character of Louisiana, and his President Two Feathers. But after  all these comments, I still thought the book was great.	1999-10-25
US	51062975	R2HZXMKMQGZQQ4	014027541X	727745356	The Fabric of Reality: The Science of Parallel Universes--and Its Implications	Books	2	11	22	N	N	Deutsch knit a coat of many colors	If you finished this piece you should consider writing sci-fi. With all the ideas in the world to absorb why would anyone care whether the universe or multiverse was going to Crunch in a billion years? Why spend chapters  trying to put a perjorative spin on the &quot;inductivist&quot;? Deutsch  teamed up with Frank Tipler THE PHYSICS OF IMMORTALITY in endeavoring to  create a new Theology. The fact that he could sew together ideas from Karl  Popper, Richard Dawkins, Alan Turing, Roger Penrose and Frank Tipler into  one shroud is amazing to say the least. His title should have been  Reality's Mulligan Stew. All to fulfill his stated purpose of  &quot;proving&quot; that as in the ancient days &quot;it was still  posssible for a very learned person to know everything that was  known.&quot;  He is a very learned person but he hasn't even scratched the  surface of attaining his goal in this book. Whether the universe becomes a  giant AI computer in a billion years will have little to do with man's puny  contribution. All Deutsch has accomplished here is to set a course for the  center of a verbal black hole.	1999-10-05
