US	51075329	RM1IVL091HQSC	0393325008	627670341	Nothing That Meets the Eye: The Uncollected Stories of Patricia Highsmith	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A fortunate whim	I came across this book at a bookstore's clearance sale and bought it on a whim, for which I was afterwards very grateful. This is a comprehensive collection of lively, varied stories, each one worth reading. Each is a snapshot of reality as insightful as an Edward Hopper painting, delicious for its voyeuristic glimpse into a life, often a life's last moments.    The book is proof positive of Highsmith's abilities in terms of writing from different prespectives, telling stories as a man, a woman, a young person or a middle-aged one, an American or a European. Everyone will have a different favourite here; pressed to choose, I would not agree with the choice of Mr Ingendaay, who wrote the afterword, but rather select one of the very last stories in the book, \\"Things had gone badly\\", for its implicit conclusions about how banal everyday obligations can destroy artistic creativity. \\"A Girl Like Phyl\\" is another one of the prizewinners here, an insightful reflection on the harm that can be done by letting idealised memories of an unsuccessful relationship become a fallacious yardstick for measuring other relationships. Just a few of the stories are underdeveloped, staying at the level of character sketches, but this is compensated for by the ingenious ideas that gave rise to other stories, such as the collector of counterfeits in \\"The Great Cardhouse\\". The only reason why I give this book four stars instead of five is that I felt a bit too many of the stories (I won't say which ones) ended with a suicide which occasionally felt like a Deus ex Machina. Despite that this is a book that you won't be sorry you've bought.	2005-04-05
US	51075329	R14D5A8PBFHO0J	0609807161	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A new standard for narrative non-fiction	This remarkable work by Mike Dash sets a new standard for narrative non-fiction. As one reads it, one has the sense of being told the story by a particularly gifted speaker; it held my attention to the extent that at times I really could not put it down.    One of the oddest aspects of the tale of Jeronimus Cornelisz, his mad accomplices and their victims is the way that the tale's inherent interest is almost inversely proportional to the events' historical significance. No one particularly well-known was on the ship, and its loss did not create lasting financial difficulty for the VOC. Yet this anecdotic event in history was so bizarre it retains the power to fascinate, and to do so for the duration of a fairly good-sized hardback book. Mike Dash proves to be especially skilful at interweaving related historical threads that teach the reader a good deal about contemporary life in the Netherlands. From disquisitions on the differences between physicians, apothecaries and surgeons, to an explanation of the bloody history of the Anabaptists, Dash carefully adds in a plethora of details that far from being extraneous, make even the endnotes interesting reading, as another reviewer has noted. I really cannot think of a single criticism of this work; I was not previously familiar with either the story of the Batavia or the work of this author, but now feel fortunate to have come across this book.	2004-10-12
US	51075329	RN4TXPESR5W38	0060501049	88846723	Celestial Harmonies: A Novel	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Harmonious - with just a discordant note or two	This will sound like literary heresy, but the first recommendation I would make to those considering reading this book is that they start with Part II, the author's autobiographical narrative, and then go back and try Part I.<br /><br />Peter Esterhazy's \\"Celestial Harmonies\\" is an ambitious and unusual literary proposal that really consists of two complementary books within a single cover. In the first part Esterhazy tells the story of his aristocratic family through 371 numbered vignettes, some only a few lines long, others spanning several pages. In the second part Esterhazy looks at Hungary's troubled passage through the 20th century, showing how his family got its first taste of the troubles ahead with the advent of Bela Kun's communist regime in 1919, then enjoyed a brief return to aristocratic normalcy before the Soviet satellite regime of the late 1940s took away all of the family's land, possessions and power.<br /><br />The problem with this book is the construction of the first half, and that's the reason for the recommendation I made above. At some point the first half becomes such rough going that I'm afraid many readers will not make it past the halfway point, and that would be a shame. Esterhazy's approach to the first half was to tell the family's story as anecdotes involving a score of family patriarchs. The anecdotes are not in chronological order but rather skip back in forth in time: in most cases no dates are given. Perhaps Esterhazy wanted to keep his novel from seeming like a history book but I'm afraid the actual effect of his approach will be to send readers scurrying to their bookshelves for an encyclopaedia, as they try to look up a particular battle or Hungarian leader in order to put a given vignette in context. Many of the vignettes are insightful, and a few are hilarious, but as Esterhazy progresses through Part I they become more and more metaphorical, metaphysical, and often simply confounding.<br /><br />For all that, the second half is a poignant memoir, one that reads smoothly, brilliantly evocative of life in communist Hungary and of the sufferings of those families with \\"inconvenient\\" surnames, those whose mere birth made them enemies of the state. The insights from the viewpoint of the author's grandfather, a Prime Minister of Hungary towards the end of the Empire, are most interesting, and then the viewpoint gradually shifts to the author's. Esterhazy touchingly shows us his father's struggle to adapt to life in a world where he'd gone from being the heir to one of Hungary's biggest fortunes, to having to live in a one-room dwelling with his family and work a series of menial jobs, the only ones the state allowed him to have. Near the end of the book the author recounts a childhood meal at an expensive restaurant in Budapest, a meal his family was only able to have through the agency of special food coupons for foreigners that they were given by a relation. Only by pretending to be German tourists could the family enter the restaurant and, for a short time, escape the mediocre surroundings they'd been consigned to. Tourists in their own nation - the scene brilliantly expresses the extent of the Esterhazy family's losses under Communism and the author's personal memoir is a worthwhile evocation of the loss many innocent Hungarian families suffered in the aftermath the Second World War.one that reads smoothly, brilliantly evocative of life in communist Hungary and of the sufferings of those families with \\"inconvenient\\" surnames, those whose mere birth made them enemies of the state. The insights from the viewpoint of the author's grandfather, a Prime Minister of Hungary towards the end of the Empire, are most interesting, and then the viewpoint gradually shifts to the author's. Esterhazy touchingly shows us his father's struggle to adapt to life in a world where he'd gone from being the heir to one of Hungary's biggest fortunes, to having to live in a one-room dwelling with his family and work a series of menial jobs, the only ones the state allowed him to have. Near the end of the book the author recounts a childhood meal at an expensive restaurant in Budapest, a meal his family was only able to have through the agency of special food coupons for foreigners that they were given by a relation. Only by pretending to be German tourists could the family enter the restaurant and, for a short time, escape the mediocre surroundings they'd been consigned to. Tourists in their own nation - the scene brilliantly expresses the extent of the Esterhazy family's losses under Communism and the author's personal memoir is a worthwhile evocation of the loss many innocent Hungarian families suffered in the aftermath the Second World War.	2004-07-16
US	51075329	RSNNH70AKHQMA	0140269738	40948976	The Underpainter	Books	2	11	12	N	N	The Underwhelmer	As a painter, books about artists naturally appeal to me. But even with such a head start, \\"The Underpainter\\" became one of those novels I only finish reading by skipping from section to section, trying to catch sight of those threads of the story which still held my interest. \\"The Underpainter\\" is a fictional first-person memoir told in the voice of Austin Fraser, an elderly abstract artist looking back on his life as the 1970s draw to a close. With unusual locales such as Rochester, New York, and a Canadian mining town; with the requisite celebrity cameos, in the form of Robert Henri and Rockwell Kent; and with the potential for romantic conflict, when the same girl catches the eye of both Austin and his summertime friend George, the ingredients for a good story were probably there. <br />In trying to figure out what went wrong, I'm inclined to cast the blame on the supporting characters. Austin in a different setting might still have come across as cold and uncaring, but his performance might have been more interesting on a different stage. His artistic education was credibly described, and his peculiar relationships with both his mother and his father were well explored. But George Kearns comes across as such an unambitious loser that he becomes unsympathetic, a trend that accentuates steadily right up to the book's conclusion. And we learn far, far more about George's lover Augusta Moffat than we really need to know - page after page describes her childhood before she ever crossed George and Austin's path, yet while her importance to the storyline is high, her actual protagonism is quite brief. On the other hand Sara, Austin's lover of fifteen years - fifteen summers, Austin would hasten to interject - never really comes alive. We never get even the slightest hint of why their relationship lasted so long. Was he just that good looking? Was she so plain no one else was interested in her?<br />Jane Urquhart writes well, and in her hands Austin sometimes speaks with resonance. Ultimately, though, in my opinion this book was let down by the direction its plot took, spending far too much time on a mediocre parochial supporting cast and not enough showing us Austin's performance in the art world he is supposed to have succeeded in.	2002-09-21
US	51075329	RWQGOYUBXM2OP	0151007217	579659077	Oxygen	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Rises to the challenge	In his third novel, Andrew Miller leaves behind the 18th-century England of his previous work and gives us a story set in the summer of 1997. Miller deserves credit for taking action to avoid being typecast as only a writer of historical fiction: he clearly excels at much more.<br />In \\"Oxygen\\" Miller sets himself the challenge of scripting a novel that incorporates several different plot threads, some of which eventually intertwine, some of which never do. The story comes alive thanks to a cast of credibly flawed characters: in California, washed-up British actor Larry Valentine is battling debt and drugs in what seems a doomed effort to save his marriage, while back in England his mother Alice, in the last phase of terminal cancer, is being cared for by her other son, Larry's weak-kneed younger brother Alec. Still struggling to find direction in his life after romantic failure and a breakdown of his own, Alec is engaged in translating \\"Oxygène\\", the latest play by celebrated Hungarian exile László Lázár. In Paris, Lázár himself hosts dinner parties with his lover Kurt and a handful of old friends, blissfully unaware that his life is about to be turned upside down.<br />I felt \\"Oxygen\\" to be a novel about challenges, about promises kept and unkept, about people who find courage within themselves to an extent that would surprise all who knew them, and about people who let others down when they least expect it. Before the story is over all of Miller's characters have been challenged in some way or another - and their reactions are often surprising, but sometimes, sadly, just what we would expect of them. Adept at characterization, Miller makes his cast live and breathe to a degree few authors can match, and his talent for travel writing was an unexpected treat: whether narrating Lázár's movements across Paris or Larry's hilarious commuter plane flight in California, he makes you feel like you're there. A novel about challenges, then, that was itself a challenge to create - one the author has met admirably.	2002-09-21
US	51075329	R3OYRBBWOBW2DN	0786867876	451605784	The Floating Brothel: The Extraordinary True Story of an Eighteenth-Century Ship and Its Cargo of Female Convicts	Books	3	55	61	N	N	Blown off-course	Sometimes, history is written by but a handful of individuals; that certainly was the case with the first British settlements in Australia. The term &quot;Empire&quot; is to some extent misleading, in that it gives an exaggerated idea of monolitihic power: the totality of the resources that the British Empire had committed to colonizing Australia in 1789 were a few decrepit ships laden with convict women and supplies, and a ragged band of half-starved colonists left on the Australian coast for over a year without any contact with the rest of the world. Sian Rees vividly evokes the vastness of the oceans separating these early settler ships from their homeland and from each other as they traveled the high seas, not encountering a soul for weeks or months at a time, and lets the reader feel the isolation of the early colonists - those on the second ship, wondering if there was even still a settlement in Australia to be reached, and those already on land, wondering if the promised relief from Great Britain would ever arrive, or if the authorities in London had forsaken them.<br />Unfortunately, while this book succeeds in giving one a better understanding of the general process surrounding British colonization of Australia, and the many hardships involved, this was not its primary goal and otherwise I found it lacking. It is not precisely, as the cover claims, &quot;the true story&quot; of the ship and its convict women, since none of the women left any written record at all of their experience. It is rather a mixture of the women's names and the crimes they were convicted of (gleaned from London criminal records) braided together with an assortment of facts from contemporary travellers' accounts, sailors' reminiscences, and other source material which gives the flavor of the period but does not directly relate to the story of the ship and its women. Far, far too many times, Sian Rees resorts to phrases including &quot;it is possible that...&quot; or &quot;must have been&quot; or &quot;would have started&quot; or &quot;presumably&quot; or &quot;probably&quot;... Rees does rely heavily on the published memoirs of John Nicol, a sailor on the Lady Julian; her reliance on Nicol makes it all the more jarring that she freely dismisses him whenever his memoirs contradict her assumptions, as when after quoting him dozens of times she dismisses his memory of a particular incident saying &quot;this was in memoirs written when he was an old man, which are inaccurate in other details.&quot;<br />I really wanted to like this book, and the author is to be commended for trying to rescue the forgotten story of the female convicts. But this is light reading, not rigorous history, and where the documentary sources just aren't there she might have done better to write a historical novel and fictionalize freely rather than build a &quot;non-fiction&quot; book out of a tapestry of conditional statements.	2002-08-17
US	51075329	R6SAQTENC2D6E	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Contrasting torments	This is a carefully crafted and technically excellent book that will appeal to fans of widely varying genres: literary fiction, historical fiction, romance... I was given this book some time ago as a gift by someone who knew my penchant for historical fiction; I must admit to not having read the rest of Anita Shreve's novels, so I don't know how typical or atypical this book is of her work. <br />\\"The Weight of Water\\" is told in first person by two women: Jean, the insecure wife of a washed-up alcoholic poet, and Maren, an unhappy bride with secrets ranging from the obscene to the deadly. It is perhaps a backhanded compliment to Shreve's writing skills that she managed to make Maren the more sympathetic character, at least for this reader. This is a highly situational novel that actually tells the separate stories of two  dull and shaky marriages: that of Jean and Thomas Janes in our time, and that of Norwegian immigrants Maren and John Hontvedt in the 1870s. The gap of time between the two tales is bridged by Jean's discovery of Maren's handwritten notes explaining what really happened the night of a vicious 1873 axe murder on Smuttynose Island, a murder that Jean, as a photojournalist, is visiting the island to report on.<br />Maren's story is interspersed with Jean's: the two women speak for themselves and while Jean injects a mass of historical detail into the overall story, she never paraphrases Maren's words. Maren's story is one of love and loss: Jean's, one of insecurity and jealousy. Maren shows us what led to her loveless marriage to John Hontvedt, her anguish at the thought of emigrating from Norway, her disappointment at her first glimpse of her new home, and just what a detestable shrew her spinster sister Karen really was. <br />Jean also shows us a catalogue of her own disappointments, all of which seem to have been brought to the forefront by the trip to Smuttynose. Jean and Thomas and their daughter Billie have sailed there on a boat belonging to Thomas' brother-in-law Rich, who brings along his girlfriend, the seductive and well-spoken Adaline. In fact it is Adaline's attractiveness that seems to accentuate all of Jean's feelings of inadequacy: she's instantly jealous, afraid Thomas and Adaline are having sex when she's not around. At the same time she's disappointed by the boredom that characterizes their marriage, a boredom that may be to blame for Thomas' artistic burnout and that she both feels guilty for, and resents Thomas for feeling.<br />The difference between the two women, in my mind, was that where Maren was led to madness by the buildup of a series of tangible pressures - her uprooting from Norway, her 5 years living in a foreign wilderness, her forbidden passions and perhaps most of all her infuriating sister - Jean mostly just comes across as paranoid and whiny. But we don't have to like a book's characters to enjoy the stories they tell, and this is a good read.	2002-08-17
US	51075329	R1PD6OEAQ6421Y	0385315910	213926532	The History of Danish Dreams	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A dreamy read	This book is a stunning literary accomplishment that should be much more widely known than it is. Peter Hoeg weaves this tale in a way that marries the magical realism of García Márquez with philosophical ruminations reminiscent of Kundera.<br />This is the history of Danish dreams in the sense of hopes, of aspirations: of discussing what Danes of different classes and generations have wanted in the past two hundred years, and how these aspirations contributed to building the Danish society of today. Hoeg achieves a rare and seemingly contradictory feat: he criticizes a great many aspects of his country and its society, yet does so in a way that makes his Denmark captivating to non-Danish readers. Hoeg tells his story in a series of seven segments which relate to each other, through the lives of a cast of recurring characters and their children and grandchildren, paradigmatic of Denmark's different social classes. Hoeg brings to life the foolish 18th-century Count of Morkhoj, who one day decrees that on his estate time shall stand still forever; he gives us the Teander Rabow family, owners of a provincial newspaper whose power over their fellow townspeople is such that they print the news first and the events actually happen later, precisely at the time and in the fashion dictated by the influential journal. In one segment, Hoeg includes a recurring device in which several of the most influential figures of 19th-century Denmark --- a business tycoon, an architect, a Socialist rabble-rouser --- are secretly all siblings who have conspired to obscure their shared past as the sons of a small-time crook and a circus performer. And at the beginning and end of the story he introduces us to the devious Carl Laurids, the millionaire rogue whose underhanded schemes and shady dealings so perfectly epitomize the financial world of the twentieth century. <br />The wisdom in Hoeg's book is not exclusive to Denmark: he speaks of the nature of &quot;the twentieth century, wherethings change so rapidly that parents' experiences are totally and hopelessly outdated by the time their children have need of them.&quot; This book works on two levels, both as an entertaining family saga of men and women in their times, and as an embroidered parable of the forces behind national conscience. This is a dreamy read that will please anyone who's looking for unusual philosophical storytelling and who welcomes a book that fully engages one's mind.	2002-08-17
US	51075329	R2TJEWOA1FSIR6	0738825530	432709046	Gilded	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"Gilded" will please readers of many different genres	Ingeniously scripted and well polished, \\"Gilded\\" is a novel that will appeal to readers who favor widely differing genres. The book vividly evokes a raucous chain of events in the summer of 1897 which changed lives forever in the Massachusetts town of Hollybrook. Emma is the unhappy young wife of Mayor Philip Brandenberg, a hypocritical domestic tyrant whose snobbery belies his own humble origin. Philip has definite ideas about how wives should behave towards husbands: he expects nothing less than childlike submission and obedience. Five years into their marriage, Emma is already chafing at the emptiness of her home life but despairs of any improvement. Quite a few of her friends in Hollybrook suffer from similar marital boredom, yet share the hopelessness of their generation at a time when divorce was nearly impossible and highly scandalous.<br />Hollybrook's stuffy atmosphere is stirred up by the arrival of Freddie Ash, an enterprising young hatmaker who's as clever as he is handsome. Illicit liasons with Freddie in the workshop behind his store provide relief from connubial dreariness for several of Hollybrook's women, and being seen wearing one of Freddie's hats becomes a provocative badge of liberation for those women in the know. Yet charming as Freddie is, Emma is repulsed by his serial seduction of her friends and the meaningless sex that ensues: she yearns instead for Hal, the handsome, rough-cut young gardener who mows the Brandenbergs' lawn once a week. Emma's reserve intrigues Freddie, who tries to convince her that mere promiscuity does not mean he's just the jaded lecher she treats him as. But when her home life worsens and Philip's behavior takes a turn for the brutal, Philip's position as Mayor leads him into direct confrontation with Freddie over Freddie's immoral behavior - a confrontation that will have lasting and surprising consequences for everyone involved.<br />Gilded is a skilfully written look at some of the domestic unhappiness kept hiddenby the stifling moral hypocrisy and religious strictures of the Victorian Age. Its characters are lively and well-drawn, and Karp excels at exploring Emma's inner conflict and anguish, making her a real woman we can empathize with. Freddie is a strong character I think a lot of men will identify with - out to have fun, but open to something more meaningful if the right woman comes along. Straightforward dialogue and clever plotting add to the appeal of this story of one woman's determination to do whatever it took to better her life.	2002-07-03
US	51075329	R1NQTDY4W5NPZV	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The novel that defines the term "Historical Thriller"	This tour-de-force has left me eager to read its sequel, \\"The Angel of Darkness\\". Caleb Carr guides us through the New York City of 1896 with such precision that I felt impelled to download an old map and follow the characters' paths.<br />\\"The Alienist\\" is credibly written as a reminiscence by John Schuyler Moore. In 1919 the death of Theodore Roosevelt leads Moore to share with us the story of his friend Laszlo Kreizler's hunt for a serial killer, a hunt sanctioned by New York Police Commissioner Roosevelt in the spring of 1896. A metropolis at a crossroads, New York is home to a great many disparate forces who share an interest in keeping the city's law enforcement as corrupt and inefficient as it is. Efforts at reform are likely to be met with hostility, as Roosevelt soon found out. So when Roosevelt decides to accept Kreizler's help in assembling a task force to track down a particularly vicious serial killer, it is essential that Kreizler and his team work in secrecy, and that Roosevelt not be publicly associated with their effort. <br />The plot is skilfully woven and the characters are well drawn. Carr painstakingly constructs a credible trail of evidence for his characters to follow, and grounds the story on a solid factual basis, cleverly working real historical events such as New York's notoriously corrupt 1890 census into the trail. This one will definitely keep you turning the pages till very late at night.	2002-06-26
US	51075329	R3ONNRJVGT65V2	1852853301	602073595	The Ambassador's Secret: Holbein and the World of the Renaissance	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Understand the difference between looking and seeing	Art, history, religion, alchemy - these and more are the tantalizing ingredients with which John David North creates a singular work. &quot;The Ambassadors' Secret&quot; is a look at Hans Holbein's painting of Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve, two important 27-year-old Frenchmen who were in London in 1533. Even on the surface of things, this portrait is an unusual work: the two Ambassadors stand at either side of a curious collection of bric-a-brac that seems to be the real focus of the painting. North shows us how these items can be interpreted to determine a number of things, such as the date on which the two men are depicted (April 11th, 1533 - Good Friday). He discusses the nature and significance of the rhomboid shape at the men's feet, a geometrically perfect distortion of a human skull. Was the artist merely showing off by throwing in such a diabolically complex element, or was the skull meant to be a comment on the fleeting nature of life compared to the higher forces (time, the elements, religion) alluded to by the knickknacks on the shelves? Why is one string on the lute broken? Why does the painting suggest so many multiples of 3, even the men's ages, 3 x 3 x 3? Possible answers to these and many other questions are addressed by North, and once you've read this book, you will delight in looking at the painting again and seeing all the things you overlooked whenever you first encountered it. <br />Whether you approach this book for serious inquiry into an obviously intentional riddle, or just for entertaining scholarly conjecture about the intent of one of history's great painters, you are sure to enjoy it.	2002-06-14
US	51075329	RO5PDOZQWVUS7	0811213668	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	5	8	8	N	N	From memory, thought	It's difficult to review a book like this, because it's difficult to discuss a work of such complexity and genius without either simply restating the author's words or heaping upon it the same praise one would give any outstanding book. Truly groundbreaking works deserve a uniqueness of praise that is hard to achieve.<br />Sebald's opus starts with the shortest and, for me, least compelling segment: that dealing with Dr. Henry Selwyn, a former landlord of the narrator's. Selwyn is living out his last years in rural England, uncomfortable within the adopted skin he'd grafted over his birth identity of Herschel Seweryn, Lithuanian peasant. As Selwyn he'd married, he'd thrived, enjoying a successful career, but we can see at some point the fiction he'd  created became unbearable to him. We do not learn exactly why. Sebald is not ready to take us inside just yet.<br />The next life he offers is that of Paul Bereyter, a fondly remembered grade school teacher. Cryptic words in Bereyter's obituary lead the narrator to delve into Bereyter's past, to discover that Bereyter's Jewish grandfather had been enough of a taint to disqualify him from teaching under the 1935 racial laws. Yet Bereyter himself seems not to have been a practicing Jew, rather perhaps and agnostic or even an atheist. The younger Bereyter seems to have felt himself mainly defined by the 3/4 of his heritage that was German, and so eventually moved to the capital of the Third Reich and took an office job, which he held until he was drafted into his nation's army in 1939. And Paul then served in the Wehrmacht right up to 1945, seeing duty on a good many fronts opened by the \\"Greater German Reich\\". Paul's story, improbable as it may seem, invites reflection on a number of different themes. A German citizen, if a second-class one, living in Germany at the time she was controlled by the Nazi ideologues...What made him stay, make the choices he made? Willful blindness? A rejection of that 1/4 of his heritage thatwas causing him quite a bit of trouble? Or was it perhaps something naive, innocent, almost forgivable, the short-sighted \\"my country, right or wrong\\" response of a man who truly loved that country and simply could not leave it?<br />Sebald next revisits the life of a barely remembered relative, Ambros Adelwarth, who had left Germany around 1900. Again we step off to some distance and study Adelwarth from without. A clever, skilful young man, Adelwarth by his mid-twenties has risen from humble beginnings in Germany to the role of valet, confidant, and lover of Cosmo Solomon, the troubled son of a New York millionaire. Adelwarth and Solomon travel the globe together, Adelwarth looking on as Solomon displays his uncanny gambling skills in gilded-age points of pilgrimage such as the Casino at Deauville. Yet war, and not World War II but rather World War I, derails the young men's carefree lives; insanity eventually gets the better of Cosmo. Though a trusted and efficient servant, Adelwarth spends the rest of his life as simply that, a servant, dealing with the unpleasantness created by his employers' marital strife and surely a thousand other mundane concerns as well. No wonder in this chapter's epigram Sebald mentions a crop of tears; near the end of his life, Adelwarth seeks relief from the weight of his memories, a cruel relief he only gradually and painfully receives. This segment ended with a glimpse of a travel diary kept in 1913 by Adelwarth, and this itself was the the book's only weakness in my opinion: after the wonderful ghostly dream sequence in which the narrator evokes Cosmo and Ambros in their glory days at Deauville, I thought the diary segment a bit jarring and superfluous.<br />The final segment is the longest, most richly written, most compelling one of all. Amid the stark gloom of mid-1960s Manchester, vividly brought to life in the magnitude of its decay, the narrator encounters Max Ferber, a talented painter who has spent - will spend - most of his life shut away from the world in a grimy, dust-laden studio in a desolate area of the city. Ferber, originally a Jew from Munich, was sent away to safety at the last minute by his parents. They later perished in the Holocaust. Ferber, who had turned away from them, somewhat dreading his mother's letters before they stopped arriving altogether, and had turned away from his uncle, whom he refused to follow from England to America, dealt with his feelings of guilt by essentially turning away from the whole world, even from his memories, and from a remarkable manuscript which he hands the narrator one day. The manuscript is a powerful memoir of Jewish life in Germany in the early 1900s, written by Lily Lanzberg, Ferber's mother. This segment is a moving evocation of a long-gone way of life, and of the community that lived it, of the Jews of Kissingen in their daily and yearly rituals, of a time when a Jewish schoolteacher could speak warmly to his pupils of their homeland, the Reich, when it was still Kaiser Wilhelm's Reich, before that word and so many others took on sinister connotations. It is perhaps unfortunate mentioning the Holocaust always evokes first and foremost the dehumanizing images of stacks of emaciated corpses and of brutalized, starving survivors in camp garb: to fully grasp the import of those images one must remember that before that, there were Lily Lanzbergs, there were schoolchildren and fairy tales and afternoons spent reading the Münchner Neueste Nachrichten, there were vibrant communities made up of real men and women whose lives were not yet defined by the tragic endings they were to meet. Sebald takes us on a touching visit to the old Jewish cemetery at Kissingen, the last remnant of that more innocent time still unsullied by later atrocities that became history.<br />A book that really makes you think. What greater praise is there?	2002-06-13
US	51075329	R2ON0E6JXFLD1I	155876206X	31659864	Trujillo: The Death of a Dictator	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The definitive look at the long, bloody end of the affair	As you'll know if you've been to Santo Domingo, Robert Crassweller's \\"Trujillo\\" has long been the best-known biography of the dead Dominican dictator, perhaps owing partly to its omnipresence in the island's hotel gift shops. But \\"Death of the Goat\\" by Bernard Diederich is in my opinion the best and most readable non-fiction work through which to explore Trujillo and his bloody regime.<br />\\"Death of the Goat\\" has as its focal point the assasination of Rafael Trujillo, that is, the end of a 30-year-long story: the preparations, the backgrounds of the assasins, the frantic attempts to hide once the deed was done. But while focusing on the deed Diederich does an outstanding job of explaining how things got to that point, and does so less with the formality of a historian than with the incisiveness of an investigative reporter. This book is especially valuable for the light it sheds on the six months after Trujillo's assasination. Far from bringing about an immediate collapse to the regime, the assasination ushered in a six-month reign of terror during which Trujillo's family, led by the bloodthirsty Ramfis, exacted horrifyingly gruesome revenge on anyone they believed to have been involved in the plot. The torture visited on men such as father and son Miguel Angel Báez and Miguel Angel Báez Diaz is painful to read about even today and definitely not for those with weak stomachs. The curtain did not really fall on the \\"Era of Trujillo\\" until his sons executed their last captives at Trujillo's hacienda in November 1961 and then fled the country with their father's body and a hefty chunk of their nation's wealth.<br />The insightful and shocking look Diederich provides at the period after the assasination is essential reading for anyone seeking knowledge of the modern Dominican Republic. Perhaps most unbelievable of all is the fact that Joaquín Balaguer, one of Trujillo's rubber-stamp \\"Presidentes\\", could through his silence collaborate with such atrocities and yet still be elected president time and time again, most recently in 1994. Also hard to comprehend is how one of Balaguer's political allies could be Donald Reid Cabral, whose brother Robert committed suicide after the plot rather than be taken alive by the remaining Trujilloites whom Balaguer was involved with. In Dominican politics, truth really IS stranger than fiction. Diederich shows us why.	2002-06-13
US	51075329	R3LBJIHGT1Y5LC	0020199856	737772058	The Love of the Last Tycoon	Books	4	19	20	N	N	The Last Achievement	This work derives part of its importance from what it says about Fitzgerald at the untimely end of his career: fans of his earlier work will be pleased to see that this final tome showed all the hallmarks of becoming another masterpiece. By 1940, when \\"Tycoon\\" was written, FSF hadn't written a book in six years. But the familiar voice, though muted, had not been lost.<br />The lapse provides welcome proof of the endurance of Fitzgerald's talent over time. We can only imagine what biting, incisive insights he would have come up with if magically sent to chronicle the 1990s.<br />Fitzgerald's \\"Unfinished Symphony\\" is presented in this Scribner paperback edition in a way that will appeal to both casual readers and serious students. Leading Fitzgerald expert Matthew Bruccoli has assembled the fragments of this book into a gripping and highly readable narrative, and the publisher has included a detailed preface exploring FSF's thoughts at the genesis of the work, as well as a selection of working notes which will delight writing students looking for some insight into the workings of a great mind.<br />This book tells the story of Monroe Stahr, an early Hollywood producer who makes his mark on the industry almost at its very inception. Stahr's word is law within his studio, and a single order from him is enough to reshape, delay or outright kill a film in process. Since the death of his wife, actress Minna Davis, Stahr's job is his life - a life that illness and overwork threaten to cut short. But a chance sighting of englishwoman Kathleen Moore brings back a flood of old memories and new desires. Stahr's pursuit of Moore leads him briefly into the world outside the studio, and then her actions leave him reeling from the blows just when his rivals gang up against him.<br />The book is truncated at a very unfortunate point, Episode 17 of 30 - the precise point at which events begin to turn against Stahr. To finish the book in our minds, we can visualize the ending put forth in Fitzgerald's surviving notes, though we have not his words to shape it for us. But even in unfinished form, this book is still worth reading, if only to revisit one last time the mind that produced phrases such as this, in describing loops of unedited film hanging in a projection room: \\"Dreams hung in fragments at the far end of the room, suffered analysis, passed --- to be dreamed in crowds, or else discarded.\\"	2002-06-02
US	51075329	R3LKC13E3PYXZF	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Enduring Fixation	This story of madness and fixation will keep you awake nights - and not just because it's hard to put down.<br />Freelance writer Joe Rose and his wife Clarissa are in the wrong place at the wrong time. While enjoying a romantic picnic in the English countryside, they witness a tragic accident, a ballooning trip that goes horribly wrong. Joe and other passersby rush to the rescue, but the men bungle the operation and one of them, John Logan, dies as a result.<br />This would already be a lot of action in most books but in Ian McEwan's dark and surprising world it's just the starting point. One of the other rescuers, an intensely religious young man named Jed Parry, has in an instant become obsessed with Joe. At first it seems unwelcome but harmless, and no one takes it too seriously. Not the police, and not Clarissa. Parry follows Joe around, waits outside his house, writes him lengthy love letters: the situation becomes more and more disruptive of Joe's everyday life, yet Clarissa reacts unsympathetically, seeming to feel that Joe has blown the inconvenience out of proportion. Joe contacts the police again, but the Inspectors find nothing threatening in someone obsessively promising to love you. Eventually, however, the latent atheism in Joe's published writings seems to push Parry over the brink - and what happens after that brings to mind the well-worn phrase \\"I love you to death\\".<br />McEwan has written a book that is superb on several levels. One of its central themes has to do with the standard for determining when one person's behavior is threatening to another. Joe's life is being disrupted, he feels dread every time he looks out the window or checks his mail: Parry's unwelcome actions are clearly causing him anxiety. Yet though he seeks help from the proper authorities, he receives none and so must ultimately take matters into his own hands.<br />Most disquieting of all, though, is the story's plausibility. Just as consumers can be tricked into buying a defective product by its pretty packaging, the mere façade of sanity is easily bought into. All too often dangerous individuals are left loose in society by those too apathetic to stop them. Jed Parry, a slight young man who speaks of love and conversion... Who'd have believed he could be so dangerous? Subtle psychopaths abound in our society, walk among us every day undetected, and that's precisely what makes them so dangerous. The obviously deranged are more easily guarded against; it's the quietly psychotic we need to worry about. This is a book about which one can truly say \\"It could happen to you.\\"	2002-05-26
US	51075329	R1IEPZJ2PORCDQ	0553377868	735890843	The Flanders Panel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Knights and knaves	I must admit, I sit down to Pérez-Reverte's work with the comfort with which I'd chat with an old friend; his interests so often overlap mine that I feel confident that whatever's between the covers will be interesting enough to make the hours pass quickly.<br />In \\"The Flanders Panel\\" Pérez-Reverte tells a story set within the cutthroat world of Spain's art and antique auction industry. Julia, a young art restorer, is gently cleaning a priceless painting for her friend Menchu Roch, one of the greediest auctioneers in all Madrid. It's a painting other auctioneers would love to have - and to sell. While restoring the 15-century tableau for her friend, Julia uncovers a hidden inscription that hints at a riddle asked by the painting itself, an unorthodox view of two powerful men playing chess while the wife of one looks on. <br />Menchu has no interest in the painting beyond its resale value, so Julia turns to other friends for help in deciphering the painting's secret: her longtime mentor, a gay antique dealer named Cesar Ortiz, and her ex-boyfriend, the pipe-smoking history professor Alvaro Ortega. It is Alvaro who fills her - and us - in on the history of the people in the painting, medieval nobles Ferdinand and Beatrice of Ostenburg and their loyal knight, Roger of Arras. The latin inscription Julia has uncovered, \\"Quis necavit equitem\\", surely alludes to the historical mystery of Arras' death in 1469 - who killed the knight? The 500-year-old painting by an artist friend of Arras' may hold the clues to answer the very question it poses, since the chessboard shows Arras has just lost a white knight to his opponent. But just when an enigmatic chess champion named Muñoz has filled Julia in on the order of play suggested by the remaining pieces on the board, Julia's white knight Alvaro is murdered and the game left unfinished 500 years before comes to life around her, forcing her up against a diabolical grand master determined to win the game - a game in which she has been assigned the role of Queen.<br />This is Pérez-Reverte at his best, drawing on the professional skills he sharpened as a journalist to keep the action moving without a letup.  Ideal summer reading, it will drown out the beach-blanket noise around you and keep you digging for clues in a mystery as carefully constructed as the medieval painting its title refers to.	2002-05-25
US	51075329	R2JM3R03Q29961	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The finely spun fabric of obsession	\\"Silk\\" is proof that good things can and do come in small packages. This is a book you don't want ruined by the passenger in the seat next to you, or the sound of the dentist's drill drifting out into the waiting room. Save it to enjoy in one sitting, on a rainy day or a quiet evening alone.<br />\\"Silk\\" is a story of love and a story of obsession, two separate forces which buffet the same man, Hervé Joncour. The french village of Lavilledieu depends on silk for its wellbeing, but by the early 1860s the village's existence is seriously threatened. Plagues are destroying the delicate silkworm larvae, plagues which seem to affect every larva source - except one.<br />Joncour, who's been carrying the vital eggs back from Africa, is now is deputized by the local silk merchants to undertake a voyage to the end of the world - to Japan, still a forbidden land for most foreign traders. Joncour seems an unlikely agent of the village's survival: he's described as the kind of quiescent young man who contemplates the rest of his life the way other people look out the window at a rainy day. He's the mayor's son, was an infantry officer, and he's married to Hélène, the beauty of whose flowing, thick hair is matched by that of her voice. <br />Once in a remote area of Japan he finds himself face to face with Hara Kei, a village tyrant who stands between him and the precious silkworm eggs. As Joncour parries with Hara Kei while they sip tea, his eyes meet those of the young woman whose head rests in Hara Kei's lap, a woman the potentate strokes as if she were a pet. A woman whose eyes are not oriental. A woman who, with a single glance, plants an obsession in Joncour, an obsession that will impel him to leave his village every year, time and again, to cross the globe for a glimpse of the beautiful stranger, while Hélène can only watch and guess why every time her husband returns home, he's left a little more of himself halfway across the globe. Paradoxically, though Hélène isdescribed as having a beautiful voice, hers is a quiet presence in this book: she floats soundlessly through the story, her voice drowned out by the mute siren call of Hara Kei's lover.<br />By the time you finish the story, its two plotlines, dealing with Joncour's Japanese obsession and his hometown domesticity, will have been woven together with a seamlessness worthy of the finest silk. This book boldly exemplifies the idea that \\"Less is More\\". Baricco succeds in creating haunting word images using half the number of words other authors might. Joncour's story perfectly epitomizes a particular type of romantic fixation, a type which can magnify a look, a single note, into an obsessive memory that lasts a lifetime. With a surprise ending that will knock the wind out of you, \\"Silk\\" is a must-read.	2002-05-13
US	51075329	R1P077Y6BOHV6G	0140260536	85913114	Rasero	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Enlightened Pessimism	\\"Selfishness and its faithful spouse, Stupidity, will be your gods. And they will be loved and respected as never a god was adored on earth.\\"<br />These words introduce us to Marquis Fausto Rasero, the title character of this tour-de-force by Mexican author Francisco Rebolledo. They are Rasero's words, spoken for readers of the future.<br />When we meet Rasero in the 1740s, the 26-year-old Spanish noble is a quiet, contemplative man still coming to terms with a grotesque malady: every time he has sex, he sees visions of the future at the moment of orgasm. These visions are quite naturally terrifying: people cramming into metal tubes which travel underground, glass boxes within which small people move around while others watch and laugh... Above all, images of war: a giant metal bird dropping something out of the sky, after which thousands of Asians are incinerated in a blinding flash of light. Rasero is unsure how far into the future all this is happening; he only knows that the horrible visions of the year 1745 have been the worst of all. <br />In a move that speaks both of Madrid's stagnation and Paris' excellence at this point in history, the wealthy young noble leaves his native Málaga for a diplomatic post in Paris. He will spend his life there, making the acquaintance of the brightest minds of his time, men such as Diderot and Voltaire, Lavoisier and even Mozart, seeking to reconcile their beliefs with his secret knowledge. They are all working to bring about the Enlightenment they aspire to. Yet how can the Enlightenment these men hold so dear possibly be leading to the horrendous future Rasero witnesses in the arms of one lover after another?<br />This is an undervalued book that deserves to be more widely read. Its prose is thick and ornate, and you won't want to read this on an airplane full of tourists. Give it instead the time and silence it deserves. \\"Rasero\\" is not only an all-expenses-paid journey to the Paris of Louis XV, it is a thought-provoking examination of human nature using the borrowed voices of many great men, and some clever women as well. Some of its chapters, especially \\"Mariana\\" and \\"Robespierre\\" approach such perfection that they could have been developed into self-containing novels. In the end, Rasero - and Rebolledo - adopt a stance of uncompromising pessimism towards the future of humanity. Standing in Rasero's shoes, standing in Paris on an overcast day in 1794 watching as the Revolution devours its own children, including the enlightened young man he helped raise, you'll find his disgust is hard to argue with. This is a book that will keep you thinking about it long after you close it.	2002-05-10
US	51075329	R205QYNRTERJD	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A metaphoric trip down the road to nowhere	This book is based on the factual story of Sim&oacute;n Bol&iacute;var's own journey out of the heart of present-day Colombia towards the Atlantic coast. It is a tapestry of metaphors which underscore the degree to which Bol&iacute;var still represents the continent. No man has ever epitomized his homeland in the way that Sim&oacute;n Bolivar embodies the possibility and the tragedy of South America. Even today, every so often, at predictable intervals, Sim&oacute;n Bol&iacute;var's tired ghost is pulled out and paraded through the altars of South American politics with the reverence and expectation shown icons of the faith; yet every time, the faithful's hopes of improvement are dashed, as Bolivar's were time and time again in his own life. Hugo Ch&aacute;vez' current attempt to recast Bol&iacute;var's native land as the \\"Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela\\", governed by his own \\"Bolivarian Revolutionary Movement\\", is but a single example of the way Bol&iacute;var is kept restless even two hundred years after his death.<br />Ill, impoverished, his strength sapped by persistent insomnia, 46-year-old Sim&oacute;n Bol&iacute;var and a ragtag group of his last faithful servants and aides start up the Magdalena River on a journey whose goal is as shifting and amorphous as \\"New Granada\\", the restless nation of which Bol&iacute;var is now the ex-president. His term was marked by upheaval and violence, political backstabbing around him, but little accomplishment. Even the trip's destination is out of his hands, as the congress refuses to grant the tired general permission to leave the country he founded. His political rivals are in power, his loyal comrade General Sucre will soon be assassinated. Worst of all, perhaps, for a man of war, there are no battles left to be won. His life has become typically characteristic of the incurable restlessness that afflicts those men of action who premature retirement leaves without a focus for their energies.<br />Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez tells the tale in much the way its actors would have lived it: this is the narrative of a delay-prone trip to nowhere, frequently interrupted by social calls, illness, or politics. A few months into the journey, Bol&iacute;var becomes an objective of South America's first military coup, as General Rafael Urdaneta overthrows the government and then sends for Bol&iacute;var, asking him to return to the presidency. Urdaneta's action is perhaps the first blow struck against Latin American democracy, a mortal wound foreshadowing Bol&iacute;var's own demise. Throughout the trip, Bol&iacute;var and those around him reminisce about earlier times, about the military campaigns which led Bol&iacute;var to glory and brought about the birth of nations, about loyal comrades in arms and treacherous political opponents. In the end, Urdaneta's actions in destroying the political edifice then calling on Bol&iacute;var foretell a recurring pattern in the region's politics, just as the cloying disappointment at the end of Bol&iacute;var's life speaks of the way the tormented area's hopes for the future are dashed again and again by war and corruption. So much promise, such disappointment.<br />Some readers will be put off by the novel's profusion of facts and dates, which occasionally interfered with the author's ability to create the dreamlike world characteristic of his other works. Overall, though, through the very nature of its threaded soliloquies and wandering storylines, the work powerfully evokes the turmoil and restlessness, the illness and the frustration that marked the last days of South America's Libertador.ative of a delay-prone trip to nowhere, frequently interrupted by social calls, illness, or politics. A few months into the journey, Bolívar becomes an objective of South America's first military coup, as General Rafael Urdaneta overthrows the government and then sends for Bolívar, asking him to return to the presidency. Urdaneta's action is perhaps the first blow struck against Latin American democracy, a mortal wound foreshadowing Bolívar's own demise. Throughout the trip, Bolívar and those around him reminisce about earlier times, about the military campaigns which led Bolívar to glory and brought about the birth of nations, about loyal comrades in arms and treacherous political opponents. In the end, Urdaneta's actions in destroying the political edifice then calling on Bolívar foretell a recurring pattern in the region's politics, just as the cloying disappointment at the end of Bolívar's life speaks of the way the tormented area's hopes for the future are dashed again and again by war and corruption. So much promise, such disappointment.<br />Some readers will be put off by the novel's profusion of facts and dates, which occasionally interfered with the author's ability to create the dreamlike world characteristic of his other works. Overall, though, through the very nature of its threaded soliloquies and wandering storylines, the work powerfully evokes the turmoil and restlessness, the illness and the frustration that marked the last days of South America's Libertador.	2002-05-09
US	51075329	R1864R2W21E5TT	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A story told with the wrong voice	This book unfortunately proves that there are some things multiple rewrites just can't fix. In a 1999 interview, Ellis discussed the years of work that had gone into it, and Glamorama's reception must therefore have meant for him a personal disappointment akin to that of those fans of his who were eager for a ride worthy of American Psycho.<br />The sad thing is, this could have been a great book. It approaches excellence at times, only to leave you skimming pages at others. <br />The plot, which doesn't become obvious for a long, long time, was a clever premise upon which to build an offbeat book. Fashion models were icons of the 90s as they've never been of any time before. Yet though we idolized them, publicized them, fantasized about them, the collectively held sentiment was that they're a bunch of idiots. Fashion models have the perfect cover, in other words, under which to engage in all sorts of devious activities. Unfortunately, we take too long to learn this because we're looking through the eyes of a model who really is an idiot, Victor Ward. As a narrator, Ward is so maddeningly dense that it's hard to figure out when he's just stupid, when he's stoned, and when he's both stupid and stoned, to the detriment of his and our understanding of his surroundings. <br />I don't believe in the idea that readers have to like a book's narrator or identify with the main character: the success of scores of books built around an anti-hero disproves that notion. But the choice of the narrator is the author's responsibility, and by telling the story through the eyes of the least perceptive character in it, Ellis builds a barrier between this book and any reader frustrated by stupidity. Some of the other characters, in particular Bobby Hughes, the group's venal Capo, and his sneering jackal of a lieutenant, Bentley Harrolds, are well drawn, and Ellis is still a master at conveying time and scene through his selection of songs and brands. But the book's single noteworthy sex scene 3/4 of the way through and the all-too-brief cameo by Patrick Bateman are ultimately just the bittersweet reminders of unfulfilled promise.<br />In AP and Less than Zero we learned what Ellis is capable of. I'll eagerly await his next work in hopes of finding him again.	2002-05-05
US	51075329	R3DTNSDU4V6CE3	0786706600	11660788	Napoleon III: A Life	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The essential biography of the man who became Emperor.	Lifelessness is a defect of far too many biographies - and works of historical fiction. Fenton Bresler's \\"Napoleon III\\" succeeds admirably in avoiding it.<br />Before Napoleon III there was Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte, and he is a vivid, living presence on every page of this work. Less a political biography than a personal one, the book cuts through the gilded pomp of the Second Empire to give us Louis, the man. Hotblooded, stubborn, flirtatious, fickle... More than half the book is devoted to his life before he became Emperor. Yet the book is also good in analyzing Louis as an ideologue. It has been conveniently forgotten that prior to becoming emperor, Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte wrote a number of books laying down the basis for the new ideology which Karl Marx, in attacking, baptized as Bonapartism. An accomplished schemer, Louis was blessed with talents better suited to the coming age of politics than to the warrior times of his uncle. In the end, though, his lack of military skill became the Achilles Heel responsible for his downfall. He would have been better suited for the age of the sound bite than that of the sword.<br />De Morny and Persigny, Lizzie Howard and La Castiglione... the men and women of Bonapartist Paris are skillfully introduced to us on every page. Eugenie fans will not be pleased with the more critical assessment of her in this book: she is portrayed as a meddling political spouse to a degree that makes Hillary Clinton seem apolitical. A boring marriage to a wife who hated sex may havbe hastened Louis' ultimate detachment from the court he'd created.<br />Many a competent professional is overshadowed by an ancestral predecessor; from young doctors to aspiring actors, many a young person finds that over time the example which inspired them ultimately becomes their bitterest rival. This has been the fate of Napoleon III, forever remembered as the \\"other\\" Napoleon. Bresler's biography introduces us to a talented and clever man who could have excelledin many different callings, yet chose for himself the Herculean task of equalling the most successful leader of the preceding five hundred years. Measured by any yardstick other than the Napoleonic one which he himself chose, the accomplishments of his career would be impressive. In an almost conversational style which shares the data without letting it dominate the narrative, Bresler reminds us why Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte was popular enough to become Napoleon III in the first place.	2002-04-28
US	51075329	ROWX355SWBYW1	0452281091	293422350	Chang and Eng	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The loneliness of unvarying closeness	Two more lives rescued from the incurious forgetfulness of time. Darin Strauss brings to life the brothers Chang and Eng, whose physical bond is remembered today every time someone uses the phrase &quot;Siamese twin&quot;. <br />This much is known: the two brothers, born in Siam, toured Europe and America as carnival curiousities for years before marrying sisters and settling down North Carolina. Much of the rest is lost to us, and Strauss does a good job to breathe life into the census records and faded newspaper clippings that are the signposts of the brothers' time on earth. At least one of the book's themes is the loneliness of closeness: the two brothers, never more than a few inches apart, develop wholly different personalities and in the end hold a lot back from each other. It would hardly be surprising for friction to arise between any two people condemned to such togetherness; look how many marriages suffer from suffocation.<br />Eng tells the story, and this has the curious effect of making one wonder if one is only hearing half of it. Eng is portrayed as the more learned, more reflexive of the two brothers, which makes his choice as narrator understandable. Yet at the same time, his voice keeps him at some distance from the reader. One has the impression that the gregarious - and alcoholic - Chang might have put a far different spin on the tale. That said, the book is both well-structured, making good use of an alternating timeline, and well-researched, putting the brothers and those around them in a vivid historical context.	2002-04-15
US	51075329	R3TRRL0ZUTCX2L	0151004099	427489038	Casanova in Love	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The masochistic gamble of unwanted love	In addition to being a gifted writer, Andrew Miller is an extraordinarily skilled observer of human nature. I found \\"Casanova in Love\\" to be a keenly insightful look at human vulnerability in the face of two overpowering forces: age and love.<br />\\"Casanova in Love\\" is not by any means a biography of the great seducer: rather, through Casanova Miller explores the darker side of relationships. It is 1763, and a jaded 38-year-old Casanova finds himself in London, wealthy, notorious, yet restless. He feels something is amiss with his life, or rather, that the life he has created for himself is no longer enough to satisfy him: \\"[E]ach day another pig-white hair to pluck from nose or eyebrow, and in [his heart] the knowledge that the vertex had already passed, that there was nothing now but twenty, thirty more years of being Casanova: a tedious, more grudging re-enactment of the done.\\"<br />Already weakened by creeping self-doubt, the hunter becomes the hunted. Beautiful 17-year-old courtesan Marie Charpillon seems a veritable fountain of youth. For the rest of the book, in richly worded vignettes, some hilarious, some embarassing, Casanova's behavior is a catalog of the pathetic. He exemplifies the temporary blindness of those who try too hard to make someone else love them. After all, Charpillon herself had stated her goal as \\"making him fall in love with me, and then torturing him.\\" Yet the mere sight of her deafens him to these words, and there seems to be no indignity he will not endure, always in the hope that this time, this one, will be rewarded with love in return.<br />There is no love in this story, of course. Not in her abuse of him, nor in his obsession with her. Yet compared to her calculated humiliation of him, Casanova's obsession seems at least the forgivable honest mistake of a man trying clumsily to do what he believes is right, in this case, to love. Gambling is a recurring theme in the book, a reminder of the high stakes and the chances we take whenwe let our defenses down to someone else. A simplistic writer's approach to this book would have been to portray Casanova's torment as his just desserts for the way he'd treated other women. Miller rises above this inadequate theme. Casanova's tale is a parable for a million other relationships. It is a beautifully written warning against trying too hard to be loved, a brutal cautionary look at how we expose ourselves to being used if we open ourselves up to the wrong person.	2002-04-15
US	51075329	R2XUYD1HON0UNF	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Latent darkness with an aural light at the end of the tunnel	Judging from other reviews I've read, this seems to be a book people either love or hate. I loved it. <br />As Stephen King matures, so too do his interests. This is one of his least gory works, and it has an unusually political backstory. King masterfully navigates the shoals of America's abortion debate, managing to make it an integral part of the scenario in which the story unfolds without exhibiting bias towards either the pro-choice or pro-life camps. This in itself is a masterful accomplishment, if you believe (as I do) that fiction writers should tell a story and that messages are for telegrams.<br />Ralph Roberts is a widowed septuagenarian who can't sleep. A retired travelling salesman and bookkeeper, he shares a duplex home with a retired schoolteacher. At first glance he would hardly seem a literary hero in the traditional epic mold. Yet in King's hands Roberts exhibits a quiet dignity, a serene determination that gives him inner strength when he needs it the most. Roberts is willing to stand up for what he believes is right, and does so without being corny. The human characters around Roberts are fully developed before the first hint of the supernatural appears in his life. When it does, the writing is vintage King: his imaginative descriptions of characters' auras, and the ways they change in different circumstances, create vivid images in the mind's eye. Evil forces ARE at work here, no doubt about that. When Ralph and his sidekick Lois finally make it into the lair of the sinister Atropos, the latent darkness of the moment is comparable to that found in King masterpieces such as \\"It\\". <br />From a storytelling standpoint, I felt this one of King's strongest works. Some of my favorite King books and stories over the years have been those which were as much sci-fi as horror, such as the short stories \\"Word Processor of the Gods\\" and \\"The Jaunt\\" in Skeleton Crew. This book fits nicely into The Big Picture that King is working to shape his works into - you'll find a few familiar surnames in extremis, such as Funderburke and Creed. You'll find a work which clearly shows the care its author put into creating it for over three years of his life. Most of all, you'll find a compelling story that you won't want to put down at night.	2002-04-04
US	51075329	R1JVI7ONWYFQT0	0747252181	705877508	Jack the Ripper: The Simple Truth	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Profiles in Carnage	A plausible answer to the world's most famous whodunnit. This highly readable book combines a fine knack for storytelling with the use of cutting-edge criminal investigation techniques. Bruce Paley breathes new life into the time-worn tale of Jack the Ripper, and succeeds in providing just enough background detail to be thorough, without going overboard and producing a coroner's report. Paley's book is based on the theory that the Ripper was one Joseph Barnett, a man questioned at the time but never charged. Barnett appears to be a perfect match for the sort of serial killer described in today's FBI profiles. The author has documented Barnett's life as much as possible, using contemporary newspapers and police reports as well as the tools of a genealogist: birth and death records, census reports, and more.<br />In my opinion Paley upholds his contention that Barnett was the Ripper to a much higher degree than advocates of other Ripper theories have upheld theirs. He shows that Barnett had both a credible motive and the sort of troubled background which would induce the desperation needed to push him over the edge. Barnett's own personality remains something of an enigma: his association with the Ripper murders, however significant or oblique, used up his 15 minutes of fame and he spent the rest of his life in total oblivion. Joseph Barnett, the man, is ultimately unknowable to us, as is his putative alter ego, the Ripper; in the end the Ripper got away with it, and Barnett got away from us.	2002-04-04
US	51075329	R31EYV00KYUWEX	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tragic love amid a coven of liars	Fitzgerald's third and best-known novel, \\"Gatsby\\" is remarkable both for the degree of skill already evidenced by the 28-year-old writer and for the unmistakable turn of phrases, a hallmark of Fitzgerald's writing. My favorite aspect of Fitzgerald's prose is the way he was able to convey such precise shades of meaning, fearlessly crafting sentences that though wordy perfectly capture a character's emotions or a memory's effect.<br />\\"The Great Gatsby\\" is, essentially, a tragic story of love gone wrong. Is a lie told out of love less censurable than those told for lower reasons? Gatsby spins a cocoon of lies around himself, a cocoon from which he hopes to emerge as a new man worthy of Daisy's love. He emerges instead into a world of liars, and though on the face of things he is the biggest grifter of them all, Gatsby alone elicits sympathy: there is a degree of absolution due the creator of such a colossal deception. It is almost as if one is begging to be found out. Neither Tom nor Daisy nor Jordan nor even the unhappily married Wilsons have any such claim on our understanding. In the course of this story everyone lies to everyone else: only Gatsby pays the price. The truly creative liar is punished, the everyday tellers of banal lies go unchecked.<br />I personally preferred \\"Tender is the Night\\", perhaps only because its longer and more complex nature allowed Fitzgerald more room to perform, to draw on all the powers at his command. But \\"The Great Gatsby\\" is definitely a worthwhile read, a relatively short tale told with the ease of a colorful memory.	2002-03-26
US	51075329	R2JMFUMK6KQPYA	0156006006	75363464	Ingenious Pain (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Pain as the essential vaccination	An exceptional debut which has left me eager to read Miller's upcoming work \\"Oxygen\\". Philosophically, the novel as a whole may be seen as a statement on the nature of pain, emotional as well as physical, and its vital role in creating a well-balanced individual. No one wants to suffer. Yet too little, too late might be even worse, and unless one is accustomed to pain gradually, normally, through a lifetime's experiences, a single sudden burst of anguish could have far more devastating consequences on the mind and body of such a novice to pain than it would on someone vaccinated by experience. Like children learning to swim, we must test the water one shallow dip at a time or risk being suddenly drowned by the deep.<br />Born in 1739, James Dyer is of the same race of magnificent freaks as Jean-Baptiste Grenouille in \\"Perfume\\", or perhaps Luís Mariano Malasaña in \\"Secrets of the Painter\\". Growing up, Dyer's physical insensibility shapes him into a curiously warped individual, impervious to pain yet seemingly also unable to experience pleasure. His first sexual experience (with twins, yet!) seems to him more like hard work than anything else. Only unphysical pleasures such as greed or fame seem to appeal to him at all.<br />It is certainly credible that a man such as Dyer might make an exceptionally skilled surgeon, even in our own age, let alone in the medically backward 18th century. Dyer's coldly talented use of the scalpel leaves one wondering if perhaps such skill might be due to the fact that his ignorance of pain gives him the will to make cuts which \\"normal\\" surgeons might shie away from, all too humanly aware of the pain they were about to inflict. Dyer has no such psychological restraint on his hand.<br />All of Miller's characters are vigorously alive, pouring unstoppably from the page into our minds; Miller skillfully uses, but does not overuse, literary devices such as letters between them to more fully tell Dyer's tale. Dyer changes in the course of the book; I won't say how, and whether he (and any patients of his) benefitted or not from the change is a matter for debate. But by drawing you completely into the often sordid banality of life in the mid-1700s, the book will drown out the background noise around you, and give you a world in which to think and a lot to think about.	2002-03-26
US	51075329	R10Y6EAFNSQALP	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	0	0	N	N	American Classic	American Psycho is a book I would praise to people whom I nevertheless cannot imagine reading it. I have friends who haven't been able to finish some of Stephen King's works, and they certainly wouldn't make it through AP. People usually associate meticulous descriptions of grisly murders and sadistic sex with cheap dime-novel fiction: yet this is an extremely clever and well-crafted book. It's hard to say which scenes are more explicit, those describing with obscenely rough sex or those with grotesquely detailed dismemberments, shocking in their violence. For all that, the proof of the book's quality is that it nevertheless manages to tell a story, satirize mercilessly the yuppies of the 1980s, and at the end even offer a faint glimmer of hope for the novel's psychotic antihero, Patrick Bateman. Definitely a read not to be missed - if you're up to the challenge.	2002-03-22
US	51075329	R2G2VK97YDXTXP	0060932384	885582594	Immortality (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An immortal accomplishment	An astonishing book, a seamless marriage of storytelling and philosophy, the real and the imagined. It makes one think without being pedantic. Blurring the boundaries between fact and fiction, Kundera fictionalizes real people, even himself, yet grounds his fictional characters in a tangible reality. Even structurally the book stands out, large parts of it being arranged in brief segments of only a few pages, ideal to read in quick bursts then think about their meaning.<br />&quot;Immortality&quot; sows a universe of fresh thought in the mind, contains more insight in a few hundred pages than most of us could articulate in a lifetime. Where else will you find Hemingway having a chat with Goethe? Where else will you find passages with such incisive titles as &quot;The Brilliant Ally of His Own Gravediggers&quot;? This is a book of ambitious scope and magnificent execution.	2002-03-19
US	51075329	R12OYHWJJEQ77J	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	4	11	12	N	N	"Perfume" lingers in your thoughts	A gruesome tale told with consumate grace. Jean-Baptiste Grenouille takes us on an journey through the sights and smells of the decadent 18th-century France of King Louis the Beloved. Possessed of a virtually autistic brilliance, Grenouille has an abnormally sharp sense of smell and nothing else. Like many a prodigy, he is bored by the everyday applications of genius, and instead sets off in search of the holy grail of the perfumer's art: the creation of a scent which could induce love of the person wearing it. For Grenouille, murder is just a not particularly important aspect of the destillation process. <br />The book is crafted in rich imagery and with biting irony, especially when describing the book's unusually vivid supporting cast. Indeed, the supporting characters are in my opinion one of this book's strongest aspects and Süskind makes brilliant use of them. Where other books leave their eventual fate a mystery, Süskind wrings a few more pages out of each one at their writing-out, briefly taking us a few days or years into the future to witness the often horrorous endings met by those whose paths cross that of the perfumer.	2002-03-19
US	51075329	R36YGBPHJHDO5H	0061099341	757036024	As the Crow Flies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trumper: The Art of The Deal	One of Archer's best works, in which his talent as a storyteller is matched by his skill as a writer. He deftly handles the challenge of telling a lengthy tale from several different points of view, and helpfully provides dates at the start of each segment so that readers may know exactly which part of the action is dealt with in the following segment.<br />The story of Charlie Trumper, a humble British fruitseller who rises to much greater heights in 20th-Century London, is an endearing one that readers will remember for years and probably be tempted to revisit relatively soon after the first read. Trumper, his wife Rebecca and the devious Trenthams are so fully fleshed out as to become perfectly visible in the mind's eye, and the other minor characters in the book are worked in skillfully. The ending, it must be said, is a bit fantastic in its improbability; a tidily Dickensian coincidence. A lesser book might suffer as a result, but this one's tale is strong enough to stay in the reader's mind long after that last page has been turned.	2002-03-13
US	51075329	R3OPZRBWENCAZK	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tales that linger in the mind	This tome of tales first came into my hands when it was first released, and I was 11. Last year I bought a new copy and was amazed at how well the stories had lasted in my memory. These are some of Stephen King's finest works and if I wanted to interest a non-fan or novice in his writing, this might well be the book I would give them to whet their appetite.<br />\\"Word Processor of the Gods\\" transcends terror to make us all wonder what we would want if our computer could shape a new reality for us - and can we really all swear there is absolutely no-one we'd like to use the DELETE button on? \\"The Jaunt\\" uses a similar technological premise to Michael Crichton's \\"Timeline\\", but to a far different effect. \\"Gramma\\" is a tale loosely drawn from a frightening childhood experience of King's, as you will know if you read his \\"On Writing\\". Childhood fears, and the demonic powers scared children can fancifully assign to toys, also provide the basis for the evil toy in \\"The Monkey\\". And, in \\"Mrs. Todd's Shortcut\\", King introduces us to a woman whose passion for saving time leads her to some particularly bizarre places - quickly. Some two dozen stories, many of which scare less than they titillate, and create lasting images of the eerie.	2002-03-13
US	51075329	R2JEQRVB3I9LCM	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Elusive Paradox	Michael Crichton has achieved the impossible: an action novel heavy on historical detail. This in itself is a paradox no less than some of those which would be created by time travel. Amazingly, it works. <br />The plot is writing-school simple: Chris, Kate and Marek must travel back to 1357 in order to rescue Professor Johnston, their stranded boss. Yet even as Crichton keeps the action going on every page, he provides an admirable amount of detail while suggesting some food for thought. Foremost among these is the fact that people who lived in medieval times, or any other province of the past, were no more or less human than we are. Many today have some perception of earlier humans as somehow inferior to us modern types, when in fact it is our skills that have changed, not our nature. Perhaps no medieval human being could build a radio or design a web site, but none few of us today can joust or hunt for food, let alone defend ourselves with a heavy sword. Crichton subtly makes the point that if anything, the skills of clever women have better stood the test of time than the warrior ways of medieval man: through the characters of Kate and Claire we see how each is able to outwit or outmanoeuvre those around them in the medieval world, while only such a freakishly time-displaced male as André Marek, practicing jousting as a hobby in 1999, would have any chance of surviving if thrust into an earlier time.<br />This is a fast-paced engrossing read you'd better buy for your next vacation unless you want to be up until 1 AM stealing reading time from sleep.	2002-03-12
US	51075329	RPC8K4HPFCRGW	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	21	26	N	N	A Leisurely Pleasure	One of the most eagerly anticipated releases of the literary year, McEwan's newest novel once again shows him to be among the most skilled users of the English language alive today. Structurally it is in fact a single story told through three distinct novellas and an epilogue, for reasons that only become apparent at the end, as does the reason for the reminiscences of Woolf. Characterization is another field McEwan excels in, and most of the book's players are superbly believable: Paul Marshall in particular displays a sort of casual venality which would have placed him in good company among those who inhabited McEwan's previous novel, &quot;Amsterdam&quot;. And just as he kept us waiting till the end before revealing why that novel was titled &quot;Amsterdam&quot;, McEwan makes us wait to learn the exact nature of Briony's atonement.<br />To some degree, the telling outweighs the tale: this book is a pageturner not because of breakneck action or cliffhanging suspense but because of the care and artistry with which the author crafts it. In the hands of a less talented writer the storyline might prove a bit thin; yet it is the power of the gifted to weave such color and character into a story that its reading can be a leisurely pleasure.	2002-03-12
US	51075329	R2775K9FZNB3XO	1564780813	944695942	Trick Is to Keep Breathing (Scottish Literature)	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Haunting	My interest in the band &quot;Garbage&quot; led me to this book - its title was used by them to create a chillingly magnificent song on their second CD. I found the book itself to be one of the most creative and compelling works I read this year. The story it tells gets under your skin to such a point that I don't recommend it for those already depressed. For the rest of us, it is a chilling look inside a sympathetic character, a young woman dancing around the border between sanity and madness. She knows she is on the verge of losing it all, and knows she is not getting the kind of help she needs from anyone - least of all the mediocre medical personnel who see her as just one more casefile. Yet she's unable to shake the helplessness and displays the lack of will to take control of her own life which is so often found in the insane and/or suicidal. Galloway makes extremely skilled use of innovative page layouts and even unexpected graphics to really show us her character's imbalanced view of the world. We see through her eyes.	2002-03-10
US	51075329	R39U07MQUU0HUM	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What makes Dick tick?	Perhaps the most remarkable thing about this book is the freshness of its language: except for a few slang words used in speech, the prose is so cutting and modern that it reads like a recent creation.<br />Much of the discussion surrounding this book has to do with its semi-autobiographical nature, at least to the extent the Divers' marriage and Dick's personal unraveling mirrors the effect Zelda's mental illness had on Fitzgerald. Yet knowing too much about the parallels between a writer's life and his work can be distracting, and this is a good enough story to stand on its own without recourse to voyeurism. Fitzgerald shows the effects of insanity on a marriage and on its (initially) stronger member, but is discreetly circumspect as regards his inner feelings. We can see Dick working to create a sphere of normalcy around Nicole, yet his motivation is not entirely clear. In fact, Dick Diver is ultimately the least fully explored of the bunch: we never really learn what makes Dick tick. Why does he have this compulsion to make himself liked, to briefly be the life of the party then move on before his charm wears thin? In this behavior Dick displays a restless sociopathy worthy of a Bret Easton Ellis character - which also, again, proves the essential freshness of this novel written a lifetime ago.	2002-03-10
US	51075329	R1D6A8VCKC6PTH	0679457348	545610098	Oscar Wilde: A Certain Genius	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not Wilde About It	Barbara Belford's biography is well-illustrated and quotes its subject profusely, yet I came away with the feeling it tried to hard to prove a theory of Wilde rather than to explore him. The author discusses her reservations about Ellmann's biography of Wilde, and complains in her foreword that recent biographies have \\"take[n] specialist views: ... the Irish Wilde, the gay Wilde...\\" Yet she does exactly that, and seems to want to make up for Ellman's \\"reticence\\" in discussing Wilde's sexuality by placing it at instead the center of this work. As if Ellmann's Wilde was perhaps not gay enough for some, Belford's is overwhelmingly so; this has the (unintended?) effect of minimizing the importance of Wilde's wife Constance and his children. Wilde's homosexual passions are cast as the sole source of his inspiration, and it is suggested that he wanted to assert his right to live as he chose. In fact, the opposite appears true. By prosecuting Queensberry, Wilde was in essence asserting his right to stay legally and publicly in the closet. Once he had been forced in court to accept that Queensberry was \\"entitled to call him a posing sodomite\\", Wilde hardly seems to have accepted the title with enthusiasm or pride, as he himself makes clear in the opening of De Profundis. <br />Overall I'd say it was a pleasant enough read for those already familiar with its subject, but I would hesitate to recommend it to Wilde novices: the man was more complex than he is ultimately portrayed here, and one almost gets the impression the writer dislikes her subject. It leaves the taste of an exposé.	2002-03-10
US	51075329	R3NVM7CCIV32V1	0805239707	534693915	Usurpers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good in-flight reading	I have read this book both in Spanish and in this English translation by Carolyn Richmond; it is an excellent translation, one which succeeds where it is so easy to fail. Ayala is an outstanding though underrated Spanish novelist, still alive and aged 95 at this writing. This book is a collection of self-standing stories, each of which revolves around someone pretending to be something they are not. Most of the stories are based on real figures from Spanish history, but they are laced with just enough facts to allow the willing reader to research further, not with a tiresome assortment of schoolbook dates and names. Especially memorable are the story of invalid King Enrique of Castille, who tries to muster the strength to get out of bed and confront the greedy nobles who take advantage of his illness to plunder the kingdom; and of the \\"converso\\" Jew who, as a good Christian working for the Inquisition, faces the dilemma of initiating charges of heresy against his own daughter.	2002-01-24
US	51075329	R3N3M1QG75NOAE	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Entertaining, but not a Vermeer	Though built upon a promising premise, this collection of short tales woven around a single \\"lost\\" Vermeer painting gets off to an objectionable start that I found difficult to get over. The suggestion hinted at by the ending of the first story, that somehow the painting itself should be destroyed because it had once been stolen by a Nazi, is unconscionable. A work of art acquires no inherent guilt through the actions of those who handle it; the suggestion is all the more inappropriate given the Nazis' own penchant for destroying art.<br />Otherwise, most of the stories in the book were originally written and published separately, and this perhaps accounts for their somewhat uneven execution. I found the two middle stories, \\"Morningshine\\" and \\"From the Personal Papers of Adriaan Kuypers\\" to be the most compelling tales in the book, each more for the personal stories they tell than any protagonism of the painting itself.	2002-01-24
US	51075329	R2OMPZJ0PUJV8J	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The latent cruelty of average individuals	In practice I gave this book my highest possible recommendation: after reading my own copy, I bought 2 more and gave them to friends as gifts. Ian McEwan is a master of his craft, and he skilfully uses the English language to portray some of the worst facets of human character - doing so, appropriately, through three rather banal individuals, Vernon Halliday, Clive Linley and George Lane, each professionally successful but otherwise unremarkable; certainly a welcome departure from stereotypical archvillains. Anyone who's ever had a vindictive ex-friend or bitter lover will find resonant both the characters' thirst for revenge and the lengths to which they will go to satisfy that thirst.  A fourth main character, Julian Garmony, is put through hell in order to serve personal goals of Halliday and Lane; this too is an entirely accurate depiction of the perceived irrelevance of \\"collateral damage\\" caused others to those who are bent upon advancement or revenge. This story is a real page-turner, there are many unexpected twists, and it accurately depicts some of the darker areas of human nature. By the time it is over, one is forced to acknowledge a disheartening truth laid bare by war crimes trials in the last century: extraordinary cruelty is not extraordinary at all, but rather is easily found dormant in the hearts and minds of average individuals, waiting only to be aroused.	2002-01-24
US	51075329	R18DPXWTF38I2F	8401462061	526646702	El Pecado de los Dioses	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The joy of unexpected iconoclasm	A book full of surprises, beginning with its author: Campmany is an elderly columnist for one of Spain's most conservative papers, the staid Madrid daily ABC. Years of bitingly witty op-ed pieces and a book or two of poems gave no hint that Campmany would produce such an iconoclastic novel, a non-moralizing look at one of the most forbidden human perversions: incest between a brother and sister. His characters do suffer; this is not a glorification of vice, if anyone is concerned about that. It is rather a credible depiction of human weakness in the face of passion, as well as of the hypocrisy of loveless marriages performed for society's sake. The characters' lives are told in such a way as to make them engaging, and I found the way in which Campmany strings together 50 years in the lives of Giacomo, Vittoria and their families in a villa by a lake to be reminiscent of Garcia Marquez's Buendia family in &quot;A Hundred Years of Solitude&quot;.	2002-01-24
US	51075329	RMNKSA6IDHPNL	0226542440	38356960	Wainewright the Poisoner: The Confessions of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A forgotten life rescued, and a tale well told.	In books which really captivate me, I often dog-ear the lower corner of pages with particularly memorable phrases; a terrible habit, I know, but this book ended up ended up with a good many dog-eared pages. This is partly due to Mr. Motion's own unquestioned talent; I have little doubt that his prose is far more readable and entertaining than anything ever written by Wainewright himselves...<br />The life story, though, is Wainewright's, and with Motion's borrowed voice to animate his own hastily drawn self-portrait, Wainewright regains life long enough to become unforgettable. He was clearly a very talented painter, and enough positive testimonials of his later life in Australia survive to refute the cartoonish vilification under which his name shrank in his native land. Guilty of forgery, guilty perhaps of worse, he was also a glib and resourceful man, one who never lost interest in the art he chose as his calling and who kept drawing and painting nearly right up to his lonely death on faraway shores.<br />I personally felt the book gained speed and interest beginning in chapter 10, when Wainewright's own life became more difficult and he became, perhaps, more contemplative, just as Mr. Motion's writing did from that point on.	2001-12-26
US	51075329	R2VVYFDIVFWLXJ	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Could have sailed further with a little less wind...	I agree with the general impression given by other reviewers that something was amiss here. At the beginning the book swept me up immediately; in crafting a plausible tale of a 1767 shipwreck and the existing documents which would allow it to be found today, Perez-Reverte was at his best; and those who enjoyed his invented histories for the Ostenburg characters in &quot;The Flanders Panel&quot; will certainly find the same skilled artistry here. The book kept wind in its sails until the characters actually set sail; then the monotony of their search came to mirror the monotony experienced by readers, and when the pace suddenly picked up again with an unexpected, though perfectly expectable, triple-cross surprise ending, the sudden return of speed was as jarring as a Carribean storm. Perhaps an editor with a sharper knife or more ink in his pen might be all that was needed here. (Note: I read the Spanish version)	2001-12-09
