US	51079773	R3OTRZ8XQM9QRP	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Excellent writing, but lacking a timeless theme	I'm a big fan of Ian McEwan and, to be honest, I expected a lot more out of him than Saturday has to offer.  Atonement and Amsterdam, both of which in my opinion were masterpieces, as close to perfect as literature gets these days, set the bar high, admittedly.  And so it's only fair to say that Saturday is a perfectly good book.  It's just not of the same caliber as his previous works.  I can't quite put my finger on the reason, but I think it's that this book lacks that sense of gravitas that the other books had in abundance.  Saturday is too here-and-now; its themes aren't weighty enough, or perhaps they just aren't treated in a weighty enough fashion.  It seems like McEwan has tried too hard in this book to be relevant to modern times, and as a result he has lost sight of the age-old wisdom that filled his writing previously.  Saturday may be a bestseller this year, but it won't be considered a classic ten years from now.<br /><br />And that's not to say that this book was a throw-away for McEwan; it clearly wasn't.  He's worked hard here, you can tell, to produce an important piece of fiction.  His research into neurosurgery is exhaustive, his prose is refined and elegant, his dialogue is edgy and taut.  This is definitely a polished piece of writing.  Some passages will stay with me for a long time; most memorable is the passage in which Perowne and his grown daughter, after a long absence from each other, briefly share a warm reunion but then digress into a bitter argument.  The ideological and generational divide is beautifully drawn here.  There's nothing fake or forced or contrived about it.  McEwan really nails it, and the passage is a joy to read and re-read.  And while that makes for great reading, it's not enough to make it great literature.  There's simply no timeless theme here to give this book that kind of status.  Or more accurately put, there are several timeless themes here, but they simply aren't fleshed out in a timeless manner.	2005-09-26
US	51079773	RO5GCCXW9D4JV	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Of fathers and sons, and life's greatest treasures	There is so much beauty in this book that it is hard to know where to begin.  But as with most every great book, this one has at its heart a main character drawn with depth and humanity.  John Ames is a man with a gentle heart, full of compassion, sensitivity, humility, and grace.  Yet he also struggles with his flaws, especially with the demons inside him that juxtapose so well against his virtues.  As a minister, he demonstrates all the qualities that are most admirable in men.  But it is his honesty about his own shortcomings - about his failures in life, about his jealousy and distrust of another man, and about his own imminent mortality - that is most admirable of all.<br /><br />The pacing of Gilead is superb, though it may seem slow to those who prefer plot-driven fiction.  Each page slowly reveals yet another layer of one man's soul.  Very little \\"happens\\" in this book, but it is so rich in meaning and consequence that you don't really notice.  One of the most significant elements of the book is the gradual development of the character Jack Boughton, as seen through the eyes of the aging John Ames.  It is a beautiful example of why one shouldn't judge others prematurely, and that no man knows the inner workings of another man's soul.<br /><br />Lastly, this is a beautiful book for any father or son, or perhaps for any parent or child.  There is such a powerful emotional attachment between the reader and the main character, a father nearing death imparting in writing his life's accumulated wisdom to a son still too young to grasp its significance.  As a reader it is hard not to absorb the fatherly love pouring through the pages, as if this were in fact our father.  And at the end the book leaves you with a feeling that John Ames is a man at peace with himself, a man who knows that fatherhood is the most rewarding vocation of all.	2005-09-11
US	51079773	R2RN7Z3CED9JMP	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Review # 1017 of this book.... because 1016 just weren't enough	I have only two minor criticisms of this otherwise wonderful book.  The first is that at times it was way too sappy.  And I say \\"way\\" too sappy because, well, I'm into sappy books, and this one was still had parts that were just too sappy for me.  I could sit and watch Meg Ryan movies for hours on end followed by a constant stream of Campbell's soup commercials, but with this book I just had to roll my eyes a couple of times and let out a soft groan when it got too sappy.<br /><br />The other complaint is that at times it lacked subtlety.  The narrator is a fourteen-year-old girl; the readers are not.  And yet at times I felt like the author treated us that way.  I'm intelligent enough to get the point the first time - no need to repeat it four different ways.  And I'm also smart enough to get it without it being spelled out for me in nice, neat handwriting.  Just paint the picture for me and leave the interpretation to me.<br /><br />Other than that, however, this is a really good book.  I really enjoyed the messages about religion - that you can take religion and mold it to suit your tastes and needs, and that religion is something personal that no one else can dictate to you.  And the messages about race relations - though, as noted above, at times they weren't quite subtle enough - were quite uplifting.  Over the course of the book I really came to appreciate the fact that the Southern black characters did not have a stereotypical \\"voice\\".  Character voices were not distinguished by race, and thus many of the black and white voices blended together in a harmony that was quite powerful.<br /><br />I was pleased to see that the book didn't take any shortcuts or easy ways out.  I was worried, at times, that the author was dropping hints throughout the book that would lead towards an all-too-predictable ending.  Fortunately this was not the case; it was faithful throughout to the sometimes painful circumstances of the real world.	2005-08-21
US	51079773	R3I4S7A25J9H8N	1852427507	984421874	The Piano Teacher (Serpent's Tail Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Quality Nobel literature	Elfriede Jelinek writes with no concern for smoothing over rough edges.  Her purpose is not to write for shock value, I am convinced, but she certainly does not mind if the reader is shocked every once in a while.  Her insights approach the raw core of sexuality, but not with the careful tools of a surgeon or the methodical inquiry of the scientist.  Her approach is a carefully orchestrated full-on assault.  She has little pity for her characters and their right to privacy.  They are hers to expose, in graphic detail, and not just their actions but their thoughts and motives as well.  What ends up on the page is not pretty - at least, not if you were the one being written about.  But as far as literature goes, her writing is indeed beautiful in its originality and its genuine quest of truth.<br /><br />For those who follow the selections of the Nobel Committee each year, you know that their attempt at making political statements through their selections has at times compromised the literary integrity of the award.  Not so this year, I am pleased to see.	2005-08-21
US	51079773	RGQ7CJOCOMPOQ	0767910303	858881598	The Epicure's Lament: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	How about this for a dinner party guest list?	One of the most impressive feats in writing is perfectly capturing an authentic, original voice.  It's what separates the best novels from the pretty good and the most memorable characters from the soon forgotten.  In this novel, we have one of the most authentic, original voices to come along in quite a while.  And what is most impressive about this one is that it is a male voice written by a female author - an accomplishment that is rarely achieved with such precision as it is here.<br /><br />There is so much to love about this novel.  It is a thinking-person's novel, a novel of ideas and intellectual meanderings.  It asks deep questions about life and its meaning, about relationships, about the juxtaposition of  the inherent strengths and frailties of the human mind and body.  And it offers a main character who thinks he has all the answers, a character who thinks he is smarter than you and me and yet still finds a way to make us love him.<br /><br />Why is Hugo such a hero?  He is a recluse, a misanthrope, a nicotine addict, an arrogant ass, a thoughtless brother, and a spiteful husband.  He uses people for his convenience but feels no obligation to offer anything in return.  And he is dishonest and deceitful, with others and (more importantly) with himself.  But we love him because at his core he is the most human of humans, beautifully flawed in complex, nuanced ways.<br /><br />Besides the engrossing main character, this novel achieves greatness through a masterful use of the anti-climax.  We know from page one that Hugo intends to die, and that it will happen sooner rather than later.  The mystery is solved in the first chapter, leaving the reader with the freedom to savor the unraveling details in a slow reveal that is all the more suspenseful by virtue of the fact that it shouldn't be.<br /><br />And lastly, this novel has the element that epitomizes a great story.  A dozen individual lives mix and mingle, pass and interweave for close to 300 pages, then suddenly converge all together in a way so powerful that it feels preordained.  Imagine this for a dinner party guest list:  \\"...my suicidal brother and his evil wife and her illegitimate daughter, my furious soon-to-be-ex-wife and her furious sister and our tender, vulnerable daughters, and my new mistress, also my wife's best friend, and her husband, also my best friend, not to mention a hit man, an au-pair girl, and my old homo uncle, all at the same table.\\"  Such is the final scene of this spectacular novel.  It's a masterful passage, bringing closure to a masterful novel.s, then suddenly converge all together in a way so powerful that it feels preordained.  Imagine this for a dinner party guest list:  \\"...my suicidal brother and his evil wife and her illegitimate daughter, my furious soon-to-be-ex-wife and her furious sister and our tender, vulnerable daughters, and my new mistress, also my wife's best friend, and her husband, also my best friend, not to mention a hit man, an au-pair girl, and my old homo uncle, all at the same table.\\"  Such is the final scene of this spectacular novel.  It's a masterful passage, bringing closure to a masterful novel. <br />	2005-05-26
US	51079773	R15YAD160IX1SY	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Can someone tell me the significance of "WHO 6"?	While I can't go so far as to say that this was Booker Prize-worthy, it's definitely worthy of being called a literary achievement.  To be honest, I haven't kept close tabs on Brit-lit over the past year, so I can't truly say what might have been more deserving.  But somehow this novel doesn't quite hit the same heights as, say, Ian McEwan's Atonement or Yann Martel's Life of Pi.  That being said, it's a wonderful novel.  Few writers are able to make both a social and an intellectual statement so acutely, so powerfully, and so holistically with their work.  It is clear from the get-go that this novel can't be pidgeon-holed as simply gay literature, though the main characters are gay and homosexuality is a central theme.  But it's a lot more than that.  There is a piercing social commentary about class, hierarchy, and the materialism of the 1980s.  Between the lines of cocaine and the anal sex in the park you'll find a real novel of ideas here, one that captures a not-so-distant period with a great deal of wisdom, perspective, and insight.	2005-05-26
US	51079773	R2UXHJ3C45CWL7	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Heavy on ambition, light on achievement	John Updike, writing about this novel, says that \\"a novel of real ambition must invent its own language.\\"  This novel certainly does invent its own language, but that doesn't make it a great novel.  Frankly, I disagree with Updike's assertion; there are plenty of great, ambitious novels whose strengths lie in character delevopment, epic sweep, great dialogue, deep insights into human nature, etc. and don't invent their own language.  But whether Updike is correct is neither here nor there.  The newly invented language in this novel is cute for about twenty pages, then grows tiresome and feels forced.  It tends to confuse and bewilder more than impress.  Countless catchy turns of phrase simply had me scratching my head.<br /><br />Furthermore, the plot meanders aimlessly in a way that is at best distracting.  Roy is ambitious in her plot structure, too ambitious in my opinion.  A simpler narration would have been far more powerful.  This novel is a perfect example of a gifted yet inexperienced author reaching too far and coming up short.	2005-05-18
US	51079773	RO0NGD0VYROII	0618391126	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Runners to your marks....	As with many books about sports, this one is written at about the fourth-grade level.  That's a disappointment, but not reason enough to pass up this fascinating story of three men who set out, individually, to break a barrier that had long been thought impossible.  Even readers who already know how this one turns out - and if you're interested in running, presumably you've at least heard of who ran the first sub-four-minute mile - will find plenty of drama and suspense throughout this book.  Bascomb traces the paths of three runners on three different continents, providing detailed descriptions of their distinct training regiments and exciting play-by-play of their numerous attempts at the world record.  There's a lot of detail in here that adds flavor and dimension to the story.  I didn't know, for instance, that on the day of their historic face-off, Bannister was nursing a chest cold while Landy was suffering from a two-inch gash on the sole of his foot.  Also of interest is the tale of American runner Wes Santee, the least known of the three, perhaps because he was never able to shave the last half-second off his best time of 4:00:50.  And like the mile race itself, this book moves quickly.  I'd recommend it as a nice break from more serious reading.	2005-05-08
US	51079773	R2W6D0SHOOQ6CP	0140107479	292088234	The Transit of Venus	Books	3	11	16	N	N	The pre-destined paths of love and tragedy	The beauty of Shirley Hazzard's writing is her ability to say so much with so little.  One would not be incorrect to describe this book as having an \\"epic sweep,\\" despite its only being 350 pages.  That's the kind of effect that Hazzard's writing has; it instills in the events of the novel a sense of significance far greater and longer-lasting than just the here and now.<br /><br />She also has a true gift for understatement.  Hazzard uses subtlety and misdirection perhaps better than any other writer I know.  She will casually mention a seemingly arbitrary event, then quickly move on to some other topic, only to return to that event 100 pages later when its significance can be fully understood in context.  It's one of those stunning literary feats that leaves the reader breathless with his jaw hanging open.<br /><br />These and other talents more than make up for the fact that this book drags for long stretches and would have been better if it focused more tightly on one plot line instead of several.  It's not nearly as good as her most recent book, The Great Fire, which displays Hazzard's gifts equally well but has far fewer flaws.	2005-05-02
US	51079773	RNN07RAD8CSS9	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An inside-out look at America's game	This is a great book for baseball fans, or for anyone who loves a good underdog story.  If you're the latter, you'll find yourself rooting for the Oakland Athletics as they march towards the playoffs with a $40 million payroll, one of the lowest in the leagues and less than a quarter of what the Yankees spend on their roster.  The fascinating thing about this sports book is that most of the action takes place in the GM's office, not on the field.  But that doesn't make it any less exciting.  Reading the play-by-play of how Billy Beane orchestrates a deal for an undervalued minor league prospect can be just as gripping as a bottom-of-the-ninth playoff situation.<br /><br />What is really fascinating about this book is the notion that you can analyze the game without ever watching it, that the value of a player can be found in the box scores without ever seeing him play.  And there is something truly satisfying, something so American, about the notion that spending lots of money doesn't necessarily guarantee success.  In this book the little guy comes out ahead, or at least has a fighting chance.	2005-04-25
US	51079773	R2S1B2GYZAKDHN	0679407596	538008197	Doctor Zhivago (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Strong on message, weak on writing	I haven't seen the movie yet, but I already have a feeling it will be better than the book.<br /><br />This is one of those epic stories that just needs a big screen to be told properly.  There is something about the blandness of print that simply doesn't do it justice.  I need to hear the train, feel the cold, howling wind, and absorb the vast Russian landscape through all my senses.<br /><br />How is it possible that there is all this debate about whether Dr. Zhivago was a political novel?  Seriously, how could it not be?  Yes, it is certainly more than that, but at its heart this is a novel that wants to make a statement.  Pasternak made little attempt to hide this.  And any card-carrying Communist from mother Russia would be able to spot it for what it is.<br /><br />And in case you needed any more proof, it won Pasternak the Nobel Prize, which as we all know has nothing to do with good writing and everything to do with politics.  Look through the list of winners - the few who are actually a pleasure to read (Marquez, Steinbeck, and Coetzee are on that short list) are far outnumbered by those who are a pain to read but had an important message (Xingjian, Gide, Laxness, and Grass, to name just a few on this much longer list).<br /><br />Dr. Zhivago is an important book, but not a great book.  Great books have important messages, but those messages are gently nestled inside a well-told story.  There may be a great story here, but unfortunately not a well-told one.	2005-04-21
US	51079773	R3T7SD3DEDCVSO	0802151787	548414847	Nexus: The Rosy Crucifixion, Book 3	Books	2	10	33	N	N	The sound of no hands clapping.....	Boy it feels good to finally be done with Henry Miller.  And I don't mean just this book - I mean completely done with Henry Miller.  No, I haven't read everything by him, but I've read the \\"essentials\\" (the two Tropics and the Crucifixion trilogy).  And if these are his best books, I really don't want to see what the other ones are like.<br /><br />My goodness he is tedious.  Reading this last installment of The Rosy Crucifixion was like eating the last Pop-Tart in the package.  You don't really want to eat it after already having eaten two of them, but you figure you might as well finish the last one so you can throw away the carton.  And then about half-way through it you start to feel nauseous.<br /><br />Henry Miller deserves a fair amount of credit for breaking down barriers in literature that no one really challenged before him.  He made it acceptable, even fashionable, to discuss sex explicitly.  He made it safe for future writers to be ruthless in their attacks on established societal institutions.  And he opened the door for countless pseudo-intellectuals to put their ideas down on paper, even if they weren't trained in the fine art of writing.  So with all due respect, I pay my regards to him.<br /><br />But that doesn't make him a good author.  And that doesn't mean we have to read him.	2005-04-04
US	51079773	R2FKK32XOSGPN5	0684846659	704670488	The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The four roles of leadership	For fans of the first 7 Habits, this is really a must read.  As a certified facilitator of the 7 Habits course, I had been looking forward to this book for some time.  It does not disappoint.  Of all the leadership books out there, Covey's are the only ones with ideas that anyone can apply in a practical way.  His books get at the core of what it means to be human, not simply what it means to be a leader.<br /><br />For anyone familiar with Covey's training course The Four Roles of Leadership, the material in this book will be very familiar.  The ideas aren't rocket science; just like the 7 Habits, they are common sense ideas presented in an organized and inspiring way.  But common sense, as Stephen often points out, is not always common practice.  Being a real leader requires hard work, and this book will make it significantly easier for anyone who reads it.<br /><br />In part 1, Stephen encourages us to \\"discover our voice.\\"  This is so essential to leadership, but so often overlooked in this genre of literature.  To be a true leader, you have to devote yourself to something that taps into your full human potential, something that you are both good at and passionate about.  How many of us truly do that?  Many do the first but not the second, in my opinion.  We find work that we can do well, perhaps even that we really enjoy.  But how many of us are passionate about our work?  It's a tough question to ask yourself, no matter what your profession, and the honest answer is often difficult to face.  That's why I think many of us avoid that question, opting to believe that it's enough to merely enjoy a job and find true personal fulfillment in endeavors outside of work.  But the problem is that it's easy to spot someone who isn't passionate about their work, and it's difficult to be truly inspired by someone who isn't passionate about what they are doing.<br /><br />Part 2 teaches the four roles of leadership, or how to inspire others to discover their own voice.  This is accomplished by serving as a model to others, articulating a clear and meaningful organizational vision, creating systems and processes that are aligned with the organization's mission, and empowering those around you to achieve that mission.  Again, not rocket science, just common sense.  But it's so right on the money that you really can't poke holes in it.<br /><br />The book comes with a great DVD that offers supplementary video clips to illustrate Stephen's teachings.  Many of the clips come straight from the 7 Habits course.<br /><br />For first-time Covey readers, 7 Habits is the place to start.  The 8th Habit is really the Master's degree level of leadership, and the 7 Habits is the undergrad pre-requisite.  So if you haven't read the 7 Habits, start there.  It's been the best leadership book on the market for over 15 years, and will probably continue to be for another 15 more.This is accomplished by serving as a model to others, articulating a clear and meaningful organizational vision, creating systems and processes that are aligned with the organization's mission, and empowering those around you to achieve that mission.  Again, not rocket science, just common sense.  But it's so right on the money that you really can't poke holes in it. <br /> <br />The book comes with a great DVD that offers supplementary video clips to illustrate Stephen's teachings.  Many of the clips come straight from the 7 Habits course. <br /> <br />For first-time Covey readers, 7 Habits is the place to start.  The 8th Habit is really the Master's degree level of leadership, and the 7 Habits is the undergrad pre-requisite.  So if you haven't read the 7 Habits, start there.  It's been the best leadership book on the market for over 15 years, and will probably continue to be for another 15 more. <br />	2005-04-03
US	51079773	R2SLY5CV9DJUCG	0066209447	722701151	The News from Paraguay: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	History with a splash of color	One of the most interesting things I learned last night when I met Lily Tuck at the National Book Award gold-medal tour was that she never visited Paraguay before writing this novel.  Even more interesting, perhaps, is that she said that she almost certainly would not have written The News From Paraguay had she visited the country where it takes place.  At first this sounded odd to me.  After all, historical fiction relies heavily on extensive research in order to recreate a world that will seem authentic and genuine to the reader.  But then I started to think about my impressions of the book, and the first thing that occurred to me was that this book did not read like a typical work of historical fiction.  Yes, it was based on actual people who lived and actual events that took place 150 years ago.  But the overwhelming sense throughout this book is that those people and events sprung out of an imagination, not an encyclopedia.  And that, I believe, is what makes this book a real gem.  This is history told the way it should be - as a story.  While remaining faithful to true events, it recounts those events in a way that makes you forget that you are reading about something that actually happened.  You get so absorbed in the imaginative detail, in the grace of the prose, and the human drama, that the historical element of the novel quickly becomes secondary to the literary element.  And that is the way it should.<br /><br />While not a perfect novel, it certainly is a delight to read.  Perhaps most importantly, Tuck has managed to write in 250 pages what a lesser author would have required twice as long to accomplish.  The brevity of the novel, I think,  is what gives it its sense of urgency throughout.	2005-03-23
US	51079773	RTILHE8A40AYT	0802151795	897295046	Plexus: The Rosy Crucifixion II	Books	2	9	29	N	N	As mediocre as Sexus, but without the sex	Reading Henry Miller is like being in a dysfunctional relationship.  It's painful and tedious, and you often ask yourself why you stick with it.  You have this overwhelming feeling that you're wasting your time, and you wonder just where this whole thing is going to lead to.  And yet despite all that, you feel an inexplicable need to keep going, to see if things will maybe get better.  But of course they don't.<br /><br />I'm of the camp that believes that what Henry Miller did wasn't so much \\"writing\\" as it was \\"typing.\\"  There's no plot to this book or any other book by him that I've read.  There's no beginning, middle, or end.  No climax or denouement.  No character development, no central conflict.  You could skip a hundred pages ahead and come away with no less of an understanding of the book than if you had read the whole thing.  Or you could read the last hundred pages first without giving away anything that would make the first five hundred pages any less of a surprise.  This isn't so much a book as it is a long, rambling collection of disconnected events in a man's life, and the occasional digression into unintelligible philosophical meanderings.<br /><br />And unlike Sexus, there isn't even any sex in this one.	2005-03-19
US	51079773	RDUJOLWKBZ8QX	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Teen angst, right on the nose	My first impression of this book was that it was trite, formulaic, predictable, unintelligent, and unoriginal.  And to be honest, much of the first 200 pages were just that.  It read like a work of \\"young adult\\" fiction, the kind of book that would appeal to 14 year old girls but not to adults.  I really felt betrayed by the reviews of the book that touted it's \\"eccentric wisdom\\" and compared it to Catcher in the Rye.  Because to be honest, the first half of this book was really mediocre.<br /><br />But then something happened - it got, well, good.  The characters became fuller, more complex, more human, and more original.  And the world of this prep school started to get interesting in a smart and meaningful way.  And that's when I realized that the first half of the book was trite and predictable on purpose, because that was the author's point - that a lot of the stereotypes about life at an elite east-coast boarding school are true.  And when that message finally sunk in, the book started to get really good.  The drama became heartfelt, the characters' dilemmas became sympathetic, and the story started to feel real.  And by the end I have to admit that I was really loving this book.  It still has its flaws, as any first novel does, but it's definitely an impressive debut performance.  Sittenfeld has really captured an authentic portrait of a socio-economic as well as geographic clash.  Her main character is a true outsider, and she dives deep into the psyche of a young, scared yet courageous girl struggling to find her place where she knows she does not fit in.  It's about as honest and genuine as any reader could hope for.	2005-03-03
US	51079773	R1VSHP23WSWMCC	1573222631	795188046	Aloft	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Big disappointment	This is easily the worst of Lee's three books so far, a real disappointment after his first two beautifully written novels.  This book has none of the grace or elegance of A Gesture Life, and none of the pathos of Native Speaker.  It feels like the work of an author who at one time was original and independent, but who now has lowered himself to mainstream mediocrity.  There's nothing in this book to challenge the reader to think.  Everything about it is glossy and dumbed-down.  And that would be fine if it were coming from a different author, but it's not fine when it's coming from an author from whom we expect so much more.  There is very little genuine in this book.  The main character feels fake, artificial, not quite real.  His voice doesn't ring true.  It's as if Lee couldn't quite decide what kind of person this character should be.  Is he intellectual and introspective, or blue-collar and simple?  I don't know, and I get the impression that Lee didn't quite know either.  There's something to be said for a character with multiple layers, but that's not what we have here.  We have a character who is drawn rather inconsistently, and that is just plain frustrating for a reader.  The dialog, also, falls flat in this novel.  Rarely does it sound genuine, like a real conversation that real people could actually have.  Perhaps that's because the novel is narrated in first-person, a choice that doesn't allow for the semi-omniscient commentary that is often so practical with the distance of a third-person narrator.  All in all, this is a real pedestrian effort by Lee.  I certainly won't be waiting as eagerly for his next book as I did for this one.	2005-02-26
US	51079773	R1QXDJJQ7STE27	019283620X	385796084	The Good Soldier: A Tale of Passion (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	8	19	N	N	A forgotten, and forgettable, classic	The saddest story in the world it is not.  Nor the most interesting, for that matter.  For my money, the authors who came after Ford Madox Ford and who imitated or borrowed from him<br /><br />did so much better than he himself.  I suppose, then, that at least credit is due to him for having inspired better authors after him.  Where would world literature be, for instance, without the likes of Graham Greene?<br /><br />The Good Soldier is not a bad novel, necessarily.  It's actually quite good.  But it simply isn't memorable.  It's not one of those novels from which you could drop the name of the main character at a cocktail party of pseudo-intellectuals and have it be instantly recognizable.  That is to say that Edward Ashburnham, the soldier to whom the title refers, is certainly no Heathcliff or Darcy or some such character from British literature whose fame is known and remembered by most anyone who stayed awake through their high school English classes.  There is something about Ashburnham that is not fully engaged, or perhaps not fully drawn.  He never seems to step forward to the front of the stage, but he doesn't exactly lurk beneath a shroud of mystery either.  He just isn't all that interesting.<br /><br />The narrator, on the other hand, is quite interesting, and quite likeable.  But we never get the sense that the book is really about him.  He's an innocent bystander, a passive observer, a set of eyes that does its best to stay out of the way and not pass judgment.  And because the novel is focused through him rather than on him, we are forced to engage with a set of characters with whom we would dread spending an evening, and whose names we would always have trouble recalling.	2005-02-20
US	51079773	RA2CMN7XSP5F0	0684832402	141648772	The Denial of Death	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The ultimate lie	There is a truly brilliant thesis in this Pulitzer Prize winning book, one that ties together the advancements in psychology and philosophy of some of the greatest minds ever, like Freud and Kierkegaard and Rank.  Becker argues convincingly that the fear of death is the single greatest human motivator, and that everything we do, all of our paranoia and perversions, stem from this fear.  In order to survive and function in this world, we are forced to deny the reality of our own mortality, a mortality that is obvious in everything around us, especially in our own flawed physical bodies.<br /><br />From this premise, Becker moves on to many brilliant insights.  His exploration of the earliest contradictions that infants face, trying to reconcile their feelings of omnipotence with the obvious flaws of their anatomy, is absolutely fascinating.  Also fascinating is his treatment of how humans approach sexuality, a topic many would consider to be life-affirming but which in reality is one of the strongest indicators of the fragile and ephemeral nature of our existence.<br /><br />As with most works of non-fiction thirty years after their publication, this one is not perfect.  Even a reader with no experience in psychology or philosophy will find an obvious flaw here and there.  And the book is dense enough that it can be a frustrating read - indeed, some passages get so chewy that you might feel like skimming them.  But it still remains a landmark work in its field, and one that has given me new insight into my own ideas about life and death.	2005-02-13
US	51079773	R2BW535FWFGNEL	B0006CDOJ6	748287662	The bailiff Yerney and his rights	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Slovenian classic	I can't say that I ever would have come across this book if it weren't for the fact that I am studying Slovenian.  It's not well known outside of Slovenia, and it's difficult to find an English translation.  (The used copy that I found looks like it's from around 1960.)  However, in Slovenia this book is considered a classic, and many Slovenes feel that it defines their national identity more than any other book.  The main character, Yerney, is a simple man, hard-working and stubborn.  When he is fired from his job on the farm where he has worked for forty years, he goes out seeking justice - from the mayor, from the judges in the big city, and finally from the emperor in the capital.  To each of them he asks, `To whom does the apple tree belong - to the one who planted and nurtured it, or to the one who came along and picked the fruit?\\"  His relentless dedication to his search for what is right makes him a hero to generations of readers who consider him to be a symbol of national pride.  It's the classic story of the little guy taking on the system.  So does he win at the end?  Well, that depends on your definition of `victory.'  He stays true to his cause and to his conscience, and he never loses faith in the higher system of laws and justice that trump the system created by man.	2005-02-06
US	51079773	R38WD175MCIRM4	067973709X	513448067	Mating: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Adventures in the Kalahari	Should an overly-ambitious novel be criticized for reaching too far, or should it be praised for all that it does achieve?  Both, in my opinion, and so this book falls into that rare category of works that I have strong feelings for, both positive and negative.  It's easy to call this a \\"big book\\" or a \\"tour de force,\\" and you wouldn't be wrong for doing so.  It is grand in intellectual scope, exploring themes both broadly and deeply.  But at the same time I wonder if this book might have been better if it had aimed a bit lower.  I'm thinking here specifically of major books that took on important issues of the day, but did so more simply, and ultimately more successfully.  To Kill A Mockingbird comes to mind, perhaps the most important work of fiction ever on racism and social inequality in America.  That book achieved its status of immortality not in spite of its brevity, but because of it.  And I think Mating would have been more successful if Rush had taken a similar approach, instead of the Ayn Rand formula, which seems to work wonderfully for her but not for anyone else.<br /><br />This is still a four-star book, however, and I would recommend it to friends without reservation.  It is a book that makes you think about important issues, like poverty and social inequality and the injustices of the patriarchal structure.  The ending, I have to admit, left me asking questions, and not in a good way.  For a 500-page book it felt abrupt and somewhat disconnected from the rest of the book.  But it's still worth definitely worth reading, and worthy of the National Book Award that it received.	2005-02-05
US	51079773	R2H3KQ6XHB0L1K	0618265155	723333233	The Stranger at the Palazzo d'Oro and Other Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	When the student becomes the teacher....	At the heart of the four stories in this exceptional collection is the exploration of power relationships in which the master becomes the slave, sometimes by choice, sometimes by manipulation or deceit, and sometimes as a matter of circumstance.  Theroux is intrigued by what happens when a rich, aristocratic woman allows herself to be sexually dominated by a young, poor recent college graduate, or when a white South African writer, consumed by passion for a poor black woman, finds himself losing everything he has as a result of his pursuing her.  In two other stories, he skillfully examines a group of young boys as they seek revenge against their priest, and a retired lawyer who finds himself at the mercy of his hired help after he follows them on their Las Vegas vacation.  Each story is a classic case of role reversal.  In each, the typical lines of authority are turned upside down, resulting in some fascinating discoveries about the essence of relationships and human character.<br /><br />The first and title story is by far the best; both the story and the prose attain a height of mastery that aren't quite achieved in the following three stories.  The writing has an ease and a grace that are hard to find, that only come from the most gifted of writers.  And this is indeed writing with purpose.  The `grafin', or countess, in this story, is an exquisitely drawn character, a perfect balance of royal aloofness and pretension with human vulnerability and insecurity.<br /><br />The other three stories are treasures as well, though on a second tier.  Of them, the best is \\"An African Story,\\" in which Theroux first summarizes a half-dozen novellas written by a fictitious South African writer, then tells of the tragic downfall of the writer.  The writer's stories, in many ways, foreshadow his own life's events in a way that underscores the intrinsic ties between life and literature.	2005-01-22
US	51079773	R1HV58B06OG72Z	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gives new meaning to the word "edgy"	Tender Branson is the last surviving member of the Creedish Death Cult.  He's an expert at removing tough stains.  He provides dining etiquette advice to his employers, a wealthy married couple with whom he communicates only via speakerphone.  He eagerly accepts misdialed phone calls from people seeking a suicide hotline, then convinces them to go ahead and end it all.  He has an agent, a line of autographed Bibles, a book of prayers for mundane, everyday needs, his own cologne, and a syndicated radio show.  And he's getting married on the field during halftime of the Superbowl, to a woman he's never met before.  Oh, and did I mention that he's narrating his life story at 35,000 feet?  No wait, make that 34,000 feet.  33,000 feet.  As the pages descend in reverse order, so does the plane on which he is the only passenger, recording his memoirs into the flight recorder in the cockpit.<br /><br />If the rest of Palahniuk's work is as good as Survivor, then he just might be one of the edgiest, most insightful chroniclers of the warped, perverse direction that American culture has taken as we enter the new century.  He shows no mercy for our obsession with fame and glamour, or our preference for image over substance.  And he makes it very easy to take a step back and laugh at ourselves, at the silliness that we often fill our lives with.	2005-01-17
US	51079773	RT2CI5YC4OV2X	0449911934	437546793	Rabbit Redux	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The forgotten installment in the Rabbit series	Updike does a nice job here of weaving together a period piece and a character-driven novel.  I enjoyed this one more than its prequel, Rabbit Run.  This one has more energy and better pace, though it does succumb to the occasional moment of introspective navel-gazing.  The time is 1969, an exciting time for a country that is about to land on the moon but hasn't quite figured out how to play nice in the racially integrated sandbox.  Updike adopts one of my least favorite writing techniques - using his characters to deliver long-winded speeches in order to convey a social or political message on behalf of the author.  There are more subtle and graceful ways to do this, ways that don't make the reader feel like a brick has been dropped on his head.  But fortunately these lectures are infrequent enough, and surrounded by otherwise wonderful writing.  As for the character development, Updike brings his A-game.  Harry Angstrom is your quintessential everyman, simple on the surface and complex underneath.  His wife Janice is annoying beyond belief.  And the new people who enter his life, Jill and Skeeter, possess more than enough spirit and grit to compensate for the fact that they are a bit stereotypical.  While I still think the last two books in the Rabbit series are the best ones, Rabbit Redux is certainly worth reading.  Updike is one of those rare writers who can get to heart of both society and human existence.	2005-01-12
US	51079773	R11QW1RGTWONAP	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	5	11	12	N	N	So you wanna read about a child murderer, do ya?	You know a book is good when makes you queasy enough that you think you're going to vomit.  I felt that way a little more than half-way through The Wasp Factory when I read the deliciously grotesque, elaborate description of a baby whose brain was slowly being eaten by maggots after flies had laid and hatched eggs underneath the baby's delicate cranium.  And yes, the baby was still alive, cooing and gurgling.  But to be honest, I started liking this book long before that scene.  Seriously, what's not to love about Frank Cauldhame, sixteen years old, who has murdered three other children ostensibly just for the pure, sadistic joy of it.  Sure, he's obviously a bit sick, but it's hard to judge him when you have to admit that you're on his side, rooting for him, (dare I say?) identifying with him.  He's smart, creative, and possesses a self-awareness well beyond his years - well, at least he thinks he does.  And it's this self-awareness that almost makes his crimes forgivable.  He doesn't pretend to be anything he's not, and he doesn't ask for pity for any of his flaws.  And he offers us a rare glimpse into a perverse mind.  But it's his logical, methodical approach to his insane pursuits that makes it so easy to try to justify his actions in your own mind.  Is it possible to laugh at the idea of a young girl being knowingly led to an agonizing death, drowning in the middle of the North Sea?  You bet it is, especially when an author like Iain Banks is in control, allowing the reader to sit in anguish as he draws out a painfully lingering death.  This is a great book for anyone fascinated by the morbid.  Young Frank is mildly obsessed with the notion of death, the one thing that he's good at and the skill that he believes most neatly divides men from women, the killers from the life-givers.  So in an overt reinforcement of his manhood, he pursues this talent with zeal and imagination, not just on his playmates but also on rabbits, sheep, and of course, wasps.  Pity those wasps as they turn and contemplate their route through the factory, where a dozen roads lead to a dozen inevitable deaths.  Cue the insane Vincent Price laughter and get ready to enjoy a great book.e wasps as they turn and contemplate their route through the factory, where a dozen roads lead to a dozen inevitable deaths.  Cue the insane Vincent Price laughter and get ready to enjoy a great book.	2004-12-31
US	51079773	RN2HRBZAEXXD8	1400060184	739143398	Dark Voyage: A Novel	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Hopefully his previous work is better than this	Alan Furst makes up for a mediocre first 200 pages with a heart-thumping, adrenaline-pumping ending.  This was the first book of his that I have read, so I won't pass judgment on him as a writer just yet.  Perhaps his earlier books were better than this one, which was entertaining at times, especially in the final chase and battle scene, but otherwise left me disappointed.  There really wasn't a whole lot of suspense in this book, not much intrigue, and not much in the way of character development.  It certainly had potential but never seemed to take advantage of it.  The main character, Eric DeHaan, has the essential elements of a hero, yet we don't get deep enough into his psyche to really relate to him.  And other than in the final scene, there is no build-up of anticipation that one would expect from a spy thriller.  This book has the feel of a novel that could have been much more if the author had spent more time and effort on it.	2004-12-27
US	51079773	R22FROXOW36LNV	0679734937	686935242	The Plumed Serpent	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Read Sons and Lovers instead	At times lyrically intoxicating, yet mostly just a flawed, rambling novel that gets painfully tedious towards the end, this is definitely one book by Lawrence that you can safely skip.  It unfortunately isn't just bad writing - it's also a poor reflection of Mexican society.  It makes you wonder how much time Lawrence actually spent in Mexico before he wrote the book.  His depiction is stereotypical throughout, and often borders on racism.  He seems to have skimmed the surface of Mexican culture, but he hasn't gone much deeper than that.	2004-12-20
US	51079773	R33N5PM2JMM3NY	0345460863	712476023	Seek My Face: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Seek something else by Updike	Rambling, self-indulgent, and out of its league....that's how I would describe Updike's attempt to capture the life of Jackson Pollack through the eyes of his elderly widow, whose fictional counterpart agrees to sit for a day-long interview with an on-line journalist.  `Rambling' because the novel seems to have no focal point, no present tense.  It has a beginning and an end but no definable middle.  And, gosh darnit, no chapter breaks or any other logical place to stop reading and put the book down for the day.  `Self-indulgent' because it is so myopically inward-focused.  The main character and the narrative both seem completely absorbed in themselves.  And `out of its league' because, well, it simply fails to impress.  The beauty of Updike's other books is that they achieve a level of insight and brilliance that seems naturally attained.  In this one, the brilliance is forced and skin-deep.	2004-12-05
US	51079773	R14H26KPK0NWUI	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A disturbing portrait of an empty soul	This is a painful and eerie book that leaves the reader with a permanent sense of unease.  It is a book without heroes or villains.  It's impossible to cheer for Bird, the main character, since he has no redeeming qualities, and yet in an odd way it's very difficult to condemn him either.  On the surface it would seem easy to do so.  He is an alcoholic and an adulterer.  He is perpetually looking for the easy way out of his problems.  And he shows no fatherly love when he discovers that his son has been born with a drain defect.  Instead, he attempts to escape by absorbing himself completely in a far-fetched dream to journey through Africa, and by doing everything possible to ensure the speedy death of his son.<br /><br />Bird is really more pitiful than loathsome.  His utter lack of humanity and responsibility make him difficult to relate to on a human-to-human level.  The lingering impression that I have of him after finishing the book is one of a pathetic animal, not a human being worthy of human emotions.<br /><br />Perhaps Oe has tapped into that deep, dark place in the human soul where our worst demons hide.  It's a scary picture, one that most of us probably don't like to look at.	2004-11-28
US	51079773	RCTHXMR1QXO7Z	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent character sketch	This book is remarkably original and each word is full of a genuine flavor.  It's clear that this author has spent time with autistic children, enough time to really be able to get inside their heads.  The voice of the first-person narrator is just right, infused with an innocence that makes him charming but also with a frustrating stubbornness in his compulsive-obsessive behavior and his often non-sequiturial thought process.<br /><br />Mark Haddon is an award-winning children's author, and several times throughout this book I wondered whether he was ready for adult fiction.  The simplicity of the writing has a certain beauty to it, but that wears off about a hundred pages into the book and becomes a bit tedious.  And the plot is about as simple as they come.  Perhaps that was an intentional technique, to illustrate how an autistic child sees the world in terms of black and white, without the complexity of the infinite shades of gray.  Or perhaps it's because Haddon isn't skilled enough to develop an elaborate plot.<br /><br />Despite that criticism, as a character sketch this is a fine novel, and certainly worth the better part of an afternoon that it takes to read it.	2004-11-25
US	51079773	R1K23TPTC69HFP	1878424076	308690193	Seth Speaks: The Eternal Validity of the Soul	Books	2	24	73	N	N	Hokey and uninspiring	This book was recommended to me by a friend whose opinion I hold in high regard.  She said that this book profoundly changed her life when she read it many years ago.  However, it was only when I was more than half-way through the book that she decided to point out that there were only one or two ideas in the book that were worth exploring, and they came at the end.  The general concepts in this book are fascinating, but the approach that the author takes is hokey and confusing at best.  Even if you buy the premise that the author is channeling the voice of a spiritual entity who was once a 4th-century Pope, among other incarnations, the book is still going to be a disappointment.  Much of the philosophy presented is just plain rubbish.  And a lot of it is rehashed rubbish.  The author provides no new convincing arguments that our souls live on beyond the demise of our bodies.  There is one really interesting notion in this book, that every single thought that we have, whether we act upon it or not, is played out in an infinite number of alternate universes.  It's fascinating to ponder, but impossible to gain any practical benefit from it.  This book is basically a cult classic, very popular among people who already believe in reincarnation and the like.  But for the rest of us skeptics, it is not worth reading.	2004-11-23
US	51079773	RU2JJO48FI06I	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The terror of the unforeseen	Roth writes that history is \\"where everything unexpected in its own time is chronicled on the page as inevitable.  The terror of the unforeseen is what the science of history hides, turning a disaster into an epic.\\"  In this novel, Roth attempts to explore that hidden terror.  And like all great literature should, it provokes an immediate emotional reaction.  My reaction was one of anger, a slow-building anger growing page by page, directed at events that never took place though they seem not all that implausible.  This book makes many important points, the first of which is that we routinely take history for granted, as if it were somehow predetermined that events would play out one way and not another.  Rarely do we acknowledge that the course of world events is an infinitely complex web of cause and effect, an incomprehensible mix of calculation and serendipity, and that altering the smallest of details could steer history in an altogether different direction.<br /><br />Roth also makes a powerful statement about the government's ability to use its power and influence to corrupt the minds of the country.  In this book, the government takes advantage of the people's worst fear in order to further an agenda of hate and division in the name of morality.  Whether or not Roth was attempting to make a statement about the current state of our government is unclear, though it is hard for the reader not to draw the parallels.<br /><br />I have only two complaints about this book.  The first is that towards the end the story took a turn or two that went a bit beyond the realm of believability.  The mark of a good fictional revisionist history is that it must be realistic throughout.  This one was for the first 300 pages, and that made for excellent reading, but towards the end it got dangerously close to bordering on the absurd.  The second complaint is that it ended rather abruptly, without the signature denouement that Roth is known for.  But otherwise, this was an excellent book and an important book.  And it is an impressive statement about Philip Roth as a writer that we have come to expect nothing less than that from him.xcellent book and an important book.  And it is an impressive statement about Philip Roth as a writer that we have come to expect nothing less than that from him.  <br />	2004-11-11
US	51079773	R3T1XEGVS2CAUV	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	3	113	132	N	N	Overrated	Nobody out there is going to like me for panning this book.  It's one of those literary darlings that captures the hearts of the reading public, even the hearts of those who haven't bothered to read it.  It's like apple pie or that sweater that your grandmother knitted for you - you'd never actually admit to not liking it.<br /><br />This book isn't bad, but it's not as great as everyone is saying.  Nafisi has a fascinating life story, but that doesn't make her a great author.  The prose here is dull and clich&eacute;d, and no, that doesn't make her life any less interesting, but it does make it less enjoyable to read about.  There's no brilliant insight into Iranian society here.  Yeah, it's an awful place for women.  But I knew that a long time ago.  If I'm going to read 300 pages, you better tell me something I don't already know.  And there's no deep insight into literature here either, which for me was the bigger disappointment.  I'm okay with not learning anything new about Iran, but I was really hoping to learn something new about Lolita or some of the other books that her class was reading.  No such luck, which is a real shame, because this book was full of exciting potential.<br /><br />Now before you go and click that \\"not helpful\\" button, please remember that the button doesn't say \\"I disagree with this person's opinion.\\"  I already know that I'm in the minority for thinking that this book was less than it was hyped to be.  Hopefully a few reviews like mine will lessen people's expectations.	2004-11-04
US	51079773	R2L96OQLMABLLO	1400034094	957072334	Gulag: A History	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Yeah, it's that good	Reading this book was a fitting way to end my two years of living in Russia.  Though it focuses on one specific aspect of Russian 20th century history - the labor camp system - it in many ways is a broader history of the inherent flaws of the Soviet Union and its cruelty.  While it is a brutal condemnation of one of the most oppressive regimes of all time, and while it lays plenty of blame on contemporary Russian society and government for not taking more seriously their shameful past, this is by no means a book that is hateful towards Russia.  Indeed, it is clear that the author cares greatly about this country and its people.  And exposing in great detail the horrors of its past is, I think, an exercise in tough love.<br /><br />This book truly does present a comprehensive history of the Gulag system.  Usually when I finish a work of non-fiction I think to myself, \\"I wonder what else I could read on this subject.\\"  That thought did not cross my mind after reading this book.  It's all here, all the atrocities, all the key figures, the personal stories of victims, the historical context.  You won't need to read any more books on the Gulag after reading this one.	2004-11-04
US	51079773	R2JEY3RMX1CJMZ	1400040728	274492081	The Early Stories: 1953-1975	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Sex, Godiva chocolate, and Updike's Early Stories	This is the single greatest collection of short stories ever assembled.  Period.  Let me know if you find one better than this.	2004-11-04
US	51079773	RXADP8N55WEZO	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Stunning	There's one scene in this book - you'll know it when you get to it - that frightened me into a state of virtual paranoia, wondering if something similar could possibly happen to me.  It seemed so real and so plausible, and so awfully unbearable to consider.  Of course it isn't real, and couldn't possibly be real - and that's the point.  Fowles creates a world in which his main character, Nicholas, is completely controlled and manipulated by a mysterious, seemingly all-knowing, all-powerful master, Conchis.  Is Conchis doing this just for sadistic pleasure?  For the advancement of understanding the human psyche?  His motives are unclear for much of the book, and his character remains enveloped in a shroud of mystery - a trademark of Fowles' novels.  This is a beautiful book on many different levels - aesthetic, philosophical, psychological.  It explores some of the deepest and most important questions of human existence.  What is freedom?  Is human freedom compatible with the notion of God?  Are we pawns in an elaborate and complex game whose ultimate meaning we will never understand?  This is a true novel of ideas, and one that not only poses questions but also offers convincing answers.  As Nicholas begins to solve the mystery that he has lived through, it becomes more and more clear to what great lengths Conchis has gone to pull off his great experiment.  And in turn, it becomes clear to what great lengths Fowles has gone to produce a brilliantly conceived novel.	2004-10-10
US	51079773	R2YSVCM0O9NCQG	0679735739	741679065	The Information	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Left me feeling empty	Martin Amis is not what you would call a \\"generous\\" writer.  Talented, perhaps.  Witty or original, maybe.  But not generous.  He frequently strings together words and sentences that sparkle and dazzle with their elegance, that sing to the ear in a very satisfying way.  But there's just something about his writing that makes me think that he wasn't doing it for us, the readers.  He was doing it for himself.  There's no emotional connection between author and reader in this book.  At the end I was left feeling like I had been made love to by a skilled yet uncaring lover, a narcissist who performs her act not for my pleasure but for the satisfaction of watching herself in the mirror.  I want and deserve more than that from a writer.  Writing is more than just putting words down on a page, more than just creating characters and plots.  Writing is about the relationship between author and reader, and that's what is missing here.	2004-10-10
US	51079773	RNS5LWQB49HVF	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Early glimpses of brilliance	Philip Roth shows early glimpses of his brilliance in this collection of short stories.  For Roth fans, the real treat here is seeing the author's work as a young man.  If you are like me and have read all of his books from the 1990s, you probably have an image in your mind of an author in his 60s.  His writing always comes across as somewhat autobiographical, and most of the main characters in his books over the past ten years have been Jewish men entering their golden years.  Because of this, I was a bit surprised to read a book of his in which the main characters are almost all young Jewish men.  This just reinforces the notion that Roth has always tried to stick with what he knows, and that his writing stems more from his experience than from his creativity.  In my mind he's the best writer out there.	2004-10-09
US	51079773	R1DP29JBFYOZXA	0679723250	525245685	The Postman Always Rings Twice	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Intense and absorbing	This is a book that never gives you a chance to catch your breath.  More happens in 116 pages in this book than in most 500-page novels that I have read.  James Cain doesn't mess around with flowery prose or deep narrative insights into the characters or the period or anything else.  His writing is strictly minimalist, and that gives this book its raw, gritty feeling.  You don't learn much about what's going on from some detached, third-person narrator.  Instead, you get up close and personal with the characters themselves, who are all complex and fascinating.<br /><br />Much of this book is dialog, often extending for pages without even a \\"he said\\" or \\"she said\\" interspersed between lines.  Cain has a real gift for getting at the heart of his characters through dialog.  The voices of the characters are so expressive that you really don't need much narration to get a good sense of what these people are all about.<br /><br />At the heart of this story is an illicit love affair and a murder.  There is an uncomfortable tension throughout the book, so strong that I wanted to put the book down at times to wipe the sweat off my forehead and let my pulse return to a normal rate.	2004-09-23
US	51079773	R1T1Q5INQ1NQTX	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Read this book now	Part autobiography, part psychotherapy, and part philosophy, this book is one of the most important and meaningful works of non-fiction that I have ever read.  It is rare to find an author who gets right to the heart of what it means to be human.  Viktor Frankl does this with a well-reasoned theory of human motivation and an intensely powerful life story.<br /><br />Frankl's main idea, namely that man's primary motivational force is his search for meaning in life, is so simple and yet so profound.  Through his gripping account of his experience in the Nazi concentration camps, he describes how all the prisoners responded differently than others to the torture and abuses that they faced.  Some behaved like animals, while others literally gave their last crumb of bread to a fellow prisoner even though they were all equally hungry.  From this experience he developed the notion of what he calls the last human freedom - the ability to choose one's response to any given set of circumstances.  And he concludes that in order to endure the horrors of the concentration camps, it was necessary to always have a sense of a future life purpose - a believe that there was some reason to keep on living.<br /><br />Viktor Frankl's book should be considered essential reading for anyone with an interest in psychotherapy or personal leadership.  It is one of the few works of non-fiction that I have come across that has virtually universal appeal and applicability.	2004-07-28
US	51079773	R2YB0QBHS5C53S	0802151809	177279395	Sexus: The Rosy Crucifixion I	Books	3	9	28	N	N	Great porn, mediocre literature	One thing I can say for certain about Henry Miller is that he is a far better pornographer than philosopher.  His insights into human existence are hit and miss, but he definitely knows what he's talking about when it comes to sex.  And the sex, admittedly, almost makes this book worth reading.  For anyone with an imagination, it's better than Playboy or most of the stuff that you'll find in the adult section of your video store.  At least from the male perspective, Henry Miller has a firm grasp of the human being as a sexual creature.<br />As a writer and a philosopher, however, Miller falls painfully short.  He has his moments of brilliance, but not often enough.  Some passages dazzle the reader with witty, original, expressive prose.  Others are either flat or incomprehensible.  At times he reveals a powerful truth about what it means to live, but too often he rambles on about what seems to be a personal reflection that has little or no meaning to anyone in the world except for him.<br />This book would have been better - and shorter - if he just stuck with the porn.	2004-06-25
US	51079773	RMYH8NKUE5YQX	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A mini-epic with authentic voice and flavor	While I won't go so far as to say that this was the best book of the year, as pretty much every book reviewer and prize committee seems to have done, I will say that this is an important work of literature and one that is worthy of reading and re-reading.  My only criticism is that it introduces just a few too many characters early in the novel, and this flaw creates confusion during the first half of the book.  I found myself at times trying to remember who was who, and how they were all related.  But other than that, this is a great book.  Many reviewers have compared it to Toni Morrison, for obvious reasons.  I actually found that the prose and story were more reminiscent of Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurtry.  Like Lonesome Dove, this book maintained throughout a sense of an epic journey, and of a world and lives that had existed long before the story began and would continue to exist long after.  The prose is simple and honest, with a sound of period authenticity.  As for the characters, many are memorable, but none stood out as a true hero or anti-hero of the novel.  If this were a movie, it would be a true ensemble cast with no clear starring role.  I think that is what gives the book such a genuine feel.  It is not just a story of one man or woman, with lots of other characters circling around the spotlight.  Rather, it is a portrait of life in the South prior to the Civil War.  The book is not about the characters, per se, but rather about the world in which they live.  Jones has done a wonderful job of portraying this world in a way that doesn't seem to glorify or condemn any of it.  It would have been easy to fall into that trap of making some sort of political statement with this novel, but Jones cautiously leaves that for the reader to decide.  What Jones does, instead, is bring to light a fascinating period of American history, and by focusing on a black slave-owner, he has created an awareness that I think was lacking in American literature.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	RN2DZSJR0V24	0679725164	143378173	No Exit and Three Other Plays	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Great drama, great philosophy	No Exit is a tautly written that works on both the dramatic and philosophical levels.  With only one act, four characters, and no set other than a sofa and chairs, this play takes minimalism to its extreme.  The tension is palpable throughout.  Sartre creates a perfectly unworkable triangle of personalities in Garcin, Inez, and Estelle, and within this triangle the dramatic tension steadily builds.<br />The real beauty of this play is that its message can be interpreted in many different ways.  It's not entirely clear what Sartre is trying to say about human nature here.  I've heard some people argue that the main point is that the company of other people can be a form of hell.  I think this is way to simplistic.  If anything, Sartre might be trying to say that hell is a self-fulfilling prophecy - that these people, realizing that they were in hell, created among themselves a set of circumstances that was hellish.  The logical converse of that idea would therefore be that by exercising their free will, they could have chosen otherwise.  Then there is also the interesting question of why these people are in hell in the first place.  Here Sartre makes a strong argument that people have a moral responsibility to act in the best interest of humanity as a whole - something that none of these characters can claim to have done.<br />While existentialism as a movement has long since been abandoned by most philosophers, this play has lived on, and rightly so.  It's well worth the hour that it takes to read it.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	R2KL3GD3QQ2C4Y	0375401466	160007841	Old School	Books	5	30	31	N	N	The best book I've read so far this year	For the handful of impatient readers out there who have barked at me for recommending 500+ page epic novels such as The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &amp; Clay (three years ago) and Middlesex (last year), this book is for you.  Weighing in at just under 200 pages, this novel is just as much a heavyweight as much lengthier works of literature that I have sparred with this year.  John Updike's The Early Stories, for example, a massive and brilliant collection of some of the best short fiction out there, had me up against the ropes for the better part of two months.  In contrast, Old School can be read in the better part of an afternoon.  And yet despite its meager size, as quality literature this book could go toe-to-toe for twelve rounds with pretty much any book out there.<br />First and foremost this is a book for book-lovers, for readers who treasure literature and writing as essential elements of our humanity.  It is a book about writers, about famous ones like Ayn Rand and Ernest Hemingway and Robert Frost and about young, aspiring ones at an east coast boarding school in the early 1960s.  At this school, students compete for an individual audience with a visiting writer - the student who submits the best short story or poem, judged by the famous writer, wins the prize.<br />But this book is more than just an ode to great writers and great writing.  It is a novel about morals and ethics, and about the gray areas that cloud our judgment.  It is a novel about the development of human character, about the differences that separate us and the ties that bond us together.  It is at times humorous, at other times tragic, and still at other times triumphant.  But throughout, it is undeniably honest and human.<br />So go ahead - open this book and smell the September leaves as they fall on this school campus.  Feel the excitement in the air - the excitement of being young, the excitement of learning, the excitement of growing up and being on the verge of adulthood.<br />A 2003 National Book Critics Circle Award finalist, Old School is without question one of the best books of the past year./>A 2003 National Book Critics Circle Award finalist, Old School is without question one of the best books of the past year.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	R3D34B3LE30O1V	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An amazingly original achievement	Reading Nabokov, it is impossible not to get the impression that this is an author who knows that he is 100 times smarter than his readers.  Not only that, he also feels no shame in making that abundantly obvious with every sentence that he writes.  Reading Pale Fire is the literary equivalent of turning around in circles until you get so dizzy that you fall over, punch drunk and hysterical.  You feel sick and disorientated, but you also get the sense that the process was somehow fun and - dare I say - worth it.<br />Whether you like this book or not - and personally, I can't say that I loved it - it is hard to deny what an amazing achievement it is.  Nabokov first writes a 999-line poem - the equivalent of T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land, in length if not in quality.  He then writes a foreword to the poem, and a line-by-line commentary, as if the poem were written by someone else.  And by means of the commentary he weaves an imaginative, suspenseful adventure that is so obviously fictitious that it immediately becomes real.  There's no denying that this is brilliantly creative and original writing.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	R2UMD608LXSMPB	0679750290	385867085	Operation Shylock : A Confession (Vintage International)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Not the best book by Roth, but still worth recommending	This is the second Philip Roth book that I have read in which the author himself is a main character.  In the other one, Patrimony, Roth came across as a humble, compassionate, good-natured human being.  In this one, he comes across as an egomaniacal, paranoid, self-aggrandizing jerk.  I've read more than a half dozen of his novels, and I consider him to be the best American writer alive today, so the bitter taste that I was left with after reading this book likely won't last long and won't tarnish my overall impression of him as a writer.  But still, I have to wonder how much of the character of Roth in this book is fiction, and how much of it is true.  Despite its pretense of being a true confession, this book is obviously a work of fiction, so one could conclude that the character of Roth is just that - a character and nothing more.  But to dismiss without further exploration would be to oversimplify it.  After all, this is Roth writing about Roth, and surely he made this a first-person account for a reason.  Obviously he wanted to use this writer-as-character technique as a mechanism for conveying his personal opinions.  And on top of that, he creates another character of the exact same name and similar in appearance to serve as a foil or alter ego.  Neither character, unfortunately, comes across as sympathetic - one on purpose, but not the other.  The Roth who narrates this book is cruel, selfish, self-centered, and immature.  I lost count of how many times the character commented on his quest for the Nobel Prize - always in a facetious, backhanded sort of way to make it seem like it wasn't a big deal to him.<br />My other main criticism of this book - and I think I'm allowed to write this since one side of my family is Jewish - is that this book is too, um, Jewish.  Roth is obviously known as an author who writes about the Jewish experience, so it's no surprise that this theme appears in yet another of his books.  But here it's not just a theme - the whole book is about being Jewish.  I have to wonder if that will limit the appeal of this book to a narrow audience.  Even I found it tedious at times.  I much preferred his other books in which the Jewish experience was one element of a much broader, deeper message.<br />That said, I still recommend this book.  After all, it is Philip Roth, and his expert craftsmanship is evident throughout the novel.  The humor that he is known for pops up every now and then as well, though not as much, perhaps, as in his other (better) books.k is about being Jewish.  I have to wonder if that will limit the appeal of this book to a narrow audience.  Even I found it tedious at times.  I much preferred his other books in which the Jewish experience was one element of a much broader, deeper message.<br />That said, I still recommend this book.  After all, it is Philip Roth, and his expert craftsmanship is evident throughout the novel.  The humor that he is known for pops up every now and then as well, though not as much, perhaps, as in his other (better) books.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	R6RFLT1JKGHES	1557831629	114348069	Chekhov: The Major Plays	Books	2	5	26	N	N	No heros, no talent	Living in Russia it is hard to avoid reading Chekhov.  He is considered Russia's best playwright, and a foreigner in Russia is not considered to be truly educated in Russian culture until he reads Uncle Vanya, The Cherry Orchard, and The Three Sisters.  This book sat on my shelf for close to two years before I finally sat down and read it.  Somehow I knew it would be a struggle, and one not worth the effort.  And I was certainly right.<br />Uncle Vanya is one of the worst plays ever written.  It is awkward, stilted, and boring.  Since it is only about 60 pages, it doesn't really have a chance to build up any kind of dramatic tension - not that it would have been any better had it been twice as long.  The characters are forgettable, and the plot is stale.<br />The Cherry Orchard is slightly better, but not much.  First of all, it is labeled as a comedy.  I have no idea what exactly is funny about a woman who left her country after losing both her husband and her son within a month of each other, and returned five years later so financially ruined that she was forced to sell her estate.<br />The Three Sisters is probably the best of his works, but that's not saying much.  Here, at least, there is a truly wicked character - someone to root against in the absence of someone to root for.  But despite the predictably sad ending, the play is not a tragedy.  It's just a real downer.  Whereas a good tragedy will tweak at your heart, this play just leaves you feeling dirty.<br />The sad thing about Chekhov's plays is that there are no heroes, no loveable characters, no one to root for.  They are perhaps of minor interest in the sense that they reflect something of Russian culture and society at the time - the beginning of the fall of the landed aristocracy, the bitterness and difficulty of life, etc.  But that doesn't make up for the fact that this is bad writing, pure and simple.	2004-06-17
US	51079773	R9EPJGEK0TTE9	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	2	7	23	N	N	Disappointing	This book never grabbed me the way I had hoped it would.  None of the characters is particularly engaging, and indeed some are barely tolerable.  This is a 360 page book that reads like a 600 page book.  I'm not what you'd call a plot-junky, but this book was just too slow and too boring.  There are only three or four memorable scenes in the whole book, and only one of them possesses any dramatic tension.  I think Forster set out to make a statement about relations between colonial power and colonized people.  Certainly he accomplished that, but then again he could have done it in a page or two.  Instead he threw together a mediocre work of literature to demonstrate his point.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R19TA870H13NJD	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A classic story of good vs. evil	Umberto Eco, in the foreword to his The Name of the Rose, suggests that it is not the job of an author to explain his work.  From this assertion he goes on to argue that the title of a book should give away as little as possible as to the content of the novel.  Simple titles, such as ones that simply identify the main character (Oliver Twist, Jane Eyre, etc.) are acceptable.  Even better are titles that give no hint at all of the subject matter, and the best titles are the ones that are in fact completely misleading.<br />Umberto Eco certainly would have applauded Bram Stoker.  Dracula, the novel, is in fact not at all about Count Dracula.  The character of Dracula appears for a grand total of less than 100 pages in this 400 page novel.  The main characters in this book are the two women that he bites, and the handful of gentlemen that resolve to hunt him down and kill him.  And though Dracula is eventually the focus of their attention, for the better part of the novel they don't even know of his existence.  If you are expecting a suspenseful, gory thriller that follows a blood-thirsty killer on his nocturnal adventures, like in the movies, you may be disappointed.<br />Still, with the right expectations, this is a perfectly enjoyable book.  It paints an interesting picture of an age very much caught up in righteousness and religion.  It's a classic story of good versus evil, with few gray areas.  And it introduces a character who was destined to become the most famous villain in the history of literature.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R2PAPEUTTWY9K9	0375760903	271537012	The Coffee Trader: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Good book, though not as good as his first one	Fans of Conspiracy of Paper, the first book by David Liss, will find much the same intrigue and imagination in this, his second book.  It's worth reading, though it's not quite as intelligent, intricate, or suspenseful as his debut novel.  I'm not sure if he dumbed this one down slightly on purpose, or if the bar was just set extremely high by his impressive showing with the previous book.  Either way, this book was certainly enjoyable, though probably not a book I will remember years from now.<br />One thing Liss has going for him is that he seems to have cornered the market on an intriguing literary niche - the European historical/financial mystery.  If there's anyone out there writing in this same sub-genre, they certainly aren't doing it as well as him.  While there is nothing particularly profound about his writing, he does have a talent for capturing a period in a way that feels authentic.  With a slightly more simplistic plot, I think his novels would adapt nicely into movies.  There is so much flavor to them, the reader can easily visualize the sets and the costumes that would be used.<br />There's also something very readable about his prose style.  It has a European whimsical feel to it that makes his writing very pleasant to absorb.<br />The plot here has just enough characters and twists to keep it interesting, though not so complicated that you'll have to jot down key facts to remember what is going on.  It borders on bubblegum fiction, but Liss is intelligent enough to keep it elevated just a notch above that level.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	RE4FB68QQ4P7T	1569472424	377475451	Death of a Red Heroine (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	1	7	36	N	N	If you like bad kung fu movies, this book is for you	This is easily the worst book I have read this year, and really I have to think way back to remember a book as bad as this one.  Let's start with the plot.  This is supposed to be a murder mystery.  That would normally imply intriguing plot twists, misdirection, exciting discoveries, and a surprise ending.  In this book, there is only one murder suspect; he is identified in the middle of the book; and (how's this for a shocker?) he ends up being the killer.  How exactly is that a mystery?  Now for characters.... There are a bunch of them, and some are mildly entertaining in a mindless, childish sort of way.  None is truly memorable, not even Chief Inspector Chen who \\"solves\\" the case.  They are all, without exception, one-dimensional and stereotypical to the point of insulting the reader.  And lastly, prose.  This book reads like a bad kung fu movie dubbed into English.  During most of the dialogue I couldn't help imagining the characters on the big screen, with their lips moving about two seconds before or after the words are spoken.<br />Please tell me there won't be a sequel.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R81RRVWXA2PJI	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Tedious but worth reading	Though at times painfully tedious in its detail of 14th century Catholic theology and annoyingly esoteric in its numerous passages in Latin, I feel I must give this book a positive recommendation.  Its grand scope of chronicling such an obscure period, its depth of research, and its feeling of authenticity give this book the right to be considered an epic of modern fiction.  As far as mysteries go, this one certainly is not the most intriguing.  It drags at times, and the final revelations are neither startling nor intricate in their conception.  But as a period piece, this is a 500-pound gorilla.  It's amazing to think of the amount of scholarly research that went into the making of this novel.  How many hours did Eco have to spend studying the writings of Aristotle, Aquinas, and who knows how many Franciscan and Benedictine theologians?<br />I have to admit I came close to putting this book down after 100 pages.  I'm glad I didn't, though it was a struggle the whole way through.  There were a few too many characters, and at times I couldn't keep track of all the different monks, but fortunately they start to get killed off pretty quickly so there are fewer to remember.<br />The underlying theme is an important one to me.  The book explores the medieval notion that religious faith and intellectual pursuits should be mutually exclusive.  Imagine living your life as a monk, working in a library surrounded by thousands of scholarly works, and spending your days copying texts that you don't understand.  The preservation of knowledge is a noble goal, but so is the advancement of our understanding of the universe.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R3EU1EAX329CDT	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Why books should not be written in weekly installments	Three major pitfalls are usually inevitable in the work of an author who publishes his novels in serial format for literary magazines, as Charles Dickens did.  The first is that the medium does not allow for editing and revision upon completion of a first draft.  The second is that the author is under the constant pressure of a weekly deadline.  And the third is that the author is paid by the word.  All three flaws are glaring in David Copperfield.<br />If Dickens had been able to look over this novel as a whole, surely he would have made serious revisions to it.  The dramatic tension of the plot is poorly calibrated.  It peaks a half dozen times throughout the book, which only confuses the reader and leaves him feeling betrayed when the plot simply moves on to something else.  What was the point of the climax in the early pages of the book, when Mr. Murdstone takes over Copperfield's happy home and begins to wreak havoc?  Murdstone's character should have reappeared later in the book in more prominent fashion, as the evil foil to our hero, and he surely would have in a book that had been properly revised as a holistic work.<br />There are certainly many memorable characters and scenes in this book, but there are also several that should have been left out.  But writing fifty chapters keeps an author employed for fifty weeks, and that is why this book is 750 pages instead of 450.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R3R0CBHE4UAWPT	0192833928	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Great political treatise, lousy literature	Bless him for keeping this one short, unlike his contemporaries in Russian literature.  Unfortunately, the fact that this book is 200 pages is the best thing I can say about it.  This is so clearly the case of an author who had a political statement to make and decided, unwisely, to couch it in a fictional as opposed to non-fictional format.  This would have made for a great political or sociological treatise, but it is not good literature.  The characters and plot are so obviously secondary to the message.  The characters are one-dimensional, predictable, and transparent.  The plot is forgettable and really almost seems to have been an afterthought.  The only real merit of this book is that it captures the birth of an important social and political movement, at a very pivotal time in Russian history.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	RU02FXN7LQIGK	0786887672	913926982	Cad: Confessions of a Toxic Bachelor	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Lighthearted and fun	There's nothing profound or meaningful about this book, but it sure is a good read.  All guys will surely nod their heads in sympathy as they read each episode in this guy's landmine-filled love life.  And I think most women would find it insightful, in a lighthearted sort of way.  Rick Marin really does get right to the heart of what it means to be a single guy - not that we are all that complicated, mind you, so I'm not saying his achievement is worthy of any kind of prize, be it literary or sociological.  But this book could have easily been written badly by a lesser author or lesser human being.  Marin, I think, demonstrates quality in both categories.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R2N9BMNXJRCDBW	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A true novel of ideas	Let there be a space forever reserved for this book in that most exclusive of literary categories - the novel of ideas.  Here we have an author with something important to say about the fundamental nature of life as we know it.  Kundera is a world-class philosopher, cleverly disguised as a world-class writer.  Rarely do we come across someone who wears both hats so comfortably.<br />Yes, there is a wonderfully layered and textured story here.  And for most writers and readers that would be enough.  But the story is certainly secondary here to the powerful message that Kundera delivers about what it means to be human.  In the first few pages he cuts to the core of man's existence in a complex, unpredictable world.  I grabbed my highlighter after just seven pages, having already come across three basic Truths - yes, with a capital `T' - that I wanted to come back and revisit.  \\"What can life be worth if the first rehearsal for life is life itself?\\"  Therein lies one of the most complex questions ever asked.  And in this book lies one of the most eloquent answers ever given.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R34QJYCYBP91GX	0316291161	474944569	The French Lieutenant's Woman	Books	5	51	53	N	N	A true masterpiece	In the first hundred pages of this book I had already begun to realize that this was one of the best books I have ever read.  That feeling never let up; indeed, it grew even stronger as I approached the end, when I began to feel a frantic eagerness to discover what would become of these characters that I had grown to care so much for.<br />Sarah Woodruff (aka the French Lieutenant's Woman) is one of my favorite characters in literature.  She is a complex, nuanced character, intriguingly covered by a delicate veil of mystery throughout the first half of the book.  Her pain, her selfless sacrifice, and her courage are deeply and powerfully drawn.  She is a true example of a woman ahead of her time, a woman who challenges the norms of her society by simply ignoring them.  Her confidence and her quiet scorn for the Puritanism of the times in which she lives raise her to a level above the so-called moral leaders who condemn her.  In a strange way, she is a true hero.<br />This book, written in the late 1960s but set one hundred years earlier, is a beautiful example of period literature.  Fowles, through his remarkably genuine narrative voice, recreates the world of Victorian England in such a way that if it weren't for the occasional references to modern life you might think the book was a century older than it is.  It is filled with all the pomp and formality you would expect, but also with a wit, dry humor, and quiet mocking of the period that lend it an added flavor.<br />But Fowles is not simply trying to create a period piece or social commentary.  I believe that first and foremost he was creating a love story.  I would put Charles and Sarah in the same category with Romeo and Juliet as far as love stories go.  The relationship is developed slowly, so slow that it is exquisitely painful almost.  And though the time they spend together is brief, it is filled with an unmistakable air of eventual tragedy.<br />The only question left in my mind is whether to categorize this book as a classic of modern fiction or of 19th century fiction.  It could easily stand in either section of my bookshelf.this book as a classic of modern fiction or of 19th century fiction.  It could easily stand in either section of my bookshelf.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R1OI2GL8803FMP	0394757009	366121902	Rock Springs	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Ford is a better novelist than short story writer	I'm a fan of Richard Ford's novels - The Sportswriter was one of my favorite novels ever, and Independence Day was a worthy sequel.  But there is something about his short stories that simply leaves me feeling empty.  The depth of human emotion and existence that he reaches in his novels simply does not have enough time and space to develop in a story of 15 or 20 pages.  And as a result, he offers glimpses of his great talent, but no hard evidence.  He scratches the surface of his characters' identities but never has a chance to develop them fully.  These are snapshots, or sketches, each of them fascinating in the same way that Picasso's sketches of Guernica are fascinating.  The preliminary drawings are only worth something in the context of the final, grander work of art.  And here, unfortunately, the sketches are the final work of art.  With each of these stories I felt myself wishing that Ford would expand them into a novel.  Who are these characters?  Where do they go?  What happens to them in five or ten years, or even tomorrow?<br />That's not to say that this isn't a good collection, because as far as short stories go, these are certainly worth reading.  Even in 15 or 20 pages, Ford does manage to achieve an intimacy with his characters that is remarkable.  And as with many short story collections (Cheever's and Carver's, to name two), in Rock Springs there is a powerful sense of place, as if the lonely towns of Montana were themselves main characters.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R3TRCYUR1U973P	1400040981	743153044	Shipwreck	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A top writer at the top of his game	This is the third book that I have read by Louis Begley, and though they have all been outstanding, this one is by far the best.  This is the book that solidifies him in my mind as one of the best authors alive today.<br />In case the title of the book is not a strong enough hint that there will be no happy ending to the story, Begley quickly sets a tone of personal destruction and moral failure.  His main character, John North, opens the book by approaching a stranger in a bar, and offering to buy him a drink if he will sit and listen to a story that North has never told anyone before.  The story is a long one, told over several days and several bottles of whiskey.  And the silent listener, whose name we never learn, whose voice we never hear, and whose judgment we never receive, is described as being nearly identical to North in every detail - a physical manifestation, perhaps, of North's troubled conscience.<br />And yes, his conscience has ample reason to be troubled.  The tale he tells is one of deception, weakness, and tragedy.  North, a prize-winning novelist, recounts to his companion the details of his affair with Lea, a young French journalist who interviews him for an article about his latest book.  North succumbs to his desire for Lea, despite his love for his wife Lydia and his fear of the pain she would suffer if she were to discover his infidelity.<br />Begley proves in this novel that he is both a gifted storyteller and a master of painting with words the entire spectrum of human emotions.  His first-person narration is infused with an overwhelming feeling of honesty, ruthless self-reflection, and guilt.  Begley writes about love as well as he does about fear, about lust as well as he does about anger.  As a character, North is one of the most genuine I have found in literature.  He hides nothing from us, makes no excuses for his weakness, and delivers his self-condemning story with unflinching honesty.	2004-05-14
US	51079773	R3LOB8IKH7UBM2	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Worth the 20-year wait	Shirley Hazzard has been MIA from the world of published fiction for so long that I would guess that most of my generation has never heard of her.  Her last book, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award, was written more than twenty years ago, and though it is now considered a modern classic it remains in relative obscurity.  Having just finished reading The Great Fire, I can hardly imagine why a tremendous talent like this would take such a long hiatus from writing novels.  One can only wonder at the many wonderful works of literature she would have produced, and we would have treasured, during these past two decades.<br />Hazzard writes with stunning emotional gravitas.  She is one of the few writers who truly make each word count.  This is a 278-page book that feels like it's twice that long, and I mean that as the highest of compliments.  Each page is so full of meaning and feeling, each sentence so perfectly crafted, each word so carefully chosen.  So much attention was put into the writing of this novel that one feels an obligation as a reader to devote extra time and attention to the reading of it.  This is one of those rare books that could be read over and over, each time offering new insights and never losing its power.<br />The subtlety of the prose lends an understated sense of passion to the beautiful yet somewhat painful love story that unfolds between the main character Aldred Leith and the young Helen Driscoll.  He is a decorated war veteran, recently arrived in Japan to document that country's post-war transformation.  She is a 17-year-old girl, wise beyond her years, the brave companion to her older brother who is slowly dying of a degenerative disease.  Their love is unlikely, and naturally forbidden by her parents, and yet it is so undeniably right.  Hazzard convinces us of this, but gracefully so, as if simply leading us to our own discovery of what is true.<br />What truly amazes about this book is that it is about so much more than just this one relationship.  There are no superfluous characters here; each has a purpose and identity in and of themselves as well as in their relation to the main characters.  Peter Exley is the intriguing foil to Aldred, also a war veteran but one whose battle scars have not healed so easily.  Benedict, Helen's ailing brother, lives with great spirit and courage and serves as a mirror reflecting the beauty within his sister's heart.  Aldred's estranged father looms as a distant ghost.  Aurora, the father's long-time mistress, brings Aldred somewhat painfully back to a past from which he has perceivably moved on.  Even Professor Gardiner, whose appearance at the beginning of the novel lasts but a few pages, adds depth and significance to the pages that follow even though he never reappears.<br />Note especially the elegance of Hazzard's prose, how she seemingly reads the minds of her characters and gracefully transitions from dialog to narrative with a third-person omniscience that reads like first-person self-reflection.<br />The National Book Award committee has chosen well this year.st this one relationship.  There are no superfluous characters here; each has a purpose and identity in and of themselves as well as in their relation to the main characters.  Peter Exley is the intriguing foil to Aldred, also a war veteran but one whose battle scars have not healed so easily.  Benedict, Helen's ailing brother, lives with great spirit and courage and serves as a mirror reflecting the beauty within his sister's heart.  Aldred's estranged father looms as a distant ghost.  Aurora, the father's long-time mistress, brings Aldred somewhat painfully back to a past from which he has perceivably moved on.  Even Professor Gardiner, whose appearance at the beginning of the novel lasts but a few pages, adds depth and significance to the pages that follow even though he never reappears.<br />Note especially the elegance of Hazzard's prose, how she seemingly reads the minds of her characters and gracefully transitions from dialog to narrative with a third-person omniscience that reads like first-person self-reflection.<br />The National Book Award committee has chosen well this year.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	R14OIKBGUB7CFG	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Exploring the depths of the human spirit	This book is both profoundly meaningful and intensely funny - a rare combination in literature.  The character of Henderson is big, loud, jovial, and full of passion.  He performs a constant high-wire act, tiptoeing between extremely loveable and just plain annoying, and always manages to fall in the direction of the former.  He is educated and experienced in life, but at the same time ignorant and nave in many ways as well.  He is a lover of adventure and challenge and yet has managed to coast through most of his life until he comes face to face with his African adventure.  It is the dueling forces at work inside him that make him such a fascinating character.<br />Saul Bellow creates a highly entertaining, though also highly stereotypical, African world as the setting for Henderson's life awakening.  At times I felt guilty for laughing at the way he characterizes the African tribes, with their silly superstitions and bizarre traditions.  In a way it seemed a bit racist, but in the end I concluded that Bellow was simply exaggerating the Western stereotypes of black Africa, so really he was poking fun at us, not at them.  I found the dialog between Henderson and King Dahfu superbly written.  The educated, intellectual voice of Dahfu gradually became more and more natural, but was a constant reminder of the preconceived notions that most white people have about other races.<br />So what was this book about?  I think it was about the human urge to explore both the far edges of the earth and the far edges of the human spirit.  Henderson seeks adventure, but he also seeks to find something within himself, something that he knows is there but that he can't find at home.  He challenges himself, and through this challenge he grows as a person.  And it is because of this growth that he is able to return to where he began, and truly appreciate that place.<br />I think there is also a strong message about the commonalities that exist between all humans, regardless of where they come from.  Henderson travels thousands of miles to places where white men have never gone before, and yet he finds there a king to whom he can relate quite easily.  Though this is a highly fictionalized account, there is a good bit of truth to the underlying message.they come from.  Henderson travels thousands of miles to places where white men have never gone before, and yet he finds there a king to whom he can relate quite easily.  Though this is a highly fictionalized account, there is a good bit of truth to the underlying message.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	RCS6OZ54WWIDI	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Not your typical Booker Prize winner	This is not your typical Booker Prize-winner.  If you are expecting something along the lines of A.S. Byatt or Ian McEwan, something with a recognizable British Commonwealth feel to it like many Booker selections have, you will be quite surprised.  Pleasantly surprised, I would guess, because Vernon God Little is a fresh, lively novel that smacks you in the face and cusses you out before you have time to put a crease in the binding.<br />Language is the key to success in this spunky little book.  Pierre creates a central-Texas vernacular that is so genuine that the book reads as if it were written by a beer-guzzling redneck with a ninth-grade education.  But Pierre does more than just capture a regional idiosyncrasy; he also captures the heart and mind of a teenage boy, troubled and angry and rebellious in a world that doesn't give a kid like him a break.  There are no characters in this book; these are real people living real lives, embellished and exaggerated with just the right touch by the author for artistic emphasis and effect.  Their voices and their occasional insanity give the book the tangy, gritty barbecue flavor of a chicken wing platter that's been dropped on a sawdust floor.<br />Vernon has a lot to say about American life and culture, and most of it is right on the money.  He is quick to condemn the materialism and superficiality of America's heartland with its strip-malls and big hair and daytime talk show obsession.  And the mockery that he makes of a tragic school killing spree is a ruthless commentary on just how easily we have come to accept a culture of guns and violence.  Sometimes it takes an outsider to give us a true glimpse of ourselves.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	R3PKPPDA5G1ECF	0140238107	692398731	The Master of Petersburg: A Novel	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Prose that reads like an authentic Russian text	What is amazing about this book is that Coetzee's prose reads like an authentic translation into English of an original Russian text.  To some that may not seem like an impressive accomplishment, or even a desirable characteristic of a novel.  But think about how difficult it must have been to do this.  He had to have abandoned his practiced and perfected prose in order to learn an entirely different style of writing.  He must have read countless translations of Russian novels, particularly Dostoevskiy's (and perhaps even the original texts?) in order to begin to feel the cadence and rhythm of the language.  The result is a feeling of period and environment that rings of authenticity.  The prose actually serves as a conduit for getting closer and more intimate with the story's main character of Dostoevskiy.<br />Other than that, this is a fairly mediocre book, certainly not worthy of mention in the same breath as Disgrace or several other works by this Nobel Prize winning author.  But for lovers of things Russian or for fans of Dostoevskiy, it could be an interesting read.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	R2RS35B4E3241N	0679776443	879822150	Dead Souls	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Interest commentary on Russian society	An ambitious man in 19th century rural Russia attempts to increase his wealth and societal rank by purchasing dead peasants who, due to lengthy delays between census-takings, are still on the books.  It's a brilliant premise for a Russian novel because it says so much about Russian society, both past and present.  In this premise is reflected the endemic corruption of the Russian public sector.  It also paints an ugly but not far from accurate picture of moral bankruptcy taken to extremes.  And it portrays a prevalent truism that persists in modern-day Russia, namely that the appearance of wealth is just as important as wealth itself.<br />For the premise alone, this novel deserves to be recognized as an important work in the annals of Russian literature.  But the credit for the premise belongs not to Nikolai Gogol, but rather to Alexander Pushkin, Gogol's contemporary and Russia's poet laureate.  Pushkin suggested the idea to Gogol, and Gogol enthusiastically developed it into a 400 page novel that could easily have been written in half that length.<br />Gogol's writing is whimsical and entertaining, but it's also sloppy.  Of all the 19th century Russian authors, Gogol is the one who suffered most from not having a word processor.  There are structural flaws to this novel that one assumes could have easily been corrected by the author if he only had the ability to cut and paste.  There are also numerous passages of the original manuscript that were lost, presumably not by fault of the author, but nonetheless frustrating to the reader.  The novel is divided into two volumes, but they are seriously disjointed, and volume two fails to live up to the standard set by the promising beginning.<br />As a social critique, this is excellent work.  So excellent, in fact, that it surprises me that this book made it past the official censors in tsarist Russia.  As literature, however, I'd have to give it a less enthusiastic endorsement.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	RU3HOJVXCLVMW	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Powerful, though a bit preachy	Bigger Thomas is one of the most compelling characters that 20th century American literature has produced.  He commands both hatred and sympathy at the same time.  He is full of evil and yet also very human.  He is one of those characters that will haunt his readers long after the book has been closed.<br />Richard Wright should be applauded for his courage in choosing to take the approach he did with this novel.  He does not create a typical hero who will inspire others.  He does not try to paint black America in rosier shades in order to convince the white majority to give up their prejudices.  Instead he gives us one of the worst of the bunch, a directionless punk, a criminal, an abuser of women, a young man full of anger and hatred.  And yet we see the world through his eyes, and only his eyes, and eventually we come to see the humanity in him, despite his many flaws.  We come to care for this kid, even after he commits two heinous crimes, and (dare I say?) we even hope for his escape or an acquittal in the courtroom.  Why is that?  Perhaps it is because the inevitable outcome is so obvious, so preordained.  We want to hold on to a small glimmer of hope that perhaps there will be something to cheer for.<br />Wright gets a bit preachy at times, especially at the end when Max makes his passionate plea for mercy on Bigger's behalf in the courtroom.  It reminded me of the 96-page radio address at the end of Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged.  Fortunately Wright keeps his speech to under 10 pages, but I'm always a bit annoyed when authors completely abandon subtlety and simply decide to speak through their characters like through puppets.  I'm not sure it was even necessary in this case.  Throughout the book Wright presents a powerful indictment of American society, and the reader does not need to be beaten over the head with a brick (excuse the stolen reference) in order to get the point across.  But that being said, this is an excellent book, and a very important book, one that should be taught widely in high schools.that should be taught widely in high schools.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	R11OQ7OV6L1XWZ	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow!	This is a stunningly beautiful book, one of the best I have read in a long while.  Chevalier has created a heroine who is at once a hopeless underdog and a certain champion.  Griet is both an engaging narrator and a loveable character.  Vermeer's character is drawn less descriptively but nonetheless equally fascinating.  He is shown as a masterful artist and also as a human being.<br />The novel builds with a steady, powerful tension despite the fact that we all can guess what is going to happen.  I loved the descriptions of Vermeer's painting process.  The scenes in which he is studying and drawing Griet are sensual and smartly written.  I found myself flipping back to the front cover of the book to study the painting as I read about its creation.  Everything is there, exactly as Chevalier describes it in her story.  The folds and shadows of the cloth in her hair, the wetness of her lips, the expression on her face as she turns to look over her shoulder, the faint glow in her eye as it catches the light of the earring, and of course the pearl earring itself.  With each element that is added in the story, the painting on the cover becomes more and more real.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	R15A9XXP3UXNYK	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One man's struggle with mediocrity	Richard Ford won the Pulitzer Prize for Independence Day, a good book but not nearly as good as his masterful The Sportswriter, which he wrote several years earlier and for which he received great reviews but no prize.  Russell Crowe won the Oscar for Best Actor for his role in Gladiator, an impressive performance but not nearly as impressive as his work in The Insider a few years earlier, which the Academy chose not to honor.  There is a long list of examples of awards given to deserving people, but not necessarily in recognition of their most deserving work.  Richard Russo, who won the Pulitzer for Empire Falls in 2002, is certainly on that list; his 1997 novel Straight Man is without doubt his best book.<br />Russo has done what only the greatest of writers are able to achieve - he has arrived at the essence of human emotion, of human existence really, and he has laid down his findings with eloquence, humor, and honesty.  Straight Man is both laugh-out-loud funny and incredibly serious.  It is the story of Hank Devereaux, Jr., acting chair of the English Department of a mediocre, small-town Pennsylvania university.  After threatening on the local news to kill a duck a day from the campus pond until his department receives a budget, his life takes a series of unexpected turns.  Devereaux takes them all in stride, never failing to see the humor in his misfortune.  Beneath the humor is a middle-aged man coming to terms with his place in life, gradually accepting his move from left field to first base on his softball team and all the symbolic implications that go along with it.  We also see a man struggling to decide whether mediocrity is good enough for him, as it seems to be for those who surround him.<br />Straight Man is a profound meditation on the unpredictable nature of life.  Russo tries to teach us that the best way to live through the unexpected turns and disappointments, both big and small, is to learn how to laugh at yourself.  There is humor in every situation, and those who can find it eventually find happiness as well.uation, and those who can find it eventually find happiness as well.	2004-01-12
US	51079773	RKDM5OOB5ZF7F	061809525X	267283819	The Caprices	Books	2	7	15	N	N	This won the Pen/Faulkner?	I wouldn't necessarily say this is a bad book.  But I certainly wouldn't say it's a good book either.  The most remarkable thing about it is just how forgettable it is.  For such a short collection of stories, you wouldn't expect to have completely forgotten the first two or three by the time you reach the end.  And you certainly wouldn't expect it from a book that won the Pen/Faulkner Award.<br />Suffice to say that I was disappointed by The Caprices.  The stories were sometimes bland, sometimes disjointed, rarely fully developed and never all that entertaining.  The characters are too often one-dimensional, a common pitfall in short stories but one that is avoided easily enough by better writers.  Murray has found a distinct literary voice, but not a particularly engaging one.  There's nothing in the prose that would keep me awake at night if the plot failed to do so, which it did more than once.<br />To put Sabina Murray in the same category as Stephen Crane, as one critic has done, is completely unjustified.  Perhaps the high praise is simply because the subject matter - wartime experiences in the Philippines and elsewhere in the Pacific - is relatively fresh and untouched.  For that I suppose she deserves some credit, but it's not enough to carry an otherwise mediocre work.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R1VQ60CXIK9W7B	0451158717	895691342	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Witty, sassy, funny!	Brilliantly vitriolic, witty, and sassy, this is one of the most engrossing and readable dramas you are likely to come across.  At its most basic level, this play is so simple - just four characters, one room, and all the action taking place in the space of a few hours.  But in terms of substance this is a powerfully rich and complex work of genius.  The writing cuts like a sharp knife, the characters are exquisitely developed and original, and their chemistry is charged with an undeniable energy.<br />The characters are at odds with each other throughout the play, and yet it is difficult to takes sides with only one of them.  They are all both likeable and dislikeable at the same time.  George is a mean-spirited passive-aggressive with a huge chip on his shoulder, but it's impossible not to root for him as he joyfully attacks his wife, Martha, for her fondness of the bottle and various other sins.  Nick's demeanor is just a tad holier-than-thou, but it is easily forgivable given the outrageous treatment he is forced to endure throughout the evening.  Honey, his wife, is a ditz and a lush, but loveable in the same way as an Irish Setter.  Any one of the four could easily carry the show, and together they create a powerful tension that keeps the play moving at a brisk pace.<br />It is easy to see why Albee's writing has earned him a Pulitzer Prize.  What is surprising is that is was another, lesser-known play and not this one that he won it for.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R2D0E9H6P0QLUN	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	4	44	48	N	N	America's (lack of) response to genocide	While this book is far from perfect, it certainly is the most comprehensive examination of the issue of genocide that I have come across.  It's also an extremely compelling condemnation of America's lack of will in responding to genocide when it occurs.<br />Power begins with a look at the origins of the term \\"genocide.\\"  One of the many things I learned from this book is that the term is relatively young; in fact, it did not come into existence until after World War II, when a genocide survivor by the name of Raphael Lemkin introduced it into the English language.  The story of Lemkin's life and his struggle to bring cases of genocide to the attention of American policymakers is one of the many inspiring, though frustrating, narratives in this book.<br />After a useful overview of what genocide actually means, Power methodically takes us through cases of genocide in the 20th century.  She gives six examples: the Armenians in Turkey in the 1920s, the Holocaust, the reign of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, the Iraqi oppression of the Kurds, the Tutsi in Rwanda, and the Muslims in Bosnia and Kosovo.  For each she makes a solid argument for why these atrocities should be considered genocide.  She also gives a systematic analysis of how the U.S. responded, or in many cases didn't respond.  She argues that it was not for lack of knowledge, nor for lack of ability, but rather for lack of political will that America delayed taking action or refused to take any action at all.  In Cambodia, the wounds from Vietnam were too fresh to justify another South East Asian military intervention.  In Iraq, our hopes of maintaining a strong opponent to Iran in the Middle East prevented us from taking a hard line against Saddam in the 1980s.  In Rwanda, our failures in Somalia still haunted us.  And of course the underlying theme in all of these cases was that policymakers in both the executive and legislative branches of government consistently fell back on their belief that preventing genocide in faraway places was not of interest to the American people, and therefore was not good politics.<br />Power is highly critical of U.S. policy, but to her credit she is critical consistently across the board.  The book is non-partisan; she attacks the Reagan and Bush Administrations as much as she does the Clinton Administration.  She also casts blame fairly evenly between the policymakers at the White House and State Department and the legislators in Congress.  It is also important to note that she goes to great efforts to recognize those elected officials and career civil and foreign servants who went to great lengths to make the prevention of genocide a top foreign policy priority.nocide in faraway places was not of interest to the American people, and therefore was not good politics.<br />Power is highly critical of U.S. policy, but to her credit she is critical consistently across the board.  The book is non-partisan; she attacks the Reagan and Bush Administrations as much as she does the Clinton Administration.  She also casts blame fairly evenly between the policymakers at the White House and State Department and the legislators in Congress.  It is also important to note that she goes to great efforts to recognize those elected officials and career civil and foreign servants who went to great lengths to make the prevention of genocide a top foreign policy priority.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R12YYDNVXW8HMG	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	3	7	14	N	N	This is a novel of affirmation?	This book was definitely interesting.  It was most certainly memorable.  But was it uplifting?<br />I feel more than a bit funny just asking that question, much less answering it.  Not being black myself, I'm probably not the best person to decide just how inspiring this book is.  The story to me came across as very real.  It has its moments of joy and humor, but it also had plentiful helpings of sorrow and pain.  So where is the inspiration?  How is this the prototypical Black novel of affirmation?  Is the affirmation found simply in the telling of the story, no matter how sad?  Does putting the pain and sorrow into words of beauty somehow empower the victim?  Is it the fact that the heroine perseveres in the face of so much adversity, and finds joy in life when there is little to find?<br />Honestly, I felt more pity for Janie than anything.  Time and again she proves to have an enormous heart, her most endearing quality as a character and also the one that gets her into the most trouble.  She is trusting when perhaps she shouldn't be, loving when perhaps she shouldn't be, and forgiving when perhaps she shouldn't be.  Her judgment is less than perfect and is often clouded by emotion.<br />It's hard to find inspiration in any of the other characters either.  Joe Starks is too ambitious, mostly in the pejorative sense of the word, and shows little respect for Janie.  Tea Cake comes across as conniving, deceitful, and manipulative.  And none of the other characters seems all that bright.<br />But maybe it's precisely in the realism of the story that the inspiration lies.  Perhaps it's meant to be a celebration of enduring against adversity, both from without and from within.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R29P7MPV44GZZ6	0316926051	253013485	A Handful of Dust	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Distinctly British and distinctly Waugh	There is no better way to describe this book than \\"glacially sardonic,\\" the words that appear in the review on the back cover.  It is written with a sharp-biting wit that moves and builds ever-so-slowly yet ever-so-surely.  While I don't agree with the majority of literary experts that this is Waugh's finest work (Brideshead Revisited was more ambitious in scope and crafted at a level of mastery equal to or better than this), A Handful of Dust is a remarkably intelligent book and a pleasure to read.<br />Waugh has found here the perfect blend of plot and prose.  The story is engaging, entertaining, and quick-moving, thanks to the terse dialog and minimal narrative.  Humor abounds in this novel, but not in the laugh-out-loud sort of way.  I found myself on the verge of laughter throughout - I would call it a sustained crescendo of humor.  It's a type of humor that I can't imagine finding in American literature; it's distinctly British, and distinctly Waugh.<br />But this book is more than just funny.  It offers a somewhat profound commentary on the decadence of upper class life in 1930s Britain.  One can't help laughing at the way Tony Last and Lady Brenda have named the bedrooms in their country estate after characters from the King Arthur stories.  \\"Where will our weekend guests sleep?  How about in Galahad?\\"  Waugh has perhaps exaggerated the eccentricities of the people whom his characters represent, but his point is well taken.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	RE3X577X2JWCN	0670031305	183103177	Elizabeth Costello	Books	4	46	51	N	N	One of the world's best philosopher-novelists	This is a novel of ideas, profound ideas, written by someone who is not just a great author but also a great thinker.  Coetzee has found a way to wrap a great many conceptual and philosophical arguments into a novel of the sparest proportions in terms of plot, character, and prose.  There really is no plot to this book, and only one main character.  It is as if Coetzee did not want the traditional elements of the novel to stand in the way of his greater purpose in this work.  Amazingly, Elizabeth Costello is still very readable, a testament to the author's skill and grace.<br />This is certainly the most introspective of Coetzee's novels.  His main character, Elizabeth Costello, is an aging Australian novelist of international acclaim, and she certainly resembles the author in many ways.  Coetzee uses her as a vessel through which he wrestles with some of the more difficult questions out there.  Do humans bear a higher responsibility towards the protection and humane treatment of animals?  Are there topics so ugly and dark that writers have a moral obligation to stay away from them?  What is the nature of salvation?  These are the weighty issues that Coetzee takes on here.<br />What is truly impressive is his ability to argue both sides of these questions in a remarkably coherent and convincing fashion.  At first one naturally assumes that the opinions expressed by the main character are also those of the author.  However, the novel's minor characters, whose primary purpose is to rebut Elizabeth's arguments, are at times more convincing than Elizabeth herself, who often takes extreme positions that are difficult to defend.  In this way, the reader is not so much lectured to, which would be tedious, but rather asked to think deeply about these important questions.  Coetzee clearly has his statements to make, but he does so with a subtlety that may escape the casual reader.<br />This book, while not as good as his masterful Booker Prize-winner Disgrace, is certainly representative of a Nobel laureate at the top of his intellectual game.epresentative of a Nobel laureate at the top of his intellectual game.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R2O4JH05AYIFTV	0670031720	28976631	Drop City	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not his best work	I'm a huge T.C. Boyle fan - loved The Road To Wellville and consider him to be one of the best short-story writers in the business.  But I was rather disappointed with Drop City.  It's not a bad book, but it falls short of what every fan knows to be Boyle's true potential.  The premise and plot are promising.  A group of hippies is forced off their California commune and naively journeys north to Alaska to live off the land.  There they encounter a group of locals who are well-accustomed to the harsh winters and rugged living, and not at all eager to have new neighbors.  It's a good recipe to start from, and the characters are well-drawn and quirky in a way that is distinctly Boyle.  But the writing itself is lame.  It's as if Boyle dumbed it down to appeal to a lower common denominator of readers.  Or maybe he just didn't try as hard with this one.  In any event, the result is a book that is good pop fiction but not really literature, and that's disappointing for a writer of his stature.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R14H950U1FUTD7	0618251286	970216239	What We Lost: Based on a True Story	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A stunningly beautiful novel	\\"A meditation on the permanence of glancing moments...\\"  A perfect description for this remarkable piece of writing.  This book reads like a novel but is actually a true story about the author's father and his experience on his uncle's dairy farm as a child.  You'll learn more from this book than just how to milk a cow.  This book, in so subtle a way that you might not even notice, teaches a powerful lesson about the irreversible consequences of every decision, both big and small, that we make in life.  Every moment of our lives will be with us forever, both in our memory and in the affect that it has on our future.  Each step we take not only leads us somewhere but also takes us away from somewhere else.<br />Dale Peck is a writer of incredible grace.  This book is divided into two parts, so extremely different from one another that you have to wonder for the first few pages of the second part whether you are even in the same story.  But just as your confusion starts to turn to frustration, Peck ties his stories together in a beautiful and seamless way, building your anticipation and then slowly bringing you back down only to build it back up again even higher.  This book is nothing short of masterful.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	RD5F4M81LGBGT	0679752935	969122148	Patrimony: A True Story	Books	3	5	16	N	N	Parent-child role reversal	This is more than a book about Philip Roth and his father.  This is a book that explores the father-son relationship in general.  Roth eloquently traces the process of role reversal in which child becomes parent as his father's health gradually deteriorates.  What he reveals is that this is by no means an easy or natural process.  His father resists at every turn his son's attempts to care for him, clinging desperately to the pride and self-respect that painfully elude him as his independence disappears.  And for Roth, the son, the process of coming to grips with the mortality of his father is equally difficult.  This figure in his life that he has looked up to as indestructible is suddenly revealed to be human, and the son is forced to deal with the loss - not just the loss caused by his father's death, but also the loss of security that came before that as he slowly assumes the role of responsibility vis-&agrave;-vis his father.<br />This is also a book about the human tendency to fear and resist death.  It is a testimony to the courage of the human heart, the courage to fight death and the courage to finally accept what is natural.<br />It is only fair of me to point out that of the seven Roth novels that I have read, this is the worst.  That said, it is still better than 90 percent of the books I have read.  That's simply a testament to how good a writer Roth is, that even his worst performances are still worthy of prizes like the National Book Critics Circle Award, which Patrimony won.<br />What I didn't particularly care for in this book was that it made no attempt at being anything other than autobiographical.  It read more like a personal journal than a novel, and Roth's ability to create wonderful characters was hampered by the fact that he wasn't really creating anything at all here; rather, he was simply recording the events and emotions of his actual life.  It thereby loses the feel of being a novel.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R32A0XLM5TRZUI	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Extremely fluid, unbelievably incomprehensible prose	Considered perhaps the finest example of 20th century literature, this is the enormously frustrating, mind-numbingly convoluted, semi-autobiographical expression of one man's spiritual and intellectual awakening.  I feared this book for years, and rightfully so.  While the prose is immensely fluid - so much so that you barely notice the fact that you've easily read several paragraphs without understanding a word of it - the substance will prove more of a challenge than most intelligent readers are looking for.  Unless one devotes an enormous amount of mental energy to close examination of this text, a basic understanding of the plot and message is the most the average reader will come away with.  Alas, I opted for the easy way out, and as such, I'm sure there is plenty in this novel that eludes me.<br />Joyce creates the character of Stephen Dedalus to describe his own experience as a boy growing into manhood.  Joyce first examines Stephen's youth, giving careful attention to his family life and upbringing as powerful defining forces in his life.  He then focuses on Stephen's spiritual development during his years at a strict religious boys' school.  The latter part of the book explores Stephen's embarking on adulthood, as he presides over a battle inside himself between religious faith and intellectual pursuit.  It is in this phase of his life that the artist, the writer, emerges victorious.<br />How this all happens, however, is a cloudy, murky mess, unless you bothered to re-read passages several times and consult secondary sources that might offer insights into the book.  While the writing is beautiful, it is also choppy.  And while the substance may very well be brilliant, it is often too obscure to be appreciated.  Surely that was Joyce's intention.  This novel was meant to explore uncharted territory in form and structure, and Joyce has certainly done that.<br />I will say this much - it wasn't as difficult as I had feared.  Despite its inherent challenges, this book is a quick read and is by no means unpleasant.  It's simply unsatisfying to invest time and energy in a book, and then come away with only a partial understanding of it.his book is a quick read and is by no means unpleasant.  It's simply unsatisfying to invest time and energy in a book, and then come away with only a partial understanding of it.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R3KOCME77WKT47	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	3	23	24	N	N	Well written, but a real downer	At first I was tempted to describe this book as a tragedy.  After all, there is little to cheer about, few if any moments of true joy in this book.  But that's not the definition of tragedy.  Tragedy is when a sympathetic main character meets an unfortunate end that was either unexpected or avoidable.  In this book, Carson McCullers gives her readers no reason, ever, to think that her story will end happily.  There is a sense of pre-destined failure in each of her five main characters.  They all have hopes, dreams, and desires - some more noble than others - but none has an aura of optimism or promise.  As clich&eacute; as it sounds, reading this novel is in many ways like watching an unavoidable train wreck in slow motion.<br />To her credit, McCullers does an admirable job of maintaining the pace and rhythm of her narrative, despite the inevitable outcome.  As pathetic and hopeless as each character is, they each possess a strong will and determination to follow what is in their heart.  No matter that what is in their heart is often misguided - a fact that is painfully obvious to the reader.  Because their hopes and dreams are real to them, they earn the readers' sympathy - or at least the readers' pity.<br />But at the risk of sounding shallow and superficial, this is a real downer of a book.  You hope against your better instinct that Singer, the loveable mute who devotes his life to a friend unworthy of his love, will find what his heart is searching for.  You pray that against the odds Dr. Copeland will find a way to redirect his feelings about race relations towards positive, fruitful ends.  You believe that just maybe young Mick, full of energy and ambition, will pursue her dream of becoming a classical pianist.  And while you set the bar much lower for Jake, the drunken drifter, you perhaps at least hope that he will find a way to stay out of trouble.<br />Each pursues his lonely journey is his own way.  And through these journeys McCullers goes deep into the realm of personal despair, exploring her characters' pain in a way that is painful for the reader as well.  In the end, you feel like you have suffered with the characters, which depending on how you look at it, makes this both a well-written book and book you may be glad to put behind you.lm of personal despair, exploring her characters' pain in a way that is painful for the reader as well.  In the end, you feel like you have suffered with the characters, which depending on how you look at it, makes this both a well-written book and book you may be glad to put behind you.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R3256W282ZFI5D	0192804561	777518205	Oxford Book of Aphorisms (Oxford Books of Prose)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Serve up some wisdom on your coffee table	This is an ideal book for the coffee table, guest bedroom, or bathroom, but also one that will stand proudly on the bookshelf next to Bartlett's Famous Quotations and other prestigious literary reference books.  The entries are witty, entertaining, often quite profound, and well organized throughout.  The sources are varied but nearly all of the names are widely recognizable.<br />An aphorism is defined as \\"a short, pithy statement containing a truth of general import.\\"  In the introduction to this volume John Gross offers several distinguishing characteristics of the aphorism.  Though the term `maxim' is often used as its synonym, an aphorism is considered more speculative, and sometimes more subversive than a maxim.  While aphorisms offer insights and wisdom, they differ from proverbs in that they are not apocryphal.  And while they are universal, they also generally bear the personal mark of the author.<br />Goethe, Nietzsche, Chekhov, Voltaire, Spinoza, Wilde, Yeats, James...but a few of the authors included in this book.<br />To give a flavor of the kinds of entries, consider these from the chapter on religion.<br />\\"Probably no invention came more easily to man than Heaven.\\"<br />\\"Heathen, n.  A benighted creature who has the folly to worship something that he can see and feel.\\"<br />\\"If God created us in his own image, we have more than reciprocated.\\"<br />And if you don't like those, there are fifty other chapters to choose from.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	R15WA3EO97BWEM	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hurray for the underdogs!	This book is a gripping read and an inspiring story, albeit at times a bit too melodramatic.  I'm not sure if the actual events themselves were such a soap opera or if Hillenbrand's interpretation and style of writing make them come across that way.  Whichever it is, it makes for exciting, entertaining reading, but it will also make even mildly cynical readers roll their eyes when Seabiscuit, for the umpteenth time, overcomes life-threatening injuries and insurmountable odds to achieve heroic victories.<br />This is certainly a fascinating story, especially if you like to cheer for underdogs.  There is something magical about how these four characters, three men and a horse, all started out with few advantages and rose to the top through hard work and believing in themselves and each other.  The relationships that develop, both among the men and between man and horse, are quite touching.  And Seabiscuit himself is a remarkable character, filled with personality and idiosyncrasies and charm.<br />The writing is fluid and the story is well constructed.  Hillenbrand has a gift for building suspense.  I have to admit I was on the edge of my seat as I read the passage about the challenge race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral.  The energy and excitement in the prose made me feel as if I were there watching the actual race.  That's the definition of good writing.<br />My only complaint is that I had this feeling throughout the book that Hillenbrand was playing with the readers' emotions, building us up for a big victory when she knew that disaster loomed around the corner, and preparing us for the worst in order to make Seabiscuit's successes seem that much more noteworthy.  I lost count of the times that Seabiscuit or his jockey had some career-ending injury, only to race again days or weeks later.  I also got tired of how Hillenbrand over-dramatized the amount of weight that Seabiscuit was required to carry in comparison to his competitors.  The first time he carried 130 pounds was certainly a milestone, since no horse had done it before, but after he did it a dozen times and won more often than not, I think it was safe to say that the weight was fair.30 pounds was certainly a milestone, since no horse had done it before, but after he did it a dozen times and won more often than not, I think it was safe to say that the weight was fair.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	RFD5AVWJB19P9	055321439X	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Boring and forgettable	It's been nearly three weeks since I finished this book and I remember very little about it.  I found it truly unremarkable.  It's on the Modern Library Top 100 list - quite high on the list, in fact - and it has been said that many of the great American post-war writers owe a huge debt to Anderson for laying the groundwork for this type of writing.  I just don't see it.  Anderson tries to take boring, unsympathetic characters and demonstrate the beauty of their boring, unsympathetic lives.  His prose is meant to achieve a certain level of elegance in its simplicity, but instead it simply comes across as soporific.<br />Winesburg, Ohio is a town that is supposed to represent any small town in middle America, and the stories in this collection deal with the everyday lives of its inhabitants.  Each story feels like it has the potential to be something better than it is, but they all fall short.  Anderson achieves his goal of creating very human characters, but if his intention was also to create inspiring or sympathetic characters he has failed in this regard.  Instead of portraying their humanity through their goodness or their strengths, he focuses on their flaws and their sins.  And this left me feeling unfulfilled, as if there was a whole other side to the story that had been inexplicably removed.	2003-11-18
US	51079773	RWT78EK32805O	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Beautiful but hokey	There's something to be said for novelty.... it's fresh, it's exciting, and inevitably it captures the reader's attention.  The Lovely Bones has novelty built right in from page one, when we are introduced to our narrator who is - um - dead.  Not only dead, but also telling us her story from heaven.  From this vantage point she has a perfect view of the events on earth, both past and present, and can narrate with an omnipresence that comes across quite naturally.  She darts from character to character, slipping in and out of private conversations, reading minds and hearts in a way that no ordinary narrator could.  She also offers us a tour of a place none of us has seen before - heaven, or more precisely her heaven, a paradise built around her life experiences and dreams.<br />This is a promising beginning.  However, the problem with novelty is that it eventually, inevitably wears off.  When this happens (it was about half-way through the book for me) the tenderness of the narrator's voice turns hokey, and the passages that were once touching and magical become a little too saccharine-sweet.  I really loved this novel for about 150 pages.  Then, slowly, I started to find myself rolling my eyes through significant portions of the second half.  It wasn't the writing that changed - it was just that I had hit my threshold for this kind of writing.<br />Still, the book was worth reading.  It's oversimplified, and there are several glaring flaws - among them the lack of explanation for how a family simply welcomes back the mother who deserted them for eight years - but on the whole it is not a bad book.  There is a lot of beauty and love in this story, enough that it is possible to overlook the fact that it is formulaic to the point of being predictable.  My guess is that when I look back at this book in a year, I will remember it not for its flaws but for its beauty.	2003-08-11
US	51079773	R2JXU0LIORELGT	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	3	39	42	N	N	An often-overlooked Russian classic	This book has got it all -- decapitations, crucifixions, vodka-drinking cats, and naked women flying on broomsticks.  What's more, it is a refreshing change of pace from the 19th century works that most people think of when they hear the term &quot;Russian literature.&quot;  Bulgakov is no Tolstoi or Dostoevskiy, and I mean that as a compliment.  All three are top-notch writers, each in his own way.  But where Bulgakov differs from the latter two is in his ability to infuse his work with a light-heartedness, even when the subject matter is serious.  While Tolstoi is known for epic tales on the grandest of scales, and Dostoevskiy for his penetrating insights into the darkness of the human soul, Bulgakov breaks from his predecessors by creating fiction with flare, stories that dance off the page, with an undeniable element of humor that is extremely rare in Russian literature.<br />This edition of Master and Margarita is a bit choppy in the translation, but it more than makes up for that minor flaw by providing an excellent set of comments on the text at the back of the book.  This is one of those books that is so much easier to appreciate the more you understand the historical references and the social context of the story.  Bulgakov, in addition to be a master of the pen, was also a capable historian and keen observer of society and politics.  His novels, particularly this one, make this clear.  In Master and Margarita, thanks to its novel-within-a-novel structure, you have not one but two socio-historical portraits, both of them exceptionally accurate.  Bulgakov showed no fear of the Communist censors, depicting with remarkable honesty the Soviet Union of the 1930s.  (No wonder this book didn't see the light of day for several decades.)  But perhaps more impressive is his portrayal of a period which he did not witness first-hand.  Through the character of the Master, Bulgakov relates a completely unorthodox, though not at all unbelievable, account of Jesus' trial and crucifixion from the perspective of Pontius Pilate, who comes across as most sympathetic and likeable.<br />As one would expect, the two stories are flawlessly woven together.  Parallel plot lines and similarities between the characters in each story make the novel that much richer, that much more of a literary achievement.  It is no surprise that most Russians consider this to be their finest example of 20th century literature.nd crucifixion from the perspective of Pontius Pilate, who comes across as most sympathetic and likeable.<br />As one would expect, the two stories are flawlessly woven together.  Parallel plot lines and similarities between the characters in each story make the novel that much richer, that much more of a literary achievement.  It is no surprise that most Russians consider this to be their finest example of 20th century literature.	2003-08-07
US	51079773	R1OZFI73RSRUC4	1841951722	461943586	The Assassin's Cloak: An Anthology of the World's Greatest Diarists	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A treasure	January 1, 2003:  Bought this collection of diary and journal entries based on a review that said it would be a great book to leave in the guest bedroom for visitors.  Have resolved to read a day's worth of entries each morning, and finish the book in one year.<br />February 16, 2003:  Have discovered that this book is much more conveniently placed in the bathroom, where I am sure to spend five minutes each morning, rather than the guest bedroom.<br />April 13, 2003: What a remarkable collection of fascinating historical figures!  The featured diarists are carefully chosen, as are the selected entries.  Together they span four centuries and at least as many continents.<br />June 1, 2003:  Have started to develop personal favorites among the many diarists.  Pepys, for his unrepentant lasciviousness.  Chips Channon, for his loveable pretentiousness.  Kafka, for being Kafka.  Warhol, for being Warhol.  Coppola, for her intriguing insights into the life of her film-making husband.  Woolf, for her introspective moodiness.  Gide, for his sarcasm and arrogance.<br />July 5, 2003:  Have become utterly addicted to my morning routine with this book, and have now started reading ahead.<br />July 29, 2003:  Have only two minor complaints so far.  One is that the diarists are predominantly British - perhaps a more diverse selection would have been better.  The second is that there is a disproportionate number of entries during the WWII time period.  Without doubt a fascinating and important time, historically, so I guess this is understandable.<br />August 7, 2003:  Finished the collection, almost five months early.  Will now return this book to my guest room, where friends and family will be sure to enjoy it for years to come.	2003-08-07
US	51079773	RBSVC6HOYGXBE	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	2	4	21	N	N	Overrated	I have to admit that I just don't get it.  I'm baffled as to why Ray Bradbury is considered such a genius.  This book, considered one of his best, really doesn't stand out to me as anything all that special.  The plot is cute, at best.  It's not terribly creative; in fact, it's quite formulaic and often predictable.  The characters are interesting, but not in any profound sort of way.  And the writing is choppy and unrefined.  I might give this book to an 11-year-old looking for a quick, easy read.  But I have to believe that the past forty years have produced better material in the way of fantasy fiction.	2003-07-29
US	51079773	R1BO57D7YPSHR9	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Om	This is one of those books that leaves you asking more questions than it answers.  What are we to make of Siddhartha?  Has he found truth and wisdom?  Was his journey meaningful, or was it a waste of time?  There are probably as many answers to these questions as there are readers of this book.  And I think that's the point.<br />Hesse even teases us at the end, when in their climactic final encounter Govinda asks his lifelong friend Siddhartha to share his discoveries and insights into the meaning of life.  Siddhartha's answer is profound yet vague, insightful yet circular in logic.  He answers his friend's question, and yet in a way he doesn't.  In a sense he leaves his friend, and by extension the reader, to find his own answers.<br />Whether or not this book hands you on a silver platter the answers to life's burning questions, I think most readers will find it inspiring.  Its central message is that the search for wisdom is not about arriving at the end, but rather about the journey itself.  Also, that meaning comes from within, and each person must define meaning in his own way.<br />So what are we supposed to make of a man who abandons his home as a young man, journeys through the wilderness living a life of asceticism, shacks up with a prostitute and assumes a lavish, decadent existence, then dumps her to go finish his days as a humble ferryman, where he listens to a river that teaches him the meaning of life?  I honestly don't know, and if I did, I'm sure my answer would be different from yours.  And we'd both be right.	2003-07-24
US	51079773	R2N42ZITB4NGCE	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Best book of the year	Jeffrey Eugenides has pulled off a stunning performance in Middlesex.  Merely describing what this book is about is a challenge in itself.  It is multiple stories in one, spanning multiple generations, crossing oceans and continents and then back again.  It is a book that raises the bar for achievement in narrative voice, and one that will break your heart not once but countless times.<br />Imagine the challenges inherent in writing a first-person account of an adolescent hermaphrodite.  Eugenides has managed this achievement flawlessly.  The character of Calliope is exhaustively researched, and rings genuine throughout the novel.  Her voice is delicately balanced between female and male, in a way that is astonishingly natural and sincere.  More impressively, the narration transitions from young girl to middle-aged man - now Cal, 25 years later - with seemless ease.  The voices are distinct and unique, separated by both age and gender, and yet at the same time they are genuinely the same.<br />This is so much more than just a story of a young girl's budding awareness of her sexual identity.  In fact, the novel is more about her family of Greek immigrants than it is about her.  With an elegant pre-fetal omniscience, Calliope tells the history of two Greek siblings who married and fled Turkey in the 1920s, then settled in Detroit and passed along a rare recessive gene to their grandchild.  The story is infused throughout with detailed depictions of small Greek villages, juxtaposed against vivid scenes of urban city life.  Each word carries a powerful feeling of authenticity and unflinching honesty.  Each character is fascinating to observe.  Desdemona, the superstitious grandmother whose magic spoon has correctly predicted the sex of 23 unborn children.  Lefty, who pursues the American dream with relentless energy, only to see it ruin him.  Milton, the archetypal first-generation American, cocky and arrogant, savvy and ambitious.  Mike, the rebuffed pursuer of Tessie, who turns to the Church but never loses the chip on his shoulder.  Chapter 11 (whose real name we never learn), Calliope's rebellious older brother, and The Obscure Object (ditto), her best friend with whom she begins to explore her sexual identity.  And Calliope herself, one of the most intricately developed characters I have come across in modern literature.<br />I have only two minor complaints about this otherwise flawless book - both of them aimed more at the editor than the author.  The first is that there are no less than four typographical errors, truly unforgiveable in a work of this magnitude.  The second, and more egregious, is Cal's casual mention of the American Embassy in Istanbul.  Any Foreign Service Officer knows that the capital of Turkey is Ankara, and so should a good editor.e, who turns to the Church but never loses the chip on his shoulder.  Chapter 11 (whose real name we never learn), Calliope's rebellious older brother, and The Obscure Object (ditto), her best friend with whom she begins to explore her sexual identity.  And Calliope herself, one of the most intricately developed characters I have come across in modern literature. <br />I have only two minor complaints about this otherwise flawless book - both of them aimed more at the editor than the author.  The first is that there are no less than four typographical errors, truly unforgiveable in a work of this magnitude.  The second, and more egregious, is Cal's casual mention of the American Embassy in Istanbul.  Any Foreign Service Officer knows that the capital of Turkey is Ankara, and so should a good editor.	2003-07-23
US	51079773	RANZT4OA1LGR8	0140172270	387356969	When All the World Was Young (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Glad to be done with this trilogy....	I can say this much in praise of When All The World Was Young -- if you really enjoyed the first two installments of the trilogy, you will not be disappointed by the third.  It has all the charm and innocent playfulness that Sams fans have come to love, plenty of adventure, and even some sex and violence for those of us who just can't take any more of this hokey, precocious, wide-eyed boy.<br />Count me in the latter group.  I think I'm just tired of Porter Osborne, Jr.  He's just too....uml....nice.  And even when he shows a slightly nastier side, it's just not believable.  Sams made an attempt at creating edgier dialog in this one -- after all, we're dealing with enlisted men in the army now -- but it just doesn't ring true.  He hit the mark in the first novel, when Porter was a young boy.  That's the voice that Sams writes best.  Unfortunately, that voice is still with us in this book, even though Porter is now 22 years old.  The character has supposedly matured, but the writing has not.  And so it's impossible to picture anything other than an eight-year-old farmboy.<br />Read this book if you loved the first two.  Otherwise, I think you can safely skip it.	2003-07-21
US	51079773	R15P46XPWMQGCM	0375724427	253343732	The Stories of John Cheever	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A portrait of a generation	Like most good short story writers, John Cheever has his niche in time and place.  His is the world of New York middle class life in the 1940s -- as he himself puts it, &quot;when almost everyone wore hats.&quot;  It was also, it seems, a time when every man worked a nine to five office job and took the commuter train home to Shady Hill.  A time when his wife, who regretted giving up her talent and ambition for the life of a lonely housewife, would either have an affair with the milkman or pass her time shopping and catching matinees in the city.  A time when cocktail parties were the Friday night routine, and every other family was named Farquarson.  Yes, this is Waspy America at its peak, in its heyday, and no one that I know of has captured it so crisply, so honestly, and so compassionately, as John Cheever.  If F. Scott Fitzgerald captured a generation in the 1920s, the same can be said of Cheever two decades later.	2003-07-09
US	51079773	R3PAXJJB8MSW3J	0140248307	667558266	The Cunning Man	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Elegantly crafted and narrated	When I read Fifth Business I knew instantly that Robertson Davies would become one of my favorite authors.  The Cunning Man has confirmed that opinion.  Davies is the master of creating passive observer narrators, characters who are fascinating in and of themselves, but remain just aloof and removed enough so as not to feel like they are influencing the course of events in the story.  Dr. Jonathan Hullah, the cunning man, is just that type.  Observant, witty, charming, and opinionated (when an opinion is required), he narrates an engrossing tale that spans his entire lifetime.  As he beautifully unfolds the mystery behind the death of Father Hobbes, as well as weaving several other elegant plot lines, he reveals throughout his thoughtful insights on humanity.  This is a delightful book.	2003-06-27
US	51079773	R3P0NDJW2AEB5A	039914255X	550174718	Eat Right 4 Your Type: The Individualized Diet Solution to Staying Healthy, Living Longer & Achieving Your Ideal Weight	Books	3	6	9	N	N	What do you mean I can't eat chicken???	I can't offer any feedback as to whether or not this diet works, as I have not yet tried it.  I can say that the logic seems to make sense, and the theory is supported by substantial research.  The basic idea, that each blood type is unique and therefore requires unique types of nourishment for optimal performance, is a breakthrough discovery if it is indeed true.<br />The book is well written and conveniently organized so that you can skip significant portions that do not deal with your personal blood type (unless, of course, you want to).  And if you are only interested in diet recommendations, you can skip the last section that lists various diseases and ailments and describes how certain blood types are more susceptible than others.  Interesting stuff, but I think most people will buy this book to help them craft a healthy diet, not to learn whether they are likely to get breast cancer.<br />I have to admit that I am a bit skeptical of the recommendations.  Give up chicken?  No tomatoes?  Stop eating wheat?  These are the big problem foods for blood type B, and I'm having trouble imagining just how I will avoid them.  More importantly, I'm wondering whether I will really feel any healthier.  I guess we'll see.	2003-06-04
US	51079773	R3DYTEVSSPH26O	0449909476	446925396	As Max Saw It	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A modern classic	Reminiscent of The Great Gatsby yet 100% original at the same time, this novel has all the makings of a classic of American literature.  This is a novel of epic proportions, packed into less than 150 pages.  It spans three decades and traverses three continents.  It is beautifully paced, at times flowing like a gentle stream, offering nuanced, elegant prose and character development, then switching purposefully and gracefully into much broader brush strokes to account for the passage of time.  This is the book for which Begley will be remembered several generations from now.<br />As with the great first-person narrators in classics like Brideshead Revisited and Fifth Business, Max Strong is a keen yet passive observer, comfortable enough blending into the scenery so as not to obstruct the reader's view of the novels fascinating characters.  Charlie, the brilliant, extravagant architect with an ego to match his talent, bobs in and out of Max's life, first appearing at an Italian villa where he and Max have been invited as guests, then in Beijing where Max has offered his legal expertise while on sabbatical from Harvard Law School, then again in Cambridge, MA and the Berkshires where Max works and vacations respectively.  Their relationship is both antagonistic and co-dependent, as Max serves as conscience and confessor for Charlie in regard to the latter's romantic involvement with Toby, the young, attractive, and troubled youth that Charlie takes under his wing.  And yet, while Max rarely asserts himself as anything more than an astute narrator, the book is just as much about him as it is about those that he observes.<br />It is a remarkable accomplishment that Begley has expressed so much beauty in so few pages.  His settings and his characters sing with authenticity, and his prose offers the perfect current to carry his flawlessly-crafted story.	2003-06-02
US	51079773	RGHLOBHKPFA1H	0140083871	442823917	The Whisper of the River	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Charming character, charming book	Much like its predecessor Run With The Horsemen, The Whisper Of The River is a delightful read if you accept it for what it is - a thoroughly entertaining, unpretentious novel that makes no claims to be more than that.  Ferrol Sams is a talented storyteller with a gift for developing characters and settings rich in authenticity.  In this novel, the second in Sams' trilogy, Porter Osborne, Jr. entertains us with his college years, full of new friendships, coming-of-age experiences, and fraternity pranks.  The novel introduces an impressive cast of entertaining characters, including a crude, football-playing roommate, a pretentious French professor, and a spirited, jovial cafeteria employee.  Porter forms special bonds with each character he encounters, and it is these friendships that form the heart of his college years.<br />My one and only complaint is the same one that I had with the first book in the trilogy.  The writing lacks any sense of realism, and feels a bit too sugar-coated.  Porter is constantly doing good, and rarely experiences setbacks or hardships.  Sams would have done well to take some risks in his writing.  Instead, he chose the easier approach of simply creating a pleasant read.	2003-05-27
US	51079773	R264ZRYLPPEHNH	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	1	34	72	N	N	Stunningly incomprehensible	Thomas Pynchon has duped the entire literary world with this 800 page assortment of random words and phrases that at times come together in complete thoughts, most likely unintentionally.  I can honestly say that I looked at each word, but I came away with no sense of having read a book here.  My best assessment of this book's success is that there are a good handful of insecure literati-types who convinced themselves that any book too confusing to understand must be brilliant.<br />The only reason I can give to read this book is to able to say that you have read this book.	2003-05-20
US	51079773	RVI4R1WMQL1M6	1582342032	972545783	The Rider	Books	3	10	13	N	N	A tour de force of human neuroses	Cycling fanatics will find great pleasure in this literary cult classic.  The author clearly knows what it's like to be a competitive cyclist, and he does an exceptional job of revealing what goes on inside the head of such a person.  This book is as much about the athletic psyche as it is about a race.  And that's what makes it so interesting.  Anyone who has competed in any kind of race, especially a distance race, will be able to relate to the often bizarre, irrational thoughts that one's mind produces.  Krabbe's anecdotes about inventing words in his head to keep himself amused during training rides, or telling himself repeatedly that his lowest climbing gear is clean as a whistle, are just two examples of the intimate psychological glimpses that readers will surely enjoy.  I think the point of the story is that you have to be just a little bit crazy to be a professional cyclist, but at the same time, the cyclist's neuroses are completely human and natural.	2003-04-09
US	51079773	R2HPKWGM7TFXXK	0679722319	655603293	Where I'm Calling From: Selected Stories	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Simple people, simple lives, special stories	There is nothing particularly special about Raymond Carver's characters.  Without doubt that is what makes them so interesting.  They are everyday people with everyday lives.  They dislike their jobs and they fight with their wives, they drink beer and smoke cigarettes.  At their core, they are a pretty accurate reflection of the average American.  So what's so interesting about that?  Well, nothing really.  Except that Carver has the power to make these people real.  And it's not through elaborate, flowery prose.  None of that in these stories, thank you very much.  Carver uses the minimum number of words and still creates fascinating human characters with deep emotions and complex idiosyncracies.  His characters are raw and edgy.  And Carver catches them at their best and at the worst.  He seems to witness them when they think they are all alone and no one is watching.<br />This is a fairly comprehensive collection of stories ranging through Carver's writing career.  What impresses me most is that the stories are consistently good - even the early ones.  And just when you think you have him figured out, he throws a curve ball at you, as with the last story in the collection titled &quot;Errand.&quot;  While the other 36 stories are set in present-day America and focus on anonymous characters, this one tells the final days of Russia's great playwright, Anton Chekhov, in the late 1800's.  And while it is a dramatic departure from his typical style and substance, it still works remarkably well.  It's almost as if he is teasing us with a glimpse of his depth and range.	2003-04-07
US	51079773	RSM4GG3LIAT90	0679766626	574131654	Last Orders	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A touching, tender novel about friendship and loss	There's a very authentic feel to the individual voices of Swift's characters in Last Orders that gives this novel its charm.  The British common man accents jump off the page.  These are real people, nothing fake about them.  All of them simple people, really, but at the same time their is an emotional complexity to each of them that makes them very human.  I really liked the way Swift switches narrative voices every couple of pages.  It gave the book variety, a strong pace, and added depth to the story.  My only complaint is that there were passages where I felt a little more background about the secondary characters in the novel - women, all of them - would have been appropriate.  It took a while to put all the pieces together to figure out just who they were and how they related to the main characters.  I think I would have better appreciated their purpose in the story if their characters had been given more depth.<br />All in all, this is a charming novel about friendship, about the bonds between men, and about grieving.  It's impressive that Swift was able to infuse so much tenderness into a novel with no female main characters.	2003-03-28
US	51079773	R2XHZXU4ISIOEA	0810110490	274700893	Fateless	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Powerful writing, and a good translation	Two thoughts presented in this exceptional book will stay with me for quite some time.  The first is Kertesz's reflection that the first day of any horrific ordeal like a concentration camp remains more vivid in the memory than subsequent days, even though the subsequent days are more recent.  The second is that at the end of such an ordeal, one cannot simply start a new life.  The experiences will have shaped who you are, and the memories will always stay with you.  Both points strike me as profound, absolute truths.<br />I am ashamed to admit that I had not heard of Imre Kertesz prior to his receiving the Nobel Prize several months ago.  It is a shame that he is not better known in the U.S.  Hopefully the Prize will bring with it the recognition that he deserves.<br />One thing that struck me from the outset about this book is that it is not as horrific as one might expect a book about concentration camps to be.  At the same time, though, it feels genuine.  Kertesz himself was a survivor of a concentration camp, so we should expect nothing less.  The fact that Kertesz presents a balanced picture of this life - yes, there are even some moments of humor and beauty in a concentration camp - makes it seem that much more real.  I was especially moved by his insistence that often the primary emotion is not fear, but boredom.<br />Kertesz's prose is graceful and powerful throughout.  He paints a vivid picture of the confusion and bewilderment that the prisoners initially feel.  Many of the characters in the camps are nameless, a powerful testament to the countless anonymous victims of this tragedy.<br /><br />Lastly, a note to readers who may have been discouraged by comments about the translation.  Granted, one can't know how faithful it is to the original without reading it in Hungarian first.  However, I can say that the book reads quickly and easily in English.  I never felt myself struggling with awkard prose, so in that sense the translation is quite good.	2003-03-23
US	51079773	R3N8IT2CTSEU8V	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A lifetime of atonement	Ian McEwan is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.  With the exception of Philip Roth, who is so good he could probably get short-listed for the Pulitzer every time he writes his grocery list on the back of an envelope, McEwan is the only author I know who has produced such consistently excellent fiction.  Amsterdam, his Booker-winning novel just a few years ago, was a tough act to follow, but Atonement, which just nabbed the National Book Critics Circle Award, is a worthy successor.  This is what great writing is all about.<br />The plot of Atonement is richly layered and textured.  In part one of the novel, McEwan builds powerful sense of tension through his re-telling of the story from the perspectives of various different characters.  We are presented with a set of events, allowed to absorb, analyze, and judge them, and then we are presented with the same set of events molded from a different point of view, forcing us to re-examine them in this new context.  McEwan fills the narrative with mystery, passion, intrigue, and a whole range of complex personal emotions.  Part one could easily stand on its own as a novella.  The character of Briony is superbly developed.  She goes from being a precocious yet sympathetic focus of the reader's affection to a manipulative, conniving, stubborn brat whose moral lapse has disastrous, long-term consequences for several other characters.  But wait, that's just the first 100 pages!  McEwan then layers two more stories on top of this one - a powerful tale of the personal struggle of a WWII soldier retreating from the battle of Dunkirk, and stoic suffering of a young nurse in a military hospital, witnessing some of the worst injuries imaginable.  Both plots are gripping.<br />And what a graceful ending, bringing the novel full circle, 64 years later, back to where it began.  Few novels bring me to the verge of tears, but this one did.<br />I especially liked the critical analysis he offered on the creative process that a writer goes through.  Briony's reflections early on about her own efforts at fiction, and later on the thoughtful letter from the literary journal to which she submits her work, really added a lot to this novel.  It's great to get an honest, detailed assessment from a writer about his craft, and this one comes from the one of the best in the business.writer goes through.  Briony's reflections early on about her own efforts at fiction, and later on the thoughtful letter from the literary journal to which she submits her work, really added a lot to this novel.  It's great to get an honest, detailed assessment from a writer about his craft, and this one comes from the one of the best in the business.	2003-03-21
US	51079773	R1B9L15FPEB3ZA	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Disappointing....	I'm usually a big fan of novels that contain a story within a story, or seemingly divergent plot lines that tie together at the end.  This one, unfortunately, doesn't work.  It's disjointed and it's sloppy, and frankly, one of the stories is simply not that interesting.  Atwood would have been better off if she approached this as one seamless narrative.  When the novel focuses on its main character, Iris Griffen, the story is intriguing and the prose is quite elegant.  But the frequent, abrupt shifts to the science fiction format that unfolds in the story within the story is at best a distraction.  Atwood is not a sci-fi author, and it shows.  I grew impatient with these chapters, not just because they were poorly written but because they detracted from the good writing in the other parts of the book.  I was also frustrated by the attempt at creating a sense of mystery about who these two lovers were.  It really wasn't a mystery to any intelligent reader - it just made the narrative cryptic and difficult to follow.  Atwood should have told the whole story from one perspective - that of the main character as an old lady reflecting back on her life and her sister.  She's the most sympathetic character, and that's where the most compelling plot line lies.  I was also a bit annoyed by some of her writing techniques.  Some of it was just too cutesy for me - all the words of wisdom, the informality of addressing the reader in the second person, etc.  That works if the reader feels a rapport with the author, but it didn't work here.  I'm pretty surprised this won the Booker Prize - there was better fiction than this written that year.	2003-03-16
US	51079773	R1WHRLS74L7FIO	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great period fiction	Perfectly balanced and expertly paced, this is one of the finest novels I've read in a long time.  Mary Saunders is a character that the reader cannot help but love.  Donoghue has created a cast of characters with great care, richly complex and full of emotion.  She balances the novel so well, with a multitude of comparisons and contrasts.  Consider the dichotomy between the seedy, gritty life of London and the simple, traditional life of the Welsh countryside.  Consider the numerous characters that serve as foils to Mary, serving to enhance the readers understanding of her character.  There's not a single character missing, nor a single character that's superfluous.  And Donoghue knows just when to slow down the narrative, pausing to let the reader absorb the period with all five senses, and she knows just when to speed it up, spicing it with drama, suspense, and unabashed ribaldry.  Great writing.	2003-03-03
US	51079773	RTN20YPYIMIS8	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Sooner or later one must take sides...	While Graham Greene's writing is noticeably without flashiness, it is also without flaws.  Always subtle and graceful, with each novel he wrote he quietly established himself as one of the greatest writers of the 20th century.  The Quiet American is no exception.  It is a perfectly balanced novel.  Greene expertly juxtaposes the character of Fowler, the British journalist, with Pyle, the American aid worker.  Fowler is older, more reserved, more experienced.  Pyle is young, more ambitious, and seemingly more naive.  Fowler lives his life by the journalist's number one rule - stay impartial, don't take sides, just report what you see.  Pyle, by contrast, is passionate about making a difference in the struggle against communism in Vietnam.  They serve as beautiful foils for one another, and together they guide the reader through a profound exploration of the importance of being committed to a cause.  As Greene writes, one must eventually take sides in order to truly live.  This book is also an elegant comparison of two different cultures.  One learns lots about Vietnam within minutes of arriving, Greene points out.  And it is also a tender love story, though not a traditional one.  Greene masterfully blends this love story with a powerful and morally complex political scenario in a way that few modern writers could pull off.  As with all of Greene's work, this is excellent fiction.	2003-03-03
US	51079773	RI3VNX3M3MSQN	0449911160	467029510	About Schmidt (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Case closed - Schmidt not guilty	This book is so simply written that it just might fool you into thinking that it is a simple book.  Far from it.  This is a rich, layered, nuanced plot with complex characters and powerful themes of loss, anti-Semitism, aging, and generation gaps.  I found myself getting so lost in the pure pleasure of reading this novel that I frequently forgot that I was reading a book that was short-listed for the National Book Critics' Circle Award - a prize usually given to novels that require effort to muscle your way through.<br />Begley's background as an attorney shows through clearly.  He is not your typical writer.  You'll find little of the literary fluff, not much symbolism, no strong attachment to any particular technique or structure.  Instead, his minimalist prose allows the reader to focus on the story, on the characters, and most importantly, on the themes.  Much has been said about the notion that the reader is supposed to pass judgment on Schmidt - hence the title, a legal reference implying that the author is presenting a case or a brief.  But is there any doubt about who is guilty and who is innocent here?  Schmidt, for all of his flaws, is clearly the hero.  Yes, he feels more comfortable with people of his own kind than with outsiders, but who doesn't?  His heart is in the right place, for the most part, and Begley draws a rich portrait of a daughter who becomes self-absorbed in her unjustified resentment as she distances herself from her father.  Begley's exploration of this rift is beautiful for its subtlety, and for its ability to present a morally unambiguous case without sacrificing its complexity.<br />Who can explain, however, the bizarre adaptation for the screen that recently came out?  It resembles the book in virtually no respect, and makes one wonder why the bothered to pay for the rights to the book.  The book as it was would have made an excellent movie - one can only speculate as to why and how Hollywood took such an excellent book and, with much effort, turned it into such a mediocre film.ch effort, turned it into such a mediocre film.	2003-03-03
US	51079773	R1KRBTPM4IRXMS	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	3	49	55	N	N	Drink yourself sober	yukytjkuioejrkiopjgegokijergtfjh&ntilde;tfhgergherwkigrgdfnvfd,mnvlfdvnnirajeg{fjdlgjfd{gf<br />Sorry, that was me banging my head against the keyboard.  This was a painful book to read.  The person who wrote the afterword claims to have read Under The Volcano more than 30 times, each time more and more pleasurable.  Perhaps there are people out there like that, but my guess is that the average reader is not one of them.  This is certainly great literature - don't get me wrong - but I wouldn't consider it eminently readable.  It's a classic in the tradition of James Joyce - the kind of book that you have to work at, sometimes struggle with, in order to enjoy.<br />And it's not just the prose that is a chore at times, with its frequent meanderings and obscure literary references.  The subject matter is difficult, also.  Geoffrey, our main character, is searching for his identity and salvation amongst a thousand empty and broken bottles.  He is so far lost in alcoholism that he has to drink himself sober each day simply to survive.  So in a very real sense, his daily survival depends on his perpetuating an addiction that is not-so-slowly killing him.  He is dsyfunctional in every sense of the word - physically, socially, emotionally.  And his wife, Yvonne, and brother, Hugh, accompany him on this day-long journey which seems certainly headed for destruction, at times appearing to help him, at other times doing little more than enabling his drinking problem.<br />If you're going to give this book a try, be patient with it.  Give it your full attention, read it closely and carefully, and don't expect the words to just jump off the page.  You'll need to roll up your sleeves and go in there after each sentence, each paragraph, wrestle with them, and drag them out.  If you do, this can be a satisfying read.  But if you approach it casually, you could end up just staring at 300 pages of words that give you little satisfaction in the end.	2003-02-20
US	51079773	RYAA4CMJIGG89	0140072748	145984316	Run with the Horsemen (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	3	13	28	N	N	When doctors pretend to be writers...	This is not so much a novel as it is a series of stories about the adventures of a young boy growing up on a southern farm during the Great Depression.  It's a delightful read, full of humor and spirit - it would be the perfect book for a summer day in a field with a cool breeze blowing.  But alas, it's not quality literature.  Ferrol Sams knows how to entertain, but he hasn't crafted here a true novel.  What I mean by that is that there is no real beginning, middle, or end.  There's no climax, no denouement; instead, this is fiction that simply flows like a gentle stream.  Less than halfway through it I realized that there was no real plot - each chapter simply presents a different aspect of the boy's life.  Yes, it's a joy to read.  Sambo, the boy, is a charming main character, albeit far too nice and good-natured to be a truly believable farm boy.  Through his experiences in school, on the farm, in town, and at home with his family, we get a close glimpse of life in the rural South in the early 1930s.  And perhaps that's the point of the book.  But in spite of its charm, the book lacks drama.  The reader never wonders what's going to happen next, or how anything is going to be resolved.  In fact, with the minor exception of his father's fondness for the bottle, and the occasional trouble that it gets him in, the boy's childhood is one triumph after another.  After a while, it gets a little predictable.  Will he win the county debate competition?  Of course he will, just like he did last year, and the year before that.  Will his watermelon patch be a success?  Yes, indeed, and of course he will give a more than generous share of his earnings to his partner, to the church, etc., as that's just the kind of boy he is.  All in all, this was a pleasure to read, but I think Sams missed out on an opportunity to create quality literature.  I would recommend this book more to younger readers as a good summer read, but serious readers may be a bit disappointed by the lack of substance.f substance.	2003-02-20
US	51079773	R3JLH549LPRWQ5	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Intriguing exploration of modern-day morality	The sign of a great novel, often, is that it is difficult to describe in just a few sentences.  Such is the case with this one.  Though it weighs in as a lightweight at just under 200 pages, it is heavy on both plot and meaning.<br />At the heart of this novel are two characters facing separate moral dilemmas.  Each makes a disastrous decision and is forced to deal with the consequences.  Through these two characters and their decisions, McEwan explores the issues of morality and selfishness.  His prose is elegant, simple, and powerful.<br />This is great writing, and well-deserving of the Booker Prize that it won.	2003-02-05
US	51079773	R3EM97WJ37U6HS	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Shipwrecks and Bengal tigers....	Life of Pi combines great writing and great storytelling in the epic tradition of classics such as Moby Dick.  I choose that comparison because both novels are accounts of heroic struggles at sea.  But beyond that obvious similarity, the beauty and power of both lie not only in the adventures they describe, but also in the profound messages that each conveys.  Moby Dick is a chilling character study of a man driven by ego and revenge.  Life of Pi is a joyous celebration of love and survival.<br />Having just put down this book, I am hard-pressed to decide which will stay with me longer - the magnificent story itself, or its many profound insights.  Who could resist a story like this?  Pi Patel, son of a zookeeper in India and devout Hindu, Christian, and Muslim (yes, simultaneously, much to the chagrin of his three religious advisors), loses his whole family in a shipwreck and finds himself drifting through the Pacific Ocean in a lifeboat with an orangutan, a zebra, a hyena, and a Bengal tiger.  Basic food chain principles dictate that the number of castaways dwindles quickly to two, and the boy and tiger spend the rest of the novel learning to cohabitate in tight quarters - not to mention avoid starvation and survive the elements.<br />But that's not all, for Yann Martel weaves into this fabulous adventure messages that cut to the core of humanity and its place in the universe.  He explores many themes, but two stand out: the nature of faith and religion, and coexistence of man and beast on earth.  Both are covered elegantly and with great meaning.  Pi's touchingly naive desire to worship god in multiple churches, and his well-reasoned arguments for why this should not be frowned upon, raise (and answer) important questions about human spirituality.  And the interdependence of all living creatures is gracefully explored through the discussions of zoo life, and animal behavior, and most profoundly, through the powerful bonds that develop between man and tiger while at sea.<br />As a closing thought, the one other book that I will compare this to is Paulo Coelho's The Alchemist.  Life of Pi is filled with the same kind of magic and mysticism, and in a similar way reveals the beauty inherent in the simple mysteries of life.<br />The Man Booker Prize has made an excellent selection this year.at sea.<br />As a closing thought, the one other book that I will compare this to is Paulo Coelho's The Alchemist.  Life of Pi is filled with the same kind of magic and mysticism, and in a similar way reveals the beauty inherent in the simple mysteries of life.<br />The Man Booker Prize has made an excellent selection this year.	2003-02-01
US	51079773	R5QF0VLSTHJFM	0375422412	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Elegant writing	Three Junes is this year's National Book Award winner for good reason. Julia Glass has that rare gift for gracefully interweaving the lives of her characters and effortlessly bouncing back and forth between different places and periods in time.  She also draws her characters full of life, emotion, and humanity.  This novel is an excellent portrait of the modern family.  Each member leads his own life in its own unique direction, and yet what they have in common ultimately proves stronger than their differences or the distance that separates them.  Fenno is one of the most charming characters I've come across in modern literature recently.  Funny and kind, insecure and self-deprecating, sensitive and compassionate, he is loveable for both his strengths and his flaws.  This is excellent writing.	2003-01-22
US	51079773	R1FM4Q9EWVZRQK	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Funny, but no match for Savage Love	Superlatives quickly come to mind when I think of how to describe Dan Savage's sex advice column \\"Savage Love.\\"  He is by far the funniest, raunchiest, most honest, most daring, and most entertaining of the bunch.  For some reason, I assumed that this book would at least loosely resemble the column that he is known and loved for.  Not in terms of format, obviously, as this book was not advertised as a compilation of advice columns, but perhaps in substance, style, and humor.  Alas, this is not the case.  Don't get me wrong - the book is still entertaining.  But Savage's talent lends itself much better to the sex advice genre than it does to full-length books.  So don't expect to laugh out loud the way you do when you read Savage Love, and don't expect to find a story on every page that you will have to share with your friends.<br />Skipping Towards Gomorrah does have its merits.  If you lean towards the left on social policy issues, you will get your fill of Bill Bennett-slamming.  And as always, Savage takes no prisoners as he light-heartedly pokes fun at gamblers, fat people, pot-smokers, etc.  Some passages are truly inspired - like the description of the Los Angeles gay pride parade, or Savage's experience at the convention of BBWs (big, beautiful women) and FAs (fat admirers).  And the author also makes an important and well-reasoned social argument - that individuals should be able to pursue happiness however they choose, not just the way that conservative virtue czars like Bennett and others decide is right.	2003-01-07
US	51079773	R8M9PIYLS6K6U	034536743X	234748596	The 158-Pound Marriage	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Irving fans - don't overlook this one	John Irving fans should not overlook this gem of a book, though it departs drastically from the style that Irving is known and loved for.  While there is little of the over-the-top humor and element of the absurd that made him famous, the deep-felt humanity and compassion that fills his characters is here in abundance.  This is certainly the leanest, most serious, and yes, the saddest of his many fine novels.  It tackles a thorny and complex subject - the effect that a m&eacute;nage a quatre has on the two couples involved - with honesty and grace.  For one of his earlier works, this book shows a surprising level of maturity, both in the terse, precise prose and the nuanced, layered approach to the subject matter.  Irving's exploration of human emotion and the consequences of our decisions and actions are remarkably reminiscent of similar work by Philip Roth and Richard Ford years later.	2003-01-07
US	51079773	R1WC6JEB5GV2IE	1573222135	329938494	The Russian Debutante's Handbook	Books	3	35	43	N	N	Utterly original and infused with comic lunacy	Gary Shteyngart has written a great first novel, filled with idiosyncratic characters and their over-the-top experiences. With the Russian Debutante's Handbook, he has established himself as a master of social critique and comic lunacy.<br />One of the beauties of this novel is how it skillfully juxtaposes two worlds. The first half of the novel explores the peculiarities of New York City through the eyes of Vladimir Gershkin, an immigrant Russian Jew working as an assimilation facilitator at an immigrant absorption clinic. The second half of the novel follows our hero to the loosely-fictitious eastern European city of Prava, bubbling with the onset of capitalism and infused with comic relief by the budding expat community. Shteyngart, himself a Russian immigrant, ideally trained by his own experience and uniquely equipped with a gift for observation and expression, exposes the hilarious quirks of each world and pokes sharply yet playfully at their shortcomings.<br />Much has been said about Shteyngart's gift for language. It is not an exaggeration to say that one could literally open this book to any page and find an utterly original turn of phrase, or a combination of words that beg you to stop and ponder. This is a truly fresh voice in the literary world.	2002-12-24
US	51079773	RV14C3LVECL8Q	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Yes, men should read this book, also!	I was told over and over by countless female friends that I should not read this book.  Thank goodness I ignored them.  True, they were not lying when they said this was a book about biblical women menstruating; but that trite summary fails to do justice to the beauty, energy, and depth of this remarkable novel.<br />This is a book about relationships.  It is about the relationships that form between women and the experiences that bond them together.  It is about the relationship between women and their bodies, between women and the earth, between women and their men, between women and their gods.  It is a book about the role of women as life-givers and as preservers of the cultural heritage of their people.<br />The other summary commonly attributed to this novel is that it is how the Bible would have been had it been written by women.  This is also misleading.  While many of the characters are also found in the Bible, The Red Tent is very much an original work of fiction.  Diamant remains true to the inspirational roots of her story while weaving an elaborate and original tapestry of her own.<br />This book strongly reinforced my belief that good literature transcends gender stereotypes.  As a whole, this book may appeal more to women than men, but any man who enjoys good literature will appreciate this fine work.	2002-12-16
US	51079773	RKZSORUNH15DI	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	An important novel of immense pathos and depth	Angle of repose, as defined in Stegner's Pulitzer Prize-winning work, is the angle of incline along a riverbed at which dirt and rocks will not slide.  More profoundly, it serves as a permeating theme throughout this novel about an elderly amputee who is confined to a wheelchair but remains determined to pursue an independent and active existence.  He is historian Lyman Ward, grandson of Susan and Oliver Ward, and through the prism of historical analysis he presents the lives of his grandparents.  As he peruses his grandmother's letters to her best friend, we learn of Susan and Oliver's adventures and challenges as pioneers of America's frontier.  Oliver, an engineer, dedicates himself first to mining and later to irrigation projects.  Susan, an artist and writer, captures the rugged beauty of 19th century western America in her work, while struggling to maintain a marriage and a family under difficult conditions.<br />This novel, at its heart, is a work about personal endurance and self-discovery.  As Lyman explores the hardships of his grandparents' life, he comes to learn more about his own ability to stand firm in the face of difficulty.  Lyman's narrative voice is wise, objective, and admiring, at times reminiscent of Philip Roth's Nathan Zuckerman.  Through this voice Stegner has managed to capture that elusive feel of what it means to be human and to truly live.  His characters ring true in all their beauty and all their flaws.  And his message is a powerful one - that life can be a sedentary existence or an active one, and that it is our decision how we react to the circumstances of our environment.	2002-12-11
US	51079773	R2S3UZFOPNM10N	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	3	4	4	N	N	As real as human pain can get	Faulkner's writing provokes in me feelings of powerful awe and intense discomfort.  These are difficult feelings to reconcile, and have led me to develop a frustrating love/hate relationship with him.  The unflinching rawness of his prose cuts right to the core of what human suffering is all about, and this is the stuff that great literature is made of.  In As I Lay Dying, as in much of his work, Faulkner places no distance between himself as writer and his characters.  The first-person narration throughout the book, and the lack of an objective voice to buffer the reader from the pain of the characters, makes for intense reading.  The blood on the pages is as close to real as it gets, and that can be awkward for a reader who wants to observe but not experience.  But Nobel Prizes are rarely given out to writers who shy away from pain and humanity in all its ugliness, and ultimately it is Faulkner's honesty with his characters that makes them so powerful.<br />As I Lay Dying is the story of a family's journey to fulfill a promise to their dead wife and mother by burying her in her home town.  The narrative voice changes from chapter to chapter, sometimes the stoic, enduring father, sometimes the rebellious four children, and occasionally even the voice of the deceased.  It is a quick read, but like most of Faulkner's fiction, a painful one.  This is a book to appreciate for its brutal realism - nothing sugar-coated and no rose-colored glasses.  And yes, ultimately a masterpiece of American fiction.	2002-11-17
US	51079773	R1PI58WHVKCVY1	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Test your memory skills	What could be better than pleasurable reading that also provides stimulation for your memory skills?  The Quincunx is an intelligently-written mystery, so complex in its layers of intrigue that the inattentive reader may easily get lost.  Don't put this book down for several weeks, as I did, or you may find yourself struggling to recall important details from earlier chapters.  Fortunately, Palliser presumably recognized the complexity of the yarn he was weaving, as he frequently repeats himself in convenient places, lest the reader should forget key clues along the way.  Of course, the downside to this is that it makes for a lengthy novel, weighing in at just under 800 pages.  The majority, however, is fresh plot twists, and it maintains a decent pace for the most part.<br />The Quincunx is the tale of a boy struggling to unravel the mystery of a family will that may lead to his inheritance of a vast estate.  He learns quickly that this will be no easy task, as various other characters have a significant interest in seeing him dead.  Palliser convenes an impressive cast of characters - so many, in fact, that he offers an index at the end to keep track of them all.  And with each, it is unclear whether our young hero should trust or fear them.  Palliser weaves a complex tale of hidden agendas among familial relations that are rarely what they seem to be.<br />This reader has only two pieces of criticism to offer.  The first is that the writing lacks a certain subtlety that would have meshed well with the sense of mystery in which the plot is shrouded.  Too often, plot twists and discoveries were presented like proverbial bricks to the head.  Second, while the plot never grew boring, the length was somewhat tedious.  Even a good roller-coaster ride should eventually come to an end - preferably in less than 800 pages.	2002-11-13
US	51079773	R1ETYRK37MCBK9	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Shooting down the doomsday theorists	This book certainly made waves within the environmental protection community, and for good reason.  Lomborg takes a systematic, statistics-based approach to shooting down pretty much every doomsday theory on the environment.  From pollution to global warming, from food shortages to disease, his well-reasoned and exhaustively-researched arguments make it pretty clear that environmental groups have exaggerated the precarious state of the world.<br />Having said that, I should note that I am neither an expert in statistics or environmental science, so perhaps Lomborg has simply fooled me the same way that he claims environmentalists have been fooling the masses for decades.  But it's indicative of something, I think, that nobody has come along yet to refute his arguments.  From what I've heard, the statistical evidence that he presents is air-tight.<br />This is an excellent book for anyone who is interested in environmental science but perhaps does not have the in-depth knowledge or interest required to read some of the more technical studies.  Lomborg presents his arguments in simple language, and while the statistics that he cites can get tiresome, it is not in any way a difficult read.  What's more, he presents an overview of all the major environmental concerns in just 350 pages, as opposed to focusing on one specific problem (or worse, spending thousands of pages to cover everything).<br />And you'll learn some fascinating facts that will stick with you for a long time.  Like for example, did you know that cats kill more birds each day than the Exxon Valdez oil spill killed?  Or that the U.S. could satisfy it's entire need for garbage landfills for the next century with a plot of land less than 30 square miles?  At the very least, it's good material for cocktail parties.	2002-08-21
US	51079773	R2I71XYZPTZ9SR	1883011140	902631932	USA (The 42nd Parallel / 1919 / The Big Money)	Books	3	45	59	N	N	Excellent social inquiry, mediocre work of literature	Long heralded as a monumental portrait of American society in the early decades of the 20th century, John Dos Passos' U.S.A. trilogy is, if nothing else, an amazing display of intellectual endurance.  Few novels that I have come across are more ambitious or broader in scope.  In 1240 pages, Dos Passos attempts to characterize a vast, growing nation in one of its most dynamic periods in history.  While he gloriously succeeds as a sociological study, it is unfortunately at the expense of producing a mediocre work of literature.<br />It is important to point out that while the three installments of this trilogy were written several years apart from each other, this is most definitely one book, not three.  The first and second books, The 42nd Parallel and 1919, have no proper conclusion, and The Big Money, the trilogy's final installment, is a logical progression in terms of style and chronology, if not plot.  So reading any of these books on their own, or reading them all out of sequence, would be a thoroughly unsatisfying experience.<br />It is clear from early on that Dos Passos has bitten off more than he can chew, at least from a literary perspective.  His goal is to capture the essence of an America caught in the throws of industrialization and fervent capitalism, and the inevitable wealth gap and social class struggle that result from this economic expansion.  He also tackles the difficult task of explaining this country's painful ambivolence towards the war in Europe and the sense of euphoria in the years following it's conclusion.  But these themes are vast and unwieldy, far bigger than any one character in the novel, and as a result, the characters themselves become forgettable and quickly get lost.  In a sense, there is only one main character in this novel, and it is America herself.<br />But America is not a person, it is a country and society, and as such the U.S.A. trilogy at times takes on the feel of a social inquiry more than a work of fiction.  The other characters, through whose experiences we study the social landscape and fabric of early 20th century America, lack depth and dimension.  They are mere stereotypes chosen by Dos Passos to represent various segments of society.  There is the down-and-out vagabond, wandering the country and living hand-to-mouth, bitterly condemning the economic wealth all around him from which he is excluded.  You have the quintessential rags-to-riches success story, the boy who started with little more than a dollar in his pocket and a whole lot of ambition, and amassed an economic fortune, but at the expense of his humanity and health.  We also find the New York socialites, the Communist activists, the labor union organizers, the proud and rowdy GI soldier.  But there are no real people, as such characters would not serve the greater purpose of defining American society in the way that Dos Passos sees it.  And as a result, the experiences and interactions among these characters are also stereotypical.<br />Despite its shortcomings, the U.S.A. trilogy is worth reading, as it constitutes an important contribution to the understanding of our nation and its history.  And in many ways, the great ambition of this novel encouraged other writers to strive to create works of fiction that were not just of literary merit, but also of important social significance.  However, for a far more satisfying literary experience, Theodore Dreiser's An American Tragedy accomplishes on a micro-level what Dos Passos attempted to achieve on a broader scale.  But unlike the U.S.A. trilogy, Dreiser's work is a true pleasure to read.other characters, through whose experiences we study the social landscape and fabric of early 20th century America, lack depth and dimension.  They are mere stereotypes chosen by Dos Passos to represent various segments of society.  There is the down-and-out vagabond, wandering the country and living hand-to-mouth, bitterly condemning the economic wealth all around him from which he is excluded.  You have the quintessential rags-to-riches success story, the boy who started with little more than a dollar in his pocket and a whole lot of ambition, and amassed an economic fortune, but at the expense of his humanity and health.  We also find the New York socialites, the Communist activists, the labor union organizers, the proud and rowdy GI soldier.  But there are no real people, as such characters would not serve the greater purpose of defining American society in the way that Dos Passos sees it.  And as a result, the experiences and interactions among these characters are also stereotypical. <br />Despite its shortcomings, the U.S.A. trilogy is worth reading, as it constitutes an important contribution to the understanding of our nation and its history.  And in many ways, the great ambition of this novel encouraged other writers to strive to create works of fiction that were not just of literary merit, but also of important social significance.  However, for a far more satisfying literary experience, Theodore Dreiser's An American Tragedy accomplishes on a micro-level what Dos Passos attempted to achieve on a broader scale.  But unlike the U.S.A. trilogy, Dreiser's work is a true pleasure to read.	2002-08-08
US	51079773	R29LKLWYSM9V8C	0141186151	988777649	Fifth Business (Deptford Trilogy)	Books	5	99	101	N	N	The best book I had never heard of	Fifth Business, the first installment of the Robertson Davies' Deptford Trilogy, is without doubt the best novel that I had never heard of.  Davies prose and narrative voice rival Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited in elegance, humor, and style.  And his characters and plot development, so rich, absorbing, and at once triumphant and tragic, put this fine novel in the same class as Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby.<br />The term 'Fifth Business', as Davies describes, refers to the role in an opera, usually played by a man, which has no opposite of the other sex.  While only a supporting character, he is essential to the plot, for he often knows the secret of the hero's birth, or comes to the assistance of the heroine when all seems lost, or may even be the cause of someone's death.  In this novel, Dunstan Ramsay plays this role, and he is in maginificent form.  Though he narrates the novel, and is intimately entwined in the lives of all its characters, he somehow manages to remain slightly in the background as a passive observer of others.  It is through his eyes that we witness the rise of Boy Staunton, his childhood friend from the small Canadian town of Deptford.  While Dunny goes off to the war where he is seriously wounded, and later becomes a boarding school master and expert on the history of saints, Boy makes his fortune in the sugar business and eventually pursues a career in politics.  Dunny, whose soft-spoken charm, honesty, and self-reflection become clear through his narration, serves as an admirable foil to Boy, whose drive and ambition are unrestrained by a sense of morality, duty, or altruism.<br />But the novel is far more complex than a simple study of two contrasting characters.  Davies' cast is rich and diverse, and their lives intertwine fluidly, though often in surprising ways.  There is Mrs. Dempster, who in the opening pages is struck by a snowball thrown by Boy and intended for Dunny, and is rendered \\"simple\\" after the subsequent premature birth of her son Paul.  Paul runs away from home at a young age, but reappears later in the novel in a key role.  And Liesl, the magician's manager, a strong-willed and sexually aggressive woman, hardened by life but wise in the ways of the world, proves to be an admirable rival for Dunny as astute observer of others.<br />Narrated in the form of a letter to Dunny's headmaster, the novel maintains a strong sense of plain honesty throughout.  It is a remarkable novel, and a shock that Davies has remained relatively obscure in this country.rth of her son Paul.  Paul runs away from home at a young age, but reappears later in the novel in a key role.  And Liesl, the magician's manager, a strong-willed and sexually aggressive woman, hardened by life but wise in the ways of the world, proves to be an admirable rival for Dunny as astute observer of others. <br />Narrated in the form of a letter to Dunny's headmaster, the novel maintains a strong sense of plain honesty throughout.  It is a remarkable novel, and a shock that Davies has remained relatively obscure in this country.	2002-07-18
US	51079773	R33CXPK69LNPDI	0553210092	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I knew I was in for a tough read when....	...I looked at the back cover and saw that Henry James called this \\"the finest piece of imaginitive writing yet put forth in the country.\\"  For those of you who have read James and find him tedious, prepare yourself for much of the same here.  Like James, the prose is robust and at times almost poetic.  And like James, it is amazing how a 250 page novel can easily feel like 500 pages.<br />That said, this is a must read for anyone trying to check off the list of American literary classics.  Hester Prynne and her scarlet 'A' are cultural references so recognizable that you will surely feel like an outcast among the literary cognoscenti if you happened to avoid this one in high school.  There is a reason, however, that they force us to read this in high school, and it's because no reasonable adult would actually choose to read this book of their own free will.  Well, except me.<br />It's actually somewhat amusing, in our era of rampant adultery and other forms of sexual promiscuity, to read of a time when a seemingly victimless transgression would cause so much of an uproar.  Hawthorne has created quite a period piece with this novel, a vivid, if unidimensional, portrait of the Puritanical roots of our country.  Oh, how far we've come...	2002-07-09
US	51079773	R83QWFCERCS5N	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Breath-taking and tragic	Rarely does a work of non-fiction attain the status of &quot;classic&quot; in such a short period of time.  In fact, I had heard so much praise for this book that I thought it had been around for much longer than five years.  When you think of Mt. Everest chronicles, this is the first one that comes to mind, and for good reason.  It is a powerfully gripping story written with all the emotion and insight of a climber/journalist who was right there on the mountain.<br />Jon Krakauer originally set out with Rob Hall's Adventure Consultants group to write a story about the commercialization of climbing Everest.  The events that transpired during their ascent, however, proved to be a much more tragic story.  Krakauer recounts the various factors that led to the deaths of several of the climbers in his group.  Some were errors in human judgment, like the group's failure to abide by their agreed-upon turnaround time on top of the mountain, and a guide's reckless decision to climb without supplemental oxygen.  Other factors were simply beyond their control (though not unimagineable), like the hurricane-force winds that trapped the group above 28,000 feet, in temperatures reaching 100 degrees below zero.<br />Many people encouraged Krakauer to wait a few years before writing this book, in order to reflect on his experience and avoid presenting an account skewed by emotion and his proximity to the events.  I think it is precisely the freshness of his emotional reaction to such a difficult climb and such a tragic end that makes this such a powerful book.  Few adventure books will make you feel as close to the action as this one did, or have such a strong emotional impact on its readers.	2002-07-05
US	51079773	RHPJVB5E43YAS	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The most charming outlaw you'll ever meet	Peter Carey has created one of the most original, charismatic narrative voices in the character of Ned Kelly.  Ned is both rough and charming, both quaintly colloquial and in many ways larger than his humble roots.  In an epic letter to his unborn daughter, he recounts his life story, wanting to pass along the truth to a child whom he will never meet.<br />The story that he tells begins in early childhood, when his mother, widowed and in financial dispair, apprentices Ned to an infamous outlaw.  His narrative details his numerous encounters with the law and the formation of his notorious gang of criminals.  And of course, since it is a first-person narrative, Ned comes across as a remarkably sympathetic character and ultimately a hero who stood firm in the face of ruthless persecution from the Australian authorities.  Apart from being an engaging portrait of a fascinating character, Carey's novel is a vivid account of life in rugged 19th century Australia, infused with plenty of local flavor to give the novel a sense of authenticity.<br />Though the narrative voice, in its uneducated, free-flowing style, is difficult at first, the reader will quickly become accustomed to it and soon will appreciate how much it adds to the novel.  This is a fine literary performance and a deserving selection for the Booker Prize.	2002-07-01
US	51079773	R2BDMIALLNMMFM	067003066X	492038533	Homo Zapiens	Books	1	8	33	N	N	Bizarre and at times unintelligible	To call this book bizarre would be a phenomenal understatement.  Quirky, surreal, and at times so unintelligible that you wonder whether something got lost in the translation, this is not a book that I would recommend highly unless you know Pelevin's work and have enjoyed his particular brand of humor in the past.  He certainly possesses a very unique outlook on Russian modern-day culture, and he is unapologetic in his ruthless assault on mass media, political institutions, and other elements of society.  But his humor and his cultural reference points are perhaps too esoteric for the average American reader.<br />In Homo Zapiens, the main character, Tatarsky, stumbles into a career writing ad campaigns for various consumer products, ranging from Sprite to Parliament cigarettes.  His new job brings him in contact with a range of zany characters, and ultimately leads him to some disturbing discoveries - such as the revelation that political leaders do not actually exist, but rather are simply digital images created by media companies for public consumption through the air waves.  Homo Zapiens is filled with similar social commentaries that add definition to Pelevin's slightly disturbing world view.  It is a refreshing, and at times humorous, insight into the Russian mentality, but ultimately not a particularly enjoyable or important piece of writing.	2002-06-24
US	51079773	R2G86D8CM8GLZX	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Beautiful portrait of small-town America	Richard Russo's style seems so appropriate for this wonderful novel about life in small-town America.  Set in Maine, but reminiscent of most small towns in terms of values, relationships, and traditions, a beautiful story of family, of sacrifice, and of the bonds of love unfolds with the most touching of narrative voices.  Russo's style is informal and friendly, inviting the reader to take a seat at the counter of the Empire Grill and enjoy a burger while Miles, the manager of the grill and the novel's main character, recounts his story.  Russo quickly becomes your trusted friend, in that way that seems so natural in small towns, and you soon become privy to his inside jokes and his peculiar observations.  His writing, in fact, reminds me of Anne Tyler, another Pulitzer Prize-winner, in its ability to make you feel as if the author were sitting right there with you.<br />Complementing Russo's pleasant narrative style is a plot that is engaging, rich, and robust.  We see Miles as he comes to grip with his pending divorce and his wife's plans to re-marry.  We sympathize with his struggles to raise his teenage daughter.  We observe his cordial but awkward relationship with the local police officer whose uniform, if not personal behavior, demands a certain degree of respect.  And we witness Miles' slow personal awakening in his relationship with the town matriarch, who owns the Empire Grill and most everything else in town, including, it seems, Miles' own destiny.<br />What is so beautiful about this novel is its ability to slide effortlessly between past and present, and gracefully link the two.  A sense of small-town nostalgia pervades throughout the novel, offering a sense of history and community that feels completely genuine.  Years from now Empire Falls may be revered as a remarkable period piece, capturing a glimpse of small-town American life in transition at the end of a century.	2002-06-20
US	51079773	RP6Y1KQL97XRU	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	48	55	N	N	Despicable, yet memorable characters	The fact that this novel was written when Emily Bronte was only 28 years old, two years before her death, makes one wonder what she would have been capable of had she lived longer and continued writing.  I must admit, this was one of those books that I appreciate for its literary merit more than enjoy for its pure reading pleasure.  But if the true test of a novel is how visceral of a reaction the reader has to its characters, then this is certainly a fine novel.  Each of Bronte's characters is exquisitely developed in his or her own way.  And each evokes powerful emotional responses from the reader - mostly negative reactions of anger, frustration, disgust, etc. - but reactions, nonetheless.  A well-written character, remember, does not have to be a character that you admire or love; pathetic, self-centered, cruel characters can be the product of exceptional writing, as long as they evoke genuine feelings of revulsion from the reader.<br />And this novel is full of characters that will earn little admiration from readers.  Indeed, the only character that was really \\"likeable\\" was the temporary tenant of the Wuthering Heights estate, to whom the story is recounted by Ellen, the servant.  Ellen gives her account of the events that she witnessed as the domestic employee of Catherine, a self-centered, melodramatic eccentric who falls in love with Heathcliff, the gypsy who under somewhat mysterious circumstances is brought by her father to live in their home.  Despite her love, Catherine marries Edgar, causing Heathcliff to devote the remainder of his years to exacting revenge for her betrayal.  What follows is a dark, brutal, sometimes frightening tale of a pathological love affair and its tragic consequences.<br />Bronte certainly did not view the world through rose-colored glasses, if Wuthering Heights is any indication of her personal world view.  It can be a difficult read at times, only because the few redeemable qualities of the main characters are so powerfully overshadowed by their flaws, their cruel intentions, and the bleak outlook that Bronte portrays.  It certainly deserves its place, however, among the classics of English literature, and its characters, despite their shortcomings (or perhaps because of them), will live long in the readers mind after the final page.overshadowed by their flaws, their cruel intentions, and the bleak outlook that Bronte portrays.  It certainly deserves its place, however, among the classics of English literature, and its characters, despite their shortcomings (or perhaps because of them), will live long in the readers mind after the final page.	2002-06-10
US	51079773	R3M09556F8K27W	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Well it's not War and Peace, but....	Considered by some to be the finest novel of the 19th century, Anna Karenina is one of the most readable and enjoyable 800-page books you will find.  Though in reputation it lives in the shadow of the better known War and Peace, Anna Karenina is certainly a finer work of literature than the hackneyed benchmark for tomes of epic proportion.  The characters in Anna Karenina are far more engaging, not to mention fewer in number and therefore less confusing, and the narrative pace is much quicker, such that this is actually a pleasure to read and not so much a chore.  If you are reading Tolstoy for the first time and are not swayed by the obvious bragging rights that reading War and Peace will entitle you to, Anna Karenina is by far the better choice.<br />Tolstoy was truly a master of describing Russian society on its broadest scale.  In Anna Karenina, he presents his most opinionated critique of the Russian aristocracy, of city life and its shortcomings, of organized religion, of oppression based on class and gender, and countless other topics of social importance.  Anna, the beautiful, rebellious, and ultimately tragic heroine, has a passionate affair with Alexei Vronsky, and leaves her husband and son in hopes of finding true happiness.  What she inevitably discovers, however, is a society both rigid and unforgiving towards a woman's infidelity.  As a result, she is forced to live a life largely removed from the social circles to which she is accustomed, and ultimately she has no choice but to realize the futility of trying to fight the traditional, inflexible societal norms that govern the behavior of married women.<br />Anna Karenina is a must read both for lovers of classic literature and students of the Russian identity.  Tolstoy, indisputably Russian greatest novelist ever, eloquently presents his most enlightened views on numerous questions of timeless significance - agrarian reform, the ills of urban life, the decadence of aristocracy, and more.  He even shows the smallest hint of sympathy for women's rights, well ahead of his time.  Anna Karenina is the epitome of quality literature - a book that makes profound social statements while at the same time providing hours of pleasurable reading.s the smallest hint of sympathy for women's rights, well ahead of his time.  Anna Karenina is the epitome of quality literature - a book that makes profound social statements while at the same time providing hours of pleasurable reading.	2002-06-05
US	51079773	R1LV8XLE48LQ0G	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Every reader should give Leif Enger a hug for this book!	Is it a copout to simply say that this book is perfectly written?  It seems trite to say that, and yet this is as close to perfection as writing gets.  I confess that I often worry, when I am in the early pages of a good book, that the author will eventually commit a fatal error - be it an ill-advised plot twist, an illogical character development, a stylistic lapse - and the book will fall to the realm of mediocrity.  After all, the fact that an author produces 100 pages of exceptional work is no guarantee that the next 100 pages will be equally as good.  But Peace Like A River was so masterfully written that it seemed guaranteed from the first page to fulfill its promise.  Absorbed in Lief Enger's prose, I felt as safe as a newborn in his mother's arms.<br />Chosen as this year's Book Sense Book of the Year, yet inexplicably overlooked by more prestigious literary awards, this is certainly one of the best first novels every written.  Set against a beautifully painted backdrop of the badlands of North Dakota, it is the story of the Land family and their search for moral redemption.  Jeremiah, the father, performer of frequent inexplicable miracles and good deeds; Reuben, the 11-year-old narrator, whose chronic lung problems make the simple act of breathing a central task in his life; Swede, the 9-year-old daughter, prolific writer of epic poetry; and Davy, the independent, confident 16-year-old who is jailed for a crime for which the moral justification is easy to accept.  When Davy escapes from jail, his family journeys in search of him.  Each, in his own way, struggles with the painful dilemma of whether to protect their fugitive loved one or help the authorities track him down.  It is a powerful tell of love and of the seemingly infinite gray area between right and wrong.<br />Lief Enger deserves more than just a prize for this novel.  He deserves a heartfelt hug from every reader who is captured by the power, beauty, and feeling of human redemption that he has produced.produced.	2002-05-26
US	51079773	RKSTRSDFCETR6	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Every reader should give Leif Enger a hug for this book	Is it a copout to simply say that this book is perfectly written?  It seems trite to say that, and yet this is as close to perfection as writing gets.  I confess that I often worry, when I am in the early pages of a good book, that the author will eventually commit a fatal error - be it an ill-advised plot twist, an illogical character development, a stylistic lapse - and the book will fall to the realm of mediocrity.  After all, the fact that an author produces 100 pages of exceptional work is no guarantee that the next 100 pages will be equally as good.  But Peace Like A River was so masterfully written that it seemed guaranteed from the first page to fulfill its promise.  Absorbed in Lief Enger's prose, I felt as safe as a newborn in his mother's arms.<br />Chosen as this year's Book Sense Book of the Year, yet inexplicably overlooked by more prestigious literary awards, this is certainly one of the best first novels every written.  Set against a beautifully painted backdrop of the badlands of North Dakota, it is the story of the Land family and their search for moral redemption.  Jeremiah, the father, performer of frequent inexplicable miracles and good deeds; Reuben, the 11-year-old narrator, whose chronic lung problems make the simple act of breathing a central task in his life; Swede, the 9-year-old daughter, prolific writer of epic poetry; and Davy, the independent, confident 16-year-old who is jailed for a crime for which the moral justification is easy to accept.  When Davy escapes from jail, his family journeys in search of him.  Each, in his own way, struggles with the painful dilemma of whether to protect their fugitive loved one or help the authorities track him down.  It is a powerful tell of love and of the seemingly infinite gray area between right and wrong.<br />Lief Enger deserves more than just a prize for this novel.  He deserves a heartfelt hug from every reader who is captured by the power, beauty, and feeling of human redemption that he hasproduced.	2002-05-25
US	51079773	R3B9880LJ60MFQ	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Smart, suspenseful thriller that is more than mind candy	Generally speaking, readers are forced to choose between intelligent, character-driven, quality literature and dumbed-down, mindless, plot-driven fiction.<br />Arturo Perez-Reverte is one of the few writers who finds a happy medium between the two.  Yes, his books center around an exciting plot, move at a healthy pace, and leave little time for the reader to think about character development or artistic merit.  And yet, his books are more than just mind candy.  They are smart, suspenseful thrillers that will leave you feeling at least satisfied if not wholesomely enriched.  The Seville Communion is no exception.<br />Set in modern-day Seville, this is the story of Father Lorenzo Quart, sent by the investigative arm of the Vatican's foreign affairs ministry to investigate two mysterious deaths in an old, neglected church that local banking executives want abolished, so the land can be used for more lucrative development purposes.  A feisty old priest and a local aristocratic woman lead the efforts to keep the church alive.  And an anonymous computer hacker is breaking into the Pope's personal computer system to deposit messages warning the Holy See that this old church will do what it must to protect itself and ensure its survival.  Perez-Reverte creates a cast of colorful characters - Quart, the ruggedly attractive priest whose vow of chastity never seems to be his top priority, Macarena, the elegant aristocrat who always seems to be seducing him, and many more.  Set against the backdrop of Seville, a city filled with old world charm and beauty, this novel has the feel of a period piece even though it is set in modern day, complete with cell phones and computer hackers.<br />Though The Fencing Master, in my opinion, is his best work, The Seville Communion is an excellent read, an exciting whodunit for intelligent readers.	2002-05-21
US	51079773	R2U2XB0BCN3OMU	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A rich, textured, poetic tapestry - though somewhat tedious	A.S. Byatt has pulled off a stunning achievement with her Booker Prize-winning novel - excuse me, ROMANCE - entitled Possession.  Some, like myself, may find it tedious at times, especially if you are not a fan of Victorian epic poetry, with which Byatt opens many of her chapters and fills dozens upon dozens of pages.  But quality literature is worth the effort, and this is indeed quality literature.  If at first the poetic interludes frustrate you, give yourself time to appreciate them.  By the end you will realize how much texture and flavor they add to a beautifully woven literary tapestry.<br />Possession is the story of two young scholars, Roland and Maud,whose paths cross when they realize that the poets they are researching - Randolph Henry Ash and Christabel LaMotte, respectively - may have had a brief yet passionate affair.  Through recently discovered journal entries, letters, and poems, the two scholars follow a trail of clues that they hope will lead them to a profound discovery.  The plot thickens as an overzealous American scholar attempts to woo the holder of these manuscripts in an attempt to remove them from England and store them at his university's library across the pond.<br />Possession is reminiscent of the best of 19th century British fiction.  It is filled with an overwhelming feeling of period authenticity.  Byatt masterfully blends poetry with prose in a way few authors can.  And as a result she has produced a work of immense beauty that will be treasured for years to come.	2002-05-16
US	51079773	R35PFE7KCRYSF8	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	43	49	N	N	At times beautiful, at times extremely flawed	If a novel is at once tremendously beautiful and amazingly flawed, how will these two characteristics be reconciled in the final evaluation of the work?  Will the flaws be forgiven as minor technicalities, overwhelmed by the novel's beauty?  Or are they so intrinsic to the overall work that they cannot be separated, leaving a sour taste in the reader's mouth that even tremendous beauty cannot overcome?  Or perhaps they peacefully coexist, allowing the reader to separate them and evaluate them individually.  Read Bel Canto, and answer for yourself.<br />The winner of this year's Fen/Faulker Award, Bel Canto is one of the more beautiful novels I have read in a long while.  In an unnamed South American country that bears a strong resemblance to Peru, a group of terrorists sneak into the vice-president's home as he is hosting a birthday party for a Japanese businessman and take dozens of people hostage, including the world-renowned opera singer who had performed at the party.  A protracted hostage situation ensues, extending over a period of several months.  And during this time, bonds of friendship, trust, and love develop between terrorists and hostages.  Relationships that at first glance might seem unnatural or unlikely quickly become meaningful and powerful, full of the most genuine emotion.  Love and compassion gradually transcend and overwhelm the adversarial nature of the situation, powerfully reaffirming all the humanity that is common to us all.  And the music provided daily by the opera singer serve as a backdrop of beauty, simplicity, and grace, a common language among people from different backgrounds and cultures.  Her music brings hope and happiness, and kindles love in the most unexpected of places.<br />Throughout, Patchett's prose evokes a full range of emotions from the reader.  Her writing sings, her sentences dance off the page with grace and beauty.  But, alas, this is not a perfect novel.  Some flaws are simple ones, errors that any editor should have caught, which makes them all the more inexcusable.  In her attempts to sprinkle the text with bits and pieces of Spanish, Patchett unfortunately displays her lack of knowledge of the language by committing grammatical errors that even a first year Spanish student would catch.  In her description of a chess game, she mistakenly refers to the horse's head of the rook.  And perhaps most embarrassingly, one of her male characters is named Guadalupe, which happens to be the name of the virgin saint of Mexico - most definitely a woman's name.  These errors, while egregious for a work of such enormous beauty and magnitude, could perhaps be dismissed as technical, not substantive flaws.  But alas, there is a major substantive flaw as well.  After writing a novel in which every turn feels so appropriate, Pratchett tacks on a three-page epilogue with a plot twist that seems so out of touch with the rest of the novel that it almost invalidates the beauty of the first 300 pages.  And unfortunately, it is the ending that makes the final impression on the reader.  I can only hope that it will not also be the lasting impression.d have caught, which makes them all the more inexcusable.  In her attempts to sprinkle the text with bits and pieces of Spanish, Patchett unfortunately displays her lack of knowledge of the language by committing grammatical errors that even a first year Spanish student would catch.  In her description of a chess game, she mistakenly refers to the horse's head of the rook.  And perhaps most embarrassingly, one of her male characters is named Guadalupe, which happens to be the name of the virgin saint of Mexico - most definitely a woman's name.  These errors, while egregious for a work of such enormous beauty and magnitude, could perhaps be dismissed as technical, not substantive flaws.  But alas, there is a major substantive flaw as well.  After writing a novel in which every turn feels so appropriate, Pratchett tacks on a three-page epilogue with a plot twist that seems so out of touch with the rest of the novel that it almost invalidates the beauty of the first 300 pages.  And unfortunately, it is the ending that makes the final impression on the reader.  I can only hope that it will not also be the lasting impression.	2002-05-07
US	51079773	R2BUXJK7WK1J27	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	2	16	28	N	N	Style over substance, to be appreciated but not enjoyed	Some books are meant to be appreciated, not enjoyed...and this is a fine example of such a book.  Any lover of literature will no doubt appreciate, perhaps even admire, the beautiful prose and the subtleties of language that overflow in this novel.  Sebald, as many critics have noted, somehow transcends conventional form and structure.  His dreamy, almost sonambulist narrative, is more than just unique; it exudes a sense of reverie and nostalgia that is most fitting for a book about a man in search of his identity and his past.  Sebald rarely yields to the conventional norm that sentences should not go on for pages and pages, nor the arbitrary rule that paragraphs should not continue for 20 or 30 pages.  Oh, and let us not forget the standard practice of dividing 300 page novels into neat, orderly chapters, a device which Sebald also ignores.  All of this instills in his prose a more powerful sense of internal reflection, of a man on an endless journey of personal discovery.  And the black and white photographs that accompany the narrative enhance the feeling of a man rediscovering images of his distant past.<br />Yet, alas, the book is dull, and requires effort on the part of the reader to fully appreciate.  The premise - a man returns to Czechoslovakia sixty years after his family, fearing the Nazi occupation, sent him away alone, as a four-year-old child, to England, never to see him again - is full of potential.  But instead of focusing intensively on the personal quest for identity, Sebald forces us to absorb this theme through style and form more than substance.  And such an approach will only work for the most patient of readers - of which I am not one.	2002-05-03
US	51079773	R1Z7JRMNKT1PZ	0156010593	77621968	All the Names	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Surreal and intense exploration of the human psyche	Senhor Jose, the main character of this novel and the only one with an actual name, is a low-level bureaucrat working at the Central Registry where births, deaths, and marriages are documented and stored.  In his free time, he clips news articles and pictures from magazines about his favorite famous people.  When he one day decides to pull the records of a handful of these people, he mistakenly comes home with one extra file - and thus begins his obsession with a women about whom he knows nothing more than her date and place of birth and marital status.  Was there a reason why her card ended up in his hands?  Is there something special about her?  These questions burn in the mind of Senhor Jose, an otherwise ordinary, dull individual whose obsession with this unknown woman leads him to unimagineable extremes.  What follows is an intense, sometimes surreal, thriller as Jose risks his career, his health, and his sanity to track down this mystery woman.<br />Saramago's prose style, at times, can be described as nothing less than Kafkaesque (if indeed it is fair to put a Nobel Prize-winner in the shadow of another author).  Much like in Kafka's The Trial, Saramago is able to take the most mundane of characters and situations and transform them into intensely exciting prose.  His pace is masterful throughout, racing through confrontational dialogues and then giving you just long enough to catch your breath before speeding up yet again.  His faceless, mechanical, sometimes suspicious characters take on a feeling of spine-chilling eeriness.  And many passages bear the psychological uneasiness of a traumatic nightmare, of a state of consciousness caught somewhere in between dream and reality.  And though the plot, prima facie, might seem mundane, Saramago's insights into the paranoia and obsession of his main character make it anything but.	2002-04-30
US	51079773	RO32761OG6POG	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Authoritative and exhaustively researched	David McCullough's Pulitzer prize winning biography of John Adams is exhaustively researched and authoritatively written.  It is certainly worthy of the critical acclaim it has received, if for no other reason than that it focuses a much deserved spotlight on the life and accomplishments of one of America's most important historical figures, who for whatever reason had until now remained in relative obscurity compared to his contemporaries such as George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson.  McCullough, who previously won the Pulitzer for his biography of Harry Truman, more than does justice to his subject.  In 650 pages, he examines Adams' life from his birth in Massachusetts to a humble farming family through to his death at the age of 89, highlighting not only the major accomplishments of Adams' lengthy and illustrious political career but also his personal and family relationships.  This book, in fact, is not only a biography; it is also an excellent historical appraisal of the early years of our newly-founded republic, and will be appreciated by lovers of history as well as avid biography readers.<br />McCullough draws on the thousands of letters written and received by Adams throughout his life as the basis for much of his research.  During his long separations from his wife, Abigail, they wrote each other often and shared extensive political ruminations as well as intimate feelings.  Adams also corresponded for much of his life with Jefferson and several other lesser-known political figures.  These letters provide a wealth of information about his life and allow McCullough to paint a rich tapestry of Adams' life.  We learn of Adams' early life, his education at Harvard, and his initial forays into the world of politics as an ardent support of American independence from Britain, then follow him to Europe where he honed his diplomacy skills while negotiating peace with Britain, and later vital loans for the new republic from the Netherlands.  But without doubt the most impressive writing covers his years as vice-president and then president, giving great attention to the political rivalries and intrigues of the day.<br />Even educated, knowledgeable readers will find this book worthy of close reading.  It explores in detail the peaks and valleys of Adams' relationship with Jefferson, a close friend at times but also a political rival.  It also gives close study to the behind-the-scenes machinations and back-stabbings of Alexander Hamilton, whom McCullough portrays as a political miscreant and manipulative opportunist.  And it more than does justice to the loving, respectful relationship between Adams and his wife and children.<br />If there is one potential criticism of this book, it is that McCullough may have seen Adams through slightly rose-colored glasses.  And how could this not be the case, given that so much of the primary-source material available to researchers consists of Adams' own reflections and ruminations?  Perhaps John Adams was as remarkable, respectable, and honorable a man as this book makes him seem, but he was certainly unpopular for much of his career and at times ridiculed by well-admired thinkers and government leaders.  Granted, these opposing views are fairly presented, but only after McCullough has portrayed Adams in such a positive light that it is only natural for the reader to view his critics as less impressive players driven by jealousy and ego more than altruistic intentions.t without doubt the most impressive writing covers his years as vice-president and then president, giving great attention to the political rivalries and intrigues of the day.<br />Even educated, knowledgeable readers will find this book worthy of close reading.  It explores in detail the peaks and valleys of Adams' relationship with Jefferson, a close friend at times but also a political rival.  It also gives close study to the behind-the-scenes machinations and back-stabbings of Alexander Hamilton, whom McCullough portrays as a political miscreant and manipulative opportunist.  And it more than does justice to the loving, respectful relationship between Adams and his wife and children.<br />If there is one potential criticism of this book, it is that McCullough may have seen Adams through slightly rose-colored glasses.  And how could this not be the case, given that so much of the primary-source material available to researchers consists of Adams' own reflections and ruminations?  Perhaps John Adams was as remarkable, respectable, and honorable a man as this book makes him seem, but he was certainly unpopular for much of his career and at times ridiculed by well-admired thinkers and government leaders.  Granted, these opposing views are fairly presented, but only after McCullough has portrayed Adams in such a positive light that it is only natural for the reader to view his critics as less impressive players driven by jealousy and ego more than altruistic intentions.	2002-04-28
US	51079773	RXUYGLCEWSACS	0452280028	870933522	Billy Bathgate	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A remarkable work of literature that is also a page-turner!	Rarely does an award-winning work of literature read as easily as a Michael Crichton paperback.  If you are in the mood for a quick read, you would normally turn to the pop fiction selections on your bookshelf and find something mindless and plot driven.  If you are looking for a higher level of quality, such as a Pen/Faulker Award winner, you perhaps consciously prepare yourself for the added effort that reading a meaningful, elaborate, character-driven novel entails.  You will almost certainly be rewarded for the effort, but it is an effort nonetheless.  But in Billy Bathgate, E.L. Doctorow blends the depth, substance, and beauty of a quality work of literature with the pace, suspense, and rhythm of a mafia thriller.  The result is an imminently readable novel that is also an important contribution to 20th century fiction.<br />The plot itself bears much resemblance to countless other mafia stories, filled with shady characters, ruthless hit men, brutal murders, bribing of government officials, and steamy love affairs.  The uniqueness lies in the fact that the narrator is a 15-year-old boy, Billy, eager to earn the trust of Dutch Schultz, the mafia kingpin, and his gang.  He quickly progresses from simple errand boy, buying cigarettes and coffee, to a position of modest responsibility in this intriguing world of crime.  Through Billy's somewhat nave, innocent eyes, we observe Dutch as he manages his empire, carries out hits against his enemies and disloyal employees, and struggles to evade the attempts of law enforcement to bring him down.  The story takes us from New York City to Onondoga, a small town where Dutch's trial eventually takes place.  And in the process, we witness the growth of a boy into a young man as he enters a world of big money, intense loyalty, and vindictive violence.  Throughout, Doctorow's beautiful prose, gift for understatement, and masterful sense of timing create a remarkable novel that will linger in the reader's mind long after the last page has been read.ast page has been read.	2002-04-21
US	51079773	R7ZJGXLO7SW6I	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	2	35	56	N	N	Bold experiment, yes - timeless classic, no	To The Lighthouse was an ambitious, brave experiment in literature, a bold venture into stream-of-consciousness techniques and profound themes relating to the fundamental differences between the sexes.  It deserves to be recognized as an important contribution to 20th century fiction.  Alas, that does not mean that it deserves to be read.  It was far too tedious, and relied to a great extent on style and literary technique to drive it forward.  And while I rarely go searching for \\"an easy read,\\" nor do I seek out plot-driven novels, this book was simply too far towards the opposite extremes to be enjoyable.<br />The most highly regarded of Virginia Woolf's many books, To The Lighthouse focuses on the Ramseys, a British family in the 1910s and their interactions with family friends at their vacation home in Scotland.  I wish I could say more about the plot, but frankly, not much happens.  Oh, sorry, they keep talking about sailing out to the Lighthouse (and eventually they do, even).  But this book is not about plot.  It is about the emotional and philosophical ruminations of Woolf's characters, none of whom is particularly sympathetic or engrossing.  Woolf juxtaposes the rational, abrasive Mr. Ramsay with the pleasant, introspective Mrs. Ramsay in an attempt to make profound statements about the differences between men and women.  Woven into this central issue are the themes of love and art.  Perhaps this book was revolutionary when it was first written, but can it appropriately be considered timeless?  Given its limited appeal to even the most avid, intelligent readers of today, I think the answer is 'no.'	2002-04-19
US	51079773	R1XMQ73ERU0NJ6	0679748989	655716976	The Ghost Writer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Do writers have a responsibility to society?  YES!	Philip Roth, more than any other author living today, has the power to take your breath away with a single sentence, sometimes a single word.  There is an intelligence and beauty to his prose that is, at times, simply stunning.  The Ghost Writer is no exception.  In it, Roth begins with a relatively simple plot - the young Nate Zuckerman, an aspiring writer, spends an evening with the renowned author E.I. Lonoff, in hopes of adopting the latter as a literary mentor.  From there, and in only 180 pages, Roth embarks on a tour de force that explores the nature of a writer's responsibility to society.  The three main characters in the novel are all authors, and Roth masterfully juxtaposes their differing approaches to their work.  Zuckerman resents his family's insistence that he not publish a story that they feel negatively portrays Jewish stereotypes (and his own family members, no less).  Feeling no moral responsibility in a larger context, his views are juxtaposed against a famous writer who feels his life's work has had no profound impact and has been little more than a meaningless intellectual exercise.  And both of them pale in comparison to the social ramifications of the writings of Ann Frank, who plays a prominent role as a character.  In this way, Roth confirms the importance and value of literature as a social and political force.  And who better to make this argument than one of the most important and influential prose writers of the 20th century?	2002-04-17
US	51079773	R1PAWNEQSGKNQP	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A classic to be cherished	Is it possible to dramatically change your character, who you are fundamentally, in order to adapt to your environment?  This is the profound question that Jack London explores in this timeless classic.  Buck, a dog accustomed to an easy life as the pet of a well-to-do family, is kidnapped and forced to work as a sled dog during the Klondike gold rush of 1897.  Facing brutal weather, harsh treatment from his masters, and fierce rivalry from the other dogs, Buck is forced to call upon the instincts of his ancestor, the wild wolf, in order to survive in these hostile conditions.<br />Filled with raw, powerful prose , intense action, and beautifully drawn protagonists, this novel is as much a profound statement about character as it is an edge-of-your-seat adventure.  London unflinchingly traces Buck's transformation from loveable pet to fierce, rugged animal, but never let's the reader forget the tenderness and compassion that will always be at the core of this character.  And in the end, Buck struggles with the most fundamental of dilemmas - mustering the courage to accept his true nature and to acknowledge who he has become.  This is a book about life's journey, about living bravely, about playing the cards you are dealt and finding your true calling.  It is a classic to be treasured.	2002-04-15
US	51079773	R1XFC9Y7UXFOER	0375412123	802156532	A Multitude of Sins	Books	4	19	21	N	N	An unflinching yet compassionate study of infidelity	Richard Ford is undoubtedly one of America's finest authors.  More than any other writer today, he has a special gift for creating characters with undeniable humanity.  In this new collection of short stories, not his best work but excellent nonetheless, each character feels truly genuine, with human flaws and weaknesses that we all can relate to.  Infidelity and its consequences is the main theme here, and Ford explores it with all the grace, subtlety, and compassion that readers have come to expect from him.  The stories, for the most part, focus on everyday occurrences; Ford's work rarely relies on intriguing plot twists, but rather profound explorations of emotion and the human experience.  In \\"Reunion,\\" inspired by a John Cheever story, a man encounters the husband of a woman with whom he briefly had an affair, and stumbles through an awkward yet revealing conversation, set in the middle of Penn Station.  In \\"Under the Radar,\\" a woman admits to her husband that she had a brief affair with the host of a dinner party they are on their way to attend.  In \\"Privacy,\\" a man takes stock of his marriage after finding himself drawn to his neighbor, whose nude figure he views regularly from his apartment window.  In each, Ford is deeply interested in the inner motivations of his characters.  What makes them love?  What makes them cheat?  How do they justify their infidelities, both to themselves and their spouses?  And how do they ultimately deal with their own guilt and the pain they have caused to those around them?  Each of these questions is answered unflinchingly and unapologetically, but with the tenderness and charm for which Richard Ford's prose is well known.	2002-04-14
US	51079773	RN7ZLBMNHGK39	0060929863	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	A timeless classic, and one of life's great questions	The Bridge Of San Luis Rey is appropriately categorized as a timeless classic of literature.  After a bridge collapses in Peru, killing five people, a priest begins to explore their lives in hopes that he might find some indication of why God chose these five people to die.  In doing so, he explores one of life's great questions.  He arrives at no clear answer, and yet his intellectual journey leaves the reader with a sense that life is not without meaning.  For while we may not be able to explain why these lives ended so abruptly, or whether God even played a role in their fate, we see that each led a unique, special existence.  In the end, the moral of this story is abundantly clear - that life is short and must be cherished.	2002-04-12
US	51079773	R3FLEQN7RGKFLW	0345389964	946634305	A Son of the Circus	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Circus dwarfs and transsexual murderers - Vintage Irving	A Son of the Circus is certainly John Irving's most ambitious novel to date, if not his finest.  Irving fans who adore the eccentric characters and bizarre, over-the-top plot twists that Irving is known for will find much to enjoy in this novel.  Rest assured, there are enough prostitutes, transvestites, transsexuals, midgets, and instances of mistaken identity and sexual confusion to keep die-hard Irving fans entertained for hours.  While this book rates behind Garp, Owen Meany, and others on the long list of Irving's works, it is a pleasurable read and surprisingly quick for its 682 pages.<br />As with any Irving novel, an attempt to summarize the plot in a few short words, or even paragraphs, would fail miserably.  Once again, Irving has chosen a colorful locale as the backdrop for his zany cast of characters - this time, it's in Bombay, India.  There we meet Dr. Farrokh Daruwalla, an Indian who has lived most of his life in Canada but returns periodically to his place of birth.  Daruwalla is an orthopedic surgeon by day and closet screenwriter by night.  He is also a life-long fan of the circus, of which there are many in India.  His cast of friends includes several circus performing dwarfs, the perpetual star of Daruwalla's detective movies (who always seems to be slightly in character), the movie star's long-lost twin brother, who is in training as a Jesuit priest, and the local police detective investigating a series of murders at the posh country club.  With a group like this, and the inevitable intrigue and suspense of an upper-crust murder mystery, the action and the comedy are in abundance.<br />And yes, there is the slightly sentimental element that Irving has such a gift for.  Daruwalla is a man who feels he has no home.  As his father once told him, an immigrant is always an immigrant.  He worries he will never be fully accepted in Canada, and will never truly be able to consider himself an Indian.  His story is as much a comedic jaunt through India as it is a story about a man in search of his inner identity.  And as always, Irving blends these themes with grace and tenderness.it is a story about a man in search of his inner identity.  And as always, Irving blends these themes with grace and tenderness.	2002-04-06
US	51079773	R37X6PBF8C2IM1	067946333X	477028395	Fury: A Novel	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Flawed and misguided - reads like an unpolished rough draft	Imagine a beautiful novel that masterfully blends a genre within a genre, such as Michael Chabon's Kavalier & Klay, in which a magnificent work of literature is set against the backdrop of the world of comic book writing, with story and sub-story feeding seemlessly into each other.  Now imagine an utter failure of an attempt at this structure, and you have Salman Rushdie's Fury, a flawed and misguided mix of literature, fantasy, and science fiction.  Rushdie's latest novel, while filled with the magical prose that he is known for, too often reads like an unpolished rough draft.  Malik Solanka, the main character, is a man consumed by fury who escapes his wife and child in London because he is overcome by fear that he will kill them.  He finds himself in New York, a city itself filled with fury and extraordinary wealth, and attempts to reconcile his wild thoughts and emotions in a world that at times seems out of control.  Through his love affairs, his venture into the world of science fiction, and his tangential contact with a series of murders, we venture deep into the soul of a man tortured by the darkest sides of human nature.<br />Sound interesting?  It might be, if it were well written.  The book's themes are important and powerful, but their presentation is seriously flawed.  Rushdie's tendency to prioritize style over substance and structure leaves this novel with an unfinished feeling.  The book wanders aimlessly at times, and unfortunately lost this reader's interest long before the suspense-less climax.  While Rushdie is rightly considered one of the master practitioners of English prose, this is far from his finest work.	2002-03-28
US	51079773	R3LJXFZVT8ES43	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A haunting portrait of artistic obsession	Though not his most famous novel, Maugham's The Moon and Sixpence is as much a literary accomplishment as better-known works such as Of Human Bondage and The Razor's Edge.  From start to finish it is a powerful, moving, sometimes haunting portrait of a man obsessed with his art.  Inspired by the events in the life of Paul Gauguin, this gem of a novel follows Charles Strickland, a seemingly normal, well-to-do, slightly dull Londoner as he abruptly abandons his family, friends, and career to pursue a personal odyssey of artistic creativity.  With no advance notice and nothing more than a terse, post-departure note to his wife, Strickland moves to Paris where he abandons the luxuries of his comfortable London life to live and paint in a small, dingy apartment.  With few friends, little money, and an often-ornery personal demeanor, he struggles to survive while he devotes himself slavishly to his artistic obsession.<br />At first glance Charles Strickland wins little admiration from the reader.  After all, how can one look up to a man who feels no obligation to his wife and children?  How can the reader sympathize with a man who abandons a successful career in order to paint, a vocation for which he has previously demonstrated neither great talent nor great interest.  Maugham makes no attempt to portray Strickland through rose-colored glasses.  Strickland is a man completely devoted to his art, so obsessed that he completely ignores his family, welfare, and health.  He lives his life as a semi-recluse, working prolifically in his studio yet neither showing nor selling his work to anyone.  As with many artists, his true genius was not acknowledged until after his death.<br />Despite these seemingly unsympathetic qualities, Strickland without doubt comes to be viewed as a hero of sorts.  Here is a man bold enough to risk everything to pursue his dream, a man with sufficient character to disregard those who scoffed at him, and ultimately a man with true artistic genius.  And yes, there is an element of tragic heroism in his sometimes self-destructive struggle against insurmountable odds.<br />Maugham's writing is at its finest in this tightly crafted, elegantly written novel.  As in many of his other works, we find here the first-person narrative so characteristic of Maugham.  Our unnamed narrator, himself a writer, is a keen observer of events and emotions.  And though he is a minor protagonist as well, he remains far enough removed from the central action of the novel that he never loses his sense of objectivity.  The reader comes to rely on him as a trusted friend.  And because of this relationship between narrator and reader, Maugham is able to paint a sympathetic portrait of his central character that the reader cannot help admiring.nd yes, there is an element of tragic heroism in his sometimes self-destructive struggle against insurmountable odds.<br />Maugham's writing is at its finest in this tightly crafted, elegantly written novel.  As in many of his other works, we find here the first-person narrative so characteristic of Maugham.  Our unnamed narrator, himself a writer, is a keen observer of events and emotions.  And though he is a minor protagonist as well, he remains far enough removed from the central action of the novel that he never loses his sense of objectivity.  The reader comes to rely on him as a trusted friend.  And because of this relationship between narrator and reader, Maugham is able to paint a sympathetic portrait of his central character that the reader cannot help admiring.	2002-03-24
US	51079773	R3ATVW1XCZLSMS	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	4	14	15	N	N	"Every choice is a world made new for the chosen."	This beautifully written book, along with the critically acclaimed Poisonwood Bible, which preceded it, firmly establishes Barbara Kingsolver as one of America's great living authors.  Prodigal Summer is at once immensely heartwarming, painfully tragic, hilariously funny, and filled with beauty and love.  It is a novel not only driven by characters, but also by setting and environment.  Indeed, the rugged, rural mountains of Appalachia are such a vivid image in this novel and such an integral part of what the novel is about that they seem to take on the role of a central character.  And the ever-present theme of nature, the environment, and the interdependence of all of nature's creatures is so strongly felt throughout the book that one cannot help but feel that each tree, flower, coyote, moth, bird, and snake is indeed a character as well.<br />The beauty of Prodigal Summer, and of Kingsolver's writing in general, is the way in which she creates rich, complex, characters that the reader cannot help caring about.  Here we meet Deanna, a Forest Service ranger living a solitary existence in a primitive cabin in the mountains.  Her life experiences have taught her to be distrustful of men, and she feels at home in the wilderness with all of natures creatures as her companions, whom it is her responsibility to monitor and protect.  She is especially fond of the coyotes, a predator that she feels a responsibility to protect from the ignorant poachers who mistakenly believe they are ridding the area of a threat to farming life.  She is joined early in the novel by Eddie, a wandering coyote hunter twenty years her junior, and the ensuing love affair is more at the same time a passionate romance and a battle of wills.<br />Just a few miles away, we come to know Lusa, a city girl who has married into the conservative, traditional Widener farming family.  She quickly finds herself widowed and living on the family's land, now her own.  As she struggles with her grief and with the ghosts that visit her home, she also fights to win the respect of a family that has always viewed her as an outsider.<br />Last we have Garnett, a crusty old curmudgeon, set in his ways after 80 years and hardened by the loss of his wife and his failures as a father.  He is quietly obsessed with saving the quickly disappearing chestnut trees on his property, in such a way that one feels he is perhaps trying to leave one last legacy of his time on the earth, coming soon to an end.  His neighbor and foil, a free-spirited naturalist named Nannie, is a constant thorn in the side of this \\"God-fearing, sanctimonious old fart,\\" as she might call him.  And yet underlying their neighborly conflicts is a respect and admiration that transcends the pettiness of their quarrels.<br />These thumbnail sketches do not come close to describing the complexity and beauty of each of these characters.  Each is incredibly human in his or her own way, with hopes and dreams, fears and insecurities, failings and weaknesses.<br />And then there is Nature, that ever-present element that Kingsolver elevates to the level of a main character.  Here her degree in biology and her extensive research are evident.  She beautifully weaves her descriptions of the Appalachian environment into her narrative, and seamlessly injects a moral message without seeming overbearing.  One cannot walk away from this novel without recognizing how truly interdependent our world is - how each creature, large or small, plays its own important role.  This theme of connectivity, elegant and thoughtful in its own right, serves also as a complement to the eventual connectivity that unfolds between the novel's seemingly isolated main characters.  As Kingsolver so eloquently puts it, \\"Every choice is a world made new for the chosen.\\"  Each step, both figurative and literal, that we take in life will affect countless other creatures around us.  And that message, in the end, is what makes this not just a beautiful novel but also a profound and important work.t also a profound and important work.	2002-03-19
US	51079773	R3LM4SVTF60QFL	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	4	28	30	N	N	An elegant, powerful, period thriller - A gem of a book!	What a gem of a book!  This is a splendidly original, elegantly written, period thriller that is near impossible to put down.  The tale is set in 19th century Madrid, a time of political instability and intrigue, against the backdrop of rumored coup plots against the Spanish queen.  Don Jaime Astarloa, a proud, aging, master fencer and teacher, practices his noble art which he sees slowly losing its place within aristocratic society.  He is approached one day by a beautiful yet mysterious young woman who requests that he take her on as a student.  Though reluctant at first to instruct a woman, Don Jaime soon discovers that she is a skilled fencer.  The mystery surrounding her grows, however, when she abruptly discontinues her lessons after learning an arcane yet deadly technique that only a select few fencers can perform.  Soon thereafter, a series of murders takes place that forces Don Jaime to question whom he can trust and whether he himself is safe.<br />The Fencing Master combines a gripping plot, elegant prose, and intense, powerful descriptions of fencing duels that may at times leave you breathless.  Think of the grace and beauty in Hemingway's depiction of bullfighting in The Sun Also Rises, and you may have some sense of how masterfully Perez-Reverte has captured the essence of the art of fencing.  With each turn of the page you will feel transported to a different time and place.  The stylish prose and authoritative narrative voice fill this novel with an authentic period feel.  And each sentence conveys an understated sense of strength, pride, honor, integrity, and passion that make this book and its hero simply unforgettable.	2002-02-26
US	51079773	R2TAPO5CPP5S8E	0812580036	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	3	14	18	N	N	So much richer than the tale you knew as a child	Few works of adult literature are so well known that they become embedded in our cultural fabric the way that Oliver Twist has.  Perhaps it is because the title character is a loveable, sympathetic, young boy that the story, over time, has come to be mistaken by some for a children's tale.  And perhaps it is because I feel like I have known the story all my life that I only recently realized that I had never, in fact, read the novel.  So as I sat down to (finally) read this book, it was with a sense that I was simply revisiting a cherished story from my youth.  But as I quickly realized after a very few pages, this is adult literature in all respects - in its sophisticated, intelligent prose, its rich plot, its elaborate cast of characters, and, yes, the occasional depiction of gruesome violence.<br />Surely even those who have never read this Charles Dickens' classic could recite the basic elements of its plot.  Who among us is unfamiliar with the story of the young orphan who musters up the courage to ask, \\"Please, sir, I want some more.\\"  And yet this novel is so much more than a mere rags-to-riches story.  It is also the heartwarming story of the triumph of good versus evil and of the human spirit's ability to face down adversity.  Dickens pits an innocent child against the dangers of an uncaring world, and the story's happy ending is at once a celebration of Oliver's innocence and an affirmation of all that is right and just in society.<br />Though the prose can be tedious at times, Dickens' mastery of the English language is difficult not to appreciate.  And while some may find the plot clich&eacute;, there is sufficient tension throughout the novel to maintain the reader's interest.  For myself, I was continually surprised, as the chapters unfolded, to realize how much more there was to this classic than simply a story about an orphan who falls in with a gang of unruly pickpockets.  This is definitely worth reading, even if you feel like you have already read it as a child.a child.	2002-02-23
US	51079773	R32CHQ9XJ6BVXM	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Only Roth can create such humanity in a sexual deviant	The main character of this book, Mickey Sabbath, envisions his own epitaph as reading: \\"Morris Sabbath - `Mickey' - Beloved Whoremonger, Seducer, Sodomist, Abuser of Women, Destroyer of Morals, Ensnarer of Youth, Uxoricide, Suicide - 1929-1994.\\"  As a final self-assessment of this character's life, it is not far from the truth.  Objectively speaking, there is little in Sabbath's behavior to qualify him as a role model or inspiration for others.  And yet, somehow, Roth turns this seemingly despicable character into an undisputed hero.  Do we love Sabbath because of his overpowering humanness?  His brutal honesty?  His perseverance?  Is it because he celebrates in himself the dark elements of human sexuality that we, as individuals, must suppress in ourselves?  Or is it because Philip Roth is the most eloquent and insightful portrayer of the human soul alive today?<br />It would be easy to dismiss Sabbath as an immoral pervert, a man driven by his sexual urges with little regard for societal norms or the feelings of others.  And as such, it is also easy to reject the notion that he is anything like you and me.  He is a man who takes pride in having slept with prostitutes on more than one continent.  He is remarkably unfaithful to his wife.  He engages in bizarre sex acts with his lover.  He rummages through the drawers of a 19-year-old girl, the daughter of an old friend, looking for naked Polaroids, and finding none, settles for swiping a pair of her underwear.  And then there is the scene at his lover's grave that is too bizarre to recount here, a scene that would be nothing short of obscene and disgusting in any other author's hands, but that Roth somehow renders as a powerful expression of love and grief.  So go ahead, feel free to say that Sabbath is nothing like you, if it makes you feel better.<br />But when you are finished condemning him, look deeper at who he is and what he represents.  Sabbath is a grieving man.  He is grieving not only for the death of his free-spirited, erotic mistress, who dies a tragic death in the early pages of the novel.  He is also grieving for his own lost life as he begins to accept his own mortality.  And he is persistently haunted by the ghost of his mother and the memory of his brother.  Yes, he is a social and sexual deviant, but he is also incredibly human.  We cannot blame him for the desires and emotions that he unapologetically displays for the world to see, for they are the same desires and emotions that live in each of us.  So how can we blame him for the brutal honesty with which he lives his life and faces his demons?  It is because there is a little bit of Mickey Sabbath in each of us that makes this novel painful, at times, to read.  But that is also what makes it so exquisite and, ultimately, so true.free-spirited, erotic mistress, who dies a tragic death in the early pages of the novel.  He is also grieving for his own lost life as he begins to accept his own mortality.  And he is persistently haunted by the ghost of his mother and the memory of his brother.   Yes, he is a social and sexual deviant, but he is also incredibly human.  We cannot blame him for the desires and emotions that he unapologetically displays for the world to see, for they are the same desires and emotions that live in each of us.  So how can we blame him for the brutal honesty with which he lives his life and faces his demons?  It is because there is a little bit of Mickey Sabbath in each of us that makes this novel painful, at times, to read.  But that is also what makes it so exquisite and, ultimately, so true.	2002-02-18
US	51079773	R8ADU9B0QAKH2	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A masterful blending of substance, style, and message	In my short lifetime of reading, I have found that a good book generally distinguishes itself by one of three key elements: substance, style, or message.  Some books are a pleasure to read simply because of their gripping plot; others because of the author&#8217;s gifted prose; and yet others because they make an important statement about society or human nature.  It is rare to come across a book that masterfully blends all three elements together, and such a book is rightfully called not simply good, but great.<br />J.M. Coetzee&#8217;s novel Disgrace, recipient of the 1999 Booker Prize, is a gem of a book that begs to be read and re-read.  It is tightly written, filled with meaning, and suspenseful throughout.  In its short span of 220 pages, we develop an at times painful compassion for Professor David Lurie, a fifty-something divorc&eacute; in Cape Town, South Africa, whose more or less ordinary existence suddenly falls apart through a series of unfortunate events.  First his successful career is threatened by accusations from a young student with whom he has had a brief affair.  Seeing his professional life going up in flames, he retreats to his daughter&#8217;s farm for a short visit that soon takes on a feel of indefiniteness.  But while he is there, the two of them fall victim to a violent attack, the consequences of which threaten to tear the two of them apart.<br />The novel is an unflinching examination of human desire and emotion.  We follow David through his lustful affairs, his loneliness, his anger and resentment, and his stubborn defiance in the face of threat and opposition.  And somehow along the way we find ourselves caring for this seemingly unsympathetic character.  For despite his moral flaws, he is a character who holds to his principles and perseveres.  And whether he is wrong or right in the reader&#8217;s mind, it is clear that his heart is in the right place as he struggles for what he believes is right.<br />On a broader scale, the novel is also a frank portrait of modern South Africa, a country riddled by racial issues in a new, emerging era in which old paradigms no longer exist and new models have yet to be defined.  Coetzee depicts this phenomenon at a very personal level in his account of the seemingly cooperative relationship between Lurie&#8217;s daughter and her African neighbor who assists in the management of her farm.  Despite the cordial ties between the two and the sense that they operate as equals, there is a thick, underlying tension throughout the narrative.  While her neighbor outwardly displays friendship and caring, there is a persistent uncertainty about his true intentions and where his loyalties lie.  And beneath the surface of their relationship, there are deep social issues that point to a society in transformation that is far from discovery racial harmony.<br />Ambitious, compassionate, at times harsh, and courageous throughout, this is the kind of book that reminds readers of what great literature can achieve.o a frank portrait of modern South Africa, a country riddled by racial issues in a new, emerging era in which old paradigms no longer exist and new models have yet to be defined.  Coetzee depicts this phenomenon at a very personal level in his account of the seemingly cooperative relationship between Lurie&#8217;s daughter and her African neighbor who assists in the management of her farm.  Despite the cordial ties between the two and the sense that they operate as equals, there is a thick, underlying tension throughout the narrative.  While her neighbor outwardly displays friendship and caring, there is a persistent uncertainty about his true intentions and where his loyalties lie.  And beneath the surface of their relationship, there are deep social issues that point to a society in transformation that is far from discovery racial harmony.<br />Ambitious, compassionate, at times harsh, and courageous throughout, this is the kind of book that reminds readers of what great literature can achieve.	2002-02-08
US	51079773	R32NZWXDW0ETW	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Boring, tedious, and unintelligent	What a disappointment!  This was my first introduction to Stephen King suspense fiction, and it reinforced why I have avoided this genre in the past.  The plot was predictable, the prose was unsophisticated, and the combination of those two factors made the book a bore to read.  I have always looked down upon pop fiction, in general, with a certain sense of literary arrogance, but for some reason I elevated Stephen King to a level slightly above the likes of John Grisham and Danielle Steele, but after reading Black House I have to wonder why.  This book is the kind of frivolous, unintelligent trash that barely deserves a slot on the paperback shelf in an airport bookstore.<br />Black House, the sequel to The Talisman, follows Los Angeles detective Tom Sawyer to small town Wisconsin where he plans to enjoy his early retirement.  He is quickly drawn back to active duty after several local children are abducted and murdered by an apparent copycat killer known as the Fisherman.  Sawyer&#8217;s pursuit of the killer leads him to the Territories, a mysterious, parallel world of Twinners and mystical powers.  Jack&#8217;s investigative skills, supernatural powers, along with some help from the Territories, lead him to a dark, secluded house &#8211; the black house &#8211; where unearthly evil powers torture small children with rabid dogs, supersized attack crows, and electric stun guns.<br />Sound interesting?  It&#8217;s not.  The supernatural plot elements, for which King has been highly regarded throughout his writing career, are childish and completely unsatisfying.  This book is written at the third grade level, and if you consider yourself more intelligent than that, you should avoid it.	2002-02-06
US	51079773	R8YJF9BSIV1DA	1582431868	7310827	Cassada	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Minimalist prose, stunted character development	Michael Dirda of the Washington Post writes of James Salter, \\"He can, when he wants, break your heart with a sentence.\\"  I unfortunately did not come across any such sentence in Cassada, Salter's re-write of one of his early, unsuccessful novels.  Salter certainly has a distinguishing prose style, which some will find appealing.  His is very much the minimalist approach to writing, and progressing through this text conjures images of traveling through a barren desert.  Terse sentences and short chapters are the defining characteristics of his prose, noticeably void of lengthy descriptive passages or flowery imagery.<br />Of course, there is nothing wrong, per se, with this style of writing.  Hemingway was the master of minimalist prose, rarely inserting a superfluous adjective, simile, or metaphor.  But in Salter's case, it seems that more words may have helped to add depth to characters that clearly have the potential to engage the reader but unfortunately fall short.  Cassada, the central figure in this novel, is an air force pilot based in Europe shortly after World War II.  He has all the essentials of an intriguing character - talent, determination, cockiness, self-destructive stubbornness, and a tragic end - but there simply is not enough prose to truly make the reader feel a bond with him.  Think of how you felt when Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt met his tragic end in From Here to Eternity.  You just don't feel that way about Cassada.<br />Which is not to say that this book is without merit.  It is engrossing at points, and Salter has few rivals in his ability to describe the experiences of a military pilot.  And it is precisely in that vein that his prose style becomes effective, for his sparse passages adeptly portray the lonely yet bold nature of his characters.	2002-01-30
US	51079773	R3586U3MBR98PY	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A solid overview of al-Qaeda, CNN-style	Peter Bergin, as most readers are aware, was during the 1990s a highly regarded CNN correspondent, and his recent book Holy War, Inc. reads more like an in-depth journalistic report than a scholarly work.  Depending on what the reader is hoping for, this statement may be interpreted as either a compliment or a criticism.  But however one interprets this assessment, it should not be inferred that Bergen is not deeply knowledgeable in his subject matter, nor that his book is not thoroughly researched.  It is simply a statement of fact that Holy War, Inc. is more reporting than analysis, and is sprinkled throughout with humorous anecdotes, wry wit, and introductions and digressions that at times give it the feel of a travel book as much as a serious work of social science.<br />Having said that, Holy War, Inc. is an extremely readable, and for now authoritative, account of how Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda organization manages its global jihad against the West.  The book is both an historical account and a current assessment, both a study of an individual and a study of an international terrorist network.  Bergen traces how al-Qaeda grew from its roots in the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion to become a worldwide organization that masterminded, funded, and executed numerous terrorist activities around the globe.  Throughout, Bergen provides a comprehensive overview of al-Qaeda's key players and carefully dissects how it carried out its acts of terror, including the east Africa embassy bombings, the attack on the U.S.S. Cole in Yemen, and the recent attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.  In the course of his writing, Bergen interviewed officials in American and foreign intelligence services, members of the al-Qaeda network, and most impressively, Osama bin Laden himself.<br />Bergen devoted several years to the research and writing of this book, and the time and effort he put in are evident.  What is also evident is that the publication date was pushed up by nine months in the aftermath of September 11.  Originally scheduled to arrive in bookstores in summer 2002, Bergen finalized his manuscript in just two weeks after the recent attacks.  While certainly more timely, the book is unpolished at points and could have benefited from a more thorough job of editing (at the very least for typos and punctuation).  But this is a minor criticism of an otherwise highly commendable work, suitable for anyone seeking a broad overview of Osama bin Laden and his global terrorist network.pushed up by nine months in the aftermath of September 11.  Originally scheduled to arrive in bookstores in summer 2002, Bergen finalized his manuscript in just two weeks after the recent attacks.  While certainly more timely, the book is unpolished at points and could have benefited from a more thorough job of editing (at the very least for typos and punctuation).  But this is a minor criticism of an otherwise highly commendable work, suitable for anyone seeking a broad overview of Osama bin Laden and his global terrorist network.	2002-01-27
US	51079773	R2RDJP3R864M6K	0375707166	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A portrait of rural Trinidad and one man's quiet struggle	A House For Mr. Biswas, the acclaimed novel by Nobel prize-winning author V.S. Naipaul, reads like an epic and is clearly the work of an accomplished writer.  Naipaul's depiction of one man's life, beginning with his birth in rural Trinidad at which time he is labeled as \\"cursed\\" by the local holy man, is an extraordinary account of an ordinary man and his struggle to provide for his family.  So why does this book, filled with beautiful prose, memorable characters, and heart-wrenching events, feel like it is about 200 pages too long?<br /><br />Mohun Biswas, an ethnic-Indian born in Trinidad in the early 1900s, abruptly marries into the Tulsi family, and his life is from that point on dominated by his controlling mother-in-law, Mrs. Tulsi, and Seth, her brother and head of the Tulsi household.  The Tulsi family provides him with housing and various jobs, ranging from managing their dry goods store to supervising their farm, but they also provide him with constant harassment and grief.  Mr. Biswas longs for the day that he can own his own home, and his pursuit of this goal is the novel's persistent theme which gives it its epic quality.<br />A House For Mr. Biswas is, ultimately, a finely crafted novel.  Naipaul's powerful, moving prose beautifully depicts the struggle, pain, and sorrow of one man's life; at the same time he paints a calm and full portrait of the ethnic-Indian experience in rural Trinidad.  In many ways, this book does for rural Trinidad what John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath does for Salinas, California.  It's only flaw, perhaps, is that the book's length feels somewhat forced, as if Naipaul believed that a 600-page novel would more powerfully depict his character's tragic nature than, say, a 400-page novel.  The truth is that Naipaul's prose is so robust, and his characters so genuinely human, that A House For Mr. Biswas achieved the status of epic long before its final page.	2002-01-26
US	51079773	R3U6VOY0416DCO	0684855674	684726721	Does America Need a Foreign Policy? : Toward a Diplomacy for the 21st Century	Books	2	18	25	N	N	Mediocre work from a brilliant mind	Whatever your views on Henry Kissinger as a practitioner of international relations, it is difficult to deny his genius as an academic in the field.  One may disagree with his politics or with the ultra-realist approach he used in guiding U.S. foreign policy as Nixon's secretary of state, one may even go so far as to call him a war criminal.  But as a chronicler of modern diplomatic history, he has few rivals.  Having read his seminal work Diplomacy, a masterpiece in which he traces diplomatic relations from the time of the Treaty of Westphalia through present day, it was with eager anticipation that I awaited his most recent work, Does America Need a Foreign Policy?  What could be more exciting for a student of international affairs than a prescription for 21st century American diplomacy from America's consummate diplomatist?<br />The book, unfortunately, does not even live up to its own title, much less the expectations it inherits by virtue of its author's reputation.  Kissinger does not truly attempt to answer the question implicit in the book's rhetorical title - namely, that assuming America does need a foreign policy, what should that foreign policy look like?  Instead he traces historical developments and foreign policy trends, divided neatly into geographic regions, and ends each discussion with a brief, all-too-vague, and not-at-all bold prescription for how our country's leaders should proceed in the future.  For instance, in his discussion of Europe and trans-Atlantic relations, his boldest assertion is that the U.S. should support the strengthening of the EU as a means of keeping Russia in check.  In Asia, he argues that close relations with Japan will be more productive in preventing the emergence of a hostile, dominant China than the current course of inflammatory rhetoric and aggressive policies.  And in his chapter on globalization, he focuses most of his attention on a thorough excoriation of the IMF and its failures in the Asian, Russian, and Latin American financial crises, without offering much in the way of solutions.  It is ironic that his most opinionated chapter - the one on peace and justice - is also his most predictable.  Is it any surprise that Kissinger, who in recent years has been accused by some of war crimes, would argue strongly against the authority of the International Criminal Court, and take up the legal crusade of Augusto Pinochet?<br />In its favor, this book is certainly very readable.  But don't we expect more than that from the likes of Henry Kissinger?  When I read the work of such a brilliant mind, I almost feel disappointed if I don't feel a need at the end to go back and re-read passages or even entire chapters.  In this case I felt neither the need, nor the desire, to do so.n American financial crises, without offering much in the way of solutions.  It is ironic that his most opinionated chapter - the one on peace and justice - is also his most predictable.  Is it any surprise that Kissinger, who in recent years has been accused by some of war crimes, would argue strongly against the authority of the International Criminal Court, and take up the legal crusade of Augusto Pinochet?<br />In its favor, this book is certainly very readable.  But don't we expect more than that from the likes of Henry Kissinger?  When I read the work of such a brilliant mind, I almost feel disappointed if I don't feel a need at the end to go back and re-read passages or even entire chapters.  In this case I felt neither the need, nor the desire, to do so.	2002-01-19
US	51079773	R2NKCRT0EIFPW3	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An ambitious portrait of a dysfunctional family	Jonathan Franzen clearly set out to write a great work of literature.  The Corrections is ambitious to say the least - at times brilliant, full of insight into the nature of the dysfunctional family, and keenly aware of the idiosyncrasies of modern-day society.  The Lamberts are in many ways a typical American family, seemingly normal on the outside and lovingly pathological on the inside.  Alfred, rapidly succumbing to Parkinson's disease, stubbornly persists in his daily routines despite an increasingly obvious inability to perform basic tasks and control his bodily functions.  Enid, his wife, lives in a perpetual state of denial, refusing to admit her failings as a mother and a spouse.  And their three children pursue their lives with, at times, reckless abandon and disregard for the pitfalls that lie ahead.  The Corrections, at its heart, is a story of learning from your mistakes and from life's experiences.  It is also a sharp, biting portrayal of early twenty-first century American culture, complete with its miracle drugs, stock market trends, and Eastern-European instability.<br />Franzen develops an elaborate plot that follows each of the five main characters through the ordinary, and at times extraordinary challenges of their everyday lives.  Denise, the youngest child, is perennially involved with married men and a workaholic chef at a trendy Philadelphia restaurant.  Chip, the middle child, has lost his tenure-track teaching position because of an affair with one of his students, and is now pursuing a quasi-legal, highly lucrative venture in Lithuania.  Gary, the oldest, and seemingly most stable of the three children, is gradually sinking into a rut of depression and frustration with his ornery wife.  As they each pursue their individual lives, Enid aggressively pursues her hope of having one last family Christmas in St. Jude, the archetypal Midwest city of old-fashioned values.<br />The Corrections is a portrayal of the sometimes deliberate, sometimes random process of growing as a human being.  Each character in his or her own way is flawed, and yet each is propelled by an inherent yearning to get things right.  Franzen creates intelligent, immensely human characters whose triumphs come more often than not in baby steps.  And while he creates a novel that is, at its core, character-driven, he eloquently juxtaposes traditional Midwestern values of Enid's and Alfred's generation against the rapidly-changing world of their children.  Only time will tell whether The Corrections becomes a classic period piece of the early twenty-first century, but regardless, it is justly praised for its rich characters and big-hearted plot.andom process of growing as a human being.  Each character in his or her own way is flawed, and yet each is propelled by an inherent yearning to get things right.  Franzen creates intelligent, immensely human characters whose triumphs come more often than not in baby steps.  And while he creates a novel that is, at its core, character-driven, he eloquently juxtaposes traditional Midwestern values of Enid's and Alfred's generation against the rapidly-changing world of their children.  Only time will tell whether The Corrections becomes a classic period piece of the early twenty-first century, but regardless, it is justly praised for its rich characters and big-hearted plot.	2002-01-17
US	51079773	R33XT90POWQSXS	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A masterful treatise on lust and aging	This treatise on lust as a life force, juxtaposed against the onset of old age and the acceptance of one's inevitable mortality, is worthy of mention in the same breath as Nabokov's masterful treatise on love, Lolita.  Like Lolita, the emotional power of the prose quickly forces the reader to disregard the immorality inherent in the significant age difference between the main character and the object of his desire.  The narrator, David Kepesh, is a 62-year-old college professor who routinely seduces his female students.  But in his relationship with the 24-year-old Consuela, he finds himself enslaved by his lust for her.  Through Kepesh, Roth eloquently explores the conflict between lust and personal freedom, and the struggle to come to terms with the onset of old age and one's own mortality.<br />Philip Roth is without doubt America's most eloquent literary voice, and The Dying Animal is perhaps his finest work.	2001-12-22
