US	51078460	R5CJ6G2R69233	0967126509	505378426	Diagonally-Parked in a Parallel Universe : Working Through Social Anxiety	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent. Has helped me a lot	I have been reading a lot of self-help literature lately and have passed thru most of the classics, from Dale Carnegie to Maxwell Maltz and others. I tried stuff like &quot;Feeling Good&quot;, &quot;Learned Optimist&quot; and many others. This little book with the tacky cover stands out when it comes to the social anxiety aspects. I've always felt too shy and sometimes too pessimistic. That sparked my urge to search for motivational titles and anything that could help. Some are interesting, others plain useless. This book however felt different. For a start, it is not full of padding. I actually managed to get some content out of every page. Plus, it's not full of self-promotion, does not mention seminars, previous books, etc. It feels as if the author is primarily interested in passing the content, something that isn't always felt. <br />But the biggest advantage is perhaps the &quot;Wow, this is me&quot; feeling I got while reading it. Anyone who has been feeling &quot;shy&quot; for most of their life should consider taking a look at this. The book covers a lot of aspects in life, including work ,dating, job interviews, etc, but in general, the biggest advantage to me was getting to understand myself better.<br />It will explain you very well why you behave the way you do. The flaws? Well, it covers many possible ways to approach your thoughts and improve, but unfortunately, it is more effective at explaining you what's going on than at helping you solve it. There are no clear methods, no programs, no suggestions. The author tells you about several possible ways to deal with issues and lets you try things for yourself. Once you understand how you think, you can define your own tactic.<br />I find this a drawback in a way, but not totally. After all, books preaching one-size-fits-all solutions have mostly proved useless to me.<br />As a complement to this book I recomment perhaps &quot;The Magic of Thinking Big&quot;, by David Schwartz You can also try &quot;Feeling Good&quot;, which is useful, but definitely a lot longer than it should have been.	2003-08-30
US	51078460	R1DCK0UQAEXPH0	0465051391	947830757	The Positive Power Of Negative Thinking	Books	2	59	74	N	N	Full of redundancy. Little practical use.	This has been wasted money for me. I buy a lot of self-help and psychology books and seldom buy anything that I later find almost useless. While this book has good content, it is simply not useful.<br />Sure, it helps you understand your pessimism a bit better, it even tries to convince you that it's not so bad. And maybe it isn't. <br />My problem with this book is the fact that it is extremely full of redundancies. There are paragraphs that area almost equal to previous paragraphs. This would have resulted in a great 50 page book, but all these pages are full of wordy redundancy. It reads like a poorly compressed and summarized academic work.<br />Worse, it does not supply you with a method or a line of action. I don't mean a one-size-fits-all program, but general guides on how to optimize your life considering that, well, you might be a bit different.<br />This is after all, a book about Pessimist and Anxiety, and I did not find how to \\"perform at my peak\\". Not at all. When I finished it, I was sure I have gotten good information out of it, but was it worth all the time and money? Unfortunately, no, it wasn't.<br />I believe Julie Norem has the potential to come up with quality work on this area, but it will take more effort, better research and definitely much clearer and succint writing. There is no merit in taking 2 paragraphs to say exactly the same thing you can say in one sentence, which in fact, you had already said before. <br />So beware. If you read it as an academic work, I have no comment, but if you consider yourself too pessimist and anxious sometimes and are looking for ways to understand yourself better and optimize your life, well, I do not recommend this.<br />The most useful book I have found so far regarding anxiety was the suprising \\"Diagonally parked in a Parallel universe\\" by Signe A. Dayhoff. I strongly recommend it, it has been one of the books that has helped me. <br />As for pessimism, well, it depends, to me personally, books that helped have been \\"The magic of thinking big\\", the old title by David Schwartz, plus the other old classics, including everything by Dale Carnegie. You can also try \\"Feeling Good\\" by Burns (lots of redundancy and too long, but has some useful information). You should not expect to become radically different with those, but at least they can provide you with a few practical steps and not just random loose thoughts. <br />Yes, pessimism and anxiety do have their place in life. But so what? Is that all I was supposed to get from all these pages, Julie?	2003-08-30
US	51078460	R3AEA2H5PE331K	0671646788	720804858	The Magic of Thinking Big	Books	5	308	347	N	N	Best of its kind. Very effective simplicity. Napoleon who?	It is always shady when you see someone using the usual cliché \\"This book has changed my life!\\". While I usually don't <BR>take those comments seriously (too much money wasted in 'life-changing' books, I guess) I have to admit that sometimes<BR>a particular book hits you with more impact than usual and after a couple of years some self-examination might leave you<BR>with the impression that perhaps the author has indeed influenced your choice of paths more than you would have expected.<br />This was the case with me and Dr. Schwartz's \\"Magic\\". I am not an intense fan of self-help and motivational literature, <BR>but do read a title or two now and then. I have read many of the classics like Dale Carnegie's books (almost all), Napoleon Hill's \\"Think and grow rich\\", Covey's \\"The 7 habits of highly successful people\\" and others like \\"How to be a start at work\\", <BR>\\"The power of positive thinking\\",Psychocybernetics\\" and many more that have sold millions, are mentioned everywhere and everybody seems to love. <br />Maltz, Hill, the list goes on. The fact it that so far no book of this kind has proven to be as effective with me as this one. I<BR>even felt I have wasted too much money. Not the case with this particular book. This is the kind of title where you read things you already know, you are after all mostly just looking for motivation. That extra push to get you going in particular moments when things aren't flowing as easily as you'd wish. And for that use, my preference goes to books that have an honest simplicity. This title isn't verbose, it isn't very technical or full or scholarship, perhaps even some of its examples are fully fictional. The truth is that I don't care about that, because it has proven very effective.<br />If you are looking for something to motivate you (in any area), I suggest you try this title first. The effect with you might be quite different. <BR>Perhaps Napoleon Hill's style suits you better (I truly disliked his books) or maybe some other author. But to many of us, Schwart'z approach is perfect. I first read this over a year ago, and can now look back and see certain aspects that were definitely made easier because if it. Overall, the only thing I regret is not having found this title much sooner in my life (I'm 27), but it will no doubt still prove useful for many years. <br />As a side recommendation, I suggest you combine this with the autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, or the more accessible \\"The Art of Virtue\\" also based on Franklin's words, Dale Carnegie and as much wisdom and self-examination as you can come up with. The results won't be magic, but I'm pretty sure the improvement will be easy to notice.	2002-10-20
US	51078460	R2O1EAGLRR41BU	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Reference for seekers	My review comes perhaps from a slightly different point of view. I didn't get this book to defend any beliefs, I got it mostly to help me evaluate, to learn about the key answers that christian apologists are giving to historical, scientific and philosophical challenges. I'd say that this encyclopedia has considerable value for anyone looking into Christianity and trying to test its validity mainly from a rational approach. <BR>No matter if you are an atheist, agnostic or a follower of any religion. No matter where you currently stand - If you need a summarized collection of christian apologetics, perhaps <BR>even with a with bit of usefulness as a dictionary into general theological themes, then you should try Geisler's compilation.<br />Many contemporary issues and minds are covered, but the old key questions and subjects are often explored with more detail. I found the book lacking consistency, some areas seeming very<BR>academic and hard to digest, while others appeared to lack depth, but perhaps some of that is caused by my own current limitations at this level of knowledge.<br />A small problem in this edition annoyed me - There is no decent index of articles. This book is about 800 pages, and all you get is a list of the included articles at the end (With a few mistakes but no indication of pages). Where are the page numbers? An alphabetical list without the page numbers it utterly useless in a fat reference book. Perhaps Baker expected us write each page number on the article index as we read... :-)	2002-02-11
US	51078460	R3IWQ8U0QMP2KC	1861003986	774335400	Beginning E-Commerce with Visual Basic, ASP, SQL Server 7.0 and MTS	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's like a big, fat tutorial. Want to see more from Wrox.	A few months ago I decided to build a small e-commerce solution and picked ASP/SQL Server and IIS5 for the core technologies.  Finding Matthew Reynolds's book definitely reduced development time and helped to quickly define a line of progress. <br />I spent lots of time with this book, and got to know it in detail from the first pages to the last. A few negative aspects were:<br />1) The book is plagued by code bugs and typos. Most are already included in the errata, and of the undocumented bugs. I didn't find any that was critical but still wasted some time with the less-obvious coding errors. The Wrox support/forums were useless, spending time using your IQ power to solve the problems will be more effective.<BR>2) The interface/usability/visuals of the site are simply lousy. If you are thinking about using it for a real production site, you will have to do what I did... rewrite tons of HTML/ASP and spend some time in Photoshop/DreamWeaver or similar packages. And that is for the visuals alone.<BR>3) Lots of coding details aren't brilliant. Usability is also mostly ignored except for a few minor and very basic ideas (The logo on the top left should link to the home page, etc). Reynolds could have made the shopping experience better with just a few little details. Visually and from the customer's point of view, the site is terrible.<BR>4) There is some annoying redundancy. A few aspects are mentioned too often. Perhaps newbies will value that, but I felt the space would be better used with other things (More XML use, for instance)<br />If you are thinking about using the project as an easy production site, beware. The site is fairly generic, but many aspects (like the order pipeline system) will require lots of work to be adapted.  Most VB code will need to be rewritten (plus the visual aspect already mentioned). <BR>I also did not perform any extensive load testing, but suspect significant changes will be necessary to scale properly.  Security, input validation anderror-checking is also very basic or non-existent (the search engine appears vulnerable to SQL injection exploits, for instance). All this however, was expected, and is not really a limitation of the book, just be warned you will not get a 100% trouble free solution. As for difficulty, If you know nothing of ASP, SQL and VB, you will feel lost and should read other titles first. But if you're the kind of reader that likes to buy books always a bit more advanced, and learn on-the-fly, then don't worry. It is perfectly possible in this case.<br />This might sound negative so far, but I honestly can't give it less than 4.5/5 just because of the problems mentioned. Books like this one aren't very common. Reynolds basically created a really fat tutorial and will practically hold your hand from start to finish. You will get a fairly clear (but simplified) view of the whole process of implementing a Microsoft e-commerce solution - planning, coding, hosting, customer care, etc. <br />In my particular case, I organized a few basic areas to cover based on Reynold's tips, used lots of his VB objects as the basis for mine, and collected ideas. After a few weeks adding \\"extras\\", rewriting stuff and gathering more details from other sources, I came up with a very acceptable small e-commerce site. <br />Overall...I didn't like Reynold's site, but I like mine, and I saved a lot of time building it thanks to this title. I know his approach works, because I have followed it from start to finish. It is not the best way to do it, but it works, and it has considerable potential to help you learn while you're building it. <br />I look forward to similar approaches from Wrox on other technologies (ASP.Net, PHP/MySQL/Apache, etc) and now I check Reynold's articles on ASP Today and C# Today more often than before. Not perfect, but not bad... not bad at all... 4.5/5	2002-02-10
US	51078460	R27R51Q79IO4NM	0880386525	635466760	The Dragonlance Chronicles Trilogy (Collectors Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A must-read for fantasy fans.	This compilation seems to be out of print at the time, but it's still worth buying the 3 books separately. I read this compilation several years ago and still remember how much it suprised me. I got it as a present and felt suprised by the really addictive writing style of Weis and Hickman. Being a Tolkien fan I had a &quot;Pff, this won't come close to the master's work&quot; moment from my snob side  when I first looked at it. It was my first Dragonlance title, and while I enjoy fantasy titles (but don't read as much of it as I used to), I now often recommend this compilation of 3 titles for anyone who is just trying to take a first look at fantasy worlds. Yes, it is not as masterful and rich as Tolkien, but it is perhaps much more accessible to new fantasy readers, and at the same time, appealing even to the most demanding fans. Very good work, often delicious. You'll be turning pages at high speed.	2001-06-14
US	51078460	R2B5Q77HOW0BCH	1580630898	375690641	Divine Guidance: How to Have a Dialogue with God and Your Guardian Angels	Books	2	21	48	N	N	Almost useless. Better titles on the subject are available.	I've been hearing a lot on the angel hype lately and decided to check out this book, especially because it seemed to focus on trying to achieve a sort of connection to (quoting the publishers) \\"the voice of God\\". This interest is of course only common in people that have some sort of religious belief (in any form). Being an open minded skeptic (in my case that means an inquiring theist, not an atheist)  looking for answers, I decided to take a look at this book. Unfortunately, it proved to be a complete disappointment, I honestly could not get much out of it, and am not really curious now about Dr. Doreen Virtue, or any other of her many books and appearances on TV.  This is a great book if you're a fan of any of the angel theories, and believe in it. If you don't believe but also don't say \\"no, I'm sure it's all your imagination\\" (that's my stage), you will probably need a different approach than having the writer out of nowhere start talking about seeing angels (with wings included), hearing clear voices, feeling changes in air pressure and temperature (being touched), and lots of other strange events as if they are as common as drinking some water. <br />I'm sorry if Dr. Virtue does indeed feel all those experiences and is honestly trying to share knowledge and help everyone to see the \\"transparent people\\" she says to see, hear and have physical contact with.  I tried, but the cliché angel lines (tons of it), the outrageously lame psychological tests to see which of your senses you use more, and the overall uninspired text bored me to death.  Not to mention the usual \\"case studies\\" where it's always impossible to know more about the patients and the situations. Oh, and yes, the high redundancy... in fact, I think that when I reached page 50 I had the feeling that those 50 could all be summarized effectively in 5 pages without losing any information.<br />I'm not the kind of reader that says that all new-age authors just care about making money pumping out booksat high rate, saying the same things over and over again in different ways even when parts of it make no sense, but in this case, I had to rethink that it might apply in several cases.  I was also amused by the way she mixes all sorts of highly incompatible principles and religions in a nice soup (which includes Christianity, Buddhism, Judaism, Islam, A Course in Miracles, etc, etc,etc), in a degree that is puzzling, even for a book of this kind where it would obviously be expected.  And God? Well, overall, who cares; We like angels, and we think it's all the same anyway.<br />There are a few good thoughts, not all is bad and this title does have its virtue (no pun intended), but in general,  it is very repetitive, uninspired, and worst of all, does not manage to convince anyone who isn't intensely convinced already about any of the claims. <br />So if you are not deeply a fan of angel literature, stay away from this book. If you are still curious about the topic, try to find better titles. In any case, if you're a fan of the New Age section at the bookstore, you might what to know that another new-age title that does not directly focus on this \\"building of  relationship with the divine\\" surprisingly ends up being A LOT BETTER in providing advice on that than Dr Virtue's book (and yes, it mentions angels). That book is \\"Creating Miracles\\", by Carolyn Miller, a lot less known, a lot less Oprah-ish, but also seems to be a lot less...bad.<br />I seldom read books I end up calling \\"useless\\", and have never returned a single book in my life (not even the weirdest ones) but this one had to be the exception. Back it went. If there are indeed two angels by my side, one is probably nodding in agreement to the other's \\"You should have known better, Nuno\\". Duh.	2001-06-08
US	51078460	R2SRKVLRAJHJZG	1573922145	932256819	What Is Atheism?	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Very good for complete beginners.	This book is definitely for beginners, and has to be criticized as such. I am very open to both theist and atheist arguments, and this was a title I chose to summarize many atheist positions. <br />Krueger's writing is almost always engaging, and the book is very clear. Items are well separated, and I particularly enjoyed the short conclusion at the end of each chapter, summarizing all the arguments, very useful for the quick read just to&quot;mentally refresh&quot; some aspects. Unfortunately, the book has no Index, very few notes and poor bibliography (all from atheist and sceptical writers), and in general, does not appear to be the work of a meticulous scholar (You can compare it to introductory works of other authors and know what I mean). Krueger cover topics like &quot;What's wrong in believing on faith?&quot; and all the other questions already mentioned in the reviews. He approaches many of the most common theist arguments and tries to defuse them. My favourite section was perhaps the chapter on &quot;Can atheists have morals?&quot; which attempts to show you how that atheist friend of yours isn't necessarily such a bad guy. :-) <br />This book helped me understand atheists a bit better, and did a good job in showing the main atheist positions from a philosophical approach. My main problem with it was the fact that Krueger did not limit his writing to philosophical and theological aspects of atheism in general (Which was what I initially expected), but also tries to prove how wrong the Bible is  (other religions get away most of the time) by picking up certain passages and pointing at (possible) flaws and the usual contradictions. Sometimes he raised interesting questions and pointed at valid errors, but sometimes, it felt as if I was reading a &quot;lite&quot; version of the &quot;Encyclopaedia of Biblical Errancy&quot;.. I guess that his point is that showing Christian flaws would definitely give his central argument some extra points. True. Unfortunately, he doesn't do it so well. McKinsey screws up sometimes and ends up showing his ignorance on certain biblical topics,  revealing errors that are no errors at all once you study the subject and Krueger occasionally follows his path, and points to contradictions that have been refuted successfully many times before. I wish he didn't stray from the central ideas about religion and theism in general, since he's definitely no Bible scholar. <br />I probably should add here that I'm a &quot;beginner&quot; student of these topics, I haven't done much Bible study, but I've read some atheist arguments against the bible and also some apologetics for the past two years; The little I know was enough to refute many of Krueger's arguments against Christianity without even doing any additional research. Many of his &quot;critical Bible errors&quot; can be cleared by simply  picking up a Bible or reading some work by Bible scholars). The simplicity of several of his &quot;problems&quot; sometimes ends up weakening his cause;  In some passages, the ambiguity of the Hebrew when translated to English causes the problems, sometimes he completely misses the context surrounding the text, or kind of forces it to prove his point. But it is true that in quite a few cases, he raised valid problems about scripture, at least for my current level of knowledge.<br />Even some of the more philosophical problems of theism were poorly approached, regarding the Golden Rule (And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise) that all religions share in some form, Krueger throws it away just with the help of this rock-solid argument: &quot;Homosexuality is easily justified by this rule. A man who wants to have sex with someone obviously wants someone else to have sex with a man, and he wants this done to himself. However, if one should do to others what one wants done to one self, then he should have sex with a man too&quot;. Duh? After these two thoughts in the first pages, andseeing Krueger's inability to understand the central point of concepts that any Christian, Hindu or Muslim 10 year old child can understand I was about to start laughing until I realized I had actually paid for the book and decided to just remain quiet, hoping his arguments would get better in the next pages.:-) <br />But I still liked this book and still recommend it. It condenses a lot of information, it is very clear and it is good to help understand atheism better, good first step before you read any deeper and more technical skeptic material. I expected more philosophical arguments that covered all forms of religion and belief in god, and less anti-christian stuff (Or I would have picked better titles focusing solely on that)<br />Did reading it convince me? No, I can't say I am convinced, this is definitely not the ultimate atheist's handbook, but I can say I have my thoughts on this subject considerably better organized thanks to Krueger: A good introduction, good food for thought worth checking out, but be prepared to dedicate some time looking at what the other side has to say about it, or you might miss a few small interesting conclusions (especially that Krueger provides interesting philosophical atheist arguments but  knows less about Christianity than he'd like you to think)...	2001-05-02
US	51078460	R3BRCYMNPE2MJ7	0965416208	812598304	Easy Pic'N: A Beginners Guide to Using Pic16/17 Microcontrollers from Square 1	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Not as good as it could be, but still useful.	I used this book for a microcontroller assembly class in college last year where I had to program a 16F84 to activate and change intensity of some lights sources, controlled via RS232 with a PC interface. Overall, I guess the book was quite helpful, far from perfect, but it did make the job a lot easier.  I somewhat agree with the other reviewer that the book is a big vague sometimes and that reading the programming datasheets available on Microchip's website is essential. The datasheets are extremely complete, but sometimes they are really useful only when you know what you're looking for and how it works. Basically, they are perfect for reference, but not enough when you're learning from scratch. The book also has some code bits, for very common uses like Loops, doing For and While cycles, Time Delays,Lookup tables, interrupts, etc. The amout of info covered in about 150 pages (including the usual command and register lists) is insufficient. I often found myself needing more details. This is definitely no PIC bible. The book is also very focused on programming and not really on the electronics. You get a few circuit diagrams, but not much. (to me this was good, since I had to deal only with the assembly and not really with circuit design). <br />Overall, it is a useful book, but incomplete and  lacking better organization (not to mention the cheap and amateurish print look, but that doesn't really matter). It is worth reading if you're starting with PIC 16F84 assembly. Perhaps a bit overpriced for what it offers, but since some parts are very well explained and very clear, it is the perfect companion for the official Microchip Technology programming datasheets.	2001-04-09
US	51078460	RSMVUBK0P8NP8	0782122558	314845968	Encyclopedia of Networking (Network Press)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Extremely useful	Encyclopedia of Networking is a very valuable reference tool for anyone studying or working in the networking industry. This book has summaries of the major concepts related to networking. While this book is definitely useful, it is obviously not the ideal guide to learn from scratch, but if you have other good titles for each specific area (or general networking titles like Fred Halsall's and Tanenbaum's) you will find this very helpful when it is necessary to quickly remember the basics of a particular subject. With hundreds of acronyms out there, having this reference can save a lot of time. These books are of course obsolete even before they hit the shelves, but in any case, the essentials are covered. It has entries from simple characters (Like *, describing its common use as a wildcard) to technologies that can take hundreds of pages, like ATM,FDDI-II and wireless LANs).<br />Given the very condensed way of exposing the subjects, some explanations are extremely hard to follow unless you have previous knowledge, but if you know what's going on and are just remembering, it's perfect I should have found it earlier. :)	2001-02-21
US	51078460	R1OR96SJRH06DW	080106290X	160204274	God of the Possible: A Biblical Introduction to the Open View of God	Books	4	24	33	N	N	Accessible but strong argument for open theism.	This title is focused on challenging the traditional theological position that God always knows what is going to happen an eternity before it happens. I have been looking for some arguments of open theists, to see if their view is indeed justly motivated by a desire to be faithful to what is written in the Bible, or if it is inconsistent with it. Being a layman, I chose Boyd's work as he often excels when exposing complex theological arguments.<br />Boyd starts by explaining the classical view of divine foreknowledge, the classic theism, which follows the belief that the future is eternally settled, and that God eternally knows it as such.<br />He then proceeds to expose the option of open theism, which in part agrees with some followers of Augustine and Calvin that future events cannot cause God to know them, but Boyd also agrees with the followers of Arminius that if *ALL* future events are determined by God, then he must be ultimately responsible for everything about the future, including evil. However, Boyd fully disagrees with both views that Scripture teachers that future is exhaustively settled, and dedicates a great part of the book providing evidence for why he thinks that God chooses to leave some of the future open to possibilities, allowing them to be resolved by the decisions of free agents.   He argues that Scripture not only warrants this conclusion, but requires it, and that part of the problem is that since Plato, Western philosophy has been infatuated with the idea of an unchanging, timeless reality. &quot;Whenever we are used to hearing only one side of a story, it is easy to read our beliefs into evidence rather than allowing all the evidence to speak for itself.&quot;<br />The last part of the book tests the theory, facing problems that might be mentioned by classic theists, answering to the most common philosophical and theological objections to the open view. Boyd answers over 18 questions; For instance &quot;How can you trust a God who is uncertain about the future?&quot;<br />I was left with the impression that you can try sum up Boyd's view in a single paragraph: God decides to limit his own knowledge of the future, which then consists of things that may go one way or another. He adjusts his plans, &quot;changes his mind&quot; depending on the free agents he chose to create as such (what does or does not take place). <br />Your conclusion might depend on your own current opinion. In my case, I've heard a few times that this is &quot;dangerous reading&quot;, but fortunately, being an open-minded layman who is not (yet?) really a Christian (but who is learning about Christianity and theism), I was completely open to all views. Boyd's approach is not the ultimate truth,  I am always ready to hear what the other side has to say,  but his arguments were strong and interesting.. This book is also easily captivating to sceptics and even open-minded atheists, since in several ways, it helps making sense out of problematic issues (like the problem of evil). <br />I greatly enjoyed this book, Boyd often caused me to have to stop reading and think about his arguments, no matter if they were based on ancient documents or modern quantum physics. Great food for thought well exposed in only 172 pages, highly recommended.	2001-02-20
US	51078460	RWSSCZRHJBBL0	0393316041	33679552	Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (Adventures of a Curious Character)	Books	5	190	204	N	N	Unique moments from the life of a unique man.	It is not often that you see a Nobel-winner physicist behaving the way Feynman did, with such humour mixed with an obviously enormous amount of knowledge. Feynman was no ordinary physicist and no ordinary citizen, a rebel who could not be forced to behave like many around him.<br />This is probably the first Feynman book you should read, and it is indeed a book that anyone interested in science with a touch of good humour MUST read.  While I am definitely not a fan of those \\"just read it\\" reviews, if you are still questioning if Feynman's thoughts are worth your money, I have to say \\"think no more, and go for it\\"<br />I strongly suggest getting \\"What do you care what other people think\\"? in the same amazon order so you can read it right after. It is a book which basically shares the same type of structure, but includes more thoughts on Feynman's youth, and a more emotional story about his first wife Arlene. Both titles are full of wisdom and fun. A good 3 rd title is \\"Most of the good stuff\\". It might be useful to mention that these titles often appear to have no chronological order, and the new Feynman reader might be left somewhat confused about when and why the events where happening. That is why you should also get the excellent biography of Feynman, \\"Genius\\",  by James Gleick, which will definitely solve that problem.<br />For those who are worried about any massive amount of math and physics, fear not. That is obviously part of Feynman's work, but it is not essential for the books I mentioned. (But it is true that knowledge of the 2 subjects will probably make some thoughts more understandable. When it comes to math I often know what Feynman is talking about, as I had several years of nasty math classes in college, but when he is lost in his world of high physics, I am often left scratching my head...)<br />Unique moments from the life of a unique man. Highly recommended!	2000-12-05
US	51078460	R4APAQQVDQTXI	0201183994	709150152	A Book on C: Programming in C (4th Edition)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	One of the best books on C coding	I own several books on C, including many fast &quot;Teach yourself C in 24h&quot; and &quot;21 days&quot; titles. Kernighan's book is also classic, but it's too condensed, lacks some detailed explanations and is now a bit dated maybe. Still a good referece and the book everybody will tell you about, but if I could have only one C book, I'd keep this one instead.  A book on C is still my favorite. This book is very well written, covering the usual topics, probably in the usual order, but most of the time, in a very readable and clear way. <br />If you're a beginner some parts might be too complex for you, but with time, you'll get there. The introduction to Javascript and C++ is a nice extra too. <br />The shocked reviewer who is a beginning programmer has a point, this is not a book for absolute beginners, but if you know the basics of programming, and a little C, you won't want to miss this book, and you surely won't rate it 1 out of 5. :-) Kelley and Pohl do know how to teach, but if you know 0 when you start, you will find it a &quot;bad&quot; book. If you know nothing, don't spend your money unless you know you are dedicated enough to force yourself to read it while searching basic books, or, best option, read a couple of &quot;teach yourself C in 24h &quot;-type books first.<br />This doesn't mean begginers can't use this book. If you know the basics about programming structure and have used other languages before, that is probably enough to be able to use Pohl's book.<br />Very competent title, useful if you know little about C, and still a good reference for experienced coders. Probably one of the top 5 best C books.	2000-12-01
US	51078460	R24PSI6BHH0ES	0849938619	592168879	Church History In Plain Language	Books	4	147	152	N	N	Very compact and clear. Excellent organization of the text.	Shelley's book is indeed easy to read and very clear most of the time. The writer doesn't seem biased, so readers don't have to worry about being lead to ideas that don't really reflect what happened. The book mentions people and their motivations, and covers history from the time of Jesus until relatively modern days. <br />Sometimes it's not so easy to follow the timeline, as Shelley often jumps back and forth in time, but that lack of linearity seems to better necessary to explain some events. The subjects covered are also very dense and such brief explanation might sometimes raise more questions than those it answers. That's the price to pay for trying to cover so many years of history in around 500 pages focusing on clarity. Eventually, you might want to check other sources for a more detailed coverage. The author provides some of the major titles on each chapter, so that will be a start. I fully disagree with the reader from Oklahoma who thinks &quot;the book's format screams &quot;boring,&quot; with page after page of bare text, no text boxes, too few paragraph breaks&quot;, The second edition has nothing to point regarding that, there are many paragraphs and breaks, several sub-topics inside each chapter.  You seldom read more than 2 pages without reaching some break or topic change. In fact, that's an area where Shelley did a really good job, the text separation is superb. (I wonder what the Oklahoma reader would think about G.K.Chesterton's (brilliant) &quot;The Everlasting Man&quot;, now THAT is having NO breaks) :-)<br />Regarding content, I'll mention a few of the main topics of each chapter: The book starts with the Jesus movement, the apostles, and proceeds to the age of Catholic Christianity (Persecution, Rise of orthodoxy, the formation of the bible, the power of the bishops, etc). From there, the age of Christian Roman Empire (Conversion, doctrine of the Trinity, Augustine, The beginning of the papacy, eastern orthodoxy, etc). And we reach the Middle Ages (Gregory the great, Charlemagne and Christendom, the papacy, Scholasticism, The apostolic life-style, decline of the papacy, Wyclif and Hus,etc). In the Age of Reformation Shelly tells us about Martin Luther and Protestantism, The Anabaptists, John Calvin, the Church of England, The Catholic Reformation, America and Asia's situation, Puritanism and denominations. Next come the days of Reason and Revival (Cult of reason, Pascal and the Pietists, Wesley and Methodism and the Great Awakening). In the more recent times the book covers Catholicism in the Age of progress, 19 th  century England, protestant missions, Christian America, protestant liberalism, the social crisis, 20 th century ideologies, American evangelicals, the ecumenical movement, roman Catholicism (Vatican II), Christianity in the 3 rd world and Christianity on the world scene.  The book also has a list of popes from Leo I to present (John Paul II) and decent indexes (organized by people, movements and events).<br />The only thing I missed was perhaps a short summary of each age's central events and ideologies at the end of each chapter. (Shelley has some timeline charts, but they are not as useful). Very well organized, very compact (sometimes too much) and perfect for the layman wanting to know more about church history. This is one of the titles that come to my mind when people start asking what's truly the difference between Protestants and Catholics, for instance.<br />Well worth checking out.	2000-11-29
US	51078460	R2MVV75QXOVC6K	0201353717	965950316	The Photoshop 5/5.5 Wow! Book (5th Edition)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Very full of color, decently organized,  worth checking out	I liked Photoshop 5.5 Wow book. For a start, it has high quality color screenshots. I am still surprised to see many Photoshop and other art titles showing up printed in greyscale, good color is essential in books like this one. As for content, once again, we have to read about stuff that's already exposed in the original PS documentation from Adobe, plus the usual clichés, color theory, etc. Fortunately, the amount of redundant information is reasonably acceptable. As for really creative ideas, this book does have some. A few interesting tutorials are perhaps the best of the book, which includes some chapters on natural-looking painting (For those won don't want to go for Corel's Painter series), and the usual topics. (Nothing like checking the Table of Contents link) In my case, I particularly enjoyed the chapter on Montage and Collage, and also on masks and adjustment layers. <br />This title is very acceptable to most beginners, (some might have trouble with some tutorials) and has value even to advanced users, but those will definitely not get all that much for the money.  These days you can read impressive Photoshop tutorials on the web for free (Phong, and Eyeball are just a few examples of such sites) and books have to offer more and more to be worth the price. But still, I liked the Wow 5.5 book, it's far from reaching the depth I wanted, but it's not as basic as I feared it could be. Very full of color and some interesting tutorials.  There are some bad aspects, mostly small details, like absence of a complete list of keyboard shortcuts. They are not compiled, but somewhat spread on the whole book. The showcase of artist projects was a good idea, but it would be better to have the .PSD files available for tutorials. Yes yes, I know, Copyright issues might be the reason here, but it would be a lot more impressive to see them as tutorials than just JPGs with some \\"how-to\\" explanations. Also, I have little interest in seeing several pages full of examples ofthe use of certain Plug-Ins that everybody already knows pretty well. It's mostly just to fill space, unless you really use the covered Plug-Ins in depth (but in that case, you should know the effects pretty well by now. Eye candy, but not really all that useful). This is also a very broad title, if you need detail in some areas (color correction,  Collages,etc) you will need more books. It is true that it adds little from previous versions, but that's hardly a reason for 1 star reviews. If you own a previous PS Wow book, it might not be worth the upgrade, but for the other readers, it's worth taking a look.<br />In general, interesting title, definitely worth checking out. I'd lose the plug-in pages and would add more depth to some areas, but in any case, most beginner-to-intermediate readers will probably learn (or remember) something. If you're buying, you might want to consider waiting for a possible 6.0 version, which might cover the new slicing and vector drawing tools of Photoshop 6.	2000-11-01
US	51078460	R3JM4EO0V4KPSX	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	3	35	45	N	N	Not as good as TCFC, but compiles a few good arguments.	This time Strobel covers some of the major claims against faith in God, and in particular, arguments against Christianity. He starts by talking to skeptic Charles Templeton, and from there proceeds to question several scholars.  My criticism to \\"Case for Christ\\" still applies here; Strobel did not directly interview many sceptics, but simply mentioned some of their claims to Christian scholars, who tried to refute the problems. If the reader keeps in mind that this title clearly isn't intended to be a debate, it's not a problem. Strobel tries to defend his faith as well as he can, and that's what you probably will be reading the book for. Anyone wanting more arguments from the other side will have to read separate titles (Strobel mentions many skeptic works).<br />Strobel interviews Peter Kreeft (problem of evil and suffering), William Lane Craig (Miracles and science), Walter L Bradley (attacking evolution), Norman Geisler (God's violence on innocents), Ravi Zacharias (Problems on Jesus being the only way to God), J.P. Moreland (Eternal torture in Hell), John D. Woodbridge (Church History and violence) and Lynn Anderson (Belief while in doubt). My favorite expert was definitely William Lane Craig, showing once again all his knowledge while dealing with such a hard subject. I expected better from Geisler, who needs no introduction but left me feeling that the subject was not as well defended as it could have been. Woodbridge's interview was good. Strobel did focus the book on the toughest intellectual obstacles to belief, missing a few, but hitting the major ones. Unfortunately, this book will be somewhat unsatisfying for anyone looking for more depth and rigor then dealing with the most difficult questions about God and the divine.  Beginners will value the brevity and plain language of the interviews, but it will limit its power to make hardcore skeptics feel in trouble; I can't blame Strobel on this however, that's the price to pay for having such complexity reduced to accessible answers, and one should keep in mind that each one of the 8 problems covered is complex enough to fill a whole fat book, or a pile of them. Anyone who finds this title interesting should also take a look at \\"Letters From a Skeptic\\" by Gregory Boyd, which covers many similar questions and supplies more satisfying answers in a few aspects. And of if you want to balance it with something from the other side, \\"What is Atheism?\\" by Krueger is a easy way to start. <br />While \\"The Case for Faith\\" compiles many good arguments against questions made by doubters, it doesn't have as much impact as \\"The Case for Christ\\" and will probably take more fire from skeptics, but this is still a good contribution, almost always captivating no matter if you believe or not.  (Reviewer Bill Hays from Tustin did a good job showing some of the problematic issues covered, but didn't mention that the point of this book is precisely defusing some of those claims; Also, Strobel can hardly be considered dishonest for not mentioning he's a pastor, since anyone can easily see all that simply by...Reading the back cover)   You might also like to know that this title is well organized, includes a nice compact Summary of his previous book (TCFC), useful for those who missed it, supplies references to both pro and against books and also a includes a good Index.	2000-10-27
US	51078460	RQ2OB0DS5C935	0805420401	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Also Includes "Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An amusing moral satire on the war between good and evil	This C.S. Lewis novel is a moral satire about an old experienced demon, Screwtape, and his letters trying to help his young nephew Wormwood, a rookie demon, to lead humanity astray. Wormwood's work is focused on a particular young man, whose heart he will try to convince. The idea of a little devil sitting on your shoulder that some people might instantly think of is adequate, but in this case, there is no little angel. We get to see the fiend trying to  lead astray the poor man's soul, but we never directly see the forces against him, only his annoyance at how they seem to be pushing them out of business.<br />The way the demons seem frustrated and the way they behave and relate between themselves is in one word, comic. Screwtape might at times seem extremely dedicated to his nephew, showing some kind of love, but a few letters ahead, when his apprentice is screwing up, he is almost odiously ready to punish him in some sort of demonic betrayal, turning him in as incompetent. Not even a demon can trust another demon. Lewis also had fun making up some sort of hierarchy and all the bureaucracies demons have to face, having to explain their failures, make reports and all sorts of problems you might have at work, in this case, one can clearly say \\"work is Hell\\", complete even with a secret service department (which always seems to frustrate poor Screwtape, since those incompetents never really manage to find out what God is up to).<br />Lewis obviously focuses the whole work on Christianity. Screwtape is clearly referring to the Christian God as \\"the enemy\\", but this book will be interesting to anyone curious about the spiritual warfare that we all have to face everyday, no matter how we see it or what we call it; Atheists and followers of other religions will probably still find it amusing and interesting. Some thoughts of Screwtape might be a bit dry, but most of the book is a delightful voyage into the human soul and its potential dark side of pride, hate, envy, self-importance, resentment and how it all conflicts with some sort of set of moral laws. When I read it, it was interesting how Screwtape tells his nephew to attack flaws in humane nature that I thought I probably had myself, that's part of the brilliance of C.S. in this clever book; he will not only amuse you, but he will make you stop to question your  own behaviour and the way you deal with other people.<br />You will never look at that little devil on your shoulder in the same way again. :-)	2000-10-26
US	51078460	R34S1RD52Y5DUV	0201353717	965950316	The Photoshop 5/5.5 Wow! Book (5th Edition)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	High quality color screenshots, interesting tutorials	I liked Photoshop 5.5 Wow book. For a start, it has high quality color screenshots. I am still surprised to see many Photoshop and other art titles showing up printed in greyscale, good color is essential in books like this one. As for content, once again, we have to read about stuff that's already exposed in the original PS documentation from Adobe, plus the usual clichés, color theory, etc. Fortunately, the amount of redundant information is reasonably acceptable. As for really creative ideas, this book does have some. A few interesting tutorials are perhaps the best of the book, which includes some chapters on natural-looking painting (For those won don't want to go for Corel's Painter series), and the usual topics. (Nothing like checking the Table of Contents link)<br />In my case, I particularly enjoyed the chapter on Montage and Collage, and also on masks and adjustment layers. <br />This title is very acceptable to most beginners, (some might have trouble with some tutorials) and has value even to advanced users, but those will definitely not get all that much for the money. <br />These days you can read impressive Photoshop tutorials on the web for free (Phong, and Eyeball are just a few examples of such sites) and books have to offer more and more to be worth the price. But still, I liked the Wow 5.5 book, it's far from reaching the depth I wanted, but it's not as basic as I feared it could be. Very full of color and some interesting tut<br />There are some bad aspects, mostly small details, like absence of a complete list of keyboard shortcuts. They are not compiled, but somewhat spread on the whole book. The showcase of artist projects was a good idea, but it would be better to have the .PSD files available for tutorials. Yes yes, I know, Copyright issues might be the reason here, but it would be a lot more impressive to see them as tutorials than just JPGs with some \\"how-to\\" explanations. Also, I have little interest in seeing several pages full of examples of the use of certain Plug-Ins that everybody already knows pretty well. It's mostly just to fill space, unless you really use the covered Plug-Ins in depth (but in that case, you should know the effects pretty well by now. Eye candy, but not really all that useful).<br />This is also a very broad title, if you need detail in some areas (color correction,  Collages,etc) you will need more books. It is true that it adds little from previous versions, but that's hardly a reason for 1 star reviews. If you own a previous PS Wow book, it might not be worth the upgrade, but for the other readers, it's worth taking a look.<br />In general, interesting title, definitely worth checking out. I'd lose the plug-in pages and would add more depth to some areas, but in any case, most beginner-to-intermediate readers will probably learn (or remember) something. If you're buying, you might want to consider waiting for a possible 6.0 version, which might cover the new slicing and vector drawing tools of Photoshop 6.	2000-10-15
US	51078460	R38S2CAMVVYEB9	0684818221	984295817	About Time: Einstein's Unfinished Revolution	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Straightforward description of many topics about time.	This is a book about the meaning of time, what it is, when it has started, how it flows and where to. If you ever wondered about the puzzles and paradoxes of time, if you ever wanted to learn more about what Einstein's relativity implies about time itself, this is a book you will not want to miss.<br />Davies covers most of the questions about time; I found interesting how he explains the rather weird relationship between real time and our mental notion of it. The weirdness of bizarre possibilities should be enough to confuse anyone thinking about it for the first time; the way time relates to quantum physics, being sometimes even stranger to understand. <br />Black holes, the warping of space-time, theories about time travel, and the notion of \\"now\\": the division of past, present and future. From the inevitable \\"what existed before the Big Bang\\" to the Hartle Hawking theory, Wormholes, time dilation, etc, much is covered about time. Here are some of the subjects you will be able to read about:<br />1.Tachyons: Davies wonders if Tachyons can be ruled out. The special theory of relativity has been tested to unprecedented accuracy, yet tachyons are a problem. Allowed by the theory, they bring with them all sorts of unpalatable properties. <br />2.Black holes: Could there be really an end to time-a singularity- and the centre of all black holes? Can they form tunnels to other universes, or can we use them like wormholes that thread back into our universe? What happens to matter falling in them?<br />3.Time Travel: Just a fantasy? The investigation of exotic space-times that seem to permit travel into the past will, according to Davies, remains an active field of research, but there are no realistic time-travel scenarios known. But as with Tachyons, the absence of a no-go proof forces science to keep it on the agenda, along with the usual paradoxes, of course. :-)<br />4.Quantum questions: Davies spends some pages describing the wonderland of weird and perplexing temporal teasers in the quantum domain. The way relativity of time fits uneasily into the quantum picture of a world where the collapse associated with measurements occurs abruptly at specific moments. The measurements of time itself are fraught with problems, since all clocks are physical objects afflicted by quantum fuzziness.<br />5.The Origin of Time: You'll also be able to read about the usual topic of how time originated, with all sorts of questions concerning causality, God and eternity.<br />The Age of the Universe: Davies spends some time on the measurements of the expansion rate of the universe, which combined with realistic assumptions about dark matter lead to the absurd conclusion that there are objects in space older than the universe itself. What's going on anyway?<br />These are just some of the main issues. This title is definitely only for those who have questioned time. Davies book is a bit dry sometimes, and can probably bore the reader who is expecting more impact. Some parts like the explanation of the quantum eraser dreamed up by physicist Marlan Scully might be a bit challenging for those with no background in the subject, but in general, the whole book is very readable and clear.  Little math is required, if you know how to square a negative (imaginary number), you probably know enough to keep up, almost no math is presented. And to help, we have Davies sense of humour; while it might annoy some readers, I thought it was helping the book to flow better. It all depends on who's reading. :-) The book has good recommended Bibliography, and a decent Index. Unfortunately, there is no glossary.<br />If I had to summarize the book in a paragraph, surprisingly, I would perhaps just write that we probably don't know much. Despite all the progress of the past decades, Time  is still a mystery, and the revolution that Einstein started is still very incomplete. His word on the subject won't be the last. <br />Unfortunately, this book ends up raising more questions than those it answers. Not Davies fault, it's really the subject itself. :-)<br />Very interesting work for the layman who is curious about time.	2000-10-14
US	51078460	R1ESFHGPVF4GX7	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	4	226	233	N	N	Outlines a leading candidate for the Theory of Everything	Hyperspace is a book strongly focused on higher-dimensional space-time theories such as superstring and Kaluza-Klein-type. The 10 dimensional theory promises to vastly simplify the laws of nature and end our view of a three dimension universe. Kaku manages to compile lots of information in a very readable and fascinating book. You will understand how 10-D theories are basically simple and geometric, despite their mathematical complexity (which actually opened up new areas of mathematics).<br />Higher dimension theories allow us to reduce enormous amounts of information into a concise, elegant fashion that unites the two greatest theories of the 20th century: Quantum Theory and General Relativity.<br />Michio covers the basics of the theory, and its future implications for the future of physics and science, and even writes a few pages on the debate between the reductionism and holism in nature, and the aesthetic relation among physics, mathematics, religion and philosophy.  The book flows very smoothly, never burying the reader under too many technical facts. It introduces higher dimension concepts, its relationship with currently accepted theories and the unification of all forces in ten dimensions. <br />Part 3 of the book starts getting heavier on astrophysics, covers Wormholes and potential gateways to other universes, black holes, parallel universes, time travel and colliding universes. Never Hollywood material, but the typical Stargate fan will probably still love this part. :-) Part 4 ends the book with thoughts on how mankind would can rule the universe if Hyperspace can be mastered, discussing the fate of the universe and its civilizations. Subjects like Entropy death, escape thru hyperspace and universal colonization are covered. Interesting, but lots of early speculation. <br />It is true that superstring theories currently appear impossible to test experimentally and may end up in the trash bin, but I don't think that limits this title's interest or renders it worthless. Michio's book is very well written and organized, making extremely difficult higher physics sound almost easy. Beware however, that this isn't really a good title for a complete beginner, and far from complex enough to leave some other readers satisfied. If you have some knowledge of the basics, you will be left with the impression that the ideas covered are simple, but it will only be an illusion; Very few people in the world fully master all the subjects covered. If having to understand the Riemann Metric Tensor is enough to make you run, you better keep away from this title. No knowledge in math is necessary, but of course, if you know your college math, you'll know what's happening, in some parts instead of having to just believe Kaku's word. :) Just being able to grasp the general beauty of hyperspace science is still well worth the time.<br />In parallel, you will hear some stories about mathematicians, events, and many curious episodes that have influenced modern science; Kaku sometimes diverges a bit from the main subject, and ends up telling stories, some about his childhood, and many about famous scientists (For instance, when dealing with Hilton's cubes, Kaku spends a few paragraphs telling us about Hilton's habits and the fact that he was a bigamist, the scandals, etc). This isn't really a problem, as the stories are usually interesting and directly or indirectly related to the subjects. <br />Kaku did manage to write a great laymen's (well, almost) book about higher dimensional physics and cosmology. Not many do it as well. Everybody remembers Hawkin's &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; and also the now classic \\"The Elegant Universe\\". Hyperspace has its place next to these. <br />The discussion about God grasped my interest, but that didn't last long. I would have dropped the subject, as Michio is definitely not qualified to get into it, and I did not get the book to read a version of Kant's arguments that have been refuted to exhaustion. Note that I'm not questioning Michio's conclusions, just saying that there are far better titles on these matters and that the author should have focused on what's he's good at. <br />But, that little stain is no major problem, In general, very enjoyable title, also complete in notes, references, suggested readings and has a good index.<br />Highly recommended.	2000-10-13
US	51078460	R2SM5ZU9E7A5CD	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	91	113	N	N	A bit one-sided, but  well written &amp; with good contributions	Lee Strobel's &quot;The Case for Christ&quot; is actually a compilation of answers to questions about Christianity, given by a dozen of experts. Many of these are famous theists like Gregory Boyd and William Lane Craig.  Strobel retraces his own journey from atheism to faith, while facing problematic issues like the evidence for Jesus outside the Bible and the resurrection.<br />I liked several aspects in this book, and disliked a few; For the positive aspect, Strobel's book is very readable, almost always fascinating, and captivating without being heavy.  Strobel tries to show that it actually requires a lot more faith for an atheist to maintain atheism than it would to trust in Jesus. All the scholars Strobel interviews try to defuse atheist/skeptical arguments and show that the historical evidence that Jesus was who he claimed to be is overwhelming. <br />Does Strobel manage to convince you? Well, it will depend. I am very open to Christian arguments, but I am also very receptive to be best arguments against Christianity; your belief when you start the book will inevitably have a strong influence leading you to a final position. <br />Like other readers, I quickly realized that Strobel's book had a glaring deficiency: Strobel does not show us any direct interview with critics of Christianity. For instance, Gregory Boyd (One of my favorite Evangelical apologists) spends many pages criticizing the Jesus Seminar, but Strobel never lets us read any of their replies. The atheist Michael Martin is also attacked, most times, the arguments against his work are justified, but still, I always had that annoying feeling of not being shown enough of the opposing side. Strobel's method is quoting some skeptical book to a Christian Apologist, and then asking for his comments. Unfortunately, Strobel never does the opposite, quoting passages from Christians to Non-Christians in order to get their responses.<br />And so, to some readers it might be reasonable to claim that Strobel's book is very unbalanced, failing to show interviews with ANY critic of Evangelical apologetics. People who want the truth will want to hear both sides of the story.<br />Still, I was left with the feeling that it will be a big mistake to dismiss the entire book on this basis, even if you are a skeptic who will be annoyed by the limitation. The reason? Well, for a start, this book comes with a number of endorsements from high-profile Evangelicals, so it somehow might represent their best arguments; It is also very creative, and well written and organized. It summarizes the work of several leading apologists for Evangelical Christianity, in a compact and accessible format. Ultimately, the evidence provided is far from being completely unconvincing. You might need more, but even the hard skeptic with an open mind will definitely have to stop to think when reading some of the arguments in favor of Christianity. <br />I suggest you complement this book with something written by skeptics. A good article is &quot;The Rest of The Story&quot;, written by Jeffrey J. Lowder especially as a response to this book (Should be freely available on the internet, try Infidels.org). I thought Lowder points some of the flaws in Strobel's book, but still recognizes its value and is never bitter against it, a good article against some weaker parts of this book, but it still justly recognizes the quality of Strobel's contribution.<br />Overall: Not as balanced as the title would suggest, but very well written, creative, full of quality Christian apologetics from several authors, in a very effective summarized way. Also with a good Summary, Notes and Index, something I always like in my books. <br />Has its weak points, but I still strongly recommended this work for any theist or atheist seeking truth.	2000-10-06
US	51078460	R35L8NHF52WMQO	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A timeless masterpiece. JRR left us a treasure.	I first read LOTR years ago, when I was a teenager, it amazed me back then, and since those days I have read its pages over 6 or 7 times. It's about time I write a few words here about my all time favorite book.<br />Tolkien died a year before I was born (73), a scholar by profession, he was specialized in Anglo-Saxon (Old English) and its relation to linguistically similar languages (Old Norse, Old German and Gothic). He became a master into the language of poetry and the poetry of language. His interest in mythology (shared by his friend C.S. Lewis) and his faith in Christianity also had a stunning effect in his stories.<br />LOTR is above anything, a book about the struggle between good and evil, somewhere in our own world, but in an imaginary time. It all feels familiar, but &quot;glorified by the enchantment of distance in time&quot;.<br /> In Middle Earth (North-western Europe was probably what Tolkien had in mind) Bilbo, a Hobbit (a branch of the human race) finds himself in a quest to destroy the One Ring, crafted by the elven-smiths and Sauron, the Dark Lord, but lost. Sauron searches far and wide for the ring that would complete his dominion of evil, while the initially naïve Bilbo and his friends (The so called Fellowship of the Ring) journey Middle-Earth, deep into the shadow of Sauron, to destroy the Ring by casting it in the Cracks of Doom.<br />LOTR is amazing by many reasons. The languages presented are most certainly real languages, especially the Elven languages. It is unbelievable how they are not arbitrary gibberish but really possible tongues with established roots, sound laws and inflexions. Tolkien used all his knowledge and imaginative powers deriving them, in a realistic manner.<br />LOTR is narrated by Tolkien, based on ancient manuscripts written by the main characters Frodo and Bilbo, or at least, many people think that Tolkien sought to maintain that he was only the editor and translator. This would be nothing special, as many authors tried to make their fantasies sound as true stories from some ancient times, but very few have done it so successfully as Tolkien. His love for language and his imagination and scholarship produced a work that is hard to translate, at least, without losing much of its impact. For instance, an adequate translation of Rohirric would have to be replaced with some ancient language whose relation to the language of the translation was the same as that of Anglo-Saxon to modern English. Tolkien actually used an approximation of Anglo-Saxon so we it would remain intelligible to modern readers like us. This was not accidental, but carefully devised. New land, languages, races, history, cultures, a whole new world; That is what you will find in this most remarkable work of literature.<br />Tolkien has left us a gorgeous, eloquent and heroic romance, and after you read it you will understand why this has been named the &quot;Book of the Century&quot; many times.  Some readers gave it 4 stars because it's &quot;so long&quot;. That's the only problem I can point to LOTR, its length, but for the opposite reason. I feel it should be a lot longer. :) It is true that the first 100 pages are somewhat slow for some readers, but they are still rich and interesting.<br />The struggle of good and evil, the depth of all the characters, friendship, love, temptation, war, hate and the inner moral conflicts the characters face, all is presented marvellously thanks to Tolkien's keen abilities for both prosaic and poetic expression, based on his deep love for ancient languages, myth and nature.<br />This is the Bible of fantasy literature, but you will probably still like it even if you're not used to its kind. No other writer of fantasy titles has ever come close. Not even the best like Tad Williams, Robert Jordan or others.  Never read it? What are you waiting for? Get it. Get the hardcover illustrated version by Alan Lee. I own a few versions and will probably end up buying more. The best LOTR hardcovers are expensive, but it's fully worth it.  The Lord of The Rings is simply a timeless masterpiece!<br />After 6 or 7 reads, I still return to LOTR often, and am always fascinated by it. Every time I read it I find something new and very, very few books have come close to give me as much joy. The complexity of Tolkien's world and all its elements, the detail and richness of the descriptions, this world still makes me sit there thinking a numb &quot;Wow&quot; when I close it and it's over...R hardcovers are expensive, but it's fully worth it.  The Lord of The Rings is simply a timeless masterpiece!<br />After 6 or 7 reads, I still return to LOTR often, and am always fascinated by it. Every time I read it I find something new and very, very few books have come close to give me as much joy. The complexity of Tolkien's world and all its elements, the detail and richness of the descriptions, this world still makes me sit there thinking a numb &quot;Wow&quot; when I close it and it's over...	2000-10-05
US	51078460	RSDT7TDUT37WL	0133499456	734472032	Computer Networks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Andrew's way of writing makes tedious subjects interesting.	I have used this book for the past years for my computer engineering degree, and it's my favorite Data Communications book. Tanenbaum's way of writing is very inspired, managing to leave the subject interesting enough even for someone who isn't really forced to read about it. I once found this book at a friend's place; he was reading it in bed. Now that's odd for someone who isn't really forced to do it. My second favorite title is Fred Halsall's \\"Data Communications, computer Networks and Open Systems\\", which in many ways, is superior to Tanenbaums, but in general, I prefer Tanenbaum's.  Fred gives us a lot more detail sometimes, but lacks that smoothness and seldom lets us know his opinion. He's a lot more concerned about giving you the facts. (Which he's good at) Tanenbaum shares his opinion, gives us most of the facts, and even dares to include some good humour sometimes.<br />I highly recommend this title. Be sure to check Fred Halsall's, as you might sometimes feel you need more detail than Tanenbaum gives you. The perfect choice is perhaps owning both titles. Start with Tanenbaum for a broader and more interesting approach to the subjects, and then check Fred's fat book for all the juicy details you might be missing. One book won't replace the other, they are both very good. I have learned more from Fred, but he has also bored me to death sometimes, while Tanenbaum has always managed to keep it interesting. :)	2000-09-21
US	51078460	RMEV9QEXR3LXK	020142293X	925426662	Data Communications, Computer Networks, and Open Systems (4th Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A bit dry sometimes, but extremely complete	I have been using Fred Halsall's book in my computer engineering degree and it has been very useful. This is a dense, fat book that will provide lots of information.  It covers the basics, from the essential theory about digital transmission, protocol basics and implementation methods, legacy and wireless LANs, HS LANs, transparent and source routing bridges, packet switching and frame relay networks/protocols, internetworking architectures, protocols and routing algorithms, multiservice broadband networks, TCP/IP and OSI application protocols, data encryption and network security, network management structures like SNMP and CMIP and other stuff. I can complain about some of the excessive use of acronyms that leave some areas of the book much harder to read. I'm talking about hundreds of acronyms here.<br />Also, Fred's writing is sometimes a bit too dry, sometimes forgetting to give the reader  a general idea about the subject, instead of just jumping into all the details. This is something that is better done in other books, especially Andrew Tanenbaum's \\"Computer Networks\\". Tanenbaum also shares his sense of humour, which, in a dense volume about telecommunications, ends up refreshing the user. Also, Tanenbaum's dares to share his opinion sometimes, something Halsall seldom does, giving us only the facts and nothing more. But if it's the facts you want, he's good at it.<br />I found most of the book clear; the section about Huffman data compression for instance, was excellent. I remember having some trouble with the Viterbi EC algorithm, which isn't very well explained. The book also lacks information about some more modern technologies like GSM.<br />In general, this is a very competent title, and a great resource to the student or the computer professional. Be sure to check Andrew S. Tanenbaum's \\"Computer Networks\\", since you might prefer it to this title, or, the perfect choice, get both. (I have them both and some subjects are a lot better in one book, and others are a lot better in the other title).thers are a lot better in the other title).	2000-09-21
US	51078460	R1ZVCLM6UUBYU9	0670882178	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	3	121	136	N	N	Lacking depth sometimes, but still very interesting.	Ray Kurzweil's \\"The Age of Spiritual Machines' is an intelligent look at what the future might be holding for us all. Like other similar titles -  Visions by Michio Kaku comes to mind - Kurzweil tries to predict where  science will take us.  Unlike `Visions' however, this book is considerably  more focused on computer technology and artificial intelligence, and I  would only recommend it if you're not looking for a much broader answer to  the question of where we are headed. Kurzweil never intended to cover other  matters, and reading the Prologue will be enough to understand that most of  the book will explore the rising of machine intelligence to a level that  will surpass the capabilities of the human brain. <br />Kurzweil starts by  describing the exponential growth of computer power, Moore's Law, and  transistor-based computing. The present and the future are described until  quantum effects start becoming a problem and a completely new kind of  technology becomes necessary (some alternatives are mentioned, Quantum  computation is of course, mentioned). The book proceeds to more  metaphysical subjects, and questions if we can create another intelligence  form more intelligent than ourselves. Can the created exceed the  creator?<br />It will then proceed to cover consciousness and feelings;  Kurzweil gets philosophical in what in my opinion is one of the book's  weakest chapters The methods available to solve a wide range of intelligent  problems (when combined with heavy doses of computation) will follow, in a  chapter that covers subjects from recursive formulas to neural nets, and of  course, enough space is dedicated to Alan Turing, the father of all modern  computers.<br />Part 2 starts with my favourite chapter of this title;  Kurzweil discusses how evolution has found a way around the computational  limitations of normal neural circuitry.  And from nature's lessons we move  to ideas about molecular computing harnessing the DNA molecule itself as a  practical computing device, now a possibility under investigation. I wish I  had this book last year when I was doing some research on general quantum  computing for college, Kurzweil fully managed to transmit the impact that  future developments in these areas might cause, and the problems that will  be caused by ultra-fast parallel computation (especially with  cryptography). The port of slow mammalian carbon-based neurons to speedier  electronic and photonic equivalents is covered with simplicity, but  convincingly.<br />Next comes the problem of the body. A disembodied mind will  quickly get depressed, no matter how powerful. So what kind of bodies  should our machines have, or later on,  what kind of bodies will they  provide for themselves?<br />Part 2 ends with a few thoughts on the array of  tasks that are now performed by computers, lacking sense of humour, talent  for small talk and other endearing qualities, but still vital for tasks  that previously required human intelligence: How much do we depend on  modern technology? If all the computers stopped functioning, would chaos  rise? Is our world too based on technology and vulnerable to global  disasters?<br />After 2009, the book truly starts facing the future. You will  be shown how extremely cheap and powerful (compared to today's standards)  computers will be imbedded in clothing and jewellery, among other items,  surrounding us completely. Virtual personalities start emerging, and  Kurzweil dares to predict real time translating telephones and even human  musicians jamming routinely with cybernetic musicians.  Also interesting, I  thought,  is the possibility of some sort of neo-Luddite movement growing  around this time.<br />Next stage is 2019. By this time, Kurzweil believes  that a $1k computing device will be approximately equal to the  computational ability of the human brain. Computers should be almost  invisible, and will be everywhere. 3D virtual reality will reach good  quality levels, and VR displays are embedded in glasses and contacts  lenses, providing a new interface (and the main interface) for  communication with other persons (via the future version of the Web).  Interaction with computers is made through gestures and 2-way natural  language. A few thoughts on relationships with automated personalities end  the chapter.<br />By 2029, Kurzweil's predictions turn to direct neural  pathways that somehow have perfected some soft of high-bandwidth connection  to the human brain. Ultra fast learning à-la-Neo from Matrix in less than  28 years? Kurzweil suspects so.  Neural implants become widely available to  enhance visual and auditory perception and interpretation, as well as  memory and reasoning. People with physical problems and strongly helped by  implants. Computers have \\"read\\" all available human literature and the  discussion about legal rights of computers and what constitutes being  human. Machines claim to be conscious.<br />Around 2099, human thinking starts  merging with the world of machine intelligence. There is no clear  distinction between humans and computers. Most of the intelligences are not  tied to a specific processing unit, but widely spread. This chapter's most  interesting aspect is perhaps the discussion about software based humans,  when compared to those still using carbon-based neurons. The use of neural  implant technology provides enormous augmentation of human perceptual and  cognitive abilities, creating some sort of division between first class and  second-class humans. Kurzweil implies that those who do not utilize such  \\"enhancements\\" will be unable to meaningfully participate in dialogues with  those who do.  Being alive no longer means what it used to mean. Life  expectancy is no longer a viable term in relation to intelligent,  machine-based intelligent beings. <br />The books ends with a few thoughts on  the fate of the whole universe, a part that is probably the weakest of the  whole book, extremely pale when compared to Michio Kaku's \\"Visions\\" look.  Kurzweil might do a good job describing a universe in which artificial  intelligence and nanotechnology combine to bring longevity, but failed  partially when discussing that longevity and the coming connections of  computers with immortality, a subject that deserved a lot more attention  and space in this book. Left me wanting more.<br />You will find this book  fascinating if you're particularly interested in what the future holds when  it comes to computers. Kurzweil knows his science well and adding a bit of  common sense and humour, is enough to result in a very enjoyable title. If  the predictions turn to follow the expected timeline, well, frankly I don't  care much, and I don't think it's very relevant to discuss it; Most of it  will happen precisely as the author puts it, but it might take more or less  time. This book is not complex, and has many references and notes; so even  people with a poor background in computer science will be able to follow  the author's ideas. Of course knowing what's behind it will make your  experience a lot richer. You also get a decent glossary, very valuable if  you're new to the subject.<br />Overall, a good book, but lacking depth in  some areas (especially machine based existence and immortality). Sometimes  too over simplified. Still, check it out and see where we're heading.  Combine it with Neuromancer, Visions and a few more technical titles and  you will wish you could live 300 years...then again, maybe not.  ;-)	2000-09-08
US	51078460	R2RQ5W6V2HPY49	1575662434	267521208	Green Tea	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Complete, educational and even suprisingly enjoyable	I have always preferred coffee to tea and have never been much of a fan of  it, especially not to the point of buying books about it. The interested  was spiced up by my reading of books about antioxidants, which often  mention green tea as a powerful antioxidant. Lester Packer's \\"Antioxidant  Miracle\\" in particular fully pushed green tea as an excellent substance to  combine with other antioxidant elements, but many other studies have now  proven its benefits too.<br />After trying it I thought it was very pleasant  as an alternative to coffee in cold winter days.  For some reason, I was  still curious about it and took a look at the books. Few reviews were  available, and it was hard to pick one, but I bought Nadine Taylor's \\"Green  Tea\\". 0 reviews available, little info. Risky buy. :-)<br />I wasn't impressed  when I saw it. This is a little book, 179 pages of cheap paper, and no  photos, just text. Much to my surprise, it turned out to be quite a  surprisingly competent book, Tea as an interesting subject? Now that I  didn't expect.<br />This book will dedicate most of its pages to establishing  the position of Green Tea as a healthy drink, mentioning all the aspects of  how it can help your body (and mind, some say). It describes its history  and some curious events, how to identify different kinds of green tea,  where to buy it (Useful mostly to US readers). It will go as far as  describing in detail the Japanese and Chinese tea ceremonies and giving you  ideas for recipes. You also get a decent Glossary.<br />The Japanese have been  drinking green tea for centuries and their cancer rate is among the lowest  in the world, today, scientists are showing that moderate amounts of green  tea can be enough to make a difference. This author in particular backs up  her claims mentioning many studies and links to the proper documents in the  10-page Bibliography. I found most of it very consistent with my previous  reading about Green Tea as a powerful agent against free radical damage.  <br />So basically, the simple but pleasant cover and the cheap paper hide a  very interesting title. If you like Green Tea, are confused about anything  about it (like what kinds to get and what is the difference between brands)  or want a quick look at its antioxidant properties (for a more technical  approach you will have to look elsewhere) then this guide will probably  give you everything you need to know about it, and probably more.<br />I had  enough and I don't think I'll ever want to know more about tea, but I'll  never say that reading about it can't be enjoyable. :-)<br />Compact and  complete title. Recommended.	2000-09-08
US	51078460	R2K4CC4UYG1A6B	0671739891	43371965	The Silva Mind Control Method	Books	3	343	393	N	N	Interesting, but very weak in some aspects.	This is the kind of book I would probably never buy, but my mother did for  some reason and I found myself reading it. <br />This book describes José  Silva's method of mental development and stress control.  Silva, a TV  repairman started studying the electrical activity of the human body under  certain conditions (meditation, hypnosis). Over several years, Silva  noticed how the stages of lower electrical activity would mean a higher  capacity for storage and attention and figured out that if he managed to  control his awareness and remain conscious, but free of such electrical  noise, following few steps would allow the development of certain  `extraordinary' skills. These, he claims, can change your reality,  depending on how you use your mind; including improving your health,  reducing stress, improving your memory, and allowing you some abilities  like perception and a distance and perception through time. <br />Silva's  teachings are based on one single aspect: The way you think about your  reality, the way your mind is lead eventually influences your material  world, especially your own body. As Emile Coué said many years ago, \\"Every  day, in every way, I'm getting better and better\\", and Silva's followers  agree. If you keep that spirit and follow Silva's procedures, you will  notice improvements in about everything in your life.<br />To keep it short,  that is what the book claims, or at least, that's what I got out of it. I  was pleased with it in several ways, but a few problems are present...   1)  Silva's book is very poorly written, I found the book to be miserably  organized, from the first page to the non-existing glossary, giving it a  very amateurish look, far from the scientific flavour that Silva would  probably sometimes want us to notice.<br />2) Silva's claims are  extraordinary. From amazing memory skills to eradication of nasty physical  illnesses, this book makes it sound as if developing, experiencing and  controlling these phenomena issomething as easy as learning how to drive  or playing a musical instrument. I found this approach extremely negative,  as it reduces some of my belief in the whole book and leaves the reader  wondering if there's anything really going on or if it is just a festival  of wishful thinking and self-delusion.  People who enthusiastically  subscribe to New Age beliefs will be delighted, but sceptics will promptly  use it to throw Silva's book in the pile of pseudoscience junk. It is a  pity that those claims are so excessive and \\"easy\\".  Silva is right,  something is definitely going on, and leading-edge science is now becoming  aware of radical new theories on the horizon about consciousness and  matter; it can no longer be denied, but making it sound as something you  can understand and control so easily is as dangerous as refusing it  completely.<br />3) And for all those extraordinary claims, where is the  extraordinary evidence? This book has a few case \\"studies\\" and reports, but  hardly anything you can check for yourself. Silva offers very few  connections to real documents, does not point to any studies most of the  time and just expects you to accept the claims on some sort of faith. You  get no notes and the References section is pathetically small. Major  claims, little evidence. Even when the book was first release this would be  a major problem, and now it is embarrassingly bad, when compared to similar  titles.<br />4) The book is plagued by self-promotion. Not to Silva himself,  but to the course. From page one to the end, you will constantly be  reminded about the course, what students do there, you even have a few  pages with the detailed schedule for the course, including coffee breaks. I  don't mind having the address mentioned and a few contacts, but after a  while, it gets a bit too much. I know about the course already, get on with  the book. <br />Now the good parts: Well, I didn't hate it. I actually enjoyed  reading this book. The paragraphs explaining you how to meditate and  ridiculously simple, in fact, you get about one page telling you how to do  it. Hardly effective, but it might be perfect for some people wanting to  start it as quickly as possibly and later dwell deepen into it with the  help of other titles.<br />I believe in the main argument of this book, your  will somehow shape your physical reality, but not to such extent. The  effects are still not really understood, very subtle and very hard to  control at all. Still, even with all the exaggeration, the book will  probably help you to get rid of your stress and it is surprisingly fun, you  will very probably find yourself trying to do the meditation exercises, and  will very likely feel better doing it.<br />If you require some proof to  believe like I do, stay away from this book, or complement it with a  scientifically solid work, especially material that covers mind-matter  interaction effect studies involving living systems. I recommend \\"The  Conscious Universe\\" from Dean Radin\\" for a start. If you don't need proof,  well, believing in yourself is the main ingredient, so it will probably  work for you.  Also, if you want to learn more about meditation, you better  look somewhere else, as Silva will give you NO details at all about it  other than a quick how-to. \\"Full Catastrophe Living\\" by Jon Kabat-Zinn is a  great book on this subject, which will definitely help. Religion is not  directly mentioned and I don't think it will damage your interest in the  book, no matter if you believe or not. Some religions will perhaps feel  that the amount of control and power Silva says you can have is pretty  close to heresy, and the book is closer to Buddhism, Hinduism and Taoism,  but it is not oriented to any specific faith. <br />Overall, an interesting  book, based on some good arguments, but now very dated (1977), completely  fails to show solid scientific evidence (many more studies and  meta-analysis are now available) and lacking organization.  <br />Still fun if  you don't take it too seriously and are prepared to complement it with  other titles, but lacking in many areas if you expect it to be complete and  updated. Give it a try.	2000-09-04
US	51078460	R2ETQ61Y4PDWRL	0062515020	590515841	The Conscious Universe: The Scientific Truth of Psychic Phenomena	Books	5	325	348	N	N	Suprisingly good work that will leave you wondering	Radin's book was a surprise to me.  I have been often interested in the  paranormal, but have always felt it completely lacked any scientific truth,  and was worth little more than entertainment. Eventually, I became very  sceptical to any issues that could not be easily accepted by science. This  book has made me think twice by finally providing some meta-analysis that  convinced me to at least stop to wonder.<br />To keep it short, Radin  basically claims that the paranormal is real and has proof of it. He starts  by defining the concept of Psi, and dedicates many pages trying to explain  you the mathematical and statistical background you will need to understand  the studies and the meta-analysis of the results. Radin then proceeds to  expose all the evidence that has been gathered for the past years, for  Telepathy, Perception at a distance and through time, Mind-Matter  interaction, Mental interaction with living organisms and field  consciousness. His next theme dedicates 50 pages to explain the why  scepticism has been limiting the knowledge of Psi phenomena, and even  approaches some metaphysics.<br />The book is very well organized, there is  some redundancy, but no more than normal and it is often necessary.  Subjects are well separated and the index is very good.  What impressed me  most was perhaps the way Radin provides the reader with external sources  that back up his claims. The text is full of marks to references. You have  about 40 pages with notes and references, which you will be able to check  for yourself. If Radin claims something you might want to confirm, it most  likely tells you where to go find the original document. This aspect alone  would be enough to separate this work from many of the pseudocience junk on  the market.<br />You will be left under the impression that the experiences  known as \\"psychic phenomena\\" are real. Radin never refuses the possibility  that these phenomena might be fully understood by science in the future,  losing its \\"paranormal\\" label, but dedicates his energy in trying to prove  that they are no longer based solely upon faith or absorbing anecdotes, or  even in few experiments - It shows that these phenomena exist because they  have been evaluated in massive amounts of scientific evidence.<br />Carl Sagan  said extraordinary claims demand extraordinary evidence, and Radin does  provide most of the evidence. As younger scientists become aware of these  matters and innovative corporations pour resources into psi investigation,  there is no doubt that the scientific community is getting very, very  curious about something that is going on but cannot be explained.<br />Radin  is very persuasive, many people might not be impressed with his writing on  sociology and metaphysics, but his technical expertise on the rest of the  book is obvious.<br />This is a very dense book to review in a short space, so  I'll end up by warning those who are expecting a lot of hocus-pocus, ghost  stories and x-files scripts. This book has almost nothing of that, Radin  only gives a few short \\"reports\\" as the intro, but he obviously gives them  no value at all and instantly proceeds to crunching the numbers. The  studies are sometimes a bit dry for those who are expecting Uri Geller  moments (Uri isn't even mentioned) and it might appear as if you're reading  something your college forced you to, but once you get interested, it will  be a delicious read. Even if you feel you might be challenged by the  studies, but you don't need to be a statistician to understand it, Radin  will give you the basics. So be warned, it gets zero on the Ghostbusters  scale. (In fact, in many parts I could almost see Radin shrugging and  saying \\"well uh, we have no idea on why this happens, but we are completely  sure that it does happen for no known reason\\". Lacking some impact for  Hollywood perhaps, but still engaging. :-) <br />Radin has convinced me that  psi phenomena have indeed considerable scientific evidence behind, but that  unlike what many pseudo-science fans think, those effects are extremely  subtle and hard to control for any good use, at least, at present time.  They cannot, however, be ignored as non-existing, or the product of  ignorant minds. Nobel Laureate in Physics Brian Josephson for instance said  \\"Radin shows the evidence in favour of paranormal existence is  overwhelming\\". <br />I highly recommend it. A powerful case for the reality of  parapsychological phenomena. Very professional work in a subject that has  been plagued by many pseudoscience titles that do nothing but add more  noise. What it sometimes likes in fun, it provides in painstaking  research.<br />If you are a sceptic, read it, no matter if you are religious  or not, with a scientific background or not. If you buy anything you hear  as true, read it too. Most of all, it will challenge you to weigh the facts  and think for yourself.  But one view is never enough. Be sure to read  several of the best sceptical works (many of which Radin mentions in the  text and References) and any other you find interesting (Demon Haunted  World by Carl Sagan is a good title to start with) and you will understand  everything better.  Well worth the time. I look forward to Radin's next  work.	2000-08-31
US	51078460	RLGMF71R5H3P5	0440508568	797786596	What Einstein Didn't Know: Scientific Answers to Everyday Questions	Books	4	34	34	N	N	It is fun, but only if you're not in the business.	I bought this book because I thought it would be the perfect reading for a  week during some beach vacations. It was a perfect read for the occasion  since you can read separate sections that do not have much connection  between them. Grab it, read a bit, put it away, do the same later.  This is  no science book, and reading it will be very, very easy, it will require  little of your attention, almost no technical background and well, even  little time.  Chemists and Physicists, and even engineering students might  feel shocked seeing how Wolke simplifies some subjects that are complex  enough to have whole books written about it, but you have to remember that  this is not at all a technical book. You will learn, but you won't learn  much. You will have the illusion of knowledge about heavy stuff like  electromagnetism, nuclear fusion, thermodynamics and even the big bang  theory and some cosmology.<br />But don't get me wrong, it you keep that in  mind, Wolke has managed to write a very entertaining title that will keep  you interested until the end. I have to admit I would drop some of the  subjects and would pick other questions. I was a bit annoyed at how many  pages Wolke uses talking about fat. A déjà vu feeling often happens. Wolke  repeats himself a tad too much for my taste, but it is true that with some  subjects it would be hard not to repeat the same facts. Still, Wolk should  assume the reader isn't all that dumb and got the basics right the first  time, why repeat what was already written. Wolke's sense of humour requires  some getting used to. I was annoyed in the first few pages, but eventually  grew to like it and it makes the book a lot more fun.<br />Chemistry and  Physics students might get bored at some of the questions Wolke answers,  but if you're not into the business and don't know too much about it, you  will find it interesting, and sometimes fascinating. In many occasions I  found myself wanting more technical details, and that can frustrated many  readers.<br />Not perfect, the title is a bit of a bad idea and it's only all  that interesting if you don't already have a scientific background on the  subjects (mostly chemistry and some physics) but otherwise, it provides  entertainment, it's perfect to lighten up from more heavier science  readings and you'll always learn more than reading Calvin &amp; Hobbes.    :-) Go for it, I recommend it.	2000-08-31
US	51078460	RPLB3YNDIC73K	0062508113	135418128	The World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom Traditions	Books	4	161	191	N	N	Good  to know about the good side and wisdom of religions.	Being at a stage of agnosticism, I found myself curious and needing to  know more about all the religions, and decided to try Houston Smith's \\"The  World's Religions\\".  Smith includes the world's predominant faiths:  Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Islam, Judaism, Christianity and  the native traditions several continents. If this is your first contact  with many of these religions, you will for sure feel lost. Even in the  engaging way Smith writes, there is just too much information that is left  out, and I often found myself wondering about certain subjects that were  mentioned but not explained.  My main problem with this book was perhaps  the lack of more historical facts, a clear exposure of the main differences  between religions, and a better index, which is essential not only for  reference but also for people who are having their first contact with  religion (For instance, Torah, now what's that anyway? Hmm, no, it's not in  the index...hmm).<br />Not even Smith's summaries at the end of each chapter  will leave you with the feeling you finally understand it all, and I  wouldn't mind having some graphics clarifying things out a bit better  instead of having to take notes all the time - A broader view on the  subject. I am perhaps spoiled with my engineering degree in college where  complex matters are usually explained with the help of some diagrams, so  some people might not miss this aspect.<br />But don't get me wrong. This book  does deliver most of what it promises, and attempts to cover extremely  complex matters of heart that are simply impossible to fully present in a  book, much of it you will have to feel, not read.  It is poor on history,  but it's not supposed to have much more on that field (I would prefer a bit  more), and also, what might annoy some people is that it is not a balanced  account of its subject. You will only get to know about values, attention  will be given only to the good parts. If you want a balanced account onreligions, including fanaticism, persecution, and those sides that are more  of a curse than a blessing, but still are part of it, you will have to find  another book. If you want to learn about the main values, (many of which  they all share) it's here, but keep in mind that you are not seeing the  dark side of the moon. <br />My objective was precisely learning about the  values of each religion, and how they compare to each other. (This book is  better with the first problem than with the second). Smith apparently did  not want to go too deep into the comparative religions waters, as  comparisons probably always end up comparing their worth and are sometimes  odious. The price for not showing one religion as superior to others is  that you will not get comparisons, or you will get very little of  it.<br />Finally, the differences are sometimes minimal, but sometimes huge.  Smith explains most of it clearly, and if you are ready to look at those  religions through other's eyes you will understand it better. I found  interesting the thoughts on how religions are all basically alike<br />This  book was somewhat of a failure to me, but I guess that it is ultimately  impossible to find a book on this issue that will please me or give me the  fully clear knowledge I would like, as it is very hard to understand  religions, and even more when they are not our own (no matter if you are  theist, atheist or agnostic). <br />Lacking more history,  and a clearer  explanation of the institutional dimensions of those religions, along with  some other subjects, it is still a great book and most of all a good intro  to the wisdom those religions share. You will probably find yourself  wanting more information, but Houston Smith's work is a good place to  start. <br />Overall, you might end up still a bit confused, but you can still  benefit from the wisdom Smith managed to gather in those few pages. I  recommend it, it's worth your money.	2000-08-30
US	51078460	RL6OJ1392GSB4	1564762440	988555255	Letters From a Skeptic: A Son Wrestles with His Father's Questions about Christianity	Books	5	91	106	N	N	Excellent. Many hard questions finally explained.	I loved this book and read the 190 pages in few days. I am struggling with my own doubts about religion. My belief in God is strong, but any details are blurry (that includes the choice of religion).  Edward Boyd asked  several questions which have been leaving me confused about Christianity, I  found myself suprised many times at how he was just asking what I often  wondered about. Several times I was thinking &quot;ok, that explains it,  but what about XYZ, I want you see explain that one, ah!&quot; and later  Edward did ask something like it and his father managed to come up with a  pretty solid answer.  The topics include: Why has Christianity done so much  harm? Why is the world full of suffering? Why does God create  famine,earthquakes? Couldn't it all be by chance? Why does an all-powerful  God need prayers? Why trust the Gospel as true? What about the  contradictions? How could a man rise from the dead? Why are there so many  different interpretations of the Bible? What about other holy books of  other religions? Do all non-Christians go to hell? Why would God torture  people in an eternal hell? <br />Plus many other. Sometimes you'll get answers  that are based on faith, sometimes you get clear facts, but I have to admit  I have never read any explanations that left me thinking it was making  sense. <br />If you already believe, this book might help you to see things a  bit more clearly. If you are a skeptic (like me), it will leave you less  confused. <br />Ultimately, I do not believe I will find any final answer from  books. It will have to be a deep personal experience, but I am gathering as  much info as I can. I dare quoting the Bible: &quot;Test everything, hold  on to the good&quot; (1 Thess 5:21). <br />This book was great clearing up a  few problematic issues like the concept of Hell. Of course I still don't  understand many things, and still have a lot to learn, but if you are a  skeptic, buy it now.<br />A previous reviewer wrote that Boyd claims to know  the truth, but resorts to compromise when his beliefs are on the line.  Maybe he does sometimes, but even Boyd himself near the end admits that you  cannot be 100% of anything. He admits things might be different, but gives  you enough facts to make you start looking at other options as if they are  as hard to believe in as the whole &quot;christian stuff&quot;.<br />I also  recommend another book which also clears out many issues and some good  arguments from atheists: &quot;The Case for Christ&quot; by Lee Strobel.   &quot;The Journey&quot; Bible is also easy to read and addequate for people  who don't believe yet. I've been trying to explore it, it's a lot easier  than most Bibles. <br />The book ends a bit quickly, the last 2 months were  not written, it abruptly ends with Gregory's father saying he is ready to  believe. I am curious about how he feels now, and it would be interesting  to read more correspondence between the two. <br />In general, a great book,  with many strong arguments. Doubts will always be present, but this was one  of the most interesting books about Christianity I have read so far. <br />No  matter what you believe in (or don't believe in), buy it. I am sure you  will find some good thoughts in it, even if you don't end up converted or  fully convinced.	2000-07-15
US	51078460	R1WTDE76KCU14Z	1890422258	591775454	Visual Basic Programmer's Guide to Serial Communications	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very useful book	I bought this book while trying to build a project which was basically a modem terminal like those we used to access BBS in those old days before the internet. I knew a lot about modem terminals, I was comfortable with  modems, but VB 6 was new to me, so, it just wasn't easy. Richard's book  helped a lot, I did end up building a fairly decent terminal.  It might be  true that the book is a bit oriented to modems, but you will also find  information that will be useful in several other projects.<br />It was a pity  that the author did not include a better version of the terminal. He does,  however, include several components which you can use, modem LED lights, a  init string selector etc. Would have been nice to see it all working  together, but we can learn while trying to do it ourselves.<br />Also, I was  very impressed with Richard's help. Here's an author that prints his email  in the book, and actually replies to it very quickly. Richard was very  helpful clearing some of my questions and even sent me some code.  Excellent.<br />Buy it if you need help with modems and VB 6, and strongly  think about buying it if you don't use modems but need any serial port  action with VB.	2000-07-14
US	51078460	RK5KD5TEBPHP0	0553347845	406448244	What Do You Care What Other People Think? Further Adventures of a Curious Character	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Fully worth it	After wanting to read RF for a long time, I finally got a book. This was the first Feynman book I read. It has two parts, the first is mostly about Feynman's first wife Arlene and his friends when he was a young man. The  second tells us how Feynman investigated the Challenger explosion. The book  is not technical, the second part is a bit more detailed and might tell you  more about rocket engines that you would like to know, but the whole book  is very interesting. I particulary enjoyed the first part, how Feynman  decided to still marry Arlene not matter what everyone else was telling  him, and how special their relationship was.  Feynman is a brillian man,  yet funny and modest, he even shares some of his embarassing moments.  I  became a fan and am now going for more Feynman books. A first part for your  heart, and a second part for your brain.  Some were just random thoughts,  with no order at all, and it was a bit confusing sometimes for someone who  didn't know Feynman's life, but still, this was a delicious book and I  strongly recommend it to anyone who is interested in reading about the  people who make brilliant science... and still have a sense of humor. :)	2000-05-16
US	51078460	R2YTIJQFSRAZN6	031092023X	759419387	The Journey: The Study Bible for Spiritual Seekers (New International Version)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Very good if it is your first look at the BIble	This is a excellent Bible. It is only the second Bible I read, but I was pleased. I am a skeptic wanting to learn more about the Christian look at God. I have belief in God and am not atheist, but am very unsure about any  details.<br />This Bible has a clear language, and contans a lot of notes. You  often feel you have a friend who knows more trying to explain things to  you, they guess some of our questions.<br />Some notes tell modern stories,  some give you advice, some others simply analyse things that are not as  obvious as they seem.<br />The intro made me feel very comfortable and it  states that you won't be pushed into anything, just read it and then see  how you feel about it all. <br />If you are not a believer yet, this is the  Bible for you. <br />I only wish I ordered the hardcover instead of the flimsy  paperback. The ink also smells terribly, but when it comes to content, it  is very well done.	2000-05-02
US	51078460	RSM98996WFBRK	0201183994	709150152	A Book on C: Programming in C (4th Edition)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent	If your're a beginner some parts might be too complex for you, but with time, you'll get there.<br />I've been learning C and bought several books,  Kernighan's is a classic, but it's too condensed, lacks some detailed  explanations and is now a bit dated maybe. Still a good referece, but if I  could have only one C book, I'd keep this one. I also read some of the  &quot;fast&quot; books like Teach Yourself C in 24h and Teach yourself C in  21 days, and a few others.  A book on C is still my favorite. The  introduction to Javascript and C++ is a nice extra too.	2000-01-16
US	51078460	RDZ798ERB6HPV	0471297682	727347930	The Antioxidant Miracle: Your Complete Plan for Total Health and Healing	Books	4	66	67	N	N	Very interesting if it's your first look at antioxidants	I liked Packer's book. He managed to leave the subject interesting enough for people who are not experienced with antioxidants. I honestly had little clue about it and the book explains things quite well.<br />Of course only an  expert can point any serious mistakes in this book and maybe other flaws,  but the public in general will like it. <br />After reading the book, I  thought it was amazing how people were not taking those antioxidant  cocktails, it makes no sense, why not?<br />Of course, after visiting a few  health shops (locally and on the internet) my doubts were cleared.  THE  PRICE. Buying all supplements separately is outrageously expensive (At  least for 24 year old unemployed student like me). Buying the whole pack  from Lester will be cheaper, but we're still talking about some  considerable $. <br />Of course, the first move is to change your diet and  start eating better, then choose the supplements better for you (in all  a$pects). <br />Packer does repeat himself a bit, but it makes sense repeating  some info in different areas of the book. <br />Overall I liked it...	1999-10-13
US	51078460	R31P7KVMIVX047	0395595118	276015944	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant	Yes, its as good as people say. Masterpiece, no need to type more	1999-10-05
