US	51073392	ROR29JCH9RB9N	0970886977	962975278	A Treasury of Magical Knitting	Books	2	229	249	N	N	Take a good look before you purchase	As with so many knitting or crochet books, you've got to take a good look at this one before you purchase it.  The book is devoted to the use of the Moebius strip in knitting patterns, a Moebius strip being a loop of knitted fabric with a twist in it.  If you are a freeform knitter who is interested in the Moebius construction or who wants to incorporate its unusual structure into your knitting, then this book may intrigue you.  If you are a more traditional knitter, you may find the book to be a rather expensive one-trick pony.  Likewise, scan the patterns carefully to determine whether they are to your taste.  I personally can't imagine making any of them, but that's just me -- yet another compelling reason for looking at the book before you purchase to decide whether, say, necklaces made of miniature knit socks are something you'd like to wear to the office on Monday.  The production values for the book have gone up dramatically since the \\"Socks Soar\\" book: color photography, nicer paper, more sturdy binding, but so has the price.	2004-11-14
US	51073392	R3CLRCOE9NYY9F	1931543593	230759705	Under Cover: 60 Afghans to Knit and Crochet	Books	2	45	50	N	Y	Disappointing and bargain-store blah	When I heard that an afghan/throw book was coming out under Vogue Knitting's Sixth & Spring imprint, I was intrigued.  Having purchased the book, however, I find myself quite disappointed.  The majority of the afghans in the book are crocheted, not knitted, which should be made clear somewhere for the prospective purchaser.  The patterns appear to be submissions from the large acrylic-yarn producers; no designers are identified and the patterns look like the freebies you see at chain craft stores:  crocheted stripes, crocheted granny squares, pastel baby blankets, a few holiday-themed monstrosities.  Considering that there are 60 different patterns in the book, there isn't much variety in the yarns used or the styles, and the samples are done in low-end acrylics which don't show the patterns to their best advantage.  On the plus side, I do like the spiral binding and the production values are high (which may explain the relatively high price tag).   <br /> <br />In the end, it all comes down to taste.  I am sure there will be knitters who like these patterns just fine; I happen not to be one of them.  It behooves the potential purchaser to look before purchasing, especially with an investment on the high side for knitting/crochet books.	2004-09-30
US	51073392	R33BCMBHXVXUZR	0762414510	518932491	The Joy Of Knitting Companion	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Take your knitting to the next level	What do you do when you've learned the basic skills of knitting -- casting on & off, knitting, purling -- and are looking to expand your skills and become a better knitter?  The answer is simple: buy this book.  Lisa Myers, owner of Rosie's Yarn Cellar in Philadelphia, has been in the yarn business for years and is an experienced writer and teacher.  She shares her hard-earned knowledge in this book, designed to take novice knitters to the next level (although even experienced knitters can learn a lot and will appreciate the charts and technical info).  She gives practical advice for picking yarns, selecting stitch patterns,  and incorporating design techniques for a variety of garments:  mittens, hats, socks, and so on.  There are helpful illustrations and plenty of tables and other information to help you make sense of it all. Don't spend the rest of your life blindly following other people's patterns:  become a thinking knitter and make the knitted garments YOU want to make.	2004-08-22
US	51073392	RS2C3HD3TW8Q8	0873498607	263652165	Textured Knits: Quick and easy step-by-step projects	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Great patterns but not a big range of sizes	A good selection of lovely patterns, contemporary-feeling but classic enough to last, mainly (but not entirely) in the fitted cardigan category.  I like the use of beads in some patterns, and the different stitch patterns used to achieve stitch texture.  The book is high in production values, with good photography and a very Rowan- or Bliss- like feel. My biggest quibble is that the sizing is limited, only 3 sizes and they range from 34 to 38.  Uses all Rowan and Jaeger yarns but most of the patterns are DK weight so it would be easy to substitute. Definitely worth a look if you fit in the size range.	2004-08-17
US	51073392	R1PIP5FVBDCSM0	1885477252	961804317	Unlocking the Mysteries of Sensory Dysfunction: A Resource for Anyone Who Works With, or Lives With, a Child with Sensory Issues	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	A little too simplistic for me	This is a very simplified, big-picture look at sensory integration disorder. If you have never heard of sensory integration and are looking for a quick way to get up to speed on the basics, then this book might be helpful. The book is easy to read and covers issues like school, different age groups, and an explanation of what SI is. However, there isn't much text, and what's there is short on details and depth. If you've already read &quot;The Out of Sync Child,&quot; by C. S. Kranowitz, then you will probably, like me, find this too simplistic to be worthwhile.	2004-07-30
US	51073392	RGQR8V1W6J56Z	0679452206	775409674	Where the Truth Lies: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Funny, suspenseful, finely-crafted mystery	Okay, the guy who wrote this excellent debut novel also happens to be the same guy who did the deliciously cheesy &quot;Pina Colada Song.&quot; Get over it. Rupert Holmes is an impressive writer and apparently one of those supremely talented Renaissance types who can do everything well -- write, compose, sing, etc. The book is clever, suspenseful, laugh out loud funny, and the kind of book that sucks you in from the beginning and makes you want to neglect everything else in your life until you finish every page. What more could you want in a mystery novel?	2004-07-30
US	51073392	R2IAJ77RFPGUNX	0345451422	340711328	Quirky Kids: Understanding and Helping Your Child Who Doesn't Fit In- When to Worry and When Not to Worry	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Understanding, practical help for parents w/ difficult kids	This is one of those rare books that deserves more than 5 stars. As the mom of a challenging, hard-to-parent kid, this book was tremendously helpful and comforting. I only wish I'd read it five years ago, when I first started to feel as though my child was &quot;different&quot; and &quot;quirky&quot; but chalked it up to being a first-time mom and worrywart. The book does a great job of explaining different kinds of behavior that quirky kids exhibit; defines and distinguishes between different diagnoses that quirky kids may receive (like Asperger's, attention deficit and sensory integration); talks about real-world problems that arise while parenting a quirky kid; gives practical advice for how to handle troublesome behaviors and situations; offers guidance for getting quirky children the best, most effective education from infancy through the teen years; talks realistically about various therapies; and most of all, provides reassurance and comfort. I especially appreciated the quotes from real parents of quirky kids. If you've ever suspected your kid might be &quot;different,&quot; &quot;quirky&quot; or &quot;abnormal&quot;, if you've ever wondered whether your kid's troublesome behavior was normal or something more, if you've flirted with the idea of seeking professional help for a child you love, please read this book. You will be better able to distinguish between what may be a significant problem and what's just a stage, and you will find comfort, strength and hope for the journey ahead.	2004-07-30
US	51073392	RD0UPN4C3Z7WK	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Not up to the hype	I never made it past the first hundred or so pages of this excessively-hyped novel. The novel's main flaw is its lack of anything resembling a plot. The book simply consists of anecdote after repetitive anecdote in which the heartless rich parents (\\"Mr. & Mrs. X\\") neglect their 4-yr-old moppet while treating the nanny like dirt.  The relentless samey-ness of it first produced boredom, which quickly morphed into irritation at the nanny: if the job is so awful, then quit already, or if you prefer to sell your self-respect for the tax-free $12 an hour the Xes are paying you, then take your money and shut up already.  The technical quality of the writing isn't that bad, and I liked the nanny-themed quotes which opened each chapter; but I just couldn't get past the repetitive and dreary plot, or the one-sided characters (i.e., Nanny Good, Parents Bad). It's easy to create characters that are unsavory through and through; it's a lot harder - but a lot more interesting and thought-provoking -- to depict characters with some complexity and nuance, the curious mixture of faults with the occasional virtue that more accurately reflects real people. I suppose there is a subpopulation of folks in NYC who will hang on every morsel of dirt this novel dishes out, furiously trying to analyze which of their wealthy friends \\"Mrs. X\\" is supposed to represent. I'm obviously not one of them. I don't particularly care about the lives of the Park Avenue rich, nor do I choose to spend my leisure time reading a dreary and depressing chronicle of emotional child abuse.	2002-08-18
US	51073392	R1LDTFYAFU4QOO	0440509238	201081948	Spin Cycle	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Unbalanced load	When my life feels more stressful than usual, I often reach for some lightweight, screwball romantic fiction as a distraction. No Oprah-dysfunction-angst, no complicated plots, just some escapism and a couple of laughs. \\"Spin Cycle\\" didn't meet even my minimal expectations. The author managed to put together a more clever bedroom farce in \\"Neurotica,\\" a previous book, and many of the same themes are recycled in \\"Spin Cycle\\" (spunky Jewish gal with high-maintenance mother, steady relationship going lukewarm in the bedroom, infidelity). Lead character Rachel is a London stand-up comic in a steady relationship with compulsively-clean dentist Adam, but when their sex life fizzles, she finds herself drawn to Matt, who has come to fix the washing machine. Will Rachel realize she is truly in love with the Maytag repairman? Will she win the stand-up comedian contest and prove to everyone that she can make a living doing what she loves?<br /> Margolis tries so hard to be funny and hip and snarky, but her parade of one-liners is just no substitute for good writing. Her characters lack any depth and are stereotypes of themselves; the plot is held together by ridiculous and contrived coincidence; and the graphic sex scenes just seem a little too bodice-ripper for a book aiming for the urban hipster crowd. Scene after scene feels like it was intended for a Seinfeld-esque sitcom but ended up on the cutting room floor. For me, an insurmountable flaw in a book is self-consciousness; if the book doesn't engage me, make me care about the characters and make me care what happens to them, well, why bother? And that says it all about \\"Spin Cycle\\": why bother?	2002-08-10
US	51073392	R22ZQYNKL5GMYG	0970886950	888751671	Socks Soar on Two Circular Needles: a Manual of Elegant Knitting Techniques and Patterns	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Well worth the money for the speed & ease of the technique	\\"Socks Soar\\" has gotten a lot of buzz in the knitting world for its demonstration of a method for knitting socks (and for that matter, other small items in the round, like sleeves or mittens) on two circular needles, instead of using 4 or 5 double-pointed needles. I have tried to knit socks on double-pointed needles and found the experience frustrating and anxiety-provoking -- and since one of the chief reasons I knit is for pleasure and to relax, quickly abandoned that method and reconciled myself to a few \\"two-needle\\" sock and mitten patterns, with the requisite seam-sewing. After hearing about Bordi's book, I ordered a copy and within fifteen minutes of trying her method, was knitting quickly, easily and proficiently on a sock -- and loving it. For me, learning this technique and being able to use it effortlessly was well worth the price of the book. I have used the basic sock pattern at least 4 or 5 times already (and I've only had the book a month) and probably will try some of the other patterns included in the book. That being said, some of the criticism the book has received is justified. For example, the production quality of the book isn't great; ... you get a paperback book that is less than 50 pages long, with only black and white photographs, and less than 10 sock patterns. I personally found the chatty, cutesy, conversational style of the writing a little much to take at times. The patterns (with one or two exceptions) are written only in one size, to fit the dreaded \\"average women's medium\\" without adjustments for kids or men (or us ladies with big feet). And the sock patterns are rather ho-hum; several are just stockinette with slight variations in the gauge but no substantial or particularly creative alterations. If you approach this book for what it is, namely an introduction to a new technique that may well convert you to circular sock knitting, then your expectations are likely to be met. If you are looking for a creative or exciting sock patternbook, or are already proficient and comfortable with your dpns, then perhaps this isn't the book for you.	2002-05-24
US	51073392	R4ZM0QIHMPA5W	0809296985	204299427	Minnies : QuickKnits for Babies and Toddlers	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Terrific collection of quick-knits for kids	Jil Eaton's latest collection of patterns for babies and toddlers, Minnies, is outstanding. The collection contains Eaton's hallmarks -- fun &amp; funky styling, relatively simple techniques, bright colors, high-quality yarns -- in a variety of patterns, including sweaters, hats, a christening gown, sundress, one-piece romper and more. Great photos of real kids wearing the finished items are supplemented by clear shots of just the garment lying flat AND by schematic diagrams with detailed measurements (both important to a serious knitter). I've zipped through three of the patterns already, and they are indeed quick to knit while yielding quite professional results. I like the fact that Eaton uses a wide variety of yarns and gauges, and that virtually all of the patterns can be completed in a short period of time (before your child grows out of the size!). I especially appreciate that Eaton's patterns manage to maintain an original and fresh feel, avoiding that recycle-too-many-old-patterns trap that some designers fall into by their third or fourth book. Now that my son is getting too big for the toddler sizes, I can only hope that more patterns for bigger kids on are the way....	2001-11-25
US	51073392	R1NISN9U2Z8QU9	0385493029	464430501	Misconceptions: Truth, Lies, and the Unexpected on the Journey to Motherhood	Books	2	202	241	N	N	A few valid points overwhelmed by melodrama & poor-me-ism	As a pregnant stay-at-home mother, I've experienced first-hand the extent to which society devalues motherhood and pregnancy. I therefore found the concept of Naomi Wolf's book, \\"Misconceptions,\\" intriguing: Wolf purports to \\"show how the experience of becoming a mother ... [is] undersupported, sentimentalized, and even manipulated at women's expense.\\" Sadly, the book's whiny, self-pitying tone and unrelenting negativity will undoubtedly alienate the people Wolf seeks to convince.<BR> Let me start by saying that Wolf does make many valid points about the unsupportive and often negative way American society treats pregnant women and new mothers. For example, she rightly points out the stinginess of most employers when it comes to maternity leave; the unreasonable difficulty in determining important statistics like a hospital's rate of maternal death or percentage of patients who ultimately get C-sections; and the unwillingness of society to deal straight-on with the less romantic aspects of pregnancy and motherhood. And Wolf's critique of the patronizing \\"What to Expect When You're Expecting\\" (which is a minuscule portion of the book, but has received disproportionate emphasis in many reviews) is dead-on accurate.<BR> Unfortunately, the important and thought-provoking parts of the book are far outweighed by the book's flaws: (1) for every one well-reasoned argument or analysis, there are at least two or three that are questionable or even plainly absurd. For example, is Wolf seriously suggesting that what a pregnant woman sees or does can somehow \\"imprint\\" on her unborn fetus? Consider her response to the morally ambiguous and extremely complex issue of selective termination: \\"What sort of violence might the surviving siblings remember in that place below memory?\\".  In another case, she cites the statistic that women in \\"troubled\\" relationships have a much higher percentage of children with problems, in support of the proposition that a pregnant woman's \\"happiness\\" has a direct impact on her baby's health. Isn't it more likely that a woman without a supportive partner is less likely to receive adequate prenatal care, or is more likely to receive physical abuse from her partner or to resort to drugs or alcohol to deal with her problems? (2) The melodramatic and whiny tone that permeates the book. See, for example, this description of the ambivalence most pregnant women feel before the baby is born: \\"The maiden 'I' sometimes had to weep with the sure, coming death of the maiden-self, the self that could 'arise and go now' at will; the self that is not food for others but eats and drinks the world.\\" Or Wolf's over-the-top, pages-long description of her labor experience (basically, she didn't like the hospital, had an epidural, and later, a C-section) - subsequently described as her \\"trauma\\" - that would make one believe the nurses shoved bamboo shoots under her fingernails for kicks (e.g. \\"What was left of me as a physical presence felt like a trapped, cornered animal\\"; \\"Drugged and pinned, that is what I remember of the birth\\"). Believe me, I am sympathetic to tough labor experiences - I pushed for 3 hours before my son was delivered by C-section - but the flowery adjectives, the ridiculous turns of phrase reflect an unending quest for melodrama, not to mention bad writing. (3) A related point - Wolf's wallowing in this self-imposed victimhood.  For example, the angst that Wolf describes when encountering two cold and insensitive OB's is remarkable - but instead of moaning about how infantalized they made her feel, wouldn't it simply be more constructive to find a new doc and be done with it? Throughout the book, one senses this urgent need to feel victimized, even though by most objective standards, Wolf's experiences just weren't that bad. (4) Wolf's paranoia and suspicion of the medical profession, and American society in general, also undermine the effectiveness of her arguments. I wholeheartedly agree that women - pregnant or not - need to be educated and assertive health care consumers. And certainly there are many health care professionals who are not very good. But Wolf descends into a level of paranoia that makes one wonder how slanted her arguments are, how objective she truly can be in evaluating the system. (5) The unremittingly negative tone and focus of the book. Not because I don't wish to hear how [bad] society treats pregnant women and new moms - I've experienced (and still am experiencing!) that firsthand - but because it feels like Wolf has deliberately chosen to dwell on the most extreme cases, the most unpleasant birth experiences, the most angst-ridden and neurotic emotions she felt while pregnant. She attacks so many aspects of motherhood and so many ideological viewpoints that I was left wondering what, if anything, is left. And by including so many anecdotes from friends and acquaintances that are overwhelmingly negative, one wonders if she has chosen not to hear the positive ones. <BR> Perhaps the ultimate flaw in the book is the most ironic: on the one hand, Wolf criticizes society for its refusal to discuss the blood and guts of pregnancy and motherhood in favor of a sanitized, \\"Hallmark card\\" version, but at the same time obviously believes that this idyll exists and that she was unjustly deprived of it. If you are interested in the subject matter, and wish to read a more sensible and convincing critique of the way America treats its mothers, you'd be better off reading Ann Crittendon's \\"The Price of Motherhood\\".	2001-09-26
US	51073392	R3UETYTLMAMUNE	0762410604	146705594	The Joy Of Knitting: Texture, Color, Design, And The Global Knitting Circle	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A hip and contemporary successor to EZ	Novice and experienced knitters alike should immediately add \\"The Joy of Knitting\\" to their bookshelves! \\"Joy\\" is not a pattern book, although it does contain patterns at the end of each chapter, but rather a compilation of observations (many humorous), anecdotes, advice and tips on nearly every subject that a knitter needs to know: different fibers, use of color in knitting, knitting gifts for others, how to begin designing your own patterns, a brief history of knitting, and more. Lisa Myers, in addition to being a savvy businesswoman (she owns Rosie's Yarn Cellar, a wonderful knitting shop in Philadelphia)is a darn good writer, too. Her explanation of the seductive qualities of yarn-buying will make anyone with a yarn stash chuckle knowingly, and the book is full of similarly pithy observations. Her excellent advice about the technical aspects of knitting, interspersed throughout, makes me wish I had read this book many years ago - I would have saved myself much ripping out and angst over various unsuccessful projects! It's a rare pleasure to read a book by someone who is as knowledgeable and enthusiastic about knitting, and who so intelligently and steadfastly demonstrates why knitting is both an art AND a craft.	2001-09-16
US	51073392	R2HJB9M6RDH9R	1558585362	623510960	The Rainbow Fish	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Pretty pictures but terrible message	Am I the only one in the world who hates the Rainbow Fish's message, i.e., that one has to buy friends by giving them the things one cherishes most? Sure, the watercolor-like pictures with the shiny, glittery scales are pretty, but I don't want my kids absorbing the moral that friends will like you if you give them stuff, as opposed to them liking you for who you are. I'm all for encouraging young children to share and to think of others' feelings -- but this socialist fish is for the birds!	2001-08-27
US	51073392	R21U2SU3CVNTM9	0060957239	455368411	When You're Expecting Twins, Triplets, or Quads: A Complete Resource (Harperresource Books)	Books	5	99	110	N	N	Far &amp; away the best pregnancy book for multiples	I have several of the leading books that cover twin and supertwin pregnancy, and this is by far the best of them all. First, this is one of only a handful of books devoted primarily to multiple pregnancy, as opposed to what you do with the babies once they are born. It therefore covers in much greater depth issues like special dietary requirements for multiples, signs of preterm labor, how to cope with bedrest, and more. I bought this book shortly after my multiples were diagnosed because I didn't want advice on whether to give the babies rhyming names or let them sleep in the same crib -- I wanted guidance on how to get through my high-risk pregnancy with as few complications as possible, so that I would be able to go home with two healthy babies. And this book does an excellent job of educating you about potential problem areas (without being unduly scary) and more importantly, listing concrete and do-able things that will maximize your chances of avoiding these problem areas. Second, this is one of the few pregnancy books that isn't patronizing, cloying in tone or hopelessly dumbed down. The authors clearly respect their audience and this comes through in the style and tone. Third, this book is written by people who know of what they speak: a physician who runs a moms of multiples clinic at a well-regarded teaching hospital, and a medical journalist who has twins herself. Also, anecdotes taken from real moms who survived multiple pregnancy are interspersed throughout, giving excellent tips and helping reduce that &quot;I'm a freak&quot; feeling one can get when instead of having a blissful trouble-free pregnancy, one has to deal with serious medical issues. If you are pregnant with twins or supertwins, you owe it to yourself and your babies to read this book and discuss it with your doctor.	2001-08-13
US	51073392	R1T1ZV5MBRA7P8	0312267142	532892667	Baby Style: Home Accessories and Irresistible Knitwear Designs for 0-3 Year Olds	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Some duds but overall a nice collection of baby gear	Let me start with a disclaimer: I love Debbie Bliss patterns for children and babies, and feel she is one of the best young designers out there today. So I guess you could say I'm predisposed to like whatever her latest book is. &quot;Baby Style&quot; contains many of her trademark knitted patterns that will please her diehard fans: sweaters, booties, caps, stuffed animals. While there was some feeling of repetition from her earlier books, I felt there were enough fresh ideas to make this book worth owning. I have knit from this book and had no problem with the patterns. My criticisms: (1) there are some ridiculous patterns interspersed with the good ones, like a knitted hot water bottle cover, and coat hanger covers done in a tiny gauge. Who has the time or inclination for such pointless knittery? (2) as usual, the trendy photography doesn't give you a clear look at the finished items. Close-ups of the collar or yarn are nice, but how about including a photo that would be helpful for a knitter in gauging fit or getting an overall sense of how an item looks? (3) While measurements are given at the beginning of the patterns, there are no diagrams. I find the diagrams helpful in estimating size and substituting yarns at different gauges. (4) While I am also a big fan of Rowan and Jaeger yarns, be forewarned that using the listed yarns may put quite a dent in your knitting budget (e.g., Rowan Wool-Cotton is a gorgeous yarn, but at 8 bucks and change per skein, the price of even a kid's sweater is steep). Best to be prepared to substitute if cost is an issue.	2001-07-21
US	51073392	R2QTQ8G4UVPPOA	0449003701	434459317	The Tall Pine Polka (Reader's Circle)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Sweet, folksy, entertaining look at an unusual small town	If you like the small-town, everybody-knows-your-name ambience of Jan Karon or Fannie Flagg novels, then you should give &quot;The Tall Pine Polka&quot; a whirl. Lorna Landvik's latest novel focuses on the residents of a small Minnesota town: their loves &amp; losses &amp; lessons they learn. As you might expect, there is a cast of eclectic, eccentric townfolk: coffee-shop owner/former battered wife Lee, orphan/souvenir shop owner/soon-to-be-Hollywood-starlet Fenny, delightful lesbian couple Miss Penk and Frau Katte, shoemaker-with-an-unrequited-love Pete, and sexy Native American newcomer Big Bill, to name a few. Interspersed - to great comic effect - are some California residents, too, as the plot revolves around the making of a Hollywood movie in this small town and the when-worlds-collide effect on the residents and filmmakers. Sure, the book's a little corny from time to time, and there are an awful lot of coincidences and tie-backs (a la a Seinfeld episode), but it's hard to beat a novel as spunky, fresh and ultimately upbeat as this one.	2001-07-21
US	51073392	RE6R2A5PW7LFW	0743403754	393588679	Around Again	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Haunting, bittersweet look at the ghosts of the past	I'm a big fan of Suzanne Strempek Shea, and this novel is no exception. It's a bit different in tone from her last book, more melancholy and musing, but very powerful and moving. The basic plot is one many 30- or 40-somethings can relate to: after her uncle's grave illness, Robyn returns to his farm to help him sell the property and to honor one of his last wishes - that she run the farm and its pony-ride ring for one final summer. Shea skillfully depicts the mix of emotions and memories that inevitably face the one who must pack up after an ailing or deceased relative. &quot;Around Again&quot; gains additional complexity, though, in exploring Robyn's personal history at the farm: the unexpected ending to her last visit, the summer she was 17. It's a shame Ms. Shea is not more widely known or appreciated; she's an extremely talented writer and should not merely be pigeon-holed as the &quot;Polish-American Amy Tan.&quot; &quot;Around Again&quot; does capture dead on the nuances of being a 2nd or 3rd generation Polish-American, but the cultural backdrop is really secondary to a universally-applicable story told with lyrical elegance and deep emotion.	2001-07-09
US	51073392	R1BVRITT5EXE6	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	5	110	127	N	N	Witty, funny, fun and surprisingly moving debut	I must confess that I was predisposed to like \\"Good in Bed,\\" since I've been a big fan of Jennifer Weiner's newspaper columns for some time. I wasn't, however, prepared for how fine a first novel she has produced, or how moved I was by Cannie's story. The book begins with a hilarious hook: protagonist Cannie Shapiro, entertainment columnist for a large Philadelphia newspaper, realizes that her recently-ex-boyfriend has been hired by a Cosmo-like magazine to write a [adult] column. To her horror, Cannie realizes that the pseudo-anonymous woman \\"C.\\" in Bruce's first article is her. To make this invasion of privacy even more humiliating, the column is an unexpectedly perceptive treatment of Cannie's weight problem and its effect on their relationship.  At first glance, one might assume the snarky  tone of the first few pages would continue as the novel spun out in a kind of lightweight revenge fantasy. But Weiner uses Cannie's heartbreaking invasion of privacy as jumping off point for so much more. We see Cannie grow and change, exorcising childhood demons (mostly), getting over Bruce (at last), and most moving of all, finally coming to terms with her place in life (and yes, her weight, too).  If the plot is moved along by a few too many incredible coincidences, if the book seems almost too jam-packed with characters and subplots, well, these are minor criticisms of a finely-written and sensitive first novel. Just promise me, Jennifer, you won't let Camryn Manheim star in the movie version.......	2001-05-14
US	51073392	R23PGSHPFAWOFD	0716730553	307304565	Overcoming Infertility: A Compassionate Resource for Getting Pregnant ("Scientific American" Library)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good technical info, but not your best bet	This is a comprehensive guide to the medical or technical aspects of infertility. It contains lots of helpful information about the mechanics of getting pregnant and explains in some detail what can prevent pregnancy from happening. It also discusses various forms of treatment, including IVF, GIFT and ZIFT. What prevents this book from being a top-notch fertility resource: (1) some of the information is already out-of-date due to advances in the field (for example, there's no discussion of Antagon, commonly used with injectable fertility meds and IVF, because Antagon was still being developed at the time the book went to print); (2) the author runs an Australian infertility clinic, and his take on the fertility process is somewhat different from his American counterparts (although he does occasionally mention what is commonly done in the US and Britain); (3) a somewhat cumbersome style - e.g. valuable information is taken out of the main text and put into boxes; extremely technical information is mixed in with the practical stuff a patient needs to know. There is lots of valuable information in the book, but you'll need to supplement it with your own research and other reading.	2001-04-12
US	51073392	RUGEB73BQQ6T7	0609804383	333344502	Black Rubber Dress: A Sam Jones Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Sassy &amp; fun urban antidote to the British cozy	Sam Jones is a sassy, smart, sexy sculptor who has a penchant for finding herself in the middle of trouble. While wearing the eponymous black rubber dress, she witnesses all kinds of death and mayhem -- and stubbornly vows to get to the bottom of it. Lauren Henderson has created a fresh and original heroine that combines the urban sensibilities of the Bridget Jones ilk (without the looking for love in all the wrong places plot line) with a taut whodunit. A quick, fun read, a good solid mystery, plenty of laughs -- Kinsey Millhone and V.I. Warshawski watch out!	2001-04-05
US	51073392	RK36JBE6YV11M	0449002985	397288126	Your Oasis on Flame Lake (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Emotional, affecting study of 2 families facing adversity	I liked Lorna Landvik's first book, &quot;Patty Jane's House of Curl,&quot; but &quot;Your Oasis on Flame Lake&quot; is even better. BiDi and Dev have been friends since high school; now they are married, with kids, and still living in their small Minnesota hometown. &quot;Your Oasis&quot; tells of the crises each faces within the short frame of a year or so: infidelity, a violent attack on BiDi's daughter, an addiction to pills, and more (I don't want to spoil the plot). There's a lot packed into the book, but Landvik skillfully shows the emotional impact of these events on both families. Landvik states in the reader's guide (at the back of the book) that she considers this a more thoughtful and less emotion-driven book than &quot;Patty Jane&quot;; but I think &quot;Your Oasis&quot; also benefits from its contemporary setting and the more compressed time period (&quot;Patty Jane&quot; takes place over a much longer period of years). The characters are believable and very real, like people you know. The dialogue is particularly well-done and rings true. Once you get a few pages in, it's a hard book to put down: smart, funny, touching &quot;chick lit&quot; that is a refreshing change from the urban professional scene of the post-Bridget-Jones genre.	2001-03-29
US	51073392	R2G4WAPR89YI5D	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Art history meets detective story meets morality play	Philosopher Martin Clay is asked by a neighbor to appraise a few paintings; he's unimpressed with all but one, a pastoral scene that he believes to be a long-lost Bruegel. But instead of leveling with his neighbor, Martin decides to keep mum and buy the painting himself. Is Martin truly motivated by a desire to see a great work of art returned to a museum so that the world can enjoy it, or is it simply greed? Can a nerdy academic successfully scam his more worldly neighbor -- and convince his own wife that it's worth doing? Is the painting truly the Dutch masterpiece that Martin believes (or wants to believe) it is? Will Martin's marriage and family survive his obsession with the purported Bruegel? Frayn keeps the reader guessing, mixing art history lessons about the Dutch masters with Martin's bumbling attempts to pull a sting, deftly portraying the unintended disruption to Martin's family life and marriage that inevitably follows. The book is perhaps a little too didactic when it comes to Martin's art history research, and this is why I found the beginning of the book slow going -- it is densely packed with names and dates, references to obscure artists and intellectuals as well as more well-known ones, and in-depth analysis of various Dutch paintings. But it's worth persevering as the novel builds up steam until its hilarious and supremely fitting denouement.	2001-03-25
US	51073392	RJYFNA2U9FJYB	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	1	5	26	N	N	Doesn't live up to the hype	The protagonist is weird, he belches a lot, he loses his job. There. Save yourself ten bucks and move on.	2001-03-22
US	51073392	R2WFMVZSLWE024	0452281784	128488664	Bad Heir Day	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Quick, fun read but don't expect too much	&quot;Bad Heir Day&quot; is the classic beach book: entertaining, easy to read, fun and escapist. Heroine Anna gets dumped by her jerk of a boyfriend, secures a job as nanny to a hateful &amp; spoiled ten-year-old, then flees her young charge by agreeing to marry a man she barely knows &amp; live in his family's Scottish castle. As you can doubtless glean from this plot summary (and from the title of the book), Jane Austen this ain't. Yes, most of the characters are shallow stereotypes; the plot is unbelievable; the writing tries too hard to be clever; and worst of all, main character Anna comes across as a rather, well, boring and passive drip. But &quot;Bad Heir Day&quot; is still likeable and enjoyable, perhaps because it has no pretensions that it is any more than a fun, fast, fantasy-strewn read.	2001-03-21
US	51073392	R1U9CDQGKRLRJP	0345303857	229781902	Food and Healing: How What You Eat Determines Your Health, Your Well-Being, and the Quality of Your Life	Books	5	77	80	N	N	Fascinating look at nutrition - and not just for the sick	Although I don't necessarily agree with everything Annemarie Colbin has to say about food &amp; health (for example, I believe that certain immunizations are a critical part of one's health care and not unnecessary or harmful), &quot;Food and Healing&quot; is an excellent and thoughtful treatment of a complex subject. The title may erroneously give the impression that the book is just for those who are ill. In fact, the book has a lot to offer to anyone who is interested in learning more about nutrition, and how what we eat can make us feel better or worse. We know that caffeine can give you energy or make you nervous, and that a high-fat diet can cause heart disease; Colbin theorizes that other kinds of food, food ingredients and even methods of preparation affect the body in different but no less profound ways. Particularly intriguing are Colbin's musings on &quot;food philosphy&quot;: e.g., multi-faceted comparisons of different diets; how different thinkers approach food in a different philosophical way; various ways to look at food choices and their effects on the body. I was impressed by the breadth of the sources Colbin cites (although occasionally one finds an outdated reference, like the ones to the now-debunked Tasaday &quot;tribe&quot;) and how she weaves everything together into a coherent and readable book. What really won me over, however, was Colbin's insistence on taking a flexible approach to eating. Colbin emphasizes that no diet should remain static, and we need to choose different kinds of diets to reflect and address what is going on in our lives at different times. She is remarkably open-minded and tolerant of all points of view, allowing the reader to take away nuggets of wisdom from unlikely sources. If some of the opinions expressed seemed a bit too airy-fairy for me (e.g., auras, and her apparent rejection of the germ theory of disease transmission), even these sections were interesting and thought-provoking. Required reading for anyone whohas &quot;food issues,&quot; wants to improve her diet, has a chronic health problem, or works in the nutrition field.	2001-03-14
US	51073392	RCM3ROWDOV1U0	0786865296	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk and the Miraculous Rescue of her Survivors	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Riveting story of survival &amp; human spirit	Jennifer Niven's experience as a screenwriter stands her in good stead in &quot;The Ice Master,&quot; a gripping tale of the doomed Arctic voyage of the ship Karluk. It is nearly impossible to imagine how anyone survived the Karluk, a rickety ship unsuited to the rigors of Arctic travel, manned by an ill-equipped &amp; inexperienced group. The ship quickly became immobilized by an ice floe, at which point the expedition's &quot;leader&quot; callously abandoned his men. Embedded in the floe, the ship floated aimlessly while the remaining crew and passengers struggled to survive. After enduring months in the ice-locked ship, the Karluk was destroyed by shifting ice masses and sank, forcing the group to abandon ship and make camp on top of the ice. Later, the survivors trekked across treacherous ice until they reached a small, nearly uninhabitable island. There they hung on for many more months until their rescue, suffering from starvation, disease, frostbite, despair, and infighting.  Niven's vivid descriptions of the horrors &amp; deprivations faced by these individuals leave you awestruck at the strength of the human body and the power of the human spirit. Surviving by chewing seal blubber and walrus hides - snow blindness - a mysterious illness that left most of the survivors nearly incapacitated - hunting for game on a desolate and barren Arctic island with a sharpened stick - enduring below-zero temperatures and gale-force winds &amp; snow for weeks at a time - 24-hour darkness in the winter - amputating frostbitten tissue with a pocket knife - it is nearly unbelievable. (Also unbelievable but infinitely more cheering is that the Karluk's little black cat managed to survive the ordeal, too.) Truly a book you cannot put down, that takes you outside your world &amp; transports you to another place and time, and leaves you marveling at the good and evil that reside inside us all.	2001-02-07
US	51073392	R3V8WXRMUUSYBG	0743203984	503232720	Flu: The Story Of The Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus that Caused It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great germ detective story	I love a good germ book, and &quot;Flu&quot; had me engrossed from the first page on. Gina Kolata has a punchy, matter of fact writing style that made the narrative flow and held my attention. I particularly enjoyed the way Kolata integrated science, medicine and history to make the story of the germ-hunters come alive. There is just enough scientific detail to place the search for the flu virus into context without bogging the reader down in too much jargon. And fans of the detective story will appreciate the way Kolata turns what could be a dry scientific research project into a dramatic, man-against-nature quest. Be forewarned that the book does not describe the 1918 flu pandemic in great detail -- the focus is mainly on subsequent attempts to find the virus and discover how to prevent it from causing another pandemic. (In that respect, the subtitle is a bit misleading, as it suggests the book will contain a more lengthy historical treatment of the 1918 experience, which it does not.) Fascinating and provocative, &quot;Flu&quot; raises some of the same questions that Laurie Garrett's &quot;The Coming Plague&quot; does, particularly whether humans have the capacity to survive another microbial onslaught like that of 1918.	2001-02-05
US	51073392	RBEO9RU3EC664	0151004536	271428762	Longing	Books	3	22	28	N	Y	Fascinating subjects but no fun to read	&quot;Longing&quot; is a fictionalized biography of composer Robert Schumann and his wife, pianist/composer Clara Wieck Schumann. Schumann and Wieck lived fascinating lives in the midst of the Romantic movement, an era full of change &amp; upheaval, and hobnobbed with the likes of Chopin, Mendelsohn, Brahms and more. Schumann first met Wieck when she was a child and their relationship began (platonically at first) when he came to study piano under her father. &quot;Longing&quot; traces the often tortured relationship between the two, as well as the relationships between Schumann and Wieck and their music.  All of this sounds like a great read -- but for me, the writing style made plowing through this book just too painful. The author is fond of long, twisted sentences and lengthy paragraphs full of digressions. Constant references to great thinkers, musicians, historical events distract from the narrative rather than adding to it. The author obviously did copious research, but instead of integrating it seamlessly into the novel (and this is indeed a novel, not a work of nonfiction), he hits you over the head with it. An example are the frequent footnotes, which really don't relate to the narrative at all but are sidelights that the author found interesting but I found distracting and usually irrelevant.  When I get to the point where I find myself thinking &quot;I ought to finish this book&quot; rather than eagerly anticipating a chance to read more, it's time to move on. It's a shame, though, because I really wanted to like this book.	2001-01-26
US	51073392	R29AWX6624B8V1	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Charming, sparkling, fun romantic comedy	After thoroughly enjoying &quot;Ralph's Party,&quot; Lisa Jewell's first novel, I devoured &quot;Thirty nothing&quot; in less than a day. The plot of Jewell's second novel is &quot;When Harry Met Sally&quot; by way of &quot;Bridget Jones&quot;: Thirty-year-olds Dig and Nadine are best friends who vow to get their lives together by finding the perfect mates. Will they ever come to realize what all their friends already know: that they were meant for each other? The book has a lot of charm and style, some very funny scenes (the first few pages, where Dig wakes up after his 30th birthday with a hangover, a 17-yr-old girl and no memory of last night's festivities, is priceless), and believable, likeable characters. Jewell writes with warmth and empathy about those late-twenties-early-thirties days when singletons invariably wonder about the path their life has taken and why they seem to be the only ones in the world who haven't hooked up. If you enjoy sassy British fiction, romantic comedy, or are just looking for some fun and enjoyable reading to while away the afternoon, &quot;Thirty nothing&quot; is worth a whirl.	2001-01-17
US	51073392	RS9WKXYEDDCX4	0966007859	578089290	Inconceivable: Winning the Fertility Game	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Inspiring &amp; empowering memoir of secondary infertility	Julia Indichova has written a powerful, poignant book that is part memoir, part self-help manual. After numerous infertility specialists told her she would never have a baby without major intervention, Ms. Indichova began searching for alternatives. She visited various health practitioners, altered her diet, used self-guided imagery and began practicing yoga. She describes these efforts, as well as the emotional implications of wanting to conceive a second child. The book is a wonderful and inspiring look at infertility, particularly secondary infertility, which often gets short shrift in the literature. Ms. Indichova's main conclusion is that women must take control of their own &quot;therapy,&quot; whether conventional medicine or otherwise, and trust their own instincts about doing what feels right and beneficial. If you are skeptical of new age-ism, alternative therapies and the like, the emphasis on non-western methods of healing and spirituality may turn you off, although the author's insights about the fertility process make it worth reading anyway. If your mind is open to other possibilities, and you are eager to maintain hope -- perhaps against the odds -- this book will be a godsend.	2000-12-28
US	51073392	R14IJ6JVA6X55F	0809224305	403257677	Big Fish, Little Fish: QuickKnits for Kids and Grown-Ups (A MinnowKnits Book)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Finally - Jil Eaton patterns in grown-up sizes!	I'm a big fan of Jil Eaton's two Minnowknits books and have made many of her patterns for my son and other children of whom I'm fond. So I was absolutely delighted to see that her latest book includes two sets of sizes: one for kids and one for adults. As usual, the patterns are simple, use larger needles and yarns (no 7 st per inch gauges here!)and are fun, fun, fun. Bright colors, hip but not too trendy styles, interesting yarns (including, for example, chenille, Wensleydale longwool, and some of the new microfiber yarns) and fast knits. I made one of the patterns already and had no trouble following the directions - they are simple and clear. Experienced knitters might find these patterns a bit too simple if they are looking for a challenge or like complicated colorwork or patterned stitchwork, but these patterns are perfect for the beginner, those who haven't knitted in years, or the time-crunched. More, Ms. Eaton, more!	2000-12-12
US	51073392	R3PJDCSAWQ7V8	0140250913	753226033	The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Terrifying, fascinating, thorough, but lo-o-o-ong	I have no background in public health or medicine, but the topic of Laurie Garrett's &quot;The Coming Plague&quot; - i.e., man's battle against microbial disease -- fascinates me. Her book is a thorough and well-documented look at how humans have fought against microbial disease -- and perhaps most important, how humans have unintentionally created conditions that foster the development and rapid spread of even more lethal microbes. Garret won a Pulitzer for her reporting and it shows: she knows her stuff. She pulls together individual stories of public health scientists and doctors fighting specific diseases (like Ebola and AIDS) along with frightening statistics about the global spread of disease. For those interested in her research, there are detailed notes at the end of the book. I found the chapters on AIDS and toxic shock syndrome particularly interesting -- and appalling, too, in some respects; for example, Garrett demonstrates how flaws in the public health system, politics and collective denial resulted in inexcusable delays in informing the public about AIDS and how to prevent it. It is frightening to imagine what could happen should another virulent strain of microbe appear; Garrett clearly does not believe the world is ready for it, yet trends like the continued over-development of land and increasing &quot;thirdworld-ization&quot; suggest that the emergence of such microbes is just a matter of time. The length of the book may prove daunting for some readers, and it does take a while to plow through. While I found much of the book fascinating and gripping (especially anecdotes about specific researchers fighting specific diseases), the book occasionally launches into numbing recitations of statistic after statistic, which although supporting Garrett's points, became tedious reading for me. I simply skimmed through some of those portions. My husband kept picking up the book, opening it to various chapters, then muttering &quot;This is really interesting!&quot; This book should be required reading for those in the public health field, physicians and politicians.	2000-12-06
US	51073392	R3BEULUA56AP8R	0684803852	90910415	Brat Farrar	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Tight, taut and suspenseful	Brat Farrar agrees, against his better judgment, to assume the identity of a dead English boy and take his place as master of a small estate. He doesn't expect to feel an odd sense of belonging in the dead boy's life, or to feel such deep affection for the dead boy's family -- or to be treated with such contempt by the dead boy's twin brother. It's tough to make the &quot;imposter&quot; plot believeable - and Tey manages to suck you in from the very first page. What happens to Brat, and whether his deception is ultimately uncovered, makes for a taut, tense ride. Tey is not only great at building suspense, she's also a darn fine writer. Her characters are well-developed and psychologically true. She has a great eye for detail and paints an affectionate portrait of post-war English country life. I couldn't put this one down until I finished it.	2000-11-21
US	51073392	R14BTVJXVEXBHD	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	4	10	12	N	N	More history than mystery - but extremely well done	It's a little deceiving to consider this book a mystery novel in the traditional sense; it's much more of an historical study. The topic itself is fascinating: was Richard III the murdering, amoral monster that Shakespeare made him out to be, or was he merely misunderstood? Tey makes a cogent and compelling argument that Richard did not, in fact, murder his young nephews in the Tower of London, nor possess the negative qualities so often ascribed to him. Her historical analysis is cleverly contained in a contemporary setting; Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard is laid up in hospital and sets his mind to figuring out the conundrum of Richard III while he recuperates. Grant enlists the help of a young American researcher; dialogues between the two and Grant's internal analysis form the &quot;action&quot; or &quot;plot&quot; of the story. If you are in the mood for a classic whodunit, a body in library-type mystery, this is not your cup of tea -- no one in Grant's time is murdered and his &quot;solving&quot; of the crime is only speculation. If you like history and have an open mind about Richard III, this is a well-written, well-researched and well-argued book. One thing I had trouble with was the author's assumption that the reader is familiar with much more of English history than I was, so at times, I was a bit overwhelmed by the names and references I didn't always get. If, after finishing &quot;Daughter of Time,&quot; you're interested in learning more about Richard III, try &quot;Royal Blood,&quot; by Bertram Fields as a good and thorough overview, with arguments both pro- and anti-Richard set forth.	2000-11-11
US	51073392	R2RFWPXVS4NDZ1	0312186886	387660503	Human Croquet: A Novel	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Creative, unusual, challenging -- WOW!	Kate Atkinson has a quite unusual and creative style of writing. If you like very linear,unambiguous fiction, she is definitely not for you but if you are up for a challenging and extraordinary read, check this, her second novel, out. It's hard to describe &quot;Human Croquet&quot; without sounding unbearably pretentious or giving away too much of the plot. Simply put,&quot;Human Croquet&quot; is the story of Isobel Fairfax, a teenager growing up in northern England in the early 1960s -- but the book goes far beyond the traditional coming-of-age story, with its time-bending, imaginative plot. History is intermingled with the present, dreams with reality, and alternate realities are at war with what's actually happening in Isobel's life. The characters are vivid and real, the writing is funny and witty and fresh, and Isobel's story and voice grip you from the beginning. Thoroughly enjoyable, and well worth the trip.	2000-10-25
US	51073392	R2I90EJ8V9AZ2S	0312245440	821860031	Grange House: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Terrific gothic mystery/romance/coming-of-age/ghost story	If you like gothic mystery or a good ghost story - I'm thinking Wilkie Collins, or &quot;Jane Eyre,&quot; or Henry James (or does anyone remember the book &quot;Jane-Emily,&quot; by Patricia Clapp, a favorite of my youth?), then &quot;Grange House&quot; will be a treat. Intelligent and graceful writing, engrossing characters, great atmosphere, romance, ghosts, secrets of the past, spooky and foreboding and gripping and wonderful!	2000-10-08
US	51073392	R1JEGXTTOVV1CM	0671868713	966435098	And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	3	11	14	N	N	The story is gripping, the writing so-so	I picked this book up mainly because I'm from the Philadelphia area and followed the intense coverage of the Capano trial as it happened. The story is compelling: the wealthy, politically connected yet controlling &amp; obsessive lover, the beautiful yet troubled and needy murder victim, infidelity, betrayal, violence, stalking, family ties, all the ingredients of a TV movie or novel, yet, sadly, from real life. Ann Rule does a thorough job of assembling the facts, having interviewed many of the key players and obviously having extensively studied the trial transcripts, evidence and court pleadings. She also does a nice job of painting psychological portraits of the principals: Capano, Anne Marie Fahey, Debby McIntyre. Rule's writing is workmanlike, a little cliche-ridden, nothing special, but the story pulls you in and makes you shake your head in bewilderment at the waste of it all: a lovely, spirited &amp; intelligent woman dead instead of raising the children she ought to have had; a bright, wealthy attorney who had every advantage in life yet squandered them all; close-knit families broken into pieces; lives and reputations destroyed. Read it and weep.	2000-09-23
US	51073392	R1VD98S8OCAS3T	0805060464	782618280	Expecting Miracles: On the Path of Hope from Infertility to Parenthood	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Compassionate look at cutting-edge fertility treatment	&quot;Expecting Miracles&quot; is a warm, compassionate and uplifting  description of the experiences of a dozen or so couples who sought help in  conceiving a child from the author's infertility clinic. Each chapter tells  one couple's story, as a sort of a mini-character study or &quot;case  study&quot;; we learn about the patients' medical histories, their  relationship with their significant others, their personalities, and the  impact that their difficulty in conceiving &amp; carrying to term has had  on them &amp; their families. Interspersed with the human stories are clear  &amp; succinct explanations of the science and medical technology used to  help infertile couples conceive. Dr. Zouves' reverence for the spirituality  and mystery inherent in the reproductive process was particularly  refreshing. <br />As someone currently undergoing the initial stages of  fertility treatment, I found the scientific information very helpful in  understanding more about the delicate reproductive process (and how today's  medicine can assist). I also found myself responding very emotionally to  the plight of these couples. You'd have to have a heart of stone not to  shed a tear at some of these beautiful, yet painful, stories! Nearly all of  the stories have happy endings, though, and while that certainly does make  for a less depressing book, it probably represents an unrealistic  cross-section of infertility patients. Not everyone can be helped (sadly, I  have several dear friends who fall into this category) and I imagine  relatively few couples have the resources to pursue the kind of  cutting-edge treatment Dr. Zouves describes - flying to the West Coast  constantly, staying in hotels, paying for surrogates, not to mention the  cost of the treatment itself (rarely covered by insurance). On the other  hand, the book may well provide the necessary hope for those who are just  barely hanging on in the midst of the physically and emotionally grueling  treatment.	2000-09-12
US	51073392	R197YHJ3VPYKMB	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Delightful, funny, fresh and charming	Jeanne Ray gives us a delightful reworking of the Capulet-Montague feud in &quot;Julie and Romeo&quot; - with, thankfully, a much happier ending! Main  characters Julie Roseman and Romeo Cacciamani own rival florists' shops in  Boston, and have been carrying on their families' long-standing and bitter  feud. They meet at a conference for small business owners, and, you guessed  it, something magical happens... but their families are not so easily  persuaded to give up the feud (even though no one knows exactly how it all  started).  The strengths of this book are many: (1) the characters are a  little offbeat and incredibly real (I especailly loved Mrs. Cacciamani, who  is exactly like the dowager Italian women I have known, and whose antics  made me laugh out loud. I could absolutely see my Italian friend Carmela's  mother or grandmother doing the same things!); (2) the lovers are also  atypical - instead of beautiful people in their 20s or 30s obsessed with  career or getting married, they are older, experienced, a little more  sober, so that their falling in love is unexpected and sweet; (3) the book  is unabashedly romantic in the best sense of the term; (4) there is enough  sex and irony and humor to keep things from getting sappy or maudlin -- and  to make you laugh out loud (I giggled uncontrollably at the party scene at  the end); (5) I enjoyed the way Ms. Ray took the familiar Romeo and Juliet  setup and tweaked it in an original way; (6) the author has a fresh and  refreshing voice. And, on a more superficial note, I loved the close-up  photos of flowers that opened each chapter.<br />As heartening as the first  crocus of spring, as passionate as a red rose, as charming and bright as a  daffodil, as lush and romantic as a peony... what's not to like about  &quot;Julie and Romeo&quot;?	2000-09-01
US	51073392	R2M1S7QLQV8HZJ	0307119726	224266334	Just Shopping with Mom (A Golden Look-Look Book)	Books	2	4	24	N	N	Not very charming -- and taught my son some bad habits	My two-and-a-half-year old son loves the Little Critter books, but his mom and dad aren't nearly so fond of them. The books are fairly short, simply  written and cover day-to-day topics (like taking a bath, or sharing with a  friend, or in this case, taking a shopping trip with mom) from the young  child's perspective, which probably explains why my son enjoys hearing  them. But after reading several of these books, my son began mimicking the  bad behavior illustrated in them (presumably intended by the author to get  the young reader to laugh at and learn from the miscreant). He quickly  learned how to whine &quot;I want [fill in the blank]&quot; just like the  obnoxious kid sister in this book, having never done it before. Sure, it's  probably a phase he would have entered anyway, but the fact that he is  quoting, verbatim, bratty dialogue from various Critter books makes me  loathe to recommend them to other parents. As an aside, I find the books  rather charmless and the illustrations -- bizarre snaggle-toothed  characters dressed in 19th-century clothing but depicted in 20th-century  America -- bizarre and sometimes unsettling.	2000-08-30
US	51073392	R1S3687FLZ4W1Z	089480829X	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Cloying, annoying and guaranteed to give you nightmares	Am I the only person in the world who loathed this book? I found the  syrupy-sweet tone cloying and irritating. The structure -- organizing  topics via what month of pregnancy you're in -- was, to me, difficult to  navigate; I seemed to spend an awful lot of time paging through the book to  find what I was looking for, since my questions didn't tally precisely with  the authors' timetable. While there is some good solid medical information,  the book doesn't do a good job of helping you realize how likely or  unlikely certain conditions are, or otherwise put the scary stuff in  perspective. (And the authors' insistence that their Nazi-ish diet will  solve all manner of problems is absurd.) In addition, I found the book's  attempt to help you deal with the emotional aspects of pregnancy unhelpful  and unrealistic, while the patronizing and preachy tone grates. Worst of  all is the authors' nutty &quot;food police&quot; mentality: the chapter on  the &quot;Best odds diet&quot; is downright scary. Can you imagine  seriously suggesting to someone (anyone, not just a pregnant woman) that  they should forgo all sweets and then, maybe, once a month they can have  half a bagel for a &quot;treat&quot;?!	2000-08-24
US	51073392	R3RADIN65M9B98	0452279186	337993315	Yo!	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Vivid, emotional and compelling character study	I thoroughly enjoyed this well-written and entertaining novel about  Yolanda Garcia, a Dominican-American author and her family. This is the  first Julia Alvarez book I've read, so I cannot compare it to her other  work, but &quot;Yo!&quot; certainly is capable of standing on its own as a  work of fiction. Nor did I  feel that I ought to have read &quot;How the  Garcia Girls...&quot; first to fully appreciate the novel(although I now  would like to, since I enjoyed this book so much). I particularly liked the  novel's Rashomon-like technique of telling Yo's story in bits and pieces,  through the perspective of the people who have come in and out of her life.  Each chapter is written from a different person's point of view (skillfully  rendered) and casts a different light on Yo's character and life. We meet  her nearest and dearest - sister, cousin, best friend - as well as more  tangential characters - the caretaker on her uncle's estate, a former  student. Each person tells us something about Yo's character and about  events in her life, and just as in real life, the picture we get of Yo  isn't always 100 percent consistent. My only criticism is that I felt that  one of the novel's key themes --how an author mines her own life for  material, and the effect this process has on those close to her -- wasn't  fully realized in the book, taking a backseat to the portrait of Yo that is  fleshed out chapter by chapter, person by person.  But there's a lot to  like in &quot;Yo!&quot;:  clear and vivid writing, great characterization,  emotional impact, a fascinating immigration story, and cleverly shifting  points of view.	2000-08-22
US	51073392	R2PLWH9UFFIIIS	0452281679	512189556	Simply Divine	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lightweight, amusing escapism: a British &quot;Just Shoot Me&quot;	If you're in the mood to escape to the world of turn-of-the-millenium London, full of large-breasted socialites, trashy magazines, designer  clothes, anorexic ex-debs, crumbling country manors, and just enough sex to  keep things interesting, then you may want to check out Wendy Holden's  &quot;Simply Divine.&quot; Holden apparently drew on her own experiences  working for a Brit tabloid-ish magazine; the novel features Jane, a  hard-working, not-terribly-glam journalist assigned to ghost-write columns  for the fabulous blonde bombshell socialite, Champagne D'Vyne (only one of  the ridiculous character names in the book). The book is a quick read  (though not short), full of entertaining one-liners, more puns than any  writer ought to cram in a single book, and humorous scenes. Holden skewers  many of the &quot;types&quot; found in British society, although her satire  is too often heavy-handed. I found the book best consumed in small bites;  otherwise, the unfailingly flip tone tends to grate.	2000-08-13
US	51073392	R15S3PM3YGQGPW	0060956496	776279781	Layover	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Raw and very real portrait of heartbreak	Lisa Zeidner's &quot;Layover&quot; reminds us that grief, pain and betrayal aren't always expressed in traditional or expected ways. Her  heroine Claire Newbold has suffered the devastating loss of her young  child, followed by more heartbreak in the form of her husband's infidelity  and her own failure to conceive another child. &quot;Layover&quot; tells  the story of Claire's fugue from herself: she cuts ties with her job,  husband, psychologist and begins skulking around hotel rooms, trying to  erase all outward traces of the life that's caused her so much pain. Her  exodus culminates in Philadelphia, where, after a binge of bizarre sexual  escapades, she must finally grapple with her demons. Zeidner does a  terrific job of getting inside Claire's head, portraying a mother's grief  without ever being maudlin, and showing how each new betrayal or loss helps  push Claire to the brink. Her writing is taut, often elegant, sometimes  sexy (for sex is one way Claire tries to work through her emotions) and  always compelling; the plot is just surreal enough to be achingly real.  What happens to Claire &amp; what goes on inside her head isn't always  pretty but makes for gripping and moving reading.	2000-08-07
US	51073392	R25IHOXY0LNOIA	0312243987	19815334	The Gatecrasher	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Stylish and smart, if a wee bit predictable	&quot;The Gatecrasher&quot; is an upper-class, refined, oh-so-British version of the con artist who falls in love with her prey. Fleur Daxeny (you have to love that name) attends the memorial services of wealthy wives  so she can insinuate her way into the affections of their vulnerable  widowers; as soon as she has a Gold Card in hand - conveniently billed to  the widower, of course - she is outta there. But her latest target, Richard  Favour, gives Fleur something of a crisis of confidence: he's so darn nice,  and thoughtful, and sweet, and genuine, that she isn't sure she'll be able  to go through with the scam after all. This isn't a new plot device (and  so, to some extent, the story feels like it's been done before), but  Madeleine Wickham works it with all she's got. It's great fun to peer into  the lives of the wealthy, especially when they live in mansions in the  English countryside and drink beverages like &quot;buck's fizz&quot; and  wear couture hats. Fleur manages to be charming and likeable despite her  ulterior motives. And because Wickham does a good job with characterization  and plot, one can easily overlook the more predictable elements of the  book. The result is a stylish and well-written story reminiscent of Brit  writers like Joanna Trollope.	2000-07-31
US	51073392	R29JE6FK9CB7AJ	0786706791	608881239	The Essence of the Thing: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Too much dialogue, not enough plot	Madeleine St. John has a great ear for dialogue, there's no doubt about it. It's a good thing, too, because &quot;The Essence of the Thing&quot; is carried along primarily on the strength of the characters' dialogue. The  novel is a kind of case study of the break-up; when Jonathan unexpectedly  ends his relationship with live-in lover Nicola, we see the devastating  (and ultimately liberating) effect this has on her. Anger, grief, denial,  bargaining and acceptance - yes, all these stages of loss are here,  explored in great talky detail. While I can appreciate the quality of the  writing - believable and natural dialogue that flows is incredibly hard to  do! - the novel's heavy reliance on conversation to explore Nicola's  psychological state ultimately cripples it. I was frustrated by the slow  pace; I found the short chapters and frequent shifts in time choppy;  lengthy conversations without immediately knowing who was speaking or when  sometimes confused me; and by the middle of the book, I grew impatient with  Nicola's insistence on continuing to love and moon over a man who was  clearly a jerk. That said, however, there was something engrossing about  the book that kept me reading until the end and I plan to check out more of  this author's work.	2000-07-31
US	51073392	RF5VIEZRARP3H	0684862743	197285450	George Bush, Dark Prince of Love: A Presidential Romance	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Funny &amp; ironical,  but not for everyone	If, say, Roseanne and Jeff Foxworthy were to inhabit the Sunday morning political talk shows instead of Sam and Cokie, you might find humor and current-events commentary similar to &quot;George Bush: Dark Prince of  Love.&quot; This fairly short book is part political satire, part modern  history lesson and part bizarre and humorous character portrait.  Protagonist Rosemary -- ex-con, sometime substance abuser, con artist -- is  the classic antihero: you like her and root for her despite her antisocial  and often unattractive personality traits. The novel is structured  chronologically around George Bush's presidency, as Rosemary becomes more  and more infatuated (obsessed?) with Mr. Bush's public persona and executes  a plan to gain his attention and win his love. Without spoiling it, let's  just say that the denouement is hilarious and perfectly appropriate. I am  still wondering just who in the book is crazy and who is not: Rosemary? Mr.  Bush? Both? Neither? While I heartily enjoyed this book, it definitely will  not appeal to everyone. Disguised within Rosemary's admiring commentary is  biting and keen observation about the Bush presidency, so if you sincerely  admire and respect Mr. Bush, this is not a good choice for you. If you are  not a big fan of absurdism (a la Tom Robbins or John Irving, for example),  or if the snarky tone of Comedy Central's &quot;The Daily Show&quot; leaves  you cold, you would also do well to look elsewhere. But if you're looking  for keen political satire in the guise of a rather bizarre romance, give  this unusual and smartly written book a try.	2000-07-26
US	51073392	R11RGIKPVD4ABE	0688176364	640586099	I'm Not Going to Chase the Cat Today!	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Cute picture book, but there are lots better	I was drawn to this book because of the illustrations - bright, full of primary colors, humorous and fun (a dog who wears cargo shorts? a cat dressed in capri pants?). But after reading this book aloud several times,  I am not that impressed with the text. The book is rather short, and  although the idea is cute - the dog decides to break out of his usual  routine and stop chasing the cat, the cat therefore decides to stop chasing  the mouse, et cetera - the text doesn't really go anywhere. In addition, I  found the rhymes pedestrian and the rhythm choppy. It's certainly fun to  look at, and pleasant enough, but not, in my opinion, anything that  special.	2000-07-25
US	51073392	R2K3FY5L1ZHWX7	039572029X	67228121	Eek! There's a Mouse in the House (Sandpiper Paperbacks)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Winsome silliness that is sure to elicit giggles	Another charming picture book from the creator of &quot;Fireman Small&quot; shows an escalating series of animal hijinx: a mouse is discovered in the house, so in comes the cat to chase that rat, in comes  the dog to chase the cat, and so on, all the way up to the elephant. The  illustrations are charming and feature visual puns for parents (note, for  example, the &quot;duck soup&quot;) while kids are sure to love the sweetly  humourous animals. The story is told in simple rhyme, with plenty of  exclamations and animal absurdity to make your toddler giggle.	2000-07-24
US	51073392	R35JLVBUQLDTPK	0316367311	41573919	One of Each	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A pleasure both to look at and to read aloud	In this terrific picture book, extrovert feline Peggoty Small teaches doggie loner Oliver Tolliver that everything is better when shared with a friend.  The theme is simple and perfectly suited to the typical  egocentric, &quot;everything is mine&quot; toddler. Best of all, the  message is delivered in such a charming package. If you like the rhythm  &amp; rhyme of Dr. Seuss, you're bound to enjoy the clever verse and  wordplay -- without the nonsense words that put some people off Seuss. If  you like Matisse, you'll love the illustrations: lots of bright colors  &amp; patterns, slightly skewed perspective, and plenty of whimsy. A great  book for any young child, particularly one who is having trouble sharing or  who has just become a big brother or sister.	2000-07-19
US	51073392	R1PYBI0G93RQQM	0671882392	435288232	Zin! Zin! Zin! A Violin (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Fresh, charming, artistic approach to counting and music	I wish I could give this book 6 stars, because it is a truly wonderful book for preschoolers. One by one, the instruments in a classic orchestra are introduced, combining simple counting with music education. The text is  in elegant rhyme, perfectly complemented by the bright, original &amp;  whimsical illustrations (make sure you pay attention to the  &quot;dance&quot; performed by the cats, dog and mouse). A top-notch  addition to a young child's library.	2000-07-10
US	51073392	R2M1LQ9AGRU8UO	0312209517	320783165	Life Skills	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fun, cosy, light romantic fiction, but not her best	Katie Fforde does a great job of writing smart, funny yet sweet romantic fiction. &quot;Life Skills&quot; tells the story of Julia Fairfax, who makes some dramatic changes in her life -- quitting her job, dumping her  fiance, subletting her house -- then takes an unusual job as a cook on a  canal boat while she sorts things out. Too much canal boat lingo and too  many technical details about boating threatened to overwhelm the story  before it got going, but I persevered, and eventually got hooked. Although  there's a lot to recommend this book if you're looking for a pleasant read  that is romantic yet real and intelligent, it's not Katie Fforde's best. I  found the characters a wee bit predictable (e.g. stuffy snobbish matron,  dull conventional ex-fiance, daddy's little princess); and the plot  meandering. Perhaps I've merely been spoiled by Ms. Fforde's earlier  efforts, notably &quot;Stately Pursuits&quot; and &quot;Wild Designs,&quot;  and you might want to check them out first.	2000-07-10
US	51073392	R1EALMV5EN6FE6	0618055800	504080488	A Lion Named Shirley Williamson	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny, quirky tale deserves a wider audience	Bernard Waber is probably better known for the &quot;Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile&quot; series, and the sweet &quot;Ira Sleeps Over,&quot; picture books which every young child should own. But &quot;A Lion Named Shirley  Williamson&quot; is also worth a look. A telephone miscommunication causes  the zoo to believe that its new lion is named Shirley Williamson. The  special attention that Shirley receives as a result of her unusual moniker  makes the other lions jealous. When Shirley is renamed &quot;Bongo&quot;  and her favorite zookeeper fired, she escapes. I won't spoil the cute twist  at the end, but let's just say all's well that ends well. The book has  sprightly, simple drawings that perfectly suit the slightly offbeat story,  and there's plenty of dry wit to keep parents amused, too.	2000-07-04
US	51073392	RQN75ZU6W972X	0395816599	833446757	Fireman Small	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Perfect for the firefighter-obsessed toddler set	My 2 1/2 yr old son loves this book about a diminutive firefighter who lives by the bay. There's just enough rescuing and extinguishing to satisfy his obsession with firefighters, yet the book avoids the didactic,  detail-laden, wooden tone of so many books for young children about this  topic. The rhyming, repetitive text makes this a nice bedtime book, and the  lovely, folk-art-ish pictures are a great complement to the text.	2000-07-04
US	51073392	R2SCB8V6RTEDNF	0689832133	819828038	Click, Clack, Moo Cows That Type	Books	5	74	79	N	N	Inspired bovine silliness for preschoolers and parents	The utter absurdity of the premise - cows that type? - led me to flip through this book, and then to purchase it. My 2 1/2 year old loves it, and appreciates the whimsy and incongruity of the plot: Farmer Brown's cows  find a typewriter and type out a demand letter for electric blankets,  leading to a comical negotiation to end a milk strike. The illustrations  are charming and funny (I especially love the expressions on the cows'  faces as they wait for Farmer Brown to respond to their notes), and the  droll text is just simple enough, with just enough repetition, to keep the  younger set hooked. As a lawyer, I got a kick out of the &quot;dispute  resolution&quot; - sadly, many of my colleagues don't negotiate half as  well as the bovines in this book.	2000-07-03
US	51073392	R3QIPUUSTFHCB8	068482275X	374033149	American Knees: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Bittersweet love story transcends &amp; illuminates ethnicity	Let me start by saying that I am not of Asian-American ethnicity - I am a white American of primarily Eastern European descent. Nonetheless, I found plenty to enjoy (and enlighten me) in &quot;American Knees.&quot; The novel  is a bittersweet love story about Raymond (a Chinese-American) and Aurora  (who is &quot;half&quot; Japanese, as she calls herself). Their cultural  identities and familial ties are only some of the tangled emotional threads  that threaten to choke their relationship; the age difference (Raymond is a  generation older) and the dreaded twin fears of intimacy and commitment,  for example, are also explored. I found the characters interesting and  engaging, and their many conversations about race and ethnic identity in  America were fascinating and eye-opening to this white woman. I suspect  that members of other ethnic and religious groups for whom cultural  identity and &quot;intermarriage&quot; are issues (Jews? African-Americans?  Indian-Americans?) will find these discussions even more compelling. My  criticisms of the novel: (1) these same dialogues about race and ethnicity  tend to disrupt the flow of the story somewhat; (2) the main characters'  insistence on focusing on their differences instead of their common ground  frustrated me. Perhaps I am naive or a hopeless romantic, but I think if  you are lucky enough to find someone that you love, and they love you back,  you should do everything in your power to make it work - not dwell on your  differences; (3) the ending was somewhat unsatisfying. I'm not sure if this  is because I just didn't like what was going on in Raymond's head at the  end, or if the cryptic nature of the last few paragraphs threw me. Overall,  however,I think this is an enjoyable book well worth exploring.	2000-06-30
US	51073392	R33QB79U8PRYYS	068485449X	640173342	Lucy Crocker 2.0: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Warm, engaging novel about second thoughts &amp; second chances	Awash in perceived failure (several miscarriages, a workplace fiasco, her husband's affair), Lucy Crocker retreats to her father's wilderness cabin to sort out her life -- having first shipped her precocious 13-year-old  twins off on a canoe trip, and left a blistering I'm-leaving-you email for  her husband. Skillfully shifting point of view allows us to see how  everyone in the family confronts their demons -- the might-have-beens, the  mistakes, the rash choices, the regrets -- and ultimately triumphs.   Literate, charming, funny, warm and oh-so-real, this is a beach read with  brains. When you're finished, dive into Caroline Preston's first novel,  &quot;Jackie by Josie,&quot; which explores some of the same themes in a  different, yet also effective and engaging, way.	2000-06-27
US	51073392	R3UWESI8NFAB5Z	1573890081	934442884	Socks (Vogue Knitting on the Go)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Portable, varied selection with clear patterns	Although I wasn't very keen on the Babies volume of Vogue's Knitting on the Go series, I am very pleased with Socks. Having never made a sock before (albeit a fairly experienced knitter), my first effort -- a  &quot;very easy very vogue&quot; selection from this book -- was easy and  fast, with quite professional results. The instructions are clear, there  are good photos and charts, detailed information about yarn to enable  substitutions is provided, and a variety of patterns, sizes, styles and  difficulty levels are featured. And the book is portable and sturdy.	2000-06-09
US	51073392	RRGFM6SFPK8ZO	0312150601	240594756	Behind the Scenes at the Museum: A Novel	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Lives up to - and surpasses - its hype	The slightly surreal sound of this book - it begins with a woman narrating her own conception -made me fear this would be an annoyingly weird or obtuse book. I also was a little skeptical that the book could live up to  its positive reviews. I was delighted to discover that it is not, and it  does.<br />Atkinson effortlessly gets inside the head of protagonist Ruby  from, yes, conception to middle age. Interwoven with Ruby's story are the  stories of her female ancestors, viewed through the prism of contemporary  British history. (A thinking Englishwoman's Forrest Gump?) It's all here:  emotion, vivid description, gripping plot, characters that come alive,  humor, sly wit, and a truly original and fresh writing style. This is one  of those books that intrudes on your life, making you want to shove  everything aside so you can keep on reading it. At the same time, you dread  finishing it because then there won't be any more of it to read.	2000-06-02
US	51073392	R2MXY4XD9PN0YQ	0312262817	769899710	The Accidental Bride: A Romantic Comedy	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Lightweight, amusing read but  hardly Jane Austen	Janice Harayda obviously idolizes Jane Austen: Austen quotes preface each chapter, heroine Lily seeks guidance from and solace in Austen novels, and at times, Harayda's writing style seeks, rather self-consciously, to  imitate Austen's. Unfortunately, Jane Austen this book ain't. <br />There are  plenty of interesting things to say about the predicament of a woman swept  toward the altar by familial and societal forces that overwhelm her better  judgment, but Harayda just doesn't have the skill to elicit them. Over and  over again, she settles for the snappy, Cosmo-girl one-liner. Worse, her  characters are black and white cutouts, either all-good (everyone from New  York) or all-bad (everyone who never left Ohio). There is no complexity or  nuance there; for example, Lily's fiance Mark is so utterly nice and good  and perfect as to be unbelievable and completely uninteresting. Likewise,  her mother is so awful and carping and self-absorbed that that one wonders  why Lily even speaks to her at all. (Contrast, for example, Jane Austen's  characters, who exhibit their flaws as often as their virtues.) Harayda's  anti-Ohio fixation is so relentless and overblown as to overwhelm the  story; even the weather in Ohio (gun metal skies &amp; tornadoes) isn't as  good as the postcard-perfect sunny skies of the Big Apple. When the NYC  homeless man handed Lily a flower (instead of urinating on her feet, say,  as would happen in most of the five boroughs), I almost threw the book  against the wall in frustration. And I'm not even from Ohio!<br />The novel  does contain some amusing scenes and funny lines; the parody of a Martha  Stewart magazine is by itself worth the price of admission. And despite the  flaws described above, there is a sort of breezy charm that helps carry  things along.  If you keep your expectations low, and just want to while  away some time on the beach or stairmaster, you might give it a try.	2000-05-25
US	51073392	R26O4ZKR2XTJ09	0393047970	209598506	Second Hand: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An unexpected delight	Like a treasure unexpectedly found at a garage sale, this book hits you in the heart and makes you smile all day.  Charming, offbeat, self-effacing-ly ironic, with characters that are unconventional and very real, living  perhaps ordinary but not humdrum lives. Narrator Richard's musings on  consumerism, death, sex and a host of other topics are often hilarious and  always on the mark. Animals lovers and the squeamish, be forewarned: you  may want to skim the paragraphs which discuss Theresa's work at an animal  shelter, but this is a small price to pay for a delightful read.	2000-05-17
US	51073392	R3KF1V7WLKEZEN	0140274340	225815087	Mad House: Growing Up in the Shadow of Mentally Ill Siblings	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Perceptive memoir &amp; low-key self-help tool	Having &quot;acquired&quot; through marriage two family members with bipolar disorder, I have sought to educate myself about mental illness and its effect on the family. I found &quot;Mad House&quot; to be a perceptive  and instructive look at the secondary victims of mental illness: siblings  of the patient. The author's personal experiences as the sister of two  schizophrenics is interwoven with explanations of current scientific  research about serious mental illness as well as psychotherapeutic insights  about how the experience of growing up with a mentally ill sibling can  affect others in the household. The memoir-ish portions of the book bring  comfort in the form of knowing one is not the only person to have so  suffered (and mental illness is one of the last great bastions of shame,  secrecy and guilt left in our culture). The summaries of recent research  are great educational tools. And if you are struggling with personal issues  arising out of your experience as a sibling of a mentally ill person, then  the matter-of-fact explanations of common behavioral and emotional patterns  will give you insight -- self-help without the twelve steps or  touchy-feely-wallowing-in-my-angst element that can be off-putting. Be  advised that the book focuses on the special issues that siblings of the  mentally ill face (as opposed to parents, or children, or spouses, for  example) and the discussion does center on schizophrenia and related  disorders, with only a passing nod to bipolar disorder, depression and  other illnesses. But this skillfully written book contains plenty of  empathy and perception for anyone interested in the mental health field.	2000-05-09
US	51073392	R29PLNVIZB8NAB	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A good time to be had by all	I was quickly sucked into Ralph's Party, a tasty treat of a novel that focuses on a handful of London twenty- and thirty-somethings. New roommate Jem is the catalyst for change in the lives of her flatmates Ralph and  Smith; simultaneously we watch the lives of co-inhabitants of the same  apartment building evolve.  Reading about the characters is much like  getting to know a real person: you start with the facade and eventually  figure out the real deal, especially as each character reacts to unforeseen  events or emotional crises. If Jemima is a bit too cute, if the various  plot lines are tied up a bit too neatly, if the  good-characters-get-rewarded-in-the-end-while-bad-ones-get-punished version  of destiny is an idealized one, well, who cares? Pour yourself a nice glass  of Pinot Grigio and enjoy.	2000-05-06
US	51073392	R1M3TVPJ247YGY	0684135051	4614029	Knitting Without Tears: Basic Techniques and Easy-to-Follow Directions for Garments to Fit All Sizes	Books	5	266	273	N	Y	Indispensable fun for the serious knitter	I'd repeatedly read and heard about Elizabeth Zimmerman (or &quot;EZ&quot; as she was/is fondly known) but never read any of her books. I was, however, skeptical that her books could  be as wonderful as they were  reputed to be. The photograph on the cover of &quot;Knitting without  Tears&quot; did little to entice me; the sweaters looked, well, a bit dowdy  and boxy for my taste. Eventually I gave in and bought this book. Now I am  a believer. EZ won me over with her very first sentence: &quot;Most people  have an obsession; mine is knitting.&quot; Somehow she managed to take  knitting very seriously without ever taking herself very seriously. The  book is full of practical tips and tricks for improving your knitting,  conceptual ways to create your own patterns, and EZ's very decided opinions  about the craft (worth considering whether or not you agree with them all).  Best of all, anecdotes and humorous, often ironic commentary abound. Even  if you never knit a seamless sweater, you'll be glad you bought this book.	2000-05-06
US	51073392	R1HK8EFQNRG1S0	1882593324	742432080	Ready to Fall: A Novel	Books	1	17	21	N	N	Ready to fall . . . asleep	After scanning the book jacket, I began this novel, eagerly awaiting the &quot;thought-provoking and enormously entertaining&quot; adventures, the &quot;humor, poignancy, revelation ... [and] originality,&quot; the  &quot;surprise&quot; ending that were promised thereon. I'm still waiting.  The novel's format - the narrator's emails to a neighbor - felt corny and  stilted to me, like a gimmick without substance. Unlike &quot;Bridget  Jones&quot;, I never lost my awareness that I was reading a novel. Perhaps  a more skilled author would have been able to drop in sufficient background  information or plot development without it sounding so obvious or staged.  There wasn't much of a plot, or at least not an original one; woman is  married with kids, loses her identity, falls out of love with her husband,  is searching for some indefinable something. It didn't seem to me, though,  that she grew significantly as a character, or gained true insight (last  few pages notwithstanding). All she seemed to do was kvetch about her  husband (a thoroughly unlikeable man, as she describes him) and project her  neediness and lack of self-assertiveness onto some shadowly figure of a  neighbor. I finished the novel - it didn't take long - just to find out  whether she actually would have the guts to do something to change her  life, or at least whether she would figure out that her neighbor was as  much of a jerk as her husband. Phooey. After scanning the acknowledgements,  I realized that 3 of the 4 authors quoted on the back of the book are,  apparently, members of Ms. Cook's writing group. Might this be why such a  mediocre book attracted a publisher?	2000-05-02
US	51073392	R7QN1Y0K4EZIC	157076140X	814286239	Celtic Knits: Over 25 Designs for Babies, Children and Adults	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Gorgeous patterns and presentation in all sizes	This book is what my husband describes as &quot;knitter's pornography&quot;: I flip through the pages over and over, ogling the to-die-for designs and sighing with appreciative pleasure. The production  values are top notch -- beautiful photos, colored pages, innovative design  -- and give this a fresh, untraditional look, especially by  knitting-pattern standards. I can't wait to begin some of the designs,  which, as the title suggests, are strongly influenced by the Celtic  sensibility (e.g. lots of arans and cablework, tweedy yarns, sea and sky  colors). My practical side must warn that this book is not for the novice  knitter - most of the patterns involve textured stitching, cables and/or  colorwork that I think would overwhelm a beginner. And as with Bliss's more  recent works, a serious knitter wishes there were clearer pictures of the  finished designs, more measurements and drawings of the pieces, and perhaps  larger type (I'm only 35 so don't blame age for this!).  Overall, however,  a terrific and beautifully-produced book with designs in sizes for the  whole family.	2000-04-10
US	51073392	RBWHGNQ1CY04G	0684800284	765898730	Every Night Italian	Books	5	68	71	N	N	Delectable, quick and simple recipes	I received this book as a gift and have already made several recipes, to rave reviews. The instructions are refreshingly clear, with plenty of explanation and cross-references. The recipes tend to be the simple,  mouth-watering, almost rustic type, with fresh ingredients and fairly fast  cooking times. I especially like the fact that many of the recipes have a  different twist; the artichoke/potato gratin-ish casserole is a good  example of a simple yet unusual and incredibly delicious dish. Most of the  recipes are quick and simple enough to make on a weeknight after dinner,  although some require a lengthier cooking time (in a Clintonesque example  of verbiage, the title refers to preparation time, as opposed to  preparation and cooking time together. But this is spelled out at the  beginning of each recipe). A terrific addition to the library of any cook.	2000-04-04
US	51073392	R1BF35FE2XAKHQ	0312202512	273730140	Quick Baby Knits: Over 25 Quick and Easy Designs for 0-3 year olds	Books	4	101	101	N	Y	Simple and charming - with a few caveats	I'm a big Debbie Bliss fan, and this book features very typical Debbie Bliss designs: charming, classic sweaters for babies and children, using interesting details, lovely yarn and unusual colors. I've already made 2 of  the sweaters, which turned out beautifully. That said, I would point out  the following: (1) if you have other Bliss books, you may feel as I do that  she recycles too many of her patterns, changing only minor details or  colorways; (2) the book ought to be called &quot;Simple Baby Knits&quot;;  while the patterns aren't complex or terribly time-consuming, they also  aren't exceptionally fast. Only a few patterns use chunky yarn and bigger  needles which speed the knitting along. (3) the book needs more practical  aids to the knitter, such as clear photographs or sketches of the sweater,  and either diagrams or a list of dimensions so the knitter can make sure  the pieces are turning out as they should. I am a fairly experienced  knitter and didn't have trouble with the instructions for the sweaters I  made, but a beginner may need some more guidance. Overall, however, this is  a good introduction to Debbie Bliss styles. I'm happy that I bought it and  eagerly await the next Bliss book.	2000-03-31
US	51073392	RBELHSIEYPZ96	0395470307	861000459	SHEEP IN A JEEP	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Every toddler should have this charming book	Adorable illustrations, very clever and original rhyming text, and a funny story make this book a giggle-filled winner for the toddler set.	2000-03-22
US	51073392	R3P2QT1DWPLLQF	0140278575	462326024	London Holiday: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ya-ya sisterhood on Prozac	This pleasant if unremarkable novel feels a bit like it's been done before: childhood friends who grew up in the south get together to deal with their past ghosts and present lives. Throughout the book, I kept  having a sense of deja vu, as if I'd encountered similar scenes, or  characters, or plot lines before. The most memorable and original character  was the British landlady, Mrs. Smith-Porter, and chapter 1, devoted  entirely to her, is by far the best chapter in the book.<br />Which  illustrates a second major flaw: the uneven quality of its writing. How can  the same person who wrote this silly description of love/lust - &quot;She  felt dams breaking gently throughout her regions&quot; - also have written  this insight into vacationing - &quot;People often broke under the strain  of traveling for pleasure&quot;?<br />Unlike &quot;Yaya Sisterhood&quot; and  its ilk, this book takes a much gentler and less intense approach to the  main characters' troubles. The reader will find London tea, handsome titled  Englishmen, country gardens, double decker buses and faded antiques to  water down the nasty childhood memories or present emotional crises. Like a  finger sandwich or a piece of angel food cake, &quot;London Holiday&quot;  is sweet and pleasant enough - but hardly filling.	2000-03-22
US	51073392	R1K9E6K01UVL2S	0449911004	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Folksy antidote to Bridget Jones-dom	What is it about novels set in the midwest, with mostly women characters, that makes me want to use words like &quot;folksy&quot; and &quot;homespun&quot;? This novel is the story of 2 sisters who live in  Minnesota - their lives, loves and losses. And boy, do they have plenty of  losses! The overall feel of the book is bittersweet; just when a character  manages to achieve some level of happiness, WHAM! Fate intervenes and  knocks them down. Depending on your attitude toward life, you may find this  either incredibly depressing or very true-to-life. I must admit I was a  little misty by the last chapter of the book. If you like female bonding,  small-town America, nostalgia, and are ready for a change of pace from  single-young-woman, urban, obsessed-with-one's-weight-and-lovelife Bridget  Jonesdom, this book will provide an affecting, earnest, sometimes touching  antidote. Just don't expect a totally happy ending; this book certainly  isn't depressing enough to qualify as an Oprah selection, but a healthy  dose of heartbreak is administered along with the Toni perms.	2000-03-21
US	51073392	R2UGLH1EWMUJBZ	0871132583	109165277	The Tremor of Forgery (Highsmith, Patricia)	Books	2	4	13	N	Y	The tremor of boredom	I was completely underwhelmed by this book. The pace was excruciatingly slow, to the point where I found the book painful to read. I realize that the author was, presumably,intending to depict the aimless waiting that was the protagonist's life; and to capture the feeling of the tropical climate  and culture of late 60s Tunisia, but the effect was to put me to sleep and  to leave me longing for something interesting to happen. I also was not  particularly fond of the author's spare, often choppy writing style. When I  found myself thinking &quot;I ought to read another chapter of this book so  I can finish it and get on to something else,&quot; I gave up. I don't know  how it ended and frankly I don't care.	2000-03-20
US	51073392	R2XN98Z3WOUU7P	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Plot falters a bit at end, but hilarious &amp; insightful	Once again, Helen Fielding has made me laugh out loud, nod my head appreciatively, and inspired me to read passages out loud to anyone who will listen. &quot;Edge of Reason&quot; is a worthy successor to Bridget  Jones I: hilarious, insightful, entertaining. The plot does lose focus  toward the end with the introduction of a melodramatic Thailand twist. This  portion of the book is unbelievable and self-conscious - makes you aware  that Bridget is merely a character, rather than the very real person she is  elsewhere in the book. But this relatively minor flaw was far outweighed by  the pure, unadulterated pleasure I took in reading the book. Is this novel  the literary equivalent of a  &quot;chick flick&quot;? I don't think so; I  think there is more than enough substance and humor to the book that no  matter what your gender or marital status, you will enjoy it.	2000-03-11
US	51073392	R3VWVXW7RNHOQ2	0671038249	904075472	A Conspiracy of Tall Men	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Thriller/ conspiracy-theory satire  will keep you up nights	This book defies genre. It is at heart, a thriller in the manner of a Hitchcock man-against-dark-forces movie, but at the same time it is a satire of the 90s tendency to see conspiracies everywhere while at the same  time a chilling &amp; credible vision of one possible conspiracy. It is  also a well-written book with a lot of funny observations about our culture  &amp; insights into human relationships.<br />To say this book is like a bad  X-files episode is, I think, to miss the point - like criticizing Mel  Brooks' &quot;Young Frankenstein&quot; for being like a bad monster movie.  As satire, it necessarily takes the elements of the conspiracy thriller and  exaggerates them. What is so unique about this novel is that at the same  time as it skewers this paranoid mentality, it sucks you into believing  that the conspiracy played out in the book could/does really exist.<br />The  book has a very postmodern feel, so if you like your fiction to be more  traditional in writing style, this rapid-fire present-tense  perspective-shifting style may turn you off. Given the subject of the book,  I thought it worked.	2000-03-09
US	51073392	RIN0NIP66A1DB	0553581066	838101255	Neurotica	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Bedroom farce for the late 90s	As the title suggests, this novel explores the oft-interrelated themes of neurosis and sex -- and does so quite hilariously. The plot moves at warp  speed, with bizarre twists that somehow work and many bust-a-gut-laughing,  priceless scenes. The author has a nice ear for the psychological quirks  this is not a book for the prissy or squeamish. There are explicit sex  scenes (if you find words like clitoris unromantic, you won't like them)  and the dialogue is full of expletives, body parts, and language not fit  for those under age 18. And a large part of the humor revolves around sex.  Also, the book is very heavy on British slang, which can be distracting if  you're not used to it.  I heartily enjoyed the book, with that vaguely  guilty pleasure I get from reading Cosmo in the supermarket line or downing  a big bag of M&amp;Ms in one sitting.	2000-02-26
US	51073392	R30P2W5L3I10KQ	1573890111	742998909	Vogue Knitting on the Go: Baby Knits	Books	2	9	11	N	Y	A disappointment	I found the patterns in this book underwhelming. Perhaps my taste is just different, but when there are fresh and charming designs out by designers like Debbie Bliss and Jil Eaton, the patterns in this book seem ho-hum and  dowdy, and some, downright tacky. I can't imagine dressing my child in many  of them. I also would have preferred patterns that work up faster - bigger  needles, thicker yarns, less fussy designs. I expected better from Vogue.	2000-02-22
US	51073392	R2JOYA74H5Z9QS	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Slow in spots but worth sticking with	I loved Marian Keyes' other books, and by the end, loved &quot;Lucy Sullivan&quot; too. Keyes does a great job of capturing the Bridget Jones-esque lifestyle and man-quest of 20something women. Her characters  are believable. And the book is so darn funny! I laughed out loud a number  of times, and kept reading passages to my husband, who found them as  amusing as I did. This book does, however, have a tendency to ramble and  could have used another edit or two to tighten it up. (In particular,  conversations, especially nonsensical and ultimately annoying Gus-Lucy  conversations, went on way too long.)	1999-12-18
US	51073392	RHXA393B0UKSW	0312208871	895296597	Going to Pot	Books	3	2	6	N	N	The mug is only half-full (or half-empty)	I couldn't wait to read this novel, since the fly-leaf suggested it was the kind of book I'd gobble up.  Unfortunately, though the novel is diverting and occasionally affecting, my expectations were not met.  The  pacing and plotting are terrible: nothing happens in the first 2/3 of the  book, and everything happens in the last 1/3.  The unevenness makes the  later plot developments strain credulity. I didn't find any of the  characters particularly charming or likeable; Fliss is so annoyingly vague  and inept, Ivor is a cardboard cutout of the distracted English husband,  Tom is a stereotypic 80s go-go executive, and Martita is simply hateful.   And the author's attempt to compare cultures fell flat in my opinion; she  doesn't know nearly as much about the US and Americans as she thinks she  does (no Yank I know would call a tennis court a &quot;racquets  court,&quot; to use a semantic example).  Still, there were some amusing  moments and creative ideas.  My advice to Ms. Laurimore is get yourself a  more aggressive editor, and to the reader, wait for the paperback.	1999-11-24
US	51073392	R1UEK5HUZ1LYDK	0312190328	423311778	Wild Designs: A Novel	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	Charming light romance with some untraditional twists	Having enjoyed &quot;Stately Pursuits,&quot; I wasn't disappointed with &quot;Wild Designs.&quot; That the heroine has some &quot;unromantic&quot; traits from a traditional standpoint -- she is slightly older, divorced,  with 3 teenaged kids, no job and major money woes -- only made the story  more enjoyable.  Occasionally the British slang escaped me (e.g. what does  it mean to be &quot;Pommish&quot;?) and I thought Althea did altogether too  much sighing and bursting into tears when people left the room (the  constant self-denial for the sake of the children routine made her a bit  too martyrish) but overall a fun, funny, enjoyable book for those who are  sick of Oprah-book-club angst.	1999-11-12
US	51073392	R2WL6ERY4NKAYD	0449005569	474004755	Love: A User's Guide	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Fluffy and fun romance for the Cosmo girl in you	This novel is like &quot;Notting Hill&quot; with genders reversed -- and with a leading lady who is actually appealing (unlike Julia Roberts). The author's asides, like a hipper-than-thou Greek chorus, were cute, and  amusing and valid observations about life are sprinkled throughout.  The  cleverness and archness can almost be too much at times, so it's best not  to read in one sitting.  A dash of Joan Collins, a large helping of Bridget  Jones, a sprinkle of Katie Fforde, mixed together with the Cosmo &quot;I  can have it all&quot; sensibility.	1999-10-20
US	51073392	RYN6HQFRZYWPW	0156005646	233328922	The Answer Is Yes: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Sweet and uplifting without sappiness or religiousity	Leave your cynicism at the door, ignore the improbability of it all, and just enjoy this book.	1999-10-15
US	51073392	R1127BT840QAGM	0385314698	279544605	The Sixteen Pleasures: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Weaves disparate strands into an affecting comingofage story	After reading mixed reviews of this novel, I wasn't sure what to expect but perhaps this lack of expectations freed me to enjoy it. Hellenga takes various unrelated elements - book restoration, Italian travelogue, love  story, convent history, etc. - and blends them to create an interesting  and, at times, moving read. Flaws: 1) occasionally becomes too didactic,  with side detours that go on too long; 2) too loosely plotted, 3) sometimes  doesn't quite manage to hit the true voice of a woman.  The style of the  book reminds me of &quot;Girl's Guide to Hunting ..&quot; in that it feels  like a collection of connected short stories, with different points of view  and writing styles.  Some of the chapters are self-contained, maybe a  little too much so.  But overall, good writing and an unusual mix of  elements.	1999-10-08
US	51073392	R39UB9VX18Y6MY	0671535455	670221565	Hoopi Shoopi Donna	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful - and not just for Polish-Americans	I was knocked out by how wonderful this book was.  I literally could not stop reading it until I finished it. Suzanne Shea has a wonderful feel for 2d and 3rd generation Polish-Americans (of which I am one) and it makes for  a delightfully original setting.  The family dynamics were heartbreakingly  true to life, especially in the Polish-American culture.  But you don't  have to be Polish to enjoy the great writing and vivid characters.	1999-10-04
US	51073392	R2YDGABRZFATVE	0671027107	738976682	Lily Of The Valley	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Her best yet	Suzanne Shea keeps getting better with each book.  I loved this novel and once again found myself resenting anything or anyone who took me away from it.  This book does not focus so much on the Polish-American experience but  rather broader issues, like the definition of &quot;family&quot; and the  creative process.  Great writing, real characters, a telling eye for detail  -- all in all, a fabulous read.	1999-10-04
US	51073392	RJOUJH6BBKADB	0679456945	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Anne Tyler impersonating Elinor Lipman	I've loved all of Elinor Lipman's other books, but this one just wasn't as good.  I found the frequent shifts in point of view to be jarring, and because the reader is constantly getting inside the head of different  characters, she doesn't learn much of substance about any of them. I was  also less interested in the middle-aged characters, who seemed to be lifted  out of an Anne Tyler novel.  Elinor Lipman is a wonderful writer, though,  and this book is well-written.  Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if I  didn't loathe Harvey Nash as much (but the fact that I did says a lot about  the quality of the writing).	1999-10-04
US	51073392	R1GCYOC6EIHNPI	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A funny, wry look at one woman's breakup	A sassy, funny, ironic yet sweet look at the aftermath of a break-up.  The bare bones of the plot are anything but unusual:  husband has affair, leaves wife for other woman, wife learns to cope -- but the main  character's voice is so entertaining as she riffs on everything from  motherhood to oral sex to depression that you are utterly entertained.	1999-10-04
US	51073392	R7OGPNMX6Y0QS	0446673757	762557319	Mail	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pretty good but not up to the hype	I was a bit disappointed with this novel.  Though it got lots of rave reviews, I found the plot slow in parts. The writing was pretty good, although I found the frequent references to being a writer tiresome (e.g.  &quot;if I weren't a writer, I would say his eyes were as deep as  pools&quot; -- you ARE a writer so think of something better).  I am always  suspicious when the main character does an about-face in the last 40 pages  of the book, so the ending was a letdown.  But overall, I enjoyed reading  the book.  A light diversion, and the issue of class consciousness in the  US is an interesting one that hasn't been explored as often as it might be.	1999-10-01
US	51073392	R1VCTIY6CWEKBI	0312206763	694468513	Stately Pursuits	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A harlequin romance for British yuppies	This book reads like a Harlequin romance novel, and uses some of the same plot devices.  That is an observation, not a value judgment, however; the book was a quick, fun read that I enjoyed thoroughly.  I found the sex  scenes a little jarring and out of sync with the rest of the book's tone  but that's a minor criticism.	1999-10-01
US	51073392	R3VGP2RTPS50KZ	0385494505	517893800	In the Drink	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Tiresome, angst-ridden protagonist needs to get a life	Blecch!  I found the protagonist so unlikeable and such a loser that this novel just didn't do it for me.  Her life was utterly depressing and she didn't seem to be doing anything about it.  If you want an incisive and  incredibly funny book about addiction, try &quot;Rachel's Holiday,&quot; by  Marian Keyes.	1999-10-01
