US	51077294	RQWZ57T3WYOOK	0671552317	959120332	Shah's Last Ride	Books	2	3	3	N	N	THE VIEW FROM A DISTANCE	William Shawcross is a good reporter. But in this biography he faced one problem: he knew his subject only from a distance.<BR>His account of the Shah's illness and his final agonies is excellent because it is based on extensive interviews with the doctors who treated the exiled king.<BR>The rest of the book, however,suffers from insufficient research and analysis. <BR>Many of the Iranians interviewed by Shawcross told him either what he wanted to hear or what they wanted him to hear. He had no means of checking their claims by cross-examining other witnesses and/or digging into Iranian archives.(Obviously closed to him).<BR>Read this book as a medical account of the Shah's final days.    ( You learn a great deal about the type of cancer that finally killed the Shah!) But for a deeper analysis of the Shah's politics, and some speculation about his eventual place in history, go to Marvin Zonis's &quot; Majestic Failure.&quot; <BR>And if you want a critical, and at the same time sympathetic, Iranian view go to Amir Taheri's  &quot; The Unknown Life of the Shah&quot; which reads like a modern version of a Greek tragedy.<BR> I  also recommend the Shah's own &quot; Answer to History&quot; which, although self-serving and at times annoyingly dishonest,neverthelkess , provides much insight into the soul of that complex and misunderstood man.<BR>AN IRANIAN READER	2002-03-19
US	51077294	R2XZ5XPRTZFJAD	0679738010	71275954	Shah of Shahs	Books	1	7	34	N	N	FICTION  THAT  DOES  NOT SPEAK  ITS  NAME	This is a curious book. <BR>It is supposed to be about Iran and its last king, Muhammad Reza Shah Pahlavi. <BR>In fact, it is about everything except Iran and the Shah. The author, who claims to have spent some time in Iran, either saw nothing or imagined what he wished to see.<BR>The exercise may or may not be of literary value. But, even if taken as fiction, this book falls short of its immense pretensions. <BR>It is written in a pseudo-surrealistic language of the kind that was once fashionable in Parisian cafes, and is now the rage on some American campuses. Not a single character is properly portrayed, nor any situation developed to its full dramatic potenial. <BR>A confused, and confusing, syntax covers everything with a fog of misunderstanding.<BR>One ends up wondering why the Polish man ( SORRTY I CANNOT SPELL HIS NAME OFF-HAND, NO DISRESPECT!) wanted to write this book, except to pose as a practitioner of postmodernist prose and a peddlar of politically correct cliches.<BR>Fortunately, those interested in the life of the late Shah and Iran's turbulent politics have a  choice of other books. <BR>There is William Shawcross's &quot; The Shah's Last Ride&quot;, Amir Taheri's &quot; The Unknown Life of the Shah&quot; and Marvin Zonis's   <BR>&quot; Majestic Failure&quot; among others.<BR>Postmodernist obfuscation mayimpress some Ameircan undegraduates. Butthose interested in more serious hstory would stay away from this pretentious, litttle and ultimately sad book.<BR>A READER IN LONDON	2002-03-19
US	51077294	R21ZEON7XF3FF0	0226989283	862049079	Majestic Failure: The Fall of the Shah	Books	2	13	15	N	N	ONE AMERICAN'S VIEW OF THE SHAH	The author of this book is an American academic who visited Iran in the 1970s and wrote an interesting research paper on the political elite under the Shah.<BR>In \\" Majestic Failure: The Fall of the Shah\\", Zonis revises and expands some of his conclusions in that earlier research.<BR>Zonis seems to believe that the Shah's fall was almost solely his own fault , and not a result, at least in part, of the activities of the mighty coalition of forces ranged against his regime- from the Soviet bloc to radical mullahs to European and American leftists.<BR>Thus the entire book is structured in a way to show the Shah's regime as one programmed to end in disaster. It is as if , writing about a man who has been killed in a car crash, we blame him for having been unkind to his mother-in-law or having spent too much time on a golf course.<BR>A more balanced account of the Shah's eventual fall can be found in William Shawcross's \\" The Shah's Last Ride: The Betrayal of An Ally\\" which shows the callous way in which successive American administrations dealt with Iran and its leader.<BR>A more accessible, and ultimately more informative, account of the Shah's turbulent reign is offered in Amir Taheri's \\" The Unknown Life of the Shah\\". <BR>For an understanding of the Shah's foreign policy go to James Alban Bill's \\" The Eagle and the Lion\\".<BR>As far as this reveiwer is concerned there is still room for several more books on the Shah. A READER IN HAMPSTEAD	2002-03-19
US	51077294	R2FH48HK1AJ6ZD	0671610031	15361044	The Fall of the Shah	Books	1	15	19	N	N	SETTLING SCORES  WITH THE SHAH	The author of this angry little book worked as a diplomat for the Shah of Iran for almost 30 years. His older brother served as the Shah's Prime Minister for 13 years.<BR>And yet the book is a vitriolic attack against the Shah. <BR>The reason? <BR>In the last months of his reign the Shah decided to imprison the author's brother, Amir-Abbas Hoveyda,in a forlorn bid to silence the regime's violent critics. <BR>Amir Abbas Hoveyda was made a scapegoat. <BR>When the Shah left Iran with his wife and family he abandoned Amir-Abbas to the bloodthirsty mullahs who soon seized power. That was a cowardly act on the part of the Shah. The mulahs murdered Amir-Abbas Hoveyda along with tens of thousands of other Iranians who fell into their hands.<BR>Fereydoun Hoveyda cannot forget, or forgive, the betrayal of his borther. And that is understandable. <BR>The problem is that Fereydoun Hoveyda's emotions prevented him from writing a balanced book. His vilification of the Shah can only absolve, albeit only partly, the mullahs who actually murdered Amir-Abbas.<BR>Had the title of the book been &quot; Settling Scores with the Shah&quot;, I would have had no obejction.<BR>The Shah was certainly no angel. But nor was he the demon that Fereydoun Hoveyda pretends.<BR>For a more balanced biography of the Shah, and a less emotional account of Amir-Abbas Hoveyda's tragic fate, you could read William Shawcross's &quot; The Shah's Last Ride&quot; which remains a good example of the Western art of biography. <BR>For a more initimate, and Iranian, view you could read Amir Taheri's &quot; The Unknown Life of the Shah&quot;. Taheri knew the Shah well and was also regarded as a personal friend of Amir-Abbas Hoveyda.He has thus been able to remain fair to both men, although his bias, not to say hatred, of the Islamists colours his broader political judgment. A READER IN RICHMOND, SURREY, UK	2002-03-12
US	51077294	R1BOVFXS1C0EFU	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	3	4	6	N	N	LEWIS OPENS IMPORTANT DEBATE	Bernard Lewis is the dean of Orientalists, a species that, once maligned by ignorants such as Edward Said, is now back as an important element in the so-called \\" dialogue of civilisations.\\"<br />More importantly, Lewis is one of the few Western experts on Islamic world who have managed to stay out of the postmodernist vogue.<br />Lewis does not shy away from subjecting the Islamic world to pertinent criticism- a sharp contrast with apologists such as John Esposito and Roy Mottahedeh who try to explain, and explain away,Islam's ugliest aspects in the name of \\" respecting the other.\\"<br />Lewis's new book is based on a series of lectures and is written in a chatty language that makes it more accessible to a wider readership.<br />The only criticisms I can think of are two. First,  Lewis has unnecessarily confined himself to the arbitrary borders of the geographical Middle East. He has focused primarily on the Ottoman Empire and Persia, ignoring the rich and eventful encounter between the West and Islam in such regions as the Caucasus, Crimea and Central Asia which, though not the heartland of Islam, played a crucial cultural role in the 19th and early 20th centuries.<br />My second criticism is that Lewis has left out the Turkish, Persian and Arab thinkers of the late 20th century, people who created the modern literature of the Islamic world and raised the issue of Islam's relations with a largely Western-made world in serious, rather than polemical, terms.<br />Thus Lewis leaves one side of the story untold.<br />Those interested could read the works of people like Mirza Fath-Ali Akhundzadeh,Mirza Agha Khan Kermani, Ahmad Kasravi, Taha Hussein, Talebov, and Muhammad Iqbal. Among more recent Muslim authors I can recommend the Egyptian Fouad Zakarria, the Iranian Amir Taheri, the Syrian Bassam Tibi and the Iraqi Kenan Makiyah among others. Some of their books are available in a number of Western languages, including English. They can help round up the important debate that Lewis offers us. A READER IN BRITAINoffers us. A READER IN BRITAIN	2002-03-12
US	51077294	RJCDZKCRHS104	185649411X	519918432	A Fundamental Fear: Eurocentrism and the Emergence of Islamism (Critique Influence Change)	Books	2	10	25	N	N	BLAMING THE VICTIM	Using the fashionable lanugage of Western academia, the author tries to explain Islamic violence by blaming &quot; Eurocentrism&quot;. This is a familiar argument:because the Europeans, and by extenstion the United States which is seen by the fundamentalistS as part of &quot; the West&quot;, colonised some Muslim countries in the 19th centuries, Islamic fundamentalists have the right to kill Europeans and Americans in this century.<br />The probloem with this post-modernist, post-structuralist reading of history is that it abolishes ethics and elevates victimhood, real or imagined, into the sole yardstick for human behavior.<br />Those interested in a better understanding of Islamism which has declared war on the West, inclduinhg through suicide attacks and bacteria-laden letters, had better look elsewhere. I suggest books by Anthony J. Dennis, Amir Taheri, Fereydoun Hoveyda and Morgan Norval. <BR>I gave the book two stars because it provides an insight into how apologists for fundamentalism use every trick in the academic book to explain what is not justifiable. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-10-17
US	51077294	R7ZX6SNA0Z0FF	0091734584	193554429	NEST OF SPIES: America's Journey to Disaster in Iran	Books	5	14	16	N	N	WHY DO SOME PEOPLE HATE THE AMERICANS SO MUCH?	Want to know why some people, especially in th Muslim countries, hate the Americans so much? <BR>Read this book. <BR>Had American leaders, and the public in general, read this book when it came out almost a decade ago, they would , perhaps, not be as surprised as they are today by the sudden realisation that there are so many people &quot; out there&quot; who seethe with hatred for the American &quot; Great Satan&quot;.<BR>The book focuses on the experience of the Iran-US relatoionship. But its conclusions could be valid for many other Muslim countries. <BR>It shows how the US diplomatic machine, the CIA and the successive administrations failed to analyse and absorb information that was available to them, thus walking into one trap after another.<BR>The experience led to the seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979 and the holding of the American hosatges for 444 days. That event showed that the US could be attacked and humiliated with impunity. <BR>In the two decades that followed almost 1000 US citizens, including some 300 Marines, on peacekeeping mission in Beirut, were murdered by Islamic fundamentalists. The crescendo, of course, was reached with the attack by the bin Laden gang on New York and Washington on 11 September 2001.<BR>The book incldues astonishing secret documents seized from the US embassy in Tehran, showing how Washington knew everything but understood nothing.<BR>One episode narrated concerns a night tour, complete with red carpet reception, organised at the White House in Washington for the son of a senior Iranian cleric -cum-politician who had just organised the kidnaping of 20 Americans, and the murder of two of them, in Beirut. And that was during the Ronald Reagan administration when America supposedly walked tall and hit back when hit.<BR>It is a sad story. <BR>The US went to Iran with noble intentions, helped that country beat off a threat from Stalin, and financed the rebuilding of the Iranian economy. In the end, however, the reward for the US was hatred and murder.<BR>Americans must ask whether their leaders are not committing the same mistake in other countries today?	2001-10-17
US	51077294	R3JQ0GH7V4RNOY	0965121313	906483839	Triumph of Disorder: Islamic Fundamentalism, the New Face of War	Books	1	14	30	N	N	OVERSIMPLIFICATION	In the wake of the 11 September tragedies in New York and Washington, it is no surprise that Americans would want to know more about Islamic terrorism.<BR>But it would be wrong to oversimplify a complex issue. This book is such an oversimplification. It draws heavily on two previous books: one is Anthony J. Dennis's &quot; The Rise of the Islamic Empire and the threat to the West&quot; which came out six years ago and the other is Amir Taheri's &quot; Holy Terror: Inside the World of Islamic Terrorrism&quot; which appeared 12 years ago.<BR>Both those books offer a far deeper, and fairer, analysis of the phenomenon. They are also free of the obvious hatred that Norval has for all Arabs and Muslims. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-10-16
US	51077294	R1V7J80K39LBF5	0674291409	741147063	The Failure of Political Islam	Books	1	13	43	N	N	WHOSE FAILURE?	Has Islamic fundamentalism really failed? <BR>Well, in September 2001 it struck at the heart of New York and Washington and is now at war with the United States in Afghanistan.<BR>No need to travel to any Muslim country. Just have a look at the streets in any major Western city, New York itself for example. You will see women wearing the &quot; hijab&quot;, thekind off headgear that symbolsies Islamic fundamentalism. This kind of headgear did not exist in Islam until a few years ago when the fundamentalists began to impose themselves on Muslim communities, first in Iran, then in the whole of the Middle East, and eventually even in Europe and the United States. Also lok for the beards that are specially designed to indicate the owner's attachment to the radical fundamentalist version of Islam.<BR>Go also to mosques, including in New York and Washington, and listen to the Friday sermons to find out how fundamnetalism has imposed itself, through a mixture of terror and bribery, driving out the traditional, moderate versions of the faith.<BR>Is fundamentalism dead when it cuts the throats of an average of 10 Algerians each day? Has fundamentalism failed when it has managed to silence everyone in the Muslim world?<BR>To understand the real situation the reader would do well to  find a copy of Amir Taheri's &quot; Holy Terror: Inside the World of Islamic Terrorism&quot; which tells us all we need to know about the background of the recent tragedies, and from a Muslim's point of view. I also recommend Anthony J. Dennis's book &quot; The Rise of the Islamic Empire and The Threat to the West&quot; which studies the issue from a Western point of view. A READER IN LONDON	2001-10-16
US	51077294	R1I9XNK9C8CVOG	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	2	26	35	N	N	A NAIPAULIAN APPETISER	Until the 11 September 2001 tragedies in New York and Washington many would have found it possible to treat the issue of Islamic terrorism and fundamentalism in general as a suitable topic for dinner table conversation: The Muslims are an odd bunch, they do funy things, are fearful of their womenfolk, grow those crazy beards and so on!<BR>V.S. Naipaul wrote his book in the spirit of dinner table anecdotes, a traveller's tale full of colourful accounts about exotic places and people.<BR>Now, however, the reader, especially if he or she is American, needs a deeper attempt at understanding a faith that has been turned into a killing machine by fanatics who have hijacked its name. <BR>The subject has been treated in works by other more qualified writers including Olivier Roy, Amir Taheri,Dariush Shayegan, and Bruno Etienne. Roy and Etiennne have studied the religious underpinnings of the Islamic terror movement while Taheri provides a political analysis of the phenomenon that remains unequaled to this day. Shayegan, for his part, looks at it through the eyes of the philosopher with fantastic results.<BR>Naipaul's book of reportage should be considered an appetiser. The real meal is provided by others. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-10-12
US	51077294	R1B66K9YMT8PL6	0671725114	924733587	In the Name of God: The Khomeini Decade	Books	1	5	11	N	N	WHY AMERICANS FALL FOR TERRORISTS?	I decided to have a fresh look at this book which I had read years ago. <BR>The reason was 11 September 2001, the day Islamist terrorism pulled off its biggest coup against the United States. <BR>The book is an example of efforts by  some American media people to present a rosy picture of the Islamist terrorist movements to the American people.<BR>Ms Wright, a long-time admirer of the late Ayatollah Khomeini, describes the whole of the 1980s, and a bit of the 1990s, too, as &quot;the Khomeini decade&quot;, ignoring such historic events as the end of the Cold War and the disintegration of the Communist empire. She invites the reader not only to swallow Khomeini's mad ideology of &quot; Holy War&quot; but to admire and love it in the name of revolution. <BR>She repeats the Islamists' line that the terror and oppression that they have unleashed against their  people and , as we saw on 11 September, against other peoples too, is divinely inspired.<BR>Ms. Wright, in effect, tells the Americans that Khomeini, acting in the name of God,was right in executing 100,000 Iranians , provoking a war with Iraq that claimed one million lives, seizing over 40 Americans hostage in Lebanon, killing hundreds of American soldiers and civilians in a string of terrorist operations throughout the 1980s, and holding Iran's religious minorities, especially Jews, Bahais and Sunni Muslims captive as second-class citizens.<BR>I have never lived in America and thus cannot answer some  simple questions: Why is it that so many American media people become fascinated with vicious foreign despots and terrorists? <BR>How can anyone write about Khomeini without showing the readers that he was a monster? <BR>How could an Americanm, born and raised in a democratic society, believe that fanatical mullahs who claim to own the only truth possible can ever understand human rights and develop a civilised society?<BR>The ayatollah asked children to spy on their own parents. <BR>He sent at  least 30,000 Iranian children and teenagers on minfields on the border with Iraq to die to open a path for his Revolutionary Guard. He coined the phrase &quot; America is the Great Satan&quot; and called on Muslims to wage &quot; Jihad&quot; ( Holy War) against the United States.His dictum : &quot; American Cannot Do A Damned Thing!&quot; is isncribed on the walls of the terrorist camps in the Sudan, Lebanon, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan. <BR>On 11 September 2001 Khomeinism came to New York and Washington, albeit in its Arab &quot; Afghan&quot; version.<BR>People like Ms. Wright should know that what goes round comes  round. If you justify the massacre of Iranians by Islamist terror gangs do nto be surprised when the tragedy comes to your home- one day.<BR>Ms Wright does not tell her readers that the same Islamist ideology that produced the 11 September 2001 tragedy had already been rehearsed in Iran when the Khomeinists burned 600 people alive in the Rex Cinema in Abadan in 1978, simply to punish them &quot; in the name of God&quot;. Nor does she speak of the hundreds of Iranian woemen who have had their faces disfigured by Khomeinist Hezballah gangs throwing acid at any woman not observing the strict &quot; hijab&quot; ( Islamic headgear) rules. That<BR>Ms Wright should don the Khomeinist &quot;hijab&quot; whe she travels to the Islamic Republic may be understandable because she needs to get visas and interviews with the mullahs. What is dangerous is that the &quot; hijab&quot; seems to have gone inside her head as well, preventing her from seeing, and reporting, the abomination of Islamist terrorism. Nor does she tell her readers that the overwhelming majority of Muslims reject Islamism as a fraudulent ideology develpoped by power hungry men like Khomeini, Mullah Muhammad Omar and Osama Bin Laden.<BR>I don't know if Ms. Wright has lost any closde relatives and friends in the 11 September terror operations. But I have lost many relatives and friends, enough to fill a whole graveyard. Some were as young as 11 years of age, others as old as 96. They were teachers, writers, researchers, shopkeepers,musicians, poets, civil servants, housewives- people from all walks of life. Khomeini killed them all because they opposed his Islamist tyranny, the same ideology that Osama Bin Laden is propagating from his Al Qaeda hideout in Afghanistan today. He killed them all in the name of God, to be applauded by Ms. Robin Wright and her brood in the American media.<BR>Today, there are at least 25,000 political prisoners in the Khomeinist prisons ( according to Amnesty International), all in the name of God.<BR>Please accept this as a cry from the heart: I feel the pain of the American people in their terrible bereavement because as an Iranian I have seen my homeland shattered and my people martyrised , in the name of the same brand of Islamist terrorism that struck New York and Washington, for the past 22 years.<BR>Ms Wright should have subtitled her apologia of Khomeinism differently, perhaps as: In the Name of Satan.<BR>An Iranian In Britain	2001-10-01
US	51077294	R2Y7FUWUSYQ8H7	0936347570	225071164	The Diaries of Assadollah Alam	Books	1	12	20	N	N	AN INFLATED EGO GETS A RIDE	Although the book is presented as a diary it soon becomes clear that it is heavily edited, and partly re-written or re-arranged by the editor to make some former aides of the Shah look better than they should and some others worse than they deserve.<BR>The book reveals the illusions of Assadallah Alam,the semi-educated  son of a tribal chieftain who rose to become Court Minister under the late Shah of Iran. <BR>The diaries reveal that Alam's principal function was to act as confidant and confessor ( for private matters only) to His Imperial Majesty ,and for making sure that the imperial cot was redamselled at suitable intervals. Nearly a quarter of the diaries deal with the Shah's alleged sexual indiscretions  most of which were organised by Alam. Amateurs of juicy scandals concerning royals would find quite a bit to chew upon in these diaries.<BR>The court minister tries to inflate his importance as a policymaker in a system which had marginalised him for years. In fact the court minister did not have a seat in the Cabinet and was never briefed by Cabinet members on any issue. This was a source of resentment that fanned the flames of Alam's hatred for the Shah's long-serving Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveyda. To keep Alam happy, the Shah assigned occasional semi secret missions to him, especially in dealings with the Americans, the British and the Israelis. But the diaries make it clear that none of these missions were of much consequence. Nor did they affect governmental policy in any sigificant manner. They were designed to foster Alam's illusion that he was still a key player in Iranian politics long after he had been confined to the limited world political tepidarium of the royal palace. Alam,<BR>of course, used his position and contacts to further the business interests of his vast network of friends and partners.<BR>By the end of his life he had amassed a vast fortune, a far cry from his modest beginnings in the dusty mud village of Birjand close to the Afghan frontier.<BR>One interesting feature of the diaries is the crude reporting of some of the remarks tyhat the Shah made about prominent Iranian politicians and, in some cases, even foreign heads of state and other dignitaries. These remarks show that the Shah had gone almst mad with his own ego-tripover the top with his megalomania part of which rubbed onto his court minister.<BR>One big problem with the way these diaries are presented is that the original is not available for examination by other scholars. Nor does the editor provide a copy of the original, through a public library or institution for example, so that the slected translated bits can be checked against the original entries.<BR>A READER IN LONDON	2001-10-01
US	51077294	R10OCRZHMXT42P	0889224439	748713823	Takeover in Tehran: The Inside Story of the 1979 U.S. Embassy Capture	Books	1	18	27	N	N	CRIME PRESENTED AS POLITICAL ACTION	Under the Iranian Criminal Code( Article 62/11) the holding of hostages is a crime punishable by up to 15 years imprisonment and, if it leads to the death of the hostage, by capital punishment.<BR>Thus the gang of fanatics who raided the US embassy compound in Tehran and held its diplomats hostage in 1979 must all be considered as criminals under the laws of their own country to start with. They may, of course, want to explain their action. But that can only be done in a proper court, in the framework of a proper trial and not in a cheap, shabbily written pamphlet as this one. Ms. Ebtekar's little pamphlet, full of hatred as it is for the United States and the American people, in no way diminishes from the gravity of the crime that she and her fellow gang members committed.<BR>The problem in the Western democracies, notably the United States, is that one always finds individuals who try to  <BR>\\" understand\\", \\" explain\\" and, ultimately justify the most heinous of crimes. This is why serial killers on death row produce best-selling memoirs, ghost-written of course, and rapists are allowed to explain and justify their behaviour by reference to childhood grievances and other excuses.<BR>Ms Ebtekar's \\" ghost\\" has performed a similar task: trying to explain the unexplainable, jusify the unjustifiable.<BR>What would Ms Ebtekar say if someone held her hostage, blindfolded her and every day, for 444 days, threatened to kill her simply because of disagreements with this or that aspect of the policies of the mullahs who dominate Iran? Who gave Ms. Ebtekar the right to steal so much of the life of 53 decent, peaceful and humane individuals? Who will compensate for the lives shattered by Ms. Ebtekar's crime, and console the affected families?<BR>What is truly astonishing is that Ms Ebtekar, now a middle-aged lady and an assistant to the mullah who acts as president in Tehran, continues to stick to the prejudices and misconceptions that led her to the crime of hostage-taking inher 20s. She shows that 22 years later she has learned nothing. Worse still she announces that she would, if need be, commit the same crime again.<BR>...When Ms. Ebtekar and her associates committed their crime, the late Ruhallah Khomeini, their ultimate gang leader, announced his notorious phrase: \\" America Cannot Do A Damn Thing!\\" He was proved right. Nothing happened to the hostage-takers. In fact, they were rewardd by becoming ministers, amabassadors and vice-presidents in the government of the mullahs. Some like Ms. Ebtekar even became authors!<BR>The political Mafia of which Khomeini was the godfather continued its criminal anti-American activities for the following two decades. In 1983 it organised suicide attacks in Beirut that led to the death of 258 American Marines, in their sleep, and almost 50 employees of the US embassy. That was followed by the seizure of 22 American citizens as hostages. Two, William Buckley and Bob Higgings were murdered in cold blood. Again, nothing happened to the criminals.<BR>Is it a surprise that Osama Bin Laden's gang also believe that American Cannot Do A Damn Thing?<BR>And hear this: one of Ms. Ebtekar's hostatge-taking associates, named Saeed Hajjarian, was shot and seriously injured last year in one of the occasional score-settling gun fights that take place within the Tehran politico-criminal Mafia. To save his life, Hajjarian was flown to the United States where he underwent surgery and treatment and was saved from certain death. This is the America that Ms. Ebtekar so passionately hates! A READER IN LONDON, ENGLAND	2001-09-29
US	51077294	R8TCGD24BPY1L	1889999091	4777466	Jesus in the Qur'an: His Reality Expounded in the Qur'an	Books	1	14	28	N	N	ISLAM ACCORDING TO ALGAR	Algar's slim pamphlet is based on a preposterous premise : He claims that since the four gospels in the Bible are unreliable, the only true source on Jesus is the Muslim holy book the Koran! The reason? Algar claims that the Koran is actually the word of God  while the gospels manifestly are not. Algar is, of course, entitled to his religious beliefs which we must all respect. But to pass religious belief as scientific fact is a disservice to both religion and science. But even then Algar does a poor job of showing  the picture of Jesus as drawn by the Koran. It is as if Algar has difficulty understanding some Arabic words and terms the meanings of which have been altered over the past 14 centuries. He might, of course, claim that the Koran, being the Word of God, is not bound by the laws of semantics and will not undergo any alteration of meaning. But the fact is that the Jesus that Algar draws is a stranger to me as one who has been reading the Koran since childhood, that is to say for more than half a century. Algar shrouds Jesus's life with miracles and declares his existence as a mystery. These are precisely the terms that Islam rejects. Islam shuns both miracles and mysteries. Unable to back his claim with direct citations from the Koran, Algar has recourse to the hadith which can never be established as authentic pointers todoctrinal certainty. Like all new converts to any religion, Algar tries to be more enthusastic than any traditional Muslim. But the truth is that Islam will reap no benefit from this type of cheap propaganda. Ignoring science in order to promote the faith is one practice that Islam has never encouraged. Professor Algar would render more service to Islam if he would put some distance between himself as a believer and his position as a scholar and teacher. We Muslims do not ned to belittle the beliefs of others in order to promote our own religion. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-08-04
US	51077294	R2SUUTNYTS6KGM	0275969967	16331835	The Hidden Meaning of Mass Communications: Cinema, Books, and Television in the Age of Computers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	WONDERFUL ENTERTAINTMENT	Don't seek any academic insights from this book. This is a piece of pure entertainment, full of memories and anecdotes that can  brighten up a hundred dinner tables over the years. Hoveyda was a founder of France's snootiest film review, the Cahiers du Cinema, but writes with the ease and wit of a free spirit. While recalling his friendship with many of the innovative film-makers of the last century, Hoveyda also debunks some of the myths about the New Wave and independent cinema. A READER IN LONDON	2001-07-27
US	51077294	R26RW28229SU56	027595837X	253667977	The Broken Crescent: The "Threat" of Militant Islamic Fundamentalism	Books	3	3	3	N	N	AN EASY MANUAL TO  ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISM	This book by a former Iranian diplomat deserves far more attention than it has received. It offers a very readable survey of the latest literature available on Islamic fundamentalism in a number of languages. Hoveyda draws heavily on the writings of several European experts on Islamic fundamentalism including Olivier Roy, Maxime Rodinson, Amir Taheri, Bruno Etienne and Gilles Kepel, whose works may not be readily available to the American public. Hoveyda's conclusions may seem pessimistic. Roy and others have shown that Islamic fundamentalism is on the decline and, a decade from now, would not represent a major political force in any important Islamic country. This, however, does not mean that &quot; the beast&quot; of fanaticism could not raise its head here and there at some future point. A READER IN LONDON	2001-07-26
US	51077294	R1YWRGO4K09QLJ	027595837X	253667977	The Broken Crescent: The "Threat" of Militant Islamic Fundamentalism	Books	3	8	9	N	N	AN EASY MANUAL TO  ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISM	This book by a former Iranian diplomat deserves far more attention than it has received. It offers a very readable survey of the latest literature available on Islamic fundamentalism in a number of languages. Hoveyda draws heavily on the writings of several European experts on Islamic fundamentalism including Olivier Roy, Maxime Rodinson, Amir Taheri, Bruno Etienne and Gilles Kepel, whose works may not be readily available to the American public. Hoveyda's conclusions may seem pessimistic. Roy and others have shown that Islamic fundamentalism is on the decline and, a decade from now, would not represent a major political force in any important Islamic country. This, however, does not mean that &quot; the beast&quot; of fanaticism could not raise its head here and there at some future point. A READER IN LONDON	2001-07-26
US	51077294	R307YTIPAK0X40	1587219735	694792761	Behind the Tall Walls: From Palace to Prison	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A HUMAN VOICE AGAINST AN INHUMAN SYSTEM	All those who want to know the extent of the tragedy that the Islamic revolution has caused in Iran should read this book. Here the story of one family becomes the hsitory of a whole nation in its darkest years. The mullahs wrecked Azar Aryanpour's life and scattered her family all over the world. But she has been able to rebuild her life and , like more than four million other Iranians who had to leave their homes, has achieved succes and serenity.A great lesson in human endurance which shows that even the most inhuman systems cannot silence the human voice. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-07-26
US	51077294	R36UVOJYVMX3YH	186064290X	382480859	Musaddiq and the Struggle For Power in Iran	Books	1	16	47	N	N	CHARMED BY THE OLD DOCTOR	Katouzian is a British university teacher of Iranian origin with megawatts of ill-concealed passion for Muhammad Mussadeq, an aristocratic politician who briefly served as Iran's prime minister in the 1950s. This is a book written by an enthusiast about his idol. It is thus impossible to treat it as a work of scholarship. Katouzian wants us to believe that whatever Mussadeq did was wise, noble and patriotic while whatever Mussadeq's political rivals did was ignoble, cowardly, conspiratorial and treacherous. This is simply too hard to swallow. Another problem is Katouzian's language which is often paralysed by jargon and at times becomes farcical as a result of his efforts to impress the reader with the choice of apparently difficult words. Although Mussadeq was a minor figure in Iran's long history he still deserves a full, unbiased and scientific biography. A READER IN LONDON.	2001-07-26
US	51077294	R2YDM74CJ58F9C	0452275636	69129430	The Iranians: Persia, Islam and the Soul of a Nation	Books	1	10	11	N	N	FACTUAL ERRORS, FICTITIOUS ASSERTIONS	This is a strange book. In its first part it offers a fast reading of the long history of Iranian peoples ( yes, in plural because the Iranian family is broader than is normally assumed), often based on already existing books. In the second part the writer poses as philosopher, ethnologist, sociologist, psychologist and literary critic and, above all, historian. She divided Iran's contemporary history into three neat categories: nationalism, monarchism and Islamism.  The book is marred by factual errors that more dilligent editing would have detected and corrected. What is more serious, however, is the fictitious assertions the author makes. For example, she presents the late Ayatollah Khomeini as an Iranian nationalist who supposedly kissed the Persian soil on his return from exile. Such a move would have been anathema to Khmeini who regardsed nationalism as a form of idolatry. In fact, Khomeini banned the word &quot; mellat&quot; ( nation in Persian) and replaced it with &quot; umma&quot;, an Arabic word which dentoes the religious community. Khomeini was a pan-Islamist who rejected the Western notion of nationalism. This is why he abolished the Iranian national emblem of lion and sun which symbolised a synthesis of ancient Iran ( represented by the sun) and Shiite Muslim Iran represented by the lion which recalls Imam Ali Ibn Abi-Taleb. In other words Khomeini wanted to go even beyond Shiism in order to promote himslef as leader of a pan-Islamist movement.   When it comes to an analysis of political events in the past 50 years or so,The author repeats the cliches that have been in circulation for decades. A serious history of the Iranian peoples remains to be written. And when it is Ms MacKay's book would be useful in telling the historian what not to do. AN UNHAPPY READER	2001-07-06
US	51077294	R3UQ4W84O9NZOB	0815605544	91036510	A Cup of Sin: Selected Poems (Middle East Literature In Translation)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	PERSIAN  GHAZAL  AT  ITS  BEST	Just a generation ago the Persian sonnet ( ghazal) was regarded as dead and buried as  a poetic form. Now, and thanks to Simin Behbahani, the ghazal is not only alive but rejuvenated. Ms. Behbahani shows that the most modern themes could still be effectively and beautifully handled by a poetic form that dates back to almost 11 centuries ago, making &quot; modern Persian&quot; the oldest language of the world still in daily use. Ms. Behabahani was one of few poets of her generation who refused to fall for the fashionable forms of poetrty, mostly imported from France and propagated by public relations masters such as trhe late Ahmad Shamlou. She avoided vers libre and prose-poems and other gimmicks and concentrated on retooling the Persian classical prosody in the service of new needs and feelings. She has never looked back. Behbahani is one of the most significant poets writing in any language today. She deserves to be read and re-read. What we need is more translations of her work not only in English but also in other major languages. A READER IN ENGLAND	2001-07-03
US	51077294	R2IEFT7FZWG47C	0722183321	156901718	Holy Terror	Books	4	15	15	N	N	TO KILL AND TO DIE FOR ALLAH	I got hold of a copy of this book in a secondhand bookshop the other day. I think it should be reissued. It is the most succicnt account of the complex processes that produce someone, usually a teen-ager or young man, who is prepared to kill and to die in the name of Allah. The conventional wisdom is that this or that kind of religious terror is due to this or that political issue. In general this is true. But the author shows that terror is an integral part of any fanatical attachment to a doctrinal system. <BR>The only reason I don't give this book five stars is that it reads like a who-is-who os Islamic terror up to the 1990s. Since then new names have been appeared. May be they will be included and studied in a new edition. <BR>At a time the book was written it was the late Ayatollah Khomeini and the mullahs of Tehran who symbolised terror in the name of Islam. Today it is the turn of Osama Ben Laden and the Taliban mullahs in Afghanistan. But the psychological processes that leade to terror arte the same. A READER IN LONDON	2001-07-01
US	51077294	R3T1NM0MVUD5GW	0375706305	574735145	The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran	Books	1	45	62	N	N	APOLGIA  FOR THE MULLAHS	There are always reporters ready to curry favour with despots in exchange for visas and interviews. And there has been a long line of American reporters who became fascinated by 20th century dictators. John Reed admird Lenin and Edgar Snowe was fascinated by Mao. People have forgotten that William Randolph Hearst initially admird Mussolini and Hitler. To be sure Ms Wright is not in the same league. But her fascination for the mullahs is as disconcerting. Some examples: she tells us that the status of women in Iran is better than in other Muslim countries. But she does not tell us that Iranian women were better off before the mullahs seized power. Iranian women were present in the parliament, the Cabinet, and all insitutions, including the armed forces from the 1960s onwards. Half of all university undergraudtes were women. Khomeini tried to push women out but failed. Another example: Ms Wright pretends that the mullahs created the Iranian film industry which has been successful in many countries. The fact is that Iran's film industry was born in 1903 and Iranian films were present on the international stage, including major festivals, from the 1960s onwards. Ms Wright also cites the presence of religious minorities in Iran as a plus for the mullahs. But religious minorities have existed in Iran since the dawn of history. The first Jews arrived in Iran with Queen Esther some 2200 years ago. The first Christian church in the world is located in Iran with a Christian community that dates back to the first two decades of Christianity. The mullahs tried to destroy these communiteis and failed. Iranian civilisatioon and culture have existed since at least 7000 years ago and what they have to offer the world is in spite of the mullahs not because of them. More ridiculous is Ms. Wright's peddling of &quot; Islamic democracy&quot;, an oxymoron if there ever was one.  To be sure there is voting in Iran. But just as there can be no democracy without voting, there can be votingwithout democracy. Voting is meaningful if people can use it to change policies and governments. In Iran voting is designed to confirm the regime and its options. All candidates are chosen by the government and their success must be approved by the auhtorities, notably the security services.The tragi-cmoical Khatami experiment ahs shown that voting has no impact on Iranian policies. Ms. Wright forgets the 100,000 or more people executed by the mullahs and the fact that half of the world's political prisoners are in Iran. She does not tell her readers why some 4.5 million Iranian have fled their uomeland since her dream    &quot; Islamic system&quot; was established. ( There are more Iranian doctors in the US than in Iran itself!)There is also no mention of women who are murdered by being stoned to death in public as a punishment for sexual peccadilloes. Ms. Wrighht belongs to the race of return-ticket revolutionaries: those from wealthy western nations who compensate their  boredom by getting excited about the revolutions of other, lesser, mortals in remote countries. A READER IN LONDON	2001-07-01
US	51077294	R3RTDO3H2RI8KO	0312264909	672566972	Khomeini: Life of the Ayatollah	Books	1	15	23	N	N	a hymn in praise of the ayatollah	This is a hymn in praise of the late Ayatollah Ruhallah Khomeini, the man who led the 1979 revolution in Iran and subsequently turned the country into a base for international terrorism. Moin describes Khomeini as &quot; a great Islamic philosopher and scholar.&quot; The truth is that Khomeini was a second rate mullah with boundless political ambitions. This can be ascertained by a reference to his books- or rather silm pamphlets. These are written in a gramatically-challenged Persian with copious injections of Arabic malapropisms. There is nothing remotely philosophical about the diatribte that Khomeini distills. Attempts at turning Khomeini something of a saint did not start with Mr. Moin's efforts. Nor will Moin's panegryic be the last. The Islamic Republic in Tehran has been spending vast sums of money trying to manufacture such an image. The interested reader, however, will need go no further than examining Khomeini's own writings, including scores of speeches he made before and after he seized power. Some of these have been translated into English by Hamid Algar, a leading admirer of Khomeini. A few others are included in &quot; The Spirit of Allah: Khomeini and the Islamic Revolution&quot; by Amir Taheri, an exiled opponent of the late ayatollah. Those who can read Persian can refer to the 40-volume oeuvre of Khomeini that the present Iranian government has published to find a man with very scant knowledge of Islam and an almost genetically anti-philosophical mind. Mr. Moin tries to justify Khomeini's crimes including the execution of tens of thousands of Iranians without trial, the holding of American and other hostages in Tehran and Beirut, the assassination of over 100 Iranian dissidents in 11 foreign countries, including Britain and the United States, the death fatwa against trhe novelist Salman Rushdie and the illegal imprisonment of more than one million Iranians for varying lengths of time in trhe 1980s. Here are a few gems from Khomeini, or &quot; thegreat philospher&quot;, according to Mr Moin: &quot; Democracy is a form of prositution becuase it allows whoever collects more votes to govern.&quot; &quot; God did not create Man to have a good time in this world; God created man to be tested throug suffering, struggle, holy war and martyrdom.&quot; &quot; Human rights are an invention of Jews and Cross-worshippers, designed to mislead humanity. How can believers in the True God have exactly the same rights as those who do not believe? The only human rights that Islam recognises is the set of rights contained in the Holy Koran for the followers of the Prophet, who must earn them by deeds and not just by being there.&quot; A READER IN LONDON	2001-06-25
US	51077294	RCGMNCNPFUF4N	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	IF ONLY I HAD KNOWN.....	...Creative writing cliches,psuedo-Hollywoodian routines, and an irritating penchant for showing off make this so-called novel hard to bear. Had I known ... I would have fled from it a thousand miles. Alas, I didn't know. A READER IN LONDON	2001-03-28
US	51077294	RIG3KFGJGQ0IL	0440508320	932111145	The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Worst Book I Have Ever Read	Here, at last, is the worst book I have ever read and am likely to read. Harriet Rubin has collected a few childish anecdotes and added some misreadings of Machiavelli to produce her   &quot; Princessa&quot;. It is  clear that she has never read &quot;The Prince&quot;. It is also clear that  she knows little about the women she mentions, including Benazir Bhuto, who  is presented as   &quot; former President of Pakistan&quot;, and Anna  Akhmatova. It was  a painful read. Fortunately, I skipped a lot. It would  have been wiser to skip the whole lot! A Reader from Lndon, Great Britain.	2000-06-14
US	51077294	R5P1W9Z2RZZ1Q	0440508320	932111145	The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Worst Book I Have Ever Read	Here, at last, is the worst book I have ever read and am likely to read. Harriet Rubin has collected a few childish anecdotes and added some misreadings of Machiavelli to produce her   &quot; Princessa&quot;. It is  clear that she has never read &quot;The Prince&quot;. It is also clear that  she knows little about the women she mentions, including Benazir Bhuto, who  is presented as   &quot; former President of Pakistan&quot;, and Anna  Akhmatova. It was  a painful read. Fortunately, I skipped a lot. It would  have been wiser to skip the whole lot! A Reader from Lndon, Great Britain.	2000-06-14
US	51077294	R2BDGUFPJKKDBV	0930523210	646700573	The Story of Zahra	Books	5	9	14	N	N	THE THREE VOICES OF PERSIAN POETRY	When Time Magazine asked its readers last year to nominate the great men and women of the last millennium, only one Iranian found a place on the list: he was Jalaleddin Mowlavi, better known as Rumi, the poet. This was  not surprising to those who know that poetry represents the pinnacle of  Iranian literary achievements. Iran, also known as Persia, is one of the  half  adozen or so nations that can be described as truly poetical. &quot;  Wounded Rose&quot; introduces three contemporary Iranian poets who have  tried to continue a tradition, dating back to almost 1100 years, in three  different ways.  Mrs. Simin Behbahani has revived the &quot; ghazal&quot;  or sonnet form,injecting it with fresh vigour by introducing topics of  contemporary life and concern.  Nader Naderpour provides a bridge between  classical and modern. Naderpour, who died in exile at the age of 70 in  February 2000, was by far the best loved Iranian contemporary poet.  Although his work was banned by the Islamic regime in Tehran his poems,  including those he wrote in California where he spent the last 18 years of  his life, continued to attract a wide readership in Iran-thanks to  samizdats and pirate editions. Naderpour is the only Iranian poet to have  been nominated for the Nobel Prize for literature, and many believe he  would have won the honour had he not died in exile. The third poet  introduced in this volume is Yadollah Royai who represents the avant-garde  school of modern Persian poetry. At first glance his poems appear too  abstract, too surrealistic, almost alien to the tradition of Persioan  poetry. But a closer reading reveals how deeply Iranian he is. The three  poets represent three distinct voices in modern Persian poetry, a veritable  treasure that deserves to be known to a wider audience outside the  Persian-speaking world. Thanks to a number of good translations, Rumi has  been a best-selling poet in the United States in the past few years. The  three poets introduced in this volume are children of Rumi. Getting to know  their work is pure pleasure.The book includes a long introduction that  narrates the history of modern Persian poetry and discusses some of its  principal themes. The non-specialist reader could skip the introduction and  go straight for the poems which are a real treat. A Reader in London	2000-03-25
US	51077294	RP7WM53WBQ5B1	1860642586	961336155	Iran and the Rise of the Reza Shah: From Qajar Collapse to Pahlavi Power	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Collage As History	Cyrus Ghani's main claim for his volumnious book is that he has had access to His Britannic Majesty's archives on the subject.   The question  is : what does he do with the archive material?   He acts as a pair of  scissors and a spool of Scotch tape, cutting and pasting. Events are  reported in all their crudness. But there is absolutely no analysis, except  observations made by British diplomats serving in Iran or commenting on  events in Iran from the safety of White Hall.  Ghani's technique is one  of collage, which has adepts in popular art. History, however, requires  something more : a vision, a capacity to understand events and to find the  invivisble threads that gives them sequentiality.   Another problem is  that Ghani assumes that whatever comes from His Britannic Majesty's  archives is gospel truth. There is no checking and cross checking with the  archives of oher powers, including Iran itself. So profound is his contempt  for the Iranian state, and people, that he never once bothers to compare an  official Iranian account with a British one. Gani, of course,  shows little  interest in the rich archives of Russia, both pre- and post-Bolshevik, the  United States, France and the Ottoman Empire.  For Ghani there is only  one truth, and that is official British.  Needless to say British  official accounts of world events have long been subjected to criticism by  the more respected British historians. At best the British colonial view of  the world can be regarded as one version of the facts- not the only one.  Reputable British historians have shown how partial, misleading and ,  often, dishonest some of the official accounts have been over the years.   No serious historian would now base his account of so complex an episode in  Iranian history, as the rise of Reza Khan and the downfall of the Qajar  dynasty, on so narrow, partial and often plain wrong account of events. I  have noted more than 30 events, narrated in the book, where the British  officialaccount can easily be shown to be either partial or deliberately  misleading not to say mischievous.  I have decided to give Ghani's book  one star for a simple reason: he offers future historians a survey of the  material available in the British archives, thus facilitating their task.    One point worth noting is that Ghani's book could also be read as an  example of the self-loathing that his generation of Iranians  long felt,  bedazzled as they were by what looked like the grand glory of the West,  especially Britain and the United States.   Iran never became an  official colony like India. But some Iranian families, especially in the  smaller towns and among what Marxists would call the petite-bourgeoisie,  adopted the mentality of the colonised. They developed self-loathing ,  learned to distrust their own people, and did all they could to ape the  &quot; master race&quot;, to the point of studying in Britain or the US and  taking British or American spouses. In time they became sevrants of the  colonial apparatus in Iran, mostly by working for Western companies.   This state of mind, found in most former colonies and semi-colonies such as  Iran, is present, albeit in filigrane, throughout Ghani's collage.   He  simply cannot imagine that Reza Khan might have been a patriot, a heroic  character, a true Iranian seeking to restore his nation's grandeur against  the heaviest odds. Only the British can be heroic and &quot; create&quot;  history, whatever that may mean. Iranians are doomed to be objects, not   subjects, even in their own life story.  A good biography of Reza Khan,  later Reza Shah the Great, remains to be written, and is a vital necessity  as Iran begins to finds its way out of its turmoil of the past two decades.  Such a biography must be written from the Iranian point of view, while  using all the material, official and unofficial, available from all  relevant sources.  Ghani may be a keen student of archives  and an  enthusiastic compiler. But he is no historian. His inability to analyse,  his shaky language, his ignorance of the tools and terminology of  history  disqualify him from the start. But he deserves a pat on the shoulder for  having revived interest in an important period in Iran's contemporary  history. One can hope that other competent historians, and there are many  of Iranian origin in Western countries, would take the challenge and   succeed where Ghani has so heroically failed. Mohammad T. Dezfooli, London	1999-12-10
US	51077294	R1K5HXT4M0GKK7	158244000X	842075062	Behind the Tall Walls	Books	5	29	32	N	N	What a fantastic read	It was with some misgivings that I first picked Azar Arayanpour's book &quot; Behind the Tall Walls&quot;. Within minutes, however, I realised that the only problem I would have with this book is that I would not be  able to drop it until I had finished it. But the sleepless night that  followed proved worth it.   This is a truly fantastic read. Azar  Aryanpour tells her story with a voice that is both strong and vulnerable  at the same time.   Anyone who wants to know how the Khomeinist  revolution wrecked the lives oif millions of decent, hard-working,  god-fearing and patriotic people should read this book. The big tragedies  of history, such as the Islamic Revolution of 1979 in Iran, are often best  understood when studied through their impact on the lives of individuals.  To say that Iran today is twice poorer than it was before the revolution   is too general a sattement to make an impact. The same is true of reminding  the world that more than two millionn Iranians have been in and out of  &quot; Islamic&quot; prisons during the past two decades, that some 100,000  have been executed , that more than a million died in the war against Iraq,  and that nearly eight million Iranians have been driven out of their homes,  more than half of them inside Iran itself.  It is only when you read  how the lives of Shoja Sheikh, a young Iranian doctor and his loving wife  Azar were wrecked that you begin to share some of the pain felt by millions  of Iranians.  Ms. Aryanpour's book, however, is not a political  statement. She is telling the story of one woman who fought hard to save  her marriage and bring up her children in circumsatnces that would have  broken many a lesser person. Read this book and recommend it to your  friends. Paris , Amir Taheri	1999-09-17
US	51077294	R2MYGJA319J1PH	1860642586	961336155	Iran and the Rise of the Reza Shah: From Qajar Collapse to Pahlavi Power	Books	1	4	7	N	N	gossip and old chestnuts as history	This is an example of &quot; oriental&quot; history writing : using old chestnuts and gossip curerent in Tehran's aristocratic circles as history. The issue of the rivalry between the British and Russian empires in Iran,  and the threat that they both posed to Iran's very survival as an  independent nation-state is left aside in favour of anecdotes and  innuendos. The only way to enjoy this book is to forget that its subject is  history and to read it as a collection of little tales circulating in the  Iranian capital in the forties and fifties. The author, assuming a  nationalist pose, repeats, parrot-like, the rumours spread by the British  and their agents as part of a  strategy to drag the Iranian leadership in  mud and thus promote the myth of their own invincibility. A reader in  Lodnon	1999-09-01
