US	51086835	R1M8O8JO60GGC8	0375714197	595010379	Funeral Games	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Visceral, A Fitting Finale.	\\"Funeral Games\\" is the final stroke of Mary Renault's epic Alexander trilogy. It is a haunting, exciting novel on the world tearing itself apart after the death of Alexander and the confusion engulfing his men as to who will run the vast empire, or more precisely, who will be master of the world. As always Renault's use of detail shines, she does a wonderful service by taking history and showing all the drama, passion, heartbreak and ambition hidden between the words in your school textbook. She demonstrates how history is a human story, propelled by the same kind of emotions that apply to everyone. The main character of Alexander dies early in Babylon, and he remains more of a haunting presence through-out the book, it works to great effect and it is fitting that Renault concludes her trilogy that began with \\"Fire From Heaven\\" and \\"The Persian Boy\\" with the events that happened after Alexander dies, we see how the world falls apart with his abscence and how men who do not have his flare or fiery intelligence struggle to run a world mesmerized by the unifying vision of the Macedonian conqueror. There is no main character here, only individual stories and tragedies. The characters are brilliantly written, the strong Eurydike with her Amazon spirit, the half-wit Philip, Alexander's disabled brother who is declared King is written with a sweetness and comedic touch while Kassandros, Alexander's arch-enemy burns off the page as a cold killer after the spoils. Renault has a way of exploring interesting characters set-up in the previous novel of whom we wanted to know more. Here we really get to meet Roxane, Alexander's Bactrian wife and mother of his heir. Renault brilliantly parallels her with Alexander's mother Olympias which raises the Oedipus issue. The novel rushes through the years in a fever as characters conspire against each-other and there is the feeling that no one is safe. \\"Funeral Games\\" is also notable, like Renault's entire body of work, for it's richnessin language and construction, you realize these stories are not written simply as examinations of antiquity but of life in general. There is a sense of humanity and spirit that propells Renault's novels and this one is no exception, these feel like real people experiencing large events in their own time. \\"Funeral Games\\" plays like the best dramas, it always feels alive, outcomes are uncertain, sometimes even for those who already know the history. It is a wonderous epic of dark times after the passing of greatness, and how our ambitions fuel us and how our hates can destroy us. Renault has honored her love honorably, with the kind of understanding, insight and scope he deserves. There has never been a better series of novels about Alexander The Great, it is hard to imagine there will ever be another.	2005-08-20
US	51086835	R1QU7WD8JA0A2	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Glorious Epic.	\\"The Persian Boy\\" is a journey back in time, with it Mary Renault succeeds in both capturing the essence of a character and guiding us through the immense campaigns of Alexander The Great. Like \\"Fire From Heaven,\\" it is a brilliant mix of drama and history, written with a detail so vivid that there is no doubt that Renault is a serious historian who loves the subjects she writes about and has studied all aspects of the history and culture. Renault was always bold and with a wealth of character to choose from who travelled with Alexander she chose one of the most controversial and sexually charged, Bagoas the eunuch. Little is known of this gift offered to Alexander as part of a surrender and after the death of the Macedonian conqueror he disappears from the pages of history, what is recorded is that he was a favorite of Alexander's, and as was the custom at the time, a lover as well. Since the character is so murky, Renault has free will to invent as she pleases with his life and in the novel he comes from a well respected family destroyed by Persian traitors who sell Bagoas into slavery, castrate him and soon use him as an onject of pleasure. \\"Fire From Heaven\\" was a Greek novel, set almost entirely in the world of Macedon and Greece, but with \\"The Persian Boy\\" Renault offers us the oriental point of view. She captures the culture with perfection, displaying the lands and people that are now Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan with vivid details about the dress, customs, religion and habits. Once Bagoas is given to Alexander (after fleeing with the Great King Darius who is killed by his own commanders) the novel really becomes epic as Bagoas follows Alexander from Bactria to India and Babylon. It is a tale of humility and devotion as Bagoas realizes he is being treated as a human being for the first time in his life by this young conqueror who is more humble and understanding than any before or since. Renault's historical novels have always shined because they capture the humanity behind the events, behind the iconic figures and towering events. The world is changed by individuals with their own personal histories and Renault captures how hates, loves, passions, devotions and obsessions have changed the course of history. Some have accused Renault of deifying Alexander, but his faults also appear and he comes across as a brilliant thinker and commander who may also have slipped and fallen but always with a drive to discover. Classicists and Alexander students will enjoy how Renault includes famous passages from history with gusto and style such as when Alexander falls in love with the Bactrian princess Roxane one night as she performs a ritual dance after the Macedonians capture the Sogdian Rock. There are moments of passive thought and moments of great intensity and action, with drama that burns off the page. Alexander's travels are described with epic spirit as Bagoas too discovers the harsh rains of India and the horrors of crossing the desert to Babylon. \\"The Persian Boy\\" is one of the great historical novels, highly recommended because it has a real heart at its center. This is not a novel by someone who felt like writing about Alexander, this is a novel by someone who is an expert on the subject and has done her research with incredible detail. Her dramatic speculation is always smart and plausible, and goes with the evidence we have. This is a masterpiece, a timeless work of literature for the ages.	2005-08-16
US	51086835	R2QZPKGEFC4K8D	0375726829	253635627	Fire from Heaven	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Vivid, Intelligent And Rich In Expertise.	Mary Renault remains the best historical novelist of the past three decades, no other author has approached her kind of skill and insight when writing about antiquity and some of the famous figures of the past. \\"Fire From Heaven\\" is a brilliant take on the childhood of Alexander The Great, the first part of a widely popular trilogy, it brings the icon's life to the page with wonderful dramatic flare and stunning detail. Perhaps the difference between Renault and other writers who have attempted the difficult task of bringing the ancient world back to life is that Renault at the end of the day was a scholar, a real historian who went on to write a great Alexander biography, \\"The Nature Of Alexander,\\" while other authors, although well-skilled in their craft, approach this kind of material without having actually studied it with the kind of fervor a historian has. And yet Renault's skill is not just simple anthropology, she knows how to combine the drama with the history, the novel never feels like an academic study trying to be entertaining but like a serious attempt at dramatizing the life of Alexander. Renault excells with the more famous aspects of Alexander's life, making them important but not obvious (take the taming of Bucephalus for example). The characters feel authentic and we get the sense of how history is changed and moved by real, living people who have their own personal stories behind the veil of legend and myth. Alexander's unique genius shines, yes he feels different from normal men (a simpleton could not have achieved the heights he did) but Renault probes into his soul and the human face of the world icon appears, letting us get to know him as a man and not just as a mythic, towering figure. However, it is his mother Queen Olympias who steals the show with her ferocious attitude and feverish devotion to the cult of Dionysus who's rituals are brilliantly written and described with poetic intensity. She pushes Alexander to greatness while his fatherPhilip tries to show him how to survive in a world of dangerous men. Renault is still enjoyable to read because like the best novelists her style is vivid, you can see the events clearly but you can FEEL them as well because Renault writes with a literary style that can be poetic but always clear. \\"Fire From Heaven\\" feels like a work of loving devotion, Renault was a grand admirer of Alexander and her love and obsession course through the entire book. It can be said that the best works of art are done by artists literally obsessed with their subject and this is no exception. The other value of \\"Fire From Heaven\\" is that it works both ways for classicists and the general reader, it is written in a way where both can appreciate it. And as we all know, this is only the beginning for someone barely being introduced to this trilogy which continues with \\"The Persian Boy\\" and concluded with \\"Funeral Games.\\" A grand work of art, timeless and profound.	2005-08-14
US	51086835	R1J8DBFX00DIV4	1592400647	359994920	Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Well-Written, Has A Few New Insights.	Jim Morrison understood the power of mythmaking and history, he was an avid fan of Alexander The Great (Morrison copied Alexander's tilted head stance and hair style) and it is fascinating how Morrrison has essentially ended-up like a rock n' roll version of Alexander. His myth grows bigger and bigger with the passsage of time, his influence on popular culture is always evident, especially in music, always in music. And like Alexander, Morrison is now buried under a pile of could be true or false, he has become lost in a haze of legend and fact. As a result books are always written about the guy, so many that now the harder task isn't actually finding a book on Morrison and The Doors, but finding a book worthy of one's time. Stephen Davis, well-known for his epic Led Zeppelin bio \\"Hammer Of The Gods,\\" takes on the Morrison story here in \\"Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend.\\" The result is a well-written biography that for avid Doors fans will turn out to be one of those experiences where you race through the famous aspects of the subject's life that have already been told over and over and over and try to find anything new or revelatory. Some fans will of course check and see how the well-known areas compare to their descriptions in other prominent works like \\"No One Here Gets Out Alive\\" and \\"Break On Through: The Life And Death Of Jim Morrison\\" (which I still consider the best). Davis is not a Morrison basher, on the contrary he seems genuinely fascinated by the man and the way his myth has survived the passage of time, as well as the music and words. Some chapters are written with feverish intensity in the way they describe The Doors' performances where Morrison seemed possessed, collapsing on stage and screaming in ecstacy, in essence he tried to bring a Dionysian identity to rock and as a result created the kind of rock, shock theater taken to the next level by Iggy Pop, Alice Cooper and Marilyn Manson. Each section begins with a memorable quote by figures as established as Nietzsche and William S. Burroughs (Davis uses Burroughs' comic statement about how he never believed Morrison died in a Paris bathtub, it simply seemed too odd to him), this helps enhance the fact that Morrison was first and foremost a poet, a lover of literature and drama. Davis in a sense paints the same picture of Morrison from \\"Break On Through\\" and Oliver Stone's popular movie \\"The Doors,\\" that of an artist who was brilliant and created immortal material, but was eventually destroyed by his quest in excess. There are fascinating stories through-out about Morrison's affairs with figures like the Velvet Underground's Nico, but the most scorching revelation in the book is that Morrison had a bisexual side. This may not seem as a surprise, the tales of rock debauchery are known far and wide, but Morrison has simply never been directly connected with homosexual behaviour. There are also allegations that he was sexually abused as a child and this therefore could have contributed to the inner demons burning inside him. Davis approaches the subject cautiously and it feels plausible. Other than that, the book is an interesting, entertaining study in rock history and one of the 60's most enduring figures. Few rock stars have been placed alongside names  like Allen Ginsberg and Burroughs, Davis here gives a convincing portrait that shows why Morrison is also rightly acknowledged as a poet just as much as a rock star. There are little historical notes on The Doors' influence on Punk and how the Morrison myth has evolved through the years. One touching moment describes how Morrison's sister Anne received his award in his place when the band was inducted into the Rock N' Roll Hall Of Fame (Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder sang classic hits with the band). \\"Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend\\" is also more up to date than most available books on Morrison and it goes into the recent reunion of the band and their current legal squabbles (the band is now touring with The Cult's Ian Astbury on vocals). Davis has written an impressive book that will be valuable to those barely being introduced into the Doors legend and who are hungry for info on Jim Morrison, the man and myth. Some of the most important rock artists of the past thirty years including Patti Smith and U2, have pointed out Morrison as a huge influence and Davis delivers a fitting biography, maybe a bit controversial, but that is in the spirit of The Doors. More than anything, it proves The Lizard King still lives.	2005-07-19
US	51086835	R2ZBGF8UFXU9YN	0345425502	560118008	The Life of Elizabeth I	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Highly Detailed And Ravishingly Entertaining.	Nowadays the most fascinating news we can hope to attain from the British monarchy is where Prince Harry was caught smoking dope or punching a cameraman. But all histories have their moments of real fascination, within the English monarchy there is no more universally appealing story than that of Elizabeth I. The 1998 movie only helps to show just how iconic Elizabeth is, probably the most iconic queen England has ever produced. Alison Weir's \\"The Life Of Elizabeth I\\" is a magnificent book that chronicles the life of Elizabeth and in rich detail explores both the icon and her human side, Weir bravely takes on the rumous about Elizabeth's love affairs and explores each one. She also brilliantly transports us to the England of the 1500s, giving us a tour of a world where death was almost certain before the age of 41 and where being a Protestant or Catholic was not simple religious association like today, but a position that could very well mean life or death. The character of Elizabeth that Weir builds is that of a strong-willed, independent-thinking queen who was not afraid to speak her mind, be natural (yet still retain a sense of the formal and majestic) and had the wits to take on powerful enemies and survive to see another day and establish the England that gave us Shakespeare. Weir does not however only present Elizabeth the icon, she also lays bare the theories of why Elizabeth would not marry and who her lovers were (Weir leaves it for the reader to decide if any of the relationships might have been sexual). There are also brilliant comedic moments where you laugh and smile at some of the outrageous, almost ridiculous situations Elizabeth would find herself in with a world pressuring her to marry and provide an heir. One of the special things we get from reading \\"The Life Of Elizabeth I\\" is the sense that this author loves the subject and has obsessed herself with it. This is such a detailed, monumental work that it deserves to be read more than once to be able to process all the information, emotions and history. The world has had it's share of intriguing, towering leaders from Alexander The Great to Winston Churchill, Elizabeth is surely among them and Weir's book not only informs you but gives you the sense that you have gotten to know the character.	2005-03-23
US	51086835	R3RNSOXMHKRPFB	0520231929	230209396	In the Footsteps of Alexander The Great: A Journey from Greece to Asia	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Has Some Valuable Stories From The Modern-Day Spots.	The story of Alexander The Great remains just as relevant today as it did when the \\"Alexander Romance\\" was published many centuries ago, consider that many of the areas he conquered such as Iraq and Iran are still international hot spots today when it comes to the current state of the world. Michael Wood's \\"In The Footsteps Of Alexander The Great\\" is an entertaining read because it plays like a cultural travelogue, documenting how the story of Alexander is still passed down from generation to generation in Greece and the Middle East. In some places he is a heroe, in others a ruthless barbarian, even a devil. Woods writes about his journey down Alexander's trek with vivid details, providing fascinating insights into other corners of the globe and the customs found therein. For readers who enjoy learning and reading about other countries and their traditions this will prove to be a fascinating trip. However, the only thing that makes Woods' book not the gem it should be is that in his actual writing of Alexander's history he subscribes to much of what has already been dismissed as propaganda by historians like Robin Lane Fox and authors like Mary Renault. It is no surprise that since Woods is after all making a TV program here, he indulges in the more wild, ear-catching legends surrounding Alexander such as the burning of a temple for the sake of doing something fun when drunk (eventhough Alexander, as was common in Macedon and Greece, enjoyed wine to excessive lengths) and the killing of Betis by dragging him from a chariot to imitate Achilles (this is ridiculous considering Alexander always honored opponents who fought bravely). Woods apparently likes using information gathered from writers like Cleitarchus, who is notorious for writing fictitous accounts with exaggerated numbers, events and even Socrates made fun of the guy for his flights of fancy. Luckily Woods is not writing a biography here but an account of the current state of the lands Alexander conquered and it's peoples. As a journey through these areas and as a look at how potent the image and story of Alexander are today there is no better book. But for an actual reading of the life and times of Alexander The Great, I recommend \\"Alexander The Great\\" by Robin Lane Fox and \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" by Mary Renault, two others who write with a more serious sense of scholarship.	2005-02-18
US	51086835	R16K6QYHO11VZ5	039473825X	906665018	The Nature of Alexander	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Rich, Exciting Work.	There are authors and historians who are readily attached to a figure of historical value because of their insight into the character, such is the case of Mary Renault and Alexander The Great. No modern author, not even Robin Lane Fox, is so famously mentioned when discussing the written works surrounding the life and times of the greatest conqueror ever to invade a foreign soil. Renault is mostly recognized for her fictional novels about Alexander, especially \\"The Persian Boy,\\" but it can be argued that her best work is actually her non-fiction biography \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" which stands as one of the best, if not THE best. It is a rich work of language and history, it pulsates with the idea that history is life and life is history. Many authors of recent years, especially Peter Green, have tried to re-write the life of Alexander by slapping him with flaws meant to mirror the ideas and trends of today, but Renault's book rightly judges Alexander based on the ideas and standards of HIS era. She presents him as a brilliant strategist, a thinker who loved poetry and music, bred by powerful, strong-willed parents. Yes, the man had his flaws as we all do, but in \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" he was a visionary who changed the course of human history by attempting to fuse cultures and discover new worlds. Renault writes in incredible detail about the customs of Ancient Greece and Macedonia, she fleshes out the characters with great insight and explores fascinating topics such as the Dionysian cults Alexander's mother, Olympias, indulged in and more importantly, Renault treats these characters as real people, not just names on scrolls, she tries to explore the emotions, feelings and ideas that brought about the described events. Her descriptions of how Alexander's story came down through the ages is fascinating, especially the areas covering the development of the \\"Alexander Romance\\" and how even when Greece was conquered by Rome the great names of that period such as Caesar, Marc Antony and Augustus visited the conqueror's famously lost shrine to pay homage. In thrilling detail we read about Judea remembering the Beast With Two Horns who harmlessly passed their way. And of course Renault takes us through the entire campaign of Alexander from Macedon to India, it is a wonderous story of exploration and discovery, philosophy, courage and even religion. \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" is a grand success particularly because it is so enjoyable. Like Robin Lane Fox's book, this does not read like some tired acaedemic work where the writer feels like a tidious, pompous Cassander trying to impress the reader (for that you can read \\"Alexander Of Macedon\\" by Peter Green), instead Renault writes like an obsessed lover of the subject, it doesn't feel like a book that was tiresome to write. For avid readers of history this is a gem.	2005-02-16
US	51086835	R3KLFKMGIKW9T5	0951139215	667990203	The Making of Alexander: The Official Guide to the Epic Film Alexander	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An Entertaining And Highly Detailed Account.	Robin Lane Fox is not a name readily associated with Hollywood or movies. And yet the man has been seeked out by important filmmakers for years to help with projects based on the life Alexander The Great that eventually never left the starting line. This is just one of the fascinating facts we discover in Fox's \\"The Making Of Alexander,\\" a book where Fox describes how Oliver Stone's epic came to be and how Fox was tagged on as not only a consultant, but also as one of the members of Alexander's cavalry (this is actually what Fox asked for in return for his services). Making Of books tend to read like CNN on the set, simple, straightforward accounts of how the script was written, how the actors were cast and what calamities and surprises took place during shooting. Fox's book contains all these, but with a special flavor because here we have an outsider to this world, an Oxford historian who's biggest thrill is riding horses and hunting in the winter who's suddenly called-up by a producer and asked to meet the notorious Oliver Stone and aid him in the details of Alexander's world. \\"The Making Of Alexander\\" is a creative adventure, a humorous look at moviemaking and a richly detailed history lesson on the conquests of Alexander and details of the Ancient Greek world. Fox writes with the fervor of someone who deeply cares about the subject, Stone's film is of great importance to him because it brings everything Fox writes and lectures about to the big screen. Stone's critics will be surprised to find that Fox considers Stone a true artist, a man who deeply cares about history and is fascinated by it and treats it will absolute respect in his movies. The book also clarifies how historical films may seem inaccurate, but that is only because a director is given about 2 or 3 hours to tell a story spanning numerous years and so material must be condensed or taken out. The details of how the movie's elaborate sets like the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were constructed are fascinating and the passages where Fox describes charging with elephants and re-creating famous battles are exciting and touching considering we get the sense of Fox being a historian living out his dreams (Fox is the author of \\"Alexander The Great,\\" often considered the best of the Alexander biographies). This is also a visually enticing book. The photos from the film and sets are excellent and give us a clear picture of how the movie was constructed. \\"The Making Of Alexander\\" even settles some questions long asked in the press, like, did Colin Farrell and Angelina Jolie get it on? (They did). <br />\\"The Making Of Alexander\\" is an entertaining journey, an adventure of minds trying to compose a gigantic movie with what resources are available. It is the story of a historian suddenly finding himself in the roller coaster ride known as Oliver Stone and coming out alive to tell the tale.	2004-12-06
US	51086835	R378TV8Y3LJFPO	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	2	8	44	N	N	Slick Willy Tries To Pull A Fast One.	Not even decade out of office and Bill Clinton is already selling us his \\"memoirs.\\" The reviewers here who kiss Clinton's a-- with their praises about this being the smartest man ever to be President (smarter than JFK? Come on!)are either diehard Democrats who wish John Kerry could have delivered or they simply are horribly misinformed. First, \\"My Life\\" as a book is a boring read, particularly because the entire style feels like Clinton trying to cover-up the realities of his personality and trying to convince us that he's not a bad guy (well, he's not in the sense of Saddam Hussein). Can we really trust the memoirs of a man who lied to the entire country? Not to mention Clinton is not exactly a good writer, his style is pretty simplistic and lacks richness of language or captivating passages. I'm not a \\"red state\\" type, but at the end of the day Clinton didn't do much for the country. By the time he left were already in economic trouble and he pretty much turned the office of the presidency into a laughing stock with his, ahem, rough housing. Seriously, he got lucky being president during a passive time for the U.S., and even then, can we really judge him as great when you look at his behavor in a situation like Somalia? Let's remember that the guerrillas in Somalia were trained by Osama's people and Clinton simply pulled out, he left 18 American soldiers to rot and sent a clear message to Al Qaida and their ilk that if you strike down 18 of our men we run and so therefore taking down the World Trade Center would make us surrender. Clinton represents the kind of aspiring liberal who knows how to play the game of politics, he knows how to give the public what they want. I would compare this to the recent Richard Helms bio, where you can entertain yourself reading it, but be careful in taking any of it at face value. For Clinton philes this will be no doubt the best book they have ever read, but for us students of history, I say get informed, do your research beforetaking any of this seriously.	2004-11-11
US	51086835	R9MBGYIISJWUO	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	2	46	61	N	N	A Well-Written Tabloid.	Few stories from antiquity have been exhausted like that of Alexander The Great. The guy at least deserves the title of \\"Great\\" for the fact that more than 3,000 years after his death we are still debating his life, legacy and character. Peter Green jumps into the argument with another book that attempts to give us a \\"new\\" look at Alexander's life, what his \\"Alexander Of Macedon\\" eventually is is another take on views shared by professors such as Harvard's Badian which try to judge Alexander with more \\"clear\\" views suited to our times. The problem here is that Alexander The Great lived in an era much different from our own, consider that the Greeks expressed the importance of philosophy, reading and knowledge in general as a society, today we express the importance of getting home on time for the Super Bowl. Unlike Robin Lane Fox, who's towering work \\"Alexander The Great\\" remains the best of the Alexander biographies, Green dismisses a lot of clear evidence and decides to give us something \\"new\\" by simply messing up the image of Alexander into that of some murderous conqueror or deranged dictator. It's as if Green, like Paul Cartledge, simply turns the positive into negative so it feels \\"fresh.\\" He also feels appalled by tactics in ancient Macedon that today would seem barbaric but back then were the norm. The simple truth is you cannot judge a man like Alexander by the standards of our time, today we live in a world where idealism is being scorned or called \\"war-mongering\\" and heroism seems cartoonish or unrealistic, a guy like Alexander The Great would naturally feel out of place in today's world (I can just imagine Michael Moore walking around ancient Macedon, writing a rabid attack on Alexander and Philip). However, I cannot call Green some kind of unskilled writer, he actually has a very vivid, readable way of expressing his viewpoints and the book at least doesn't suffer from horrible craftsmanship. But I do not recommend it for those who are barely being introduced to Alexander, instead I recommend the more skillful works \\"Alexander The Great\\" by Robin Lane Fox and \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" by Mary Renault.	2004-11-08
US	51086835	R315V5HS1WC1TV	0143035134	876636990	Alexander the Great	Books	5	55	57	N	N	The Most Engaging Of The Alexander Biographies.	There is no shortage of books on Alexander The Great, but Robin Lane Fox supercedes them all with this grand, highly detailed and impressive work that manages to entertain, educate and excite the reader about the subject. One of the benefits of Fox's \\"Alexander The Great\\" is that he decides to do away with boring, repetitive structures and decides to use both the evidence but basic human experience to tell the tale of one of history's most fascinating kings. History, Fox explains, is motivated much by human emotion, passionate feeling aside from the usual politics. This gives his book a natural dramatic touch, it doesn't have the feel of a fictitious novel, but of a biography that really tries to explore Alexander and those around him as people. One of the disappointments in Paul Cartledge's recent biography is that he relies strictly on tablets and scrolls, and dismisses the human areas, creating characters that are cardboard cut-outs. To Cartledge everything is politics, all true relationships homosexual and any other intercourse purely done for politics' sake. Fox here gives us the portrait of a man driven by a need to discover, to reach the heights of Achilles, but also a haunted man, especially by his mother Olympias. The book is also well-detailed in the culture of the times and in his descriptions of landscapes and even home interiors, Fox manages to completely transport the reader to another time and place. Each chapter is richly detailed with not only the story of Alexander, but his influence on world history and leaders like Julius Caesar and Napoleon. We get fascinating myths, comments, tales of conspiracy and murder and one of the great interchanges of culture ever. Fox educates us about customs and rituals, beliefs and battle tactics in a work of enormous scope. It is an important thing to study the past to better understand the present. Once again we are in a time when the west is going into the east, the story of Alexander has never been more relevant. \\"Alexander The Great\\" is epic and exciting and should be sought out by anyone currently engaged in reading world history.	2004-10-19
US	51086835	R1EKIZ7HXL3EU1	1585675652	868576545	Alexander the Great: the Hunt For a New Past	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Well-Written But Unoriginal.	Alexander The Great is one of world history's great characters, a bold leader who changed the history of civilization and has transcended culture and language like few world figures. And so it is not surprising that there are so many biographies written about the guy. Paul Cartledge here, like so many recent historians, tries to go for the gold by giving us a \\"new\\" interpretation of the events and character surrounding Alexander's life. That is not to say that his book is trash, it's actually very well-written and detailed. Cartledge's use of words and descriptions shows that he's enthusiastic about the subject and there are fascinating passages detailing the culture and state of the world during Alexander's times. We get vivid glimpses into how the Persians lived (there are some especially enticing details about the preparation of the Great King Darius' concubines). It's a good effort, but Cartledge doesn't present anything that has already been better documented by authors like Mary Renault who's \\"The Nature Of Alexander\\" is one of the great Alexander biographies, and of course no one has surpassed Robin Lane Fox's own work. One of the curious flaws of \\"Alexander The Great\\" is that it takes the same route as the recent book \\"Alexander Of Macedon,\\" though not in the same spirit. While \\"Alexander Of Macedon\\" makes the blunder of trying to judge Alexander by today's standards (which is ludicrous considering the world, I would assume, was pretty different more than 2,000 years ago), Cartledge tries to keep the heroic figure of Alexander alive but stripped of the human aspects of the story. The portrait we get is of a brilliant man, visionary and military leader with not much heart. Heart in the sense of, well, we get a cardboard cut-out here. Cartledge is quick to discard the personality of Queen Olympias as being a ferverent Dionysian cult member, claiming the records aren't sufficient (or reliable), but this would also mean Cartledge cannot throw away these aspectsof Alexander's life because they are not proven or disproven. The same goes for Alexander's marriage to Roxane, which Cartledge discards as JUST a political marriage and nothing more. Obviously none of us were alive during these events and so I guess Cartledge has his points, but notice how he does however accept as fact homosexual relationships between Alexander and certain characters like Hephaiston and Bagoas, and while there is little doubt that Alexander did indeed have intimate relations with members of the same sex (sexual culture was of course very different back then), Cartledge would also have to be handicapped here by the \\"lack of reliable sources.\\" \\"Alexander The Great\\" is a good book in many aspects, but by stripping away all the humanity and emotion from the story of Alexander is to simplify his history and the history of the world. It also feels like just another avenue to try and present something \\"new\\" on a subject that has been tirelessly investigated and written about. At the end of the day it's a good read, but it's been done, and better.	2004-10-12
US	51086835	RL5CQVFD65LVW	0688119158	873795671	Break on Through: The Life and Death of Jim Morrison	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Classic Biography Of A Classic Rock Icon.	While the world awaits the new book on Jim Morrison by Stephen Davis, you can still take time and appreciate James Riordan's classic work on this already classic subject. Jim Morrison remains one of the great icons of rock music, his image of a brilliant, insane poet who's antics and stage presence paved the way for gothic, theatrical rock (artists like Iggy Pop, Marilyn Manson and Scott Weiland all confirm the influence) is timeless and still inspiring to many. Riordan does his subject total justic with a book written with a literary flair in the words and an attention to detail that makes it vital to both the newcomer to The Doors and to Morrison followers. The portrait we are presented with at the end is of a genius driven by ideas and troubled by personal demons that probably did him in. What's fascinating is how Riordan has managed to dissect every aspect of the man. He studies in detail Morrison's tastes in surrealism, poetry and shamanism and makes comparisons between shamanistic rituals and Morrison's own stage behaviuor. And yet amongst all this the author never loses touch with what has made Morrison immortal in popular culture, the music. We get in-depth examinations of the lyrics and sound of The Doors and it's influence on artists such as Patti Smith, U2 and Alice Cooper. And Riordan never loses the sense of making the book entertaining, he writes with a novelistic touch that makes the book feel almost cinematic in it's approach, just read the first chapter, or better yet, the first page. &quot;Break On Through&quot; is a brilliant biography that any bookphile or rock enthusiast would enjoy. It's a captivating character study and an interesting look at the power of rock music in our age.	2004-05-23
US	51086835	R3AINHRBGZKVL4	0807847445	144131965	The Genius of Alexander the Great	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Well-Detailed, Highly Entertaining And Informative.	Few figures in the history of the world have attained the mythical status and timeless quality of Alexander The Great. The man and myth continue to fuel the imagination of every new generation. This is no surprise when one reads about the man's achievements and how they changed the world. The lore of the story relies in the classic, epic sense of adventure that courses through it, it is a tale that takes us through various cultures, characters and to the stretches of the known world. N.G.L. Hammond is clearly an admirer of Alexander and tells his story here with the flare of homage and reverence. \\"The Genius Of Alexander The Great\\" gives us a story of boldness and the quest for knowledge and truth. Alexander comes off as a highly intelligent, cultured commander who embarks on a quest to defeat a mammoth Persian empire and bring Greek culture into the civilisations of Asia and beyond and to also introduce their cultures to the Greeks and Macedonians. Hammond describes in great detail the battles Alexander wins against Persian king Darius, who is ruler of the world before the Macedonian king steps ashore. The book is also a fascinating exploration of Greek history, taking us deep into the cultural traditions and aspects of Alexander's world. One realizes you cannot judge Alexander by the standards of our time, this is one figure that demands to be judged by the standards of his own time and era. If one takes the book to heart with careful attention, you realize what sets Alexander apart from conquerors like Caesar, Napoleon and Hannibal is that his goal was simply to achieve a sort of greatness in the style of Achilles (\\"The Iiliad\\" was a constant companion during the Asiatic campaign). Hammond's book is also a wonderful gallery of characters. The most memorable aside from Alexander would have to be his free-spirited mother Olympias, who here is depicted dancing wildly in Dionysian cults, handling snakes and indulging herself in orgiastic rituals such as the \\"Bacchae.\\" There is also Alexander's talented, brilliant father Philip, the philosopher Aristotle and others. It's evident that Alexander lived in special times for the history of civilisation and he was simply there to add his mark. And Hammond writes it all with a novelistic style that engrosses the reader and transports you there clearly and vividly. From Macedonia and Persia to Egypt and India, Hammond takes us on a journey to understand how there are daring, epic moments in history that live on forever. A wonderful read and memorable book.	2004-03-05
US	51086835	RAMIVFWP4TZN7	037550012X	341015548	A Look over My Shoulder: A Life in the Central Intelligence Agency	Books	3	25	39	N	N	Interesting To Read, But Helms Struggles To Keep Things Nice	This is a biography we have been waiting for a long time. In fact, few even thought Richard Helms would even write his memoirs when one considers he spent his life working within the world of secrets, assassinations, political underdealings. Indeed, this can be a fascinating book for a realistic view of the world stuff like the Bond movies paint in more cartoonish terms. Helms takes us on a historical journey through World War 2 and his meeting with Hitler (where he describes the power of the Hitler aura upon the German people), he goes on into the years of Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon during which he was director of the CIA. But...should we take Helms' version of history as official? Probably not. Consider he makes an attempt to bash any theory that tries to show uptight men like him as anything other than squeaky clean. He especially tries to brush off the idea that the CIA might have been involved in the JFK assassination. He goes out of his way to especially criticise New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison who first brought the assassination conspiracy theories to the public and the Oliver Stone film based on the investigation and evidence of conspiracy, \\"JFK.\\" He calls the idea of a conspiracy hogwash and tries to support the idea of Oswald acting alone with evidence that has already been shredded apart by investigators. Helms even tries to defend the image of FBI head J.Edgar Hoover, he confirms that Hoover kept certain files on people, but he attempts to deny the idea brought about by overwhelming evidence and testimony that Hoover lived a homosexual lifestyle. Helms presents a good story but also tries too hard to clean-up the image of a government that runs wild in some areas, something that has been long ago proven. It is a good read, well-written and detailed, but like any open-minded reader, read but carefully tread the waters because are we to believe Helms would honestly reveal secrets that even today would awaken rage from the general populace? Helms tells a good story, how much of it is true we will never know.	2003-06-14
US	51086835	R3UG5DTXBOUZKP	067100669X	497900237	Tears of Rage	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Heartbreaking, Disturbing And Informing.	Few memoirs can have the kind of honesty, self-examination and disturbing insight into a horrific type of crime as found in \\"Tears Of Rage.\\" Though John Walsh, best known as the host of \\"America's Most Wanted,\\" has written recent books that deal with capturing wanted felons, this is his most stellar work because it is him stripping himself bare to show us the horror of losing a child and the heartbreaking struggle to move on. This is the story of the disappearance of 6-year old Adam Walsh, abducted in a department store and later found decapitated. Walsh describes in wrenching detail the anguish him and his wife Reve endured while searching for their son and wondering what had happened as well as dealing with a police force which in 1981, was ill-equipped when it came to finding missing children. It is fair to say that there might be no better book that tells the story of a family's loss of this nature, Walsh writes with a truth and bluntness that keeps the reader emotionally gripped onto the pages. But yet aside from a powerful story, \\"Tears Of Rage\\" also informs us with the evolution of missing children programs in America, it took the Walsh tragedy to wake-up America to the monster that is child murder and abduction. Beasts prowled the fields and no one noticed while many suffered in silence, not knowing where their sons or daughters were. Walsh takes us on an in-depth look at his own efforts which have taken him to congress to help the mothers of the disappeared. But the interesting thing here is the haunting story of Adam Walsh, when John Walsh describes in detail how he believes the murder took place one is surprised at the courage this father has to describe how the horrific murder of his son might have taken place. In essence Walsh takes us on a journey through emotions and scenarios many of us hope we will never have to live through, but the lesson here is that in his baptism of fire, Walsh came out a wiser, stronger man and from his story we learn we mustall be careful, especially with something as precious as our children.	2003-04-29
US	51086835	R3VMMUGVLQBZ7J	0312058993	435803459	Mr. Mojo Risin': Jim Morrison, the Last Holy Fool	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Dynamic Writing On Morrison.	Jim Morrison is one of the most written about performers of rock n' roll and &quot;Mr. Mojo Risin'&quot; stands as one of the wildest, most poetic biographies ever produced on the self-proclaimed Lizard King. David Dalton writes in a rich, feverish style that makes the book just as enjoyable to read as it is to look at. He describes in great detail Morrison's influences such as Jack Kerouac, William Blake and Nietzsche. What we end-up with is an intellecual dissection of Morrison's art, his rise to legendary heights with The Doors, one of the most influential of all rock bands, is described in mythic fashion, which is fitting considering men like Morrison are like Che Guevara, they are the mythic figures of our time in our culture. The is very fascinating when concerning the literary influences that contribute to the great lyrics of classics such as &quot;Break On Through&quot; and &quot;The End.&quot; This is significant because it helps understand why the music of The Doors does not decrease in popularity, with a rich literary force in the music, it survives as does good literature. &quot;The End&quot; remains as vital as Conrad's &quot;Heart Of Darkness.&quot; Jim Morrison comes off not just as a tragic poet, but also as an artist looking for answers in that which is almost spiritual, he was the first performer in rock who used the concert setting as a seance, as a religious event more than just a fun time. Consider his shamanistic movements on stage and the invoking power of the music in numbers such as &quot;When The Music's Over.&quot; Of course, this is lost today in most of Morrison's influence on modern music when you look at bands like Marilyn Manson, Godsmack and Disturbed, even older bands with The Doors influence stamped on them such as Iggy Pop &amp; The Stooges and Alice Cooper are more about the shock viscera than deep poetic journey. Dalton's writing is also intellectual in it's insight, as when he rightfully writes about the conservative landscapebeing also a breeding ground for monsters and also describes in interesting fashion the 60's and radical art changes that occurred during the era. The true delight of this book is the words, Dalton writes with great poetic prose, describing everything with visceral energy and rich phrasing which is enhanced by the great selections of photographs showing The Doors on stage and individual shots of Morrison dressed all in black leather, looking like a rebel with the heart of a poet. He almost seems prophetic. This is a poetic read and a great tribute to The Doors, their time, their music and their timelessness.	2003-03-30
US	51086835	R8EQ6UDBY6L9U	0688013635	857875594	The Doors: The Illustrated History	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable And Fascinating.	&quot;The Doors: The Illustrated History&quot; is the best photographic, visual book record of the band. Compiled by Doors manager Danny Sugerman, it is a fascinating, visually rich and enjoyable display of a band that changed rock music and the amount of praise (and criticsm) they inspired. The pictures are great, they are clear, close and informative and clearly show how Jim Morrison created the theatrical aspects we so see so often in today's rock music. We also get different shots of the man, as the wild, leather-clad Lizard King and as a lonely, quiet poet. The articles and reviews are fascinating because they take us back to a time and place, but they are also surprising to read when compared to what is written today about certain rock artists. In one article dealing with the New Haven arrest where Morrison became the first rock performer to be arrested at a concert, the writer calls the music of The Doors &quot;satanic, sensual and demented.&quot; A sign of what was to come with artists like Iggy Pop, Marilyn Manson, Alice Cooper and many others. Some of the reviews are especially well-written, like one where the writer says the Doors music evokes images like the eye-ball slashing in Luis Bunuel's &quot;Un Chien Andalou.&quot; Like the music, the images are timeless, and evoke a poetic, deep persona who's presence is ever so strong in rock. Like The Beatles, The Doors are an unforgettable force, you hear them once and never forget. The foreward by Jerry Hopkins, who wrote &quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive,&quot; is also informative and has interesting things to say about the resurgence of Doors music. This is a must for any Doors fanatic and anyone who has ever been touched by the music and words.	2002-09-24
US	51086835	R2T2AILNF4EI8S	0425170454	520752026	Light My Fire: My Life with The Doors	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Alright.	I kinda suspected what kind of book this would be like when I saw Ray Manzarek's name as the author. Reading it, it became a cross between myth-making and hippie-babbling. A lot areas have Manzarek attacking Oliver Stone and his film \\"The Doors,\\" claiming it is fiction. Really? Then why should we even take Manzarek's claims as fact? Jim Morrison is not alive and therefore can't defend himself or set the record straight, Manzarek has proven to be a little \\"strange\\" when detailing Doors stories, oh, it's fun to read, of course, Jim Morrison is now first and foremost, a mythic icon of popular music. I suggest you read it but not ready to take it all in as the truth. Many parts seem to walk away from Morrison and The Doors' story and turn into weird, sometimes hard to understand hippie philosophies that have quickly died-out (Morrison was reported to dislike the hippie movement in the first place), it gets tiresome to hear Manzarek just say some \\"babblings,\\" especially when he tries to support the use of pot (he obviously hasn't seen the many teens today ruined by drug-use and still thinks acid is a \\"spiritual\\" thing), never really realizing that excess never did any good for Morrison, it just killed the guy. It is neat the way he incorporates classic Doors lyrics into the text, and there were some parts that though obviously fiction, were entertaining in a cinematic sort of way. I had a good laugh during the part where Manzarek describes sex for teens in the 50s. I suspect a lot of the text works for people who around in the 60s, but for those of us born in the current generation that embraces Doors music in a more powerful, emotional way (as seen in the bands the group has influenced like Creed, Stone Temple Pilots and The Cult), a generation that looks at the poetry and power of the music which is more timeless today than ever, the hippie stuff can get boring. When you listen to songs like \\"People Are Strange,\\" \\"Break On Through,\\" \\"Five To One,\\" \\"The End,\\" \\"When TheMusic's Over\\" and \\"Strange Days,\\" you don't get flower-power, you get violent, atmospheric, gothic and powerful experiences. \\"Light My Fire\\" is surely 60s myth-making at it's best, while Stone revealed an artist brought down by excess who was still brilliant, Manzarek tries to make it all sound innocent and yet mythic like Greek mythology with a dose of acid, what he describes doesn't fit with the picture. When you're talking about a guy who wrote lyrics even Marilyn Manson sings (check out his cool \\"Five To One\\" cover), I don't think hippie dreams is a fitting way to remember him.	2002-08-09
US	51086835	RFP5NDZTT9JWF	1560252669	573002312	The Doors: When the Music's Over: The Stories Behind Every Song	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great Read, Visually Enjoyable Book.	\\"When The Music's Over\\" is a great book dealing with the stories behind The Doors' songs. It is very well written with a deep insight into the music and legacy of Jim Morrison. Part of this is due to the fact that the book's consultant, Dave MiMartino is a big fan (he was even present at the infamous 1969 Miami concert where Morrison was accused of exposing himself in a pre-Marilyn Manson age). But those who look inside the book itself will be surprised that it is not just about the songs, it compiles comments by critics, poets, rockers and is a neat visual history of the band and its music. We get in detail stories behind the rise of the band, the impact they had on the L.A. scene even before they became famous. It closely looks at the influences Morrison had in life like poets in the tradition of Rimbaud and ancient shamanistic religions. \\"When The Music's Over\\" is a testament of the The Doors' importance in popular music, the book also goes into the period when the band still tried to release albums even after Morrison died (there is an interesting piece on how Iggy Pop sang \\"L.A. Woman\\" at a Morrison death anniversary event at the Whiskey A Go-Go in 1974). Visually this is an awesome read, there are photos for every subject and name, great shots of The Doors performing and of Morrison acting-out the theatrical touches so common today in rock music. And the writing done about each song is really good, with deep insight into the lyrics and inspirations. Immediately you feel like listening to each and every song. This is worth the price, there have been cases where the book has great pictures but bad writing as was the case with \\"Dark Star,\\" which had some valuable photos but the author seemed more resentful towards Morrison and his art than someone who would actually wanna write a book about it. Doors music is timeless and never loses it's power, on any given year, month or day you will find a rock band weather popular or underground, play one of their songs. Theyhave spawned many styles, theatrics, ideas and imitators. \\"When The Music's Over\\" is must for any Doors fan, rock fanatic or someone looking for a history behind a music that changed them, it proves that the music is indeed, not over.	2002-08-07
US	51086835	R1RPUUZK1GBKQI	0786700173	466155896	High Treason 2 (No. 2)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Good But Sometimes Gets Off Track.	Harrison Edward Livingston is certainly right in saying that a conspiracy killed John F. Kennedy. There is too much evidence that proves something strange and suspicious was going on in Dallas on November 22, 1963 and in Washington. His book, \\"High Treason 2,\\" a follow-up to the bestseller \\"High Treason\\" which Livingston wrote in collaboration with renowned JFK assassination expert Robert Groden, is both an informative, eye-opening investigative work and a slippery search for facts and answers. The areas dealing with the medical evidence are meticulous and very important with it's testimonies and detailed accounts of Kennedy's wounds and the evidence that the shot that killed him came from the front. There is a good deal of evidence that Martin Luthor King Jr.'s assassination was also plotted and Livingston provides some interesting insights into the FBI's harrassment of King at the hands of J.Edgar Hoover. He also makes you wonder about the facts behind the assassination of Robert Kennedy and the attempt on George Wallace. However, Livingston's fault is that he writes with a saintly-look at Kennedy and gets too paranoid at times. I can buy that King, Kennedy and Wallace were victims of shady doings, but to also say the attempts on Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan were results of conspiracies is a little too out there. Also the notion that even the Zapruder film is fake evidence makes for too much paranoia. But what shows Livingston to be more of a radical than just an investigator is his attack on Oliver Stone and \\"JFK,\\" claiming the movie is damaging to researchers when in fact, it aided in the release of more documents and many researchers, including Robert Groden (who even consulted on Stone's film) have called it a brilliant collage of assassination research material gathered by those trying to prove a conspiracy. Livingston also goes on to attack Jim Garrison, who in my opinion, is a social hero for speaking out and even pushed for the Zapruder film to be shown in colleges so young people would start asking questions. It is easier in this paranoia-driven age, when events like Watergate, Iran Contra and others have made our trust in the government dissimate, for Livingston to speak his ideas and conclusions. Garrison was one of the first to speak out publicly in a time when government conspiracy was still seen as an impossibility by a lot of ordinairy Americans and the government had an easier time shutting people up. He also denounces L.Flether Prouty and his claims eventhough Prouty worked in the intelligence community and military industrial complex for many years, Livingston hasn't. While he is an investigator, Prouty actually lived it. That said, \\"High Treason 2\\" in the end is well-written, with some good information and it sure works better than Gerald Posner's \\"Case Closed,\\" a fascist piece of lies. Livingston has uncovered a lot of valuable things, but once in a while, he tries to put too much icing on the cake, or case.	2002-06-23
US	51086835	R1EE519O39BGFP	0140260781	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Eye-Opening And Curtain-Shredding.	Those who thought Oliver Stone's film &quot;Nixon&quot; was mostly fiction and the Nixon loyalists who dismissed it as grotesque invention will have to eat their words after reading Anthony Summer's &quot;The Arrogance Of Power.&quot; It is finally the Nixon bio we have been waiting for. Incredibly well-detailed and researched, this book is a shattering document not just of the Nixon era, but of the American political landscape as a whole. Like Summer's previous book, &quot;Officual And Confidential,&quot; which exposed the dark secrets of FBI director J.Edgar Hoover, &quot;The Arrogance Of Power&quot; strips Richard Nixon away of mythic shields and dwelves into the truths behind the man's personality. Summers has done a great work of scholarship, silencing Nixonites like Stephen Ambrose who dare never to stare into the realities of government and power. This book is a fascinating exploration into the way the world really works and the way politics really works. The political world is a jungle and Nixon was one of the best players in it. The book explores Nixon's deep mental disturbances and his hate towards the Kennedys. It reveals Nixon could turn into a violent man and would even beat his wife Pat at times. Witnesses and testimonies are presented and it is clear Nixon could never escape history as he wished he could. &quot;The Arrogance Of Power&quot; takes us into the real world of government and it's dark corners, showing us a collage of characters like senators, presidents, gangsters, CIA spies and dictators. What we get is a portrait of a man who was a brilliant politician but disturbed and driven by the taste of power and his knowledge of what goes on behind the closed doors of the halls of government. Here is one of the great recent American biographies.	2002-06-14
US	51086835	R30O4I5SVUFWJE	0446602280	638210143	No One Here Gets Out Alive	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Interesting, Well-Assembled.	&quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive&quot; is always signaled as the definitive biography of Jim Morrison. I see it more as a good read, a very good read. There have been some plausible accusations of serious myth-making taking place in the writing of this book (Ray Manzarek is said to have crossed out &quot;the bad stuff&quot;). James Riordan's &quot;Break On Through&quot; is a better, more-detailed and captivating book in my opinion. But &quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive&quot; plays like what it has been accused of being, a great myth. It is kind of appropriate, considering Morrison is essentially a myth onto himself. His image has not died and the music is still alive and well among the youth (I'm not complaining, hot chicks love &quot;Light My Fire&quot; whenever I put it on). The book is a must for Doors fans, it is a document of the life and times of Morrison, of the era in which he flourished and it celebrates the power and poetry of his songs. It is a neat visual experience in the descriptions of Jim's stage performances and in his primal acts we see a blue-print for the madness we so regularly see in today's rock acts. Reading the book is like reading some kind of modern legend. It is also packed with some great photos of Jim and the band (some album covers are included). The story of The Doors has always been a big epic drenched in excess, insane genius, artistic tenderness and even tragic romance. You can see where all the great songs come from. Jim Morrison was a brilliant artist, his songs are timeless and he was also a fantastic poet capable of creating very captivating images in wonderful songs like &quot;The Crystal Ship&quot; and &quot;End Of The Night,&quot; he took us on dark, hypnotic journeys in &quot;The End&quot; and &quot;When The Music's Over&quot; and simply recorded some great music. &quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive&quot; celebrates more the image than the man, and yet is also a fascinating examination of the life. I will never tire of reading Jim's lyrics and hearing The Doors' best songs, &quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive&quot; is a book for fans who feel the same.Jim's lyrics and hearing The Doors' best songs, &quot;No One Here Gets Out Alive&quot; is a book for fans who feel the same.	2001-11-25
US	51086835	R342V4ESTP5K5I	0688119158	873795671	Break on Through: The Life and Death of Jim Morrison	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Rock Biography.	&quot;Break On Through&quot; is one of the great rock bios. It is an exciting, incredibly well-detailed read. The problem I tend to have with a lot of biographies is that the writer doesn't really capture the person's life, instead, the writer simply records what the person did and when blah blah blah. In other words, bad bios tend to be no less than simply boring. &quot;Break On Through&quot; is written with a cinematic energy and a true feel for the essence of the material. James Riordian and Jerry Prochnicky have made a brilliant study of one of the enduring rock legends, Jim Morrison. Riordan is also the writer of the brilliant biography of Oliver Stone and does an equally excellent job here. Jim Morrison is a very complex figure, an artist and captivating poet who will always remain a weird enigma in that no one will ever really be able to explain the REAL Morrison. So, this should be read as another study on an icon. But boy is it rich! It celebrates the excess, the depth, and the poetry behind the Morrison story (and The Doors music). Like the Oliver Stone movie, &quot;The Doors,&quot; one of course should not read this as the DEFINITIVE explanation, but as another point of view. &quot;Break On Through&quot; manages to transport the reader back to the era in which it takes place with a revolutionary energy that makes it a book that is hard to put down. But I also loved it because it has detailed observations of the music, lyrics and philosophies. The authors actually take time to even explore exactly what living by the &quot;Dionysian&quot; concept means. It also presents fascinating, interesting events and it works not only as a bio on Morrison, but as a study of the beginnings of a new form of rock music. The book also explores how The Doors and Morrison's stage attitudes and lyrical style produced what would eventually be the Punk movement and bands like The Cult, U2, Creed, Echo And The Bunnymen, even Alice Cooper and many others. It brilliantly portraysthe rise of an icon. It is also a great story, that of a brilliant artist who's drive to excess lead to his early demise and how he left the music world an influence that is immortal. Well written and brilliant, &quot;Break On Through&quot; is a must for those who like a good biography, rock fans and of course, Doors fans. Great book.	2001-09-09
US	51086835	R3F29X5N7Z5CBP	0700610359	709249692	Oliver Stone's USA: Film, History, and Controversy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great Work Of Debate And Intellectual Issues.	Oliver Stone is one of the most brilliant and provocative filmmakers working today and in this book we get a great taste of the debate over his work from both sides of the field. The book as a whole is very readable and never boring. Stone fans (like myself) and Stone bashers alike will get a good kick out of this book. The essay and responses to critics that Stone writes are fascinating, informative and speak to the free intellectual spirit and as in his great movies, Stone comes out as a man who really is aware of how the world works. I admire his writing here because it is an encouragement to people to educate themselves and read and do their own research and open their eyes. This book can be provocative intellectually and generally. The critics of Stone here also make some points, but not strong enough in my opinion, Stephen Ambrose comes off as a false historian who does not look at historical events from more than one angle or opinion. Stone easily dismisses his weak attacks. There is also a great deal of good dissection of the Stone films mentioned here which range from &quot;Salvador&quot; to &quot;Nixon.&quot; Rock enthusiasts will like the article dealing with Stone's film on Jim Morrison, &quot;The Doors&quot; and Stone's own comments on Morrison and his music. The most provocative articles are those on the two most fiery political films Stone has made, &quot;JFK&quot; and &quot;Nixon.&quot; These are provocative pieces because Stone challenges our views of official history and dares us to look behind the veils of the news, historians and some writings. This is not just a book for film buffs or Stone fans and critics, it is a book for people who enjoy good, smart debating and dissections of intellectual arguments. I enjoyed it because it is a breather for people looking for a really smart book. And yes, film buffs should definately read it because it deals greatly with how movies handle fact and fiction and it has important things to say on the role of the cinema in society and art in general. A fascinating, provocative and enjoyable book.	2001-07-01
US	51086835	R2HY99I565AE1I	0140168338	957217883	Jim Morrison: Dark Star	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Great Photos, Bad Writing.	This a strange book for me indeed. I loved the photos, especially those of The Doors performing, but the writing is bad and depressing. Dylan Jones fails to do anything to capture the essence of Jim Morrison's art and instead writes a book that basically paints a depressing picture. It appears he takes a lot of gossip as truth (though Morrison was known for his &quot;wild child&quot; activities) and I don't understand why so much effort was put into such a gorgeous-looking book when the writing burns the main character. Jones obviously does not understand or feel anything about The Doors considering he called &quot;Waiting For The Sun&quot; a disappointing work and trashes a great song like &quot;Not To Touch The Earth.&quot; I'm also surprised he has so many pictures of Morrison at concerts when he totally trashes his moves and wild performances on stage. This is a weird book in that it has so many great pictures, it is a photographic record, but the writing does not strive to dissect The Doors art, it only focuses on the negative aspects of the life of Jim Morrison. I very much more enjoyed the biography &quot;Break On Through&quot; which was smoothly written and treated the bad stuff with style and really dissected Morrison's work. Great photos, disappointing book.	2001-06-07
US	51086835	R23LFI5GLUG3K8	038530840X	857875594	The Doors: The Complete Lyrics	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Captivating Words For Captivating Songs.	&quot;The Doors: The Complete Lyrics&quot; is not so much a collection of songs as it is a collection of wonderfully strange, sensual, gothic, romantic and vibrant pieces of poetry. Jim Morrison was a poet, this is obvious when you compare The Doors songs with most songs from other bands. Here you find the great lyrics that make his songs hypnotic and deep. I especially enjoyed the lyrics for &quot;The End,&quot; which feels like a real poem. These are intricate compositions that may sometimes seem simple but say a lot of things. And there are also some simple, fun tunes like &quot;Love Me Two Times&quot; by guitarist Robby Krieger and &quot;Touch Me.&quot; And when reading the lyrics for &quot;Light My Fire,&quot; you realize they are nice, but the music is the oxygen that really brings them to life. It is surprising though, when you see how a lot of these songs stand on their own on paper. Works like &quot;Break On Through&quot; however, are better felt when listening to the exhilarating musical number. Still, songs like &quot;The Crystal Ship,&quot; &quot;Moonlight Drive,&quot; &quot;The End&quot; and even &quot;Wild Child,&quot; feel like voluptous modern poetry, more free and imaginative. It is sad to think that because of abuse of excess, Jim Morrison is dead, because reading these lyrics, you realize he had a wonderful mind for composing beautiful words.	2001-05-26
US	51086835	R3JNH1OHUYRTIS	0385474466	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	1	18	40	N	N	Dangerous Propaganda, Fascist.	Here is one of the most fascist pieces of propaganda ever produced. It belongs right up there with the film &quot;Triumph Of The Will.&quot; Gerald Posner has created a well-written work of fiction here that tries to pass itself as fact. Yes, some conspiracy theorists are really paranoid people, but look at the facts, read L. Fletcher Prouty's &quot;JFK&quot; (written by a man who was there behind the scenes) and look closer at the evidence and you will see that John F. Kennedy was killed as the result of a conspiracy. This book doesn't really present anything convincing that outdoes a great work like &quot;High Treason,&quot; and the explanation for the single-bullet theory is utterly ridiculous. Even the dramatic license in Oliver Stone's great &quot;JFK&quot; (and there isn't as much dramatic license as you may think listening to the DVD commentary) makes more sense and is more plausible. Kings are killed, a group of senators killed Caesar, men and power have always worked this way. We think coups only happen in Latin, South American countries when in reality, they take place here too only the American government does it more quietly to keep peace and order. Those who refuse to believe the truth about what happened are living in a la-la land like the one Posner creates here. This book does not understand how power and governments work and blames the crime of the century on a person too simple and lame to pull something like that off. The killing was just too well-planned, executed and organized for it to be just one guy. &quot;Case Closed&quot; is pure and simple, a book blind to the realities of the world. I think too many people are smart enough to not buy into this crap. &quot;Case Closed&quot; should be labeled as pleasant fiction. It is not as deep or convincing as &quot;High Treason&quot; or &quot;Crossfire&quot; by Jim Marrs. This is fascist propaganda at its...best.	2001-05-01
US	51086835	R14DQ8B00RVYUU	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Important. Gripping And Powerful.	&quot;As Nature Made Him&quot; is one of the important current works of non-fiction. It reads like a nightmare that ends in revelation and bittersweet triumph. It also exposes the wrongness behind some ideas and correctness in others. This is a brilliant book because it is so much. It is an important medical documentation of a case that will fascinate medical students and the normal reading populace alike for years to come, it is also a gripping tale of a family enduring great pain and still manage to stay together after going through, literally, hell. But what the book proves to the most to me, is that we are what we are not by how we are raised, but because God and nature (depending on your belief system) intended it that way. You simply cannot change what you are, and this story proves it. Our hero, David (what a courageous person to come out into the light after so much suffering!) clearly states that he never felt like a girl while growing up and was relieved when he was finally told the truth about his gender. As for &quot;Dr.&quot; John Money, he comes out as a perverse monster and liar. A guy who had a depressing childhood and in rebellion, turned into some sort of &quot;formal&quot; pervert. How can a true man of science and medicine give interviews to pro-pedophile journal groups? Money is obviously a shameless pornographer of science who deserves no praise at all. He basically destroyed a childhood and almost destroyed a family who was in desperation for help. He obviously took advantage of them for his own personal gains. &quot;As Nature Made Him&quot; is a riveting read. The author, John Colapinto, shows an incredible attention to detail and really does inform the reader on the issues discussed. This is a true must-read.	2001-04-06
US	51086835	R1MFWO2TN0XIW0	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Classic Horror With Style And Taste.	I think Stephen King said it best when he described &quot;Hannibal&quot; not as a sequel to &quot;Red Dragon&quot; or &quot;The Silence Of The Lambs,&quot; but as another part to a trilogy about abnormal psychology. So, I suggest that you read this great novel without thoughts of a contiuation to &quot;Lambs.&quot; &quot;Hannibal&quot; is stylish, hypnotic, classy, detailed and has touches of classic horror. Thomas Harris is a wonderful writer, with an exquisite eye to detail in his descriptions and thoughts, this adds a realism to the material that makes it scarier still. The characters are described with a clarity that never flounders and the dialogue is rich and convincing. &quot;Hannibal&quot; is also thrilling and fascinating. Harris never slows it down but keeps it flowing. It is also a gothic romance with images that stay in the imagination for a long time after you read the final chapter. I don't understand why some people flipped out over the ending, I thought it was devilishly entertaining and perversely romantic in the classic horror sense. What is a horror novel if it doesn't go to the limit? Books like William Peter Blatty's &quot;The Exorcist&quot; showed that what is scary is what seems more real, yet more extreme. I wish Harris would write more often instead of taking almost a decade to release a new novel. &quot;Hannibal&quot; is for those who like something with taste, intellectual horror if you will. Harris captures a true sense of evil and the dark corners of the world we live in. An exquisite read, the best suspense/horror novel in years. Exquisite.	2001-03-18
US	51086835	R2R7KNDX1KIITM	1556523661	451631295	The Director's Vision: A Concise Guide to the Art of 250 Great Filmmakers	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Visually Worth Looking At.	The worth of this book is the great visual quality to it. Every page has a film still regarding which director is being discussed. I do agree with some earlier reviewers on the writing's poor quality. The author seems to give his own opinions rather than actually examine the film director. Just read the section on Oliver Stone, he comments on Stone's style, yes, but then the whole writing is just made up of the author's personal thoughts on Stone. There isn't detailed examination of any director's work. But it's still a very interesting book and I recommend it to those who already know their stuff regarding cinema, this will just be a pleasant breeze for them. And the photos are wonderful especially the stills for Fritz Lang, Oliver Stone, Martin Scorsese, Akira Kurosawa and Sam Peckinpah. There are moments when the book is fascinating. There are some pictures you just can't keep your eyes off of which display how beautiful and rich cinema can be and how single images in a movie say a lot. Film buffs will like it, beginners, I suggest you a read a bit more before taking this book seriously.	2001-03-10
US	51086835	R35ORZW8XJYHVL	0684823691	18666983	Sightings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well-Written And Interesting.	&quot;Sightings&quot; is a very good book companion to the television series. Like the show, this book presents convincing evidence for UFOs, ghosts among other things. I didn't really come out a believer, but the book is very enjoyable. The areas that study ghostly hauntings are chilling at times and the sections on UFOs will have you raising new questions to what lies out there, or what is it that the government is doing, or hiding regarding these matters. There are interesting photographs and the writing is fast-paced and seeks more to inform the reader rather than make a sensation of the subjects. That's one thing I admired about the TV show, and this book, it doesn't make some big spectacle about the unexplained, but simply reports the facts and presents the evidence and testimony. That makes it more effective (and sometimes scarier) still. This book documents these events, for sensation watch &quot;Independence Day&quot; or read some science fiction novel. A really good book. Wether you're a believer, a non-believer, or just a person who likes to read on many different subjects, &quot;Sightings&quot; deserves a peak.	2001-03-06
US	51086835	R2K6G0B0FFAU9K	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Wonderful Novel.	&quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; is a wonderful little book that deserves to be read more than once. It is a wonderous journey into what a genius might be dreaming. Einstein falls asleep, and author Alan Lightman takes us into his dreams. This of course, is brilliant because anything is possible in the world of dreams and Lightman uses this as an excuse to give us wonderous vistas, touching, memorable stories and situations, and provocative, mind-opening ideas. The way in which he writes the words can make the book a hypnotic trip, and the images may even filter in your own dreams. He also doesn't write a dumb book, indeed, there is a lot of intellectual fire. &quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; is an enjoyable book for the thinking person. Also, look closely and you'll see that the book isn't only about dreams, physics or science at all, but about LIFE, the weird things in life and how important the smallest actions can be. &quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; can also be romantic, with great passages about the love lovers feel. I've read it about three times already and will surely read it sometime again. It's one of those special books where you find something new everytime you read it. It is a novel to cherish. &quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; can reach the part of your mind that thinks, and the area in the heart that feels. A masterpiece.	2001-01-28
US	51086835	R163RLZ738Z8GN	0767903501	671795868	Beethoven's Hair: An Extraordinary Historical Odyssey and a Scientific Mystery Solved	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating And Memorable.	&quot;Beethoven's Hair&quot; is a wonderful book. A little fascinating piece of history that keeps keeps the reader interested for it's entire length. What works so well about Russell Martin's book is that it combines so many story threads into one work. It convincingly explores the life of the musical genius Ludwig van Beethoven, the effect of his music in the hearts of millions, the power of music and art in general, and in a thrilling way it follows a lock of his hair through it's journey in history. There is true suspense when Martin writes about the people who tried to fight against the evil swelling up against them during World War 2 and how Beethoven's music played an important role in that struggle. Like a great detective story, &quot;Beethoven's Hair&quot; never reveals its secrets too quickly and keeps the reader fascinated. But the best chapters are the ones about Beethoven's life where we realize he was one of the few authentic geniuses music has produced. Fun, memorable, and sometimes moving, &quot;Beethoven's Hair&quot; is a great book.	2000-12-29
US	51086835	R2J9UULA17TDM0	0140255362	108426331	Kinski Uncut: The Autobiography of Klaus Kinski	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Wild, Fascinating.	Klaus Kinski, one of the greatest of all screen actors, takes us through a wild, dirty, sometimes insane yet philosophical trip in his autobiography, &quot;Kinksi Uncut&quot; (originally published as &quot;I Need Love&quot;). Kinski makes us explore his hard childhood up to his rising as a famous actor through stage and onto film. His writing shows no mercy and he obviously was not someone afraid to say what he thought to someone's face. It is unpleasant at times, and I think, that's what he wanted, for some of the writing to make you disturbed. The book also has a touch of dark comedy, especially when he attacks the legendary German film director Werner Herzog, calling him murderous and stupid (don't be taken in though. Herzog himself has stated that he helped Kinski find words in the dictionary to attack the director, so the book would sell and not be boring). There is vivid detail here, great stories and even eroticism (some good, some just plain unpleasant). This is a valuable biography because Kinski takes us into the actor's mind, into his art as he describes, for example, how for the Herzog film &quot;Aguirre, The Wrath Of God,&quot; he didn't use prosthetics for his menacing, hurt appearance. He looked crippled because he WANTED to be crippled. Here is a crazy artist, a man who lived life in all it's insanity. Though you may not agree with things he says, you must admit, it is a good book. Not for the squemish or conservatives. It stands along with Luis Buuel's &quot;My Last Sigh&quot; as one of the most memorable autobiographies ever written by a film artist.	2000-11-26
US	51086835	R1B10G3ZFYNVTM	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	2	10	N	N	A Masterpiece.	&quot;Hannibal&quot; is one of the best thrillers ever written. It is more than a simple crime novel, it is elegant, hypnotic, darkly romantic and artistically gothic. The negative reviews here are obviously by people who have no appreciation for the elegance, texture, and intelligence of this book. Their small, condensed minds should stay away, this is a book for those who savour the descriptions, the moods, the atmosphere and dialogue. Thomas Harris once again shows his brilliance by presenting a book that truly studies the mind and world of a monster. &quot;Hannibal's&quot; chills come from the surreality of it all, the realism, and the way Harris doesn't over-do it, but brilliantly describes the violence with the pen of a genius. The book is an example of real WRITING. What did the attackers expect? All and out, simple gore? Go read crap by wanna-be authors for that. &quot;Hannibal&quot; is for those who appreciate art, those who read &quot;Dante's Inferno&quot; and feel the passion and feelings. &quot;Hannibal&quot; deserves more than one reading because you find something new each time. I love how Harris writes with a poetic, clever style like the passage: &quot;A puff of air as Dr. Hannibal Lecter passes us. The great door creaks, closes with a thud we can feel in the floor. Silence.&quot; People have complained because the book doesn't resemble much &quot;Red Dragon&quot; or &quot;The Silence Of The Lambs.&quot; DU! Those two books were more about other killers and other people and Lecter was a mere supporting character, a memorable one, but a supporting character still. &quot;Hannibal&quot; is entirely about Lecter. If you want a real book to appreciate and read many times over, get this one, if you like crap, don't.	2000-10-01
US	51086835	R1ME8CU1D4GK8N	0941419681	962842550	Objects of Desire: conversations with Luis Bunuel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Look At A True Genius Of The Cinema.	This is probably the best collection of interviews with a filmmaker ever  published. It is not some retread to &quot;My Last Sigh&quot; but a great  read full of insight, intelligence, that typical Bu&ntilde;uel style and of  course, a study of great cinema. It's a fascinating book, where Bu&ntilde;uel  discusses his life and works and how he came to be inspired to make some of  his greatest films like &quot;Un Chien Andalou,&quot; &quot;Viridiana&quot;  and &quot;That Obscure Object Of Desire.&quot; And it's also great to read  as Bu&ntilde;uel discusses his philosophies of life and surrealism. The  interviewers create a great conversation with a genius and take us into his  mind. Some of the classic works of the cinema are dissected here in  intricate detail and Bu&ntilde;uel offers some sly humor to the discussions. A  surprise is that you realize that Bu&ntilde;uel's personal life is as interesting,  fascinating and incredibile as his movies. Some people may not want to take  a look at this book after reading &quot;My Last Sigh,&quot; thinking it's  basically the same stuff, well, it's not. Luis Bu&ntilde;uel was a very complex  man in his thinking and this book gives us a good tour of the man. A must  for lovers of great cinema and fans of surrealism and Bu&ntilde;uel. Lorca, Dal&iacute;,  and the surrealists are all discussed here, even the gruesome, fatal fates  of the two actors of &quot;Un Chien Andalou.&quot; Great book.	2000-09-15
US	51086835	RKR7UVEU1VGS	0786881577	544695333	Nixon: An Oliver Stone Film	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Informative And A Great Companion To The Film.	&quot;Nixon&quot; was, I think, the best film of 1995 (it was certainly  more important and fascinating than &quot;Braveheart&quot;)and here is a  great book that gives you a good glimpse not only into it's production, but  into the documents, the testomonies and brilliant artistry that make the  film what it is. It starts off with an interesting interview with the great  cinema genius Oliver Stone in which discusses the film's genesis (how  interesting that he passed on a film about Noriega for this movie). And  then come the fascinating, interesting and great essays by important  Nixon-era, Watergate figures like John Dean, E.Howard Hunt and one Cuban  CIA operative. The co-writers of the screenplay also contribute great  essays that explore Nixon and a history of political assassinations and  black ops within the American government and its overseas operations. The  screenplay itself is brilliant, mingling intrigue with drama and political  issues, not to mention thrilling history. Stone, as in &quot;JFK,&quot;  makes a fascinating study of politics and power with this movie. He also  makes a point about how our government conducts operations which involve  assassination, secret underdealings etc. just as much as any South American  or Central American country. &quot;Nixon: An Oliver Stone Film&quot; is a  must for film buffs, political film analysts and fans of Oliver Stone (me).	2000-08-29
US	51086835	R3H1JU5E1WWAZK	0679762051	963527230	My Dark Places	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent. Disturbing.	James Ellroy, author of great novels like &quot;L.A. Confidential,&quot; &quot;White Jazz&quot; and &quot;American Tabloid,&quot; goes through his own dark past in &quot;My Dark Places.&quot; This is a great read, and an  effective one too. Ellroy takes us into a dark and disturbing world of  murder, lust and perversion full of rich characters, chilling situations  and thrilling drama. And it's all true. Few memoirs are this good. Ellroy  manages to examine the events surrounding his mother's murder, his hard  early life and how it hellishly got out of control, but he also does an  examination of the nature of crime against women, and that area is the most  disturbing. Not only does &quot;My Dark Places&quot; give insight into the  brilliant writer that is James Ellroy and how his mother's death has  affected him, but into the chilling world of violence against women in  America and opens the eyes to how and why some of the women that are found  murdered end up there. &quot;My Dark Places&quot; is graphic, darkly  romantic, all too real and effective. A great book.	2000-07-12
US	51086835	R1XGUFKBE0CLPS	0394725018	39022544	My Last Sigh: The Autobiography of Luis Bunuel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Great Biography.	\\"My Last Sigh\\" is the most enrapturing biography ever left to us by a great filmmaker. Luis Bunuel remains one of the true masters of the cinema, a director with a distinctive style and taste that makes his movies both timeless and exquisite. His bio is like his films, a work filled with passion, freedom, violence and humor, and of course, surrealism. Here Bunuel describes his priviliged upbringing in Spain and his friendships with poet Federico Garcia Lorca and painter Salvador Dali. It is especially interesting to hear Bunuel speak of his appreciation for both these men, their brilliance and influences on him (Lorca introduced him to the world of poetry he writes). It is especially fascinating to read about his entrance into the surrealist movement and the anarchy and personal freedom the movement expressed. It is here where he and Dali make \\"Un Chien Andalou,\\" one of the classics of the cinema with the notorious shot of a razor slicing across a woman's eyeball, this was followed by the scandalous \\"L'Age D'or\\" which was banned for nearly 50 years. Bunuel is also a great tourist here, detailing in great fashion cultural differences and experiences as when he moves in exile to Mexico where he makes classics like the influental \\"Los Olvidados,\\" \\"Simon Of The Desert,\\" \\"The Exterminating Angel\\" and \\"Viridiana.\\" Bunuel reveals cultural realities of the Mexican populace that are as true today as then. This is a book that also breathes for a passion for life, in wonderful detail Bunuel dedicates chapters to simply the things he has enjoyed in life, appreciated and to those things which have obsessed him. There's a great chapter on his view about Love. He writes with an intellectual yet poetic and personal style that makes this book not stale at all but enjoyable and memorable. When one looks at his body of work, especially the European films like \\"Belle De Jour,\\" \\"Diary Of A Chambermaid,\\" \\"That Obscure Object Of Desire\\" and \\"The Phantom Of Liberty,\\" especially \\"The Discreet Charm Of The Bourgousie,\\" it is evident Bunuel was a driven, obsessed artist and this book also reveals he was a man of humor and good taste. This is required reading for any fan of the cinema and anyone who feels the true surrealist call.	2000-07-12
US	51086835	R1LUW3KAOB6694	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Gothic And Thrilling.	&quot;Hannibal,&quot; the third installment in Thomas Harris's exploration of serial murder that began with &quot;Red Dragon&quot; is a great read. It never fails to entertain, never lacks richness in detail and intelligence, and always manages to provide more than one good scare. Not only does he  convincingly continue the storyline that left off in &quot;The Silence Of  The Lambs,&quot; he also brilliantly takes us into the mind of Hannibal  Lecter. There is also a sense of elegant, gothic style here in the dialogue  and settings. Harris keeps you gripped here. &quot;Hannibal&quot; goes down  into the deep bowels of madness and perversion, Harris takes us through his  dark world where evil and the perverted lurks in every corner.  Frighteningly, you realize how real it all is. I don't understand how some  people were turned off by the ending, I thought it was surprising and  darkly amusing. I can't wait for the film adaptation being done by Ridley  Scott, continuing the film series that began with &quot;Manhunter&quot; and  continued with &quot;The Silence Of The Lambs.&quot; &quot;Hannibal&quot;  is intelligent, rich, darkly alluring, entertaining and yes, disturbing and  scary. Great work by a great writer.	2000-04-24
US	51086835	R916YI68F6RUO	0786706198	791112881	Bunuel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating, Involving Read.	\\"Bunuel\\" by John Baxter has received some bad press from some of the reviewers here, but this is not a bad book at all. It is probably the second best biographical book about Luis Bunuel right after, of course, \\"My Last Sigh.\\" Bunuel remains one of the giants of the cinema, a director who's films remain timeless and evocative, seductive and visceral, and sometimes funny. Baxter is not a bad author and elevates his subject to some great intellectual levels, exploring the depth of Bunuel's work and the philosophies, desires, madness and obsessions that spin madly at the center of this man's story. And yet, Baxter reveals that Bunuel was not some lunatic with a camera, he had surprisingly compassionate, funny human aspects, which is the case with most geniuses. Bunuel's life here plays like a great novel, filled with interesting characters from Bunuel's life like the painter Salvador Dali and the poet Federico Garcia Lorca. There is interesting information here, sometimes voyeuristic when we learn Lorca apparently tried to seduce Dali. The book is also a good examination of the films, because to understand Bunuel's mind, one must look at his masterpieces. There are fascinating moments when the book goes into the Surrealist movement and Bunuel's first two surreal films made with Dali, \\"Un Chien Andalou\\" (with the immortal image of a razor slicing across a woman's eye-ball) and \\"L'Age d'Or\\" (which has touches of De Sade). We follow Bunuel on his exile to Mexico where he makes the classic \\"Los Olvidados\\" which left an impact in many directors including, we learn here, Roman Polanski. Bunuel's work is a rich collage of visceral, seductive emotions and images as seen in works like \\"Viridiana\\" and \\"Belle De Jour\\" (the most famous erotic film ever) and the book makes good use of exploring all of the art. And yet, the human stories are also entertaining. A surprising thing that comes out is the love story between Bunuel and his wife Jeanne Rucar (who wrote a book about their marriage titled \\"Woman Without A Piano\\" which I wish someone would put back in print!) which is as involving as the stories of Bunuel's movies. There are comic moments, as when Mexican director Arturo Ripstein calls on Bunuel after seeing \\"Nazarin\\" and tells him he wants to be a director just like him. Bunuel gets anrgy, admits him and screens \\"Un Chien Andalou\\" and comments, \\"THIS is what I do.\\" Ripstein, of course, is one of Mexico's greatest directors. \\"Bunuel\\" is fascinating, enjoyable, entertaining and sometimes crazy. It manages to capture a man and his art and dissect the wonderful faults and positives of his genius.	2000-04-19
US	51086835	R605G4R959COY	0810832976	521458798	The Films of Oliver Stone	Books	5	3	13	N	N	Oliver Stone- Genius.	Oliver Stone is my favorite filmmaker, the man's a genius! All his films are powerful works that leave you impacted and thinking. &quot;JFK&quot; is a masterpiece of modern cinema, a study of power. &quot;Natural Born  Killers&quot; is also a great, great film that studies today's culture. Of  all the filmmakers, Oliver Stone remains the best, the smartest, most  creative and important filmmaker of our time.	1999-10-10
US	51086835	R2G3FZ21G5R394	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	1	13	29	N	N	Irrelevent, Bogus, Idiotic.	&quot;I Kissed Dating Goodbye&quot; is a really stupid book that will only confuse Christians and normal people alike. I'm a Baptist preacher's son, so I read the book with mucn interest, the result was me seeing Joshua  Harris is an empty-headed momma's boy. This formula here is totally dum and  illogical for today's times. What does Harris know about dating? He married  his high school sweetheart! He lives like an Amish person and not like  someone living in the real world. I shudder to think what he's kids are  going to be like. I totally agree with dating because it helps you  socially. Harris claims that not dating will help you avoid much personal  pain. What a loon! Everyone will experience some personal pain in their  life at some point! Besides it makes you smarter, wiser, and more careful.  I urge Christian men and women alike to not take this book seriously  because it's totally bogus. It's only for people living in those  over-conservative families. &quot;I Kissed Dating Goodbye&quot; should be  kissed bye bye. This guy can't even write good and  talks a load of  over-conservative bull. He clearly doesn't understand the Bible or isn't  even deep about anything in his &quot;faith.&quot; &quot;I Kissed Dating  Goodbye&quot; is trash for those who are really desperate. What's the deal  with not holding hands? That's stupid. I saw a special about him in  Dateline NBC and saw how their families followed them around when they went  out! That's dumb. A couple should be able to have privacy to speak openly  to themselves and have intimicy together, now that's real love.	1999-10-08
US	51086835	RTL80P4M5361R	067188087X	791978839	Official and Confidential: The Secret Life of J. Edgar Hoover	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Intriguing,Interesting, Disturbing.	&quot;Official And Confidential&quot; is a great work that serves as a document about the abuses of power due to one man's private perversions. Summers writes an incredibly powerful book that explores many, many  subjects. Never did I think one man could have so much control, I was  proven wrong by this great work. J.Edgar Hoover was a man with mental  problems that were secret perversions, he used it to his use. This book is  like watching a great movie. It has all the elements of a great dramatic  thriller. We explore the shadowy truths behind the assassinations of JFK,  Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King. Even the death of John Dillinger is  questioned here. &quot;Official &amp; Confidential&quot; can also serve as  a study of the perversions of power and government. The myth of the  conservative 50s and 60s is shattered here. There was more going on behind  the curtain of power than we knew. This is a masterpiece.	1999-10-07
US	51086835	R1C8DC7RAZ7BLX	0312964293	208680181	I Have Lived in the Monster: Inside the Minds of the World's Most Notorious Serial Killers (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Effective And Disturbing.	Robert Ressler is a man who has fought society's most evil spawns and knows how to tell his story through writing. This is more chilling and effective than let's say, &quot;Red Dragon,&quot; only because what's in  here is true. This is an important study of what's going on in society's  dark corners. He paints frightening portraits of some of the best-known  killers like John Wayne Gacy and Jeffrey Dahmer. Ressler tells their  stories with disturbing detail. The book is gruesome, yes, but then how  else can one understand the nature of the monster? &quot;I Have Lived In  The Monster&quot; takes the reader through a disturbing, effective,  informative, and chilling journey into the heart and mind of evil. A really  important book.	1999-10-05
US	51086835	RYQYCH5FH569B	0425166899	163667157	The Murder of Tutankhamen	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Great And Informative As Well As Intriguing Work.	&quot;The Murder Of Tutankhamen&quot; is a very well-written book that never bores you and keeps you reading. Brier presents not only the facts and evidence about Tut's murder, but also gives an interesting lesson on  Egypt's history and he makes clear how the factors that killed Tut came to  be. This is a book that is incredibly packed with information, fatcs, and  evidence. It feels more like an exotic detective novel. I was totally  thrilled! Never has a book based on fact interested me so much. Books like  these should be read in schools and studied by all interested in great,  epic history. Brier is a fantastic investigator who puts together a puzzle  full of betrayal, intrigue, romance, murder and conspiracy. I was also  surprised to find out thing I never imagined, like the murder of the Haitit  prince. &quot;The Murder Of Tutankhamen&quot; is a lush, informative work  that deserves wonderous praise. I highly recommend it.	1999-09-30
US	51086835	R3DU6WHS5OWNQZ	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Gothic, Elegant, Thrilling.	Thomas Harris is undeniably one of the greatest writers of our time. Here he presents another stunning venture into the mind of evil that equals &quot;Red Dragon&quot; and &quot;The Silence Of The Lambs.&quot;  &quot;Hannibal&quot; is original, gothic, artistic, elegant, and yes,  frightening. But it's also really thrilling. I believe this is an excellent  sequel to &quot;The Silence Of The Lambs&quot; because it expands the world  of these characters. I also will never get tired of reading about Hannibal  Lecter and his small, pointy teeth and long, snake-like tongue. Harris  understands the nature of evil like William Peter Blatty with &quot;The  Exorcist.&quot; &quot;Hannibal&quot; seems all too realistic which gives a  better effect. This is also a well-researched novel with lots of  interesting situations, characters, and places. The gore and violence here  are well-handled. No one will ever write serial killer novels like Harris!  This is, the best novel of the year. WAIT, WHAT&quot;S THAT COMING THROUGH  MY WINDOW? IT&quot;S HANNIBAL LECTER! AH! HELP!	1999-09-27
US	51086835	R1C7HRN1ENOAY0	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An Intriguing, Exciting Novel That Makes You Think.	Finally somebody writes a REAL novel about the Rapture. As a Baptist preacher's son, I have seen too many writers make some stupid books that assume to know the Bible but don't. Here we have a novel that's full of  wonderful characters, powerful situations, and frightening predictions. All  that's left is that they make the movie version! I'm tired of cheap  Christian films that go nowhere, if they adapted this book, you wouldn't  believe how many people would watch with interest! &quot;Left Behind&quot;  even has a sweet touch of romance which I really loved. But what I loved  the most was the dramatic qualities. Scenes here are full of wonderful  intensity, like the one near the end when we realize the true nature of  Nicolae Carpathia. This is a groundbreaking work that should inspire many  other writers. Also, &quot;Left Behind&quot; may be the closest anyone has  come to writing an accurate and plausible depiction of the Rapture and it's  outcomes. This sure beats Joshua Harris's load of bull, &quot;I Kissed  Dating Goodbye.&quot;	1999-09-26
US	51086835	R2WDR87LWZ29J9	0786700173	466155896	High Treason 2 (No. 2)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Informative, Intriguing, An Important Book To Read.	&quot;High Treason 2&quot; is a great companion piece to &quot;High Treason.&quot; Sure, there are some allegations in here that seem a little, too big to be true, but if you really look, you realize they probably are.  This is a convincing study of the way politics really works. It dissects  the perversions in our system and uncovers the shocking truth. I was  surprised when I read about the amount of evidence that shows that Arthur  Bremer might not be the only person to blame for the shooting of George  Wallace. There is just too much in here that you cannot go against. I hope  many people take the time to read this book. It crushes Gerald Posner's  &quot;Case Closed.&quot; &quot;High Treason 2&quot; is an important and informative book that shows the bitter truth about America's government  and system of power and control.	1999-09-25
US	51086835	RGAWS31FB4FWC	1576736520	420233986	I Kissed Dating Goodbye : The Study Guide	Books	1	5	22	N	N	Great Book To Laugh At!	I am a Baptist preacher's son, and when I read Joshua Harris's &quot;I Kissed Dating Goodbye,&quot; I just cracked up at how dumb this book is! It's absolutely illogical and wrong for our time and age. If Harris  believes he can shape modern courtship with this load of bull, then he  should pen books for the Amish! He's one of those over-conservative types  who piss me off all the time with their crouching away from the real world.  He would probably have nightmares after watching &quot;Natural Born  Killers&quot; (a masterpiece, now that's a study of today's society)! I  agree with his thinking in that, we should not have a dating life full of  immorality. But the rest is hogwash. I'm a Hispanic, who lives a different  lifestyle than the world of Harris. I would like to see him in my shoes, as  a preacher's son, who faces more hardship than someone like him. I'm all for dating, and acting with moral boundaries. But &quot;I  Kissed Dating Goodbye&quot; is an illogical book for our times and doesn't  work for everyone. If you follow this formula, you must be really, really,  really desperate. This guy has been living in a dreamworld of  irrationality. I prefer to sit down and read Tim LaHaye &amp; Jerry B.  Jenkin's &quot;Left Behind&quot; series anyday than this load of bulls--t!	1999-09-23
US	51086835	R3AAS85WV6GKSF	0312078838	307095910	Whoever Fights Monsters	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Chilling, Disturbing, Effective.	Robert Ressler's &quot;Whoever Fights Monsters&quot; is superior to John Douglas's &quot;Mindhunter&quot; because this book more deeply understands the nature of evil. It is a dark trip into the minds of the predators that  prey on society. It understands the abyss and the savage darkness we face  today in age everytime we leave the house or more frighteningly, go back  into it. Ressler is a master profiler who deeply understands what it all  means, this killers. This is a book all should read. &quot;Whoever Fights  Monsters&quot; understands the mind of the monster and what lurks in it. I  was chilled reading this, it's more effective than fiction.	1999-09-22
US	51086835	R15F8DIQOMVMAX	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Effective Study Of The Nature Of Evil.	William Peter Blatty's &quot;The Exorcist&quot; is the best novel I have ever read. It's intense and gripping as well as chilling. Blatty also has a great writing style that makes you enjoy the book even more. The characters  are very well-crafted. But I loved the fact of how deep this novel actually  was (and still is). It's an intense study of what lengths evil will go to  manifest itself. I being Baptist preacher's son was glad at how Blatty  understood the philosphical and emotional areas of the story. But I also  loved how incredibly he captures the nature of evil here. This is the best  horror novel ever written.	1999-09-22
US	51086835	RHIXO41KNYYC7	0786705787	272877365	High Treason: The Assassination of JFK and the Case for Conspiracy	Books	5	31	36	N	N	One Of The Most Important Books Ever Written.	&quot;High Treason&quot; is a document written in blood about how government really works. Every American interested in their rights and in our system, should read this book with care. &quot;High Treason&quot; is a  magnificent work because it understands the structure of power and how  powerful men work. I have not read a more convincing book on the conspiracy  to kill JFK. Posner and Livingston present an enormous amount of convincing  evidence. I would place this book by Oliver Stone's masterpiece,  &quot;JFK.&quot; &quot;High Treason&quot; is an important book that I think  should be read in schools. Not so much as to educate on the Kennedy  assassination, but on the workings of our government and how power really  works. I'm glad it has been republished with new information. I was so  enfuriated by Gerald Posner's load of shit, &quot;Case Closed.&quot;  &quot;High Treason&quot; REALLY looks for the truth. And in the end, is  disturbing.	1999-09-21
US	51086835	R1QL4MBK649YD7	0553569309	419519919	The Death and Life of Superman	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Thrilling Read!	Roger Stern's &quot;The Life &amp; Death Of Superman&quot; is a thrilling, action-packed adventure that I enjoyed from the first page to the last. It's almost like watching a movie! This novel has all the great elements of  a great story: Romance, action, bone-crunching battles, and thrilling  drama. I recently read Cinescape and read how the Superman movie project  has gone down the tubs. They should simply adapt this booK! Imagine the  incredible movie this novel would be! All the characters here are really  interesting and the storyline is complex, intelligent, and full of some  dynamite action sequences. &quot;The Death &amp; Life Of Superman&quot; is  superior to the comic book series it is based on!	1999-09-20
US	51086835	R320GZ2SHN0W2X	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Masterpiece!	I have read so many &quot;Star Wars&quot; novels that try to capture the feeling and storytelling power of George Lucas's dazzling world. Steve Perry's thrilling, emotional, and action-packed novel, &quot;Shadows Of The  Empire,&quot; is the best I have ever read. I even it enjoyed more than  Timothy Zahn's &quot;Heir To The Empire.&quot; This novel is stylish, full  of great situations and fun to read characters. There's also a touch of  eroticism which I really enjoyed since sexual situations rarely appear in  &quot;Star Wars&quot; books. Perry has written a masterpiece that deserves  to be read more than once. It's just total fun from beginning to end and it  also has a touch of conspiratorial, underworld intrigue. This is how a  &quot;Star Wars&quot; novel should be written!	1999-09-20
US	51086835	R3R2T4WG1EWQ0F	0380778033	781000795	The Truth about the UFO Crash at Roswell	Books	1	5	44	N	N	This isn't Science Fact! This is Science Fiction!	I read &quot;The Roswell UFO Crash&quot; and laughed. I read &quot;The Truth About The UFO Crash At Roswell&quot; and laugh even more. How can these two guys actually believe that the government would do something like  this?! I am a firm beliver in conspiracies such as the JFK assassination,  but I cannot be convinced that little green men have been visiting the  Earth and don't even make formal contact. Everything in this book is more  paranoid than an episode of &quot;The X-Files!&quot; It gets so paranoid to  a degree that you notice it's all garbage used to sell books. Let's say  that the government is covering up Alien contact, why should they with so  many sightings and cases of Alien Abduction? Them covering it up is a waist  of time because we already know the truth! Hell, today it would even be  more stupid with the degree of paranoia the country has reached! I say read  the book, but pretend you're reading an &quot;X-Files&quot; novilazation.  It's more fun.	1999-09-16
US	51086835	RN36B3HJMQAOK	0553572601	460004701	Batman: Knightfall	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun And Exciting!	I am so tired of novels based on comic books that are too serious. &quot;Batman: Knightfall&quot; by Dennis O'Neil is a fun ride of a read. It transports us into the strange and wonderful world of Batman the way I  imagine it to be. He writes the characters wonderfully. But I love this  novel because it also has the elements of a great movie. I say that if  Hollywood really wants to make a movie that accurately captures Batman's  world with the look and feeling, then they should get Tim Burton or Joel  Schumacher to read this book. &quot;Batman: Knightfall&quot; is intriguing,  action-packed, and just a fun read. I was never bored by this book and  recommend it for someone bored of serious books, who wants to escape.  &quot;Batman: Knightfall&quot; is also noirish, it's like watching  &quot;Dark City&quot; again. The settings are wonderfully gothic, exotic,  thrilling, and vastly entertaining. This is a book that has drama, romance,  intrigue, and magnificent suspense. This looks and feels like a movie, and  that is what I loved most about it.	1999-09-15
US	51086835	R1QKFO8XKIS59	0836236882	115493284	Roger Ebert's Video Companion 1998 (Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Informative	Roger Ebert, by my opinion, is the greatest living film critic out there writing today. He brings a touch of intellectuality to his reviews. They are really informative and interesting. Those who say they are too long  must not enjoy reading or being well-informed on a film's intellectual  issues. Of course, like a good film critic, I don't always agree with his  ratings (I totally disagree with his arguement on giving four stars to  &quot;The Last Temptation Of Christ&quot;). But mostly I do, and his video  guide is the best out there. I also enjoyed the fact that he keeps old  reviews in print. It's interesting to read his comments on films such as  &quot;Scarface,&quot; &quot;JFK,&quot; &quot;Natural Born Killers,&quot;  and &quot;Apollo 13.&quot; Ebert embodies in his books how film criticsm  should be approached. He makes Leonard Maltin look like a momma's boy or  boy scout (he obviously didn't understand the message in &quot;Natural Born  Killers&quot; and obviously coulden't reach the peak of intelligence Ebert  shows here). In the area of video guides, Ebert's continues to be the best.  I hope he keeps them coming!	1999-09-14
US	51086835	REGWH21GUKKED	0836268318	785117512	Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook 1999 (Serial)	Books	5	22	33	N	N	Fabulous!	Roger Ebert's &quot;Movie Yearbook 1999&quot; is the best guide out there today. I am so tired of Leonard Maltin, a critic who understands nothing of the art of films (he gives three stars to &quot;Brazil&quot; but only one  and a half to &quot;Scarface&quot;)! Here Ebert shows how one must approach  critiquing the art of movies. I myself am a film critic and use Ebert's  guide as a sort of book for study. I love his writing style and how he  makes clear why a film is bad or good. I also love the fact that he adds  intellectuality to his reviews. They are very informative and packed with  interesting facts. This is a fabulous book because it also includes essays,  interviews, and a list of all films in his previous guide editions along  with star rating. I don't care if his reviews are long, I love to read all  the interesting comments he puts. Roger Ebert is the greatest film critic  around. Leonard Maltin seems like a sissy compared to Ebert and his  magnificant mind for film criticsm.	1999-09-14
US	51086835	R3HOCVJBGXUL89	0156006510	285087058	Killing  the Dream: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.	Books	1	14	50	N	N	Another Posner Deciever	I hoped Gerald Posner would stay away from &quot;the real world&quot; after publishing the ridiculous and idiotic &quot;Case Closed.&quot; But now I am enfuriated to see him smear one of the most significant and  memorable and sad events of American history: The assassination of Martin  Luthor King Jr. This is a book that cleverly decieves the mind with some  clever lies. It is impossible to believe that James Earl Ray, a low-life  criminal, would kill someone like King knowing full well, the consequences.  The evidence, by my opinion, strongly suggests that J.Edgar Hoover, one of  the most vicious racists in power, was behind King's murder. Hoover had the  motive and capabilities to order King's killing. Posner doesn't know  history as well as he thinks he does. He looks like a rookie, a smart alec  compared to true investigators like Robert Groden, Mark Lane, and the great  filmmaker, Oliver Stone. Posner is a puppet, a messenger boy for the  conspirators. He might be doing their work for them without even knowing  it. As he demonstrated with &quot;Case Closed,&quot; Posner doesn't  understand the workings of power and needs to just write fiction novels  instead of passing his work for the truth. I urge readers to read this  idiotic piece of work without accepting everything in it. Look deeper into  the mud and you will find the truth. Posner will probably follow this  garbage with a book about how Sirhan Sirhan alone killed Bobby Kennedy, or  how Arthur Bremer alone shot George Wallace. I shudder to think what  society's way of thinking or acceptance of official information would be,  if they believed Posner's dangerous, stupid, blind, and decieving work.	1999-09-14
