US	51083005	R3EOZ15SXETF1M	0314242139	418416699	Evidence (Set of 5 Audio Cassettes) (The Outstanding Professor Series)	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Veryfasttalkingprofessorthatyoucannotunderstand	I know what the first guy was talking about. I'm in my last semester and evidence is my last exam. I have always used audio lectures to prepare for exams and the Sum & Substance series has always been good. But this one is horrendous. This is not a professor giving a lecture, this is an auctioneer selling cattle. I never imagined someone could speak so fast. Sometimes his talking becomes just a rapid-fire spurt of syllables and he sounds much like a machine gun. There's no time to take notes or think about what he's saying. Avoid these tapes.	2005-05-02
US	51083005	R1QG55JC01YKNE	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Makes a dull subject come alive	Bill Bryson is a great writer. I've noted before how his talent is to make the most mundane subject come alive with wit and insight. In \\"A Short History of Nearly Everything\\" he works his magic on science. For most people, there couldn't be more boring subjects than quantum physics or plate tectonics. Bryson, however, creates a page-turner by focusing on the quirky characters of science and their improbable discoveries. He also conveys a real sense of wonder and amazement about the word around us that is very endearing and contagious. If you want a fun read that will also teach you more than a thing or two, this is the book.	2005-02-26
US	51083005	RHET83RTZA5W	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Enjoyable, but it's not Chandler	I picked up \\"The Maltese Falcon\\" after going on a Raymond Chandler binge. Dashiell Hammett seemed like the next logical step and this particular book had come highly recommended by many friends. So I think my expectations where too high, and maybe I'm unfairly comparing Hammett too much to Chandler, because I wasn't satisfied.<br /><br />For one thing, I think Chandler's use of first-person narrative is the way to go for detective stories. With Philip Marlowe you know exactly where he stands -- that he's a straight-laced guy -- in large part because you know what he's thinking. Sam Spade's morality is much more ambiguous and you would think that ambiguity would make him a more interesting character, but it somehow doesn't. He acts irrationally sometimes and it's never explained. This might make him a complicated character, but it is ultimately unsatisfying.<br /><br />The story is good enough, but Hammett does not have the incredible turns of phrase that fill Chandler's books. In many cases the dialog seems to drag as some character makes the same point repeatedly. In the end, however, the book is enjoyable; a noir 1930's comes alive, and that's a big plus. I will give Hammett another chance.	2005-02-26
US	51083005	R1FG1QMG2N6QP	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	88	99	N	N	Balanced and thorough	This is a very even-handed and thorough look at Che Guevara's life. As an anti-communist Cuban-American, I approached this book with skepticism, but ultimately thought it to be sound. John Lee Anderson is obviously sympathetic to Che, but how can you expect a biographer not to be. Additionally, I suspect that such sympathy is what allowed him access to previously unreleased documents held by the Cuban Council of State, as well as Che's widow. Anderson doesn't squander the opportunity and produces a scrupulous, yet eminently readable account. If you are looking to learn more about the Che--the good and the bad--this is undoubtedly where start.	2005-02-03
US	51083005	R2W9G775EHU22Y	0801863368	429688696	Chimpanzee Politics: Power and Sex among Apes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Greatly informs evolutionary psychology	Chimpanzee Politics tells the story of a colony of chimps in captivity. Frans De Waal observed them for years and soon saw that each chimp had a personality and that there was a definite pattern to their behavior. He shows that they have innate desires and goals and that they act politically to attain them. The astounding thing is that the chimps were seemingly very human in their actions.<br /><br />This book is very accessible and engaging. From the perspective of evolutionary psychology, De Waal shows an unquestionable chimp nature at work. It is then not much of a leap to suggest that there is a human nature and that, like the chimps, we act predictably and politically in pursuit of our goals.<br /><br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in human behavior or evolutionary psychology. It is a great piece of popular science writing that is nevertheless very serious.	2005-01-22
US	51083005	R4T4B17519G8K	0393324613	317792926	Thinking Like Your Editor: How to Write Great Serious Nonfiction and Get It Published	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Great guide for first-time nonfiction writers	If you plan to write a nonfiction book, you should first read this guide by Susan Rabiner and Alfred Fortunato. It is useful because it talks you through the process of submitting a book proposal to a publishing house and tells you what to expect during the writing and publication process. The authors disabused me of some mistaken notions that I had about how books are published. This is why this book is most useful before you begin to do anything with your project.<br /><br />The book's key point is to pin down exactly who your audience is and to then write for that audience. It sounds simple enough, but it actually turns out to be a much more profound idea. Without a clear audience that can be captured, you won't get a book published. It also teaches you to determine what question your book is answering and to then write a story that answers the question. Again, this seems like common sense, but we have all encountered books that are bad because their point is unclear or because their is no narrative.<br /><br />For first-time nonfiction authors, this quick read is full of good advice. It is very honest about what you can expect, and helpful in reaching your goals.	2004-12-06
US	51083005	RIFDVGSLTN88J	0813338263	124449081	This Is Cuba: An Outlaw Culture Survives	Books	4	43	48	N	N	A bit apologetic, but a good first-hand account	Ben Corbett's \\"This is Cuba\\" is a frustrating read, at least for a Cuban-American with family still living on the island. On the one hand Corbett lived in Cuba, lived among the people, and contributes an undeniable first-hand account of life there. On the other, he refuses to make a clear judgment about the sociopolitical system he recounts.<br /><br />The book's thesis is that Castro's regime has so perverted incentives, that every Cuban, in one way or another, breaks the law every day. That in order to survive, Cubans must be outlaws. But rather than condemn such a system, Corbett sheepishly asserts that this is only the result of misapplied socialism, and that if only things were done better, it would all work out.<br /><br />The book is also riddled with incorrect translations from Spanish that make you wonder about the rest of the book's foundations. It also contains many inaccurate cultural references, such as calling La Virgen de la Caridad Cuba's \\"patron saint\\"; she is the Virgin Mary. It is frustrating that most American readers will not catch the mistakes.<br /><br />Despite these criticisms, however, I would still recommend this book. Corbett lived in the island, saw what went on with his own eyes, and such an eyewitness account is very valuable. Even if he sometimes equivocates, his descriptions of crumbling buildings, unscrupulous block snitches, and the resilient character of everyday Cubans is good.<br /><br />One important theme Corbett draws out in this book is how the Castro regime has become completely dependent on the tourism trade and has made the Cuban people completely subservient to that interest. First-person stories of this development are key to understanding today's Cuba.	2004-11-30
US	51083005	R2KE39GJCWZ9X4	1590593812	652047750	Web Standards Solutions: The Markup and Style Handbook (Pioneering Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	All you need to learn CSS	This is an indispensable book for folks who are familiar with HTML, but who want to take it to the next level and learn CSS and XHTML. The lessons are very practical and the methods are explained very clearly. While this book can be a reference, I read it through. It prepared me to implement a simple, clean CSS-based redesign of my website without having to refer to any other sources. Additionally, the way Cederholm explains things (by comparing different methods to achieve the same end), he makes you realize why standards-based design is superior. After you read this book, you won't be able to believe how inelegant and inefficient your traditional HTML design has been.	2004-11-29
US	51083005	R2E50409UDPUID	0865475814	104815263	The Outlaw Sea: A World of Freedom, Chaos, and Crime	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating look at the lawlessness of the sea	I picked up William Langewiesche's The Outlaw Sea after having read his compelling series of articles for the Atlantic Monthly that make the bulk of this book. The tale of modern-day piracy he explored in the Atlantic was amazing and something I had never thought possible before. In this book, Langewiesche expands on his thesis: that the sea is immune to the laws of man.<br /><br />With the probing, empathic narrative of an investigative journalist, Langewiesche shows how modern shipping is almost completely unregulated, run by shadowy figures, and accountable to no one. The result is piracy on the open seas, official corruption, and environmental havoc. For instance, he explains how when megaships reach the end of their lives, they are rammed onto the coast of India where workers take apart the polluted hulls for scrap. Langewiesche notes the devastation to beach and the unsafe conditions the workers face. But he also points out that workers are far better off for having these jobs than they otherwise would be working at best in subsistence agriculture. He also poignantly recounts the stories of the Kristal and the Estonia, victims of legal unaccountability and the cold viciousness of the sea.<br /><br />Langewiesche outlines the bureaucratic impotence, and sometimes obstructionism, of the international system regulating the oceans, but he offers no recommendations or solutions. It seems he doesn't think there is a solution, and he is sadly convincing in this pessimistic outlook.<br /><br />If you read Langewiesche's Atlantic articles, you have already read much of this book, but it might be still worth getting it if only for the final chapter on India. Otherwise, this book is wonderfully written and very interesting.	2004-09-13
US	51083005	R1BC3WEU9DKKUX	2864602555	606600301	R. Chandler - The Big Sleep (French Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The master of simile and cynicism	I picked up The Big Sleep after the author of one of my favorite new authors of last year, Richard K. Morgan, was compared left and right to Raymond Chandler. The comparison was apt, and Morgan should be flattered, because Chandler is a genius.<br /><br />This book is Chandler's first and it introduces his hero, Philip Marlowe, a smart-mouthed, hard-boiled private dick who is straight as an arrow. The mystery is a wonderful tale, but what makes this book great is the noir writing. The characters are all cynical and full of wonderful 1930's slang. The first person narrative is also laden with delicious similes: \\"I was as empty of life as a scarecrow's pockets.\\"<br /><br />Five stars for Chandler and this wonderful book.	2004-08-26
US	51083005	R1K4RJW1BXYC14	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Master of simile and cynicism	I picked up The Big Sleep after the author of one of my favorite new authors of last year, Richard K. Morgan, was compared left and right to Raymond Chandler. The comparison was apt, and Morgan should be flattered, because Chandler is a genius.<br /><br />This book is Chandler's first and it introduces his hero, Philip Marlowe, a smart-mouthed, hard-boiled private dick who is straight as an arrow. The mystery is a wonderful tale, but what makes this book great is the noir writing. The characters are all cynical and full of wonderful 1930's slang. The first person narrative is also laden with delicious similes: \\"I was as empty of life as a scarecrow's pockets.\\"<br /><br />Five stars for Chandler and this wonderful book.	2004-08-25
US	51083005	R1XU4XXCMW8R61	0394758277	283946848	Farewell, My Lovely	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Noir perfection	I started reading Raymond Chandler after the author of one of my favorite new authors of last year, Richard K. Morgan, was compared left and right to him. The comparison was apt, and Morgan should be flattered, because Chandler is a genius.<br /><br />Farewell, My Lovely is Chandler's second book, and features his hero, Philip Marlowe, a smart-mouthed, hard-boiled private dick who is straight as an arrow. I had read that The Big Sleep, Chandler's first book, was his best, and that they descended in quality chronologically. But after reading this book, I know that is wrong. This is one of the best stories I've read in a long time. not only is the wonderful noir narrative there, but the mystery is first-rate.	2004-08-25
US	51083005	R24WDUL4QDCHOV	0684870533	425722098	Who Are We: The Challenges to America's National Identity	Books	4	200	229	N	N	A hispanic recommends	As a Hispanic American, I was a bit conflicted with Samuel P. Huntington's \\"Who Are We?,\\" but I ultimately enjoyed it. His premise is that we are now seeing a wave of immigration like none before. First in its sheer numbers, but more importantly in the fact that America has never before had so many immigrants from one non-English language and culture come at the same time.<br /><br />By 2050, Hispanics are projected to be the majority of the population. Huntington never says that this is a bad thing per se, but he makes a great case that immigrants today are not assimilating into American culture like they have in the past. Today they keep their language, their culture, and often their foreign citizenship as well. This is only a problem if you believe that white Anglo-Saxon protestant culture, which immigration is ostensibly eroding, is superior and at the core of American greatness. Huntington certainly seems to believe this; only time will tell if he is right.<br /><br />While I agree with him on so many points (bilingual education in public schools, for example, which is really education in Spanish), I'm not sure I share his general concern. We are experiencing a major demographic shift, and affirmative action does distort the American dream, but I'm not sure that future generations of Hispanic Americans will not assimilate into a (modified) American culture.<br /><br />I  am an American first and foremost. This is the case probably because I was born and raised here. But Spanish was nevertheless my first language, and my folks didn't become citizens until this year. If I ever have children, they will certainly be even more American than me. Despite Huntington's copious statistics, I don't see how a future generation of immigrants' children, born and raised in the U.S., will not pick up the English language and have at least the same love for this country that your average white suburban disaffected teen has.<br /><br />While packed with quotes jarringly split with attribution, and so many detailed facts that would have better been presented in footnotes, \\"Who Are We?\\" is nevertheless an important book. Huntington's credentials are enough reason to read it, but if you are interested in the future of this country you should read it, too.y split with attribution, and so many detailed facts that would have better been presented in footnotes, \\"Who Are We?\\" is nevertheless an important book. Huntington's credentials are enough reason to read it, but if you are interested in the future of this country you should read it, too.	2004-08-23
US	51083005	RIILZRRE7DJ5T	5551189627	652062438	The Big Sleep	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A master of noir	I picked up The Big Sleep after the author of one of my favorite new authors of last year, Richard K. Morgan, was compared left and right to Raymond Chandler. The comparison was apt, and Morgan should be flattered, because Chandler is a genius.<br /><br />This book is Chandler's first and it introduces his hero, Philip Marlowe, a smart-mouthed, hard-boiled private dick who is straight as an arrow. The mystery is a wonderful tale, but what makes this book great is the noir writing. The characters are all cynical and full of wonderful 1930's slang. The first person narrative is also laden with delicious similes: \\"I was as empty of life as a scarecrow's pockets.\\"<br /><br />Five stars for Chandler and this wonderful book.	2004-08-23
US	51083005	RCEIYIERY5NNH	0743227387	602712820	On Paradise Drive: How We Live Now (And Always Have) in the Future Tense	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Anecdotal, but very fun	David Brooks' Bobos in Paradise is a book I find myself frequently referencing and quoting. It captured perfectly modern blue state urban professionals in all their glory and banality. In On Paradise Drive, Brooks broadens his study sample and tries to look at America generally. The result is a less substantive book, but a very enjoyable one nonetheless.<br /><br />Brooks has a gift for keen observation. He begins by profiling different types of Americans. Unlike the deep and diverse profile of a \\"bobo\\" he developed in his last book, here he only gives us stereotypical sketches. Still, these are so keenly described that you can't help but see people you know fit the picture of the generic urban hipsters and ubermoms he paints. He certainly has my number.<br /><br />He also describes in uncanny detail the habitats of his American icons, from exurbs to suburbs to ethnic enclaves. His sociological conclusions are thinly sourced, but they read very true precisely because they are anecdotal and seem confirmed by one's own experience. But some of his sketches, such as the generally disinterested, but driven-by-the-system overachieving student, are patently unreal. They describe at best a small minority, and certainly no one I know. He also seems to gloss over huge, important swaths of Americans, namely hispanic immigrants and evangelical Christians.<br /><br />From his metaphorical drive across America, Brooks is able to produce optimistic vision of a nation that is ultimately very materialist and pseudo-spiritual, but is heroic and successful because it can't sit still; it is always grasping for an unreachable state of nirvana, and improving every field imaginable along the way. No matter who they are, or what obscure field they toil in, Brook's Americans are heros in their domains.<br /><br />Brooks' vision is certainly one of American exceptionalism, and this makes On Paradise Drive a very uplifting book. It is also short, very readable, and extremely witty. As long as you don't expect an academic work, you will enjoy this look at modern everyday America.long as you don't expect an academic work, you will enjoy this look at modern everyday America.	2004-08-17
US	51083005	RVF61EDXVQ2OL	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	205	214	N	N	Great storyteller, compelling subject, wonderful book	Although I don't know more than the average person about the Civil War, I've always had a sneaking suspicion that it is still with us somehow. Tony Horwitz's &quot;Confederates in the Attic&quot; confirmed that suspicion and in a most amusing, touching, and balanced way.<br />A War reenactor friend recommended I read the book. We were talking about the modern-day states rights concerns and he said that the debate had its origins at Fort Sumter. So, I picked up the book thinking it would simply be a survey of what I now know is called neo-Confederate thought. But I was more than a little bit thrilled to find that it was not just a sociological study, but also a travelogue-probably my favorite kind of book.<br />After returning to the States from an extended time abroad, Horwitz's childhood interest in the Civil War-and especially Rebels-was rekindled after a band of hardcore reenactors showed up in his yard on their way to a battlefield. Soon he began to tour the South visiting relevant War sites and interviewing the Confederate descendants that kept that cause's heritage alive. Horwitz's has an amazing gift for storytelling and it shines through in this book. He has an uncanny ability to come across mundanely interesting characters in his travels and to write their stories with an original verve.<br />The book is also balanced. Although he is a Yankee, Horwitz's affinity for the Rebels is evident. But he checks that affinity with a good dose of history and reality. He conveys the notion that the South's resentment  of the North is not wholly unjustified, but actually often well placed. At the same time, though, he illustrates the willful naivete that makes Gods of Confederate generals and that forgets the Old South's uglier sides. Horwitz manages to do all this while highlighting not just the tragic, but also the fun and curious stories of the Civil War and its remnants today.<br />Every American should strive to learn a bit more about the War, and this is a great place to start. It's a fun, touching read that demonstrates why that chapter in our history is still important-and indeed still with us-today.lace to start. It's a fun, touching read that demonstrates why that chapter in our history is still important-and indeed still with us-today.	2004-05-27
US	51083005	R2WH9OIWE42E9W	1594200068	745553598	Free Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Ten million reasons why copyright should be reformed	Lawrence Lessig's \\"Free Culture\\" is nothing short of brilliant. It outlines an incredibly important modern problem that is lost under the noise of more pressing concerns like the war in Iraq or corporate scandals. That problem is the loss of our culture at the hands of intellectual property law. And what that problem lacks in immediacy and prime-time-worthy sex appeal, it makes up in long-term consequences.<br />Lessig does a formidable job of making the issue come alive for both experts and laymen with his use of anecdotes that clearly illustrate how the ever-growing term and scope of copyright have stifled creativity and shrunken the portion of our culture in the public domain. He shows how the content industry is trying to redefine IP as the equivalent of tangible property, when it is not and has never been, and how that industry has manipulated Congress and the Courts to get closer to its goal.<br />If you followed the Eldred v. Ashcroft case (like I did; I was lucky to be at oral argument before the Supremes), you'll want to pick up this book for Lessig's inside account. Most of it is a mea culpa for not realizing that the Court didn't want a constitutional argument, but a consequentialist one. I'm not sure this would have made a difference. The Court's right, who, like Lessig, I thought would chime in for a strict reading of what is clear language of \\"limited times\\" in the Copyright Clause, must have had some special reason for turning their backs on their originalist rhetoric and I doubt that a political argument would have changed their minds. I still can't understand what that reason might be, and I refuse to believe it's just the dead hand of stare decisis that gave Scalia pause. Lessig is obviously very upset at that Justice; while he does mention having clerked for Judge Posner, Lessig doesn't mention in his bio (neither in the dust jacket nor the back pages of the book) that he clerked for Scalia in 1990-91.<br />One curious thing about the book is that throughout it Lessig implies that he is a leftist and that the ideas he is advocating are leftist. He patronizingly writes at a couple of points that he would be surprised if a person on the right had read that far. I think he is selling himself-and conservative readers-short. In fact, there is very little in the book incompatible with a conservative or libertarian free-market viewpoint. Private interests using the power of the state to distort the market and quash their competitors, and an originalist Jeffersonian interpretation of the Constitution as the response are very conservative themes indeed.<br />But it's not all agreement. I, like most free marketeers, will object to parts of Free Culture. Foremost among them are Lessig's concerns about media concentration. The fact is that there are more options today in television and radio than 20 years ago, and the the explosion of Internet sites and blogs, which Lessig spends most of the book lauding, belies the idea that news can be controlled. And it is interesting that Lessig seems to understand this. He says that he has seen concentration only as market efficiency in action, and that only recently has he 'begun to change his mind'. His skepticism is reflected in the fact that he only dedicated a small section (7 pages) to the issue. Another point of contention will be some of the solutions he proposes. While I applaud the idea of shorter terms that must be renewed with payment of a token fee, compulsory licensing and fees paid out by the government out of general revenues is beyond the pail. Won't such mechanisms be ripe for corporate manipulation as well?<br />Still, small quibbles aside, this book beautifully puts the IP issue in perspective. Everyone is touched by copyright whether they know it or not. This book shows us how the future of our culture is a dark one unless we change course soon.throughout it Lessig implies that he is a leftist and that the ideas he is advocating are leftist. He patronizingly writes at a couple of points that he would be surprised if a person on the right had read that far. I think he is selling himself-and conservative readers-short. In fact, there is very little in the book incompatible with a conservative or libertarian free-market viewpoint. Private interests using the power of the state to distort the market and quash their competitors, and an originalist Jeffersonian interpretation of the Constitution as the response are very conservative themes indeed.<br />But it's not all agreement. I, like most free marketeers, will object to parts of Free Culture. Foremost among them are Lessig's concerns about media concentration. The fact is that there are more options today in television and radio than 20 years ago, and the the explosion of Internet sites and blogs, which Lessig spends most of the book lauding, belies the idea that news can be controlled. And it is interesting that Lessig seems to understand this. He says that he has seen concentration only as market efficiency in action, and that only recently has he 'begun to change his mind'. His skepticism is reflected in the fact that he only dedicated a small section (7 pages) to the issue. Another point of contention will be some of the solutions he proposes. While I applaud the idea of shorter terms that must be renewed with payment of a token fee, compulsory licensing and fees paid out by the government out of general revenues is beyond the pail. Won't such mechanisms be ripe for corporate manipulation as well?<br />Still, small quibbles aside, this book beautifully puts the IP issue in perspective. Everyone is touched by copyright whether they know it or not. This book shows us how the future of our culture is a dark one unless we change course soon.	2004-05-17
US	51083005	RA781TZRWI3O0	0385015364	816806068	Orthodoxy (Image Classics)	Books	4	11	23	N	N	It won't convince nonbelievers	A Catholic friend recommended &quot;Orthodoxy&quot; by way of trying to justify faith. While it is a very elegant and wittily written book, I can't say it meets that mark.<br />&quot;Orthodoxy&quot; is the very personal account of G.K. Chesterton's journey to the Christian faith. But because it is so personal, it doesn't explain faith objectively, but rather only to Chesterton's satisfaction. And having reached the same conclusion as Chesterton, I'm sure it is also to the satisfaction of most believers.<br />It is a little frustrating to read the parts where he sets about destroying straw men, or when he proves a point by changing the argument into a semantic one. On the other hand it's a pleasure to see him pick on the likes of Nietzsche. The ultimate lesson that comes from the book, though, is the tautology that faith can't be proven, which is why many good, honest folks don't have any.<br />To Chesterton, life is more romantic and, indeed, livable if you accept that some things are beyond human understanding, that there is no sense in trying to explain them, and that they might as well be explained by magic. He believed that &quot;something that we have never in any full sense known, is not only better than ourselves, but even more natural to us than ourselves.&quot; This no doubt filled him with comfort because it would give rhyme and reason to lots of chaos in the world. But this attitude can also be interpreted as intellectual laziness, if not cowardice. It is much easier to believe, on faith, in &quot;fairy tales&quot; (as Chesterton proudly called them), than to accept the natural world, as inscrutable as it is, and seek valiantly to understand its mysteries before one's time is up.<br />So, while it is an enjoyable read, this book is likely doubly enjoyed by a believer who is looking for a reaffirmation of his faith. Non-believers will find it interesting, if undeservedly condescending.	2004-04-11
US	51083005	R2S58E3H5F1NFK	0345457714	203262778	Broken Angels (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	4	92	98	N	N	It's not Altered Carbon, but it's still fantastic	Last year I read Richard K. Morgan's first novel, Altered Carbon, and was blown away. Such smart, edge-of-your seat darkness is hard to come by. But it also meant that Morgan set a very high standard for himself in his debut.<br />Broken Angels is a wonderful book and I recommend it. It's a page-turner, but I have to say it isn't as hard-hitting as Altered Carbon. Still, to say that it is not as good would be unfair because the two books can't be compared. Where Morgan's antihero, Takeshi Kovacs, was ex-special-ops-turned-private-eye-by-circumstance in the first book, this time he returns to his military roots as a mercenary fighting a planetary rebellion. The mystery novel is a genre that lends itself to the twist and turns that makes Altered Carbon great. Morgan (perhaps smartly) avoids comparison by choosing a much more subdued wartime setting for this adventure.<br />One thing that remains constant is the darkness; you can't get more noir than this. While Morgan's consciousness-digitizing technology was cool and mind-bending in the first book, here it is dehumanizing and bleak. In one scene, Kovacs goes to a &quot;souls market&quot; where piles and piles of &quot;stacks&quot; (digitized personalities of real people) could be bought. Death is no longer the worst punishment possible; centuries of torture can be inflicted on your digital self. War and the attendant death have lost meaning. All this and the zero-sum power games played by governments, corporations, and guilds seem to contribute to Kovac's increasingly nihilist worldview.<br />Another difference that I wasn't so thrilled about is that while Kovacs was cast as a beat-down mercenary and half-hearted criminal just trying to &quot;get to the next screen&quot; in the first book, here he ultimately finds himself in the middle of one of the most important events in human history. I was expecting more of the anonymous and reluctant protagonist, so I guess I was a little thrown off.<br />Nevertheless, this is a fantastic book, and Richard K. Morgan is a great writer who I'm sure I'll pick up again. If you like Altered Carbon, you should definitely give this a shot. And is you haven't read Altered Carbon, what are you waiting for?a fantastic book, and Richard K. Morgan is a great writer who I'm sure I'll pick up again. If you like Altered Carbon, you should definitely give this a shot. And is you haven't read Altered Carbon, what are you waiting for?	2004-03-29
US	51083005	R1BNPWHGO4HR4V	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bryson could make anything funny	I love Bill Bryson. I've read almost all his books, and each time I finish another one, I get a little sad thinking there are now fewer left for me to get to. He is that good.<br />&quot;Neither Here Nor There&quot; is classic Bryson. This guy could write about paint drying and still make the funniest, smartest observations ever. Although all the giddy excitement of traveling to new places shines through in this memoir, most of the time Bryson talks about his experiences on trains, railway stations, police stations, waiting rooms, or hotel rooms by himself. Here is were his true talent shines through and he illuminates the absolutely wacky in the mundane.<br />I could have done without some of the misguided political commentaries he let slip in this book, but it is still a wonderful treat to see Europe through this mild-mannered madman's eyes. If you really want to laugh and laugh, go pick up this book--and all his other ones, too!	2004-03-20
US	51083005	R2OSHTHR03RKW4	0684843374	512456507	The Tempting of America	Books	5	47	55	N	N	Everyone in law school should read this book before con law	How I wish I had read this book before I took con law. Not only would it have been good preparation, but it would also have given me the ammunition to argue positions that I felt where intuitively correct. Even at my school, the Constitution is presented to students loaded with assumptions the framers never had in mind. And although I think that, given the political reality of the world, our professors would be doing us a disservice if they didn't present it so, it is still hard to reconcile the discrepancies that surface while staying within the parameters of modern constitutional thought. Robert Bork masterfully and eloquently blows away all the false assumptions and everything begins to make sense.<br />This book is truly a classic of American legal thought. It is the best argument for an original intent understanding of the Constitution that I have ever read. Bork also illustrates the politicization of our law in vivid detail by recounting his nomination for a seat on the Supreme Court and his defeat in the Senate. Still, though I understand the the slippery slope concomitant with looking beyond the four corners of the Constitution, Bork couldn't convince me that the Ninth Amendment is superfluous.<br />Everyone in law school should read this; especially before taking con law. You'll thank me for the tip!	2004-03-20
US	51083005	R2ZNHRZ13M6QL2	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Great, but not his best	I love Robert A. Heinlein's quriky brand of libertarian sci-fi, and I enjoyed this book. However, it didn't compare to some of his other work like &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress,&quot; a real sci-fi classic. This book is more psychedelic and postmodern. It centers around a conservative protestant minister who's life is turned upside down when, after walking through fire while on vacation, he find himself in another world that is just slightly different than his own. Every time he gets a little used to it, the world changes again and he has to start from scratch. The religious irreverence and social commentary that ensue are fun, but after the fifth world or so I was getting a little bored, and wishing the inevitable would just happen already. Still, a good read, and I would recommend it, just not as an introduction to Heinlein.	2004-03-20
US	51083005	R1DV2AWD7XKSNW	156663489X	761320371	Are Cops Racist?	Books	1	45	79	N	N	Wanted to like it, but was very dissapointed	I was looking forward to reading this book. Heather Mac Donald's writing came highly recommended from a friend, and I'm sympathetic to her argument in this book. But sadly, I was very disappointed.<br />First, it should be noted that this isn't a book per se; it is a compilation of several articles she wrote for &quot;City Journal&quot;. As such, it doesn't flow like a book, but more like a somewhat-related series of news and editorial clippings. Second, she is guilty of so much oversimplification that it smacks of intellectual laziness.<br />I knew something was amiss when I read in the first page of the introduction, &quot;For the past decade, the press has been on a crusade to portray cops as brutal and racist....&quot; Where to begin? &quot;The press&quot;? That's a pretty big group, of which allegedly she is a member herself. &quot;Crusade&quot;? Does she mean organized? And why &quot;for the past decade&quot;? Could it be because that's the decade that Bill Clinton was in office?<br />Mac Donald's book is full of anecdotal evidence and questionable leaps of logic that aren't satisfying. It's a real shame because she is doing a disservice to an argument that is probably right. But after seeing it so poorly defended, even I began to have doubts. She also doesn't help build confidence in her evidence or intellectual integrity by continuing the ad hominems such as &quot;anti-police agitators and their journalist acolytes&quot; throughout the book.<br />Mac Donald makes some good points and presents some interesting evidence, but unfortunately it is clouded by a lack of detachment and professionalism that would help make her argument more convincing, especially if she meant to preach to more than the choir. Real conservatives are some of the few people left with any good ideas, but sadly this is the kind of book the like of Al Franken will point out as conservative hysterics.	2004-03-20
US	51083005	R2EE4YFUQUV7TD	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	4	66	75	N	N	The grand jury would indict...	If you're looking for the case against Mother Teresa, this is not it. Christopher Hitchens's purpose was narrower, and intelligently so. The Missionary Position is only an indictment of Mother Teresa.<br />But don't let that &quot;only&quot; fool you. What Hitchens does superbly here is wonder, quite persuasively, &quot;Why hasn't anyone ever questioned this woman?&quot; He alleges sufficient particularized facts to create a reasonable doubt about the means and ends of someone whose saintliness has always been taken for granted. Hithchens's charges are compelling enough to make you conclude discovery and a wider investigation are necessary, but he never carries out a full-on prosecution.<br />Besides consorting with unsavory characters (and taking their money), Mother Teresa's greatest trespass, according to Hitchens, was accepting the mantle of compassionate caretaker of the poor, while harboring a philosophy that celebrates suffering and does little for the poor but let them wretch, surreptitiously convert them, and let them die so that they might go to heaven. Meanwhile, her well-to-do patrons in the developed world sleep well at night after having written her a check, knowing that they have done good. Her unbending opposition to any contraception also doesn't win her any points in Hitchens's scorecard, but what does he expect from a Catholic nun?<br />If you believe in God, you might take offense to how easily and unapologetically Hitchens dismisses any notions of a creator or afterlife or other mysticisms. But if this is the case, I don't think this book was written for you; I think he wrote this book assuming (at the very least) an informed secularism on the part of the reader. As always, Hitchens proves to be a good and interesting writer, and I recommend this book.	2003-12-12
US	51083005	RZREOX73S2SVD	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best fiction I've read all year	Wow. Richard K. Morgan's \\"Altered Carbon\\" is probably the best fiction book I've read all year. It is incredibly imaginative, grittily gripping, solid and seamless. Morgan's prose is on par with that of any modern \\"literary\\" author and will satisfy serious readers.<br />The book is cyberpunk, and so includes familiar existential mind-benders and a post-nation-state setting. But this is just the necessary backdrop, and not the focus of the book. Instead, the story is an Agatha Christie whodunit except with excellent character development.<br />I loved this book because it is an intelligent page-turning thriller. But I also loved the clever devices Morgan employs. For example, the protagonist (his digitized mind) is broadcast to Earth and sleeved in the body of someone else who's mind is in prison. And although we never meet the person who's body the protagonist is wearing, he becomes a central character. It also raises great questions about how closely linked our physical beings are to who we really are. In another part of the book someone makes a copy of his digitized mind and so is able to have a conversation with himself. What would you ask yourself? Is it yourself?<br />And if this doesn't convince you, the book is also packed with plenty of drugs, explosions, fights, [.....] and pimps, and surprisingly well-written erotic moments. Treat yourself to this noir sci-fi mystery; you won't regret it.	2003-11-30
US	51083005	RVKQXOQY95VUD	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	1	70	123	N	N	Not funny, not compelling, not anything	Dave Eggers begins chapter six of &quot;A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius&quot; by asking about MTV's &quot;The Real World&quot;, &quot;Is it interesting because it's so bad, because the stars of it are so profoundly uninteresting? Or is it because we recognize so much that is maddeningly familiar?&quot; The same questions could be asked about his insipid book.<br />The abundant critical acclaim heaped on this book persuaded me to pick it up, but I was left disappointed and wondering if the critics read the same thing as me. This book is the personal memoir of an intelligent guy my age dealing with all the same angsty, existential tribulations we all do. Perhaps this is interesting to other people, but I'd sooner just live my life.<br />The one twist that arguably makes Eggers's life compelling is the fact that he lost both parents within months of each other and assumed custody of his ten-year-old brother. But Eggers squanders the opportunity to tell an interesting and truly heartbreaking story. He probably simply and honestly didn't live such a story. The book opens with his mother's last days, and this part is moving--especially for all of us who have been touched by a loved one's cancer. But then the fact that he becomes responsible for a kid comes across as just one of those things that happens to people. There are plenty of twenty-something single moms out there who don't feel compelled to write books about the minutiae of their lives.<br />One gets the impression that Eggers thinks we'll find this stuff interesting because it's happening to him, Eggers. I understand that this is supposed to be a cathartic exposition, but it could at least have been engaging for my benefit. After all, he didn't just put it in a drawer when he finished it; he published it.<br />And Eggers recognizes how boring his book is. The book is prefaced with &quot;Rules and Suggestions for Enjoyment of This Book&quot; in which he recommends that one skip two-thirds of the book because, among other things, &quot;it concerns the lives of people in their early twenties, and those lives are very difficult to make interesting, even when they seemed interesting to those living them at the time.&quot; Fine, I say, but can I have two-thirds of my purchase price back (not to mention my time)?because, among other things, &quot;it concerns the lives of people in their early twenties, and those lives are very difficult to make interesting, even when they seemed interesting to those living them at the time.&quot; Fine, I say, but can I have two-thirds of my purchase price back (not to mention my time)?	2003-11-12
US	51083005	R2YGCQ33N0P791	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	23	31	N	N	A non-liberal recommends this book to other non-liberals	Al Franken is a funny, snarky guy and his &quot;Lies (And the Lying Liars Who Tell Them)&quot; is a great book. While it is perhaps a little uneven in its hilarity, the funny parts are very funny and he is consistently merciless in his flogging of &quot;Right-wing&quot; liars. (He uses the term &quot;Left-wing&quot; maybe once and instead prefers &quot;liberal&quot;. I'm just trying to be fair and balanced.)<br />Kudos to Franken for catching people like Bill O'Reilly and Anne Coulter in deceitful lies. I'm talking big, huge whoppers meant to mislead. And it's hilarious when he does. These people are shameless liars and its fun to laugh at them. My one critique is that he goes after easy targets like O'Reilly, Coulter, Sean Hannity and George W. Bush who are all intellectually bankrupt miscreants. I don't blame Franken for doing so, that's where the big laughs (and the big lies) are. But the implication is that all conservatives are all like them--stupid, evil, and deceitful--and that's not fair.<br />Like in his other book, &quot;Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations&quot;, Franken complains about ad hominem attacks from the Right. Here he also points out how hypocritical Bush's pledge to &quot;change the tone in Washington&quot; was. But Franken proceeds to paint all conservatives and Republicans with the same broad brush, often acerbically.<br />I know. It's satire. I get it and it's funny, but I'm just pointing out what his target &quot;Left-wing&quot; audience will probably take for granted. He also does things like infiltrate Bob Jones University, or confront Barbara Bush, that could fairly be characterized as mean-spirited. But of course in this context he can say to anyone who grumbles, &quot;Oh lighten up! Don't you have a sense of humor?&quot;<br />And the thing is I do. If you know me, you know I'm no liberal. But neither am I a conservative. So, to my conservative and libertarian friends (and if they're my friends, they are critical thinkers who don't read books &quot;by&quot; Anne Coulter) I say, read this book. Take the chapters where Franken goes on about economic policy with a grain of salt, but relish the bulk of the book where he tears apart the administration, the talking heads, and rags like The Washington Times.<br />Oh, and also enjoy the excerpts from Bill O'Reilly's filthy crime novel, &quot;Those Who Trespass&quot;.nkers who don't read books &quot;by&quot; Anne Coulter) I say, read this book. Take the chapters where Franken goes on about economic policy with a grain of salt, but relish the bulk of the book where he tears apart the administration, the talking heads, and rags like The Washington Times.<br />Oh, and also enjoy the excerpts from Bill O'Reilly's filthy crime novel, &quot;Those Who Trespass&quot;.	2003-11-10
US	51083005	RBBJYCTNR9CZU	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A tasty and funny world jaunt	Anthony Bourdain's writing is steeped with the street-smart coolness that can only come from a lifetime New Yorker. In A Cook's Tour he manages to combine the travelogue with food writing without it being completely fruity.<br />Bourdain travels around the world sampling local cuisine and meeting interesting characters. You can tell how passionate he is about food and life and it's wonderful to read an author who really loves his subject. He's also side-splittingly sardonic about the different situations he finds himself in.<br />This book is also much more personal than I expected. His manic-depression shines through: one moment is a blissful celebration of life and the next is full of self-loathing. A trip to his boyhood haunts in France and a scary side trip to Cambodia are especially poignant. Bourdain gets four stars in my Michelin Guide.	2003-11-02
US	51083005	R2P6SGGZ4QRBQ9	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Democracy ain't the same as liberty	For years I've complained about how democracy is so often confused with liberty. People seem to use the terms interchangeably, but they are very different. Liberty is the greatest state of social ordering, while democracy is just a way of picking government administrators. Finally, someone wrote a book clarifying the distinction.<br />In The Future of Freedom, Fareed Zakaria also goes a step further. He makes the case that you can't have a successful democracy without a liberal order first. In fact, democracy with no liberal basis is a recipe for disaster. What's more, unbounded democracy can kill a liberal order. Zakaria expounds his thesis very well and in wonderful prose, but I have two critiques.<br />First is that after showing beyond a doubt how countries with no liberal history and natural resources that can prop up governments without the need for taxation (and thus popular assent), Zakaria proceeds to make the case that with a couple of years of \\"nation building\\" Iraq should be ready for democracy. It's as if he didn't read his own book. Second is that Zakaria conflates his legitimate, well-reasoned warning against unchecked democracy with an argument against free-wheeling capitalism and consumerism. The distinction he misses is that decisions made at the ballot box affect a whole society, while decisions made at the cash register affect only the individual.<br />But still this book is a great, engaging read. Democracy is a wonderful system, but as Zakaria clearly shows, unfettered it is a threat \\"at home and abroad\\".	2003-11-02
US	51083005	R1C1IXBTHZF4BW	0060186321	616906424	The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture, and Consciousness	Books	4	76	81	N	N	Simple points made well	Never before have humans mastered production and distribution so well that function and value become givens, making aesthetics the ground of marginal competition. Design, therefore, has real and substantive, if hard to measure, economic value. These are the two points that Virginia Postrel makes in The Substance of Style. It takes her 191 pages to do so, however, and this distresses some who feel that these obvious points could have been made in two sentences.<br />I came to this book with the same trepidation because I didn't particularly care for Postrel's last book, The Future and its Enemies. But, I ended up a convert. Sure, Postrel's thesis here is a simple one, but this only underscores its elegance. That we all demand ambiance with our coffee and a flourish with our door knobs is something many folks take for granted. But the thing is, it's an unprecedented change in the history of human consumption and I don't know of anyone who has catalogued it like Postrel has. That profitability and business survival increasingly depend on the intangible &quot;feel&quot; of a product or service--and not on its traditional utility--will still come as a surprise to many old-school thinkers.<br />What Postrel does in this book is engagingly prove her two points beyond a doubt. Sure, they're simple points, but the book is short and packed with interesting anecdotes. I recommend this book to anyone interested in design, but especially to folks who think there's no value in looks or those who might be tempted to fault our modern &quot;consumerist&quot; culture as wasteful.	2003-09-30
US	51083005	R333S2N4FV20J2	0679751831	52561466	Salvador	Books	4	9	15	N	N	A still life of death	Joan Didion went to El Salvador for a couple of weeks in 1982 and wrote this great short book about her experience. Her tale is not about the details of the civil war or the politics involved, but just the mood of the country during that slice of time. Senseless and violent murder pervaded, and she captured it vividly and brilliantly.<br />Being in El Salvador must have felt like never knowing that at any moment someone could step up from behind you and fire a bullet into your head. Could one ever get used to that? Used to bodies left every day on the side of the road? Used to them laying unclaimed because, if they were claimed, that person would be next? It really made me realize how much I take for granted living under the rule of law. Human life seems to be of such little value almost everywhere else.<br />The other thing Didion made me realize was that there was hope for my writing. She writes in huge, long, never-ending run-on sentences with scads of parantheticals and comma-separated interludes and explanations, as well as semicolon appendages (many whole paragraphs are only one sentence long), yet she gets away with it; there's hope for me.	2003-08-31
US	51083005	R67K39U5KQ1BC	0738206083	206661709	Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution	Books	3	41	49	N	N	Very cool technology, very uninspired prose	In Smart Mobs, Howard Rheingold catalogues the technologies that are converging to change the way we live: mobile communications, social networks, distributed processing and pervasive computing. He does a good job of identifying and explaining these and predicting what it will mean when they get together. This makes for an interesting read, but I'm afraid I still found the book maddening.<br />The worst thing is that a whole half the book is in quotes (or worse, block quotes) from other people and their dissertations or promotional materials. This makes the book lack a singular voice and is very disconcerting. Rheingold not only attributes everything to a fault, he also has the bad habit of explaining where he interviewed each person, what they ate, what funny thing the interviewee had in their office. This makes for ponderous, stalling prose that is painful to read.<br />He also makes the Lessig-inspired mistake of dividing the world into two camps: the government and big media are lumped on one side, and heroic no-property anarchists are placed in the other. He's right to point out that big media's vested interests are a creature of government, but he doesn't get that that really isn't capitalism. A true market is the ultimate form of the mediated cooperation he pines for.<br />If you are a techno-cultural geek, you have to read this book.  But take it with a grain of salt, and brace yourself for plenty of minutiae.	2003-08-31
US	51083005	R382JFOLTEVMDI	0393057755	361013472	Terror and Liberalism	Books	4	29	40	N	N	Very edifying and thought provoking, but not convincing	Paul Berman's Terror and Liberalism is a wonderfully written little tome. The prose is poetic and emotive and makes for an engrossing read.<br />Berman's thesis is that contrary to what Fukuyama has said, the Twentieth Century is decidedly not over. The Western totalitarian regimes that took root after World War I in Europe may all have been vanquished, but their Eastern counterparts-namely radical Islamism and Baathi pan-Arabism-are still around and becoming more dangerous. He draws striking parallels between the different ideologies and finds that their main intersection is a rejection of liberal thought and society.<br />Apart from this interesting idea, the great value of this book is its brilliant explanation of radical Islamist philosophy and its origins. Less inspiring is one of Berman's key premises: that all totalitarian systems-including Islamism-incorporate a cult-like mass death wish. Although this behavior might be self-evident from history, he doesn't seek to explain it. He merely chalks it up to human irrationality and proclaims that liberalism's failure is not accepting that masses can act outside of reason.<br />Perhaps I'm just too liberal, but he didn't convince me. I also find it ironic that after criticizing liberals for desiring neat, little explanations for everything, it is in fact such a tight package that he presents in this book. But Berman must be given credit for being an honest (and consistent) leftist. Unlike his pacifist brethren, once he spies an illiberal, nihilistic, totalitarian menace half-way around the world, he wants to destroy it with government's might.<br />Berman applauds the invasion of Iraq, but not its justification. He prefers preemptive war in the name of Wilsonian internationalism over a realist response to an actual threat. To me this seems like pax Americana under another name. We can invade and impose our values abroad, Berman seems to say, as long as we impose the \\"right\\" values.	2003-07-28
US	51083005	R3PXGEC79TWZEF	0130649074	401808319	Essential Guide to Telecommunications, The (3rd Edition) (Essential Guides (Prentice Hall))	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A good basic introduction to telecom tech	I read this book while I was a legal intern at the FCC to try to learn the tech side of the telecom world. I knew policy, but I had no idea how the telephone network actually worked. This book gives a great basic grounding in the technology of telecommunications-switches, routers, time division multiplexing, and everything else.<br /><br />Luckily, basic is exactly what I needed. The &quot;tell it to me like I'm a two-year-old&quot; approach might be frustrating for some advanced readers. I found myself skipping some of the sections on the Internet because it was too elementary for me.<br /><br />Also, if you're going to read it, make sure you get the latest edition of this book. Technologies change fast, and some of the sections are bound to become out-of-date very quickly.<br /><br />Once you have the tech side down, you can pick up the regulatory policy side by reading The Telecommunications Regulation Handbook available for free from the World Bank. It's just as basic as Dodd's book, but is better read if you know how the technology works. Get these two under your belt, and you'll be ready to work at your local friendly telecom regulatory agency.	2003-07-21
US	51083005	R3V0NXZOAXQ2MT	0967756839	582605017	Judge Dave and the Rainbow People	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Tolerance, peace, and wit	It's not every day that you read a book containing the full text of a consent agreement between parties to a health statute dispute and still find it very enjoyable. It's just as uncommon for a federal appeals court judge to write a book about the time he oversaw the peaceful assembly of thousands of middle-aged hippies in the woods of North Carolina. But that's what Judge Dave and the Rainbow People is about.<br />The Rainbow People are not an organization as such. They're just whoever shows up around Independence Day each year at a place on federal land decided the year before. The people who show up are mostly baby boomer ex-hippies trying to relive the Summer of Love. They come by the thousands, get naked, and live in the woods for weeks. Invariably, the Forrest Service comes after them.<br />In 1987 the Rainbow People converged on Nantahala Forrest in Western North Carolina. It wasn't long before the State tried to evict them under a sanitation law that was arguably unconstitutional. The case ended up before Judge Dave, who was a circuit court judge at the time.<br />The result is an endearing account of how a conservative judge faced 15,000 decadent hippies (and at least one elephant), the ACLU, snarky law clerks, a ticking clock, and his own Senate confirmation to the D.C. Circuit in the background, and still managed to avoid catastrophe by avoiding a ruling on the law. Judge Dave is sincere and admits up front that this was one case where the results, and not the letter of the law, drove his decision. The alternative was a possible showdown between thousands of until-then peaceful gatherers and state troopers. I guess he made use of judicial discretion.<br />Judge Dave got to visit the Rainbow camp a couple of times while he assessed the problem and later monitored the implementation of the agreement he brokered between the two sides. These visits account for much of the book and Judge Dave recounts them with a wonderful understated dry wit. &quot;That weekend, July 4th occurred on Saturday as scheduled,&quot; he recalls in one part.<br />You learn how tolerant Judge Dave is. Not in the modern meaning of the word, which holds that everyone's wonderful, but as originally defined: &quot;to allow without prohibiting&quot; even if one strongly disagrees. You also learn how truly peaceful the Rainbow People are and how this allowed tolerance to work. Finally, you learn that Judge Dave found himself staring at the naked ladies quite a bit!<br />I would recommend this book, especially to lawyers, law students, and hippies (quite the niche). The only real critique I have is that at the end of the book, one of the Rainbow leaders shares his memories in 20 pages. I bet this was done to provide some sort of &quot;equal time&quot;, but it doesn't add much and is actually a bit distracting. After finishing Judge Dave's hilarious and fair account of the gathering it's odd to go through a flat mini-review of what you just read. But hey, judge for yourself. Happy trails!nd, July 4th occurred on Saturday as scheduled,&quot; he recalls in one part.<br />You learn how tolerant Judge Dave is. Not in the modern meaning of the word, which holds that everyone's wonderful, but as originally defined: &quot;to allow without prohibiting&quot; even if one strongly disagrees. You also learn how truly peaceful the Rainbow People are and how this allowed tolerance to work. Finally, you learn that Judge Dave found himself staring at the naked ladies quite a bit!<br />I would recommend this book, especially to lawyers, law students, and hippies (quite the niche). The only real critique I have is that at the end of the book, one of the Rainbow leaders shares his memories in 20 pages. I bet this was done to provide some sort of &quot;equal time&quot;, but it doesn't add much and is actually a bit distracting. After finishing Judge Dave's hilarious and fair account of the gathering it's odd to go through a flat mini-review of what you just read. But hey, judge for yourself. Happy trails!	2003-06-19
US	51083005	R1M53C2LVHKNDI	0195116143	914373955	Law and Disorder in Cyberspace: Abolish the FCC and Let Common Law Rule the Telecosm	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Abolish the FCC?	On the recommendation of a good friend, I read this book to bone up for my internship at the FCC. Peter Huber presents a good history of the FCC, and why it never should have existed. His thesis is simple and compelling: of all things, communications technology doesn't need top-down regulation, but rather the evolutionary flexibility of the common law.<br />He has a point. Look at the success of an open standard like Wi-Fi. Allow that slice of the spectrum to be free and the free-market will add value to it. But hey, the FCC ain't going nowhere any time soon. The best we can hope for is as much un- and deregulation as possible.<br />I recommend this very well researched and passionately written book!	2003-06-19
US	51083005	RBDQHP1YZ1XQ1	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Well researched, good tale, poorly written	Mark Bowden's \\"Killing Pablo\\" is a very well researched law enforcement tale that makes for an enjoyable read. I use the term \\"law enforcement\\" loosely because Bowden's main thesis seems to be that the killing of Pablo Escobar was successful only because of the efforts of extralegal vigilante groups that terrorized Escobar's associates and who were helped--at least indirectly--by the U.S. military, DEA, and CIA. Also, capturing the fugitive Escobar was never an option, the understanding was that he would be killed when he was found.<br />Bowden does a great job of outlining how deep U.S. involvement was in this affair. An incredible amount of money was spent by the U.S. on killing Escobar despite the fact they knew it wouldn't have any appreciable effect on the cocaine supply available to the States. The other subtext of the book is how corrupt and violent Colombia was, and likely still is. If you ever have a chance to interact with Colombians, you will no doubt find them to be the most cultured and worldly Latin Americans there are; it's sad that just below the surface their country is so lawless.<br />Overall I would recommend the book. I would warn, however, that it is poorly written and certainly poorly edited. There are run-on sentences and many subject confusions that make you have to stop and re-read a paragraph to figure out who Bowden is talking about. If you're a stickler for good prose, it may drive you nuts.	2003-05-17
US	51083005	R246RK3W0JB153	189362613X	892556686	101 Things to Do 'Til the Revolution: Ideas and Resources for Self-Liberation, Monkey Wrenching and Preparedness	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Motivation and inspirtation for that "akward stage"	In her famous opening line to this book, Claire Wolfe says that \\"America is at that awkward stage. It's too late to work within the system, but too early to shoot the bastards.\\" And by the bastards she mostly means the federal government.<br />She then proceeds to list 101 things to do until the inevitable time comes to shoot the bastards. If I actually followed her advice, I probably wouldn't be writing this--certainly not under my name. But like Wolfe notes about a certain kind of libertarian, I'm probably more of a thinker and less of a doer. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book. Above all, I think hers is a motivational book to get us through the awkward stage.<br />Besides inspiration, this book also serves as a reference with lots of good book and periodical recommendations where you can better immerse yourself on the topics. Much of the advice is on survival, so if you're looking for a simple primer, this might help. One criticism is that although Wolfe says it's too late to work within the system, she encourages readers to join gun rights and privacy groups that, it seems to me, are trying to change the system.<br />But in the end, Wolfe walks her talk and I respect her for that. Her passion about liberty comes through and it is very heartening. If you like this book, she also keeps a great blog.	2003-05-12
US	51083005	R3UIZNS0G6OZOR	0813530962	329845592	Darwinian Politics: The Evolutionary Origin of Freedom	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Political behavior thru the lens of evolutionary psychology	In good evolutionary psychologist form, Paul Rubin tries to explain our existing political behaviors by looking at the Era of Evolutionary Adaptedness (EEA). The EEA is the time during the Pleistocene when humans became humans and our ancestors' innate tendencies were etched into our genes. This analysis benefits from the fact that Rubin is an economist and understands how incentives matter in human behavior. Many other writers lack this insight; most notably the great Richard Dawkins who, after articulating selfish gene theory, tries to wish away his conclusions.<br />It is interesting that Rubin, a professor of law and economics at Emory, was a libertarian when he began to write this book but ended up questioning the rigidity of that ideology. You can see this come through when he begins the book by dispelling myths on both sides of the traditional political spectrum. He explains that the state of nature is a useless metaphor because humans never existed in such an anarchic state, and also that humans are not malleable, but instead have a certain human nature.<br />Our species' patrilocality is an important theme that runs throughout the book. Male dominance and the ease with which males could form political alliances in the EEA is key, according to Rubin. But while that ease made some males dominant, it also helped those left out to join together to make sure they weren't too dominant. Rubin also distinguishes between male and female evolved risk preferences and how this affects political behavior today.<br />Economists assume rationality in their models, but empirical studies would suggest that people don't behave so sensibly. Rubin takes a stab at reconciling this bogeyman of economics by positing that behavior that seems unreasonable today may have been reasonable in the EEA. For example, evolving in a zero-sum world leads to a mistrust of capitalism in today's nonzero world. Also other arguably irrational behavior, like religious conviction, may still be useful to genes today.<br />In sum, the book is a good survey of the evolutionary psychology literature with Rubin's insights about what it means for political behavior. This is decidedly an academic text, but a good one and ou shouldn't be put off by this because it's very readable--especially if you understand the language of evolution and economics. I would certainly recommend it.ul to genes today.<br />In sum, the book is a good survey of the evolutionary psychology literature with Rubin's insights about what it means for political behavior. This is decidedly an academic text, but a good one and ou shouldn't be put off by this because it's very readable--especially if you understand the language of evolution and economics. I would certainly recommend it.	2003-05-12
US	51083005	R75DY2P3QGOWT	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A masterful command of the language	Although he practically invented the genre, the story is typical cyberpunk: computer cowboy in a post-nation-state corporate-controlled world is forced to complete a suspenseful mission--in this case freeing an AI.<br />But like I said about Pattern Recognition, Gibson's gift is not so much in story-making (although the story here is still great), but in his command of the language. A very apt description of his prose in this book is \\"mindbending.\\" His descriptions are psychadelic and surreal and unexpected. And his techno-culturally sensitive and clever inventions like the \\"Turing Police\\" are delicious.<br />It is amazing Gibson wrote this book over 20 years ago; it seems so ahead of its time. For one thing, he coined the term \\"cyberspace\\" in this book. It is also amazing how much of The Matrix is copied from its pages. And not just subtle concepts, but names like \\"The Matrix\\" and \\"Zion\\" and whatnot. I hope he's getting some royalties. I wonder if Gibson ever read Nozick and his experience machine?	2003-05-12
US	51083005	R1NNOOQWHNQJVA	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	4	6	7	N	N	It's how it feels...	This is the first book I have read by the legendary William Gibson, and I must say I'm quite taken. It's not the story so much as the way he tells it. He is very culturally--techno-culturally--sensitive, and he sure knows how to craft a sentence.<br />For one thing, he seems to have mastered the usually irritating practice of verbing nouns. From the common &quot;to Google,&quot; to the Tokyo urban scene that looks like it's been &quot;Blade Runnered.&quot; I'm ashamed to admit I ended up with a list of almost 30 words I didn't know (and mind you, I play a mean game of Scrabble), yet his is a very subtle command of the language.<br />From what I've heard, this book is a departure for Gibson, whose novels normally take place in the not-too-distant future. This one takes place in the present, but a very tech-savvy present. The events of September 11 figure largely in the book, but in more of a supporting role--just like they've figured in most of our lives. The story really has a feel of happening right now. Gibson seems to want to keep this book current for a while: he describes someone as looking like &quot;a prop from one sequel or another of The Matrix.&quot; But of course, even the first sequel won't be out until later this year.<br />The story is about Cayce Pollard, a psychologically complicated marketing consultant who has an allergy to brands and corporate logos-- literally. But this is just subtext. An ad firm magnate hires her to find the maker of anonymous film segments that have been popping up on the Web and which have drawn a big cult following. He ambiguously wants to commoditize it. She partners up with all sorts of nonchalantly bleeding-edge technophiles and hunts down the secret. But like I said, it's not so much about the story--although it has good, but typical, thriller twists and surprises--this book is about how the story is told.<br />Lot's of the action takes place over e-mail or on a message board. Digital watermarking, rendering, viral marketing, Japanese fashion, and iBooks connected to cell phones, and, of course, the characters empowered by these technologies are what make this book. I can imagine how it might be horribly annoying to others, but I loved that the main character was constantly exhausted. This was owed in large part to her traveling between London, Tokyo, and Moscow in a very short period (humans aren't made for such a small world), but it seems like she would have been tired regardless. I relate to that.<br />In the EEA we worked for a small fraction of the day, and spent the rest of our time relaxing--a lot like chimps. Today we--or at least I am--are plugged into the network almost 24 hours a day. My brain doesn't get a moment's rest. But don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining.<br />And wasn't this supposed to be a review of Pattern Recognition? Well, it's fun. Go read it. Myself, I'm going to get me a copy of Neuromancer.ting, Japanese fashion, and iBooks connected to cell phones, and, of course, the characters empowered by these technologies are what make this book. I can imagine how it might be horribly annoying to others, but I loved that the main character was constantly exhausted. This was owed in large part to her traveling between London, Tokyo, and Moscow in a very short period (humans aren't made for such a small world), but it seems like she would have been tired regardless. I relate to that.<br />In the EEA we worked for a small fraction of the day, and spent the rest of our time relaxing--a lot like chimps. Today we--or at least I am--are plugged into the network almost 24 hours a day. My brain doesn't get a moment's rest. But don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining.<br />And wasn't this supposed to be a review of Pattern Recognition? Well, it's fun. Go read it. Myself, I'm going to get me a copy of Neuromancer.	2003-04-20
