US	51097716	RL7GGVZBU7264	1931081697	380904122	First Meetings: Three Stories from the Enderverse	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice addition to the Ender novels in your bookcase	The chief attraction of this collection is that you can finally have ALL of the Ender stories in hardcover on your bookshelf. That and the enjoyable stories.<br />&quot;Ender's Game&quot; is the Hugo-nominated novelette that served as the basis for Card' sprawling Ender series.  The short story begins when Ender is in Battle School, whereas the novel begins much earlier.  Both stories tell the same tale, but the short contained herein is a superb short story.  <br />&quot;Investment Counselor&quot; was previously published in Robert Silverberg's 'Far Horizons' anthology.  This story relates how Ender first met Jane, the artificial intelligence that is his constant companion in several books of the series.  This is an enjoyable story that was unjustly criticized by several reviewers in its initial publication.<br />&quot;The Polish Boy&quot; is original to this collection.  It's the interesting story of Ender's father's childhood.  It tells an entertaining story, but I'm not sure exactly what Card is trying to do here.  Why did this story need to be told?  It doesn't seem to fit into the Ender stories.  We learn that Ender's father was a precocious child from a large family.  We see a bit of the history behind the Hegemony, the worldwide government that has fallen into disarray by the time &quot;Ender's Game&quot; occurs.  We learn how Ender's family arrived in the United States.  The story of a precocious young child has been told better by Card in &quot;Ender's Game&quot; and &quot;Mikal's Songbird&quot;.  I can only assume that the story was written to fill-in the Ender univese for devotees of the series.  As such, it's an enjoyable piece of work.<br />As a whole, this is a nice collection.  The stories range from excellent to enjoyable, a spectrum that many authors would love to have!  Outside of my reservations regarding &quot;The Polish Boy&quot;, this is a very entertaining collection.	2002-12-04
US	51097716	R3E22MG2NNMMIV	0385503008	850698966	Stay (Vintage Crime/Black Lizaed)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A standout novel	Nicola Griffith's _Stay_ is a standout novel of intrigue and suspense.  I will forgo plot summary here as it is available elsewhere on this page.<br />Griffith writes a mesmerizing book that is hard to put down. I read the entire thing in one day.  After I began reading, I had to find out how it ended.  <br />Griffith plays a nasty trick on the reader.  The characters appear to be distinctly one-sided.  The 'evil characters' that are harboring a young Mexican girl to be a wealthy New Yorker's child-bride are revealed to be fundamentalist Christians.  When the protagonist visits their church, she hears the preacher trying hard to 'convince himself' of his sermon.  The young Mexican girl is unnaturally intelligent for her age.  The fundamentalists have a 'sinister' wall decoration.  But then Griffith reveals that all is not as it appears.  The fundamentalists appear to have genuine love for the girl.  The priest is trying to protect his flock from the ravages of the world.  The wall decoration is fully explained, and the young girl, though still precocious, is not the preternatural genius we originally thought she was.<br />It shouldn't be surprising that Griffith managed to extricate herself from the type of characterizations normally found in shoddy bestsellers.  After all, she's a multiple award winner who is routinely praised as one of the best contemporary novelists.  _Stay_ is an engaging novel, and though it's not likely to win a Pulitzer, it's definitely worth a few hours of your life.	2002-12-04
US	51097716	R1P09VCRYGGSLN	193084610X	175323765	The Fantasy Writer's Assistant and Other Stories	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Superb Collection	Those who have been following Jeffrey Ford's career have been awaiting this collection eagerly.  Ford's reputation has grown with each story published.  Each of his novels has established his place as one of the premier genre authors of his time.  Finally, the magnificent Golden Gryphon press brings us a collection of Ford's short stories, a collection packed with grade A fiction.<br />Ford's fiction runs the gamut from the delicately beautifully to the wonderfully bizarre.  The masterpiece 'Creation' explores a boy's relationship with his father against the backdrop of a man made out of logs he believes he's created in the forest.  'Creation' is a hauntingly beautiful story that is sure to be included on 2003 award ballets.  'Exo-Skeleton Town' takes place on an alien planet.  The alien inhabitants are crazy about vintage movies, and trade balls of dung, which has aphrodisiac qualities, for copies of the movies. The few humans on the planet wear exo-suits (shaped to look like former film stars) to deal with the planet's atmospheric pressure.  'Exo-Skeleton Town' may be my favorite Ford story.  Filled with lively and believable characters, magnificently odd plot twists and a touching conclusion.  <br />'The Fantasy Writer's Assistant' tells the story of a best-selling fantasy writer who is losing his gift to 'see' into his created universe and turns it over to his assistant.   The assistant learns that the characters in the universe are being exploited by the writer and tries to undo his damage.  &quot;Floating in Lindrethool&quot; is a marvelous noirish story about a door-to-door salesman who tries to sell floating brains in a jar but inadvertently falls in love with one of them.<br />You get the idea.  Jeffrey Ford is a consumate storyteller, a master of the written word.  This collection doesn't even display the full range of Ford's talent.  He has written exquisite stories not included herein, currently available in _The Green Man_ and _Leviathan 3_, that I strongly urge you to read.  Whether you've read Ford's stories previously or he's a complete unknown to you, this collection is one that you must read.  It's not only one of the best genre collections of 2002, it's one of the best I've ever seen.  Highly recommended.	2002-12-04
US	51097716	R207Z7JE7UIKTK	0380979055	431563792	The Visitor	Books	4	2	3	N	N	New Tepper and Old Tepper combined!	_The Visitor_, Tepper's latest novel, is filled with plot reminscent of some of her earliest works.  As in her 'True Game' series, Tepper tells the story of a Far-future world that has lost technology.  Both stories have characters that gradually realize that they are avatars of mythic figures.  For all the similarities though, the two tales are very different.  Sheri Tepper has grown in her abilities over the past 15-20 years. She is able to write a more cohesive and fluid novel now, making _The Visitor_ what one reviewer called 'Tepper's most accessible novel yet'.<br />_The Visitor_ will appeal to fans of both fantasy and science fiction.  Fantasy fans will enjoy the mysterious pillars that reveal character's 'true selves' to them.  They will thrill to the gigantic monsters running over the earth.  Meanwhile, SF fans will enjoy the hidden research lab where humans (who survived a giant cataclysm that sent the earth into its current state) monitor humanity and record its history.<br />_The Visitor_ is an enjoyable novel, but it's not a wholly successful one.  There is a sameness running through it that catches up to the reader by the end.  I think that it could have been a much tighter novel were 50 pages of exposition cut.  In the end, _The Visitor_ is an entertaining book that had the potential to be a standout novel.	2002-12-04
US	51097716	R1YXNSZ75Q9LUQ	0224008943	53480161	Vermilion Sands (Vintage Future)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magnificent stories	The beachfront, decadent community of Vermilion Sands is the setting for each of the nine wonderful stories in this collection.  Vermilion Sands is where the rich are.  They vacation, they play, they search for lost loves, and above all, they are horribly narcissistic.<br />Vermilion Sands is home to the magnificent singing sonic sculptures, tall statues that emit music or atonal sounds when they sense movement.  The marvelous sand yachts of the rich, their trained sand rays (giant white manta rays that float through the air), the cloud-sculptors, the living clothes, and the psychotropic houses all live on in the mind long after the stories have been read.  Vermilion Sands is a striking setting, one of the more memorable in fiction.<br />The themes of the stories are fairly similar.  Most dwell on unattainable or forsaken love.  In &quot;Say Goodbye to the Wind&quot;, a former model pines for her departed love.  In &quot;Studio 5, the Stars&quot; an aspiring poetess dreams of tragic love.  And so it goes in each story.  But the stories are fresh and have enough energy to overcome a repetitive theme.<br />Ballard's futuristic city stands as a monument to the power of a memorable fictional setting.  Indeed, Vermilion Sands is as powerful as Jeffrey Thomas's Punktown or Jeff VanderMeer's Ambergris to use two recent examples.  I'm hoping that Mr. Ballad has seen fit to write more Vermilion Sands stories in the 30+ years since this collection was published.  I can only hope that I find more.	2002-11-25
US	51097716	R1OSOIJ87I24Q1	0765303663	340488847	Spaceland: A Novel of the Fourth Dimension	Books	4	6	6	N	N	4th Dimensional Fun	Rudy Rucker must be one strange guy.  _Spaceland_ is one of the most imaginative, but at the same time grounded, novels I've ever read.  The premise of the novel is out there: What if there were an actual fourth dimension?  Rucker goes even further into imaginative realms with his incredibly bizarre characters that inhabit the dimension.<br />Brief summary: Warring creatures of the fourth dimension want to take each other's land but are blocked by our world, or Spaceland, which lies between them.  A fourth dimensional being, Momo, induces hapless Silicon Valley manager Joe Cube to market a marvelous new instantaneous messaging device that will tear Spaceland apart, allowing warfare between the two sides. <br />Amazingly Rucker is able to tell his 'far out' story in such a way that it never seems too implausible.  This is a marvelous science fiction novel.  Unfortunately, Mr. Rucker is below the radar of most popular SF readers so this entertaining award-worthy novel will undoubtedly go unnoticed by the SF populace.  Don't miss this stand-out novel.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-25
US	51097716	R31Q052DPCM3LT	0425185133	862288153	Code of the West	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Saddle Up for a Good Novel	I was initially drawn to this novel by the promise of 'King Arthur in the Wild West', and while the novel does tell a loose approximation of the Arthur myth, this novel is the story of one man's struggle to find himself in the old West.<br />Jimmy Goodnight, kidnapped by Indians as a child, is a legendary figure in the West after he uses Comanche skills to 'talk' a supposedly immovable axe out of an anvil.  He sets up a ranch and wins the love of a wealthy banker's daughter.  He feels his life is complete when he hires a talented and handsome cowboy to be his foreman.  After this the familiar Arthurian elements come ot the fore.  Goodnight's son, conceived in a gang rape of Jimmy's cousin, returns and swears vengeance on Goodnight.  The foreman and Goodnight's wife run off together.  Goodnight bands the ranchers together in a Cattlemen's association.<br />But the Arthurian story is only backdrop for the well-written and engaging cowboy story.  It's fun to try to determine the Arthurian analogues for each character, but this may distract the reader from an entertaining story.<br />Aaron Latham has created a well-done novel, one that has inspired me to track down his previous works.  In the end, _Code of the West_ is a riveting novel (even if it is 50 pages too long).	2002-11-25
US	51097716	R2XFMTCTN1IAQF	0312863543	127444591	The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories and Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Treasury of Magnificent Fiction	Two fantastic stories, \\"The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories\\" and \\"Seven American Nights\\" bookend another excellent collection from the masterful Wolfe.  Several of the stories contained herein were award nominees...and rightfully so.  With each story, the reader gains more appreciation for the skill employed by Wolfe.  Truly he is a master storyteller.<br />The two stories mentioned above stand out as the masterworks of the collection.  Each is a touching and delicate rumination on love and the tender connections that bind us to one another.  In \\"The Island...\\" a young boy retreats into the fantasy setting of a Dr. Moreau-type novel when his chaotic family situation comes to a head. (This is only one way to read the story.  A literal interpretation makes the story even more interesting and is hardly improbable in a Wolfe story)  \\"Seven American Nights\\" tells thte tale of a young Middle Eastern man who comes to a ruined (post-apocalyptic?) America in search of a nebulous goal (Wolfe twice tantalizingly mentions something hidden beneath a mountain.  Nuclear Weapons?)  The young man is entranced by a young actress and his quest is subsumed by desire.  A masterful piece.<br />Other standout stories inlcude \\"The Toy Theater\\" about a powerful puppeteer and \\"The Eyeflash Miracles\\" wherein a blind boy travels with a deranged ex-school superintendent.<br />Wolfe tells dense yet powerful stories.  I don't claim to fully understand his works, but I do make the attempt.  I've yet to read the Gene Wolfe story that wasn't worth my time.  He is one of th most accomplished American writers today.  This collection of his early short fiction is a marvelous collection and should be read.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-25
US	51097716	R2ISGCMLIWAS26	0312876343	370216473	Dark as Day (Cold As Ice Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	On of the Year's Finest SF Novels	In one of his last novels, Charles Sheffield has written one of his best.  _Dark as Day_, the sequel to the entertaining _Cold as Ice_ stars everyone's favorite recluse, grossly overweight puzzle master, The Great Bat, in another life or death race across the solar system.<br />Sheffield weaves together three or four simulatneous plotlines to present a cohesive and thrilling story of the potential end of the universe.  Bat, avid Great War history buff, discovers that an evil scientist created an apocalyptic 'sleeper' virus that may be activated soon.  This plotline coupled with a possible first contact with aliens creates a compelling novel that should be included among the year's top SF novels.<br />Also, from a purely asthetic viewpoint, the packaging for _Dark as Day_ is among the finest I've seen recently.  From the superb Vincent Di Fate cover to the attractive designs and fonts throughout the novel, this book is a treat to read.  It's said not to judge a book by its cover but in this case you won't go wrong.<br />Summary: Entertaining and vey well-written story.  Believable and compelling characters.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-25
US	51097716	R31CLK9TS5FTQD	1880448920	316890217	Does Anyone Else Have Something Further to Add?	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mind-bogglingly good fiction	R.A. Lafferty was a master of wonderful and bizarre fiction. The 14 stories collected here are a fine example of Lafferty's style.  The stories are divided into two sections; those dealing with 'Secret Places' and those dealing with 'Mean Men'.  Every once in a while a story will take place in a strange place AND have angry characters, so the division isn't perfect, but it's only a contrivance.  The real joy is in the stories themselves...and they are good ones.<br />My favorite story in this volume is \\"Groaning Hinges of the World\\".  What a feast for the imagination.  The setting is a South Seas island.  A fisherman is at sea when he hears a tremendous grinding noise.  He returns and finds that a tribe of islanders that had previously been passive were now vicious warriors.  The fisherman recalls an old legend that parts of the Earth would occasionally turn on their hinges, replacing the known land with a land of opposites.  The new vicious warriors kidnap, rape, and murder.  The other islanders live in fear until they decide to manually flip the Hinges over.  This story is indicative of Lafferty's fiction; bizarre and some of the most original work you'll ever read.<br />\\"Mad Man\\" takes place in a future where robots are common.  Robots require fluids from an extremely angry human to function.  So, scientists run a factory where they employ men with short tempers in mind-numbingly repetitive and frustrating tasks.  When the man loses his temper, they take a sample of his blood.  Bizarre and original.<br />Most of the other stories are equally weird.  Entertaining too.  Lafferty was an unappreciated genius.  His works are being reprinted by the wonderful Wildside Press.  Fans of discerning fiction should be jumping for joy.  Unfortunately, even in death Lafferty is an unknown to most fans of speculative fiction.  For those of you who are unfamiliar with him: You have much to look forward to!  Lafferty was a prolific writer and there are dozens of his novels and collections on the market.  Enjoy people.  You will not be sorry.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-06
US	51097716	R39LF1G6IP7Z2F	0385159919	85131844	Gene Wolfe's Book of Days	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Story for Every Day	The premise behind _Gene Wolfe's Book of Days_ is that each story in the book is written for a different holiday.  There's a a story for Lincoln's Birthday, one for Halloween, even one for Armistice Day.  The connection between story and holiday sometimes seem tenuous, but it's all in fun.  The real treat here is yet another fabulous Gene Wolfe story collection.<br />If you're familiar with Wolfe you know that his fiction is occasionally opaque.  Wolfe stories very often have multiple meanings that require multiple readings to fully understand.  Stories like &quot;Paul's Treehouse&quot; fit this description.  Two neighbors are sitting on their lawns.  One neighbors son has built a treehouse very high in a tree and refuses to come down. Interspersed with this story is background about some unnamed unrest in the city.  Suddenly National Guardsmen swarm the backyard.  The son throws rocks at the Guardsmen.  The End.  Don't ask me for an explanation because I have no idea.  <br />Fortunately, for those of us who are 'regular' readers, many of the stories are much simpler.  Among the better pieces are &quot;Forlesen&quot;, &quot;The War Beneath the Tree&quot;, and &quot;Melting&quot;.  &quot;The War...&quot; has become one of Wolfe's more well-known pieces.  A boy plays with his sentient toys on Christmas Eve.  The toys watch packages being placed under the Christmas tree with apprehension.  When everyone has gone to sleep, the new toys emerge.  The old toys fight them and throw the new toys into the fire.  The story ends on a chilling note that I'll let the reader discover for himself.<br />Gene Wolfe has never disappointed me.  He is a writer of quality and passion.  His intricate stories can amuse me for hours.  He is a top-notch writer and I strongly encourage all fans of speculative fiction to read his works.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-06
US	51097716	R1G2Y127GZLP6S	0312288794	497362215	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Nineteenth Annual Collection (No. 19)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Fantastic Collection of Short Fiction	Gadner Dozois' year-end SF anthologies are always a feast for short fiction lovers.  They are packed with some of the very best short SF stories of the previous year. This year's volume is no exception.<br />My favorite story from this year's collection is &quot;The Chief Designer&quot; by Andy Duncan.  It details the secret history behind the Soviet space program. Duncan tells a beautiful and moving story that brought tears to my eyes by its conclusion.<br />Also of a very high quality are &quot;Isabel of the Fall&quot; by Ian MacLeod, &quot;The Human Front&quot; by Ken MacLeod, &quot;The Dog Said Bow-Wow&quot; by Michael Swanwick, &amp; &quot;One Horse Town&quot; by Howard Waldrop &amp; Leigh Kennedy.<br />While compiling the list of my favorite stories in this anthology, I realized the futility of the task. This book is packed with well-written and engaging stories.  How could I not mention the stories from Robert Reed, James Patrick Kelly, Alastair Reynolds, Ian MacLeod (again), Chris Beckett, Michael Cassutt or Dan Simmons? They are all very good stories that deserve to be acclaimed loudly and enthusiastically.<br />I noticed an interesting trend in myself while I was reading this volume. I enjoyed almost every single story while reading it in this volume more than when I read them in their original publication.  In fact, I actively disliked several of them (the Reed, the Kelly, &amp; the Reynolds) after the first reading.  Yet after reading them in this collection, I can see what fantastic stories they are.  I think that stories sometimes get lost in their original publication. If a person subscribes to several fiction magazines, the pressure to read each story may cause the reader to read too quickly and skim over a story. I rely on editors like Gardner Dozois to bring my attention to the very best stories of the year.<br />This is a very strong volume.  Dozois chooses excellent stories that represent the various schools of SF, providing an excellent overviewof 'what's going on in SF'.  If you're interested in short SF, you need to read this volume.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-02
US	51097716	R1M7T2PJEU8Q2W	0972054707	739984662	Polyphony, Volume 1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent Collection of Slipstream Fiction	_Polyphony_ is a new anthology series that showcases excellent stories that lie somewhere between mainstream fiction and fantastic/SF fiction.  The stories in this, the premiere volume of Polyphony, are of a consistently high quality.<br />My favorite story in the volume (and picking a favorite story is like shooting fish in a barrel) is from Victoria Elisabeth Garcia.  &quot;Anthropology&quot; is her first published story. It's about the intricate plans a woman goes through to seduce an anthropology professor. An excellent piece of work.<br />The rest of the anthology is very good as well. The reader should pay special attention to the stories by Carol Emshwiller, Maureen McHugh, James Van Pelt, Bruce Holland Rogers, &amp; Douglas Lain.  Carrie Vaughn writes a very nice story, but the first half of the story is eerily similar to the recent war movie 'Enemy at the Gates'.  I assume that either the similarity is coincidental or that both stories are rooted in the same historical facts (with which I am unfamiliar).<br />I was slightly disappointed with the stories by Andy Duncan and Lucius Shepard. They're nice enough but don't have any of the zest both writers normally deliver. Be warned, Shepard's piece was published previously in an e-book.  <br />I'm eagerly looking forward to the next volume in the Polyphony series.  With luck (and reader support), Polyphony will become successful and continue indefinitely.  If the quality of the fiction is as excellent as it is in this collection, I can't wait.	2002-11-02
US	51097716	R11MZ43JUOZ2NQ	0380978369	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Time-Travel with Dinosaurs	_Bones of the Earth_ is perhaps Michael Swanwick's most accessible work of fiction. The writing is straightforward with a minimal amount of literary technique.  It's a good, strong novel, but it's one that can be enjoyed by the masses, not just the literary elite. As such, this is the novel that is likely to catapult Swanwick into the consciousness of the bookstore SF crowd; the ones who don't read fiction magazines or small-press books. <br />This is a long overdue development.  Swanwick has been one of SF's premier authors for almost 20 years. His cumulative body of work is tremendous, making him a strong candidate for grandmaster status (in a few decades).  <br />_Bones.._ is a highly entertaining novel. It's a spin-off from the Hugo-winning story &quot;Scherzo with Tyrannosaur&quot; (which is fantastic in its own right).  _Bones.._ will likely appeal to both hardcore SF readers and novices to the genre. No one will confuse this novel with _Jurassic Park_.  The dinosaurs play only a minor part in the story.  They're essentially background setting, allowing the humans to interact with one another.  <br />Brief Summary: Humanity has been given time travel by a strange alien-looking race called The Unchanging.  The Unchanging claim to be from Earth's future. A team of scientists gradually discover that The Unchanging are synthetic creations. Additionally they find that there is only one Unchanging and that he's looped through time thousands, if not millions, of times to provide the illusion of a large number of them. Eventually humanity discovers the truth behind the gift of time travel.  <br />To recap: Highly entertaining novel. Very accessible. Likely to be a 2003 Hugo nominee. Very nice way to spend a few hours.	2002-11-02
US	51097716	R1H03NG1Q5OHP2	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Pleasant Way to Spend an Evening	Orson Scott Card has written both good and bad novels. Picking up a new Card novel is always a risky proposition. Which Card will show up? _Shadow Puppets_ lurks in the gray middle-ground between Good Card and Bad Card, but thankfully it's shaded more towards the Good side of the spectrum.<br />_Shadow Puppets_ is the third in a series of novels that are roughly parallel to Card's original Ender story. _Ender's Shadow_ tells the story of Bean, a major character in _Ender's Game_.  _Shadow of the Hegemon_ takes place after _Ender's Game_.  Ender has left Earth permanently and Bean and the rest of the Battle School cadets have taken positions of prominence in Earth's post-war government. _Shadow Puppets_ is a direct sequel to _..Hegemon_.  Bean's nemesis, Achilles, is a global bully who delights in war and terror.  Achilles wants revenge and manipulates his friends and enemies to get it.<br />Meanwhile Bean's intriguing story continues.  In _...Hegemon_ we learn that Bean is a genetically modified human. He is super-intelligent and will grow taller and taller until he dies at a young age. Bean falls in love with Petra, another former Battle Schooler. They decide to have children, but Bean doesn't want to curse his children with a lifestyle identical to his own.  Consequently, much of the novel is spent trying to find a way to free his progeny of the burden. <br />The novel is written in Card's typical straightforward style. It is easily readable and will appeal to teenage readers.  If you've read and enjoyed the previous Ender novels (and particularly the two immediately preceding this one) you will want to purchase _Shadow Puppets_.	2002-11-02
US	51097716	R1ECT2QNZ46T7X	0446610771	676153144	Warchild	Books	4	11	12	N	N	One of the most compelling genre debuts in quite some time	Karin Lowachee has written a marvelous debut novel.  One of the most engaging and exciting debuts since _Ender's Game_, way back in the mid-80s.  <br />In _Warchild_, Lowachee has written a startingly good mil-SF yarn.  I'll forgo any plot summary here.  I'm sure it's available elsewhere on this page.  Suffice it to say that Lowachee's novel is not only one of the best SF debuts in 2002, but it's one of the best SF novels of the year.  <br />The plot is exciting.  Lowachee's aliens are fascinatingly different.  The three-way conflict between space pirates, aliens, and Earth Fleet is convincing and compelling.  Lowachee writes most of the novel in first-person, though the opening section is, daringly, written from a second-person perspective.  This is a compulsively readable book.  I was hard pressed to put it down. <br />By the end of the novel, I was ready for more.  Here's hoping there's a sequel!	2002-10-31
US	51097716	R2TCT6J6WK9UU1	0966896882	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An Extraordinary Book	Beautiful and lush imagery highlight this collection; sure to be one of th best genre books of 2002.  This edition of the VanderMeer collection contains each of the four novellas from the 2001 paperback (including the World Fantasy Award winning 'The Transformation of Martin Lake') and augments them with two major new novellas and assorted other Ambergris material, including an expanded Ambergris glossary.<br />The collection begins with the fantastic 'Dradin in Love'; the story of a former missionary who moves to the city of Ambergris and immediately falls hopelessly in love.  The story details Dradin's exploration of Ambergris and his growing infatuation with a woman he has not met.  His correspondence with his love is facilitated by a dwarf who has a map of the world tattoed on his head.  'Dradin..' is beautiful and exciting and serves as an excellent introduction to the city of Ambergris.<br />Second is 'The Hoegbotton Guide to the Early History of Ambergris'; a fascinating historical study of the origins of Ambergris.  An excellent piece.<br />Next up is 'The Transformation of Martin Lake' which tells the story of a painter Martin Lake's transformation from an obscure artist to a master.  The story is told against the background of a turbulent time in Ambergris.  The death of famous composer Voss Bender has polarized the city, dividing the citizens into Reds (Bender supporters) and the Greens (Anti-Bender).  This is a beautiful story that justly won the World Fantasy award.<br />'The Strange Case of X' features a best-selling author named Jeff VanderMeer who is apparently under the delusion that Ambergris actually exists.  Nicely done.<br />The material original to this volume is equally compelling.  Most notable is the lengthy biography of the King Squid, a creature native to Ambergris.  Both brilliant and hilarious, this piece presents more background to Ambergris.<br />Also notable is 'The Cage', the story of a strange cage that may have belonged to the mysterious gray caps.  The cage is purchased by a pawnbroker (a member of the famous Hoegbotton family) who slowly begins to question his sanity as he spends time around the cage.<br />The collection is rounded out with a piece 'by' Ambergrisian author Nicholas Sporlender (under which name VanderMeer also wrote 'The Exchange' which is worth tracking down), an expanded Ambergris glossary (which is well worth the 30-40 minutes of reading time.  Excellent) and an encrypted story that the reader must decipher word by word.  Be forewarned, it will drive you mad.<br />But the fun doesn't stop there.  There is a complete story on the front and back dustjacket, as well as an entertaining fictional biography of VanderMeer inside the DJ.<br />I have fallen in love with Ambergris.  This collection is in a category all its own.  I've never seen its like before and don't expect to find another in the near future.  This book will be my 2002 Christmas gift to the readers on my list.  Make sure you don't miss it.  Highly recommended.	2002-08-20
US	51097716	R35U428AQWQCTM	0441008410	480002068	The House in the High Wood (Western Lights Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A dark and compelling fantasy	Over the span of two novels Jeffrey Barlough has become one of my favorite writers.  Barlough's strengths lie in his picturesque depictions of a world in the aftermath of a great cataclysm (that either hasn't been fully explained yet or that I have unfortunately missed) and his marvelously vivid characters.  Barlough's charming characters have great names like Mr. Nicodemus Binks, Mr. Shank Bottom, Miss Cherry Ives, and Mr. Alfred Snorem.  <br />Barlough writes with a non-traditional writing style.  Both of his current novels read much like a Charles Dickens novel.  But Barlough's novels have entertaining plots too.  In _The House in the High Wood_, Barlough introduces the reader to the small town of Shilston Upcot, which has a dark and mysterious past.  The reclusive squire, Mark Trench, sets out to uncover the hideous secrets behind the disappearance of his father many years past.<br />I think that a reader coming to this novel without a great deal of patience will not fully appreciate it.  Barlough's story moves at a leisurely pace with frequent digressions to explain a character's backstory.  One of the complaints that I heard frequently with regards to Barlough's first novel, _Dark Sleeper_, is that the plot was subsumed by Barlough's characters.  Those who agree with this statement will likely find much of the same in this novel.  Those of us who enjoy intriguing characters and wonderful stylistic differences will love both of Barlough's first novels.  <br />_The House in the High Wood_ is one of my favorite fantasies of 2001.  Highly recommended.	2002-05-24
US	51097716	R36ZHZYD13U0KW	0312877366	203737362	Eyes of the Calculor (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Outstanding conclusion to a highly entertaining series	I'm slightly perplexed as to why Sean McMullen's excellent Greatwinter series hasn't achieved wider acclaim.  I never hear fans speaking of McMullen.  As of today, there are only 3 reader reviews on Amazon for a book that was released nearly a year ago.  This lack of attention is especially frustrating given that McMullen is writing some of the most entertaining novels I've encountered in quite some time.<br />McMullen's series is set in the far future after a cataclysmic war that resulted in the abolition of all technology.  The Earth returns to an 1800s level of technology.  The main action in McMullen's novels occurs in Australia (or Australica) where a half-human, half-bird hybrid (aviads) have revolted against humanity.  The underlying reasons and plots of books 1 & 2 are too complex to go into here.  <br />Book 3 picks up where Book 2 left off.  The aviads are increasing their campaign against the humans.  But it seems as though the Aviad-Human conflict is only a backdrop for McMullen's larger human stories.  McMullen focuses on about 5 or 6 characters throughout the novel.  He has a deft touch for bringing subtle character issues to the forefront of the story.  The combination of good characters and entertaining story make this novel a winner.  _Eyes of the Calculor_ has all the flavor of the best space operas.<br />I've eagerly devoured each of McMullen's novels that has found print thus far.  I've even gone so far as to track down copies of his earlier Australian novels (essentially Book 1 in the series).  I eagerly look forward to each of his new releases.  He is without question one of my favorite authors and one that I can highly recommend to you.	2002-05-24
US	51097716	R1QN16C5WTVHBD	1587154366	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen: The Book of Ambergris	Books	5	63	74	N	N	Beautifully Magical	'The City of Saints and Madmen' is easily my favorite collection of 2001.  Comprised of four stories, each more deliciously exotic and fascinating than the one before, this attractively priced trade paperback is sure to entrance all readers willing to immerse themselves in VanderMeer's brilliantly conceived world.<br />VanderMeer's Ambergris is easily the most lavish and enticing fantastic world that I've yet to encounter.  Articulating the brilliance of this book would require writing skills on a par with VanderMeer himself.  I can only point to the book and insist that it is excellent.  Truly excellent.<br />Taken by themselves, the stories are small gems...but when looked at as a whole, as part of the wonderful Ambergrisian tapestry, they become more than the sum of their parts.  I anguished with the title character in 'Dradin in Love' as he realizes that his passionate longing for a mysterious woman is unlikely to be consummated.  The fascinating history of Ambergris as told in 'The Hoegbotton Guide to Ambergris by Duncan Shriek' is surely one of the most complete histories of a fictional world ever conceived.  The World Fantasy Award Winning 'The Transformation of Martin Lake' tells the amazing story of a humble artist who is transformed into a master through a harrowing and bizarre experience.  Finally, 'The Strange Case of X' blurs the lines between fantasy and reality as an author whose life appears analogous to VanderMeer's undergoes rigorous questioning concerning the substance of reality.<br />Under VanderMeer's watchful eye, Ambergris is a thriving and exotic landscape.  I devoured this collection in a matter of hours.  Hungry for more I jumped onto the internet and searched out more VanderMeer.  Ambergris is so fascinating and richly exotic that I could see VanderMeer writing about its Living Saints and Graycaps for decades without running out of stories to tell.  <br />Immerse yourself in Ambergris.  The land is hauntingly beautiful and terrifyingly real.  I can see myself re-reading this brilliant collection several times a year.  This masterful collection belongs on the bookshelf of every fan of speculative fiction.  I'm eagerly looking forward to the Deluxe edition which supposedly contains 30,000 more words about this wonderful place and is supposed to be released Real Soon Now.  <br />This volume, exciting and beautiful, is easily one of my all-time favorite books.  Try it yourself.  You won't be disappointed.  Highly Recommended.	2002-04-10
US	51097716	R1081J0V7ZUALW	080211685X	263607882	Going, Going, Gone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Psychedelic Fun	I never would have thought that I would enjoy a book that contains abundant drug use to the degree that I enjoyed Jack Womack's newest novel.  _Going, Going, Gone_ is a witty and psychedelic alternate history/time travel/parallel universe/ghost story all-in-one.  The narrative flows easily once the reader becomes accustomed to Womack's out-there jargon.<br />The protagonist, Walter, is a counterculture government freelancer who's hired by the Kennedy family (indirectly) to convince Jim Kennedy to assassinate Bobby.  Walter is perplexed by the ghosts floating in his living room and moaning his name.  And he's not quite sure what to make of the gorgeous woman and her muscular companion that speak in bizarrely mangled English and who appear and disappear with regularity.<br />As the story progresses the various threads weave together in a surprisingly coherent (given the disparate threads)narrative.  This is Book 5 in Womack's 'Ambient' series.  It's not necessary to have read the previous 4 to enjoy this one but you'll soon find yourself searching for the other books in the series.  Highly enjoyable throughout.  Recommended.	2002-03-06
US	51097716	RXMXHJ7NT21W8	1930846045	893698827	The Wild Boy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Thoroughly Enjoyable Debut	The esteemed Golden Gryphon press makes a solid breakthrough into the novel field with Warren Rochelle's compelling debut novel _The Wild Boy_.  Golden Gryphon is a publisher that's renowned for its line of excellent short story collections, nearly every one of which I highly recommend.  Here Warren Rochelle makes a marvelous debut with his story of alien invasion that harks back to SF's early wild-and-wooly adventure stories.<br />But don't confuse this novel with Andre Norton's interplanetary space operas or L. Ron Hubbard's _Battlefield: Earth_, to which this novel is quite similar.  _The Wild Boy_ is an engaging and exciting book with novel characters and intriguing alien/human interaction.<br />The story is simple enough.  Aliens search for an ancient race which are similar to humans.  They unleash a plague on humanity and enslave the majority of the survivors in an attempt to mold us into the lost race.  Humans are kept as pets and called 'dogs'.  Their breeding is curtailed.  The alien experiment begins to bear fruit when a 'dog' and his alien master form a mental bond.<br />This book receives the highest praise I can give a book; it kept me up past my bedtime.  It's thrilling, compelling and literate.  Critics may claim that the aliens aren't alien enough.  There may be some truth to that but it wasn't an impediment to my enjoyment of the novel.  A sparkling debut novel.  Recommended.	2002-03-06
US	51097716	R2ODG6DSPCFL65	0312873735	457270368	The Collected Stories of Vernor Vinge	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Uneven, but generally good, collection	It's no secret that Vernor Vinge is an accomplished novelist (Need proof?  He's won Hugo Awards for each of his last two novels).  But how is he at short fiction?  This is the question I was asking myself when I picked up this volume.  I've read and greatly enjoyed all of his novels (save the fix-up effort 'Tatja Grimm's World), but haven't read (or even heard) of any of his shorter works.<br />I was by and large satisfied with this collection of short fiction.  While there are no excellent stories here, neither are there any bottom-dwellers.  Many of the stories take place in the settings of Vinge's novels.  'The Ungoverned' takes place after the events in his 'Peace War' series.  'The Blabber' fits into his Deepness duology.  'The Barbarian Princess' is part of the Grimm's World book.  But the stories that don't fit into Vinge's novels share many of the same ideas and themes.  Many, if not all, of the stories posit a Technological Singularity, an occurence that is featured prominently in nearly all of Vinge's work.<br />My favorite story is 'Original Sin' a fascinating and evocative depiction of an alien society.  The sole story original to the collecton, novella 'Fast Times at Fairmont High' is an enjoyable depiction of a future junior high school.   <br />None of the stories in the collection have the depth or Importance of Vinge's award-winning novels, but nearly every story is compulsively readable and entertaining.  This is a fine addition to the Vinge completist's book shelf.	2002-02-11
US	51097716	RO0GJQ3I1UJJY	0312874480	213289808	Mother of Kings	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Difficult but rewarding novel	I freely admit that I'm often a lazy and careless reader.  I enjoy reading books that I can read quickly without sacrificing comprehension of the text (see Robert Jordan, etc.)  But occasionally I try to read more complex books, and _Mother of Kings_ is definitely a complex novel.  <br />This is not an easy read.  The plot is difficult to follow.  Sometimes the novel moves slowly, sometimes quickly.  The character names are unfamiliar and often either similar or identical to each other (Anderson apologizes for this in his Afterward but notes that since the novel is based on historical facts there was little he could do).<br />But for all its difficulties, this is a very rewarding novel.  I found myself enthralled with the devious machinations of Gunnhild, the 'mother' from the title.  Much of the action in the novel occurs away from the reader, so Anderson tells us about it rather than showing it to us.  This is generally considered a no-no, but Anderson does an able job with it.<br />This novel is quite long.  The actually page count is under 500, but the words are really packed onto the pages.  I would estimate that _Mother of Kings_ has the same word count as a 550-600 page novel.  Don't pick this one up unless you have the time and the motivation to finish it.  One of my 5 favorite fantasy novels from 2001.  Highly recommended.	2002-02-11
US	51097716	R36FHMFY0MPDF3	1930846061	578975116	Impact Parameter: And Other Quantum Realities	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I was surprised by the depth of this story collection.  I had Landis pegged as an 'Analog author', meaning one that writes good science but poor story.  I am overjoyed to admit that I was wrong.<br />This is a quite good story collection.  Some of the stories are typical Analog fare, but the majority of them are extraordinary tales that will please any SF reader.  The stories are arranged roughly in chronological order.  There is some variation but the newer stories are grouped more towards the back of the volume.  This allows the reader to watch Landis' growth from his humble beginnings as part of Stan Schmidt's cadre to an author who is published in diverse venues.<br />There is no one story in this collection that stands out as 'Best of the Book'.  'Beneath the Stars of Winter', 'Winter Fire', 'A Walk in the Sun', 'Dark Lady', 'Approaching Perimelasma', and the humorous 'What We Do Here at NASA' are all mature and engaging pieces of fiction.  I was slightly disappointed with the acclaimed 'The Singular Habits of Wasp', a Holmes pastiche which had a plot reminiscent of Michael Dibdin's classic novel _The Last Sherlock Holmes Story_.  <br />While reading this collection I discovered that Mr. Landis is a mature and talented author with a mastery of the art of pacing.  Each of his stories flows.  They reach a peak and then gently diminish.  I am very impressed with this collection and will very soon begin an avid search for more of Landis' stories.  Highly recommended.	2002-02-11
US	51097716	R1GTASEOQJZGEK	1930846053	933098355	Strange Trades	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A masterful collection of short fiction	Prior to reading _Strange Trades_ I knew Paul Di Filippo as an author of wonderfully bizarre short stories.  They don't always make sense, but they're wonderful just the same.  This collection collects typically bizarre Di Filippo stories, but these are coherent, well-written stories.  Truly, a masterful collection.<br />My favorite story is the novella &quot;The Mill&quot;, set in the distant future on a planet where humans work in a mill for the benefit of alien overlords.  The story brilliantly shows us the toil and struggle of the workers and their dedication to their masters.<br />The other stories are all equally good.  'Karuna, Inc.' is the tale of an evil cadre of businessmen out to take over an ecologically-minded firm with the help of their undead revenants.  'Spondulix' tells the fascinating story of how a sandwich maker created a form of underground currency.  <br />My attempts to laud this collection don't do it justice.  It's a fabulous book.  Hands down my favorite collection from 2001.  If you have any interest in short science fiction you must buy this collection immediately.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-01
US	51097716	R1OLYSM9J9JL2J	0451458591	679410645	Redshift: Extreme Visions of Speculative Fiction	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Solid collection of speculative fiction	This is a good, solid collection of speculative fiction.  It's not the ground-breaking force that Sarrantonio predicts it will be in his introduction, but it's a nice collection nonetheless.<BR>Sarrantonio compares _Redshift_ to Ellison's 'Dangerous Visions' series, saying that many of the stories in _Redshift_ are too 'dangerous' or controversial to be published in traditional sources.  In my opinion, the only controversial story in the anthology is Sarrantonio's own 'Billy the Fetus', which I assume wouldn't be published in traditional outlets because it's too disgusting.  The remainder of the stories are far more mainstream.<br />My favorite stories in this anthology are 'In the Un-Black' by Stephen Baxter and 'Cleopatra Brimstone' by Elizabeth Hand.  Hand's story is a novella about a student studying entomology who discovers she has supernatural powers while integrating the London goth scene.  The student, who was a victim of a rape earlier in the story, takes her revenge on men by somehow turning them into butterflies.  It's a haunting story that stays in mind long after it's over.<br />Baxter's contribution to the volume is set in his familiar Xeelee universe.  This story concerns a race of drones who work the entirety of their short lives in slavery to a master race in the hopes that they can win passage out of their imprisonment.  The story centers around two drones who flaunt their master's rules and fall in love.  Less hard science than most of Baxter's pieces, which is why I enjoyed it so much.<br />Other good stories come from Dan Simmons, Harry Turtledove, P.D. Cacek, Kit Reed, Nina Kiriki Hoffman, David Morrell, and Rudy Rucker &amp; John Shirley.  There were only two stories in the collection that didn't work for me, those by Gene Wolfe and Neal Barrett, Jr. (particularly disappointing since both authors are among my personal favorites). <br />On the whole this was an enjoyable anthology.  Nearly 550 pages of fiction from the biggest names in SF.  This is a SF-lovers dream come true.  It's a fat collection with good stories from favorite authors.  Recommended.	2002-01-01
US	51097716	R3KZN3USTUSAOX	0679766588	590174788	The Last Sherlock Holmes Story	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Shocking and Quite Good	As many other reviewers have noted, this is a book that hinges on an unexpected event that occurs halfway through the novel.  So as not to spoil the surprise (which is what makes this novel so fun) I am not going to mention this shocking event.<br />I will mention how much fun this novel is.  The first 130 pages are a common Holmes pastiche.  It's enjoyable, but nothing spectacular.  We get to see Holmes' typical brilliance, Watson's affable loyalty, and Lestrade's bumbling ineptitude as Holmes hunts Jack the Ripper.  This isn't a new idea.  Holmes has hunted the Ripper in several other books.  But the shocking &amp; unforeseen ending sets this book apart from the others.<br />When I read the 'surprising passage' I was stunned.  I had to put the book down for a few moments to gather my thoughts.  Then I continued and couldn't put the book down until I was finished.  Dibdin has created a stunning piece of work that belongs in every Holmes aficionados library.  This is a book that has generated quite a bit of criticism from Holmes loyalists however.  It doesn't portray the Great Detective in the best light.  Those who enter the book without any preconceived notions of What a Holmes Story Should Be Like, will find an enchanting, exciting and above all, wonderful Sherlock Holmes pastiche.<br />I enjoyed this book tremendously.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-24
US	51097716	RFI8UW00Y6FA3	0399122400	726391443	Blind Voices	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An extraordinary novel	It's a shame that _Blind Voices_ was Tom Reamy's only novel.  This novel is so extraordinary that it makes one wonder what Reamy would have been able to do if he had lived.  First novels are typically choppy, but this one is anything but.  _Blind Voices_ is a seamless tale of a small Midwestern town and the madman who comes and destroys their idyllic life.<br />The townsfolk are excited when a traveling wonder show comes to town.  Everyone wants to see the Minotaur, the tiny man, Medusa, the Invisible Man, and the rest of the amazing attractions.  One by one, the young townspeople are seduced by different aspects of the carnival.  And the reader gradually learns that the charming master of the carnival is anything but.<br />This is a marvelous story of magic and human feelings.  Reamy does a wonderful job of conveying the depth of emotions experienced by the townspeople as the world as they know it comes to an end.  We feel pity for the Carnival leader's monstrous creations as they struggle with their humanity.  Simply put, this is a wonderful novel and one that I highly recommend.	2001-11-24
US	51097716	R3QVBKVZXJTKG7	0965590194	778792789	Think Like a Dinosaur: And Other Stories	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Wonderful story collection	James Patrick Kelly is a wonderful secret.  If you polled a representative sampling of readers who call themselves SF fans, I would bet that not 50% are familiar with James Patrick Kelly.  This is a shame because Mr. Kelly's work are of the very highest quality.  This collection of short fiction shows off the very best of Kelly's stories and not one of them should be missed.<br />My favorite story of the collection is 'Mr. Boy', a wonderful novella about a 25-year-old who has re-engineered himself to remain in a 12-year-old body.  This is Mr. Boy.  Throughout the story Mr. Boy begins to mature, and he's not quite sure how to handle this.  This 60+ page novella makes the entire collection worth purchasing, but there's so much more.<br />The wonderful stories &quot;Rat&quot;, &quot;Monsters&quot;, &quot;Think Like a Dinosaur&quot;, and many more make this one of the most outstanding collections that I've had the good fortune to come across.  Like all Golden Gryphon press books, this is an extraordinary collection from a very talented author.  The Golden Gryphon imprint on a book is enough to make me open the wallet, even if it's an author that I am totally unfamiliar with.  They put out excellent quality books filled with very good fiction.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-24
US	51097716	R6YQDF0NO6BUW	1563896656	702953874	1: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Outstanding comic book	First off, I am not generally a comic-book reader so my reaction and comments may be very different from the norm.  That being said, I really enjoyed _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_, a fantastic steampunk view of late 19th century London.<br />The premise of the comic is that a shadowy British government figure gathers together adventurers (The Invisible Man, Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde, Captain Nemo, Allan Quatermain, &amp; Mina from _Dracula_) to do secretive work.  The premise is a little rocky.  Why gather these 'heros' when you could use British military?  But it's all in fun.<br />The stories are compelling, the drawings are excellent, and the characters are fascinating.  I really enjoyed the design of Nemo's Nautilus, and the gigantic statues situated throughout London.  The tongue-in-cheek introductions by the authors are hilarious.  On the whole this is a fabulous comic book collection.  With the exception of one or two scenes (a sexually voracious headmistress at a boarding school, and a semi-graphic rape scene) I can whole-heartedly recommend this collection to anyone.	2001-11-23
US	51097716	R2NREDKIY5XGBC	1886778353	711347570	Quartet: Four Tales from the Crossroads	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Hit-and-Miss collection	Martin's latest collection contains some excellent work, but also some pretty second-rate stuff.  Fans of Martin's ouevre will already be familiar with the excerpt from his exceptional novel _A Game of Thrones_.  While the excerpt stands on its own quite well, it's still an excerpt from a popular novel, so most of the readers of this collection will have read it already.<br />Of much more interest are the other three stories.  The first selection is a portion of an unfinished Martin novel from the 1980s.  I was quite taken with the 100+ pages that are already written and would enjoy seeing a finished product.  Unfortunately with Martin wrapped up in his current epic series, any continuation of _Black and White and Red All Over_ will be some time in the making.  This excerpt is the story of a Jack-the-Ripper type killer in America.  Martin attempted to sell the novel but didn't find any takers.  He points out that in the early 90s, Caleb Carr's _The Alienist_ was a best-selling novel with a similar theme and writes, with a tinge of bitterness, that there apparently was a market for such a novel after all!<br />The unproduced teleplay &quot;Starport&quot; for a proposed Fox television series is very difficult to read.  I've always found scripts to be mind-numbingly dull and this was no exception.  Although I have faith in Martin's efforts to create a compelling world, I think we're better off never having seen this one.<br />Finally, the World-Fantasy-Award winning werewolf novella &quot;The Skin Trade&quot; was an enjoyable piece.  I believe this is it's first appearance in a Martin collection.  I wasn't engaged in this story, which is a common problem that I have with World-Fantasy-Award winners.  But that's my problem.<br />Martin fans will particularly enjoy his 2-3 page introductions to each story.  He writes about the events leading up to the creation of the story.  The story behind the genesis of his epic 'Fire &amp; Ice' saga is quite interesting.  On the whole this is an enjoyable book, one that I think is well worth the low purchase price if only for the unfinished novel excerpt alone.  I hope that in the future, Mr. Martin makes time to finish this promising novel.	2001-11-23
US	51097716	R21MJ22XSHBMYV	1881475778	871924113	Ghost Music and Other Tales	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An extraordinary collection of weird fiction	Tessier's first collection _Ghost Music_ is an extraordinary one.  Nearly every story is a small gem, filled with strange occurrences, weird characters, and beautifully literate writing.  Tessier reminds me of Thomas Ligotti, in that both write fiction outside the boundaries of normalcy, and both apply the very highest literary standards to their work.<br />This book is beautifully packaged, put together with care by another great small press, Cemetery Dance.  This is the first CD publication that I've come across and if this is indicative of their general quality (which I believe it is) I will be searching out more.  The stories are collected from the last 15-20 years of Tessier's writing and run the gamut from strange science fiction to tense psychological weirdness.  <br />My favorite stories in the volume are &quot;Evelyn Grace&quot; and &quot;I Remember Me&quot;.  &quot;I Remember Me&quot; is odd in that it's more straight SF than any of the other stories.  The world is hit by a plague wherein everyone forgets who they are and where they live.  Tessier does a remarkable job following one individual through the understated panic resonanting throughout society.  This story is remarkable, it's quickly become one of my favorite SF stories.  &quot;Evelyn Grace&quot; is more typical of Tessier's work.  It's weird and wonderful.<br />Also enjoyable was &quot;Curing Hitler&quot;.  A psychiatrist in a WW 1 era hospital treats a soldier who's gone blind.  There's nothing physically wrong with him and the psychiatrist attempts to help young Adolph overcome his mental block.  Fascinating.<br />This is easily one of the strongest collections that I've read in some time.  I am so thankful that small presses like Cemetery Dance are collecting excellent short fiction.  Without them the works of extraordinary artists like Tessier will be confined to the flimsy pages of forgotten magazines.  Long live the small press!  Highly recommended.	2001-11-23
US	51097716	R19FWN14LQER	0870541781	775696172	In the Stone House	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fantastic collection from one of my favorite authors	I was browsing through Amazon's listings and noticed that this fantastic collection had only one solitary, lonely review.  One review.  Blows my mind.  Malzberg is a powerful writer.  I love his sardonic and arrogant style.  It's been several months since I read the collection so my comments may or may not be relevant, but I felt that I had to write a review to draw a small bit of attention to this overlooked collection.<br />The stories in this collection are, like the majority of Malzberg's hundreds of stories, short.  They're short but they make the reader think.  Malzberg packs a tremendous amount of force into a few short pages.  My favorite stories in the volume are: 'Ship Full of Jews' (in which Christopher Columbus sails to the New World with a hold full of Jewish slaves), 'Hitler at Nuremberg' (in which Hitler does not commit suicide, is tried at Nuremberg, and revealed to be Goering's patsy), 'In the Stone House' (Twisted Kennedy politics, Dad Kennedy survives and rules his family with an iron hand) and 'Standards &amp; Practices' (Emily Dickinson as a modern day college professor).  <br />I love Malzberg's alternate history stories.  He puts neat, totally implausible twists on history.  Fantastic stuff.  In addition to the stories mentioned above there are stories about Lee Harvey Oswald, a couple more Kennedy stories, a story about Raymond Chandler &amp; Dashiell Hammett, an aging Tchaikovsky, and on and on.<br />I've just made up my mind that I have to reread this collection ASAP.  Malzberg's exploration of the human psyche are priceless.  I love reading him.  A recent perusal of his bibliography revealed that he has an enormous number of uncollected stories.  I see that he's recently released an E-collection, but I can't wait for the day when some enterprising company releases 'The Complete Malzberg'.  I'll be first in line to buy a copy.  _In the Stone House_ is Highly Recommended.  One of the finest collections of 2000.	2001-11-17
US	51097716	R29QOBUHZ5FUAQ	0061020559	261586248	Year's Best SF 6 (Year's Best SF (Science Fiction))	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An extraordinary anthology	This strong anthology proves that there is room in the science fiction market for two Year's Best anthologies. I was slightly surprised by this anthology because I have been underwhelmed by previous editions.<br />This year was a different story. I enjoyed nearly every offering in the book. I was particularly impressed with the stories that Mr. Hartwell culled from unusual sources. Robert Silverberg's 'The Millennial Express' from Playboy magazine was particularly impressive. Robert Reed's story 'Grandma's Jumpman' from Century magazine was above average.  I enjoyed the 5 or 6 1-2 page stories from Nature magazine. The stories from David Brin and Dan Simmons stood out from the rest.<br />The anthology also included excellent stories from Howard Waldrop (an amusement-park attraction attains sentience and rebels against its masters) and Ted Chiang (an alternate reality story where Jewish kabbalistic tradition is real and powerful). Brian Stableford's fascinating 'The Last Supper' continues the author's recent exploration of the future of genetics.<br />Not to be overlooked are two award-winning stories, Ursula Le Guin's excellent 'The Birthday of the World' and David Langford's 'Different Kinds of Darkness'. I thoroughly enjoyed this anthology. Highly recommended.	2001-11-08
US	51097716	R1CO7AMMAWBFF2	0843947527	402076302	The Deceased	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Delightfully twisted	_The Deceased_ is a delightfully twisted little novel.  <br />The main character is a horror novelist, following in the footsteps of his father, a novelist with a cultlike following.  When our protagonist was a young child his family was brutally murdered by his axe-wielding older sister.  Or so it seems...<br />The surprising, twisting plot is part of the joy of this novel so I won't give any more of it away here.  Suffice it to say that this is an excellent novel, one that I enjoyed more than I have any other novel in quite some time.  <br />It's horrific but literary as well.  Explores the relationship in a really disturbed family.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-07
US	51097716	R26BRF2I33DL2Z	0312274785	856703441	The Year's Best Science Fiction, Eighteenth Annual Collection	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Stellar anthology of fabulous fiction	This latest edition of Gardner Dozois' long-running Year's Best SF anthology series is worth every penny.  I enjoyed nearly every story in the volume and found it to be, on the whole, much stronger than previous year's editions.<br />Highlights of the volume include 'The Birthday of the World' by Ursula Le Guin; in which a race of 'gods' struggle for power, 'Crux' by Albert Cowdrey; a time travel adventure that has more similarities to the old pulp stories than most recent SF, 'Radiant Green Star' by Lucius Shepard; a fabulous story about an orphan's search for his father while he performs in a circus in Vietnam, 'Great Wall of Mars' by Alastair Reynolds; the story of a renegade colony on Mars and attempts to eradicate it, 'On the Orion Line' by Stephen Baxter; a story of war in space that I found to be one of Baxter's most literate and readable stories, 'A Colder War' by Charles Stross; a brilliant meld of Cthulu fiction and Cold War politics, and my favorite story in the volume 'Tendeleo's Story' by Ian McDonald; the story of a young girl in Africa who grows up amid invasion by alien spores.  <br />Like all anthologies, not all stories will please all readers.  I found 'Milo and Sylvie' by Eliot Fintushel to be WAY overlong, boring, and without a coherent plot.  'Snowball in Hell' by Brian Stableford bogged down with too much gengineering talk...too many big words, not enough plot extrapolation.  <br />This truly is a collection of the Best SF of the year.  There are only a handful of stories that didn't make the book that may have been deserving (stories by Jeffrey Ford, Kage Baker, Charles Sheffield, &amp; Robert Reed spring immediately to mind).  By and large the stories in this book are extremely well-written with fascinating plots.  Consider 'Oracle' by Greg Egan, a story with thinly veiled characterizations of C.S. Lewis and Alan Turing...this is a story that science fiction is all about.  With the exception of the two stories I mentioned earlier, there isn't a sub-par story in this collection.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-24
US	51097716	R3FO1JWUY69U6D	0312867808	815939720	Starlight 3	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Anthology!	Patrick Nielsen Hayden turns out another outstanding Starlight anthology.  If only they could come out on a more regular basis.  The Starlight series is the only significant original fiction anthology series on the market.  <br />Starlight 3 follows up the first two Starlights admirably.  The quality of fiction in the book is consistently high, occasionally achieving excellence.<br />The high point of the anthology for me was 'Senator Bilbo' by Andy Duncan.  Duncan stumbled across a reference to an old Southern senator named Bilbo and turned it into a story about an old right-wing hobbit senator who wants to maintain the 'purity' of the Shire.  Duncan does a great job of portraying a changing Middle Earth without comprising Tolkien's vision.  <br />Other highlights include 'Wolves till the World Goes Down' by Greg van Eekhout, 'Hell Is the Absence of God' by Ted Chiang, 'Gestella' by Susan Palwick, and 'Power Punctuation!' by Cory Doctorow.  This is not to say that the other stories in the collection are not fine stories as well.  Every story in this collection is well-written and worth reading.<br />Many of the stories have a deeper goal beyond entertainment.  Chiang's story ponders spirituality and ethics.  Palwick's 'Gestella' is a sad love story between a human and a werewolf who ages at a rapid pace. Colin Greenland's 'Wings' is set in a world where angels are commonplace and humanity must reconcile itself to new truths.  <br />Truly an excellent anthology.  I look forward to a Starlight 4 and hope it's published in a timely manner!	2001-09-01
US	51097716	R13ZUMWKADF002	1892389029	948245712	Really, Really, Really, Really Weird Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What a collection!	This was my first John Shirley experience.  It has left me both eager and afraid to track down more of his work.  I'm eager to read more Shirley because he is master of stories.  He can write in any genre.  His stories are fascinating.  I like them.  I'm afraid to read more Shirley because the stories are so engrossing that I lose track of time.  That, and the fact, that many of his stories are quite disturbing.<br />As other reviewers have noted, this collection is not made up of all winners.  In any collection of nearly 40 stories, there will be some poorer stories.  While this collection does not have any bad stories, there are several short vignettes that perhaps should have been left out of this collection.  <br />Several of the stories in this collection left me reeling.  'Lot Five...' is a marvelous story that really defies description.  There are several acolytes of a cult-like leader who are attempting to wend their way through a maze of doors, hallways, and security guards to reach the guru.  I loved this story.  It was weird and horrific at the same time.  <br />Another of my favorites was '...And the Angel with Television Eyes', a story about a tele-screen actor who's been plagued with bizarre dreams.  He wakes one morning to find an iron griffin on his balcony.  The griffin tells him that he's being summoned by some sort of ethereal lords.  Before the actor can act on the summons he's kidnapped by hideous harpies and taken to a rooftop balcony where a metal man, Lord Thanatos, tells him that the griffin is attempting to trick the actor.  A large battle ensues in which the actor learns of his true identity and the large mystery behind the events of his morning.  I am excited to hear that Mr. Shirley has recently completed a novel expansion of this story, due in 2002.  <br />As the title of the collection indicates, many of the stories in this collection are very weird.  In fact, the stories are organized by their weirdness.  The first section is Really Weird Stories.  The second is Really, Really Weird Stories...and so on.  <br />Those of us who love weird fiction, and you know who you are, should pick up this collection.  It's full of great weirdness.  I should point out that many of the stories in this collection contain explicit sexual content, so if that's not your thing, stay away.  On the whole, I found this collection to be a mind-blowing trip through the works of a brilliant author, John Shirley.  Immediately after finishing this book, I jumped online and ordered several other Shirley titles.  I fully expect to enjoy them as much as I did this one.  Recommended.	2001-08-11
US	51097716	R1J5VOTBCFMZ60	038519708X	543859954	Howard Who?: Twelve Outstanding Stories of Speculative Fiction	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding Stories?  Definitely	The title does not lie.  This is a collection of 12 outstanding stories.  Each story is a tiny gem, a short 13-25 page story that makes a large impact.<br />Waldrop's stories have to be read to be believed.  He is able to turn the mundane into the spectacular.  Take 'Man Mountain Gentian' about sumo wrestlers with telekinetic powers.  Or 'Heirs of the Perisphere' about intelligent Disney robots that are mistakenly activated years after humanity mysteriously disappeared.  'Mary Margaret Road-Grader' is a fascinating story about Native American Tractor pulls.  World-Fantasy-Award winning story 'The Ugly Chickens' is about a possible rediscovery of the supposedly extinct Dodo.  'God's Hooks': a story about a fishing expedition for Leviathan and the consequences thereof.<br />There is not a bad story in this collection.  Waldrop is a towering talent in the speculative fiction scene.  Unfortunately most of his works are out-of-print.  He's written a lot of stories but it takes an effort to track them down.  Trust me, it's worth it.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-11
US	51097716	R2RETQDFGINLCJ	096522001X	25071482	The Divinity Student	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Verbal lyricism on a grand scale	If Michael Cisco's _The Divinity Student_ is remembered for one thing it will be for the magnificent way that Cisco strings his words together.  As a previous reviewer has already noted, this book is a feast for devotees of the written word.<br />I cannot claim to have fully understood every page of this novel.  It is not an easy read.  It forces you to read each and every paragraph carefully and even then you need to apply yourself to understand the words on the page.  <br />The Divinity Student is thrown out of the seminary after he is apparently struck dead by lightning.  He is brought back to life by a mysterious group of people  who gut his corpse and stuff him full of pages from a mysterious book.  He is put to work as a word-finder.  He soon learns that there is a book full of lost and possibly forbidden words; 'the Catalog'.  He is approached by a representative of an underground organization who tells him that he, The Divinity Student, has been chosen to do something or other with the Catalog.<br />The Divinity Student soon finds that the Catalog has been destroyed.  He learns of 12 deceased word-finders who were the authors of the Catalog.  He, along with his butcher, finds the corpses, drains them of their essence and begins recreating the Catalog.<br />_The Divinity Student_ is a dense story, but it is very, very fascinating.  Cisco changes scenes often which makes it difficult to follow the story.  His writing style is gorgeous.  It makes this story worth reading for the subtle nuances of the English language alone.  As I said, I did not fully understand this story.  I suspect it will benefit from a re-reading or two.  I do not understand the significance of the cats in the street.  I am perplexed by the apparently sentient cars.  Many passages in the book are made up of dream sequences, which makes it difficult to determine what is real and what is not.<br />I would love to read a definitive description of this book, to know what it's all about.  UntilI find one, I will remember this book as a masterpiece of literary wordplay.  Most of this book appears to be written in the present tense, which is strikingly different from the norm.  I look forward to finding more of Michael Cisco's writings.  Check this book out.  It's different.  It's neat.  It's good.  Recommended.	2001-08-11
US	51097716	R3TZNBVCSXR1GT	0965590119	355596788	Beluthahatchie and Other Stories	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The debut of an astonishing new talent	Andy Duncan writes brilliant stories.<br />That's all I need to say.  He puts words down on paper and they look beautiful!  This collection, from the magnificent Golden Gryphon press, collects all of Andy Duncan's early published work.  The stories are by turns, beautiful, poignant, and sometimes horrific.<br />My favorite story of the collection is 'The Executioner's Guild'.  This incredible novella is set in a small Southern town.  The town is abuzz because the Execution wagon is coming to town.  The Executioner is a young man whose job it is to perform Executions for the state.  The story becomes really interesting when the Executioner's mysterious mentor unexpectedly arrives in town and the Executioner must come to grips with the true importance of his job.  This story will leave you thinking long after you've put the book down.<br />There are other stories in this collection of equal quality: 'Liza and the Crazy Water Man', 'Fenneman's Mouth', 'Grand Guignol', 'From Alfano's Reliquary', and the title story 'Beluthahatchie', set in a suburb of Hell. <br />It's a genuinely exciting experience to stumble across a relatively new author.  If you're not familiar with Andy Duncan, you should definitely check out this explosive new author.  Duncan's stories remind me a lot of those by another Southern author, Howard Waldrop.  Whatever their similarities and differences, both are incredible authors.  Duncan's published stories since this collection have maintained his very high level of excellence.  I have every reason to believe that Andy Duncan will be a very big name in short speculative fiction.  Don't miss this collection.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-11
US	51097716	R3VVL8KCV3H6JV	0312877897	766903432	50 in 50: Fifty stories for fifty years!	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Enjoyable collection	'50 in 50' was surprisingly enjoyable.  Many stories from decades past are trite and out-of-date.  Most of the stories in Harry Harrison's new collection hold up very well.<br />There are several overarching themes in Harrison's stories.  The major theme is overpopulation.  My favorite story in the volume is about a couple who breaks the law by having a second child.  By law if you bring an unauthorized life into the world, another life must leave.  So the government hires an assassin to kill one of the parents.  This is a taut, chilling story of a man's desire to protect his family against a cold-blooded killer.  The other overpopulation stories are equally memorable.  <br />Included in this collection is the story that was the basis for the movie 'Soylent Green'.  <br />Most of the 50 stories in the collection are entertaining.  A few are dated, such as stories about interplanetary flights and space exploration, but on the whole they hold up quite well.  I was disappointed with the lack of a bibliography telling when each story was published.  The reader is left to guess at each story's publication date.  The cover art is marvelous, which, though inconsequential, made the book all-the-more enjoyable for me to read.  A solid collection.  Though there are no award-winners in here, it's a good read.	2001-08-03
US	51097716	R118NDCCKZ1ZA	187825233X	211954885	Vampire Stories of R. Chetwynd-Hayes	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable, but lacking, collection	I was expecting more from this collection.  Some of the stories in this volume are a blend of horror and comedy; a mix that I never find wholly fulfilling.  Other stories are not vampire stories, but the type of story with a metaphorical vampire.  I don't know about you but when I pick up a volume of vampire stories, I want blood-sucking fiends, not houses or plants that steal people's essence.<br />That being said, every story in this collection is enjoyable.  A few of them are even superior stories.  'Keep the Gaslight Burning' is a terrifying tale about an old lady who must always keep the gaslight in her room lit, or else...  There's another story (I can't remember the title) where two travelers stay the night in an old, creaky house, only to find the house is much more than it seems. The final story 'The Werewolf and the Vampire' is an enjoyable tale of two mixed-up kids coping with their monstrous sides and trying to live a normal life. Good stuff.  <br />On the whole, this collection is enjoyable but slight.  There is an excerpt from a novel which looked very interesting and I'm going to try to track down, but being on the wrong side of the Atlantic it will be a difficult job.  If you're a Chetwynd-Hayes completist, be sure to check this out.  Otherwise, give it a pass.  All of the stories except one can be found in other Chetwynd-Hayes collections.  The sole new story, 'The Fundamental Elemental' is bizarre and confusing.  Not worth the price of the collection.	2001-08-03
US	51097716	R3TSS98PI8H9NM	0312872380	615549012	Kushiel's Dart (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Outstanding Debut Novel	Jacqueline Carey has an outstanding fiction debut in 'Kushiel's Dart'.  Her plot is fascinating and keeps the reader involved at all times.  Her characters are real and believable with a depth that's not often seen in fantasy novels.  <br />Her world is a fascinating one.  At first it appears to be a world where sensuality rules all.  Youngsters are trained in sensual arts to the exclusion of much else (except for the protagonist).  Such a striking contrast to our world!  Yet as the novel progresses the main character, Phedre, is reviled by many for being a whore.  The two views are so different that I found it difficult to believe in Carey's fictional society.  But that was a minor quibble and certainly did not detract from my overall enjoyment of the novel.  <br />Another thing I noticed while reading the book was its familiarity.  At various times 'Kushiel's Dart' read like novels by Lynn Flewelling, George R.R. Martin, Bernard Cornwell, &amp; Anne Bishop.  When Phedre lives among the barbarians it read much like Bernard Cornwell's Warlord Chronicles.  When Phedre was dabbling in political intrigue it reminded me of George R.R. Martin's epic 'Fire and Ice' series.  Delauney's tutelage of Phedre was very similar to Flewelling's 'Nightrunner' books.<br />Taken as a whole this is a successful novel.  There are no flat moments.  As I mentioned earlier, both the plot and characters are fascinating and believable. Most refreshingly, this is a stand-alone novel.  There are hints of a future novel, but this is unlike the dozens of interminable never-ending series.  This will most assuredly be one of the best fantasy debuts of 2001.  Recommended.	2001-08-03
US	51097716	R20O8799WOZVAI	0061052604	173162111	Hammerfall (Gene Wars)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Slow but satisfying SF	'Hammerfall' is a tremendously rewarding novel.  I couldn't wait to get home from work so I could pick it up again.  The main strengths of this novel are Ms. Cherryh's reknowned world-building skills and her believable characters...which is not to say it lacks a compelling plot.<br />The world of 'Hammerfall' is fascinating in its complexity.  Ms. Cherryh has created a wonderful desert world peopled with God-like rulers and nomadic desert tribes.  The camel-like beasts of burden are fascinating.  The characters are richly imagined and deftly drawn.  We, the readers, completely understand the main character's motivations and are able to sympathize with the tough decisions he has to make.  <br />The plot is the weakest part of the novel.  Essentially, the book is made up of three trips across a wide desert.  Cherryh spices it up with the 'mad' visions sent to special characters and the constant threat of danger from the skies, but, as mentioned earlier, the magnificent tapestry of her fictional world make the book interesting reading even with a less-than-compelling plot.<br />Though the plot is slow, I believe that when this book is viewed as part of the overall series (of which there is at least one more book to come), it will fall neatly into place as the first volume of an exceptional and very worthwhile series.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-25
US	51097716	R1B20AP28YLIR1	0312879237	680313652	Necroscope: Avengers (Necroscope: E-Branch Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent conclusion to a fabulous saga	&quot;Necroscope: Avengers&quot; is a fine conclusion to Brian Lumley's magnificent Necroscope series. In &quot;Avengers&quot; (the best Necroscope novel since &quot;Bloodwars&quot;), Lumley finishes the tale he started in &quot;Invaders&quot; and &quot;Defilers,&quot; wrapping up the stories of the mighty Wamphyri, Lord Nephran Malinari, Lady Vavara, and Lord Szwart.<br />In &quot;Avengers&quot; we get all of the blood and gore we've come to expect and love from Lumley. His vampires are the meanest and most horrifying I've come across in fiction. Lumley's biggest weakness (and it's not much of one) has always been in his characters. His background characters are frequently merely cardboard cutouts that play off the Wamphyri vampire lords, and those in &quot;Avengers&quot; are no different. But the main characters in &quot;Avengers&quot; (Ben Trask &amp; Jake Cutter) start to become more fully formed as they struggle with their humanity in the fight to vanquish the Wamphyri.<br />This book, as do the previous two in the E-Branch trilogy, focuses on the E-Branch members and not so much on the vampires. While this is initially disconcerting to those of us who loved the &quot;Vampire World&quot; trilogy, after a few chapters readers will find themselves enthralled in E-Branch's efforts to save the world. <br />This book had a vitality that was missing in both &quot;Invaders&quot; and &quot;Defilers.&quot; Lumley put everything he had into his final Necroscope novel and it turned out very satisfying indeed! In the end, we're treated to another one of Lumley's explosive finales. And if everything wrapped up a little too neatly, who cares! It certainly didn't affect my enjoyment of the novel. <br />It felt good to be reading another Necroscope novel. It felt like I was reacquainting myself with an old friend. I am saddened to hear that this is Brian Lumley's final Necroscope novel, but as a devoted Lumley fan I eagerly look forward to his future efforts. Recommended.	2001-07-25
US	51097716	R2TW5VLM3EZHU6	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A charming fantasy for young and old alike	'Artemis Fowl' shares much in common with Rowling's Harry Potter books.  They both take place in a universe much like our own, but with a dash of magic thrown in.<br />Both books are aimed at a younger audience but have hints of darkness in them.  In the Harry Potter books, Harry and the gang are on the lookout for evil sorcerors and magical creatures.  In '...Fowl' the main character is a deceptive and evil plotter.  Hardly a role model.<br />But '..Fowl' is an enjoyable book.  I suspect that, like the Harry Potter books, it will coerce youngsters who are non-readers into reading.  It has the requisite amounts of fantastic creatures and excitement that should keep readers up well past their bedtimes.<br />However, my praise isn't wholehearted.  One of the major plot points of the book is the kidnap of a female police officer.  Another significant scene involves flatulence.  There's a lot of violence in the book.  No characters are killed, but there are several scenes with hitting.  Most intriguingly, and in one of my favorite lines, there's a scene where a character says 'Moriarty, Holmes, they both like the same with the flesh scorched off their skulls'.  Now I like this kind of humor, but I question whether it's appropriate in a book aimed at children.<br />'Artemis Fowl' is a charming engaging fantasy that will delight readers and is a relatively quick read (particularly in comparison to the huge Harry Potter tomes).  I look forward to the alluded-to sequels.	2001-07-19
US	51097716	R3NO86VN6E3XDU	1892284901	181116216	Night Moves and Other Stories	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A significant collection	Tim Powers is most well-known for his fantastic novels ranging from subjects as diverse as Blackbeard the pirate to ghosts haunting Los Angeles.  Here, the marvelous and indispensable Subterranean Press collects all six of Powers' short works of fiction.<br />All of the pieces in this collection are exceptional.  Powers is an accomplished fantasist.  Two of the stories are collaborations with fellow purveyor of weird fiction, James Blaylock.  ....<br />My favorite stories in this collection are 'Where They Are Hid' and 'The Way Down the Hill'.  'The Way Down the Hill' is a fascinating look at an enclave of immortal beings.  This is a story we've seen before in science fiction.  It concerns the ethics of being an immortal being and their relationship with humanity.  What really interests me in the story is Powers' unique take on the manner of the enclave's immortality.  I won't say more for fear of giving the story away.<br />'Where They are Hid' is a fabulous story.  Powers tells us that Philip K. Dick enjoyed reading it before he passed away, which is particularly noteworthy since the story deals with all the normal Dickian tropes; reality, identity and hallucinations.  I'm afraid the story is too complex to give a concise description of it here.  Suffice it say that it blew my mind.<br />I recommend this slim collection to all Powers' fans.  It's worth buying for the excellent stories and the extras.  The introduction by James Blaylock relates a hilarious story about an encounter between Powers and 50 or 60 dwarfs.  The collection also contains informative notes on each story (including a humorous Phil Dick anecdote) and a definitive Powers bibliography.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-19
US	51097716	RPSY7BRITVDS1	1930846002	715225149	Claremont Tales	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An outstanding collection from a (relatively) obscure author	I'll say this up front.  Previous to this collection, I'd never heard of Richard Lupoff.  This can be attributed to many factors, mainly that I've only been paying attention to the science fiction and fantasy genres for the last few years.  But also is the fact that Richard Lupoff is an unjustly neglected talent.<br />Lupoff belongs to an earlier generation of writing.  He was featured in Harlan Ellison's celebrated 'Dangerous Visions' series.  He was an accomplished talent.  But somehow he became a neglected author.<br />I love Golden Gryphon press.  They bring serious collections to light by authors that otherwise may be forgotten or undiscovered.  In recent memory I've discovered authors, Richard Paul Russo, Andy Duncan, Neal Barrett, and Tony Daniel through Golden Gryphon press.  Now I can add Richard Lupoff to the list.<br />Lupoff's stories don't stay in any one genre or style.  His incredible versatility means that this is a collection that can appeal to many different readers.  Hard-SF readers will enjoy 'Black Mist' and 'The Child's Story'.  Mystery readers will love the 'The Second Day' and it's Holmes-like investigator.  Lovecraft aficionados will find pleasure in 'Discovery in the Ghooric Zone' and 'Documents in the Case of Elizabeth Akeley', both of which are superb examples of the late master's style.  Fantasy fans will love the fantastic universe changing action in 'At Vega's Taqueria' or the Walter Mittyesque 'Mr. Tindle'.  <br />As a previous reviewer noted, only a handful of those stories were published in prominent genre publications.  Unlike the reviewer I see this as a good thing.  I see it as hope that a prolific author such as Lupoff will be able to find his audience through unknown means.  (Also this collection is one of several Lupoff has released in recent years and collects several of his stories from the less-traveled mediums.  His stories from the main magazines were collected years earlier).<br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading this collection and discovering yet another talented author who has, until now, escaped my attention.  I look forward to reading more of his works, but as another reviewer noted, they're very difficult to come by.  Check out Lupoff (and for that matter all of the Golden Gryphon releases.  They're fabulous!).  You won't be sorry.	2001-07-10
US	51097716	R3CJTXMJZAKOEI	1557100357	658118533	The Wine Dark Sea	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Dazzling collection of the spooky and bizarre	'The Wine Dark Sea' is a fabulous collection by an unjustly neglected author.  Robert Aickman writes stories unparalleled by any other writer.  It's not hyperbole to call him the finest spooky story writer of the 20th century.  <br />This particular collection, published several years after Aickman's death, gathers together several of his later stories.  My favorite story is the eerie 'The Wine-Dark Sea' which tells the tale of a vacationer in Greece who, against the admonishments of his Greek hosts, takes a boat out to a deserted island.  Once there he finds three exotic women who claim to be sorceresses.  What follows is a magnificent story of magic, love, and betrayal.  Quite simply one of the finest novellas I've ever read.<br />The rest of the stories in the collection are all fine reading, but none approaches the level of the title story.  Of particular note is 'The Trains', the creepy story of two girls bumming through Europe who stumble across a mansion with a mysterious past.  <br />As a previous reviewer noted, Aickman's stories aren't easy to read.  You get the most out of an Aickman story if you go slowly, read every word, and occasionally re-read paragraphs.  This method, combined with his lengthy stories, means that one story can take you up to an hour to read.  It's a lengthy process, but the stories are worth it. <br />I'm only exaggerating a little when I say that it's a tragedy Aickman's stories are out-of-print.  There was a very ..., complete collection released in the UK in 2000, but that doesn't help us Americans!	2001-07-10
US	51097716	R10C1LQAL012VB	0684151324	257483037	Cold hand in mine: Strange stories	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Stunning collection of supernatural fiction	I'm currently trying to read my way through the complete Aickman canon.  I'm attacking this project with relish.  There is no finer writer of a supernatural story than Robert Aickman.  He had the literary skills of one of the world's finest writers, and his ability to create spooky and bizarre stories was unparalleled.  He is a great author, and it's a shame that his books are not readily available.<br />This collection is perhaps Aickman's finest.  The stories in here are of a consistently brilliant quality.  The highlight is the World Fantasy Award-winning novella 'Pages from a Young Girl's Diary'.  This story recounts the tale of a repressed young girl who falls in with a vampire.  This is Aickman's only vampire tale.  He tended toward more intellectual bogeyman, but in this story he shows the world how a vampire story should be written.  It is, without question, the finest vampire tale I've ever read.  Yes, better than Anne Rice, better than Lumley, better than Stoker, Simon Clark, and on and on.  Aickman's literary abilities shine in this story.  <br />Other excellent pieces include 'The Swords' and 'The Clock Watcher'.  'The Clock Watcher' is a creepy tale of a woman with an affinity for clocks.  Her husband isn't sure what to make of her obsession and her strange link to clocks of any kind.  This story kept me entranced and bedazzled until the end.  'The Swords' is a marvelous novella.  It says something about a collection if there's a story of this caliber that ISN'T the best story in the book.  'The Swords' tells the story of a bizarre carnival sideshow with a girl and a pile of swords.  I won't tell any more for fear of giving too much away.  'The Swords' is the lead-off story in the collection and it sets the tone.  Fabulous.<br />I can't recommend Robert Aickman highly enough.  I'm taking it upon myself as a one-man crusade to spread his name widely.  I've only recently discovered the man and I've been ensorceled by his amazing talent.  He writes with the ease and flair that's normally found in writers from the 19th century.  It's often jarring to find Aickman characters in automobiles or airplanes.  His stories, for the most part, could just as easily be set in the 1870s as the 1970s.  Aickman is my literary find of the year.  Let him be yours.	2001-07-10
US	51097716	RI2QYGS1DAV2P	193108100X	376082409	Zeppelins West	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Bizarre, wacky, and a bit disappointing.	There are many Joe Lansdale's.<br />There is the award-winning mystery author Lansdale.  There is the award-winning horror author Lansdale.  There is the western author Lansdale (award-winning?).  And there is the simply wacky author Lansdale. 'Zeppelins West' is written by the latter Lansdale.<br />'Zeppelins West' is difficult to categorize.  So much happens throughout the course of the novel.  At its core it's an adventure story.  But it also contains parts of each different incarnation of Lansdale.  There are horrific elements, such as when Dr. Momo's half-human half-animal creations decide to feast on each other.  There are humorous moments such as when Frankenstein's monster (who has chosen the name 'Bert') falls in love with the Tin Man of Oz fame.  <br />No matter how you classify this book, it's a fascinating read.  Lansdale has thrown together dozens of historical and fictional personages, from Annie Oakley &amp; Wild Bill Hickok, to thinly guised versions of Captain Nemo &amp; Dr. Moreau.  My favorite character is Ned the Seal, Captain Bemo's intelligent companion with a passion for Ned Buntline's pulp novels.<br />Yet, at the end of the novel I felt unfulfilled.  The plot was solid.  The characters were fascinating.  Mark Nelson's illustrations were great.  For whatever reason this novel didn't 'do it' for me.  <br />There's only one Lansdale.  He's the wackiest, most bizarre writer in America.  Each new Lansdale novel is a treat.  Don't miss this one.  Even though it doesn't make my Best-of-Lansdale list, it very well could top yours.	2001-07-09
US	51097716	R231D77FWTRY4V	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Exciting suspense in old London!	David Liss has sprung fully-formed onto the mystery scene with his brilliant 'A Conspiracy of Paper'.  The book flows as though it were written by a veteran, yet this is his very first novel.  I'm not exaggerating when I call it one of the finest books that I've read this year.  It's no surprise that 'A Conspiracy of Paper' won one of the most prestigious mystery awards, the Edgar, for the Best Debut Novel of 2000.  <br />We as readers are treated to a look at the seamy underbelly of London.  Nefarious criminal mastermind Jonathan Wild plots and schemes to gain power and riches.  Our hero, ex-boxer Benjamin Weaver, the Lion of Judah, matches wits with Wild when he suspects that Wild is behind the suspicious death of his father.  <br />Liss proves himself to be quite adept at conveying the imagery of old London.  We see the luxury and debauchery of the wealthy and the filth of the lower classes.  Fans of Caleb Carr's 'The Alienist' or Conan Doyle's Holmes stories will enjoy this novel.<br />'A Conspiracy of Paper' is a splendid book.  It's an exciting read that will appeal to both veteran mystery readers and newcomers to the genre.  Liss's writing style may be too sophisticated for younger readers, as he does a fabulous job of reproducing the feel of centuries-old London.  In an addendum to the novel Liss writes that he did not use historically accurate dialogue because it would prove too unwieldy for modern readers to read.  He gives us an example...and he's right!  <br />If you enjoy a well-plotted, well-paced, exciting book, don't miss 'A Conspiracy of Paper'.	2001-07-09
US	51097716	R3DHT2DIW5AQAM	189046404X	20851688	Punktown	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Simply Astounding	I'm sure we all know the feeling; the one you get when you discover a new author.  You're reading a book with no expectations and find something brilliant beyond your wildest imaginings.  You get so excited.  You want to share it with everyone.  You feel like running down the street and buying copies for everyone you meet (or maybe that's just me).  Jeffrey Thomas is one of those authors.   Punktown is an astounding, fabulous, awesome work of art.  The collected stories are set in Thomas's fictional city of Paxton, where anything can and does happen.  Thomas has given himself a world with no boundaries.  He stretches his imagination farther and farther with each story.  He made me shiver with revulsion at the title story and laugh out loud in subsequent ones.  If ever there was an author with no limits, Thomas is he.<br />If I were a wealthier man I would buy a copy of this collection for every member of my family and my closest friends.  I would donate copies to every library within driving distance.  Simply put, Punktown is brilliant.  It deserves to be widely read and appreciated for the masterpiece it is.  Hyperbole?  Perhaps.  But for the relatively low price, you WILL get your money's worth.  Jeffrey Thomas is an author I'll be watching for a long long time.	2001-04-23
US	51097716	R5IN5DECU3DBH	031287054X	31473389	The Miocene Arrow	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Excellent Adventure	'The Miocene Arrow' is the next step in what should be a burgeoning career for Australian Sean McMullen.  McMullen is relatively new to U.S. audiences, this being only his third U.S.-published novel.  Each of his books have been winners with his previous effort, 'Souls in the Great Machine' garnering a nomination for one of science fiction's most prestigious awards.  'The Miocene Arrow' is a loose sequel to 'Souls..'  It takes place several years in the future set in a separate locale.<br />In 'Souls..' we're introduced to a fascinating future where technology has been effectively eliminated and humanity's ranks have been culled by The Call, a mysterious emanation that compels all in its range to march mindlessly into the sea.  Thousands of years earlier, scientists discovered that birds were immune to the call and experimented with combining avian and human DNA.  The resulting hybrids call themselves 'aviads' and are uneffected by The Call.<br />Now the aviads have moved from their native Australia to the U.S. where they're hoping to steal the North American flying technology and use it to further their goal of eliminating all humans.<br />'The Miocene Arrow' is a tremendously fun read.  McMullen presents readers with equal doses of fun technology, exciting battle scenes and twisted love quadrangles.  My only complaint with this novel is the large cast of characters.  Many characters have such bland names that it's difficult to remember which character is involved in which plotline.  I found myself flipping for a non-existent character guide several times.  Other than that, 'The Miocene Arrow' is a fantastic book.  Hands down, my favorite SF novel of 2000 (so far).  Highly recommended.	2001-04-19
US	51097716	RT4HOR350EY6Z	0380974894	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A great start to a new series	Sean Russell has garnered critical acclaim for earlier works.  now with 'The One Kingdom' he's beginning to show signs of winning the heart's of readers everywhere.  'The One Kingdom' inhabits the middle ground between historical fiction and traditional epic fantas, much as George R.R. Martin's phenomenal 'Song of Fire and Ice' series does.<br />'The One Kingdom' begins in the Vale, a cloistered community that segregates itself from the eternal feud between the Wills' and the Rennes'.  Three young Valemen decide to leave the Vale and sell artifacts that they've found.  They quickly encounter Alaan, a travelling rogue, who's being chased by armed men in black livery.   Alaan appears to have preternatural skills and helps the Valemen elude their pursuers.<br />This only begins the story.  The Vaelmen leave and fall into the middle of political intrigue.  The Rennes' new counselor, Lord Eremon, looks suspiciously like Sir Haffyd, a knight from decades past.  Alaan, the skilled rogue, is accompanied by the whist, a bird that precedes death.<br />Just like Martin's series, 'The One Kingdom' doesn't delve deeply into fantasy.  The main story is the clash between the two families and their treacherous plots for dominance.  There are magical elements, such as the mystical netherworld where Alaan and Eremor travel, the question of Alaan's very existence, and the mysterious potion that, when consumed, causes the windpipe to contract upon telling falsehoods.<br />This is a fine book, the first I've read by Russell.  I look forward to his future tales set in 'The Swans' War'.  In the meantime I'll be delving into his previous novels.  I hope they're as good as this one.  Recommended.	2001-03-24
US	51097716	RP7191DRINZRH	0380976528	535649961	Declare: A Novel	Books	5	52	52	N	N	A fascinating hypothesis	&quot;Declare&quot; is a daring blend of spy and fantastorical genres.  Tim Powers takes his familiar brand of historical mysticism and inserts it into Cold War European politics.  In his afterward to the novel, Powers outlines the genesis of &quot;Declare&quot;.  He studied the biographies of Russian spy Kim Philby and the British agent commonly known as Lawrence of Arabia.  Powers found unexplained time periods and unusual occurences.  He filled in the gaps with pieces of his fictional story, all of which resulted in a fascinating and very well-written story.<br />The story tracks a fictional Englishman, born with the gift for bizarre dreams.  British secret service drafts him as a child and not many years later places him into service as a secret agent.  What follows is a powerful tale that jumps over various time periods and locales, filled with Russian spies, Nazi plots and all-powerful djinn.<br />As a devotee of both fantastic fiction and spy thrillesr I was treated to a masterpiece of bothe genres.  The political plotting kept me on the edge of my chair.  The demonic djinn left me enthralled.  I particularly enjoyed the scenes of the assault on the djinn's habitat on Mount Ararat.  Very compelling reading.<br />A word of warning however.  I've spoken with several diehard Tim Powers fans who feel that is not one of his stronger works.  I disagree with their opinions on early Powers novels as well as this one.  If you're a big fan of his &quot;On Stranger Tides&quot; and &quot;The Stress of Her Regard&quot; you may be disappointed by &quot;Declare&quot;.  But as those same Powers aficionados said, even lesser Powers is great reading.  I highly recommend &quot;Declare&quot;.	2001-03-24
US	51097716	R3BPX6761WHG86	1587670003	749306061	Traveling Vampire Show	Books	4	42	49	N	N	Wicked Good Fun	Laymon's latest, and possibly final, book was my first Richard Laymon novel.  I loved it.  <br />At its core, 'The Traveling Vampire Show' is a coming-of-age novel.  It follows three teenagers, protagonist Dwight, abused teenage girl Slim, and the annoying, adolescent Rusty.  Dwight, Slim, and Rusty set a goal of seeing the Traveling Vampire Show when it comes to town.  Although the entirety of the book takes place over one day, the three teenagers face many adversities that they must overcome. By the end of the novel the protagonist is considerably older, wiser, and much more experienced in life than he was at the beginning.<br />I was disappointed when I started this book when I realized that it was not going to have a considerable vampire presence.  But after I started reading I was drawn into the characters.  Laymon's writing fascinated me, so much so that I read 400 pages in one sitting.  I could not put the book down.  Mesmerizing.<br />By the time the final climactic scene rolled around, I knew that I had to finish the book, no matter how late it was (1:00 AM).  The final scene makes it all worthwhile, wrapping up the entire novel with great closure.  Laymon writes an elegant book.  His characters learn and grow (something that all too often is lost in modern literature).  The characters are very real and lifelike.  This was one I was sad to put down.<br />This isn't a typical horror novel.  This is a novel.  I was touched by the characters.  I was elated by their discoveries and dismayed by heartache.  My words can't do justice to this novel.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-28
US	51097716	RXGG4O7E6R31W	034540856X	685150972	The Collapsium	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Fun!	I need to preface this review by stating that I have no scientific background.  I've never studied physics and have little to no interest in hard science fiction.  That being said, I really enjoyed this book.<br />My lack of scientific background helped me to enjoy this book much more than previous reviewers did.  Many of the previous reviewers pointed out the scientific impossiblities (or implausibilities).  My scientific ignorance allowed me to sit back and enjoy the ride.  And a great ride it is.  'The Collapsium' is a great ride, much like the previous reviewer noted, in the tradition of the old SF pulps.  <br />The book is exciting, well-written with compelling characters.  I enjoyed the main character's brilliance and his reclusive nature.  Also the name, Bruno de Towaji, is tremendously fun to roll around in the mind.  McCarthy seems to have a knack for creating interesting character names.<br />I enjoyed everything about this book.  If you're like me with little to no scientific background, you'll probably enjoy this one.  If you are a quantum physicist who simply cannot get past scientific irregularities, you may want to stay away.	2001-02-28
US	51097716	R3H7GDXPRSJW1W	0375503838	647360922	The Very Persistent Gappers of Frip	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent Fun	George Saunders, master of the short story, turns out another brilliant one.  The accompanying illustrations by Lane Smith aren't to my taste.  They resemble the claymation from 'Nightmare Before Christmas'.  The real jewel here is the story.<br />The story is simple, yet fabulous.  Gappers are small orange furry creatures with dozens of eyes.  Their main ambition is to climb onto goats and squeal with joy.  The people of Frip do not like gappers.  <br />Great story.  This is a book you can read with your children.  There's nothing objectionable or adult in the book, but Saunders prose is not as simple and concise as most children's books.  He writes complicated, convoluted sentences.  I love it.  He has been called the successor to Phil Dick's outrageous literary legacy.  I'm not sure I agree with that, but '..Gappers of Frip' reads just like one of Dick's best.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-28
US	51097716	R38GU1R093BL6Y	0152022597	729191984	Nobody's Son	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent fantasy	At first glance, 'Nobody's Son' appears to be a typical young adult fantasy; one of those where the young nobody overcomes tremendous odds and becomes prominent.  But it turns out to be so much more.  <br />Our hero braves the evil enchanted forest where time exists for only one day.  It has been foretold that once a man enters the forest, he must leave by midnight or he is trapped inside for eternity.  The only way to lift the curse is to remove the evil dagger from the forest.  Our hero overcomes innumerable odds and removes the dagger.  He returns to the king's castle and demands his reward, the king's youngest daughter and a dukedom.<br />Stewart's story goes into much more depth than this seemingly basic plot.  His characters are unforgettable.  They linger in the mind days after finishing the book.  Their relationships with each other are fascinating; particularly that between the young princess and her affianced.  <br />This is a compelling story that will entertain.  It goes beyond the surface-thin plots we see all too often in fantasy today.  The story has depth and resonance.  Magic Carpet Books is to be applauded for bringing this fantastic story back into print.  It's a travesty that it had never before been printed in America.  Sean Stewart is gradually gaining prominence in the literary (not just fantasy) community.  He keeps improving with each book.  You owe it to yourself to become familiar with this relatively new and powerful author.  Recommended.	2001-02-28
US	51097716	R2IOPPFJ3638ZY	0151004498	30962648	The Graveyard Game	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Another Good Company Novel	Kage Baker churns out another of her fantastic novels starring a group of immortal time-traveling cyborgs.  'The Graveyard Game' picks up where 'Mendoza in Hollywood' left off.  Mendoza, having violated Company directives, is exiled to Back Way Back, many many thousands of years in the past.  'The Graveyard Game' relates the quest of two cyborgs, Facilitator Joseph (a main character from Books 1 &amp; 2) and Literature Specialist Lewis, to find Mendoza and discover the ugly truth behind The Company's secrets.<br />Secrets like, what happened to the prehistoric Enforcers?  What lies behind the mysterious date of 2355?  And what happens to good cyborgs gone bad?<br />I love Baker's Company novels.  They're well-written and easy to read.  Baker creates enjoyable characters that stay within their parameters.  They don't veer off into directions that leave the reader shrugging shoulders in exasperation.  I enjoy the fact that Baker incorporates Cyborg characters from her other novels and short stories.  It's fun to see how the various characters mature and grow over the centuries (especially watching Latif grow from a child to a cyborg).<br />Baker's novels are light easy reading.  They won't challenge you, but they will intrigue you and more than likely keep you up past your bedtime.  Recommended.	2001-02-28
US	51097716	RJX2PNOKQO6WD	0345421450	46634992	Heroes Die	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Exciting and fun	I'd like to briefly add my praise to the numerous reviews already posted here.  'Heroes Die' is an endlessly exhilarating read.  I was enthralled from page 1 to the back cover.  Stover's future universe is fascinating in its complexity and depth.  While giving us an exciting hack-and-slash adventure, Stover subtly weaves together a social commentary on our culture's decadence.<br />I don't want to give the wrong impression.  This isn't a mindless killing book.  The main character, Caine, is motivated in his quest to save his estranged wife.  Through the course of the novel we see Caine grow into a mature and rational man.  I recommend this novel to all fantasy readers.	2001-01-14
US	51097716	R16BE2Z0M18UX3	0312855451	376319675	The Last Hot Time	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent	John M. Ford's latest is another in a string of excellent novels by an author who doesn't receive the praise and recognition he deserves.  Ford's novels are all fabulously inventive.  'The Last Hot Time' is no different.<br />This novel is about a young man in an alternate world where Faerie exists.  Danny Holman is 'called' to Faery where he becomes Doc Hallownight, the personal physician to a mysterious gangster-type figure.  <br />What I love most about this book are Ford's fascinating characters.  He's created a relatively large ensemble cast, all of whom receive roughly equal time sharing the spotlight with Doc.  The forlorn newspaper reporter.  The babbling beauty with a voice to die for.  The Elf assassin.  Ford's menagerie is endlessly inventive and interesting.  I was sorry to see this novel end after only 200 pages.<br />I highly recommend this novel.  One of my favorites from 2000.	2001-01-14
US	51097716	R3T7BLSZQJ7ITW	0688112730	101552875	The Glory of Their Times : The Story of Baseball Told By the Men Who Played It	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Simply Fantastic	I'll be blunt.  This is the single greatest baseball book I've ever read.  I wouldn't be surprised if it were the best baseball book ever written.  This book conveys the tone of baseball's early days.  The players tell their stories in their own voice, oft-times a considerably different manner of speaking than we use currently.  <br />I greatly enjoyed the slang words the old ballplayers used.  They taunted rookies by calling them 'bushers'.  One player warned another (speaking of Nap Lajoie) 'Watch out for the Frenchman.'  Priceless!<br />Outside of the words, the stories themselves paint a glorious picture of baseball at the beginning of the century.  The lesser ballplayers, the Hans Loberts and Chief Meyers', give their impression of the all-time greats; Wagner, Lajoie, Mathewson, Cobb, Jophnson, Bender, Waddell, and Shoeless Joe.  Much of what we now know about these legends came directly from the recollections in this book.  This is a baseball treasure and belongs in every serious fan's library.	2000-12-19
US	51097716	R1L2ZWBGYPC26	0441007309	866601457	Dark Sleeper: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fabulous..a future classic	Jeffrey Barlough's 'Dark Sleeper' is a masterpiece.  Barlough weaves his prose delicately and powerfully.  This is a book that doesn't turn up often anymore.  Barlough's words are reminiscent of the greatest authors from decades past; Melville, Dickens, Conan Doyle.  <br />The coastal town of Salthead is disturbed when the ghost of a deceased sailor begins to haunt its citizens.  Who are these diffident newcomers to Salthead, Mr. Hunter and Mr. Hilltop?  Will evil Josiah Tusk ruin the local mammoth-transport trade?  I won't say more for fear of giving it all away.<br />Words cannot express the depth and soul of 'Dark Sleeper'.  The characters are lively and real.  The setting is gorgeous.  Even though the sun is shining outside, while I read this book I feel as though I'm wreathed in fog.  Barlough's writing brings to mind that of Tim Powers (who, not coincidentally, has written a cover blurb).  I wouldn't be surprised if in future generations, this book is pointed to as a classic of the genre.  Regardless of others' opinions, 'Dark Sleeper' is a book that I will recommend to friends and foes alike.  It's made my very, very short list of books that I must have on my bookshelf.  I give it my very highest recommendation.	2000-12-18
US	51097716	R2WKZUQR2X45XM	0553581953	928146749	The Prophecy Machine	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Strikingly Original	'The Prophecy Machine' is the answer to the homogeneity so many are decrying in the fantasy genre: an original piece of work.  Rather than being yet another Tolkien knock-off, The Prophecy Machine defies description.  The characters are bizarre.  The setting is absurd.  And the prose is delicious.  In short, another Neal Barrett novel.<br />The story isn't the best.  In fact it may leave you feeling a little off-kilter, saying to yourself, 'What exactly happened there?', but in the end it's an enjoyable, relaxing, fast-paced read.  This one is worth reading solely for the pleasure of encountering Bizarre's twisted universe.  Even though it lacks the Importance of other novels, I place this one near the top of my favorite fantasy books of 2000.  I eagerly await the promised sequel.	2000-12-03
US	51097716	R2R6422HY5JTE7	0380792966	176034522	Child of the River:: The First Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amazing, a true epic	'Child of the River' is a great novel.<br />Paul McAuley has created an amazing universe, one where the tropes of fantasy fiction interact with all of the gizmos and gadgets of the hardest SF.  The protagonist, Yama, discovers that he's not like the others..that on a world that contains 500 different species, there's no one else like him.  So Yama wants to discover who he is and where he came from...and why he's able to command machines.<br />McAuley is a master wordsmith.  The words meld together and form an incredible tapestry.  The reader feels as though he's present in McAuley's universe.  And really, any book that contains men fencing with chainsaws has to be worth reading.  I couldn't put the book down.  McAuley has taken a place on my Must-Read list.  Highly recommended.	2000-12-03
US	51097716	R15YWGQ4B49XGG	0380731800	701049138	Sky Coyote (A Novel of the Company, Book 2)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Laugh-Out-Loud, Fall-on-the-Ground Funny!	'Sky Coyote' is my favorite Kage Baker novel...so far.  It features Baker's wonderful time-traveling, immortal cyborgs (which makes her work worth reading solely for the sheer originality).  Joseph, a cyborg facilitator, has the job of preserving the culture of an Indian tribe on the coast of California.  Joseph's mission is to evacuate the tribe away from their present location, where only death awaits them, to one of Dr. Zeus's safety zones.  But first he must gain their trust...and so he is surgically altered to resemble Coyote, the trickster god from native american religious teachings.  It only gets funnier from there.<br />The strength of this novel lies in Joseph's interaction with the Indian tribe.  Rather than portray the locals as indigenous and backwards, Baker represents them much as we are today.  They worry that if they go off to Heaven with Sky Coyote, how will they make money?  <br />Any description of the plot can't do this book justice.  This is a masterful comic novel on the scale of Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett, or P.G. Wodehouse.  One of the funniest books I've ever read.  Highly recommended.	2000-12-03
US	51097716	R2GZUMTEF3PQX2	1583940162	538874342	Tales of Old Earth	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	The body of work of a true Master	Michael Swanwick's latest collection 'Tales of Old Earth' is masterful.  The collection of stories ranges from Hard SF to the so-called Hard Fantasy (don't ask me to explain it).  There are Hugo and World Fantasy Award Winners and numerous stories that were nominated for major awards.<br />It's unfortunate that Michael Swanwick isn't widely-recognized as the writer that he is.  His work is consistently head-and-shoulders above the average work being turned out in the genre.  But he writes predominantly short fiction, and short fiction never has, and never will be, recognized by the masses.<br />This is one of the best story collections I've ever read.  There isn't a 'dog' in the bunch.  Every story jumps out at the reader with its vibrancy.  Michael Swanwick is a wordsmith of unparalleled talent.  I have no doubt that he's the best writer of the current generation.  I highly recommend this collection.	2000-12-03
US	51097716	R1U0A6VGDMIXAD	031226416X	24536187	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror : Thirteenth Annual Collection	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fabulous Anthology	What a beautiful, fabulous anthology.  Ellen Datlow and Terri Windling have turned out another of their elegant and amazing collections.<br />This anthology starts off fast with another of Ursula Le Guin's Earthsea stories, but it's the second one, Ian MacLeod's 'The Chop Girl' that starts the anthology off with a bang.  MacLeod's story is creepy, eerie, spooky, and thoroughly delightful.  The anthology never loses steam.  Nearly every story is wonderful.<br />Excellent stories by Charles de Lint, Gemma Files, Jeffrey Ford (be sure to check out his books here on Amazon.  They're fabulous!), Tim Lebbon, Steven Millhauser, Paul McAuley, Michael Marshall Smith, Kim Newman, and on and on.<br />What makes this anthology so special is the breadth of sources that Datlow and Windling draw from.  They have a few stories from the usual suspects, F&amp;SF, Realms of Fantasy, Asimov's and so on, but the amount of stories, really good stories, that they grab from tiny obscure publications that probably less than 3,000 people read is astounding.  In my mind this makes this series of anthologies infinitely more valuable than their SF counterparts.<br />I highly recommend this volume.	2000-10-21
US	51097716	R3233N08KIC2QO	0380802090	78863271	Hunted (League of Peoples, Bk. 4)	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Gardner's best yet	No surprises here, James Alan Gardner turns out another fine novel.  It's a mystery to me why this author hasn't been published in hardcover yet.  His novels are consistently head and shoulders above the majority of the SF drek that's published, yet his books continue to languish as first-run paperbacks.<br />'Hunted' is an excellent addition to Gardner's Future Earth storyline.  The story is crisp and exciting from page 1 to the back cover.  I have not yet been disappointed by a Gardner book.  If you haven't read this (relatively) new author yet, don't waste another minute.  It's difficult to judge an author based on four books, but for my money James Alan Gardner is one of the most consistently entertaining authors in SF today.	2000-10-17
US	51097716	RWTM4J5CG7CGP	0380786230	229325528	Black Heart, Ivory Bones	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing and interesting	Datlow and Windling's latest, and apparently final, fairy tale anthology is a keeper.  The authors take well-known fairy tales and slightly twist or bend the specific's, leading to a different take on the classics.  There are no outright fantastic stories in the anthology, but neither are there any stinkers.<br />Original highlights include: Greg Costikyan's 'And Still She Sleeps', wherein Sleeping Beauty is discoverd at an archaeological dig in England; Howard Waldrop's melding of cyberpunk and fairy tale, 'Our Mortal Span', in which a robot in a fairy tale amusement park attains sentience and rebels; and Michael Cadnum's story, a retelling of Goldilock's. In Cadnum's story, the bears in a normal village begin speaking and behaving pleasantly.  One girl doesn't like it and sets out for revenge.<br />The lone reprint in this anthology is Charles de Lint's 'My Life as a Bird'.  It's typically de Lint, meaning that it's set in his fictional Newford and features a blending between a contemporary cosmopolitan city and faery.  This story is a great addition to this anthology because de Lint's short stories are often published in small publications and so aren't widely available.  This story is a good one and should be read by as widely an audience as possible.<br />On the whole this anthology is an enjoyable reading experience. Recommended	2000-09-28
US	51097716	R1TPSRG2U0AJ6E	031284879X	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Slow, but intriguing fantasy	For those who believe Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time is slow, you've got to  read this book.  The pace is positively glacial.  From pages 80-300  virtually NOTHING happens.  There's tons of character development, but at  points it's extremely dull.<br />Marillier shows a lot of promise.  She  understands how a book is supposed to work.  The amount of time she puts  into her characters bodes well for future efforts.  Frankly though, this  book isn't very notable.<br />I actually put the book down when I was 60 pages  into it and thought 'Haven't I read this before?'.  There's nothing  strikingly original about the plot but if you take the time to slog through  it all it reaches a satisfactory denoument.  <br />This book is aimed squarely  at female readers.  It's got a distinctly Merecedes Lackey-feel to it.  If  you like your fantasy chock-full of unrequited love and loaded with  coming-of-age plots, check this one out.	2000-09-13
US	51097716	R9YZHC99TJBFA	0886779057	583658766	My Favorite Fantasy Story	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An Excellent Fantasy Anthology	This is a very good fantasy anthology.  It's got excellent stories like  'Troll Bridge' by Pratchett, 'Stealing God' by Doyle &amp; Macdonald,  'Liane the Wayfarer' by Vance, 'More Spinned Against' by Wyndham, and the  classic 'Unicorn Variations' by Zelazny.<br />Not all of the stories are  excellent.  I didn't enjoy the older ones (I always have a difficult time  with pre-1900 fantasy) by Ingelow, Dickens, or M.R. James.  The Harrison  story had so much information in it that it was difficult to follow.<br />What  makes this anthology stand out from others are the short introductions  given by other authors in which they explain why they enjoy that particular  story.  They don't always go into great detail (Marion Zimmer Bradley and  Tanya Huff wrote very short pieces, but the intros by Donaldson and George  R.R. Martin were particularly interesting.<br />This anthology brought several  good stories to my attention that I likely would never have otherwise read,  notably the Wyndham and Doyle/Macdonald pieces.  There's a lot of good  fiction in here for a low price.  Check it out.	2000-09-12
US	51097716	R14AOU3OY4IICS	0061051578	847958713	The Fifth Elephant: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Superb Comic Fantasy	I was blown away by this novel.<br />I haven't read a lot of Pratchett, two  books and a couple of short stories, but I wasn't overly impressed. Sure  he's good (I particularly enjoyed his 'Troll Bridge' story) but I've always  preferred Douglas Adams or Tom Holt.  This book changes everything.<br />With  'The Fifth Elephant', Pratchett creates a comic masterpiece.  He flawlessly  weaves humor, both subtle and laugh-out-loud funny, into the framework of  an engaging story.<br />City Watch overlord Sam Vimes travels into a dark and  mysterious country to attend the coronation of a new Low King.  He  discovers that the dwarf's hallowed Stone of Scone has been stolen by  unknown nefarious persons.  Vimes strives, amidst interference from  disingenuous vampires, bloodthirsty werewolves and loyal Igors, to find the  sacred Stone.<br />If that's not enough, Pratchett throws in Fred Colon, Vimes  temporary replacement on the Watch, panicking in his new authority.   There's the traveling clerk with distinctly un-clerklike skills and the  tangled love story between straight-arrow watchman Carrot and werewolf  Angua.<br />After reading through reviews for recent Pratchett books I  received the impression that they were steadily declining in quality. If  so, this one is a major comeback.  An excellent, excellent book.  A recent  magazine reviewer for F&amp;SF calls this the best Discworld book in a long  time.  I'll go a step further and call this the best book I've read in  months.  Pratchett now holds a solid place on my must-read list.  <br />Don't  miss this one.	2000-09-08
US	51097716	R3OK9PAOJCY55X	0152020675	620977749	The Wizard's Map: Tartan Magic, Book One	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An excellent read for young and old alike	As an older reader I was naturally hesitant to read a book aimed squarely at pre-teen readers.  I wasn't sure whether it'd be a facile and tepid children's story or one with more complex overtones.  Luckily, I got the  second.<br />Author Jane Yolen does an excellent job of not patronizing her  younger readers.  She tells a first-rate tale while keeping readers of all  ages entertained throughout.  <br />This book reminded me of some of my  favorite stories, like Susan Cooper's Dark is Rising series, Lloyd  Alexander's Prydain Chronicles, and yes, even the Harry Potter books.  This  would be a great book to read to your younger children at bedtime.  The  chapters are brief with most of them ending with a suspenseful cliffhanger.   I highly recommend this one.	2000-07-03
US	51097716	RCPHJOKRCMFDK	0671038591	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, No 36)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Entertaining	This book had been so highly recommended to me for so long that I finally bit the bullet and decided to dive into it.  <br />Well it's not the best book I've read, but it's head and shoulders above most other Star Trek novels.   This book is humorous (I especially enjoyed the paranoid shipboard  computer...hilarious) but the humor is downright silly.  As a previous  reviewer noted, the pie fight scene is one where I screwed up my face and  kept reading.  It seemed to belong more in a Three Stooges movie than a  Star Trek book.   <br />Several of the 'humorous' situations are forced, but  there's enough good stuff in there to keep you entertained for the entirety  of a fairly brief novel.	2000-07-03
US	51097716	R3J5UUOEBCP0P0	0312863934	867847368	Yarrow	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Astonishing...a Master at work	I loved 'Yarrow'.  It's far and away one of the most magical books I've ever read.  Being the first de Lint book I've ever read, it's served to introduce me to one of the modern masters of fantasy admirably.<br />'Yarrow'  is exciting and fluid from beginning to end.  It'll have you on the edge of  your seat.  The characters are wholly believable and fascinating people.   <br />De Lint doesn't shy away from darkness and evil characters.  The book is  littered with profanities, semi-graphic love scenes and gruesome slayings.   <br />It's a good book, it's near the top of my all-time favorites list and  I'm so glad that Orb brought it back into print.  This is a book that every  self-proclaimed fantasy fan needs to read.	2000-06-22
US	51097716	R1ZV1N7IVD72H1	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Immensely Enjoyable	Readers who enjoyed Cornwell's Arthurian trilogy will also enjoy 'Stonehenge'.  They're very similar in tone, both perhaps a little wordy at times, but in the end I feel better for the experience.<br />I enjoyed this  book immensely.  It's a good piece of historical fiction, more fiction than  historical.	2000-06-22
US	51097716	R16Q45R33L0W1S	0441515444	827705733	The Magic Goes Away	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Not even close to being a classic	The latest Niven book 'The Burning City' looked interesting, and having heard that 'Magic..' was a prequel-of-sorts, I decided to read it first.<br />This was my first experience with Niven and if it's representative  of his body-of-work as a whole, I can see why he regularly collaborates  with others...he's not very talented with the written word.<br />Most of  this book was stilted throughout.  Topping that off, it's just not horribly  interesting.  Perhaps we can give Niven a little credit for being one of  the forerunners of the modern fantasy boom, but calling this book a classic  isn't something I'll ever do.<br />The fact that other reviewers have remarked  on its similarities to a popular children's fantasy game speaks volumes.	2000-06-21
US	51097716	R1LQJJ4C67KFFH	0380802082	293706045	Vigilant (League of Peoples)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Better Than I Expected	I disagree with the previous reviewer, Greg Dufner.  Greg says that the book doesn't get going until page 268.  I enjoyed the first 200+ pages.  This is my first James Alan Gardner book, so I lapped up every word on this  interesting universe that he's created.  Perhaps Mr. Dufner found it dull  because he was already familiar with the setting.<br />I enjoyed every page of  this book.  It's got action.  It's got neat sci-fi thingamajigs.  It's got  a cool alien race.  The only flaw I found in this book was the slightly  whiny protagonist.  Faye likes to put herself down.  Poor Faye..Bad  Faye..does get old.  But in the end I found I'd read a very enjoyable  book.<br />Recommended.	2000-05-10
US	51097716	R1QNWWFMD1YSSA	0312866445	357625689	There and Back Again: By Max Merriwell	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent	I loved Pat Murphy's 'There and Back Again'.  It held my interest throughout.  Murphy has once again shown the form that's written classic  books like 'The Falling Woman'.<br />I initially picked up this book because of it's connection to Tolkien.  I was thrilled with it.  Murphy inserts  enough original material to fascinate even those who have read Tolkien  several times.  For those like myself, who haven't read Tolkien in years,  the classic material she refers to is a breath of fresh air.  I found  myself oohing as I remembered bits of Tolkien's world that I'd  forgotten.<br />Murphy stays true to the feel of Tolkien's classic.  I don't  have the words to do this book justice.  If you enjoyed Tolkien, you'll  love this one.  It's magical.	2000-05-03
US	51097716	R2M3YCJTK85FHB	044124193X	154091602	Flying Dutch	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Astounding.	I loved this book.  Tom Holt is a wordsmith, a genuine magician.  This is British humor at it's best.  It's odd that British television and movie comedy is mind-numbingly stupid (excepting Fawlty Towers and some of Monty Python of course), but that the very best humorous writing comes from the  U.K.  <br />Tom Holt tackles the 'Flying Dutchman' myth, that an old Dutch  seaman is cursed to sail the seas forever.  Holt tells us how Wagner got it  a tad wrong.  In actuality the seaman drank an immortality elixir.   Hilarious stuff.  I love reading about Sebastian, the seaman who keeps  jumping from the crow's nest to kill himself.  <br />This ranks among the best  books I've ever read, up there with Douglas Adams, Stephen Donaldson, &amp;  Tolkien.  I recommend this for everyone.	2000-05-02
US	51097716	R1XNPNI0LYU4O	0312866275	590641729	Etruscans (Beloved of the Gods, #1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Nice Fantasy	This is a fun book.  It doesn't have any deep meaning, the authors don't plumb the depths of their characters, but it's fun anyway.<br />I enjoyed the depiction of the Netherworld and the Gods.  It held my interest throughout,  which was a refreshing departure from recent books that I had to slog  through.  <br />The plot never gets bogged down by dialogue or endless  descriptive narrative.  The authors keep it moving quickly from page 1 to  the end.<br />Not the best book I've read lately, but far from the worst.	2000-04-28
US	51097716	R2Q2SNOBXG3AY5	0312890737	318023725	King Rat	Books	4	8	11	N	N	This guy can WRITE!	My first impression of King Rat was Wow!  China Mieville is a born writer.  He is a master of the English language.  I love the fantasy in this story.  It's simply magical.<br />The only drawback is that you really have to  suspend your disbelief.  There are several questions that Mieville leaves  unanswered.  For instance, how in the world are these people rats...but  they're also humans?  I don't get it.  <br />Very well written book.  Solid  story.  Highly recommended.  This gets my choice for the best debut novel  of 1998-1999.	2000-04-28
US	51097716	R3BCCBLITU33PW	031289077X	462677064	Candle (Meme Wars)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Enjoyable	I enjoyed this book more than any others I've read in a while.  Barnes does a great job (as usual) of interpreting what the future holds and letting us grab a quick peek.<br />The book is enjoyable, and the 'memes', futuristic viruses, are new, but the idea isn't.  The idea of government  control has been explored countless times, none better than Orwell's  '1984'.  But Barnes breathes fresh life into the concept.  This time, the  government isn't faceless bureaucrats, it's the mind-controlling entity  itself.<br />Perhaps what I most enjoyed about this book was the friendship  that grew between the hero and the villain.  Even though they were on  different sides of the battle, they were very similar people.  <br />This book  is short.  Barnes tells his story and gets out.  It's a refreshing  departure from the commonplace 500 page tomes.  This is a great book to  read on an airplane.  Check it out.	2000-04-27
US	51097716	R2M5TB77709WQ0	1573455369	53314669	Tathea	Books	2	36	43	N	N	An Unfortunate Experience	'Tathea' is boring and difficult to understand.  I'm trying not to write negative reviews, but I want to save others from making the same mistake I did.  <br />The story has no natural plotline.  It's all forced.  The character of Tathea overcomes one difficulty only to be faced with another.   The supporting characters come and go rapidly.  Their names are so similar  that it's nearly impossible to distinguish one from another (Surprisingly,  this detracts from the story.  Many times I found myself wondering who a  particular character is, then realized it didn't matter and skipped over  it.)<br />Perry's characters didn't ring true.  Tathea's one true friend  suddenly rejects her teachings, corrupting doctrine for his own gain.  I  don't buy it.  Characters come to believe Tathea too easily.  They  disagree, but then suddenly, within the span of a few pages, they're her  staunchest supporters.  <br />I've never read an Anne Perry book before.  I  see from previous reviews that this isn't a representation of her entire  body of work.  I'm more reluctant to give her another shot, but I'm sure  that some day I will.	2000-04-27
US	51097716	R2WOZYZOAFD57I	0312868235	455052680	The Silk Code	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Nice Debut Novel	Paul Levinson's first book pieces together threads of his brilliant short stories and in the end, is a cohesive intriguing read.<br />Levinson used one of his short stories as the basis for this novel, and the reader can tell.  The first 'section' is brilliant.  It captured my interest. I  was  hungering for more.  Then he switched gears.  Unlike a previous reviewer, I  wasn't enamored with the 750 A.D. portion of the book.  I found it tedious.   It wasn't overtly significant to the plot.<br />Overall the book is an  enjoyable experience.  Forensic detective Phil D'Amato is a great  character.  I hope to see more books featuring him.	2000-04-25
US	51097716	R7EAFPGHYZB59	0312864035	517210797	The Gift	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Masterful	Patrick O'Leary weaves a masterful tapestry of magic and wonder in 'The Gift'.  <br />He is clearly a master of the English language.  Every sentence evokes wonderful imagery.  This is one of those books where I was on the  edge of my chair throughout.  <br />There's not much more I can add that  hasn't already been mentioned in previous reviews.  It's a fantastic book.   I disagree with the previous reviewer, it can please people coming from  different viewpoints.  A Robert Jordan fan will enjoy the magic and the  evil crows and the magnificent quest..whereas more sophisticated readers  can appreciate the subtler nuances.<br />Those of us who enjoy all kinds of  fiction can sit back and bask in a wonderful experience.	2000-04-21
US	51097716	R3JDN67J0LMEU7	0786915641	494288220	Dragons of a Fallen Sun (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume I)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Delightful.	I was suprised, no..stunned, to find a well-written and very enjoyable book in the Dragonlance series.  I'd never read Dragonlance before.  I've always assumed it's low-quality hack-and-slash advertures.  Boy was I  wrong.<br />This Dragonlance book is well-written, exciting, and best of all  has fascinating characters.  I loved reading about the kender, Tasselhoff  Burfoot.  Page 377 has delightfully offbeat descriptions of a gnome and a  hedge maze that reminds me of Douglas Adams.  Hilarious.<br />I enjoyed this  book more than any other book I've read in recent months.  And I read a  lot.  I've read so-called serious books by Patrick O'Leary, John Barnes,  William Gibson, Tom Holt, Neil Gaiman, etc but this was better than all of  those.  I could go on and on about this book.  I loved it and will  certainly be keeping my eyes peeled for more Dragonlance in the future.	2000-04-20
US	51097716	R38E0FF7ADEQDD	0451457633	530205337	Tamsin	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Brilliant	I loved 'Tamsin'.  I was quite surprised to read that it's a &quot;Young Adult&quot; novel.  I'm far from being a young adult and I loved it.  <br />I almost gave up on this book early into it.  The first 50 pages sounded exactly like one of those awful books you had to read in grade school, you  know..the ones about children growing up without parents and how tough life  is.  But then this grew into a magical exploration of the ghosts and  goblins of England.  Highly Recommended.	2000-03-14
US	51097716	RSPYFE1JL7E0V	0312869584	331782180	Obernewtyn (Obernewtyn Chronicles)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enchanthing	Carmody's Obernewtyn is a magnificent read.  It's a &quot;young adult&quot; book that can be enjoyed be people of all ages.  I loved it.  In fact, after reading the copy I checked out from the library, I had to buy a copy for myself.  I'll be eagerly awaiting Tor's release of the  second book later this year.	2000-03-14
US	51097716	RSY83JZDUNKK8	0380978016	549647713	The Stone and the Maiden (House of Pandragore)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Pleasant, but empty.	Dennis Jones debut as a fantasy writer is pleasant enough but lacks substance.  The story is familiar, two people must work together to battle an ultimate evil and save the world from darkness.  During their quest they  realize they love each other (which the reader has realized from chapter 2)  and also realize the man who thought he was minor royalty is actually  descended from a powerful leader.<br />The plot isn't much.  Jones does create  an intriguing world.  I especially like the 'hemandra' creatures.  Wait for  this to come out in paperback, and only read it if you have to read all  fantasy books.	2000-02-02
US	51097716	R24IA6W6X0NNBA	0812568672	72631637	Y2k	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pleasant enough..but bland	In the tradition of Tom Clancy &amp; the rest of the technothriller gang, Pineiro's 'Y2K' is decent if already outdated only months after its release.<br />What it essentially boils down to is Slobodan Milosevic's desire  to un-Y2K-compliant the United States.  Considering the lack of Y2K-related  problems, Milosevic wouldn't have caused a stir.  It seems like Pineiro  wanted to write a Y2K story but couldn't come up with anything  plausible.<br />Good writing, nothing spectacular.	2000-01-16
US	51097716	R1RCBP0ERJTTO1	0886778557	664910677	The Renegade Dragon-The Dragon Nimbus History, No. 3	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Intriguing, but ultimately disappointing	'The Renegade Dragon' disappoints both as a novel and a story.  Radford's writing is painfully stilted at points.  A case in point 'We must not destroy this world called Kardia Hodos as my people destroyed Terra' (p. 3)  I understand why Radford put that in, she's trying to relay information to  the reader, but that's just awful.  There are several other instances which  lamentably I didn't jot down.<br />Radford's universe in one where the people  on this planet are apparently descended from human settlers.  Radford uses  abbreviations for modern amenities.  Electricity = 'tricity.  Remotes =  'motes.  Subsititute kardia for earth in every form (ie. kardiaquakes).   It's not very imaginative.<br />Perhaps the book's most egregious error is in  a machines=bad slant.  Radford spends the entire book telling how humankind  started a virulent plague which wipes out huge numbers of people, all  because of technology.  Now the kind people of Kardia Hodos must stay free  of technology so they won't die as well.  It's ridiculous.  The only way  the good people can stay free of the disease is from a tree called  'Tambootie'.  It sounds like a word a 5-year-old could invent.<br />Couple  this with cardboard characters (characters named Scarface, Hunchback, and  Red Beetle are not surprisingly evil) and you've got the makings for a  disappointing read.<br />Intriguingly, this is the second DAW book to come out  in December that had a character named Scarface and used 'ley' to tap into  magical powers.	2000-01-15
US	51097716	R36BGGXUPBGH1A	0886778700	688416315	Ring of Destiny (Dance of the Rings, Book 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Tale of Two Halves	'Ring..' can essentially be divided into two halves.  The first 300+ pages is filled with musings and arguments over the gender of a character and reflections on the events of book two.  Very slow moving.  The second half  jumps into the flow of the story and is much easier to read.<br />I haven't  yet read the previous two books in the series (though I plan to) so it took  me over 100 pages to begin to understand anything in this book.  I can't  stress this highly enough.  Start with the first book.<br />This is  exceptionally well-written and is an original take on the normally staid  field of epic fantasy.  A very refreshing read.  Fancher spends a lot of  time developing her characters so that by the end I felt well acquainted  with each of them.  I look forward to a fourth book.	2000-01-14
US	51097716	R2ALZYTHWAJJ62	0451457714	147799250	Cauldron of Iniquity (Cloak and Dagger, 3)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Bland and Unoriginal	Although it's set in a fantasy world, 'Cauldron..' is more romance than fantasy. Everything is secondary to the relationship between the main characters. Don't pick this up if you're looking for fantasy.<br />The dialogue is stilted, the plot is paper thin and the characters are by and large cardboard cutouts (Only Aubrey can be considered a complete character. He agonizes over right and wrong. The other characters are either completely moral or the exact opposite.) <br />In her defense, Ms. Groell has created two intriguing lead characters.  Intriguing enough that I'm likely to overlook any technical deficiencies and give another one of her novels a shot.<br />The short biography of Groell mentions that she is an editor, proving once again that it's not how good a writer you are, but who you know.	2000-01-11
US	51097716	R2JA66A8VSIBF2	0312854862	109812622	The Stone War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Startlingly Original	'The Stone War' begins slowly.  At first it felt like I was reading a retelling of 'The Postman' with Tietjen rebuilding New York city.  Then, it got interesting.<br />The author's vivid imagination created surprises that  both shocked and awed me.  I found myself on more than one occasion  electrified with fear.  Several passages are nothing short of  magical.<br />Robins' creates excellent characters (though Tietjen's obsession  with NY is perplexing).  Minor quibbles with an otherwise good book: 1)  lots of profanity, 2)Robins' never explains the story.  Why did characters'  suddenly receive incredible powers?  What exactly happened to the city?  In  the end, this is a refreshingly different novel from the dozens of other  fantasies on the market.	2000-01-10
US	51097716	RI6DBRSFZV8DF	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A truly excellent book	Simply put, this is one of the best books I've ever read.  Every plot line comes together to add up to something.  I'd heard people complain that most contemporary fantasy authors don't tie their plots together, but I'd dismissed it as elitist snobbery until I read this book.  Now I see that  they're dead-on.  Rarely have I seen a book as cohesive as this one. <br />It  has it all: excitement, mystery, evil forces lurking, and best of  all...Quidditch!  <br />Rowling is a very good author and has an incredibly  fertile imagination.  I can't wait for the next book in the series.	2000-01-07
US	51097716	R2P75UCGUP4IF4	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A good story	Rowling does it again, delivering another classic fantasy tale.  She preserves a sense of mystery throughout the book.<br />But I'm annoyed with her trend to make the mysteries of both books 1 &amp; 2 unsolvable.  There's no way the reader can figure out some things with the information given.<br />All this aside it's a very entertaining book.	2000-01-05
US	51097716	RUYN0N4WF94AD	0380977028	869501234	Avalon:: The Return of King Arthur	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not up to Lawhead's standards	'Avalon' never quite delivers what the dustjacket promises.  True, it's a story of the modern incarnation of Arthur, but it's a plot point barely referred to. Lawhead occasionally devotes a few paragraphs to the rebirth,  but outside of those few pages this might as well be a political novel.<br />I  question Lawhead's abolition of the monarchy storyline.  He could have  written a much more engaging novel based on the return of Arthur idea  without it.  I would have preferred Arthur physically returning from  wherever he's been than a protagonist only casually aware that he used to  be King Arthur.<br />The characters are well-drawn.  There are no gaping plot  holes (outside of the unnaturally evil British PM).  This is a well-written  book, but just as Lawhead's previous novel 'The Iron Lance' did, this one  falls a tad short.	2000-01-03
US	51097716	R2X82OGS87M0P2	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A solid continuation to the Saga	This eighth volume in Jordan's epic more than lives up to expectations.  After a slow start (Jordan spends 70-100 pages on the Bowl of the Winds, quite frankly a very dull plot point) Jordan ratchets it up a notch with  Rand battling madness, the Seanchan and treachery.<br />The main characters  are scattered across the land so Jordan has to switch from character to  character over to cover all of them.  Naturally this leaves the reader a  little unfulfilled, but not so much that it detracts from the book.<br />A few  observations: don't read the dustjacket, it gives things away that happen  late in the book.  I thumbed through book #1 after finishing 'Path'..those  who claim Jordan's characters don't change are dead wrong...At the end of  this book, I was clamoring for the next one.  It can't be much more than a  year away.<br />I enjoyed the scenes from the POV of the Seanchan invaders, it  humanizes them.  From their perspective they're not in the wrong, it's the  inhabitants of the land and their 'corrupt' lifestyle.<br />I enjoy Jordan's  books and I'll keep reading them.  You have the right to not read them..and  in fact actively dislike them.  This is good reading (if a little slow at  times).	1999-12-29
US	51097716	R3BAXFRC5T6ARE	0517572044	571622357	Divine Invasions	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Simply Divine	Author Sutin does a marvelous job of conveying the real Philip K. Dick.  He conducted interviews with each of Dick's five wives and his contemporaries in the SF field, including Ellison with whom Dick had a  nasty feud.<br />I feel that I can understand Dick's novels much better given  that all of them are so heavily biographical.  A writer is always told to  'write what you know', but Dick takes it to extremes.  Knowing so much  about his life, I'm able to see deeper into character and setting.<br />Sutin  does the reader the favor of sifting through Dick's enormous memoirs,  showing us the parts that illuminate PKD's manic personality.<br />I haven't  read enough biographies to determine whether this one is complete, but  judged on its own, Divine Invasions gives a thorough account of the life of  one of SF's brightest lights.	1999-12-20
US	51097716	R3MWMJTO9AUTFZ	044145125X	893563209	The Knight and Knave of Swords (Saga of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser, Bk. 7)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The Good...and the Bad	I'm mixed in my opinion on this book.  I loved the third short story (the name of which escapes me) where our heroes are cursed by the gods and vie with assassins.  It's perhaps the best Fafhrd &amp; Mouser story I've read.  <br />The novel included in this volume is awful.  Leiber includes gratuitous  sex to titillate the adolescent reader.  Soft-core pornography.  The story  is curiously bland as well.  The Mouser is trapped underground for a  hundred pages, while Fafhrd tries to rescue him.  Then Leiber causes Fafhrd  to be abducted and pleasured by maidens in a flying airship.  It's awful.   Really nothing here for the discriminating reader.  Leiber should have left  the Twain alone.	1999-12-15
US	51097716	R2KHJXWFPLRQC2	0380710188	840860187	The Belly of the Wolf (Lens of the World, Book 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another beauty by  MacAvoy	Those who have read the reviews I posted for the first two books in this series know that I have not been overwhelmed, citing reasons such as bland characterization and lack of plot for my opinion.  This third volume  changes all that.  MacAvoy gives us a good plot and finally develops  Nazhuret into a rich character.<br />MacAvoy gives us a treat, letting the  reader watch Nazhuret age from a child to a man of 55 years throughout the  series.  Here, Nazhuret tries to save Velonya from itself while struggling  with personal demons.  He looks for other options besides seizing  leadership.  He comes to terms with the loss of his late wife.  A treat for  the reader.<br />MacAvoy explores Nazhuret's sexuality.  First, he paired off  with a woman who always dressed like a man.  Now we see a potential romance  blooming with Dinaos (which is hinted on the last page that it did happen).   It doesn't fit with my political leanings, and I'm not convinced it  belongs in books (if I wanted sex I'd pick up one of those Harlequins), but  it's a perspective rarely seen in fantasy.	1999-12-14
US	51097716	R12KV0M26HMHXM	038071017X	767977741	King of the Dead (Lens of the World Trilogy, Book II)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Pleasant, nothing special	Much like the first book in this 'Lens' trilogy, 'King' is well-written and has one or two fairly interesting characters.  Unlike 'Lens', this volume has a plot.  <br />Once again the center of the novel is Nazhuret,  reducing everyone else to stick figures.  The character of Arlin stays in  the background.  For the purposes of this book all you need to know is that  she's a woman and she'll fight for Nazhuret.  Nothing else. The most  intriguing character, Powl, is hardly seen.<br />MacAvoy makes some baffling  character decisions.  The eunoch whose name I can't remember at one point  appears to be in love with Arlin...but it's never revisited.  It's never  relevent.  <br />I suppose I don't care for MacAvoy's writing.  The dust  jacket shows several rave reviews for these books.  I just don't see it.  I  can't fault her mechanics, only the intangibles.	1999-12-10
US	51097716	RM41778HRR6XQ	0688094848	577720720	Lens of the World	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A nice little fantasy	As in all of MacAvoy's novels, the writing in 'Lens..' is impeccable.  The author uses clear and concise prose.  For all its good points, the story left me unfulfilled at the end.<br />'Lens' is a character-driven story,  meaning that all actions and events (and plots) are secondary to the  character.  As such there's not an overriding plot throughout the novel.   It's more a series of three or four plots.  This type of story doesn't  particularly appeal to me, hence the three-star rating.<br />On another level,  the character of Powl the teacher warned his pupil, the main character,  about several things.  The character was to be a begger, live in poverty,  never consort with authority.  MacAvoy mentioned these things several  times.  Not once did it come up again in the book.  There was never a  reason provided for any of Powl's cautionings (which seemed particularly  ridculous when Powl himself didn't abide by any of his teachings).  Perhaps  MacAvoy planned for these ideas to be used in the future two books of the  trilogy.	1999-12-09
US	51097716	R2VH2DKIH54IBM	0140177035	825821952	The Sheriff of Nottingham	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A masterful blend of history and fiction	Kluger does an excellent job depicting the life of actual sheriff of Nottingham Philip Mark.  The author took known incidents and worked them into the framework of his story expertly.<br />I was interested in the  narrative for every page, a rare occurence in a nearly 500 page novel.  I've been entertained and learned about early 13th century England.  Keep a  dictionary handy.  Kluger uses obscure words.	1999-12-08
US	51097716	R1Q6I1D64TSEQC	0061050326	189798256	The Iron Lance (The Celtic Crusades #1)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Pleasant but empty	As in all of Stephen Lawhead's novels, the strength here lies in the setting.  Though I'm not expert enough to say whether he accurately depicted the Crusades, the scenes in the book evoke realistic images.<br />The  story has its merits, though there's not much to distinguish it from other  'quest' stories. Perhaps my memory is faulty but I recall 'Byzantium' to  have had a  much stronger plot.  At times during the novel (particularly  scenes with Emperor Alexius) I had to resist the urge to skip ahead.   Looking back now I'm sorry I didn't.  The scenes didn't convey any vital  information and only served to disrupt the flow of the story.<br />At the  conclusion of the book it felt like I was reading a Horatio Alger novel.   Our Hero gets the riches, gets huge tracts of land, and gets the girl, all  by being honest and brave.<br />Definitely not Lawhead's best work.  Try the  Empyrion books or the Albion trilogy for excellent fantasy.	1999-12-04
US	51097716	R6H34O3SDI754	0898793076	140588625	Characters & Viewpoint (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A good look at writing	This is an excellent book for anyone who's even thought of writing.  After reading it I can confidently say I have a good grasp of characters.  The author needs to fully flesh out his 'actors'.  Card gives good examples and  instructs the reader exactly how to create a realistic character.<br />Even if  you're not interested in writing, this is a great book to simply broaden  your understanding of fiction.  In the immediate hours finishing this book  I couldn't look at fiction in the same way, be it a television program or a  novel.  I found myself examining the characters in greater detail which  gave authenticity to the creator's work.	1999-12-02
US	51097716	RGL5V5JPAMUHM	0886770513	638727319	Horn Crown	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Good Fantasy	'Horn Crown' is an immensely entertaining epic fantasy.  The plot culminates in a classic good vs. evil matchup.<br />At times thought it seemed that Norton gave more attention to detail than plot.  She goes to great  lengths in describing an ancient castle at the expense of action.  I found  my mind wandering as I read the three pages of describing stones, hallways  and tables.  I didn't realize the story had resumed until I was two  paragraphs into to, necessitating a re-read.  There were several such  instances.<br />A good book for a cold night.	1999-12-01
US	51097716	RMFMZHM9JHQR8	0345309502	13627405	Gryphon in Glory (Witch World: The Gryphon Saga) (Del Rey Books)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Beautiful..but lacking	A friend recommended that I read this book, citing Norton's beautiful prose.  She was right..it is beautiful.  Often, throughout the first 100 pages I was struck at how fluid the language was..and the story was  interesting too.  It was a classic epic fantasy quest..until halfway  through the book.<br />Then it turns into a love story.  The reader is  subjected to Kerovan's thoughts on Joisan, and Joisan's thoughts on  Kerovan.  Norton didn't make it any easier on the reader by alternating  viewpoints between Joisan and Kerovan.  Example: Kerovan is walking,  reunites with Joisan, is overcome with emotion, switch to Joisan  viewpoint..we go back a few hours and don't come back to the Kerovan scene  for another 10-15 pages.  I've never liked a writer who holds the reader  hostage.  <br />It's a good book.  I didn't understand some references because  I didn't read the first book, so I recommend starting at the beginning.	1999-11-30
US	51097716	RV8TXWJQRH6AX	0839824009	773264064	Swords in the Mist (Fafhrd and Gray Mouser)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good reading	It's a shame that these Leiber books are out of print.  They're well-written and exciting.  Reading these I felt the same excitement I had reading Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories in that once you're done with  a story..you get to start another one all over again.	1999-11-29
US	51097716	R2JV4Y31SY9CZ7	1565049268	934339135	Ill Met In Lankhmar - Tales of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser Volume 1	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good stories from a bygone age.	Leiber's stories are a remnant from a time when writing was generally excellent.  Crisp, well-written..never a wasted word.  Fafhrd &amp; the Gray Mouser are excellent heroes.  This edition in particular is good  because of the lengthy introductions written by Leiber.  He explains the  origins of Fafhrd &amp; the Mouser while at the same time telling a little  about his life.  Stories that should be read by everybody.	1999-11-29
US	51097716	R2SW99Q67ETNA7	0553288733	57167313	Tehanu (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 4)	Books	3	1	11	N	N	Slightly better than previous Earthsea books	Tehanu, while not a great read, is better than the previous three Earthsea reads.  It has some action..it has moral choices to be made regarding Therru..it has a dramatic ending...and it shows the gradual relationship  blooming between Ged and Goha.  <br />I could really sense how much Le Guin  has grown in the 18 years separating the two Earthsea books.  She's aged  and learned more about life, which helped her characters immensely.	1999-11-26
US	51097716	R2QAEQ47ZBOT6B	0553268473	380161256	The Farthest Shore (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 3)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Good read...not transcendent	'..Shore' is a simple read.  It's not a complex book.  It doesn't seem to have a deeper meaning. It's just a story about a guy trying to save the world.  As such, it's not that interesting.  It takes all the reader's  energy to stay focused during the interminable paragraphs.<br />The only part  I truly enjoyed about this book was Le Guin's depiction of the dragons.   They came alive.  A few sentences of description and I could actually  picture them.	1999-11-26
US	51097716	R3OEHUHQKOQ29W	0553273310	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Not Excellent	Well I'm now two books into Earthsea and I still can't understand why it's considered a classic.  The story moves slowly.  There's not a lot of beautiful prose or descriptive detail.  Much of the action is expository.   I'll keep reading but it's not classic.	1999-11-24
US	51097716	R6VD0YVMRVBE	0679781374	104788172	Radio Free Albemuth	Books	4	1	4	N	N	More Readable than Valis trilogy	'Albemuth' is definitely easier to read than the other books of the VALIS trilogy.  It's more of a traditional story than one written around philosophical ideas.  Reading it helped me understand Dick's idea of VALIS  more completely.	1999-11-24
US	51097716	R366LN4L8901CQ	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Weird, weird, weird	VALIS is difficult to understand.  It doesn't develop into the semblance of a story until the hundredth page.  It's a deep book, full of spiritual underpinnings.  If you're an easily offended Christian, don't pick up this  book.	1999-11-23
US	51097716	RS56QG3OGBJFM	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Easier read than previous book in VALIS trilogy	Easier to read..not understand.  '..Invasion' is heavy in metaphysical underpinnings.  What is real and what is illusion?  It's a question that's never fully answered in this novel.<br />Like VALIS, '..Invasion' examines  Dick's encounter with an odd colored light in 1974.  Dick attempts to  explain what in the world happened to him.  Some think these books prove he  was slipping into madness.  I agree.  It's an entertaining book and will  make you think.	1999-11-23
US	51097716	RZ0ZCZLB3GNH5	0679734449	480135461	The Transmigration of Timothy Archer	Books	3	1	7	N	N	Bizarre	Not for the easily offended Christian.  <br />It's an engaging read, though at times it bogs down in its psychological ramblings.  Like VALIS &amp; The Divine Invasion, this book examines what we consider to be reality.  Radio  Free Albumuth is a better examination of the same topic.	1999-11-23
US	51097716	R3LK6K6K6TR8XQ	0812500865	224165151	The Folk of the Fringe	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Powerful	The short stories in this collection present a powerful view of humanity.  I particularly enjoyed the story about the traveling musical family.  I believe two of the stories were nominated for several of the big SF awards.	1999-11-20
US	51097716	R1VGPNW3EDGUYJ	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	3	2	9	N	N	A decent read	I expected more from this book, given the reputation it's received over the years.  It's difficult to read..the reader has to really concentrate to read the countless paragraphs without action.  The whole evil shadow thing  is very confusing.	1999-11-20
US	51097716	RF99UF6Z9TDF	0061091316	56455717	Lost Boys	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Magnificent	Master storyteller O.S. Card puts together a fascinating, often upsetting, look at family life in North Carolina.  The surprise ending is particularly powerful.	1999-11-19
US	51097716	R3QLRTQF9C571H	0060176555	350955066	Homebody	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Interesting	Interesting story, lots of character development...but it lacks the Card oomph.	1999-11-18
US	51097716	R3V89UBYZHRZW3	0812521358	551510993	Hart's Hope	Books	3	5	19	N	N	Different	Hart's Hope isn't your typical Card novel.  He keeps the philosophy to a minimum, choosing instead to tell a story.  <br />It's not a great story.  It's decent.  It's all a little weird.	1999-11-17
US	51097716	R1MEL9SCUA7WVB	0441000681	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Amazing	What an amazing book.  Gibson creates a realistic future world.  Incredibly well-written.  It takes two or three reads to fully grasp everything, which is why I didn't rate this with 5-stars.	1999-11-16
US	51097716	R38QIOQVG2X3WM	0812521366	893179314	Wyrms	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Amazing	I'm not a Card sycophant, but every time I read one of his books I'm blown away.  The complexity of the stories is mind-boggling.  Even the simplest stories ends up with heavy philosophical thought.  I actually had to stop  reading and think about the concepts presented.<br />Not a bad story either.   Card gives epic fantasy a shot.	1999-11-15
US	51097716	R13UX7PLCTYFTA	0884047598	36896534	Fear	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Fear good, not great	'Fear' is a good read, but far from the spine-tingler the reviews claim it is.  I was left a little confused at the ending.  I reread it twice but still couldn't quite understand what happened.  The reader is left to  guess.	1999-11-10
US	51097716	RLLC8822ZJWO7	006109398X	343008033	Treasure Box	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An Entertaining Read	You know you'll never go wrong with a Card book.  They're all entertaining.  The first 20-30 pages of this book are enchanting.  I couldn't put it down.  It was entertaining the rest of the way, but not at  the same level.<br />The climax of the book is rushed, Card compresses it into  20 pages leaving the reader a little shell-shocked.  Tension and mystery  build..and then it's all over.  Not a great book, but a decent read.	1999-11-10
US	51097716	RD6PSOOEERC82	0884042901	792918482	Villainy Victorious (Mission Earth Series)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Awful..Smut	The decision to throw Soltan Gris in prison in vol. 7 and remove him as narrator is really hard to defend.  There's nothing that couldn't have been done better with Gris still running around the Confederacy wreaking havoc.   Monte Pennwell was an atrocious idea.  I suspect Hubbard died before the  series was finished with someone else finishing it off, assuming the  Pennwell identity to mask a different writing style.  (Else Hubbard is  truly a master of voice..since most writers carry their writing tone in  everything they write)<br />Skip over the chapters involving Teenie, unless  you're a undersexed teenager.  Awful, awful stuff.  Base two books around  the worst characters (Teenie and Madison) in the series?  What were they  thinking?	1999-11-08
US	51097716	R3LCLYI7PXFHFZ	088404291X	335461021	The Doomed Planet (Mission Earth, Vol 10)	Books	1	9	14	N	N	Huh?	This is the second book in this series where a reviewer mentions how realistic the series is.  Huh?  Are we reading the same books?  So..real life is run by the IRS, all police officers are corrupt..the mafia runs the  world...and someone out there is teaching everyone that homosexuality is  the only way to live?  It couldn't be less real.<br />This book is only  readable if one has already read the first nine volumes.  The only saving  grace lies in that it's very easy to read..only 2-3 hours at most.  Hubbard, or whoever wrote this volume, kept his sexual obsession to a  minimum, thank goodness.	1999-11-08
US	51097716	RWXFFFW8R65MV	0884042898	363931774	Disaster (Mission Earth, Vol 8)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Hubbard...or not?	Halfway through volume 8, 'Disaster', the narrator of the previous 7 1/2 volumes, Gris, finishes his story.  Why does Mission Earth continue for another 2 1/2 books?  Beats me.<br />There's a new narrator now, and the  author's voice is astonishingly different.  The reader can catch him using  passive tense in several points, and the writing isn't as fluent as  Hubbard's was.  Say what you will about this series, it's remarkable  readable.  All this leads me to believe it wasn't really Hubbard finishing  up the series.  Hubbard died in 86 or so, supposedly after he finished this  series.  With no evidence whatsoever, I believe the final 2 1/2 books were  ghostwritten.  <br />This volume is entertaining.  Gris finally gets what he  deserves.  It's fun to see Heller cleaning up the galaxy.	1999-11-06
US	51097716	R1XEFKH2XQ2KFV	088404288X	73553322	Voyage of Vengeance (Mission Earth, Vol 7)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Read the Previous Review	The previous review is fantastic.  The story is readable..nothing more.  And the nymphomaniac angle?..please...it gets so boring.  All Hubbard writes about is sex, sex, sex.  I'm starting to think he had a complex.  As  to the previous reviewers assertion that some of this was ghostwritten, I  100% agree. Starting with the second half of the 7th book, the author's  tone changes noticeably..and declines in quality.	1999-11-06
US	51097716	R3G7V6W4DFSAH9	0884042847	478520093	The Enemy Within (Mission Earth, Vol 3)	Books	2	16	18	N	N	Really Really Bad	This 3rd volume in the Mission Earth series is really, really bad.  It should be subtitled 'Soltan in New York'.  Every other chapter ends with the phrase 'Heller is ruined now!'.  It's like a 3-Stooges book.  Soltan  schemes, Heller escapes, Soltan growls and takes it out on subordinates.   Characters are beyond belief, even for so-called satire.	1999-11-03
US	51097716	R34BVWQEOD18VL	0884042839	326748138	Black Genesis (Mission Earth Series Vol 2)	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Satire or Cruelty?	While reading this volume, I was struck by the thought that Hubbard's so-called 'epic satire' isn't satire at all.  See, in order for satire to work, it has to be grounded in truth.  Otherwise it's just an absurd claim  that makes one scratch one's head rather than laugh. This volume is filled  with these head-scratchers.<br />Apparently Hubbard's idea of satire is saying  things like, 'All Turks have 'Bey' following their name.'  That borders on  racism.  Or take Hubbard's assertion that all government officers are  corrupt and that the IRS is evil.  Sure there are some segments of society  that believe these two things, but they're idiots.  Truth dictates that  neither of the above precepts are true, ruining Hubbard's attempt at  satire.<br />It's a fairly interesting story.  Nothing to write home about.	1999-11-03
US	51097716	R1XKJOLBOUYBVT	0884042855	667808178	An Alien Affair (Mission Earth, Vol 4)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Entertaining, but Still Plain Bad	'An Alien Affair' is entertaining enough, if you struggle through the mind-numbingly stupid lesbian plot-line (how many times does Hubbard want us to see Gris being tortured by lesbians?  It happens 6 or 7 times).   Luckily I kept reading, the book was so stupid until that point that I  nearly gave it up.  After that it was mildly interesting.  Not on my top 10  list..in fact, though I don't have a list, I'll bet it's in the bottom 10  of all the books I've ever read.  As to the reviewer from Columbus, OH who  claims this book is realistic and great..get real.  Obviously a  Scientologist.	1999-11-03
US	51097716	R3K8FFQU2JXUQD	0312921098	601083613	Treason	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Intellectually challenging and thrilling	One of Card's earlier works is also one of his best.  That's like saying one Sandy Koufax fastball is faster than his others.<br />I was blown away by  the far-out ideas presented in this book.  It's like nothing I've read  before.  It had me, a hardened reader, actually freaked out.  I can't  remember the last time something I read affected me so deeply.	1999-10-31
US	51097716	R1ZOJXNXK6Z6ZU	0812519469	634425056	Harvest of Stars	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Very, Very Interesting	After reading the numerous rave reviews on the cover, I was expecting a masterpiece.  I didn't get it until page 420 or so.  The last section of  the book is masterful.  Beautiful.  As it's the last section, it's the part  the reader will remember best, which is the only rationale for the  excellent reviews.<br />'Harvest..' starts like any other SF novel.  Earth is  a global planet with Asians &amp; South Americans dominant.  There's an  oppressive, unfeeling government.  So far nothing we haven't seen 100  times.<br />The story isn't very good either.  I found myself confused on  numerous occasions.	1999-10-30
US	51097716	RWIGW6SLPY0OC	0812524861	259564312	Songmaster	Books	3	3	16	N	N	Pleasant Enough, but Haven't We Seen it Before?	It's easy to tell 'Songmaster' was written at different times.  The breaks between each section disrupt the narrative flow.  Card seems torn between  which story to tell.  At one point, he's telling the story of the  Songhouse, then Ansset's quest for love, then Ansset's redemption.  Just  when I'd figured out what the book was about..it changed.<br />The problem  with the changing theme, is that none of it matters by the end.  When  Ansset returns to the Songhouse, the love he's felt for Mikal or Josif or  Kyaren doesn't matter.  It's superfluous.<br />Another complaint...doesn't the  book's theme seem familiar?  Young boy..prodigy..better than everyone else.   It's Ender's Game all over again, with Card exploring the same themes he  did in the entire Ender series.  Young prodigy, outcast from the main  struggles for acceptance..which is why this is not a great book.	1999-10-30
US	51097716	RSSHME3LCDHSK	0884042820	326748138	The Invaders Plan (Mission Earth Series, Vol 1)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Well-Written	Back to the review, extremely well-written.  Hubbard's 'Invaders' never struggles for its next scene or plot.  It flows smoothly throughout the entire novel.  The protagonist,  Soltan Gris, is a despicable person struggling to cope with the  unpredictable circumstances he's thrown into.  <br />The book does grow weary  at times.  Gris gets into trouble and more trouble and more trouble, and  always escapes.  At points I found myself saying, 'Get on with it  already!'.  <br />I'm totally unfamiliar with Scientology, so I can't judge  whether the book is an attempt to brainwash readers.  Hubbard does include  some comments on the foolish humans destroying their planet.  If that's  scientology I can see why it appeals to Hollywood airheads.<br />No explicit  sex.  All profanity is replaced with a (bleep) so it's easy enough to skip  over.	1999-10-26
US	51097716	R1R3QDX1AUFO6N	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Amazing	Book 2 in one of the finest epic fantasy sequences ever written.  This is the volume where Martin's action really gets going.  Book 1 was largely an expository novel.  Martin introduced us to the characters and their backgrounds and seemed to tease us with some of the more fantastic elements in his world of Westeros; showing us the creepy ice villains, The Others at the very beginning of the novel, but then taking them away for the remainder of the book.<br />Book 2 is still light on the fantastic elements, but this in no way impairs its quality as a novel.  Martin's story takes off with action on every page.  Intrigue.  Treachery.  Villainy.  An amazing whirl through an incredible colorful world.  Compelling characters...some of which live, and some of which do not.  Martin has achieved an infamy in fan circles with his ruthlessness toward popular characters.  <br />This is a fabulous novel, and Martin's series is just getting started.  With a projected six novels, you can be assured of hours of entertaining reading.  And it only gets better!  As good as Book 2 is; Book 3 is even better.  George R.R. Martin is a master stylist sure to be remembered in genre lore as the equal of the old masters.  Highly recommended.	1999-10-26
US	51097716	R2JI8DQ9KW1TO4	0312857675	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intriguing	I'm glad the previous reviewer mentioned she was just kidding and that she's not really Nynaeve.  She had me going.<br />'Crown of Swords' picks up where 'Lord' left off.  Rand battles his mistrust of Aes Sedai and  continues to withdraw from the world.  There's not much point in critiquing  the novel here (it's well-written by the way) as Jordan fans will buy it  regardless and those looking for a real review will be interested in vol.  1.<br />Let me take a paragraph to note Jordan's 180 degree turn in his  representation of women.  Throughout the early volumes (particularly #4),  women are all-knowing and arrogant. Starting with the very first page in  this book, Jordan goes out of his way to showcase women's fallacies.   Elaida misinterprets a foretelling, all Aes Sedai underestimate Rand,  Nynaeve &amp; Elayne crawl to Mat and apologize.  Frankly it's a nice  change.	1999-10-21
US	51097716	R29IVD0LSX1OYB	0312867522	953091978	Rhapsody: Child of Blood	Books	2	24	31	N	N	Disappointing	I'm stunned by the number of five-star reviews here.  Either something's very wrong with everyone else or me.  I'm more inclined to believe the former.<br />Far from being the enchanting fantasy so many describe it as,  'Rhapsody' is a tedious meandering story about three characters with no  goal, at least not one the reader learns about until page 400 or so.  The  characters simply exist, their actions have no resonance.  Even the turning  point of the novel, Rhapsody joining with her 2 companions, is contrived.   Why on earth would she stay with these two once safely away from Michael  (which is another thing entirely.  Why waste so much effort on a character,  even writing a scence from his POV, when he disappears so  quickly)<br />Haydon's flaws are easy to spot.  She imbues her characters with  the emotions she wants them to have, usually happiness.  The characters are  always smiling affectionately at one another.  If one snaps angrily at  another, the character smiles and apologizes, completely out of character  for a merciless assassin and a cannibalistic giant.<br />Haydon's dialogue is  stilted at points, particulary chapter 49, one of the sloppiest I've ever  read.<br />Haydon writes several scenes in excruciatingly pornographic detail,  definitely not what I expected from this book.<br />All this aside, it's a  reasonably entertaining book.	1999-10-21
US	51097716	RTW2AW5DKC9TM	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	'Not a Fantasy Novel'	Though 'Thrones' is classified under fantasy, it doesn't actually fit, save for a few passages.  Outside of the Others and the Dragons, the majority of the book involves different nobles plotting for power, seizing  power, and fighting for power.  The book could easily have been set in  early Europe.<br />That notwithstanding, I was disappointed in 'Thrones'.  It's a fine novel, but not the exceptional read I was expecting based on  reviews.  Explicit sex..and too much of it.	1999-10-15
US	51097716	R25EMOI0ZLZVVF	0312854285	861837137	Lord of Chaos	Books	4	1	2	N	N	'Lord' Delivers	With 'Lord of Chaos' Robert Jordan breaks new ground in the Wheel of Time universe.  Instead of using interesting ideas mixed in tedium, the writing improves to a palatable level.<br />The story is as fine as the rest, if you  overlook the Aiel.  The Aiel, much like the Seanchan, the Whitecloaks, and  the Breaking of the Tower, are all unnecessary plot devices serving only to  stretch the series beyond the original six books to a possible 11 (based on  an online chat with the author).  None of the forementioned plotlines  advance the main story, namely Rand vs. the Dark One.  I can accept some  Aiel, they're mildly interesting, but if one combined everything together  there would be at least 30 pages of Aiel Maidens flashing handtalk and  laughing at Rand (The Shaido rebellion story has to go as well).<br />That  being said, 'Lord' still maintains focus on the good vs. evil story with  multiple Forsaken plotlines.  I just wish Jordan would get on with it  already.  Do we really need to see Rand struggling with ruling different  cities?..especially with Sammael lurking.	1999-10-15
US	51097716	R38JTF29RHNHJQ	0689829892	400011174	The Dark Is Rising (Dark Is Rising Sequence)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What a Book!	I'm going to echo the words of so many other reviewers here, it doesn't matter how old one is, this is an excellent book.  I first read it at 13 or 14..now so many years later I still feel the wonder that I did back  then.<br />One of the best good vs. evil books ever written.  Highly  recommended for everyone.	1999-10-15
US	51097716	R20CF5N8SO3X1Z	0553110349	225476603	Reave the Just and Other Tales	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lackluster collection disappoints	I don't have the style and eloquence of many of the other reviewers, so I'll be blunt.  Most of the stories in this book are boring.  Perhaps a literary scholar can appreciate them, but not a casual reader.<br />Nearly all  of the stories are set in the Middle East (or a reasonable facsimile  thereof), with lots of sand and heat.  The one story that stands out is  'Penance', whose undead hero strives for mortality..and even 'Penance'  drags for the first 20-30 pages.<br />The sci-fi 'What Makes Us Human' is  intriguing but in the end pointless.  It has no moral, no lesson..it's just  a retelling of a fictional incident.  Which in the end is what all stories  are.	1999-10-05
US	51097716	R2Q5MLM1Y4AQR2	0812552881	704014122	The Third Book of Lost Swords: Stonecutter's Story	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Slightly improved	'Stonecutter's Story' is better than the previous two 'Swords' books.  The plot is more interesting and Saberhagen uses more dialogue to move the story along, but in the end, it's just as pointless as the first two.  The  good guys will prevail no matter how imposing the opponent.	1999-09-30
US	51097716	R2IAS5VNKMRW85	0312930321	564302662	The Second Book of Lost Swords: Sightblinder's Story	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Not much better than previous volume	Saberhagen does it again.  Yet another boring, pedantic story with as little dialogue as possible.  The dust jacket claims these are best-selling books so someone must like them.  Not me.	1999-09-30
US	51097716	R36K09BZFQ0R8G	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A+	I don't often give out 5-star reviews, but this is an exceptional book.  It was a brilliant idea to write this book.  Bean's story is fascinating.  The reader gets a broader view of the whole story than in 'Ender's Game'.   For instance (I'm not going to give away the plot) the flashing light on  Bean's control panel.<br />There's not much more I can say that hasn't been  said already.  Buy this book.  It's one I'm proud to have on my bookshelf.	1999-09-28
US	51097716	R3CR0SD4BTO7I9	0812520580	143014365	The First Book of Lost Swords: Woundhealer's Story	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Ugh	This is the sort of review that I hate to write.  I'm not a great writer so I hesitate to criticize anyone's work...but it must be done.<br />This book is simplistic.  The reader can easily see that it was written in the  mid-80s, before content and quality became necessary in top-notch fantasy.   Saberhagen takes different fantasy concepts, throws them into a blender and  out comes the story.<br />The biggest mistake is using a straight-forward  narrative style.  Saberhagen uses no more than 2 to 3 lines of dialogue per  page.  He covers immense amounts of action with only a few  lines..completely removing any drama that could have been there.   <br />Additionally, the first 20 pages had some of the most atrocious grammer  I've ever seen.  Saberhagen liberally used the passive tense and sprinkled  the pages with fragments and run-on sentences (I hate to point out the last  two because I believe an author has the right to put them into his own  work)  To his credit, the book gets better.  But it's still an inferior  work.	1999-09-27
US	51097716	R1BCBBR0DXYYRJ	0312854277	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Much improved	'The Fires of Heaven' is much, much improved from #4 in the series.  Jordan completely eliminates every one of his overused phrases from 'TSR'.  No more people muttering under their breath or smiling amusedly at  another's embarrassment.  (Okay, so the women still like to try on  different, outrageous clothes in Tel'aran'rhiod..and they're surprised by  someone every time, but no one's perfect)<br />Like all of Jordan's books,  this one bogs down a little in the middle..but it's a much shorter period  than normal.  The action pretty much goes straight throughout.  I was left  at the end wanting more.	1999-09-27
US	51097716	R30RU5HQRM56TP	0898794161	219557233	How to Write Science Fiction and Fantasy (Genre Writing)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent treatise	Card does an excellent job of doing exactly what he promises..teaching the reader how to write sf and fantasy.  I highly recommend this to anyone who wants to write in this field.<br />Card deftly uses his own experiences to  show the reader how to create a universe.  His throwaway paragraphs  depicting sentence structure and other techniques show the reader how easy  it is to create an interesting universe.	1999-09-27
US	51097716	R3ZEH3YX0LEX0	0312854315	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	'Shadow Rising' a.k.a. 'The Aiel Book'	I admit it.  When I first read 'Eye of the World', I thought the Aiel were a neat idea.  A mysterious xenophobic group of people.  But, as Jordan has done with so many things, he shreds the mystery.  By the end of the book,  the reader knows everything about the Aiel.  I mean everything.  Jordan  spends at least 400 pages concerning Aiel.<br />'..Shadow..' follows the  by-now-familiar pattern of Jordan's books..an interesting beginning  followed by a fast descent into mediocrity, then wraps it up into a  mind-blowing final 100 pages.  <br />Sometime around the middle of this book,  Jordan's constant use of the same phrases really started to bother me.  He  spends way too much time having characters upset with others...also the  amused looks are way too much.<br />Example: Character X (usually one of the  Big 3) is teased/mocked/embarrassed by a supporting character (usually an  Aiel).  Character X's traveling companions always look on with a smile on  their faces, enjoying X's discomfort.  Jordan must have used this 15  times.<br />Even more annoying though is Jordan's arrogant characters.  The  Aiel Wise Women are at the top of the list.  They think everyone else is  'foolish'.  Apparently they despise everyone who thinks differently from  them.  From there it's a short step to the rest of the women.  They think  all men are 'foolish'.  Jordan's favorite term for men is 'wool-brained'.   After about 80 instances in this book alone, I, for one, was very tired of  it.  <br />Finally Jordan likes to have a character muttering under its  breath..usually about something derogatory to another character.  The first  time it was funny.  The next 15...no.<br />Wrapping it up, 'The Shadow Rising'  is not a great book.  Robert Jordan is not a great writer.  It is  entertaining.  As I said earlier, the final 100 pages are slam-bang  entertainment.  I couldn't put the book down (I even took an extra lunch  hour to finish the book off).  If you're looking for good fantasy, WITHgood writing, check out Donaldson's Thomas Covenant books.	1999-09-21
US	51097716	R15NP2S6KWROS9	0312185758	80867101	Excalibur (Warlord Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best	I came to Amazon prepared to write a glowing review, deeming this book as perhaps the best book I've ever read.  Imagine my surprise when I saw the previous two posts had the exact same words in them!<br />Cornwell is a  phenomenal writer.  He takes the Arthurian legend in fantastic different  ways.  His depiction of the brutal warfare was breathtaking.  I couldn't  put this book down.  A+  I hope we delves into this era of history again.	1999-09-18
US	51097716	R5OMNVJPPNMXJ	0553379844	272365831	The Jackal of Nar, Book One of Tyrants and Kings	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good story	Not an epic fantasy in the sense that there's no quest for the hero, just a good fantasy novel.<br />The book slows down for 100 pages in the middle before ratcheting it up a notch for its high-powered finale.  Through the  400th page I was left wondering..why?  There was no drama.  The hero was  never in any danger.  But then it got interesting.<br />Although the book  could easily be pared down to 500 pages (do we really need Richius being  called to Tharn three or four times while in Kronin's castle?), it's an  engaging story.  I'll definitely read the sequel.	1999-09-13
US	51097716	R2WLU7Y814H7UJ	0380790726	528954477	Octoberland (Dominions of Irth, Bk 3)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Disappointing 'Octoberland' lacks compelling story	'Octoberland' never lives up to the brilliant fantasy of the first two volumes of the Irth trilogy.<br />Author Lee uses a modified version of the awkward chapter structure he used in 'The Wolf and the Crown'.  Lee almost  completely abandons the world of Irth, focusing his story on The Dark Shore  or Irthlings who immerse themselves in Dark Shore culture.<br />Where are the  Spiderlands? Or the aelves?  Those stories both had the potential for great  fantasy.  What was most lacking though was the presence of Lord Drev, a  central character in book 1 of the trilogy.  One can argue that his story  has already been told, but his was a fascinating character that I, for one,  would have liked to read more about.	1999-09-07
US	51097716	R3RZXX12WTESZR	0312155239	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Simply Masterful	'Enemy of God' is a thrilling read.  Cornwell combines the best parts of the Arthur mythos with the realities of the 6th century (I believe) to create a believable depiction of the legendary Arthur.<br />The story takes  off in the final 100 pages to create the first exciting conflict of the  entire series.  Previously the battles had been interesting, but lacked  drama.  I don't often give out 5 star reviews, but this book is remarkable.	1999-09-06
US	51097716	RS5K0JFDSGRLP	0312144474	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent	There's not much more I can add that hasn't already been written below.  This is a fantastic book..though it took a while for me to get into.  Give it 100 pages.  You'll be hooked.	1999-09-04
US	51097716	R7BQO9JCTH0US	0310205093	328094300	The Search for Fierra (Empyrion, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Phenomenal	One of Lawhead's earlier works..but definitely one of his best.  I was surprised to find this in my local bookstore...I thought I'd read everything Lawhead had written.  What a pleasant surprise.<br />This is a  story that will suck you in and leave you begging for more.  The instant  that I finished this volume, I had to read the second, so I immediately  jumped on-line and ordered it from Amazon.  You'll be glad you read this  book.	1999-09-03
US	51097716	R5P5KALMLYY52	1573454060	556754170	Far from Home (Children of the Promise)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Remarkable Series	I don't usually (in fact I can't ever recall doing it) give a 5-star review..but these books by Dean Hughes are amazing.  They paint the picture of an LDS family caught up in WWII.  <br />The reader follows one son in a  Japanese labor camp, another as a top-notch paratrooper..a daughter serving  as a nurse in Hawaii...and more.  As a younger person, I learned a lot  about this particular time period.  I love historical fiction..it really  gives the reader a taste of a different era.<br />The book may not have the  spirituality of Gerald Lund's saga, but it's much more well-written.   Hughes avoids all of the Lund-isms.  His characters don't have group hugs  whenever they get together.  They don't grin sheepishly..or any of a dozen  other phrases.  Well worth reading.	1999-09-03
US	51097716	R2TF5OUSEO4OF2	0310205085	77222785	Empyrion II: The Siege of Dome	Books	4	4	4	N	N	As good as Volume 1	Lawhead achieves an all-too-rare accomplishment in fiction...a sequel that's as good as the original.<br />The Siege of Dome picks up right where '..Fierra' left off.  Our hero, having found the legendary Fierrans, is  compelled to save them from the evils of Dome.  Fascinating adventure.   <br />It's categorized as sci-fi, but I'm more willing to call it fantasy.   The characters are transported to an unknown land...where, in true fantasy  form, they encounter all sorts of unknown dangers.	1999-09-03
US	51097716	R1U90K4HRVJQTH	0061058394	985950855	The Eagle and the Sword: An Arthurian Epic	Books	1	6	10	N	N	'Eagle and the Sword' drags on and on and on	'The Eagle and the Sword' is an incredibly heavy-handed dull book.  Attanasio uses a running narrative for the entire 340 pages, so that instead of feeling like a part of the action, the reader is treated to a  history lesson.  (Example: This happened, then this happened..and then this  happened..That's the basic gist of it)<br />At several points I found myself  wondering whether English is Attanasio's original language, or whether this  book had been translated from another tongue.  It's hard to believe that  this is the same author responsible for the stunning Adam Lee 'Dominions of  Irth' trilogy.	1999-09-03
US	51097716	R3K7RO73UQ77AK	0310205522	511416294	Dream Thief	Books	3	1	6	N	N	'..Thief' not quite up to par	'Dream Thief' isn't as stunning as the rest of Lawhead's work, which is an accomplishment in and of itself given Lawhead's amazing writing ability.<br />It's a nice sci-fi story, but there's nothing extraordinary  about it that sets it apart from any other sci-fi novel.  It's one of  Lawhead's earliest works, so I'm sure it was a growing experience.	1999-09-03
US	51097716	R2IAR1UE1351Q7	0812509242	667775993	Heartfire (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 5)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	'Card blows it again'	Well, he's done it again.  Orson Scott Card blows off yet another series.  As he's previously done to the Ender series and the 'Earth' novels, he turns in an utterly horrible novel in the middle of his series.  <br />'Heartfire' has none of the charm of the first books in the series.  The  main plot lines consist of slaves voluntarily trapping their 'spirits' (for  lack of a better term), and Alvin's quest to help a girl with special  powers.<br />As if that's not enough Card does nothing to advance his 'Crystal  City' storyline.  He saddles the reader with incredibly annoying  characters..Mike Fink (I believe his name is) who swears and serves no  purpose I can fathom..the frenchman-philosopher (whose name I can't  recall)..ditto Fink..and Arthur Stuart, who becomes more and more  annoying  with each passing page.  If I were Alvin I'd leave the annoying child  behind.  <br />If Card weren't so good at creating interesting fiction I'd  stop reading him in a heartbeat.  I don't know whether he gets bored with  his series, or there are no new stories to tell, but just as with books  3&amp;4 in the Ender series (awful), and books 4&amp;5 (especially 5) in  the Earthfall series, Card apparently quits on another series.	1999-09-02
US	51097716	R1672M4QQ5J41Y	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	'Eye..' ably begins a thrilling saga	I'm not going to claim 'The Wheel of Time' is the best series ever written (even its most stalwart fans will have to admit it pales compared to Tolkien) nor claim Robert Jordan as the greatest writer..but 'Eye of the  World' is the first book in a well above-average series.<br />Frankly the  attacks I've seen here baffle me.  What does it matter whether each  character thinks others are better with girls than he?  Claims that the  characters lack substance are absurd.  By the end of the third novel, all  of the main characters are fully fleshed out.<br />Jordan's series isn't  hard literature.  No one (to my knowledge) is placing this alongside  Tolstoy, Dickens, or Melville.  It's escapist fantasy.  And in that vein  it's among the best of its genre.  This has earned a treasured place in my  bookshelf.	1999-09-01
US	51097716	R2XRF99CK1P6FE	0312852487	820960971	Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	'Dragon Reborn' is a thrilling read.	After reading the first three volumes of 'The Wheel of Time' books, this third volume is far and away the most well-written.  I found myself hanging on every word with nearly 200 pages remaining.  Jordan's prolific  descriptive powers come through fully.<br />Don't let recent reviewers  (although he does make sense) throw you, this is a fascinating read.  It  reminds me of a recent 'Buffy' television series episode.  It focuses on  the supporting characters as they fulfill their tasks...giving a new and  fresh perspective.  Although it is odd to have the main character of the  series (and the very subject of the title no less) virtually non-existent,  this gives the book enough of a different feel to make it  intriguing.<br />Remember, some people live to criticize.  Form your own  opinions.	1999-09-01
US	51097716	R2BZAYC76BBZP6	0312851405	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	'Hunt' continues the story.	'The Great Hunt' bogs down in the middle.  There was a point where I thought 'Of course the hero will prevail.  It's an 8-part (and counting) series'.  I was right.<br />That being said, the story's numerous plot threads  come together marvelously to create a thrilling final 50 pages.  Well worth  reading.<br />Ignore the criticism.  This hasn't become a best-selling series  for nothing.	1999-09-01
US	51097716	RSGHI7G3NJ6ZP	0061057762	485394716	The Wolf and the Crown	Books	3	2	2	N	N	'Wolf...' interesting but falls short	Attansio's interpretation of teh Arthurian legend is fascinating and well-written, but it took this reader nearly 100 pages to become acclimated to the author's bizarre shortened chapters.  Attanasio abbeviates his  scenes so that they last no longer than 1 1/2 pages at the  most.<br />Interestingly, it doesn't appear that his work suffers because of  it...yet it was still disconcerting.  This was the first Attanasio book  I've read.  Despite what others have written, it is possible to use this as  a jumping-off point into his novels.	1999-08-26
US	51097716	R7UVVVFLSYLDU	0345416872	281816523	Enchantment	Books	4	0	3	N	N	A 4 Star Read	A classic story.  Hero falls for a girl while embarking on a magnificent quest.  A great romance for the literary set.	1999-08-26
US	51097716	R1ZKJ66NPP1BKX	0380790734	45796315	The Shadow Eater (Dominions of Irth/Adam Lee, Bk 2)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Near Perfect	The Shadow Eater was simply outstanding through the first 200 pages.  I found myself hanging on every word.  <br />Unfortunately the next 100 or so, though interesting, wasn't as good.  Lee made the unusual choice of making The Dark Shore of the first novel into Earth.  Perhaps I'm missing  something (and that's very possible) but I don't see too many cacodemons in  my city.	1999-08-18
US	51097716	R2KSOPX5Q47XU1	1570084319	698687473	Our Sacred Honor (Prelude to Glory, 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I couldn't put it down!!	An amazing read!  This book earns a spot on my bookshelf.<br />Though Our Sacred Honor begins slowly, it's worth the wait to wade through the character introductions.  Carter is able to blend his fictional family into  the Revolutionary War seamlessly, while also giving the reader a taste of  the realities of war.<br />While reading this book, I gained an appreciation  for what our founding fathers did.  They're not just names in a history  book anymore. I'm able to think of them as real people.  I strongly  recommend this book.	1999-08-11
US	51097716	RELDQY8P1441O	0679428887	926822340	Archangel: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Archangel intriguing, but not a good read	Whereas Fatherland and Enigma were fascinating, Archangel is little more than readable.  The story never meshes.  It's not until the 250th page or so that the reader finally understands the whole plot.  For the bulk of the  book I was struggling to understand what the big hubbub was  about.<br />Despite the confusion, the book holds together well until the very  end.  The final 20 pages are mind-boggling.  I had to re-read it several  times to understand what was happening.  It's as if Harris was rushed to  finish the book and compacted several chapters worth of information into  one.  Disappointing.	1999-08-11
US	51097716	R3ABJTOD9UCRO8	0375500898	142953671	The Marching Season: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Marching Season...you can't put it down	Silva creates another winner with The Marching Season.  Like Unlikely Spy and Mark of the Assassin, Silva copies from the Tom Clancy best-seller formula.  Take one unassuming man, thrust him into combat with villains,  and wait for the royalties to roll in.  <br />I couldn't put the book down.   It's a tad implausible, but exciting just the same.	1999-08-03
US	51097716	R1W479OI729JNI	0312868146	930271191	Necroscope: Invaders (Necroscope: E-Branch Trilogy)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lumley's Invaders Doesn't Measure Up	While Invaders is a decent read, it's nowhere near the level of previous Necroscope novels.  Invaders is more of an introduction to the E-Branch books than a full-fledged novel.  Lumley spends over 70 pages relating the  vampires' backstories which, while interesting, is in the past and contains  no drama or action.  As one reviewer mentioned, the vampires' abilities are  very familiar.<br />There was very little actual vampire action in the book.   The bulk of it deals with E-Branch preparing to engage the vampires and the  new protagonist's indoctrination into E-Branch.<br />There is a moderate use  of obscenity.	1999-07-27
