US	51098906	R371A3D45NR815	0881950637	564002938	First Steps in Knitting	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Okay, but not as your only resource	I'm using this publication, among others, to teach myself to knit, and since it's still very widely sold (even though it dates from the early eighties), I figure it could use a review.    This is not a full-length book, but more like a pattern book which includes some lessons in the very first basics of knitting.  The lessons are fine so far as they go, but they will probably not be adequate to really help the first-timer to do the projects featured.  The first project given to brand-new knitters is a sweater- basic though it may be, I really think that would be too much for someone with no real experience or adequate guidance.  It would be very discouraging to get started on such a project, only to get bogged down or to realize that your finished sweater just doesn't look good enough to wear.  Some of the other projects strike me as even tougher, involving cabling etc.  What I'm really saying here is that the publication needs to provide at least twice as much instruction as it does, especially in the form of illustrations and pictures.  It also needs to provide several more really easy projects to give true novices a taste of success.    That having been said, I will say the projects featured can be very useful for taking a beginning knitter to an intermediate level (if you get extra help from an outside source), and they're quite practical as well.     Just to note, the sweater was shown on an inappropriately \\"made up\\" model to try to make it look \\"stylish\\".  So nowadays the photo looks hopelessly outdated.  But as you knit the actual pattern in the color of your choice (eliminating the stripes if you want), it really comes out fine.  And with its relatively easy pattern, it is great as a first sweater.    I would say that \\"First Steps\\" is a perfectly good investment for those who like one of more of the projects featured, but don't just buy it all by itself and try to learn to knit with it.  Knitting is a great hobby, and it would be a shame to end up giving upfor lack of thorough directions.  I would recommend a full-length book specifically for beginners for anyone trying to learn knitting on their own.	2004-12-06
US	51098906	R2NM0C3A4SWVR2	0830823751	929100490	The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions About Intelligent Design	Books	5	22	45	N	Y	Another fine Dembski offering	This book will be enjoyable and informative to anyone interested in the issue of intelligent design.  Dembski covers a broad range of issues and objections related to his specialty in a question and answer format that makes it reasonably easy to follow, even for the lay reader.<br />One reviewer below apparently felt that Dembski did not cover all the territory he needed to.  Can it be that this individual does not understand the significance of the information question that is the focus of Dembski's work?  Perhaps he expected a greater focus on nuts-and-bolts biology?  At any rate, since the reviewer seemed to accuse the author of intellectual cowardice, he should have been more specific about Dembski's alleged problem areas at least.  In my opinion, this book does a fine job of confronting the toughest objections to design head on.  Buy and enjoy!	2004-07-20
US	51098906	R22OHFWEO6CZOG	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Why all the controversy?	Non-Catholics and those whose life in the Church has been somewhat sheltered may wonder at the accuracy of the portrait that Michael Rose paints in his book.  In some ways it does seem too bad to be true- how could Catholic seminaries go from orthodoxy to a \\"gay subculture\\" in a mere decade?  What possible factors could cause priests and nuns to reject core Catholic doctrines?  Are conservatives really persecuted?<br />However, I do believe it.  Moreover, I don't think the substance of Rose's assertions can be reasonably denied.  How else to explain the simple reality that in many dioceses in the USA, it is extremely difficult or impossible to find a reasonably traditional parish with solid teaching and a reverent liturgy?  Orthodox and devout men are, by definition, more apt to be attracted to the priesthood than any other group.  So where are these men?  To suggest they are all unfit for the priesthood is laughable- unless you believe that orthodoxy itself makes a man unfit.  This is exactly what the powers that be in many dioceses do believe, and that is the situation Rose describes.  It is worth noting that nowhere in the book does Rose pretend this describes all dioceses, or that the situation is equally bad everywhere.<br />The descriptions of a gay subculture I would have believed exaggerated, except for the recent revelations regarding priestly assaults on (mostly teenaged) boys.  Sorry, but there is no way to explain this abysmal scandal unless we understand that homosexuality has been thriving in certain sectors of the Catholic priesthood for decades.  To blame celibacy is irrational, since a heterosexual man who can't cope with abstinence will turn to women, girls or even magazines.  He certainly won't turn to boys, unless we want to believe that men can be spontaneously \\"converted\\" to homosexuality by lack of sex!!<br />Since most of the material in the book is anecdotal, it's tough to make any real conclusions about the state of the American Church in general.  More analysis of the source of these problems along with more data about their scope would have made the book even more useful.<br />I will note that some of the book's material is so scandalous, that Catholics have to be very discerning about reading it (especially true of sexual material).  Let's face it, the \\"dirt\\" tends to be fascinating, and can easily distract good Catholics from their own sins and need for improvement.  Granted, an educated population is in a better position to work for positive change, which is why I think the book is important and valuable.  But don't hesitate to skip over certain portions, and do read only with the intention of taking some sort of action in response, even if it is only to support good seminaries, or to inform yourself about your own local programs.  An appendix helping Catholics to respond to the book's information in an appropriate and fruitful way would have been a great addition.<br />I'm recommending this book with the reservations expressed above.  Catholic adults need to understand and continue to combat the realities Rose describes.	2004-06-30
US	51098906	R298KHPZPGI5PC	1581345615	360495942	I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist	Books	4	23	34	N	N	Glad I bought it	I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist does a fine job of covering all the major arguments for God and, more specifically, for Christianity.  The style is very accessible; even those readers who already have heard many of the arguments may have a lot to gain from the clear and easy-to-remember ordering of its material.<br />But I am going to go out on a controversial limb here and say that this book has a big hole in its logic- a hole shaped like the Catholic Church.  The authors write as though there were only one type of Christianity; they don't pay Catholicism (or Orthodoxy, which is theologically similar) even the respect of trying to refute it.  This is not due to an effort to be ecumenical; the book takes a frankly Protestant viewpoint in many places (e.g. pages 277, 292 and much of chapters 14 and 15).  All I can say is that any reader who is serious about investigating truth in religion needs to honestly take a look at the Catholic Church.<br />I think the book may also be a bit weak with respect to Darwinism.  The authors don't take the theory quite as seriously as they should, nor do they exhaustively refute all its major arguments.  If anyone really wants to undertake an argument with a naturalist, they should read more extensively.  In addition, the book tries to regard the question of the age of the earth as unsettled (to please the young-earth camp), which might give scientifically educated skeptics an excuse to reject the book as a whole.<br />Still, even with its flaws, the book is valuable.  A good investment for your library.	2004-06-03
US	51098906	R1PMXT3DWFH9G9	0738204412	232125841	The Hurried Child: Growing Up Too Fast Too Soon, Third Edition	Books	4	44	50	N	N	Good book; a little too easy on us parents!	In The Hurried Child, Dr. Elkind does a competent job of describing a seriously problematic trend- the increasing inability and even unwillingness to appropriately \\"cushion\\"  children from the modern world.  The message is simple and eloquent: millions of children are simply not experiencing a proper childhood for a multitude of reasons.  For some, it may be overcompetitive sports; for others, early sexuality or economic exploitation (children wielding more money and being strongly pursued as a consumer group).  But regardless of form, hurrying leaves children trying to deal with adult concerns.  While such kids may seem sophisticated, the deeper reality is that they are still children.  This false maturation interferes with real maturation, and leads to problems in adolescence and adulthood.<br />Dr. Elkind gives this book more popular appeal by making his case gently- there are no \\"Dr. Laura\\" type challenges here.  But if the reader will think through the implications of this book, it is clear that children are being \\"hurried\\" because parents aren't making the kinds of choices necessary for a fulfilling and protective family life.  Instead, they pursue personal, material and status-oriented goods, very often to the detriment of the family.  This is not because they don't care for their kids, but because our culture is so steeped in radical individualism and materialism that the very idea of what a family is supposed to be is lost.  It is no surprise that the children suffer as a result, in terms of both emotional and character development.<br />I would propose a more profound solution than the \\"moderation\\" one to be found in this book.  The cult of the individual needs to be overthrown.  Parents should never make family-altering choices based solely on personal desires; the good of the children and the family unit as a whole should strongly influence what each member does.  In addition, the excessive emphasis on \\"achieving independence\\" in childhood should be balanced with a recognition that all children need to be nurtured according to their stage of development.  Children are not ready to be \\"individuals\\" in the adult sense of the term, which is why they are so easily influenced by peers, advertisers and celebrities.  A strong, loving and non-hurrying family is a far more healthy source of influence than such factors.  The more parents recognize and act upon these realities, the less kids will be \\"hurried\\", and the more they will be \\"trained up in the way they should go.\\"	2003-04-09
US	51098906	R1256W6R4GJZOJ	1576737217	276250953	Home by Choice: Raising Emotionally Secure Children in an Insecure World	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Let's put the kids first!	This lovely little book does a good job of arguing the case for mothers staying home with their children, if this is at all possible. It also features discussions of the most common problems that mothers at home face, and suggests some good ideas for dealing with them. <br />The best and most important point made by Dr. Hunter is that women who stay home have more time and energy to devote to building their marriages and their families. While the \\"day care\\" argument is open to disagreement and controversy, it cannot be debated that there are twenty-four hours in a day. The mother who devotes ten of those hours to work and related requirements (travel, etc) simply can't give as much to her family as she would probably like. When she is at home, she is often physically and emotionally drained, and possibly preoccupied with work-related problems. Her husband is almost certainly facing similar problems, so the family usually suffers to some degree.<br />Another very good argument is that which addresses older children and loneliness and supervision issues. Too many moms assume it's just fine to work full-time when the child goes to school. The reality is that our culture, and especially our youth culture, can be dangerous and destructive. Older children need parents who know how they're spending their time, parents who talk to them when they need it, parents who teach them right and wrong, parents who guide their friendships and media choices and parents who spend lots of time building a family that is an appealing alternative to constant peer interaction. Part time work or study can be compatible with this, but full time work will probably make it unrealistic for the parents to fully meet such needs.<br />The arguments from infant attachment and the problems of day care are also important, but they may be over-stated just a bit. To some readers, these may sound like discouraging and fatalistic predictions. Like the other issues I mentioned above, this is an area whereone-career families are decidedly in a better position. However, if singles or dual-career couples recognize the problems and pitfalls of not having mom at home, they can work around them to some extent. The need to work should never be an excuse, or a reason for despair!<br />The weakest chapter in the book is chapter seven. I do not believe that the rash of \\"school shootings\\" had nearly as much relevance to this issue as Dr. Hunter implied. She had no specific information or evidence to bring to the table, and should definitely have left this emotionally charged issue out of the book. Scare tactics like these are below the belt.<br />All parents should realize that the standards in our culture with regards to family life are far too low. Regardless of what work arrangements might be necessary, there isn't a parent who can't learn from this book the simple point that our families must be our first priority, not just in our words but also in the choices we make day by day.	2003-01-27
US	51098906	R3O6XRIC2XQO3O	080105625X	792153437	Homosexuality and the Politics of Truth	Books	4	35	63	N	Y	Worth your time	This is, overall, a fine book, which will serve as a good resource for anyone interested in the issue of homosexuality.  Dr. Satinover covers a number of relevant topics, including the genetic argument, the realities of the lifestyle itself, and the possibility of change.<br /> I would like to see chapter three, which covers the undesirable nature of the homosexual lifestyle, greatly expanded in future editions, perhaps to several chapters.  The importance of looking objectively at what the homosexual lifestyle means to the actual human beings who practice it can't be overemphasized.  Hopefully, Dr. Satinover will have more good studies available to choose from in years to come.<br />One argument that might be developed at some point in the book is the argument from the sterility of homosexual acts; in other words, these acts aren't intended by nature for procreation the way the act of heterosexual intercourse is.  They thus cannot serve as the foundation of a family.  Then, if we accept the traditional Judeo-Christian principle that all moral sex acts must serve the interests of the family, either by procreation or by promoting the marriage bond, all homosexual acts must be seen as immoral.  While many other arguments might be seen as leaving some room for exceptions (e.g. not all homosexual acts are physically harmful), this argument applies to all such acts by definition.<br /> The second part looks at the human and religious dimension of homosexuality, which rounds out Dr. Satinover's arguments nicely.  After all, we are far more than machines that run on data; we are persons with a profound spiritual dimension.  This section features some very good chapters about different avenues of change for homosexual people, as well as an interesting discussion on the response of Orthodox Judaism to homosexuality.  On the other hand, I have a major disagreement with an idea that undergirds a couple of the chapters in this section - the idea that original sin destroys humannature rather than merely damaging it, so that sin itself becomes \\"natural\\" for humans.  Polytheistic cultures are thus viewed as necessarily and extremely corrupt.  Such global judgments at least need to be backed up with a great deal of hard evidence, which is not provided.  A more realistic worldview, coupled with more research, would give these chapters greater credibility and interest.<br /> But on the whole, I really liked the book.  I would recommend that those interested in this topic ignore all the detractors, who don't back up their blustering \\"opinions\\" with any arguments or facts.  Enjoy this fascinating and well-presented read!	2003-01-16
US	51098906	R23DB3A3CLCYFS	0312203152	576675569	Hyper-Parenting : Are You Hurting Your Child by Trying Too Hard?	Books	2	37	48	N	N	Great topic, but not too well executed	Hyper-Parenting possesses the best of intentions, and is not lacking in insight and even, in places, eloquence. But the overall message is confusing and disjointed, and I was left unsatisfied in the end.      One big problem is that what &quot;hyper-parenting&quot; means precisely is never truly established. One chapter criticizes the perfectly natural tendency to cherish a child in the womb. Another chapter discusses stressed children being pressured to ???excel??? in status-laden endeavors. Are both these totally different situations &quot;hyper-parenting?&quot; In one spot we are rightfully reminded that &quot;the important and meaningful connections [with our kids]defy scheduling.&quot; But in another place, we are apparently encouraged to schedule yet more time away from the kids &quot;for the things we want to do.&quot; Why, so we can be sure to miss those important and meaningful connections? Can the reader be blamed for feeling a little confused?      The authors seem to assume that families are frazzled mostly because parents just take too much time doing things for the kids. Potential stress-builders, according to the book, include not only individualistic activities like music lessons and sports, but also family-building activities like nightly dinner at home. Unstructured family time is praised, but the book's assumption seems to be that this time will be suddenly abundant if we just quit karate. The possibility that Mom and Dad each take 50+ hours a week to work, and that this might be a big contributing factor, basically goes unaddressed. Such a one-sided view of the busyness problems suffered many families is not likely to be very helpful in the real world.      The book is plagued in several spots by poor philosophy. The authors talk sincerely of ethics, but then take an entire chapter decrying excessive &quot;self-sacrifice&quot; and &quot;martyrdom&quot;. But the problems the book describes are based mostly on status seeking or an inadequate understanding of family life. The differences between these poor choices and authentic self-giving are not considered. The last chapter treats us to a relativistic essay about how we each need to figure out the fundamental questions of life based on &quot;feelings.&quot; So objective reality has nothing to do with the fundamental questions of life? Was this shallow pop philosophy really necessary?      Fundamentally, this book doesn't succeed as well as it could because it combines too many topics under one umbrella without doing a sufficient job of defining terms, making distinctions and just thinking things through. What could have been a fine book ends up inconsistent and somewhat rambling. It needs to be re-written.	2002-06-30
US	51098906	RG0G54FE7BJ75	0786886161	300971212	The Unexpected Legacy of Divorce: The 25 Year Landmark Study	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Very valuable info	This book contains vitally important information for anybody connected with or considering divorce.  This includes parents, step-parents (actual or prospective), divorce lawyers, judges, social workers, teachers and, or course, the children of divorce themselves.  Dr. Wallerstein devastatingly and eloquently describes the host of familial, emotional, social and financial problems faced by these kids- problems that not only endure to adulthood but may frequently even intensify.  It will not be comfortable reading for those involved with divorce, but it will be extremely useful.<br />I have three basic reservations about the book:<br />1.  Dr. Wallerstein spends more time discussing how we can \\"improve\\" divorce than how we can improve marriage.  Granted, many divorced people have no choice in the matter, and they need good advice.  But wishful discussions of two mature and unselfish divorced parents cooperating for the good of the child begs a question: if these parents are so capable of working together that they can deal well with the thorny and delicate parenting problems associated with a divorce situation, why not put those skills into building a better marriage?  After reading this book, I am convinced that the latter would be far easier, less complicated and better for the kids!<br />2. The book seems to view cohabitation as similar to marriage and unmarried sexual activity in adults as normative.  Both these views are as indefensible as the view that divorce is harmless.<br />3. In a few spots (e.g. page 108), the book appears to hold children in general to a rather low behavioral standard.  Parents might get the idea that destructive behaviors like drug experimentation, teen sexual activity and heavy drinking are \\"normal\\" just because they are common in our culture.  But regardless of how accurate Dr. Wallerstein's data may be, she should have clarified that parents who want authentically successful kids need to raise them to be good, not just \\"average\\".<br />However, in spite of the reservations, I recommend this book for the information related to the long-term consequences of divorce.  For those considering divorce who have a choice, the message taken from this book should be: avoid it!  For those with no choice, the message from this book should be: understand what your kids are experiencing and put them first!  For the rest of us, whether Dr. Wallerstein agrees or not, the message should be to work towards stronger legal restrictions on this extreme solution.	2002-06-24
US	51098906	R27WFGVMZJREP3	0385487622	767903106	The Weigh Down Diet	Books	3	117	130	N	N	Great insights, but not the last word.	There are two really great things about this book. First, it helps those trying to lose weight to realize that eating behaviors influence calorie intake (and therefore weight) as much as what is actually eaten. Mrs. Shamblin encourages three basic changes for the overweight eater to make:<br />1. Eat only when physically hungry<BR>2. Eat slowly, savoring both food and company.<BR>3. Stop when full, not gorged.<br />If you can follow that advice, you can't help but to reduce your calorie intake significantly!<br />The second great thing about the book is that it promotes more prayer and a better relationship with God as the best way to stick with the healthier eating program. That's a fresh perspective for a weight loss book! On the other hand, Mrs. Shamblin has a religious outlook that is partly Evangelical Protestant and partly her own.  This outlook is definitely reflected in her spiritual and scriptural perspectives, and those of us who don't share her beliefs might want to turn to other sources for that \\"closer walk\\" with God. Further, the author's desire to support *all* her ideas using Scripture leads to weak or even odd biblical interpretations in a few parts (e.g. page 81). Yet overall, the religious aspect of this book is a plus.<br />A very big weakness of the Weigh Down system is that the rules above are seen as \\"God's Way\\" of losing weight, so that other methods (cutting fat, less sugar, more fiber) are wrong or even ungodly! Even exercise is not strongly encouraged. On the contrary, the best diet plan is the individualized integration of many good habits. No one thing should be done in an extreme manner; nutrition, good eating behaviors and exercise should all be used according to the person's needs and temperment. It is particularly important to \\"err on the side of caution\\" with respect to complete nutrition; many respected authorities see nutritional lack as being a big problem in this country.<br />So read this book, then read several more to get a well-rounded perspective, so that you can follow that on-and-only, unique program that is best for *you*.	2002-04-03
US	51098906	R2MOXTDYWFLLCO	0316779032	726278199	The Discipline Book: How to Have a Better-Behaved Child From Birth to Age Ten	Books	4	67	86	N	N	Plenty of wisdom, little science	Here is a great book to own for Dr. Sears fans and \\"attachment parenting\\" families. It gives balanced advice, emphasizing the importance of respecting and understanding the child as a person without falling into the \\"parent as powerless mentor-friend\\" trap. The Searses were in the process of raising eight children when this book was written, so it contains a great deal of wisdom gained from vast experience.<br />Probably the biggest drawback in this book is the tendency to use the term \\"attachment parenting\\" interchangeably with the more general psychological term \\"attachment\\" (which is basically the same as love, according to my understanding). I will not deny that many families find that Dr. Sears's famous attachment parenting methods (such as the family bed and infant wearing) actually do promote good attachment, but they are means to an end and not mandatory for all.<br />Another weak area concerns the issue of spanking. The Searses are known for holding to the respectable view that spanking is not the best way to discipline, and that other methods are preferable. I have no problem with their view, but the so-called \\"science\\" that is used to support the view is very poor. No effort is made in any of these studies to look at responsible spanking; rather, all physical discipline is lumped together, including angry spanking, inappropriate spanking, and outright child abuse. Sorry, but these \\"studies\\" either have little to do with the issue at hand (loving discipline) or are simply worthless wastes of time that do not belong in this book or any other! The Searses themselves probably made the decision to not spank based on personal experience; they should cite this and leave the junk science alone. As an aside, the parent who does choose to spank will find a section in this book regarding how to do it lovingly, which I endorse, and which, ironically, is similar to advice offered by pro-spanking writers like Dr. James Dobson.<br />To sum up, I recommend this book. However, if its gentle methods aren't working, by all means look for more assertive (but still loving) methods. Children thrive best where discipline is effective, as well as loving and fair.	2001-10-26
US	51098906	R26VN13G5MTNRJ	0761513779	867203898	The Homeschooling Book of Answers : The 88 Most Important Questions Answered by Homeschooling's Most Respected Voices	Books	3	9	13	N	N	An valuable but incomplete picture	Some previous reviews notwithstanding, this book does not provide a sufficiently complete overview of homeschooling as practiced today. It focuses on the viewpoints of those who favor an \\"unschooling approach\\", where the child pursues his own interests and curricula are de-emphasized or unused. This makes the book interesting and valuable, since parents get the chance to consider the possibilities of this type of methodology, but other the other principal means of homeschooling a child (a traditional curricula at home) gets less emphasis. I would recommend that those seriously interested in homeschooling read other books or materials to get the whole picture.<br />I think parents who follow some of the ideas expressed in this book need to be careful that their child receives a well rounded education. Some of the contributors may seem to suggest that children will \\"pick up\\" what they need as they pursue personal interests, but I don't think that will happen in all cases. Children and parents who get the privilege of homeschooling need to take on the responsibility of getting a good foundation in all major subject matters, even those they don't like. Also, some kids may have aptitudes they won't discover unless parents really insist that they give each subject a good, solid chance. But the good news which this book brings out is that homeschoolers have the flexibility to really focus on special talents, and need take only moderate amounts of time on those subjects which aren't so important to them personally. Homeschooling families also have the freedom to approach notoriously \\"boring\\" subjects from non-conventional angles to create more interest.<br />To sum up, I recommend this book because it will introduce options and make the reader think, which is really good. However, more research is needed before any family even makes preliminary decisions regarding the best way to educate their child.	2001-10-23
US	51098906	R2513EFYZIKWVT	0684851849	519661821	The Myth of the First Three Years : A New Understanding of Early Brain Development and Lifelong Learning	Books	4	50	50	N	N	A new perspective	I'm going to start by disagreeing with a reviewer below. Dr. Bruer is not suggesting that we ignore our kids! Rather, his valuable book makes the simple point that neuroscience does not &quot;prove&quot; that the experiences of the first three years profoundly and irreversibly influence the remainder of life. It is true, Dr. Bruer points out, that abnormal and/or abusive environments do indeed damage kids. However, provided the child experiences normal care (a standard which varies greatly worldwide), he should develop normally. According to Dr. Bruer, There is no good nueroscientific evidence that &quot;enriched&quot; environments lead to better brain development.<BR> <br />Dr. Bruer also points out that there may be good reason to believe that the brain remains plastic (changeable) throughout life. That's good news for those who came from less advantaged environments! It's also a relief for parents who for whatever reason could not give their children the good start they would have liked to give.<BR> <br />This book is important to read for two reasons: first, it gives a good example of how science can be misinterpreted or even &quot;created&quot; in order to further a pre-set goal. Second, it sheds some light on a potentially dangerous effort to introduce super-early education programs for all children, disadvantaged or not.<BR> <br />But I am holding back a star because Dr. Bruer fails to qualify his arguments with an important point. Even if the first three years do not of themselves determine the course of life, these are the years when habits are formed and the parent-child relationship is established. In other words, if we handle kids well and spend lots of time with them in years 1-3, we are much more apt to continue to do so in years 4-6, 7-9 etc. The kids will also have the good habit of enjoying their family life, and will, I believe, be much more open to parental influence. For this reason, parents need to take the day-care vs. in home-care decision much more seriously than Dr. Bruer implies.<BR> <br />With that caution, I would recommend this book to parents, teachers and anyone interested in public policy.	2001-09-07
US	51098906	R2PZ8C9FJ786GL	0395480728	137810006	Kitchen Science: A Guide to Knowing the Hows and Whys for Fun and Success in the Kitchen	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A great addition to the home kitchen	This interesting and fun-to-read book really helps the home cook understand the hows and whys behind cooking and food, which is essential if one is to get beyond the stage of simple preparation and slavish adherence to recipies.  Even better, this book has inspired me to want to learn more.<br />I personally don't prefer the question and answer format, which is one reason it doesn't get five stars.  Illustrations could help make difficult concepts more understandable, and it could stand to go through another revision and expansion.  However, I found it a satisfying read, and well worth my money.	2001-09-05
US	51098906	RZN3MLY8EM58Z	0449004023	270954632	Healthy Sleep Habits, Happy Child	Books	3	849	1018	N	Y	Useful to some degree	I generally like to start my reviews by saying what I liked about the book I read.  In my opinion, the best and most important point made by this book is that sleep is vital for babies. Parents should be on the lookout for signs their child might be suffering from lack of it, and should also make sure their lifestyles do not interfere with their child's healthy sleep.  I also appreciated the author's input about sleep problems and solutions for older children.<br />I disagreed most with the idea that it is generally a good idea to allow children to cry as long as it takes to get them to sleep at night.  Will this method do long term psychological damage?  The author says no, and I agree that is probably correct.  Okay, so the child won't be delinquent as a teenager, or hate you as an adult.  But as a parent, my question is which method is easiest on the child in the short term, as well as being effective in the long term?  Frankly, I don't want my child to be unnecessarily miserable, even if it's only for a few nights.  Further, I simply couldn't listen to screaming cries for any length of time without intervention.<br />For the parent interested in sleep &quot;training&quot;, I think Dr. Richard Ferber offers a better method.  Even Dr. Weissbluth admits Ferber's method's work- he simply thinks they may be too difficult for some parents to apply.  Well, I think a little more difficulty may be worth while if the child has an easier time.<br />Oddly, Dr. Weissbluth claims to have no problems with the &quot;family bed&quot;.  However, I find his family bed advice confusing, and most of the tips he offers throughout the book seem to be incompatible with the practice.  If anybody is practicing the family bed, they should definitely go with Dr. William Sears, whose advice is much more compatible with that arrangement.  Dr. Sears is also a good choice for those who find Dr. Ferber too harsh and want the gentlest methods possible.<br />I tend to disagree with the view of some &quot;attachment parents&quot; that babies always develop the sleep habits that are best for them.  There are babies who simply need parental leadership here, and there are also babies whose habits are disruptive to the family.  So if parents think their baby has a problem, they should read several books about the topic, and adapt the different views to their personal situation and temperment of their individual child.  I think that will lead to a better solution than reading just one book and treating it as a bible.	2001-07-07
US	51098906	R2JTB9YFJN58BH	0876591993	582544686	125 Brain Games for Babies	Books	3	40	42	N	Y	Overpriced, but pretty good	Considering the content of this book, it is really not worth the fifteen dollars listed on the cover.  It consists of games and activities that are basically traditional; the sorts of things that most mothers do with their babies.  Five to ten dollars at most would have been a much more reasonable price.<br />However, it is not a bad book at all.  Contrary to what the  previous reviewers said, parents will not automatically know all of these games.  Granted, I would definitely have done some of the things mentioned in the book with my child anyway (for example, holding the baby and making faces), but many of the other games may expand the parent's &quot;bag of tricks&quot; or inspire new ideas in them, and there's nothing wrong with that!<br />The best thing about the book is that it emphasizes the importance of human affection and interaction in promoting brain development, rather than expensive toys or gadgets.  So go ahead and purchase it if you find it on sale, or take it out of the library.  Just getting a few good games or tips will make it worth your time.	2001-04-16
US	51098906	R43DDFV7LW6TL	0671620991	24530937	Solve Your Child's Sleep Problems	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Unfairly reviewed, but has some good advice	After reading some of the reviews featured on this web page,  anyone thinking of buying this book might think it was nothing more than one long essay justifying the emotional neglect of children.  That is an unfair picture of this book.  The information here is the result of years of research by a respected sleep specialist, who seems to have a real liking and affection for children, and a sincere concern for their well-being.<br />I certainly understand why some parents disagree with Dr. Ferber regarding sleeping through the night in young infants.  It's much like toilet training- the question as to when an individual child &quot;should&quot; be sleeping through the night is very difficult to answer with any precision at all, and the wise parent will be fairly open minded in this area, and will definitely want to do what is best for their child, as well as for themselves.  If that means getting up in the night when the child is six months or more, then so be it.  Parents should also consider their options carefully regarding the family bed and night time feeding.  Dr. Ferber's opinions on these matters are not the only valid ones; many families feed during the night and sleep with their babies with no problems.<br />Another disagreement with Dr. Ferber which I tend to support concerns the length of time that children are sometimes permitted to cry using his plan (up to 45 minutes).  While I don't think his recommendations constitute child neglect, I do think the times involved may be too much, especially for young children who do not understand that they are being taught anything.  I personally would use caution in applying these methods, taking my child's individual temper into account and considering gentler alternatives first.  Also, I don't think I would use any of these controversial methods on my child under one year of age without significant modification.<br />On the other hand, there is also some great advice in this book regarding the sleep problems of children of all ages, including adolescents.  Dr. Ferber covers problems with sleep scheduling in toddlers and older children, nightmares, sleep terrors and sleepwalking.  This book also features important information on disorders like narcolepsy and sleep apnea.  Even the most devoted &quot;attachment&quot; parent could find some useful information and advice in this book.<br />So don't close your mind!  Read this book if you are having problems, and apply its advice with great caution and love.  It could just be helpful.	2001-03-08
US	51098906	R20R5D6NE3QI2V	020162690X	241178840	Touchpoints: Your Child's Emotional and Behavioral Development, Birth to 3 -- The Essential Reference for the Early Years	Books	3	46	64	N	N	A Mixed Bag	I enjoyed reading this book and got a lot out of it, since it is well written and compiled in a helpful and easy format.  Dr. Brazleton offers some valuable insights using his unique &quot;touchpoint&quot; terminology; his observations regarding highly sensitive newborns are indispensible for parents of premature babies or other &quot;stressed&quot; infants.  I also appreciated his child-centered approach to issues like feeding and toilet training, which can easily become the source of harmful and unnecessary &quot;power struggles&quot;.<br />However, in the area of moral development, I thought the book left something to be desired.  The disciplinary &quot;limits&quot; advocated by Brazleton seem oriented towards a functional morality.  The child learns to operate as a productive member of society; he should learn to make and keep friends- but little else.  The better course for parents, I believe, is to promote moral principles such as justice and honesty.  Of course, these will not be learned in the abstract sense until adolescence, but even a small child can learn that some things are wrong, not just ineffective or inappropriate.<br />I also tend to think that Dr. Brazleton puts too much emphasis on independence, to the exclusion of reasonable parental leadership.  I am referring more specifically to his advice to permit children to work out their own social problems, both as siblings in the home and in larger social groups.  While it is important that parents not be hovering or overprotective, we need also remember that it is precisely with siblings and peers that children learn to be fair and compassionate.  How will they learn these things if parents and other adults refuse to teach?  In addition, children, like adults, desire a just and orderly society where rules protect the interests of the weaker members.  Nobody likes or truly thrives in a &quot;jungle&quot;.  Therefore, it is important that parents and other adults understand when to step in and inspireor demand better behavior.  I did not get too many insights from Dr. Brazleton as to how or when to do this.  I would suggest the works of Dr. James Dobson for a better discussion of moral and peer/sibling issues.<br />So while I may refer to this book from time to time for help with practical matters, it will probably not offer me too much with regards to some of the more abstract issues of development and parenthood.	2001-02-22
US	51098906	RXO9XCTRTH8I6	0060912510	851336603	Everyday Life in Early America	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Very solid social history	This is a great book for the ordinary reader who would enjoy a chance to learn a bit more about the history of our country.   With 176 pages of written text, it can't provide an extremely in- depth description of colonial life, but it does give an excellent overview of the 17th century in America with a surprising amount of detail.  The writing style is engaging and not at all difficult, so the book is easy to finish off in a few days.  I would recommend it!	2001-02-03
US	51098906	R2YWRQXV3ZQTAX	0394714369	820524139	Babyhood	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Dated, but a fascinating read	I honestly enjoyed reading this book.  Unlike the majority of books about babies, this one is written for those who enjoy understanding the research behind the advice.  It also contained many ideas and pieces of information that I doubt I would have found elsewhere.  But be forewarned that the book is by no means &quot;unbiased&quot;.  This author has as many opinions as any other- the difference is that she frequently cites the studies that influenced her opinion, which give the reader a better understanding of where she's coming from.<br />On the negative side, this book is older, and not much effort has been made to update it.  For example, I would definitely *not* follow any of the feeding advice, with the possible exception of that pertaining to infants over one year of age.  In addition, the book is written with relatively dense language, that some may find hard to read and fairly dry.<br />To sum up, I used this book mostly for its extensive information on the progress of child development from birth to age two.  I definitely did not agree with all of the author's ideas about child raising, and would recommend it only as a supplemental resource.	2001-01-14
US	51098906	R2NHKAQFC09BPZ	0918477603	242003984	Trojan Horse in the City of God: How Godlessness Crept into the Sanctuary-And How to Thrust It Out Again	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Important work	While this book was written quite a few years ago, it is still a very valuable resource for any Catholic who wishes to be educated about the modern Church.  It covers many of the most destructive intellectual trends in the Church, and does a brilliantly thorough job of destroying these ways of thinking.  At the same time, the style is quite readable, even for those without any extensive background in philosophy or theology (like me).  I recommend it!	2001-01-09
US	51098906	R1HROMN46J6BIF	084230889X	853409913	The Focus on the Family Complete Book of Baby and Child Care	Books	4	59	70	N	N	Mostly a fine book, but not the best choice for everyone	I greatly enjoyed reading this resource, and finished it in a little over a week, despite its length!  It is written in an easy style, but it still has lots of information about kids of all ages.<br />There are two types of parent who are probably *not* going to like this book.  One is the &quot;natural parenting&quot; type, who is interested in home/birth center birth, attachment parenting, etc.  The book is very biased in favor of hospital birth(a big drawback), and has little information about attachment parenting methods.  Those of us with any interest at all in using some or all of these methods should be consulting other books as well.  The second sort of parent who could dislike the book is one who has very strong views about spanking, which the book favors.  Actually, this book takes much more space telling the parent when they should *not* spank their child, but for those who see any physical discipline at all as &quot;brutality&quot; or &quot;violence&quot;, this won't be enough.<br />However, for the Christian parent who wants a single, mainstream reference work for the entire child rearing experience, the book has not only plenty of sound advice and counsel, but also extensive medical and safety information of the most practical sort.  A great investment!	2001-01-09
US	51098906	R21XOEWUOR202S	155850804X	443676803	Good Families Don't Just Happen: What We Learned from Raising Our 10 Sons and How It Can Work for You	Books	3	27	34	N	N	Some good advice, but not what I really need	Now that I've seen all the rave reviews of this book, I feel a bit bad about saying anything negative about it :-).  I can certainly understand what people see in this book- the authors do indeed give some very important principles for raising kids, and they back up their words with some definite success stories!<br />However, I really think this book might be more powerful if it weren't so careful to avoid controversy.  In other words, most of the principles found in the book can be found in other books on child rearing- be an example yourself, respect the child, be positive, read to the kid... the bulk of the book is taken up with this sort of advice which, while certainly true and valid, has been abundantly covered in other sources.<br />To be frank, when I picked up the book I was hoping it would discuss at length how to keep kids protected (but not overprotected!) from the popular culture.  While television and &quot;appropriate&quot; movie choices are covered very briefly, the serious but touchy problems of influencing book and music choices aren't.  What do the Garcia-Prats do?  How do they/will they handle problems with computers, including internet and video games?  Another vitally important issue that is not adequately covered is sexuality- with ten boys, it's an issue they must grapple with at some length. How???<br />This book takes a remarkably sunny view of the outside culture, considering it was published in '97.  Problems with bad schools (e.g. condom pushing and other sex ed woes) are not discussed, though cooperation with the schools and teachers is.  The Garcia-Prats seem to have access to a couple of good schools; any advice for those who do not?  What about problems with bad or unsuitable friends?  Similarly, books and reading are presented as universal goods, without addressing the obvious problem that many books for adults, and even some for teens, are pornographic, easily available at the library, and innocuous in appearance.<br />So as a conclusion, I'll say that while this book is a fairly solid contribution for the general populace, it will not be a complete resource for the parent who wants Christian guidance about some of the worst trends going on in our country today.	2000-11-09
US	51098906	RS7WEVPEVYHIS	0895263211	275167560	Low Fat Lies	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Refreshingly moderate	I really enjoyed reading this book, especially the part about the problems  with low-fat diets (I had already suspected that high-protein diets were  not healthy).  This book takes a great middle road regarding both diet and  exercise- the author even points out that most people aren't going to eat  right 100% of the time!  Very different from the ultra low-fat types like  Mr. Pritikin, who seem to feel that one donut or hot dog will ruin the  ability to stick with their diet (maybe because it's too stringent to begin  with??)  I also appreciate that the author gave good science and evidence  to back his claims- unlike Nathan Pritikin's book, which I think gave poor  evidence for its claims.<br />However, I think the diet itself is still too  limiting for anyone who is enjoying good health and weight.  Granted, the   recipies seem tasty, but eventually I know I would want to go for some  Mexican or old-fashioned American cuisine.  The book would be improved if  it gave some general guidelines for cooking/eating out in a reasonably  healty way with a wider variety of foods.	2000-08-21
US	51098906	R1M1GZWECH3GV3	0028630092	884530432	Betty Crocker's New Cookbook	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A very solid beginner/intermediate book	This is a great little cookbook that was most definitely worth the money!   It gives plenty of basic cooking instruction as well as recipies, and loads  of great photos.  It will not offer  much challenge to an advanced cook,  but then it is not geared  towards that.  Rather, it is ideal for someone  like me- I am good in the kitchen, but there's plenty I could learn.  I  needed a book that would give me fundamentals on everything from how long  to do a roast to how to bake a batch of sugar cookies.<br />Of course, since  this is a basic book the recipies are somewhat limited.  This will not be  the only cookbook that you will ever want to use, especially if you really  like to cook.  Rather, this is a good first cookbook to have, the place to  start your cooking library.  Learn to use this book, then take off from  there with whatever style or cuisine you like!	2000-08-21
US	51098906	R16YUGU1B6JSDY	0688135080	894941652	The Tiger on Your Couch: What the Big Cats Can Teach You About Living in Harmony With Your House Cat	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worthy	This book is a very interesting and educational read for any current or prospective cat owner. It offers some unique insights, for instance seeing the use or non-use of a scratching post in view of the cat's territorial instincts.<br />It is in no way comprehensive, and should be read as a back-up to a more complete guide. As an example, the important issue of de-clawing is not covered at all in this book.<br />For those who do not feel a compulsion to finish a book all the way to the end (I am such a compulsive person, alas), I would suggest the reader skip chapter 10. It has little to do with house cats, being mostly a \\"call to action\\" regarding the state of the tiger worldwide, and a call to use \\"environmental\\" products. While there is nothing wrong with the desires to protect the tiger and the planet, I think this is a little out of place in a book that is supposed to be mostly about the care of house cats.<br />Another weak point is the constant nagging about spaying/neutering. Personally, I will definitely spay/neuter my cat, and I have done so with all my previous cats. I think the vast majority of owners should, since there is unquestionably a cat overpopulation problem, and because it makes for a better pet. But to suggest that only professionals should breed only purebreed cats is excessive. Anyone with a sincere concern for the health and long-term wellbeing of both mother and kittens ought to feel free to breed a cat- provided they take full responsibility for professional health care and for the quality placement of any kittens. Those of us who prefer \\"alley\\" cats, and who don't want to pay hundereds of dollars for a kitten have reason to be grateful to loving and responsible breeders of all stripes.	2000-07-14
US	51098906	R1ZIVPVQ1T2KCK	0926412094	605582394	Fertility, Cycles & Nutrition	Books	4	75	83	N	Y	A worthwhile book	I found this book to contain some good information, some of it not available in other fertility books I've read.  Its biggest drawback is probably its length- it's about 140 pages, and much of that space is spent discussing general nutrition, as well as more controversial topics such as  fertility and night lighting.  I would therefore recommend it as a  supplement to a more comprehensive book, not as the only book to buy.   Women who experience PMS, irregularity or menstruation problems will find  some good help in this book and should probably buy it.<br />This book is  written by a Catholic author and published by the Couple to Couple league,  so it takes a Catholic view on many issues.  Those who cannot tolerate  Catholic thought might not enjoy this book for that reason, as is evident  from a few of the reviews below.  However, the book does *not* discuss any  issue that is not directly related to fertility and/or nutrition.  It will  therefore be very useful to anyone interested in these topics, Catholic or  not.	2000-04-29
US	51098906	RBWMREJVZGEF5	0449906671	603390364	Getting Pregnant: What Couples Need to Know Right Now	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Some useful information, but could be better	I certainly can't say that Dr. Laursen's book doesn't havevalue- there are many practical tips for couples to try, and he doeskeep a hopeful tone through the book that I'm sure any couple having difficulty with conceiving would appreciate.<br />But what bothered me about this book was his lack of respect for the act of procreation in general and embryonic life in particular.  Controversial and morally difficult methods of reproduction like IVF and surrogate motherhood are pushed with a &quot;rah-rah&quot; attitude that ignores serious potential problems (such as frozen embryos and divorce)and important moral questions.  He cheerfuly lets us know that as many as eight emryos might be implanted during an IVF procedure, simply to get *one or two* possible live births.  That's a death rate of 75 to 88 percent- if we're &quot;lucky&quot;.<br />I realize that these procedures are a part of Dr. Laursen's profession, and that I shouldn't be surprised that they are presented in such a book.  I was not bothered so much by the information he gave as by the *attitude*- the idea that children are a commodity and that couples have a right to pregnancy that trumps every other consideration.<br />The possiblity that adoption might be a better route than artifical conception for some couples is not addressed.  This is apparently part of his &quot;everyone can and should get pregnant who wants to&quot; attitude.  But adoption is sometimes a less expensive and emotionally easier option that does not clash with anyone's moral beliefs.  It ought to be acknowledged as the best choice for at least some couples.<br />Fertility medicine has obviously come a long way, but it needs to be confined to healing bodies and solving problems, not to &quot;making babies&quot; as if they were consumer products.  Without intending to do it, this book helps show us why.<br />p.s.  I hope I have not stepped on anyone's toes here with my opposition to artifical conception.  I fully realize that babies conceived by these methods are cherished like all babies.  But I will say again that this book has reinforced my opposition to such procedures.	1999-09-26
