US	51105147	RCX4K4XA5GFSW	1576830454	280252399	The River Within: Loving God, Living Passionately	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Passion of the Trinity is Expressed in Our Hearts	A good friend recommended this book to me.  I bought it and read it slowly over 4 months.  It is an insightful and compassionate description of spiritual formation rooted in the character of the Triune God. It has profound applications to how we relate to God and to one another.<br />There are several significant themes and messages woven throughout the book, which could not be expressed sufficiently in a short review, except to give a short description of a few of them. The theological foundation which Jeff Imbach continues to build on throughout the book is that the passion which is expressed among the persons of the Trinity is the source of our own passion. This becomes the thematic center for the rest of the book as Imbach tries to 'rescue' passion from the chopping block of traditional discipleship.  Passion is not all bad, argues Imbach.  In fact, passion is an essential element in our spiritual formation as we seek to be connected to and formed by a Passionate God.<br />Imbach describes the &quot;Union and Uniqueness&quot; of the Persons of the Trinity and effectively argues that this characteristic of the Godhead expresses itself deeply in our own hearts and lives.  For example, as people we have a longing for &quot;Union&quot;; we desire to be connected to a larger whole, to belong to a body of intimately relating friends.  However, we also have the sometimes competing desire for &quot;Uniqueness&quot;; we long to be recognized as valuable individuals.  For myself, this was the most significant theme of &quot;The River Within&quot;.  I connected well with his description of God here and with his many examples from real life experiences (both his own and others').<br />The image of the &quot;River Within&quot; becomes an important one in the book as Imbach describes the flowing of godly passion in our lives as a river with its source in God.  The &quot;river banks&quot;, then become an important symbol of the necessary boundaries of passion which, if distorted or completely unhindered, can become dissipated or destructive to our spirital lives.  Imbach explains that it is up to us to carefully discern the banks for passion on our own lives.<br />Sometimes the examples and stories became slightly repetitive, which made the book drag a little.  This is especially true while Imbach is pounding on the point that our passions are God-given and God can redeem them as an integral part of our spiritual formation.<br />When I first began to read chapter 12, which describes the role of Creation in our spiritual lives, I was a little uneasy about such an emphasis on nature and our role as stewards, etc.  After finishing the chapter I was still not completely at home with all of the ideas, but I was able to truly appreciate some of his observations about the intimacy and presence of God which are made evident in Creation, and also about our connectedness to the earth.  In fact as my wife and I were celebrating our first anniversary in rural New Hampshire, I took the book along with us during an outdoor hike and we read a section of this chapter together.<br />Imbach brilliantly concludes the book with chapters describing what it looks like to live passionately in community, in relationships, and with God.  It is in these chapters that his wisdom and experience in listening to people becomes most evident.<br />There were times when this book became somewhat of a chore to persevere in, but it was worth the effort.  &quot;The River Within&quot; was definitely good for my soul and I don't doubt that many lives would be transformed and many personal burdens lightened if believers could spend time with Imbach's ideas in this book.<br />After reading &quot;The Sacred Romance&quot; and other books describing the role of passion and &quot;the heart&quot; in Christian Spirituality, this book fit well into this &quot;conversation&quot; (as my friend would call it).  Thanks Rob.ed or completely unhindered, can become dissipated or destructive to our spirital lives.  Imbach explains that it is up to us to carefully discern the banks for passion on our own lives.<br />Sometimes the examples and stories became slightly repetitive, which made the book drag a little.  This is especially true while Imbach is pounding on the point that our passions are God-given and God can redeem them as an integral part of our spiritual formation.<br />When I first began to read chapter 12, which describes the role of Creation in our spiritual lives, I was a little uneasy about such an emphasis on nature and our role as stewards, etc.  After finishing the chapter I was still not completely at home with all of the ideas, but I was able to truly appreciate some of his observations about the intimacy and presence of God which are made evident in Creation, and also about our connectedness to the earth.  In fact as my wife and I were celebrating our first anniversary in rural New Hampshire, I took the book along with us during an outdoor hike and we read a section of this chapter together.<br />Imbach brilliantly concludes the book with chapters describing what it looks like to live passionately in community, in relationships, and with God.  It is in these chapters that his wisdom and experience in listening to people becomes most evident.  <br />There were times when this book became somewhat of a chore to persevere in, but it was worth the effort.  &quot;The River Within&quot; was definitely good for my soul and I don't doubt that many lives would be transformed and many personal burdens lightened if believers could spend time with Imbach's ideas in this book.<br />After reading &quot;The Sacred Romance&quot; and other books describing the role of passion and &quot;the heart&quot; in Christian Spirituality, this book fit well into this &quot;conversation&quot; (as my friend would call it).  Thanks Rob.	2001-12-02
US	51105147	R111GAO7F4X70R	0486250644	550407357	Elementary Turkish (Dover Language Guides)	Books	5	88	89	N	N	My First Turkish Text, And Still The Best Available	Almost 10 years ago I went to Turkey for the first time as an exchange student with the Rotary Club.  I was living with a Turkish family and I was determined to learn the language.  One day I met another American woman in Turkey who spoke fluent Turkish. She sent me home with this book and a few words of advice.  &quot;Elementary Turkish&quot; is truly a classic in the world of Turkish language acquisition.  The book proved to be extremely helpful to me, especially as it gave me grammatical categories for all of the words and phrases that I was learning from the Turks around me.  Lewis Thomas understands the language well, and his book explains it in very readable, but challenging lessons.  After receiving the book, I spent about an hour with it every day for around 3 months.  It was an integral part of my Turkish language acquisition.  <br />Now as a fluent Turkish speaker, I use this book often to help train people who are going to Turkey, either long-term or short-term.  In some of the vocabulary lists and colloquial expressions it is somewhat dated, but overall this short textbook is still the best.  It is packed with helpful vocabulary and language lessons and exercises.  It can be used either to study over a long period of time (as I did), or to peruse for vocabulary and basic grammar (as I have used it to train others).<br />If you have no exposure to spoken Turkish, buy this book along with one of the many cassette tape courses available.  If you plan on learning Turkish in Turkey, then this book is all you need.	2001-11-19
US	51105147	R12P6OKHRP5VKE	0060608765	989291643	Meaning of Jesus, The	Books	5	29	33	N	N	More Than Just A Readable Introduction to the Jesus Debate	Marcus Borg and N.T. Wright have written more than just an introduction or a summary to the Historical Jesus Debate.  Although this book does summarize well the issues surrounding the increasingly controversial &quot;Debate&quot; between 'revisionist' historians/theologians, and more conservative believers, Borg and Wright make this book a significant contribution to the discussion.<br />The 'friendly' tone of the book is particularly striking and gives the reader the sense that these authors are more interested in dialogue than in debate, meaning that each is honestly interested in the contribution of the other, while coming to different conclusions.  Despite this non-combative character of their discussion, Borg and Wright do not minimize the urgency and importance of these issues in the life of the church.<br />Wright's contributions are significantly more compelling than Borg's, while Borg makes some interesting points regarding what symbolic meanings might have been applied to the events surrounding Jesus' life.  Wright, on the other hand, makes excellent arguments for the vital role of the crucifixion and resurrection to the Christian faith.  He does not approach the text, as Borg does, with an anti-supernatural bias.  Wright is also more interested in painting 'the big picture' of the life of Jesus, and His significance in the plan of God than he is  offering token defenses of Christian dogma.  Wright's eschatology is also refreshingly void of sensationalism and speculation.  He is careful to let scripture tell its own story.<br />The final section of the book deals with &quot;Jesus and the Christian Life&quot;, and is particularly good.  Wright brings his previous arguments to conclusion by describing the broad implications of Jesus to our lives.  He begins by describing &quot;the two poles of Christian living in terms of worship and mission&quot;, and continues to elaborate on Jesus impact on our spirituality, daily living, politics, and healing.<br />The 8parts of this book carry the folowing titles with a section from each author:<br />1. How do we know about Jesus <BR>2. What did Jesus do and teach<BR>3. The Death of Jesus<BR>4. &quot;God raised Jesus from the dead&quot;<BR>5. Was Jesus God?<BR>6. The Birth of Jesus<BR>7. &quot;He will come again in Glory&quot;<BR>8. Jesus and the Christian life<br />I am grateful for Borg and Wright's contribution to the &quot;Historical Jesus Debate&quot; with this book, and I recommend it to scholars and students alike.	2001-11-18
US	51105147	R291UJ3FWLEY5Q	9004114653	46840393	1: The Encyclopaedia of the Qur'an (Volume One: A-D)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An Excellent Collection of Current Scholarship in Islamics	The Encyclopaedia of the Qur'an represents the most current knowledge available regarding Islam and Qur'anic Studies.  Jane Dammen Mcauliffe has done an excellent job compiling contributions from an impressive list of scholars.  Andrew Rippin, G.R. Hawting, Patricia Crone, Herbert Berg, Bowering, Beatrice Greundler, and a host of others all weigh in on issues ranging from the Chronology of the Qur'an to its Compilation; and from Exegetical issues to the controversial questions of the Origins of the Qur'an.  Excellent Scholarship marks the first volume's entries on the topics of Arabic Scripts, Language, and Paleography.  It draws on recent research and scholarship, including the &quot;paper grave&quot; of manuscripts discovered in Sana'a Yemen which are currently being analyzed by German Professor Gerhard Puin.  This first available volume covers topics from &quot;A&quot; through &quot;D&quot;, and makes many references to future entries in the volumes which are to follow. While the entries are based on thorough research and academic study, several of the conclusions and observations will be quite controversial in the Muslim community, particularly those which call into question the reliability of Muslim Literary Traditions, and those which are damaging to the traditional understandings of the nature of the Qur'an as a monolithic, unevolved (or even uncreated) source of Divine Revelation.  This volume, and those which follow, are certain to establish themselves as instant classics in the libraries of scholars and academic students of Islam around the world.	2001-11-15
US	51105147	R3MJDBAB4F0E2R	0830822763	240895681	Evangelism Outside the Box: New Ways to Help People Experience the Good News	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A Better Paradigm for Evangelism to This Generation	I'm just finishing up this book, and I'm already excited about its implications in my own style of evangelism.  Richardson seems to articulate what anyone who has been involved in evangelism has probably already suspected... that something is radically changing in our culture which should change the way we approach evangelism.  Richardson isn't saying anything totally new, but his synthesis of the information is what makes this a valuable book.  He describes well the characteristics of a postmodern generation and then outlines the implications for effective outreach.<br />A striking point in the book is the observation that eloquent arguments for the resurrection and the existence of God are often not as compelling as they used to be to a &quot;pre-Christian&quot;.  The urgent questions being asked by postmoderns are not about what is objectively true and verifiable.  Rather they are asking questions of identity and belonging, and Richardson explains how Christianity can answer those questions in a meaningful way to this generation.<br />Richardson's application of Wesley's approach to outreach is also tremendous.  Again he is synthesizing the observations of other brilliant Christian writers, but his application is excellent.  He has adapted Wesley's &quot;Four Steps into God's Kingdom&quot; to be relevant to outreach today. In Richardson's approach these steps are: &quot;Soul Awakening, Community, Conversion, and Transformation&quot;.  The key points here are that people's interest in spirituality can be awakened by strategic events and encounters, and that &quot;belonging comes before believing&quot;.  <br />I have been strongly recommending this book to the evangelism ministry at our church, and they are going to use it.  They are already using Mark Mittleberg's &quot;Building a Contagious Church&quot;, so this should be a valuable supplement to that approach.	2001-09-01
US	51105147	R1BS30OV489AD	0801038596	326738463	Answering Islam: The Crescent in Light of the Cross	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A concise manual for addressing the key issues	Geisler and Saleeb have written a very practical and concise guide for understanding the points of conflict between Christianity and Islam.  The particular focus of the book is how Christianity answers Muslim accusations and objections against it.  While it is in no way comprehensive, each section is well written and contains information which would be immediately practical to anyone interested in the subject.<br />The most valuable contribution that this book makes is in its positive defense of Christian doctrines such as the Trinity, the Deity of Christ, and the authenticity of the Bible.  These sections are written with Muslim objections in mind, making them very useful.  <br />This is a meaty book which is a good read and then a great reference for anyone who is interested in Christian/Muslim apologetics.  Geisler is certainly a trusted name in aplogetics, and his partnering with a former Muslim for this book makes it twice as valuable.<br />While this book does spend some time giving a background to Islam, it is from a decidedly Christian perspective.  In order to understand Islam and Muslims first hand sources are obviously indispensable.  There are countless books written from a Muslim perspective about Islam.  Any one of them would be an excellent companion to this great book.	2001-08-09
US	51105147	R2LYY3DGMO8SG0	0195002105	394744637	The Idea of the Holy	Books	5	91	96	N	N	A daunting but brilliant book focusing on the Divine Mystery	Few theological books have made the impact on the fields of theology and philosophy that this one has.  Its impact and importance are for good reason.<br />&quot;The Idea of the Holy&quot; is not a terribly long book, but it is certainly not a casual or quick read.  It is not aimed at a popular audience, and for many people it will require a dictionary close at hand.<br />In this book Otto embarks on the paradoxical task of describing the incomprehensible qualities of God.  It is not written as a Systematic Theology categorizing doctrines that can be deduced from Scripture.  Rather, it describes philosophically what it means for God to be &quot;wholly other&quot;, or transcendent.  Often the technical language is difficult to process and the ideas are not simple ones to grasp, but still it is worth wrestling with.<br />As Otto describes the Mysterium Tremendum, he examines the emotional response of humans as we encounter God in his Holiness.  The reader is reminded of the Awe-Inspiring God who we claim to believe in and serve.  This is perhaps the most memorable and humbling aspect of the book.<br />Take a copy of this book on a long trip and spend some time with it. Expect it to be difficult and when you're tempted to quit... keep reading!	2001-08-09
US	51105147	R20VJFDS1P8OS5	0824512596	449966998	In the Name of Jesus: Reflections on Christian Leadership	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Short, Simple, and Absolutely Revolutionary	If you applied Evelyn Wood's technique to this book, you could finish it in 10 minutes... and you would probably gain nothing from it.  This is a book to take your time with, think about, and come back to.<br />Nouwen was asked to speak at a conference about &quot;Leadership in the 21st Century&quot; and this book is the text of that speech.<br />The book tells the story of Nouwen's journey from lofty chaplain and teaching positions at Harvard, Notre Dame, and Yale to a &quot;lowly&quot; position as the Pastor at a community for the mentally handicapped.  He uses this experience to outline a radical paradigm for 'leadership' characterized not by ambition and 'upward mobility', but by humility, vulnerability, and servanthood.  <br />The book is a simple one, but the concepts are truly revolutionary and counter-cultural.  This book deserves some real attention.	2001-07-25
US	51105147	RJYN8B9ZQSVXW	0609604228	797118835	Ultimate Portuguese (LL(R) Ultimate Basic-Intermed)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Practical and Reasonably Paced	My wife and I are moving to Brazil for two years this month, and neither of us speak Portuguese.  We plan on spending the first few months of our trip focusing on language learning, but we wanted a head start before we left. So we spent hours in bookstores this week looking for the right program.  We settled on this Living Language set and we're happy with it.<br />We put the first tape in on the way home from the bookstore. The tapes are ONLY Portuguese, which allows you to be saturated with the sounds of the language.  The book lets you follow along with the tape and read the English translations.  Once you've gone through a lesson on the tape and have read the lesson in the book, you can play the tape over and over again without the book to practice pronunciation and memorize the words and phrases.<br />Perhaps what I liked best about this program is that you can use the book without the tape.  The book is a real language textbook which can be read and used without listening to the tape. So, when you can't listen to a tape, you can still be reading dialogues, memorizing vocabulary, and learning grammar.<br />The lessons are paced well, accomodating any level of learner.  If you want to focus on one lesson you can do that easily.  The lessons are broken up into 10 minute or so chunks.  If you want to keep going and soak up several lessons at once you can do that, too.<br />The vocabulary and grammar is immediately practical.  From the very first dialogue you are learning everyday conversation.  It's not just a &quot;phrase book&quot; however since the book also covers the grammar that is introduced in each dialogue.<br />We're happy with Ultimate Portuguese, and I'm sure that it will be a worthwhile investment.	2001-07-25
US	51105147	RND6N7W6JGKGD	0385473079	894338649	The Return of the Prodigal Son: A Story of Homecoming	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Our Identity Is Found In God's Love For Us	&quot;I am God's beloved. I am the one Jesus loves.&quot;  This is the truth which Henri Nouwen carefully articulates in this book with a wonderful artistic style.<br />The narrative centers around Nouwen's experience with Rembrandt's painting by the same name. After seeing a poster of the painting in a friend's office he begins a journey of meditation on the painting, and on the parable from Luke's gospel. His attraction to the painting and the ideas which it invokes lead him to seek out the original in a Russian Museum where he sat for hours contemplating the content, message, and meaning of the painting and the parable.<br />The central spiritual truth upon which Nouwen elaborates in this book is that we are valuable BECAUSE God loves us, and that this 'belovedness' is the core of our identity.  The answer to the question &quot;Who am I?&quot; for Nouwen is &quot;I am the one Jesus loves.&quot;<br />Perhaps the most personally striking idea in this book is that when we are truly grounded in the truth of God's love for us, then we are free to do ministry or service &quot;without using it as proof of our goodness.&quot;  Ministry becomes a response to God's love based on an acceptance of our value in his sight rather than a frantic assertion of our value to God based on some other reason.<br />God does not love us because we are valuable.  We are valuable because he loves us.  While we are tempted to derive our value from our abilities, our performance, or from other people's perceptions of us, God invites us to simply accept the fact of our value based on His enduring love for us.<br />Buy this book.  Read it slowly, and share it with others.	2001-07-19
US	51105147	R2DW56VI75TG04	0385473079	894338649	The Return of the Prodigal Son: A Story of Homecoming	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Our Identity Is Found In God's Love For Us	&quot;I am God's beloved. I am the one Jesus loves.&quot;  This is the truth which Henri Nouwen carefully articulates in this book with a wonderful artistic style.<br />The narrative centers around Nouwen's experience with Rembrandt's painting by the same name. After seeing a poster of the painting in a friend's office he begins a journey of meditation on the painting, and on the parable from Luke's gospel. His attraction to the painting and the ideas which it invokes lead him to seek out the original in a Russian Museum where he sat for hours contemplating the content, message, and meaning of the painting and the parable.<br />The central spiritual truth upon which Nouwen elaborates in this book is that we are valuable BECAUSE God loves us, and that this 'belovedness' is the core of our identity.  The answer to the question &quot;Who am I?&quot; for Nouwen is &quot;I am the one Jesus loves.&quot;<br />Perhaps the most personally striking idea in this book is that when we are truly grounded in the truth of God's love for us, then we are free to do ministry or service &quot;without using it as proof of our goodness.&quot;  Ministry becomes a response to God's love based on an acceptance of our value in his sight rather than a frantic assertion of our value to God based on some other reason.<br />God does not love us because we are valuable.  We are valuable because he loves us.  While we are tempted to derive our value from our abilities, our performance, or from other people's perceptions of us, God invites us to simply accept the fact of our value based on His enduring love for us.<br />Buy this book.  Read it slowly, and share it with others.	2001-07-19
US	51105147	R263TC7TG43YXZ	0060256656	945451465	The Giving Tree	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A Profound Parable of Grace	Two boys, Brennan and Saul, were childhood friends in Brooklyn, New York.  As they grew up and took separate paths, Brennan became a Christian speaker and preacher, and Saul, a Jew, converted to Christianity as well.  Years later upon meeting on the streets of New York,  each man discovered that the other had also found Christ.  In the course of the conversation Brennan asked Saul what he, as a Jew, thought about the person of Jesus.  Saul told Brennan that he would think about it and get back to him the next day.  When they met the next day, Saul, pen-named Shel (Silverstein), told the parable of the Giving Tree to Brennan as the answer to the question of what Jesus meant to him.  Brennan urged Shel to have it published, and it has since become one of the best-selling children's books ever.<br />This is a parable about the boundless nature of the Grace of God.  Significantly Shel chose to write about a &quot;Giving Tree&quot;, while God also chose the Giving Tree of the cross to demonstrate His love for us.  We often come to God with petty request after petty request, sometimes ignoring the tremendous sacrifice that  God has made which enables us to ask for anything at all.<br />There is much symbolism in the book and certainly it has other applications for a broad audience, as parables often do.  This is a life-changing story.  One which should be read to children by adults and to adults by children.  In fact the essence of this story has been told to us by our Heavenly Father for centuries.<br />Buy this book.  In fact buy several copies and give them away.	2001-06-27
US	51105147	R3A1KGJXUUVX60	0801071240	490201461	Let the Nations Be Glad!: The Supremacy of God in Missions	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A Landmark Contribution to Mission Literature	&quot;Missions is not the ultimate goal of the church, worship is. Missions exists because worship doesn't.&quot; This is the opening line of this book, and it is the foundational premise on which it is written.<br />Piper writes about a God who is worth serving, worth going to the nations for, and who is worth suffering for. There is no greater cause in all the world than the glory of God and Piper eloquently describes how Missions is intimately connected to that cause.<br />Perhaps the most striking point in the book is the idea that God is passionate for his own glory. In fact that God is passionately establishing his glory in the nations. It is not that God is in constant need of affirmation, but that He knows that His glory is the &quot;chief end of man&quot;...and of God.<br />The chapter on Suffering is incredible. Piper's writing is as convicting as it is motivating. The reader is left asking the question &quot;Do I believe in a God like this? Do I serve a God who is worth suffering for?&quot;<br />God has honored his church with the privelege of joining Him in his work in the world. Piper is a man who understands this privilege, and who invites us to join Him as well.	2001-06-19
US	51105147	R2T3JI9B9QLOTN	0801099366	209754255	Sitting With Job: Selected Studies on the Book of Job	Books	5	28	28	N	N	An eclectic and insightful collection of articles	Who's going to read a review of an out-of-print book?  But &quot;Sitting With Job&quot; deserves to have some stars next to its title.  I used this book in an excellent class on the book of Job at Biola University taught by my favorite professor there, Dr. Ed Curtis.  <br />The Articles in the book are arranged in two parts.  Part I includes 12 articles under the heading &quot;Overviews of the Book of Job&quot;.  David Clines and Philip Yancey have excellent articles in that section.  <br />Part II includes 22 articles under the heading &quot;Specific Themes and Passages in the Book of Job&quot;.  These articles cover topics like &quot;Mythology and the Book of Job; &quot;Where Job's Comforters Went Wrong&quot;;  &quot;Wisdom in the Book of Job&quot;; &quot;The Theophany of Job&quot;; and &quot;Job: Repentant or Rebellious.&quot;  Mark Littleton's article is among the best in this section.<br />No other book that I've seen offers such a broad and deep presentation of the structure and meaning of the book of Job.  Zuck brings together authors who are not satisfied to simply describe the superficial landscape of Job, but who are also willing to wrestle with the thorny issues that it raises.	2001-06-12
US	51105147	R1ZAT1279IDNA8	0679600124	996904481	Les Misérables (Modern Library)	Books	5	192	198	N	N	There Aren't Enough Stars  for Books Like This.	A few words of advice about Les Miserables...<br />Buy an old copy (am I allowed to say that!).  I found mine in an antique bookstore.  It's an old beat-up hardcover.  It just makes the whole experience more...historic!<br />Dare to read the unabridged edition.  If Hugo could have told this story in fewer words he would have.  Don't cheat yourself out of the real thing.  Charles Wilbour's translation is an excellent one.<br />Take your time with it.  When you get frustrated by lengthy explanations and background information, put it down and come back to it.  But don't give up!<br />Les Miserables is one of the greatest stories every written.  Hugo brings to life such weighty concepts as Grace, Forgiveness, Repentance, and Redemption and Salvation.  The spiritual imagery is very rich.  The interaction between Jean Valjean and the Bishop is absolutely life changing.<br />\\"Jean Valjean my brother: you  belong no longer to evil, but to good.  It is your soul that I am buying for you.  I withdraw it from dark thoughts and from the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God!\\"	2001-06-04
US	51105147	R1AV8T6K1429GU	0679772693	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Character After Character the Story Comes to Life	From my short time with &quot;A Short History of Byzantium&quot;, I can only guess that the original 3 volume work is a brilliant one. Lord Norwich has an excellent grasp of the history of the era. He manages to connect one event to the next as if it were a well written movie. At times the large scale editing and cutting that it must have taken to condense a work of this magnitude is evident in its dizzying pace and sometimes stifled narrative. to What makes the book compelling however, is Norwich's description of characters. He writes about emperors, generals, and rebels as if he were standing in the crowd when they were crowned, thwarted, or killed. A new 'main character'is introduced every few pages and Norwich manages to draw the reader into each one. A 1200 year empire deserves the attention of any student of history, and John Julius Norwich has written a landmark contribution to the subject.	2001-06-04
US	51105147	RXSCRQHSQI279	0891099093	177883844	The Trivialization of God: The Dangerous Illusion of a Manageable Deity	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Crusade to restore Awe and Mystery to the Divine	McCollough's book reads like a captivating sermon.  His foundational premise, that &quot;we prefer the illusion of a safer deity, and so we have pared God down to more manageable proportions,&quot; is eloquently devoloped.  This is a book which moves the soul to want a God who is bigger, and less safe than the one which our culture tries to peddle to us today.  <br />His book takes an interesting turn in the last four chapters.  The Chapters are as follows:<br />1.  The Trivialization of God; 2.  A Pantheon of Deities; 3.  In the Temple of Idols; 4.  The Self-Revelation of God; 6.  Consuming Fire; 7.  Conversion into Community; 8.  Community of Worship; 9.  Community of the Word; 10. Community of Love;<br />So chapter 7 makes a seemingly awkward transition on the surface.  The content flows, however, and the transition is an important one, spiritually.  The idea of Community drives the last portion of the book.  There is a very compelling image which McCollough borrows from Donald Baillie in chapter 7:<br /> t is &quot;a tale of God calling his human children to form a great circle ... In that circle we all ought to be standing, linked together with lovingly joined hands, facing toward the Light in the centre, which is God...But instead of that, we have, each one, turned our backs upon God and the circle of our fellows, and faced the other way, so that we can see neither the Light at centre nor the faces on the circumference...That is what is wrong.&quot;<br />This a book well worth reading and sharing with others.  It has been a great tool in small group settings.  I've shared many chapters of this book with friends, and various groups.	2001-05-17
US	51105147	R2WJAYP6B9NVOM	0062517090	716567799	Ruthless Trust: The Ragamuffin's Path to God	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The &quot;next steps&quot; of accepting God's love	Brennan Manning has written an excellent new book to complement his theme of &quot;embracing the unconditional love of God&quot;.  Ruthless Trust is eloquent and soul-gripping.  Much of the material is not terribly different from his other books (particularly Ragamuffin Gospel), but it is written to address the more specific call of LIVING in uncompromising trust in God.  <br />After spending a few minutes with this book , I found my idea of God refreshed and expanded.  Brennan has a contagious belief in a God who is beyond our wildest imaginations.<br />One of the most significant ideas in this book is that &quot;trust is our gift back to God.  In fact He finds it so enchanting that He died for love of it.&quot;  God as the Ageless Romancer comes alive in Brennan's writing.<br />I've been using this book in my interactions with several people that I meet with one on one, and it has been profoundly impacting.	2001-04-23
US	51105147	R145KVZG15E7RR	0800631277	870578228	When the Powers Fall: Reconciliation in the Healing of Nations	Books	5	17	19	N	N	a brilliant continuation of wink's material on &quot;The Powers&quot;	This book expounds on Wink's analysis of  &quot;Jesus' ethic of nonviolence for today&quot;.  Specifically dealing with what happens when authoritarian regimes come to an end, and a new &quot;democratic&quot; system emerges.  He tackles complex issues such as Domination, Reconciliation, and the role of Apology in the modern political arena.  It is a very eloquent and gracious treatment of the subject in a relatively short work (66 pages).	2001-04-19
US	51105147	RH1XCRUS4AKPP	0060684127	470924188	The Knowledge of the Holy: The Attributes of God: Their Meaning in the Christian Life	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Tozer Understands the Character of God	Often our spiritual growth can be described in terms of something new we are learning about the character of God.  Although information alone will not transform us, true information which we seek to integrate into our lives can be an excellent starting point for growth.  Pound for pound no other book contains such powerful descriptions of the attributes of God.  The &quot;Insights per Square Inch&quot; rating is off the charts on this one!  <br />The first chapter &quot;Why We Must Think Rightly About God&quot; is absolutely amazing.  Tozer writes &quot;What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us.&quot;  The rest of the book is an application of that principle.<br />Each chapter begins with a profound prayer and ends with an appropriate hymn or poem, making this book abundantly readable.  I've used this book on dozens of occasions in my own ministry, and have encouraged (or assigned) many people to read it for themselves.	2001-04-19
US	51105147	R26VDDRBOGVLM2	0849914566	541214998	The Safest Place on Earth	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent book about &quot;Spiritual Community&quot;	&quot;The Safest Place on Earth&quot; provides keen insight into our need to know and be known by others in a &quot;spiritual community&quot;.  Crabb brilliantly describes the beauty of this kind of connection with other and also adeptly outlines the many roadblocks which stand in the way of our entering into this type of community which is marked by &quot;turning our souls toward one another&quot;.  The book balances theory and theology with practical application.  This book will certainly not do the work of community for you, but it will help to identify many of the issues and categories that will help you to get there.  This book about Spiritual Community is a timely vision for the church in North America in an era when anonymity, consumerism, and individualism are closely guarded idols.	2001-04-19
US	51105147	R6TT8OOXGFX5C	0801090962	706444820	The Essence of the Church: A Community Created by the Spirit	Books	5	20	20	N	N	If six stars were possible...	Van Gelder has written an extremely important and profoundly insightful book about the church. He has an excellent understanding of North American Christianity and the cultural temptations which have shaped the current models for church.  He lays out a foundation for the church as a christ-centered missional community.  This book is rich in theology and philosophy and leads the reader to very practical conclusions about how we might &quot;do church&quot; differently.  This is not a step-by-step method for the average church to apply to its existing programs.  In fact it raises paradigm-shifting questions that speak to very foundational issues regarding the nature and purpose of the Body of Christ.  It is a must read.	2001-04-17
US	51105147	R1DM51Q1AXU9B6	0875524737	388551131	Muslims and Christians at the Table: Promoting Biblical Understanding Among North American Muslims	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Balanced Approach to Ministry to Muslims	The authors have done an excellent job of re-centering our priorities in ministry to Muslims.  They focus on friendship and understanding as the keys to effective minstry.  The book has a healthy balance of theology and history with practical ministry applications.  At Biola University we have used their models for a continuing relationship with Muslims in our area.	2001-04-17
US	51105147	RH13SBALX2U2Y	0684871793	272714040	The End of Days: Fundamentalism and the Struggle for the Temple Mount	Books	3	19	36	N	N	Insight Clouded by Bitterness	Gorenberg brings to the surface issues of great concern in our time: namely, religious fundamentalism, Middle East politics, and the Temple Mount.  He raises legitimate concerns about the ill-placed fervor of some fundamentalists, but his bitter tone unnecessarily clouds his approach.  He uses arrogant cynicism when compassion would be much more effective.  The effect of his writing is to downplay the role of faith and truth in these issues.  It seems that Gorenberg is riding the pendulum too far in an opposite direction.	2001-04-17
US	51105147	R1FQNRUK2544RG	0830822690	516364912	Mack & Leeann's Guide to Short-Term Missions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Stands out in the crowd of Short Term Missions literature	Mack and Leeann's guide is definitely a valuable addition to the newly emerging flood of books about Short Term Missions.  What makes their contribution distinct is their understanding of Short Terms as a valuable part of God's mission to the world, rather than simply as a &quot;farm league&quot; for potential long-term missionaries, or as a way to envigorate a stagnant youth group.  STM's are more than light entertainment for bored high-school students, and Mack and Leeann communicate this effectively and practically in this concise and readable guide.  Chapter after chapter contain stories from their own experiences which also make this book unique.	2001-04-17
US	51105147	R3RJXK0C1G68L0	0891096388	582271116	Connecting: The Mentoring Relationships You Need to Succeed (Spiritual Formation Study Guides)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very practical with solid foundations	Stanley and Clinton have written a very practical guide to developing mentoring relationships.  By addressing several kinds of mentoring (from intentional discipleship to passive mentorship) they have digested sophisticated theory into reasonable methods.  Throughout the book they also offer their own personal experiences as examples of the principles they wish to bring out, which adds a very readable flavor.  At times the authors seem to treat the topic of relationships with a sterile pragmatism, which is my only complaint about the book.  Perhaps Stanley and Clinton would do well to spend time reading Larry Crabb's book by the same name!  Overrall, I appreciated this book and I am using some of the principles in my own ministry at Biola University.	2001-04-17
US	51105147	R1RFHL39M5M2IP	0805461000	520796137	Creating Community: Deeper Fellowship Through Small Group Ministry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A practical place to start	Martin and McIntosh have contributed to the library of small group literature with a very hands-on, &quot;nuts and bolts&quot; approach to the topic.  They offer some philosophy and theology to bolster their approach, but not much.  However, where this book lacks in philosophical justification, it makes up in practical, realistic suggestions for actually implementing a small group ministry.	2001-01-31
US	51105147	R189YK1NW5NO6R	156563179X	294621127	The Church Comes Home	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Critical questions about the nature of the church	A practical survey of the house church movement.  Without bitterness  toward traditional models of church, Banks introduces a refreshing model  for the household of faith which has its roots in the first century.  It is  a radical concept for many American Christians because it stands in such  stark contrast with the more individualistic, consumer driven model for  church which has taken  center stage in Western Culture.	2000-08-08
US	51105147	R2VP6VC7AVFP3O	0385148038	840750121	The Wounded Healer: Ministry in Contemporary Society	Books	5	8	13	N	N	A welcomed focus on the health of the minister	Henri Nouwen's 'Wounded Healer' offers profound insight into the condition of the world in which we minister.  He had his finger on the pulse of our  modern era.  This book is not a training manual for the evangelistic  preaching of the gospel, but it maintains a welcomed focus on the health of  the minister.  The 'wounded healer' concept conflicts greatly with the  model of the 'bullet-proof preacher'.  It is a philosophy of vulnerability  and honesty as the foundation for ministry.	2000-07-18
