US	51107805	R21IY34J3GEVLA	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	4	44	126	N	N	Major Media: An Industry in Decay	In the book \\"Bias A Veteran CBS Reporter's Account of how the Media Distorts the News By Bernard Goldberg\\", a life long Democrat, blew the whistle on the TV networks. He provided vivid detail on numerous personal examples as a network insider. In Slander, there are more than a thousand examples of liberal bias with 780 footnotes sighting the documentation. Another book of examples is on the way by this author based on the C-Span book notes interview with Brian Lamb. Liberal bias is an hourly experience, but these are the most egregious. As lawyer she thinned it down to the examples that make it a devastating case against the management of these publicly traded companies. She was a clerk at a federal appeals court and worked at a major NYC law firm. To deny the media bias would require a steely commitment bad management. Coulter uses colorful, bombastic editorial comments between her facts and sometimes the bitterness is almost unnerving. Somebody has to be upset, given the bias that has developed.  <br />The owners of media shares are only beginning to understand the extent the liberal view dominates the media. For seven consecutive decades, the media's liberal bias has steadily grown to the current situation that it has become a destructive force for the major media companies. Consumers are leaving the TV networks, major magazines and newspapers in a meaningful steady trend. The consumer base will decline to the point that the media companies will experience major management shake ups and investors will loss confidence in the Oligopoly profits they have enjoyed. It's not just the internet and talk radio as Coulter contends, it is the product that major media companies are offering.  As any diligent researcher experiences the media get many of the facts wrong. It is not just liberal bias. The facts are blatantly wrong. The product has become inferior. For example, the Wall Street Journal has been loaded with factual errors for decades. The cable TV stock market shows are a joke when it comes to factual effort. For those of us that need to have the facts right, we have learned to distrust any offering by any major media. It is more than just liberal bias they have become bad products unworthy of consumer trust and support. Why do many individuals launch into emotional arguments over politics that have little or no factual basis? Largely, because the major media outlets do the same. This damages our culture. Increasingly, people are turning to other sources<br />The bias would be easy to fix if the management of the major media companies wanted to solve the problem they are facing. As Coulter documents, the media aggressively hires liberal staffers, bureaucrats and even Democratic elected officials. IT IS EXTREMELY RARE THAT REPUBLICANS ARE HIRED. Conceptually, that should be reversible, but what do you do about the culture that tolerates an inferior product on the basic facts.  Many consumers are oblivious to the fact that the media aggressively supports liberal politicians and agendas and tears down conservatives. As Coulter details, in classic propaganda methods, lies are repeated with such great frequency that the average person believes it must be true. If you are an investor in any major media companies, you had better be very concerned. Media are obviously very poorly managed companies. The greatest managerial sin is to ignore your customers. They have done so in spades. Coulter provides information that conservative read far more books per person than liberals do. This is all part of the same trend. You drop bad products and buy good products. There is little difference from what foreign cars did to domestic cars. There is one important difference. The first amendment will not allow government tampering with the market place.<br />The media is nicely protected by the first amendment and that is just fine. But the media is not protected from its customers and that is just fine. While it may be hard to believe that decadesof consumer abuse can be stopped, some how the American people seen to have a way of eventual understanding. When the tide turns and consumers bailout to the Internet they will not be easy to win back. Goldberg describes reporters and editors as \\"total dunces when it comes to economics\\" (page 217 in his book). It would appear that managers of media companies suffer from the same malady.	2003-01-15
US	51107805	R1XLDWFW1DSIVE	0446527564	195887579	First Among Equals: The Supreme Court in American Life	Books	5	10	12	N	N	High Court Analysis With Out Equal	How and why the Supreme Court impacts our lives is exposed. The negative impacts are great. Unfortunately, the book details numerous instances where even the Rehnquist court leaps above the constitution (a contract between the people and the government) and becomes the constitution in ways that a majority of citizens would be in opposition-if informed. This book may start the monumental task of informing. Hence, the title of the book. At the same time a significant minority favors the liberties and physical safety lost through the court. On page 184 is the following sentence. \\"The world of appellate judging is light years away from the realities of law enforcement on the street.\\" In so many words, the observation is made about the high court in many other areas.<br />The people speak most powerfully to the government through the amendment process. Since the first ten amendments, the bill of rights, amendments have averaged one every 15 years. Amendment requires three quarters of the state legislatures to approve-- this is to limiting. This constraint could be modified by amendment or more unnerving-eliminated.<br />Considering the subject this book is shockingly easy to read and bursting at the seams with meaningful insights and authority. Decades of experience (in, around and before the high courts) entitles Starr respect on the subject. On Amazon.com the professional reviewer Ben Fein says: \\"Kenneth W. Starr's credentials for examining the U.S. Supreme Court are matchless.\\" Clerk to Chief Justice Burger, solicitor general, five years on court of Appeals, practicing before the Supreme Court are the highlights of his authority. Reviewers that leap at the opportunity to brand the author of political right wing bias are not serving you well. No one is obliged to read only one book on the subject; this book should be on everybody's short list of worthy books on recent history. This book is not about Ken Starr. The book is about what the supreme court has been doing toyou and other citizens and why you should care.<br />The individuals on the Rehnquist court are discussed in considerable detail. On average one or two justices are appointed each four-year presidential term. Once on the court their views frequently change defying presidential ability to influence the long-term. The changed Senate view toward rejecting nominees for political reasons may suffer the same fate. He observes that in the short run, objective review of the nominees has suffered.<br />Ken Starr shows us how the Supreme Court carved out its power over the law of the land. In chapter 5 (Religion in the Public Square.), Starr helps one understand how the supreme court, has taken its tortured journey in trying to define the First Amendment segment on religion. \\"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\\" The supreme court's micro management of religion issues at the lowest local level takes some explaining as the book does. The effort may not be satisfactory to you. It appears to be the way it happened. Polls show that most people are religious in some form though frequently not participating in and organized religion. Religion studies are about seeking the unanswerable questions that are on every persons mind with usually searing interest. We have seen that the unprepared tend to leap at literal interpretations of ancient texts for easy answers. There ought to be a way to allow for the study of the seven great religions generally at an early level in our schools. This reviewer suspects the reckless ban now in place will not last.<br />The first amendment rights of the press are well articulated and deeply established in law and in USA culture. While the major media feigns accuracy in reporting, it goes no further than the immediate facts and leaves its premises and biases intact. One can dream of the day when the average citizen understands this protected and exalted position set forth in theconstitution for the most lowly of media outlets and the most exalted.  When most understand the rule of reader beware, much cultural progress could be made. As this book observes there is little room to see it otherwise under the constitution as it has been interpreted. The tyranny of the press will remain unchecked except by the consumer turning away from each entity one by one. While the press seems to have as a primary goal to tear down individuals in and out of the government and sell conspiracy and intrigue for the sake of readership, its potential for good were it more deeply informed remains considerable. It has had its periodic great moments in history. Moments that could come more frequently with a more meaningful education then journalism by most reporters.<br />The Supreme Court is trying to find that line of distinction between what the media does in its everyday treatment of \\"news\\" and information disseminated during a political campaign. The Court seems to be grabbing onto the slogan \\"money is not speech\\". The trouble with that slogan is that the media dissemination of speech also has to be paid for by the media owners or indirectly the consumers of media. Neither court nor congress has the lofty god like ability to define good money from evil money. If the press can speak with out being accountable to any one other then another media form, surely another source of speech should be held to no higher standard then being accountable to media disclosure and harassment. The chapter on politics, money and the first amendment is exquisitely timely.<br />My main complaint it lacks a solid explanation for the courts commitment to stare decisis as opposed to setting rulings right where the current court sees it differently. After all it is the highest court in the land. Numerous other topics are detailed in the book. School vouchers, separation of church and state, Gore Vs Bush, exclusion of evidence, abortion, and affirmative actions are a few. Gerrymandering to create minority safe congressional districts is fascinating and raises many questions. This book is a high quality offering on vitally important issues by someone that reveres the Supreme Court.	2003-01-05
US	51107805	R28THCUFVR1XGG	1879505541	917442803	Comic Insights: The Art of Stand-Up Comedy	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Somber Study of Comedy	In the first fifty pages Ajaye provides strongly written advise worth reading several times over particularly if you are well into the process of performing. How to study your favorite comics and still be true to your self is an outstanding section.<br />As comics write and talk about stand up comedy business, the struggles to break into a living wage level are displayed as mind numbing.  The world is full of people that are tearing you down for their own entertainment both on and off the stage. Your desire to succeed must be massive to overcome the grinding down. For each and everyone comic that has opened up, they have described standup as really hard work. This book may depress you if you are thinking about a life in comedy. This is not a motivational book. It is more of a get tough or get out road map. Entertaining the reader does not happen in this book.<br />One great insight in the Richard Jeni interview is worth the price of the book. There are three equal parts to performing your own material: written construction, body gestures and facial expression. You have to work on all three with equal commitment.<br />Interviewing the very successful comedians is very smart. The 17 famous comedian interviews could have been the heart and soul of the book. The interviews should have been better written. With his incredible access to famous comedians Ajaye blew this chance to work at creating a classic on comedy. Where is the editor? My point is the following. In the book Success Secrets of the Motivational by Michael Jeffreys the author gets deep into the mind and art of each interviewee's work. He then edited it down to a very powerfully written book. With loads of exact quotes-each carrying great poignancy. In Ajaye's defense, I suspect that the interviews are lightly edited to remain true to the interview. It is still the lessor skill compared to a strongly worked book. Who wants to read court testimony? Where's the Beef?  I hope Ajaye takes another shot at writinganother book.<br />If you are already funny you want to read this book. It would not be my first recommendation. My rank order follows: 1. Judy Carter's The Comedy Bible 2. Step by Step to Stand Up Comedy by Greg Dean and 3. Did I Ever Tell You About the Time by Grady Jim Robinson. Fourth would be this book. The first book is critical to developing the foundation on how to write stand up.	2002-12-11
US	51107805	R2UOVZVPGBVZ7S	0879757051	724452350	Wealth of Nations (Great Minds)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Adam Smith A Brave Man	In his day monarchies, emerging democracies, business people and government employees were profoundly inept in the affairs of economics, trade and taxation. We have come a long way. Now governments are simply inept including the USA government. When you compare the errors in governmental affairs that he reviewed more than two hundred years ago to the mistakes and wrong governmental policies of today there is considerable reason for optimism.<br />What a damning review of governmental affairs he wrote. This is the predominant reason for reading this book. Secondarily, to trace the development of economic thought. Adam Smith was one of the greatest pioneers in the science of economics. There are areas where we now know he was in error.  Science content of modern economics is more profound than most observers are willing to admit. If you just want to learn about economics you would be well served to first read more current economists. In modern times, Milton Friedman has played a similar role. Again there is that radical urgency to place Friedman in the conservative pile before they decide the correctness of his thought. The legacy of critically reviewing the errors of democratic governments as well as repressive governments will hopefully be kept alive and well. Much is left to be done-- even in the USA. A very exciting question remains what happens when the repressive leaders of China realize that good economic policy and political freedom are so deeply intertwined that there repression is truly doomed. Will the end be destructive or positive. It is surely coming.<br />Similarly in the USA and other developed nations, as more people learn economics on the path to greater involvement in business, investing and entrepreneurship one would expect increasing rebellion against the reckless of policies by politicians and the uninformed contentions of the media. There are many helpful books some I have recently reviewed that can broaden ones understanding of governmental failings in economic policy.<br />While everybody would benefit from more knowledge about economics, the basic shortcomings of the media and politicians is of critical concern. It is no surprise that reviewers of economics related books have to rush to place any book either in the conservative pile or the liberal pile. Why or how one decides to place Adam Smith in the conservative pile, is surely the sickness of political views over logic. While it is unfortunate that the Great Minds Series does not disclose that this is an abridged edition, most readers will find this is more than enough to read.lings in economic policy. <br />While everybody would benefit from more knowledge about economics, the basic shortcomings of the media and politicians is of critical concern. It is no surprise that reviewers of economics related books have to rush to place any book either in the conservative pile or the liberal pile. Why or how one decides to place Adam Smith in the conservative pile, is surely the sickness of political views over logic. While it is unfortunate that the Great Minds Series does not disclose that this is an abridged edition, most readers will find this is more than enough to read.	2002-08-26
US	51107805	RQUCJ80PM6JNX	0071342141	763601876	Did I Ever Tell You About the Time: How to Develop and Deliver a Speech Using Stories that Get Your Message Across	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Ethos or Spiritual Content of Story Explained	Excellent book to read on public speaking. I have read and reviewed on Amazon 37 public speaking books. This book is in the top five that I would recommend. The book is very easy to read yet the author is aggressively analytical about what makes a good story that would be effective in a speech. He traces his early thoughts on what makes a good story to his more recent fleshed out analysis. What makes some stories grab you and others boring? Read this book. Stories of mythology are very old and still make connections deep in the soul. Robinson explains the ingredients of what makes these stories great. In his view, there is a universal theme or structure to the good stories. The hero has separation from his group, initiation and then return or integration. You might think of it as a template for making your own classical story for modern times. He does a stellar job on helping the reader search for and develop what might become your signature stories. The book one of those word of mouth success stories as the Amazon sales rank keeps climbing.	2002-08-19
US	51107805	R21AZZJOXUA4SA	015661930X	166289232	Money Mischief: Episodes in Monetary History	Books	5	34	42	N	N	Friedman�s Case Against the Government Is Crystal Clear	Imagine a grand winning case that is laid before the Supreme  Court to change the course of modern life around the world. Friedman starts at the very beginnings of money and traces its evolution in copious detail. As proceedings finally reach the summation which is the final chapter: &quot;Monetary Policy in a Fiat World.&quot; I see the court in a unanimous wonderment over the masterful job that has been done by Friedman. Well, the court required is public opinion--- a bit more cumbersome.<br />In any nation at any point in modern history, inflation comes from only one source the national government, not by some physical event, war or deficit spending. He details how the cause of inflation is growing the money supply faster than the output of goods and services. In his fabulous review of money he chronicles the centuries of price stability that came to an end with the creation of paper money. This fiat money is not backed by a precious metal and it has spread becoming the only remaining currency in the world. He does not argue for the return to a precious metal standard as some have misrepresented.<br />He provides details in country after country of how governments hallucinate that the citizens will not blame the government. Inflation directly benefits the government at the expense of the citizens. In addition to the impact on your liquid assets, the government debt is paid back or refinanced with far less valuable inflated dollars. He shows how tax cuts only giving back the tax increases that come from bracket creep in an inflationary environment. Finally. People and the financial markets quickly learn that interest rates have to compensate for inflation plus a real above inflation.<br />In current times this means government ten year bond rates of six to eight percent or more. The last ten years was the most ideal time in a century to control inflation. However, inflation was still three to five percent per year. The only logical assumption is that in the next ten years inflation is more likely to be near five percent or more. The historical real return required on government bonds is viewed as about three percent hence the total yield of six to eight percent. Currently, it is slightly below the range. Home mortgages will tend to be a couple percent higher than the government bond. In the simplest terms, had the Federal Reserve controlled inflation to zero, mortgage rates would be half what they are today. Since Greenspan went into the job committed to zero inflation like no other Fed Chairman, there will be no realistic basis for trusting in any potential Federal Reserve policy to eliminate inflation. It would take many years of proof before bond markets would believe any such policy. Because of money mischief we are stuck with high interest rates for a very long time. Thanks to our Federal Government and no one else. The blame could not be more clear.<br />Many governments have fallen including democracies over the matter of inflation. As USA citizens learn about inflation, it follows that political views will change. One of Friedman's most valuable contributions is the mathematical proof and imperial evidence collection that a little inflation does not help reduce unemployment. It worsens employment. Specifically, while 3% inflation is a smaller crime against the people than 10% inflation, it is still a crime with no redeeming virtue. This is not a matter of theory or political philosophy. Thanks largely to Friedman, the proof is in and the public debate should draw to a close. <br />The crowning moment of the book is when he details the observations that fiat money as a global money system is only a few decades old and it remains to be seen if governments can be harnessed by citizens to stop inflation. Friedman causes us to appreciate that there is only one place to draw the line. That is at zero inflation. The wreckage of inflation is not just in the aggregate economy, the low income and the retired. The mismanagementof money in the case of the USA by the Federal Reserve eventually reeks havoc in the securities markets. While Friedman is the Federal Reserves most articulate and worthy critic, his goal is to strengthen the spine of  the Federal Reserve by educating the public and the government. After reading this book you are likely to see the senators that rant that &quot;only they care about the unemployed and the Federal Reserve must now and always pump up the money supply&quot; as at best badly misinformed.<br />To label Friedman a conservative  or a libertarian economist as some reviewers do is to suggest that you can dismiss the authors views as not mainstream and suspect. This convention has clearly crossed over from the liberal major market media of modern times. It is truly dastardly to degrade the standing of Milton Friedman. His great works should command everyone's study and one should allow your views to be challenged simply on the merits of Friedman's work. A Nobel Prize is not awarded as the result of some game. Friedman's contributions to the modern world are profound.	2002-06-13
US	51107805	RRH5IG4QDCDCV	0471442771	668051421	Against the Dead Hand: The Uncertain Struggle for Global Capitalism	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Nonfiction Does Not Get Any Better Than This Book.	An extremely good discussion of the historical passion for centralized government from about 1880 to current times. Since the madness for large national governments was preceded by centuries of global free trade, the author labels the century plus long period that may now be ending the era of \\"Counter-industrialization\\". The subtitle \\"The Uncertain Struggle for Global Capitalism\\" clearly establishes the author's view that the reversal of the delirium for centralized government is far from over. The impediment of dictatorships, socialism and even the USA's form of centralized government have constrained and penalized the world's economy. The considerable damage was from tariffs, quotas and subsidies. It is not about the fall of Communism as one reviewer contends. <br />The book is about a global hysteria for centralized government that grew out of the dramatic technology changes in the 18th century and the related sudden rise of successful large companies. While the success of these large organizations came from new technologies, massive numbers of citizens and leaders falsely leapt to the conclusion that success came from huge centralized organizations. His review of Germany, France, United Kingdom, help one understand how so many around the world, particularly underdeveloped countries and even the USA had a sympathetic hope and belief that Russia's communism or some form of socialism may be an alternative. Government leaders, even in the democratic countries, did great damage to many nations by building government regimentation into public services, business regulation and particularly international trade roll backs and constraints. Each individual nation developed the desire to strengthen war making advantages by increasing self sufficiency that seriously reversed economic benefits of trade. Nationalism in trade by tariffs and quotas slowed worldwide economic growth, contributed significantly to the Great Depression and was a horrible contributor to the many majorwars not just WW I and WW II.<br />His insights into false economic thinking that struggles to mislead leaders and citizens to this very day is very instructive. The book's title \\"Against the Dead Hand\\" indicates his conviction that while these views did not die with communism and other  left wing passions they are nonetheless the remnants of failed governmental systems and views. USA government leadership, the press and business would be well served by reading this book. This book is about history and politics with a very small amount of basic economics.<br />The vast majority of underdeveloped countries are intellectually trapped in the thinking patterns of the counter-industrialization according to Lindsey. This leaves then with little near-term hope. It, also, helps one understand how the United Nations majority can remain so misguided on where the global society is headed. The great leap forward is available to any nation that embraces the rule of law, property rights and a stable democracy according to Lindsey. Their thought is currently so poisoned by counter industrialization that little near term hope can be divined at this time.<br />Lindsay makes his arguments in clumsy ways. Perhaps it his legal training. Frequently, he sends no signals as to the contention that he is going to make. The book is damaged by his presumption that readers must struggle with his desire to not be promptly understood. He is not using complex concepts rather using language in complex ways. Their is little in this book that will be hard to understand. There is not a lot of deep thought in the book. There is a lot of first class research and evaluation. The book suffers from discussing economic issues with a seeming utter fear that if the discussion is assisted by economic reasoning something bad is going to happen. He assumes that readers should know the details of why international trade is so powerfully good for the world economy and is a win win situation for all sides. Lindsey avoids economic analysis like the plague. Having read some of his biting reviews of other books on globalization, it seems only fair that he is assisted by similar directness in ones review. Cato would have been better served by seeking a more readable book for this extremely important topic from this author. He was the man for the job. He just blew it when it comes to readability and completeness on the economic analysis. If you don't have much economic knowledge you will probably resist the main thrust of this book. To distrust the conclusions of this book would be a tragedy. That risk to the reader exists since the author avoids the appropriate economic analysis. Like very few other authors Lindsey has a firm grasp on the importance in understanding that we do not have much ability at forecasting the future. Governments fail profoundly. Free markets persistently lead us in the right general direction. I very much believe his assertions are correct, but there is no book that I can point to that would help you understand how right Lindsey is on this point. The bottom line remains that the historical review of how the hysteria for vast centralized governments developed and evolved makes this a fantastic book. One of the best I have ever read.	2002-06-10
US	51107805	RJK5BRDEQ6FI7	0471388823	691092507	Getting Started in Speaking, Training, or Seminar Consulting	Books	3	75	77	N	N	Low On The List	Bly used a lot of fluff and padding throughout this booksuch as lists, ultra simple forms, notes on other peoples presentations. Finally, the last 100 pages are filler lists that have little to do with the advertised purpose of the book.  It is extremely easy to read as the thought content is low. To many topics are covered and with little substance. A good editor could cut the text to a third its size and lose little substance. After cutting the text to a third and dropping the near frivolous lists you would be left with less than 50 pages of material worthy of a competing book.<br />For me one paragraph was worth more than the price of the book. I have read and reviewed on Amazon 35 books on speaking in the last 18 months. That qualifies me as an obsessive learner or researcher. When Bly pointed out that professional speakers are more about intense up-to-date research than platform skills, it is an awakening. You get paid to study provided you find a market for your subject. One of the most famous motivational speakers said that he still spends more than 50 hours preparation for each client speech. Clearly, a speaker based on specific expertise would prepare considerably more. The fee per hour expended would be an unromantic number for most professional speakers.<br />Two books that are better for getting started in higher level professional speaking are as follows: Speaking for Profit and Pleasure by William D. Thompson. Speak and Grow Rich by Dottie Walters. If you are lacking in a topic for developing expertise and likely to spend considerable time in the training market for a public seminar company Blys book may be the place to start your study.	2002-05-28
US	51107805	R1HIXIDC4E0XF9	0325001790	238614747	Step by Step to Stand-Up Comedy	Books	4	14	18	N	N	An Excellent Book	An excellent book but not as good as: The Comedy Bible  From Stand-Up to Sitcom : The Comedy Writer's Ultimate How-To-Guide by Judy Carter. It is still worth reading after or with the Carter book. Both books breakdown joke structure (Setup +Attitude +Topic +Premise +Act out) but Carter does a dramatically better job-especially on attitude. Carter's book is twice as big and at a lower price. It has more content or specificity page for page. There is more energy and conversational feel to the Carter Book. Dean regularly gets wordy and does not have Carter's to the point and hard hitting style. There are plenty of reasons to buy both books. Dean has an excellent chapter on playing points of view and two good chapters on rehearsal. Initially, it feels like his method turns rehearsal into an ordeal. His goal is to help separate your internal critic from the creative flow. For those that have used a microphone sparingly, that chapter may be helpful. Excellent chapters on performing and improving your act read well. The book ends with an upbeat emphasis that in comedy-rehearsal, editing and performing (with or with out compensation) are the enduring keys to success.	2002-05-23
US	51107805	R173S2XILSK0F9	1577570235	640033687	Inspire Any Audience: Proven Secrets of the Pros for Powerful Presentations	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Less Than It Appears	If you do long seminars especially all day, this is the best book for such a developing professional speaker that I have read. If you are looking to build a strong 10 to 30 minutes inspiring and/or motivational speech this is definitely not the book for you. If that is what you are looking for then you want Success Secrets of the Motivational Superstars : America's Greatest Speakers Reveal Their Secrets by Michael Jeffreys. Furthermore, Jeffreys is the best overall book on becoming a great speaker. If you are serious about speaking performance you must read this book. If you want to see what an exceptionally well research book looks like read Jeffreys. It is getting harder to find so don't delay. Indirectly Jeffreys shows you how to research by example. Professional speaking is about being a first class expert. Only then develop an entertaining and humorous format and delivery. Or you could shoot for the lower rung of just being funny. Unfortunately, just being an expert does not put you on the ladder.<br />With the name Zig Ziglar-- his business associate-- all over this book my hopes were to high. The title (Inspire Any Audience)  is overdone. Inspire is a misrepresentation. Keep them interested would be more accurate. Page 121 he advises avoiding words like certainly, positively and others. If the word any is not a violation then it will require a Clinton like explanation for the word \\"is\\" or in this case \\"any\\" from Jeary.<br />In chapter 8 \\"Keeping Their Attention\\" he introduces the concept of business entertainment-a phrase he has trademarked. In the title he uses the words proven secrets. The big secret is that his explanation of business entertainment is shockingly shallow. The worthy gist of is to do bold things to keep the audience engaged. Sorry, Jeary the command to play music, play games and other categories does not cut it. Explain yourself. I get the drift of it enough to say that is the book that Jeary or someone should write. That book would be freshand exciting. In fact if that book exists I am going to find it.<br />On page 96 there is a page on gestures. In nearly every speaking book the author is so afraid of mechanical outcomes that they say trite stuff about be natural or be yourself. Give Jeary credit for making an attempt at giving some specific advise about gestures. The book turns me off on paying big bucks for his in person seminar on presentations at this point. There are lots of little tidbits and minor insights through out the book.<br />Just--- not a block buster book. It is well above average. Of the 40 plus books on speaking that I have read and reviewed on Amazon this book is at the lower end of the top ten books to read for public speaking improvement. Clearly, a worthy book.<br />Inspire Any Audience is worth the money and then some but it is not an inspired book that the author was burning to write. It is a darn good survey of techniques to give your customers an interesting day long seminar.	2002-05-21
US	51107805	R1OQDLWNXYYPC7	0743205626	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed and the American Boom (Greenspan, Alan)	Books	1	7	9	N	N	A Let Down	The less than stellar writing skills shocked me. Maestro is my first Woodward book. Sentence structure and word choice shows little effort or imagination. I got the feeling that he regretted taking on this project but was determined to make money on it in the near term rather than deferring it to a time he would be up to it. ... This is likely to be the poorest book ever to be written on Greenspan looking backward and forward. Woodward got walloped in this competition. Check out Greenspan The Man Behind Money by Justin Martin before you risk your money on this one. Wordward writes of Greenspan as a bright robot. Martin fleshes out an interesting character that is fun to read.<br />While Woodward derides the economic knowledge of many Federal Reserve officials and politicians, his own economic knowledge shortcomings prevent his capturing the really big story behind the events. He is forced to exaggerate the potential drama behind nearly every tiny change in the federal funds rate. He has a complete lack of understanding of inflation risk and trivializes inflation levels of 3-4%. He does not even touch on the fact that having failed to stop inflation during the more than decade long boom we now have a new floor. It is not zero. The markets will anticipate long run inflation as highly likely to exceed 4% making current bond prices vulnerable. He appears clueless in the linkage of inflated stock prices and excessive money growth. He has made very little effort to research Federal reserve powers generally and stock market credit authority particularly. The idea that he could try to report on Greenspan's activities and provide the nuances with out understanding and describing Federal Reserve powers and regulations is flabbergasting. In a desperate reach for fabricated excitement, Woodward portrays the American economy constantly on the verge of collapse in every monetary crisis. While his desire is to show Greenspan as near superhuman, there comes a point he ought to realize that with crisis after crisis agilely shaken off we see how powerful the system is in current times. Greenspan is maestro for the most powerful competitive, resilient economic system ever developed.<br />He does a good job placing the irrational exuberance problem in contest. Having watched stock market levels become excessive, Greenspan and the Fed had a real problem on their hands. While they in part created it, the problem of putting the genie back in the bottle without great damage remains one the most brutal policy problems for the Fed for as far as the eye can see.<br />He recklessly brands Greenspan a \\"militant laissez-faire capitalist.\\" It reveals Woodward's ultra liberal economic views. Can you really think the someone unrepresentative of mainstream economic theory could make it to Chairman of the Fed. I don't think so. He indicts  Greenspan as insensitive to the poor. Yet, he offers not even dribble on the struggle to balance high employment and inflation. There is one heck of a lot more high drama in that endeavor, than his grinding discussion of each little rate change. I read every word of this book hoping that the wrap up would be worth the trip. In the end his Epilogue was lifeless. Knowing a little something about economics and being disappointed in the integrity of this book certainly makes me wonder about the authors integrity in his other books. I will think very carefully before I buy another Woodward. If you are a economics junkie like me buy the book an see what a twit Woodward is on this one. It may help us understand why press coverage on the economy and business is so poor. We can only hope that Greenspan will write his own book. So far no author sees the really big exciting story of what Greenspan has accomplished and what he has left undone or unresolved.	2002-05-15
US	51107805	R1KII8RBRNLIVG	068483958X	975622600	All The Best, George Bush: My Life in Letters and Other Writings	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Easy Read Instructive	Easy book to read. Hundreds of letters each standing on its own. The letters span the range of drama from great sorrows to great joys. In between it is light hearted, whimsical, funny and at times deeply insightful. Delivers a more vivid understanding of George Bush than a memoir: 1.Honorable man devoting nearly all his life to country, 2. Striving to engage both political parties to do what is best, 3. All to often pushed aside by the press and both ends of the political spectrum in disbelief. <br />All politics is local. Even more micro, George Bush 41 was the consummate  one on one communicator by letters. WWII combat flier, businessman and endless high level government jobs could not keep him from touching thousands of people one at a time through letters. Many letters were responding to people with no chance of winning over. These letters are very instructive in showing the space where he really functioned and probably kept him one of the most well grounded presidents of all time.<br />As a book of letters it is free to cover more ground. Explanations and foot notes are strikingly short and limited through out the book. A typical memoir would take volumes to cover life of George Bush 41 and still touch all the subjects in this book of letters. <br />GHWB's personal relationships with world leaders are authenticated by the relevant letters in this book. We had the right President a critical time. Going into the Gulf War, partisan dissent was astounding and helped to limit the objectives in Iraq. Though blatantly obvious why the Gulf War had to be fought, it was not for many senators. I was disappointed that a greater effort was not make to help the reader understand how so many senators could be so out of touch with the world. <br />Would it be for the following reasons. The average American voter is not that interested in the rest of the world. Those rare moments in history when America is committed to a plan that affects other nations brings about breathtakingchanges. The rest of the time our government sits back and tries to lead us in very petty mundane causes. At the time of the Gulf War many senators were saying to hell with the future if the public is not ready, they were certainly not. So often congress looks like a disfunctional family. Allowing the media to lead the public 80% of the time but hopefully by the government at least 20% of the time. The media never takes credit for the ugly stampedes, but is always there to tend the herd. The media is not looking for insight but is looking for the largest number of eyes and ears in the moment and to heck with the future. The media may write or say the dumbest things in the quest for readers and viewers. We have the freedom to overlook much it all the time. While none of us are fully informed we as a nation tend to be headed in the right general direction much of the time. The power to tune the media out is stronger than the abuse of trust by the protected free press.<br />Particularly as past president, the personal letters to many, many members of the press show the powerful impact of the media on government actions. Near the end the book gives much of the bitter taste the media has left in his mouth but then he returns to the restrained high ground. While the press will remain free, we all need to better understand its impact on the political process. It may have made it a better selling book by pulling that punch, but it is less of a service to the nation. As political discourse sinks lower and lower each decade, this book awakens us to the world that could be.	2002-04-28
US	51107805	RY8RO5Y03LMMY	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Look at TV News From Inside	A good book on business of TV network news. Clues you in on the how and why a major highly visible industry is dying or being reshaped. If you like to follow the big trends and get the emotions, color and flavor behind the scenes, for you this non fiction book is as juicy as it gets. From beginning to end the book is full of personal colorful experiences and tales on the rich and famous. The reading does not get any easier than this book. It is up to you to test the authors creditability by reevaluating what you see on the major networks after reading this book. If you don't read the book you will be less well equipped to handle the rapid changes taking place in the news business. Sometimes the most exciting scandals to watch are when industries or governments sit back and do nothing and the public rips them from limb to limb. This is such a scandal in the major networks. The book quotes a survey that the media is viewed as more liberal than half of registered democrats polled. To be out of touch with people that are not your customers would not be surprising, but to out of step with your most friendly customers shows a serious lack of management skills. You will never see TV news or major print media as unbiased again after reading this book. It will also help you understand why the media being left of center for the Democratic party alone is losing its economic base to alternative news outlets. From reading this book there would seem ample reason that the alternative media sources would grow in leaps and bounds at the expense of old traditional sources. That would be forecasting... a very risky business.<br />Bias in major television news and newspaper news has supercharged a dramatic migration of news consumers to cable, satellite, talk radio and the Internet. Major network news viewership has nearly fallen in half in the last 20 years. The fatigue of liberal bias in the old sources, TV and newspapers, over the last several decades is now being accelerated from the availability of new sources particularly the Internet for serious news consumers and the talk radio for those stranded in cars. <br />Bernard Goldberg in this book is nearly totally focused on the liberal bias of the television news programs and the lock step culture surrounding them. These superstar exotically paid TV performers are masking as knowledge processor workers. From reading the dramatic vivid examples he details, it would appear that the network news programs are unlikely to save themselves from the self created destructive forces that are at work constantly eroding its viewer base year after year.<br />Given the little change in top management at the news programs even after such striking declines in viewership, this may be the lull before the storm. The same old rich anchor personalities greet us each day. The top managements of companies that own the major networks have been afraid to intervene in news program policies except to surrender ground to the new competitors by reducing the amount of network news and reducing the resources available to news programs. This in turn reduces quality and quantity of news further driving away viewers.<br />The first amendment rights protect media of all types in regard to content. The anchor people and news program management seem to take the view that the first amendment will somehow save them from the realities of the market place for news. Since the nations founding there has never been much self restraint from news people damaging individuals and organization by biased coverage. Were it not for the power of the consumer to take an easy hike with the remote control there is no other constraint with management so asleep at the switch at the networks. The new sources for news are starting to turn the information market place into a more free wheeling environment where consumers can leave old sources and access news that is more to there liking. Today if you miss the evening news you can access it elsewhere. Itis not just technological change, it is a industry wide culture in a death spiral. The people working at ABC, NBC and CBS are running off the customers by making a defective product.<br />The author shows how when it comes to public policy the TV network news attempts to shape the debate according to a liberal bias. The author describes reporters and editors as \\"total dunces when it comes to economics\\" page 217. It strikes this reviewer that the lack of economic knowledge is as equally bad as the liberal bias. It would be worthy of sequel to this book.	2002-03-18
US	51107805	R1M5S2L4RQHHHK	0815711891	271210760	Globaphobia: Confronting Fears about Open Trade	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Very First Book To Read on Globalization	The ease of reading is exceptional. If you are worried about your limited understanding in economics and especially international trade, this is the book for you. In addition to the book being written and edited to be understood by nearly any modestly educated person it is further advantaged by authors that clearly understand the subject in great depth. As is so often the case the extremely well informed can write with such clarity for the lay reader.<br />As nearly all economists understand net trade flows always equal net investment flows. Shockingly large numbers of media and congressmen do not understand this utterly simple formula. In a nut shell, with all the foreign money pouring into the USA treasuries market, stock market and direct business investments over the last several decades, it follows that the USA would run trade deficits equal to the net investment inflow over the same period. If you do not understand this or you want an ultra easy review of these simple facts, this book was made for you. In a grand gesture of national service these authors wrote the book that was needed for general understanding of what positive and negative points globalization means to the USA. It is not designed for academic kudos. <br />If every modestly educated voter would read this book, the future of the USA and the world would be significantly brightened. While this is a pipe dream, at least read this book before you say one more word about globalization otherwise you may embarrass your self in the presence of informed people. If you are informed on economics please forgive my heavy handedness. It is not meant for you. This is a critical issue for underdeveloped nations and the mature nations, there is so much to be gained by informed voters on this subject.<br />This book is carefully grounded in the proven principals of economics. While a reviewer or two gives an impression to the contrary, decades of reading in economics provides me the confidence to assure you thatthis book is profoundly well grounded. At each point where scholars may differ the authors and editors have carefully laid out its discussion. This is not a book written with a liberal or conservative bent. Modern economics encompasses a significant degree of science and mathematical logic. To view this book as otherwise, is to be illogical or unwilling to accept the most basic proven equations. Again you will not find an easier more meaningful book to read on economics.<br />The USA economy for a variety of reasons has sharply declining need for workers without a high school education and places a continuing rising premium on post college education. Increasingly, those that can graduate from the elite institutions lead nearly a charmed life in the USA. Immigrants that are able to enter the USA with limited education are having increasing difficulty as the decades roll by. It is not clear that globalization is a meaningful factor in placing the such great educational needs on the American worker. This book helps frame the questions that might be asked about the rising importance of education in the USA. The book being about globalization does not dwell on this issue, but it does strongly suggest that the potential understanding of this issue of  the exponentially rising need for superior knowledge is much broader than the globalization trend.<br />The most provocative theme in the latter chapters of the book is the impact of globalization on those American workers that are poorly educated. The adverse impacts on this group comes from rapid technology changes, defective educational system, ineffective governmental assistance and to a very small degree open trade. The authors documentation about how little negative impact foreign trade has on a very limited number of workers is shocking. A source of another worthy book would be to provide a more exhaustive review of this aspect. The authors conclude that the popular obsession on this point should treated with a reorganized aggressive worker assistance program. Almost any reasonable assistance program would be a modest cost relative to the diverse and powerful benefits that all the rest of Americans get from open trade according to the authors.<br />The authors are very negative on the effectiveness of government sponsored retraining. The book is highly critical of the governments ability to define injured parties in open trade without it being a political football. The authors suggest an assistance program that is indiscriminate as to the cause of worker misfortune and focuses on programs that show imperial evidence of effectiveness. The focal point is intermediate assistance for any lower income workers need to find new employment. While the left and the right quarrel about where to draw the line, the authors contend that so few people are in need relative to the benefits of open trade that just focusing on a well designed assistance program would make all the difference in giving support and comfort to the aggrieved relative to the huge benefits of open trade.	2002-02-16
US	51107805	RH1GKA1MLNJWB	0743201256	706822758	The Comedy Bible: From Stand-up to Sitcom--The Comedy Writer's Ultimate "How To" Guide	Books	5	106	111	N	N	Comedy: For Those That Need To Know How Something Works	For many reasons this is a well done book. Judy Carter interviewed and studied many famous comedy people for this book. Quotes by the dozens throughout the book  powerfully build on the point made in the text. Stand up comedians are not the only ones that need to be funny. The most widely used clique about professional speaking is: &quot;You don't need to be funny unless you want to get paid.&quot; Reading this book is more useful than reading all the joke books you can find. Carter says it the most clearly and the most forcefully. You need to first get your message sorted out completely and then make it funny or at least entertaining. Your personal message is more critical to your success than copying other successful people no matter what you field of speaking, entertaining or communication.<br />The book seemed like one giant personal conversation with the author Judy Carter. You may not break out laughing very often reading this book. Carter would have made a good engineer or scientist, she breaks down into the tiniest imaginable pieces what makes something funny and then puts it back together. Reading and working with this book will make you funnier, it is by far the most promising book I have found so far. That is the good news. The bad news is that you can not just read this book. It is more like a highly serious work book. While it is ultra easy to read, it is very demanding to work your way through the book--- At least in the manner Judy Carter expects the book to be used. The book benefits from the years that Judy Carter has taught comedy performance and writing. <br />If you are interested in writing comedy, jokes, sit com or speeches this is the book to buy. Be ready to roll up you sleeves and really work with this book. It is designed and written to the full range of people that are serious about entertaining other people with humor. In another book on comedy Steve Allen wrote in a foreword: &quot;How to books on comedy are a dime a dozen.&quot; For theintensely thinking person on comedy that  craves an in depth understanding, I will be surprised if a better book can be found.  I will search for that potential gem, but my suspicions are as follows. When a better book is written on comedy, it is likely to be written by Judy Carter. As you can see by my review I thought her original book was outstanding and this one is even better. While I have read it once through carefully, the big pay off is going to come by doing the exercises and the introspective work laid out in this book.	2002-02-10
US	51107805	RE17DGAPIVI06	0738205249	673069551	Greenspan: The Man Behind Money	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Hero's Biography	Martin writes a hero's biography in his view. No arguments here. Greenspan  was a late bloomer. Not until age 42 did Alan Greenspan start to get some visibility-- lifting him from the ranks of just another Wall Street economist seeking publicity to some one that was going to be listened to by Presidents. It all started by working on the 1968 Nixon campaign to help out an old musician friend. In 1974, when President Ford make him head of the Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) many in Wall Street were outraged that Greenspan would be the man. At age 48 Greenspan had slowly risen from very humble beginnings to a powerful place in government that would be his springboard to an exulted place in the history of the nation---one of the important contributors to America's greatness.<br />Martin provides an entertaining tour of Greenspan's early life as a musician that quit Julliard training to become a professional jazz musician despite his love of classical music. His passion for reading economics evolved to a new endeavor and enrollment in New York University in 1945. He contributed to the economic thinking of Ayn Rand (novelist and philosopher) and he gained greatly from the 15 year close association that sustained a friendship, lasting until her death. It was the moral foundations for his contribution to helping some sectors of public opinion find the virtues of free markets, free trade and limited government. Martin's liberalism never allows him to really hear the Greenspan message of free markets and less government. Woodward's book follows the Fed events more closely then Martin, but he really brings Greenspan to life. More people need to aspire to be an accomplished economist in public service. This book may help by showing the potential for fame.<br />The book is entertaining about his personal life. With power he became attractive to powerful women journalists ( Barbara Walters. Andrea Mitchell and others). His Washington social life is fascinating.  Martin is a light weight when it comes to writing about the occupation  of economist and economic history. He is particularly weak on monetary policy, but he makes a good effort. After all this is a book about a hero. I am inclined to be skeptical about the authors economic policy observations on Milton Friedman, Arthur Burns, Henry Kissenger, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George Bush 41,William Clinton, and George W. Bush.. The author exaggerates Greenspan's skills and diminishes his weaknesses. The passion to tell the most salable story for the book allows him to overlook the fact that no economist is going to have a great track record for forecasting the economy. Congressional criticism of Greenspan's forecasting in initial confirmation hearings should have been about any economic forecast not just Greenspan's. The book perpetuates the myth that the Council of Economic Advisors or the Federal Reserve can have a detailed forecast of the future with great odds of success. <br />Greenspan was a noted (perhaps revered) inflation hawk. Some say he turned weak in the Clinton years. Martin totally misses the issue of so called modest inflation of two to three percent for more than a decade versus the no inflation talk of Greenspan in his early years. If it had been possible to have no inflation long term interest rates could be half what they are today. He does note that the Fed has little influence on long term rates. He just does not make the connection that the markets never believed that the Fed would or could commit to a true policy of no inflation. The daily failure to bring inflation to zero is the direct cause that the Fed lacks any influence on long term interest rates except as now being enthroned as perpetrators of two to three percent inflation for a long, long time to come. The public will be paying a high price on home mortgages and corporations on bonds as the result of more than a decade of so called modest inflation after the preceding radical inflation that preceded the Greenspan era.<br />Martin's review of  Greenspan's \\"Irrational Exuberance\\" remarks is very frumpy. Martin does catch the fact that if the money supply grows to fast it does not always translate into inflationary product prices. Sometimes excess money growth has the insidious impact of driving up asset prices and or stock prices. This creates a time bomb that the Federal Reserve has great difficulty dealing with as the potential for adjustment is so impossible to forecast. Hence, the irrational exuberance remarks came a few years before the stock market correction. Had he understood this, Martin could have researched why the Fed never utilized its power to set margin requirements on stocks. On this point, Martin really blew it. It really stems from his struggle to know just enough economics to tell a good story and not take so much time so that he could make some fast money while Greenspan and the stock market was still popular. The book is well enough written that I would seriously look at any future book that Justin Martin writes. A serious reader is left with a deep passion to read hopefully Greenspan's memoirs and the resulting discussion of irrational exuberance, the weakening on inflation and his views on Federal Reserve oversight and independence. Greenspan will every right to brag about his policy of opening up Fed actions to more timely public understanding of deliberations.	2002-01-21
US	51107805	R3M3VSS0MY2OB5	0440502438	775990395	Stand-Up Comedy: The Book	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Excellent How To Book on Comedy and Speaking	A truly incredible book, Carter breaks down comedy performance into very tiny pieces so we ought to be able to produce outstanding material. It leaves me awestruck. With everybody near and far, high and low, saying you either have it or you don't... along comes Carter and says if you want to learn how to do it follow through with the work in this book. There are lots of projects, lists of things to do and exercises. Her blindingly insightful advise to not try to be funny is very helpful. Instead, you work on your experiences to turn them into entertaining commentary, routines or speeches. Eventually, you work you way though the process of getting laughs allowing yourself to be surprised by the positive reception. If there are no laughs you just move on having told them an interesting story. You keep working on your stories until the laughs come. It is a cross between a textbook with assignments and a  highly motivational book. Carter breaks down into fine detail what makes people laugh. Even if you are not going to shoot for being a famous stand up comedian, you can learn how to spice up you speeches and conversations-to lighten up. The author does not talk down to the reader. Reading Carter, it feels like she is in the room with constant encourage that it will happen. Carter must be a wonderful caring person.<br />She is not saying your life has to be messed up to have a source of comedy from your experiences. She is saying it is not a negative--exploit it. She shows how humility and self deprecation can work with out bringing you down. The book is impressively easy to read, but the exercises are not easy. You will need to set aside a lot of time for the projects and exercises to make the book work for you. It must be a good cheap initial substitute for going to her school. In a relative's, guest bedroom I spotted this book that was acquired at one of her seminars. I read it and promptly ordered another of her books from Amazon. Even if I don't become very funny Iwill be a better speaker in the future from working through this book. Even though I have read the book carefully, I have a lot of work to do with this book yet.<br />At the end is a list of comedy clubs, comedy publications, and agents. The list of comedy schools is very short. It only lists her school. After doing such a great book it is exceeding easy for me to accept this touch of self promotion.	2002-01-16
US	51107805	R3I9TKAWFMD94Z	1884864147	791066804	The Art of the Soloperformer	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Low Budget Book At A High Price	You have to wonder if all the reviews that appear on Amazon were solicited by the author or his agent. They are all glowing and talk little about the book. Perhaps they were all fans of his personal performances. The editorial reviews were largely from people mentioned in his book. This book is severely over priced. I made a mistake in buying it relative many other available books. I read the exaggerated editorials and customer reviews on Amazon. Usually, careful research on Amazon saves me from such errors, but not this time. I read it anyway. It has some merit. If you are a struggling performer or speaker and have to find a toe hold somewhere on an extremely low budget, this would be a really good book. If you are down and out on your luck and need a fresh start, this may be the ultimate book for you. If you are doing a radical career change and are starting at the bottom rung with uncertain skills and resources may be this is a great book. It is chatty, full of cartoons, easy to read and humble. I wonder if there is the next Elvis Presly with lots of talent and not knowing how to start reads this review and does not buy the book. What have I done. If you are really struggling may be you should read this book. It is not a high brow book by a country mile.<br />Some of his words of wisdom follow. It is better to work at something you love initially for no money or even no hope of money than doing something you do not enjoy. With commitment some money shows up maybe eventually lots of money. Professional speaking gurus say do not speak for low amounts of money. Work for free in venues that do not pay until you can get a price that will not hurt your image. Steve says take the money. Pass the hat is better than a tip jar. I am serious he says: Do deep breathing in restroom stalls....Oh, come on. That is disgusting.<br />The best tip I got out of the book is to use head and facial gestures and actions wisely. I started looking at actors on TV and movies. I realized that they use them effectively while speakers tend to use them very sparingly. I re-watched a number of Ronald Reagan speeches and realized that he successfully carried the face and head movement of acting into his public speaking. With so much of his speaking on TV, he was partially effective because of these skills. Rapson does not have much discussion about head movements not even a paragraph but it got me to looking at performers versus speakers. I suggest that:If you want to get paid you are better off being a performer that speaks rather than a speaker that performs.<br />Rapson sides with the large number of people that say if you have a hand out distribute them afterwards. If you do this to the financial community, the press or an audience of important people do not be surprised if you are spit on, booed or possibly lynched. If people are not taking notes, you are not saying anything worth listening to. If they are taking notes and you pass out your speech or graphics after your talk, your are a rank amateur. These people want to follow along and take notes on your material. If you want to be really stupid, tell important people there is no need to take notes and then deviate significantly from the written speech that you then hand out. On the other hand, this is a book for the down and outer-not the polished performer looking for a few tips.<br />I guess I am glad I read the book, but I am really happy I did not write it. If I was the editor reading it again after publication I would be really sick.that they use them effectively while speakers tend to use them very sparingly. I re-watched a number of Ronald Reagan speeches and realized that he successfully carried the face and head movement of acting into his public speaking. With so much of his speaking on TV, he was partially effective because of these skills. Rapson does not have much discussion about head movements not even a paragraph but it got me to looking at performers versus speakers. I suggest that:If you want to get paid you are better off being a performer that speaks rather than a speaker that performs.<br />Rapson sides with the large number of people that say if you have a hand out distribute them afterwards. If you do this to the financial community, the press or an audience of important people do not be surprised if you are spit on, booed or possibly lynched. If people are not taking notes, you are not saying anything worth listening to. If they are taking notes and you pass out your speech or graphics after your talk, your are a rank amateur. These people want to follow along and take notes on your material. If you want to be really stupid, tell important people there is no need to take notes and then deviate significantly from the written speech that you then hand out. On the other hand, this is a book for the down and outer-not the polished performer looking for a few tips.<br />I guess I am glad I read the book, but I am really happy I did not write it. If I was the editor reading it again after publication I would be really sick.	2002-01-13
US	51107805	R3S51AF7MTHP5H	0062508113	135418128	The World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom Traditions	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Awesomely Easy To Read	The book is astoundingly easy to read. If you are skeptical of religion or searching for more than your past knowledge this is the book for you. The is no hint of any effort to change the reader's views, but rather a magnificent sharing of knowledge by one of the great observers of all religions. The book's goal is to provide us with the basic wisdom of each of the seven major religions. I read each section at different times as my curiosity on each developed. I have reread many parts recently Islam. This is not a history of  religion or a rigorous road map of comparative religion. It is a brilliant and successful effort to put the basic wisdom of the great major religions in one book of reasonable size.<br />The original book is now 43 years old. This revised 1991 edition is better than ever. As the leading most popular book of its kind you can not go wrong so long as you understand that this book is designed to make these vast subjects approachable. <br />No one can say with confidence that a particular religion is superior. Yet each religion is different. History shows the greatest folly pursues conversions from one religion to another or seeks a merging religions. The beauty has always been in the differences and at the same time that there are common tenants. There lies the greatest reason for reading this fabulous book. Secondarily, despite the great and accelerating advances of science--- little is provided on the subjects that humans yearn to understand.<br />A third valuable reason for reading this book is as follows. Each community and each nation has abundant experiences with religions (and secular beliefs) impinging on the  freedoms of those not sharing the beliefs of rulers leaders or democratic majorities. Perversion of one of the world's great religions is now having a major global impact. The backlash against normal Islam believers is very misplaced.<br />To assess the variances between the great religions and their significance, the author sums up the common teachings. I try to condense the author's final summary chapter as follows. The universal ethics are to avoid: murder, thieving, lying and adultery. The virtues are: humility, charity and veracity. The three common visions follow. First, if we could see the whole we would find it more integrated that we suppose. Second, our lot in life is better than the senses discern. Thirdly, our role is more mysterious than can be comprehended. In light of this wisdom the author encourages us to go forward and listen. Limitless reasons require us to listen to the faith of others, science and the secularists. Science and trade has annihilated the great distances between people. Yet, people have to struggle to see each other as equals. By listening we will understand others in ways leading to loving one another. To speak without listening turns away from wisdom.	2002-01-07
US	51107805	RV6VG8Y76QQDW	0815700040	173936216	Terrorism and U.S. Foreign Policy	Books	5	4	9	N	N	The Leading Scholarly Book on Terrorism	As former deputy Chief of Counter terrorism at the CIA, the author is exceedingly qualified as well as articulate. This is the book for you if you want to learn about terrorism and what is being done about it from one of the world's leading experts. The book provides detailed real life examples. The book is highly enlightening and is likely to cause changes in your viewpoint. If you need a book to get emotionally pumped up about the topic, look else where. It is ridiculous to think that the CIA and other parts of the government establishment were short on knowledge about terrorism prior to 911 as one reviewer contends. When congress slashes the budget of any part of the government it follows that its performance will spiral downward. This book will help those that are so ill informed. The book will not help you understand why the voting public has been indifferent to the intelligence community prior to 911.<br />Many assume that a book published by a think tank will be challenging to read-- this one is not. While a high brow non fiction book, it is ultra easy to read. You really learn and think about terrorism in a broader scope. Author is so coldly analytical about the evaluation of lives lost versus preventative cost and life style change. Reminds me of a medical school professor explaining that some medications are going to slip through the FDA approval process that would save many lives but end up with serious unrecognized side effects for several people. This is making drug approvals excessively expensive because the FDA is so politicized  in fear of its own errors. How we now handle terrorism is certain to be political and likely divisively partisan despite today's moment of bipartisanship. <br />The author seems so though and analytical in laying out the issues. This book could become very popular in the years ahead. Terrorism will be around a long time, but the world won't be tolerating it the same old way. This book may be followed by many low quality booksthat will appeal to sensational aspects now before the public. However, I look forward to this author's update for the best understanding of the scourge on humanity post 911.<br />USA has been the leading target for the decades. We are the superpower that now is leading the world in combating this menace and that will add to the proportion of events against the USA but lessen the world total. As time progresses the tolerance for non democratic governments has declined dramatically, governments that support terrorism will now be the first to go. How far the hunt proceeds and into how many countries is the most provocative question. Reading this book certainly prepares one for having a frame of reference as the events unfold beyond the current action.	2001-11-19
US	51107805	R2HAAYO3ONVORM	1571052194	94403870	Usama Bin Laden's Al-Qaida: Profile of a Terrorist Network (Terrorism Library Series)	Books	5	13	24	N	N	A Powerful Book in Facts and for Timeliness	The book describes al Qaida's beginnings in 1989, its structure, lists the 55 countries it operates in, describes its efforts to buy or develop nuclear weapons, discusses its February 1998 edict that Muslims should kill Americans (military or civilian) indiscriminately anyplace in the world. Provides insight into how the insanity of bin Laden developed and why others bought into it. Brief sketches of dozens of al Qaida members. Reviews attacks made by the group and arrests that have resulted. A chronological review of events. <br />The book provides statements and interviews of bin Laden so that you can hear in his own words his views. It provides a variety of court documents and United Nations resolutions.<br />It took five years after the Somalia incident for the USA to indict bin Laden on June 8, 1998. In the midst of al Qaida's growth and persistent successes against American targets, the American government was dismantling the CIA field operations personnel. While this book does not discuss the decimation of CIA capabilities, it provides you convincing background why a heavy price would be paid. As in the Gulf war a large minority of congressmen opposed the action and were never held accountable by the voters, it may well be that the national leaders that lead the dismantling of the CIA will go scott free.<br />This is not the dribble that you get from newspapers and TV. For those that need to be informed in a quality way this book is very timely. The authors work is very easy to read. The documents on bin Laden in his own words are hard to follow. Through the ages many have used various religions in very perverted ways. It is probably a waste of effort to understand his insanity but this book may be a good starting point if that is a goal. There is no editorializing or inflation in this high quality book. It is a vital reference for times yet to come. It appears that the past leisurely pursuit of terrorist is at an end and we are in a true war against all forms of terrorists. If that pledge is upheld in the years to come the sooner you read this book, the more time you will save rather than waiting for the superficial media to fill you in on this great milestone of our generation.	2001-10-28
US	51107805	R2FKL4SWLA6M4N	1586480197	643806349	Open Society: Reforming Global Capitalism	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Greatest Overview Book Ever Written On Economics/Politic	Different than CEOs that have made billions of dollars from a single company common stock holding and options. Soros had to digest massive amounts of information every day and make hundreds of correct decisions to accumulate his wealth. Implicitly, his knowledge of the world had to be superb and more accurate than most other people. That is the reason I chose to read this book carefully.<BR> <BR>Soros powerfully develops why the fallibility of even the brightest individuals and the best of government institutions is profoundly persistent as to be nearly certain over time in the social sciences and economics. Fallibility is the most powerful foundation argument for pursuing the open society worldwide. Soros states an open society needs free markets, rule of law, democratic rule and enough cultural freedom to be constantly improving or remaking itself. Choices need to made at the lowest smallest possible level of governments and companies.  Individual freedoms need to be accentuated. Much like eastern philosophy we can't expect grand goals to be realized as we move forward as a society or individual. Our course needs to be constantly changing toward the improved understanding of goals as we approach them. <br />Soros says that: Even though, the invisible hand of the free markets consistently comes up with better answers for the good of everybody collectively than any government, these free markets should not be worshipped without qualification. Doubts should exist. Soros says: We have yet to see a nation that has all the freedoms and individual independence that is warranted by the experience of history. Yet, there is a pressing need for compassion for those that are failing within both the free and oppressed nations.<br />He is concerned about the moral fiber of a free market system as people need to belong to a community and/or society that stands for more than free markets. He makes the case for international institutions to work on global problems of oppressive governments and improving economic relationships throughout all nations. He is very critical of the current institutional skills embodied in international efforts to manage the economic and the political system.<br />The reviewer that thinks Soros does not address how his trading skills developed was dreaming of simple answers instead of Soros insights. Soros discussion of reflexivity is very helpful. Soros concedes that basic commodities markets may realize the magic of the equilibrium market price created by the invisible hand that economists worship. However, when it comes to financial markets where he has incredible knowledge to impart, he shows over and over again how financial markets get out of balance and can persist out of balance for some time. The public does not want to hear that stock market is a violent place. There is nothing the government or investors can do about severe market swings. Investors should stop being cheer leaders for their favorite stocks. Take Soros advice and revel in the discovery of your errors and potential wrong headed directions. Logic helps but rigidity will kill you.<br />Soros has many powerful insights about the disequilibrium of financial markets and its impact on company profits and the economy in total. While the book is much more than his thoughts on the stock market, a serious professional money managers will find his own fears vividly described. All professional managers concerns about how the markets fail to work smoothly are spelled out in lucid detail. Soros helps you understand how to deal with the times that other professional get it very wrong but are driving the markets very far in the wrong direction. He shows how to enthusiastically develop ways to sense when you are going to lose even though you have a good understanding of reality. If you have not manage money professionally, you may well miss many of his profound points. Note the incredible success of Soros and adjust to the fact that he speaks with greater authority that any other writer on financial markets in these times. How you deal with his broader applications beyond the financial markets is what makes the book so fascinating and provocative.  <br />Soros is not attacking capitalism. The notion that Soros is forecasting the demise of the global economic system is very silly. Soros evaluates the future very cautiously.. he has concerns not bold forecasts. Soros shows over and over again how difficult it is to predict the future and markets. Soros shows in vivid detail why you should very distrustful of people that make bold predictions as the reviewer reckless assigns to Soros. Read the book. That reviewer deserve your most unbridled rebuke. How could the reviewer get the impression that Soros was saying: If only Marx and the Former Soviet Union leaders could have only explained communism better it might have worked. Soros negative views on communism could not be more lucid. He is screaming at maximum volume for more liberties and freedom of choice and particularly freedom of thought. He would find the typical American college a stifling place to try to learn new insights.<br />Two world Wars book ending a great depression and a cold war of massive proportions have left most people with an aggressive bias that governments ought to do something--- anything. I am left with the feeling that Soros does not understand that these great ills were created by governments that then argued that political and economic freedoms were not working and therefore let us the government do something for you. If you share a belief in big government on a global scale you will find encouragement in this book. However, Soros has the dream that global government agencies can do big things without infringing on his cherished freedoms and liberties. Freedoms that are his first love and not an afterthought.	2001-09-03
US	51107805	R2YFUYRCEOF749	0156334607	252269413	Free to Choose: A Personal Statement	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Vital Link of Political And Economic Freedom in Vivid Detail	The book is exceptionally easy to read relative to all others in the field of economics a great case study of how to write an easy to read book on a complex but vital subject. Designed to take a lifes work and make it approachable to the average reader. As one of the leading Nobel prize winning economists of all time, this is required reading for any one intending to understand American society, its exceptionally powerful economy and some of its flaws. His exposition of how USA developed a vastly superior standard of living for the average and poorer citizen is very important to those that care about sustaining our prosperity in the long term.<br />An important theme of the book is to understand why economic freedom can precede personal freedom in oppressive nations like China but then they have such grave difficulty controlling the populations desires for growing freedoms. He details how the first essential requirements in letting in rapid economic progress to a previously repressive society  is the rule of law, respect for contracts and the free movement of capital. <br />The book helps you understand why The Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith ranks with the US constitution as a vital document of human progress. The book helps you understand how the invisible hand of the market place finds the better long term answers compared to the government. It does so faster and cheaper with an order of magnitude of greater personal freedom. <br />One of the most powerful themes of the book is how the foul up of the US government in the 20th  century created the illusion that the free market system was broken and the government had to intervene. In reality the governmentParticularly the Federal Reserve was what was broken. As Milton Friedman explains, it was not a government conspiracy but worse yet profound ineptness in the governments understanding its own culpability. He helps us understand how the great depression muddled peoples thinking. It launched the political momentum in search of collective shared dreams of help from the government that has turned into night mares after horror stories.<br />As with his other books, more on how the Federal Reserve was the leading cause of the global depression of the 1930s. Read carefully, the section on the 1907 to the Korean War focusing on how the Fed blatantly denies it culpability and Milton Friedman nails them on it. It may help you understand how in recent times the Federal Reserve pumped to much money into the economy and how excess credit leaked out into the stock market causing the bubble and then the correction of 2001. As the markets were so recklessly pumped up by the Federal Reserve one can not expect the excesses to be suddenly behind us. To understand the years ahead this book will help. Then read the Federal Reserves current pretentious statement on how the stock market correction makes their job more difficult. They fail to recognize that the dream of juicing up the economy and tolerating 2 to 3 percent inflation per year in consumer prices was completely ignoring the inflation they were causing in the stock market. The greatest disdain should be saved for the congressional committees that were to provide an oversight function but did more for inflaming the passion for hyper growth. Congress  wasted a magic opportunity in not addressing inflation and the reckless stock market stimulation in the vain hopes that unemployment could driven down to unprecedented lows. Why would anyone believe any new commitment to controlling inflation on the part of the Federal Reserve. This means decades of high interest rates that allow investors in government bonds a full recovery of inflation and a real return to boot. Interest rates would now be sharply lower were it not for this blunder. <br />Case after case of how government intervention has hurt the average citizen and the total economy. The book has an aggressively stated case for abandoning public schools to save the intercity the disadvantaged in general and change the focus of all school. Schools focus mostly on advancing the mediocre student. The idea of letting some schools focus on the bright kids would be incredibly exciting and vital to national creativity. Parents get involved in privates schools doing part of the work at schools and this is every bit as true in poor neighborhoods. What parent has not been pushed aside by rules and regulations in public schools or been turned off  from lending a helping hand by the politicized environment that has been created. The day is coming when the minority races will develop large numbers scholars and it will be from private schools with very active parents. The public schools may well disintegrate and be sold off to parents that took their children to private schools in disgust. The schools are not much good for other purposes one way or the other parents are taking back the schools. Left to the free markets it wont take long. A little bit of voucher activity could make it accelerate with awesome speed. It may yet be Milton Friedmans greatest contribution to society.	2001-09-02
US	51107805	R3DFBMMCCSJWVH	0609805231	271579697	How to Know God: The Soul's Journey into the Mystery of Mysteries	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Finding Your Own Foundations Of Spirituality On YOUR Terms	A fantastic first book to read on religion and/or spirituality. If you are the analytical type that has been disappointed in the lack of discipline and organization in books on spirituality and religion: This is your lucky day. Clearly this book has been reworked and edited to increase the odds of understanding. The style of organizing his views without trying to sell or proselytize is refreshing. There is nothing threatening or demanding in this book. What ever your concept of God you will not be hustled in this book. Those reviewers that are well read on religion seem to bring an agenda to their reviews. As best I can tell Chopra's agenda is to get people thinking about religion in a broader more personal sense and not be afraid to develop their own personal opinions. So he makes a lot of money. If that bothers you aren't you belittling yourself. The market place for ideas is always open in America. Give it a rest. Sorry, I have not read all the great minds on religion, but I have to start somewhere. For me it was a good experience. You can read and consider you own views easily as you read this book-no matter whether Western or Eastern religion dominate. Even if the Chopra organization has in part become a book writing factory reworking past writings to improve clarity and provide new material to sell, this book is so well written that it warrants your consideration. A well written and easy to read book is the result of Chopra's consolidation of his beliefs into refreshingly new book. <br />If you have done some modest work in mediation, it will help you understand the experiences discussed. It seems that the author assumes some modest level of mediation experience. It is frequently said there is no goal in mediation. There may now be. If you have to do some mediation to really understand this book then it is worth the diversion.	2001-07-30
US	51107805	R1IED9VFDVCZSP	0060197846	414816337	A Different Drummer: My Thirty Years with Ronald Reagan	Books	5	2	4	N	N	True Insights Into Reagan	These are the lessons I learned from this book. The rich and famous, particularly movie actors, have a strong tendency to whine about how they are treated or at least complain about their loss of privacy. For most of Reagan's live he was famous and became one of history's most famous. Deaver shows how accepted that as the price you pay for fame. Would it not be a better society if the rich and famous instead of whining started giving back to their fans or to the nation at large more of their just desserts. It would be shameful to want to tax or conscript the rich even more, but it would be nice if they emulated Reagan's life. Even more profound, Deaver explains how Reagan had a strong tendency to take every opportunity to connect with the common man by spending time talking to them individually even though they were surrounded by others of the &quot;rich and famous.&quot;  Is it any wonder that according to Deaver he could govern by what he knew about the common man and what he knew of  himself-not through public opinion polls.  Many politicians complain that they don't get paid like other famous people or chief executive officers of large corporations. After reading this book, you may begin to think the nation has been on the right track for more than 200 years. Every so often a great man steps forward and works for the good of the country, it certainly must be easier to be selfless when you are rich. After reading this book, you might even begin to think that the rich are more likely to be selfless when in public office.  <br />Some people that seem to dominate the media describe Reagan as a failed actor. How can someone be hired to make more than a 100 movies and be a failure. It appears we are all fortunate that he moved on to politics. Some Presidents have been well read and love to show it off. Reagan was well read and let staff cover old ground and issues as if they were teaching him. Some Presidents like to show off their ability to work long hours day in and day out. Reagan wisely kept himself in condition and rested to be ready to make the best decision on the key issues of the age. When you read about how so much of the nation functions poorly due to lack of sleep the question has to be asked. Do you want a President that works beyond human limits or one that knows human limits. Is someone a scholar that excels at scholarly pursuits late in life or are you forever doomed by your high school and college record. One day people will decide  to describe people like Reagan as intellectually powerful no matter what their political persuasion.<br />Even Deaver describes Reagan as distant, after reading this book you realize that he was a big enough man that he could have personal friends and befriend the common man in a personal encounter but saw the wisdom of keeping his naturally advocating staff at some distance. <br />Deaver could have written a down and dirty or at least racy high selling book, instead he tried to capture the essence of a person that played a huge role in history. To capture the touchy feely part of a person in the written or spoken word you have to have the courage to come of as too simple or a person of not great depth. In this book, Deaver took the higher calling. Hopefully, Deaver was fulfilled at the same time doing a service to history. Different than other writers on Reagan who have a need to show how they were smarter than Reagan, Deaver only rarely slips into the ego trip mode.	2001-07-29
US	51107805	RUVDVT328T1PJ	0684864851	218496758	Endgame : Solving the Iraq Problem -- Once and For All	Books	4	15	22	N	N	Can You Handle The Truth	By resigning in protest and being free to accurately tell the truth, meant that an aggressive program to discredit Scott Ritter from the highest levels of the Clinton administration was a certainty. Even if he were only partially right, he should go down in history as a modern day patriot for the civilized world. Ritter saw in the UNSCOM inspection arm of the United Nations the potential for creating precedents that would guide future programs to contain the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. He states in detail how the Clinton administration subverted the inspections into a vehicle to sustain the sanctions on Iraq longer than the international community desired. This resulted in a complete collapse of the inspection program and will likely evolve into the end of sanctions on Iraq. . Ritter clarifies the reality. As deceitful as Iraq was, an endgame required that with some level of co-operation the Western world would receive benefit from true elimination of Iraq&#8217;s weapons of mass destruction. If there is a good defense of the Clinton policy it would be intertwined with its stated desire to end the era of Saddam Hussein. Ritter shows how the Clinton inter circle saw sanctions as a tool to bring him down. In light of the views of the international community, this has been shown to be a dreamy eyed approach. Between the push of USA and the pull of the contrary forces of the international community, Ritter shows the Secretary General of the United Nations as little more than a cork bouncing in the waves. <br />In the broader picture this book should cause you to think about abusive governments. Brutal dictatorships are extremely difficult for its citizens to overthrow. (Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan, Yugoslavia, China and on and on.) While knowledgeable people were fully aware that Iraq is run by gangsters in every sense of the word, he added details that we did not know. This is not propaganda, the most accurate word is gangster.  Ritter&#8217;s book only adds to the overwhelming information about these thugs....<br />The United States boldly needs to restore bi-partisanship to international relations. Until citizens demand more depth and integrity from the media there is little hope for well conceived international relations. The book provides powerful information on why you should be concerned. The book reveals how close Iraq was to having long range nuclear missiles at the start of the Gulf war. Chemical and biological weapons were well developed. Israel was a prime target well before the Gulf war and has much to lose as the international community proceeds to give up on its past efforts to eliminate these weapons as proscribed by the surrender terms signed by Iraq.   No matter what Saddam does from this point forward, history will record that he has been the greatest fool on the stage of world leaders. Iran war, Kuwait war and weapons retention&#8212;each was a bizarre act. All the time underneath his feet is vast oil wealth. With western technology as opposed to its historical dependence on backward Russian technology, the potential for even more discoveries in Iraq is provocative. It is not a fantasy to imagine the proved oil reserves could be doubled. French oil exploration assistance subsequent to the Kuwait invasion created considerable promise.   At the end of the book, Ritter&#8217;s advise appears to complex and to dependent of multiple actions from various nations. His desire to get the message out on a timely basis rushed the books research and construction. History should treat him well nonetheless.	2001-07-25
US	51107805	R1ATAJK72CF692	0226264017	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Possibly the most underrated book of all time.	Amazingly easy to read yet he puts forth profoundly important ideas. He does not need the security blanket of copious footnotes. What a concept. Those few reviewers that have trouble with its readability must be terrified by the power of its ideas and do not know where to turn. This book provides an understanding of mankind's true nature and how the private sector performs better than government functions. Even if you are a modern day left winger, you need to read this book because the people's ideas are increasing drawn from Milton Friedman's views. This book is full of ideas that are so compelling despite being minority views that they will not go away. Forty years later his ideas still are discussed as remedies needed for the future of the world not just the USA. The most powerful and easy to understand is free trade. How anyone can be intelligent enough to be elected to congress and not understand the power of free trade is very mystifying. Yet about half of them seem clueless of the mathematics.<br />As you can see from some reviews , Friedman's ability to use simple little examples to clarify issues is so effective that it gets some reviewers angry. The examples are nonetheless liberating to the mind that hesitates to think more deeply. His clarity is the reason for the power of his ideas through the decades. Realistically, this book can be recommended to anyone that is searching how to write on complex subjects and yet be understood.<br />He is accurately critical of the Federal Reserve. If written today he may say that the Federal Reserve did a very bad job in the last 10 years, It was not true that all we had was inflation of 2 to 3 percent per year and that is nothing to worry about. This excess money supply was sucked up into a stock market that is still overpriced. Reading this book may help you understand this viewpoint. More importantly, if you take a measure of the few ideas that have been accepted from Friedman versus the many that have not I can nothelp but wonder if another forty years from now Friedman will be seen as even wiser than he is currently. Freedom is not easy to hold unto and that was the greatest concern of the nations founders. If you share this fear even today then you will readily see how Friedman has such great appeal to those that love freedom and are willing to pay a short-term price to build on our freedoms.<br />Despite the age of this book their is little that is out of date. While the USA educational system has this great fear of teaching economics in the high school, the fact remains if you do not understand economics you do not understand America. Read this book and you will understand why economics belongs in the high schools. In the forty years of studying the markets, I remain in awe of how the best answers come from free markets. Every time the government steps in saying yes but in this case the market is wrong, it ends up the government was really wrong. Many times I thought the market mechanism was wrong, but I was wrong. If you read this book you could save a lot of time on your experience curve.<br />Today, capital moves around the world at lightening speed if your country does not provide the rule of law and free markets your prospects for attracting capital and retaining it are greatly diminished. If the country is not a democracy the stability of its laws is doubtful because the government's stability is suspect. This makes capitalism or free markets, the most likely path to freedom and the most likely protector of freedom. As democracy has become so widespread, each country provides an environment that is attractive to stock market investors or the money quickly goes elsewhere. Increasingly, governments must respond to subtle difference in the investment climate because there are so many attractive countries to consider. Free markets can not be turned back without experiencing withering capital flight. Capital is no longer the prisoner of governments, citizens are far less mobile than capital. Throughout modern history government is constantly trying to expand its power at the expense of the individual, capital is increasing the ally of individual freedoms and democracy. Doing business with a powerful undemocratic government has become to risky with so many democratic nations to chose from. In the long run big government is in deep trouble. If you do not understand market forces you will not understand the future. This book is easy to read written by one of the all time great thinkers on the subject.	2001-07-25
US	51107805	R3H08V1QEPUVQ8	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Greatly Improve Your Understanding On Many Fronts.	I read this book to gain insight to Reagan as the famous speaker. I found much more. The discovery of these early speeches in his own hand show a man devoted to understanding the world and our country though his own direct efforts with considerable intellect.  His knowledge and understanding was profoundly significant. Few leaders of countries or companies have the self confidence to allow subordinates to believe they are presenting fresh information or insights when the leader has covered that ground before. Reagan, like these other exceptional leaders, amazed subordinates by quickly grasping the true importance of major issues. He had already learned and thought about it but allowed subordinates the glory of believing in their contribution. These speeches show us that breadth of knowledge.<br />The evidence is overwhelming that Reagan personally wrote more speeches in his life time than any other president and was one of the most well read. It surely shows the blind partisanship that grips the nation for particularly the press to have thought otherwise. While blind bias is commonplace in our history. Our educational system is not leading to the open minds desirable in a democracy. National political leaders leap at phrases to stimulate their political base. Sen. Ted Kennedy called SDI the &quot;Star Wars defense&quot; a negative label that persists decades later providing no rational analysis. Was is logical for President Kennedy to press for manned flight to the moon and it not be wise to pursue missile defense. What a double standard.  Each Republican president is attacked as lacking intellect and each Democratic president is elevated to scholar by the media. This book will show you that at least in the case of Reagan the media got it very wrong. Many of us find that to develop in depth  knowledge on almost any subject of importance is to discover all over again how badly the media handles the real substance of any issue.<br />The wide reading and deep researchself-evident here suggest a mind constantly at work. The selections are reproduced with Reagan's own edits, offering a unique window into his thought processes. These writings show that Reagan had carefully considered nearly every issue he would face as president. Reagan was far more than a Great Communicator of other people's ideas. He was very much the author of his own ideas.<br />His insight that the Nixon-Kissinger  plan for détente was not realistic helped change the world. Reagan understood that the Soviet Union had to fail and completely come apart largely through its abusive treatment of its citizens. He saw this same fate looming in front of China-human rights will be its downfall would be Reagan's message even today. The 2008 Olympics may well expedite the process.<br />The secret to becoming a great public speaker for Reagan was that early in his adult life he began to speak very often. Prior to being President he was constantly writing his own speeches. During the era of the GE Theater he barnstormed the nation giving speeches and answering questions from all types of audiences. It was speak, speak &amp; speak. Much like any professional endeavor it is practice and preparation.	2001-07-15
US	51107805	R2CPIP1T8RG4JD	0345407288	621445218	My American Journey	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Delightful Book Worthy of Every American�s Read	The best autobiography I have ever read. Collin Powell had something important to say on many topics. A well written book that had to be long. Those reviewers that contend that it is not well written are from another planet in my opinion. Assuming a long healthy life, Powell's contributions to America are far from over. <br />How bizarre. One reviewer complains that this is an autobiography and not a biography. The advantage of autobiography is that you get that persons unique perspective not messed up by a historian or the many reporters that now consider themselves historians since we buy their books. The true feelings and emotions of the person are precious in an autobiography.<br />One great strength is his ability to talk about prejudice to all races without preaching and yet provides a guide to conduct for all concerned. His insights or takes on the numerous national leaders is very stimulating and derived from close personal knowledge. Those that are put out by his Republican leanings and can't deal with the personal observations may be well served to cool off and think again. He was only one of several people that rejected the invitation to become Secretary of State under President Clinton because of the President's lack of understanding in foreign affairs. No Pun intended. Clinton receives praise on other points as to other Democratic leaders. If you don't like Powell calling it the way he sees it at this point in his life, where among the human race are we to find advise on modern day real issues.<br />Every human in telling their own story gilds the lily to some degree. I prefer to give those that have served with great honor and distinction the benefit of the doubt. How else are we to benefit from the first hand knowledge of a solid American. Powell came to the table to simply make his way in life with honor and dignity and instead greatly enriched our national heritage.<br />Assuming you care about the issues of the day, there are many insights to be gained from this book. I look forward to his return to private life and his future writing and speaking contributions. In the meantime, we are in goods hands each time Powell leads.	2001-07-14
US	51107805	R1S25B27W2JELF	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	3	9	11	N	N	What Is Life About: A Book That Adds Insight.	Centuries ago it was considered evil to predict the future. Even games of chance were played with little understanding of the odds. Today predicting the future, while no longer the forbidden fruit, is done with reckless gusto. Games of chance are centuries old demonstrations of how poorly humans deal with the future. Games provide an unbroken leak to modern man that is willing to enter a billion dollar casino and believe there is money there just for him despite the odds.<br />Those of us that predict for a living understand that it is extremely difficult and the casualness that the average person applies to the task entitles them to poor outcomes. This book has great appeal for those wanting to start over again. The author addresses  the history of risk management and puts into better prospective the opportunities for financial reward. There is a degree of risk in any investment or savings strategy. Owning your own business lacks diversification and yet is the shining path to freedom and independence. This book adds to the dogma of throwing away every analytical approach you would use in investing in your own business. The trauma created for individuals and society by treating the stock market as one giant casino is very real. This book encourages that mentality. It has become a seductive point of view as we approach 24 hour trading. You won't learn much about what makes businesses and the economy tick but it will help you consider the wild, dark side of the stock market.<br />The first half of the book is a historical review of writings on risk and probability. As a history of mathematical ideas about risk it is a good start. The last half of the book in its treatment of stock market concepts and ideas becomes very shabby. As a professional investment person for the last 40 years, I can not help but wonder why the author was so lazy in the writing effort. We can all accept the idea of trying to make a small minor point in building an argument, but why do it clumsily only to then leap at the main points with the reader surprised and unprepared. In the book's last half on the stock market, he superficially reviews academic points  that were make by surveys of investor feelings and viewpoints. Bernstein leaves us with the conviction that the quality and construction of these surveys are not to be questioned as they are put together by academics he respects. Sorry, with statistics the devil is in the details that he conceals. Through out the book are sloppy sentences and paragraphs. The editor really fell down on this book. There are many clumsily described observations.<br />Don't be turned off by the many errors in fact and concepts that other reviewers have pointed out. This may be the first book of its kind that tries to find the foundations for dealing with forecasting the future. Read it as a historical story that gets close to the facts though not dead center. Their is the exciting possibility that the author will encourage greater minds to deal with human behavior and forecasting the future.<br />The author knows a lot about the stock market and is constantly pulling his punches to simplify the material and broaden the readership of the book. What he starts to reveal to the lay reader is that despite the unremarkable results of institutional investors that dominate the stock market, their resources to research with computers, data bases and human interchange with corporate managers are well beyond imposing and intimidating relative the individual investor.	2001-07-14
US	51107805	R3V22Q6OEX3ZCR	0761506128	764646507	Success Secrets of the Motivational Superstars: America's Greatest Speakers Reveal Their Secrets	Books	5	38	41	N	N	New #1On Speaking: Battle Tested Stuff	I have read and reviewed 30+ books on public speaking. It is the best. This can be read as a success motivational book or as the best ways to develop public speaking skills. Either way it is a spectacular book. It may be a long time before I find a better book on public speaking.<br />The game plan for this book is profoundly astute. These interviews(the best motivational speakers) are brilliant and well done. Mr. Jeffreys does not brag about his access to the super successful-he just goes after the meat and delivers it in a very direct style. The author commits to only interview motivational speakers famous through speaking. Bravo! He excludes anybody becoming famous and then becoming a motivational speaker. This assures you: The book is battle tested stuff. Each (30 page + or -) chapter on the fifteen speakers are standalone pieces that can be read in any order. Each chapter has an excellent summary list of secrets for review or rereading.<br />A layout technique that greatly improves the books readability is: Mr. Jeffreys comments are the full width of the page, but when he is paraphrasing or quoting one of the interviewed Superstars the left and right margins are slightly smaller. If you don't care, it does not slowdown the reading, but when you do care just check the margins. Not being a slave to an exact quote and telling the story as Jeffreys sees it makes this book very readable. Jeffreys appears constantly faithful to the intent of the superstar. Not once does he preach or challenge the superstar's thoughts. I found no author clues to his favorite speaker or preferred techniques.<br />Book is full of speech improvement techniques. It encourages a high level of enthusiasm and to aggressively experiment with audience participation. Book provides a convincing case for being exactly the person and speaker you want to be and not compare yourself to other successful speakers as there is lots of room for new speakers that are authentic and original. Excellent advice on finding coaching that helps you be you and not someone else even if they do not have strong speaking experience.<br />It shows persistence in providing motivation without being preachy. The critical role of self esteem-a major problem for Americans-is discussed. Great advice on creating and maintaining your personality on and off the podium. It is full of business advice for the speaking for money person. The strongest point for me was market your topic not you as a person.<br />The first chapter on Tony Robbins is surprisingly good. Apparently Robbins is the most financially successful motivational speaker of all time, Jeffreys strips away all the clutter and low class appeal of Tony Robbins to give the secrets of success that can be applied more broadly with out becoming like the shop worn, over exposed Tony Robbins.But this is a great chapter.<br />Some superstars have been so over exposed that their enthusiasm seems shallow and insincere, yet enthusiasm and humor are so critical to successful speaking there is still a lot to be learned from each of these superstar speakers. Their most commonly sighted defense against the over exposed speaker being a turn off is to know your subject better than anybody else and be current and relevant to the audience. Many of the superstars have examples to constantly test yourself for being the same person before and after a speech as you are  in the speech. Many make the point that: While you may perform with the benefit of acting techniques, you must be only one character-- the real you.<br />The second chapter on Dyer. He borrows from  the Eastern religions with out any reference. Dyer seems afraid he will alienate the Western religion oriented person. Why be concerned? Eastern religions are twice as old as Christianity and contributed richly. Dyer may want to give the impression they are Dyer generated insights but the reader could be alerted that he is drawing on a vast amount of revered literature from the East. It was one of my favorite chapters.<br />Brian Tracy reveals a fanatic for a detailed plan, and think positive no mater what. Tracy takes positive thinking to an obsessive level. He would replace positive thinking by positive knowing. <br />Art Linkletter was famous before he started relying on speaking as his dominant source of income. Why he violates the rule of only writing on those that first became famous through speaking is never explained. It is clear that he likes Linkletter and shows him to be on of the down to earth famous people of all time. Linkletter confesses fame is the easiest way to be a full time money making speaker. Second to fame the most important factor is to practice and practice. Third is to take an intense interest in each individual when ever possible.<br />Leo Buscaglia different than many other speakers cares so much about making a personalized connection that he is uniquely approachable after a speech. It is noted that his 13 books have sold 18 million copies and &quot;Loving Each Other&quot; was one of the better selling books of the 1980's. It is interesting that the last chapter is on this great contributor to the study of: &quot;how to be a better you.&quot;	2001-03-13
US	51107805	R1RCPOFFEWWHXS	0385234651	332381427	2,000 Sure-Fire Jokes for Speakers: The Encyclopedia of One-Liner Comedy	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Ancient Reprint is Showing Its Age	This reprint of a 1971 book is showing its age. A lot of jokes have context that the current reader can not know or relate to. I wonder if a lot of them were that good at the time. As a reference it may have current value when looking for a joke in a specific context. All the jokes are by subject. The only Sure Fire is to burn this book. It is fascinating to see what you can sell once you get a name. I have belatedly discovered that jokes books are not of much value in public speaking. At two jokes per penny it is more that twice as expensive than &quot;3500 Good Jokes for Speakers by Gerald F Lieberman&quot; See my review of that book.	2001-02-20
US	51107805	R2G43QV5M6Z686	0521595835	994248931	The American Economy: The Struggle for Supremacy in the 21st Century (Cambridge Studies in Economic Policies and Institutions)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Deceptive Title. Nothing Special Here.	Throughout the book, there is a careful discussion of planned economy versus free market guided economy. It carefully frames the discussion as follows. A partially planned economy may be a good idea say some writers. He shows that if the largely planned economies have consistently failed, how can some one argue that a little bit of planning will be successful. He shows how well known liberal economists that think a little bit of government planning will be good are really lazy thinkers. He refers to the powerful accuracy of the market place in preparing the economy for the future and discusses the place for government regulation. One day someone will write a book explaining how poorly boards of directors and top management forecast the future for planning purposes. But given the greater knowledge on the micro pieces of the economy by corporate officials and investors, their chances of foretelling the future is far greater than government officials. The market place works in amazing ways. He rejects the desire of some economists to see decline as the future of the American economy if governmental planning does not address the bogeyman created in the minds of the liberal views he discusses. He holds fast to the expectation that the impulses and incentives of the private economy assure long term growth. The federal government has a role in monetary policy, fiscal sensitivity to the business cycle and environmental regulation. Partnerships between governmental officials and industry have a record of doing more harm than good.<br />For the first 200 pages, the book does provide a sleepy review of the American Economy in comparison to Japan, German and Europe for the period of 1947 to 1989. Big picture comparative data does not provide much insight. In a review of the economy since WWII, there is an attempt at comparing the economy under all the presidential administrations. It leaves out what is happening in congress and at the Federal Reserve. An economist should know better than to ascribe excessive economic powers to the respective presidents. The process is drawn out to show Democratic bias for government directed planning for the economy and the Republican commitment to market directed forces. He takes the Clinton administration to task for its heavy handed bias for government planning.<br />The first printing of the book is 1995 and yet the data in the book stops at 1990. Did the author die or vegetate. What ever the reason potential buyers should have been warned of its dated status at first printing. <br />The book's subtitle &quot;The Struggle for Supremacy in the 21st Century&quot; appears to be a belated addendum to help sell a book with a very shallow purpose. The chapter on Government-Business Relationship is lifeless particularly in its treatment of research and development and technology. The author is oblivious to the applied technology  engine that is drive economic progress in many areas-- thanks to the venture capital community. He reveals a bias that university originated research is what really counts. In the long-run it is the vital raw material, but the venture capital applications that draw on any country (even  the former Soviet Union science) are what is so uniquely American.  <br />The book is not well written. It has ponderous sentence and paragraph construction. On many subjects a laundry list of topics are brought up but not dealt with in any depth. There is very little in the book about the struggle for supremacy in the past, current or about the future struggle. There is a message that the American economy keeps on winning due to its free market driven status, but there is little stimulating thought about the future of much of anything.	2001-02-20
US	51107805	RNMG6B02HKTJH	0740709968	38251036	Dick Enberg's Humorous Quotes For All Occasions	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Pleasant Joke Book	The easiest way to become a famous speaker is to become famous and then start speaking for money. People don't care how well they speak and laugh at any joke by a famous person. It can even be a very old stolen joke. When they write speech books or joke books you have to wonder what to take seriously. Enberg recommends starting a talk immediately with self- deprecation. Better advise is in their one liner on page 42. &quot;Don't be humble. You are not that great.&quot;-- Golda Meir<br />What makes this better than many other joke books for speakers, is that each category is started out by a few pages on how you might use subsequent type of humor. The theme getting the reader to understand that it is better to use your own humorous experiences. If you are not yet creative in humor, don't just steal somebody else's one-liner innovate a new twist to it or help it stimulate your own creation. I recommend that you learn how to start from scratch with your own stories.  Check out my review of Using Stories and Humor by Joanna Slan.  Enberg's reference book might help get the juices but it can't replace it. Buy them both-its not high finance dollars... I started reading on public speaking in September 2000. I rushed to buy three joke books. I discovered quickly that reading humor manuals and joke books is not very useful. So I skipped them and started reading on public speaking ( currently over two dozen books). Now Christmas is over and I have two more as gifts. Now I have five joke books to read. They are boring. Its like the left over turkey. You think it is fun to eat leftovers. Then you remember why you do not eat turkey the rest of the year. I am now reading these humor books on the theory that they will help me create humor or at least innovate from their starting point.	2001-02-20
US	51107805	R17UHSO2TZCE2B	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	4	8	N	N	All the Fuss About A Fable? Take a Fresh Look.	Even if you resent the thrust of this book as do many reviewers and corporate recipients, there are reasons to read it. The ancient use of fables that this book utilizes is to simplify and impersonalize the issues so that an evaluation can be made. You might call it a way to turn human relations into something like arithmetic. Life is far more complicated than a fable. The fable should allow you to think without emotional baggage. After all, no one is suggesting anything is true or relevant in a fable it is up to you to decide. Because the book has stirred up so much emotions and sales for the author and publisher, we are going to see a lot more fables in books. I suspect many will be better written and offer more comprehensive insight.<br />The books popularity as a gift to employees is fascinating.  Given the emphasis on individual action to be one of the good characters in the fable, the message is forget team work, forget the company, take care of your family and self-- no matter what it takes. The company has little responsibility to you. Management and boards of directors have slowly learned that their responsibility is to the shareholders-end of story. I have thought for sometime that middle management and employees that would awaken to the reality that their is very little reason for loyalty to the corporation. The popularity of this book with top managements would indicate that they are ready to speak plainly, perhaps they can't handle the emotional baggage of what happens to employees and they want to set the contract down with complete clarity. The loyalty of the corporation is from paycheck to paycheck and the employee should not take offense. If you can find a better deal outside the company you will be gone. If you are there for the next paycheck, you did not find a better deal. More than ever before, a management that pays less than the replacement value of an employee is foolish.<br />The changes that face corporations are dramatically greater than even a decade ago. Managers have always had trouble seeing change-just look at any group of long-term stock price charts randomly selected. Because CEOs are not very good at anticipating change, boards of directors are replacing CEOs at a much faster rate than ever before. Society at all levels has to deal with much greater rates of change-- much more widespread and profound than anything suggested by this book.<br />Morality and ethics at the level of the individual needs to be strengthened and factored into who you employ, who you follow and who you vote for more than ever before because the future is more uncertain as well as more exciting.	2001-02-20
US	51107805	RV647LLW3O4TN	0385005458	597800329	3,500 Good Jokes for Speakers: A Treasury of Jokes, Puns, Quips, One Liners and Stories that Will Keep Anyone Laughing	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Five Jokes Per Penny. Any Takers?	At the rate of 5 jokes per penny how could this book not be a good deal? The jokes by now are very dated. It is really a history of what used to be funny. The problem is you have to search through so many old jokes to find one you might use. I have belatedly discovered that jokes books are not of much value in public speaking. Using other peoples old jokes could really ruin your image. May be this book is good for a humor historian. It may be useful in stimulating your own joke creation. All in all for some the book is worth the price, just be sure you can accept all the clutter before you buy it. The editorial reviews are deceptive--look out.	2001-01-27
US	51107805	R31GZ00UGO145F	0806994444	943452154	Roasts & Toasts: Snappy One-Liners for Every Occasion	Books	1	1	2	N	N	A Book on How to Lose Friends and Deflate People	There are hardly any toasts in the book. How many times have you been involved in a roast compared to a toast or impromptu compliment. The title of the book is totally misleading. It should be &quot;One Liners in Search of Their Once in a Lifetime Moment.&quot; The only persons that should buy this book is that rare individual that is involved in roasts or that even rarer person that has far too many friends.  Use the one liners in this book and your friends are sure to disappear. Or you run with a really strange crowd. I know a couple of strange people that I could give the book to, but  should I encourage them.	2001-01-26
US	51107805	R1TJQ2BZPRTOTN	0691050627	373262786	Irrational Exuberance	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Profoundly Important Book�More Topical Then Its 1st Day!	The bearer of bad news in society, in a company, in a group is most of the time treated badly. This rule of human nature shows up in many of the previous reviews of this book. Given the decline in the equity markets since the publication of this book, the reason  I am reading this book again is to consider whether the market correction is sufficient. The book originally contributed to my courage to be conservative on the market and hence was one of the most valuable books I have ever read.<br />On December 5, 1996 Chairman Alan Greenspan used the phrase &quot;Irrational Exuberance&quot; when speaking of his deep concern about the high level of stock prices -- not as a forecast but as a long term threat to economic soundness. Why Greenspan weakened in resolve, is barely addressed in this book. The question of why Greenspan started his Federal Reserve board tenure speaking gravely of the need for no inflation (meaning zero inflation not 2-3% inflation) and then weakened and accommodated  2-3% inflation for the next ten years is not even addressed in this book.  The book even fails to address the impact on stock price levels of ten years of excessive monetary growth. The book clearly speaks to the public policy issue that there has to be a reckoning for the excessive stock price levels.<br />Having made my living in the stock market investment business for more than forty years, the book for me reads easily. I believe the average reader can get through the book with very few uses of a dictionary. It is well written for the average reader. It is cleanly organized. It starts out with a powerful statistical case. It follows with a review  of nearly every imaginable consideration of the severity of general market volatility.  The fourth chapter &quot;The News Media&quot; is written with such courage and clarity. It seems to me so profound-it by its self justifies the purchase of the book. It lays out the true motives of the media. Every citizen, investor or conservative saver should read it.<br />Several bone headed media people have argued that America's savings rate is seriously understated because stock market ownership is not included in the savings. After reading this book you should be able to vividly see the difference. If not already be thinking seriously as to when does the purchase of stocks become a speculation or out right gambling. Speculation is accepting high risk because it offers a risk reward balance. Gambling in stocks is not understanding this balance. Investing is buying with a basis for believing you have fair value in your favor. The discussion on gambling habits in society and the stock market is superb. The last chapter: A Call to Action &quot;Speculative Volatility in a Free Society&quot; is so pathetic in insight that I suggest that you read it first or forswear never to read it. Otherwise it is such a let down ending to the book as to be seriously irritating.<br />As the author has already been vindicated in the market place and the book is written in a scholarly manner, I can't think of any reason why an equity investor would not read this book. If you don't it seems that you would be in a state of denial. There are so many new avenues to consider in this book that it is one of those books that an investor will keep the rest of their life and read it several times.	2001-01-22
US	51107805	R1FQ5RV86KIS8S	0471163147	65812639	How to Be a Great Communicator: In Person, on Paper, and on the Podium	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Want to be Spoon Feed? This Is YOUR BOOK!	The book is constantly on the edge of being all fluff. It lacks depth. This book takes the few important things Qubein chooses to share and ever so gently goes over the details. The author talks directly and softly without being chatty. This would be a very good book for a very young reader that wants to learn about public speaking. For adults, looking for a book to practice speed reading and skimming, the book is a truly outstanding. While it is well written and well organized, there is hardly ever a challenging thought. You should be able to read this book at the speed of light. Speed reading and skimming are valuable skills. Personally, I like books that have content density but are well written. Reading this book slowly would be a waste of time. Nearly all books that are made easy to read had an author that is careful not to say to much. This is one of those books manufactured for money. There was no passion to write it. See some of my two dozen reviews on public speaking for a  better selection. How did all the excitement and pretense about Nido Qubein develop, certainly not this book. I am anxious to see him speak. I would like to see what makes him famous. <br />My biggest new lesson from this book was as follows. So many authors on public speaking try to tell us an audience has one mind or a personality, Qubein says: Everybody in the audience is different, an individual. Audience evaluation is not dividing people into bunches. <br />No offense intended but Qubein expresses a lot of opinions about the business world that are more pie in the sky than based on experience. American business is not well managed, it is just a whale of a lot better than other businesses around the globe. The media and Qubein want to make chief executive officers out to be Stars. Most CEOs bring a lot of limiting baggage to the job. Qubein is on the right track as to were management style should be headed. Corporate loyalty has been destroyed by shortsighted CEOs and boards of directors. It is going to take a lot more cash in the monthly pay check to hold a good middle management together in the future. Start ups and self employment are sucking the best out of big corporations, because the insensitive Huns are still in control. My opinions are based upon interviewing and tracking top management of hundreds of companies over decades for leading investment firms.	2001-01-15
US	51107805	R2B1ASOUVN4BYU	0205273009	922941948	Writing Great Speeches: Professional Techniques You Can Use (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	88	90	N	N	Best Public Speaking Book for analytical &amp; intense reader	In architecture schools considerable time is spent on materials for building. The potential of the materials determines what can be built and how it will look and feel. How is it that other public speaking books spend so little time on choosing the right word. Perlman spends a great deal of effort on teaching how to find and select the right word. He demonstrates how the right word for speaking is different than the right word for written communication. You can be a great writer without being a good speaker, but you can't be a great speaker without being a good writer.<br />&quot;Writing Great Speeches&quot; is for the analytical or educated reader that can handle a fast and furious pace. A direct approach on how to research and construct well organized speeches. Should be ranked high on anybody's list of excellent books on public speaking. It is the best book in the &quot;Essence of Public Speaking Series.&quot; Excellent guidance on how to start writing a speech where you are knowledgeable on the subject and how to research areas that are not your expertise. Excellent chapter on how to pick exactly the right word and why it is important.<br />No other book covers demonstrating legitimate creditability as well as Perlman. He focuses in on exactly how to write great speeches. Like a fast moving train you are carried down the track of learning the skills with overpowering intensity.<br />The Appendix of Aids to Quick Creditability is worth the price of the book. It is a refreshing list of reference books the provide a map to rapidly gaining knowledge on any subject.<br />If you are like me nearly every book I read is disappointing in its content and /or its clarity and hence we read many books when a subject is important to us. Extremely rare do we find books so insightful and tightly written that we read it many times. These special books are so important that they will always stand out in your memory.  This may be that book on public speaking for crafting the speech.	2001-01-11
US	51107805	R1F19UIFM8Y8MQ	0205268145	460639506	Speaking Your Way to the Top: Making Powerful Business Presentations (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Best Book on Business Presentations	While not in sales-ever, I have made more than 10,000 business presentations to groups outside the organization. The group size ranged from a few to many people. I have attended even more presentations than I have given. Overall, this is the best book on business presentations that I have read thus far and it is likely to be one of the best books on the subject when I have read even more books on the subject. Treatment of team presentations and video conferencing was very good. The discussion of hand outs to the audience is excellent. The review of all types of visual aids is very good. The author does a superb job reviewing the use of slides that is so overdone. Admonishment to keep jargon to a minimum is very correct.<br />Using stories and anecdotes is handled comprehensively. Humor is hard to use in a business environment. When you are sure it is going to work it is very effective, it is risky as the author discusses.  The work on delivery techniques and gestures is good. The brief discussion on stage fright is O.K. The idea of ending stage fright forever is unrealistic. Always be aiming for the that big opportunity that will bring the butterflies right back. The tools to beat nerves need to be in constant development. No author has done a great job on the subject. The most important technique is to become a leading expert on your subject and yet this is rarely mentioned.<br />This book has substance, is nicely organized and well written. The author exudes credibility with humility. Compared to the more than two dozen books on speaking read in recent months, this is one of the best. The areas that I wish I would have gotten help on earlier are using emotional appeals and personal stories for a highly sophisticated audience.	2001-01-05
US	51107805	R3H555GABUXII5	0205268110	758471520	Involving Your Audience: Making It Active (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Best Starter Book For Trainer/Speakers	The more informed or sophisticated your audience-- the more important the question and answer period. If you are a high level speaker the question and answer period (Q&amp;A) is the make or break phase. If you audiences is boards of directors or highly developed professionals and you are searching for information on Q&amp;A periods, you have a problem. You are stuck with this book until something better comes along. We have every reason to expect Q&amp;A to be extensively covered in public speaking books. In the last few months I have read and reviewed two dozen books on speaking. The reality is in all cases Q&amp;A is rarely mentioned. This book devotes a whole chapter to Q&amp;A. The only book that I have found. Is not the barren coverage of Q&amp;A amazing? While the key to Q&amp;A is knowing the subject and confining the session to the area you want to be accountable for, technical advise from a professional speaker might be worthwhile. The chapter on problem people in the audience is also worth reading.<br />The rest of the book is disappointing. While this book is a good starting point for the trainer oriented speaker, from cover to cover this book is jam packed full of fluff. The strong tendency to touch upon topics without adding any strong insight is constantly frustrating. I wonder if the editorial process dumbed down the book or is the author really insecure about her ability to teach sophisticated public speaking. Such a passion for dividing people into groups and categories-I wonder why. It seems so degrading to the author. From the title and reviews I was hoping for some bold work on &quot;Involving Your Audience&quot; creatively. Getting the audience physically active in a realistic way gets modest treatment in this book. :(<br />Questionnaire to send to organization before presentation is interesting. Chapter on visual aids seems shallow, but it is a starting point for the novice and as a tickler file. The section on story telling is a good introduction, but author clearly does not provide enough detail when telling her own stories. Details make stories come alive. It is not the clinical circumstances. Story telling treatment in &quot;Using Stories and Humor by Joanna Slan&quot; is vastly superior.<br />There is enough coverage on how to warm up your speech and interacting with the audience at the basics level that this book has to be rated as the best book as the starting point for trainer/speakers.	2001-01-03
US	51107805	R2T74PWB58VSFB	0134904001	246346450	Speak and Grow Rich	Books	5	16	23	N	N	The Ultimate Book on the Speaking Industry	IF YOU ARE NOT FAMOUS: Assuming you have a passion about speaking for money. Take speech classes. Join Toastmasters Int'l. If you think the prime goal is to develop high skill on the podium. You have fallen into a serious trap. Your message or unrivaled expertise is the critical ingredient. Don't look for this book to define your subject if you found it by reading this book it would be mundane and shallow. The authors don't know what is going to be hot until it sells then they will help you sell it through their speakers bureau.  After you have developed a message and some good skill it is time to find service groups and speak as much as you can for free. After giving meaningful speeches for free about 50 to a 100 times, you may be ready to start charging a modest fee.  After you are speaking about as much as you can handle then you can start looking at raising your fees. After you have given about a 100 speeches  for a fee of $2000 or more per hour, then a speakers bureau such as the authors' might consider working with you. The ethics of a speakers bureau is clearly at or below that of an executive search firm. Normally, successful speakers work with several speaker bureaus. If one bureau lies to a client to capture a fee or commission from a speaker or from another speaker bureau, the author expects you to stay out of it in all circumstances. One bureau will do anything to kill a deal if they are not involved-much like an executive search firm. The goal is to open up a slot where it can then offer an alternative and earn a fee.<br />Given the authors expertise it seems likely that the speaker is well ahead if they knuckles under to the speakers bureau. Even at that, there is considerable risk if you surrender to the wrong speakers bureau. A contract with a speakers bureau is complex and full of pitfalls if you use more than one bureau-as is the case for most speakers. Despite all the problems, you need to understand the speakers bureau and work honestly with them.<br />The book is full of how to run the business of being a speaker from you first serious non-fee speech to your ultimate level of success-high or low. This book is very valuable for carefully evaluating what you are getting into by going into the speaker business.<br />It should be obvious that an hour of quality speaking material that will be competitive involves hundreds of hours of work and potentially a long gestation period. This investment requires a topic that can be recycled over and over to many audiences. <br />IF YOU ARE FAMOUS: If you are famous and your life finds you with available time, you really should consider speaking for good money. If you are famous you don't have to be particularly good on initial speeches but you do have to promptly develop speaking skills and commitment. Once you have made the rounds the repeat engagements have to be sharply better. The following comments about three famous people are my own (not the authors). A lot of people thought Ronald Reagan (prior to his political career) was washed up because acting was no longer going to be a significant part of his life. He found that he had a message about America and the world and began a speaking campaign. He was getting paid big money, many assumed it was for the money. It was also about love of country and humanity and he went on to very positively change the world.  Gen. Colin Powell did not see speaking for big money as degrading but saw it is chance to get to know Americans better and sharpen his thinking. His future-facilitated by public speaking-is exceedingly bright.  One comedic actor between television series, put it this way. &quot;As long as people are holding big checks for me all over the country , I think I should go pick them up.&quot;<br />As a famous person you have the upper hand over the speakers bureaus and may even use an exclusive agent-not speaker bureaus (except as brokers). Even at that just using the speakers bureaus, may be the smarter move. You will need to know a lot about the business of speaking even if you hire help as well as a good agent. This looks like a very valuable book for that starting point. It is the book's highest calling.<br />FOR THE CASUAL READER: This book will teach you how the fast growing speaker business is growing in leaps and bounds and how it may be changing with technology. The book is well organized and easy to read. One can not help but wonder why these very successful authors tolerate so many misspelled words. The words that are real words but in the wrong spot and can't be caught by a spell checker are easy to chuckle about and then forget. But why the many that are not a word under any circumstances? Is the book just a little business tool and not that important to the author?	2000-12-28
US	51107805	R2A5PSJ3GIMYO7	0671724002	183607890	The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking	Books	5	117	123	N	N	If You Going to Read Only One Book on Speaking�This is it.	The book has been reworked so may times and improved by the experiences of the Dale Carnegie Organization. That is what makes this book so good. This last revision by Dorothy Carnegie based on Mr. Carnegie's notes and plans is benefited by a strong editorial approach. The most important persistent advise is to talk about things you care about and are extremely knowledgeable about. Be excited about the subject or pick a new topic. Find every opportunity to speak and prepare for each one as a major opportunity. It tells how to limit your subject so that you have time to fill in the details that make it a winning talk. It guides you on how to personalize the speech and use words that have impact. The easy introduction to the methods of studying and understanding your audience are very important. It makes a good start on the field of audience participation. This book provides excellent advise on rehearsal.<br />This book along with every other speaking book drives home the point that there is no such thing as a good impromptu talk unless you were very lucky. In reality you work on subjects and material with a plan to use it at some future time. When you are speaking there are many things to watch. If you speak impromptu on a new subject some thing is going to suffer.<br />Introducing a speaker or presenting an award seems to stimulate reckless behavior much like the cutting desire to hurt people of newscasters. This book explains why this behavior is so short sighted.<br />Having read a Dale Carnegie book decades ago, I put off reading this book for fear it would be full of positive thinking dribble.  This book is completely straight forward in style. It is in textbook format, but it is extremely easy too read. The examples of actual students and successful speakers get a little shallow sometimes. The outstanding thumbnail review of each part of the book is very helpful. I have read 21 books on public speaking. Right now this book is my leading candidate for someone that is only interested in reading one book on public speaking. It just happens to be a very low price.	2000-12-22
US	51107805	R2C7L6ISTJ9VAG	0071346104	863497299	Strictly Speaking	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Best Book on Speaking of 20 I have read and reviewed	No book on speaking does a better job on what to do immediately prior to a speech and the first minute of a speech. Among this advise is the reason for not beginning a speech with a joke. It is clearly spelled out. For those that have not had Toastmaster club experience and don't intend to enjoy that experience, the author's first commandment is worth the price of the book. &quot;The very first paragraph of your talk should shock the audience with its complexity and difficulty, or with its outrageousness.&quot;  He challenges the reader to be creative and original in supporting the edge put on your topic by serious research---or &quot;go mutter someplace in private.&quot; When you are writing you have to be very careful with your approach, but when you speak you should play the more emotional side of the argument or aim at the core. Hit them at the gut level. &quot;Go for the jugular.&quot;<br />His chapter 3 on Speaking Obligations Related to Your Business or Profession is exceptional. I have yet to find any book on speaking that gives such sound insightful advise for the high level or top management speaker. I am cautioning you that while the author whines about obscure business terminology, your dictionary will be you constant companion in reading this book. The kettle has called the pot black. In chapter 10 (How to Write...Brilliantly.) his rule 5 is: Set your thoughts down in the simplest language possible. Again, when ever you read this book you will need the dictionary at hand. Sometimes the fancy word choice improves the meaning after you have studied the new word. What does it say about the rule if the author can't be bothered with it. Maybe it is all about the Buckley family style of writing and speaking with words that others don't use so as to prove that they are well educated... well beyond their degrees.<br />The author's sixth commandment is: Be not only succinct, be brief. Their is easily 50 to 100 pages that could have be cut out of this book. Sometimes I was happy that the book was not shortened, because I liked the way that he told his stories He places a high value on humility and nonchalant manner on the platform.  The author has the clearest reason's why you should request a Q&amp;A period at all times.<br />In discussing Expanding Your Cultural Base, he explains why you should be well read--to be an excellent speaker. His unique discussion on why you should read diverse sources and subjects is distinctive to him in its clarity. Other speech books encourage reading one non-fiction book per week. Another book admonishes us to read five daily newspapers and several magazines. He is the only one that offers the challenge that with a little thoughtful selection you will be building sources of material for future speeches immediately. Most importantly, when you read far afield from your area of expertise you are certain to improve the creativity of your mind. He, further, encourages music, art, seeing things first hand and talking to diverse people as vital to improving your creative potential. Chapter 6 on finding Ideas you are passionate about is outstanding.<br />No author has handled bias better. He says: Of course he is biased in some areas and so are you,the reader. It is part of what makes us interesting.<br />The six chapters on the Mechanics of Speaking are incredibly good.	2000-12-16
US	51107805	R2GYT8NSUTEOPT	0205270263	767155564	Speaking for Profit and Pleasure: Making the Platform Work for You (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Best First Book on Speaking for Profit	Well written and well organized. The cover and the Editorial Review are honest reviews-refreshing.  Book is neatly broken down into three parts. 1. Why People Speak 2. Growing as a Speaker and 3. The Business of Speaking. Chapter 7 (Avocational Speakers) is a wonderful review on how to take the first steps toward getting known as an excellent speaker and being in demand as a speaker locally. It evaluates the process in excellent detail and lists in Appendix F Some Associations That Engage Unpaid Speakers.  A particularly targeted audience of this book is how to use Toastmasters International as the jumping off point and were to find other coaching and training. Then, how to step out of that organization to further develop along the path toward considering making money from public speaking. Different than other &quot;Get Rich Quick by Speaking&quot; books, he does not glamorize the process to sell a book. There is no wasted time on the subject of how the rich and famous can make money speaking. The book is devoted to finding a way to profit if you simply get good at speaking. He covers why you need to be an expert on something of interest to get chances to speak. The book helps you sort through the process of finding the topics, audience and eventually get paid. One book lists the currently popular topics for paid speakers and says do one of these topics. This book encourages you to find your own topic and work toward finding the audience that will pay for it.  This task is covered in considerable detail. In a prior reviews of authors sponsored by Toastmasters International the books can be a disappointment. This one is not.	2000-12-03
US	51107805	R1JDA7X9XMZ5FZ	0440509017	905657029	The Promise of Sleep: A Pioneer in Sleep Medicine Explores the Vital Connection Between Health, Happiness, and a Good Night's Sleep	Books	5	51	58	N	N	An Extremely Important Book	Their sure are some strange negative reviews and some very positive ones on this book. I am extremely positive on this book.  Of course, the book is too wordy and has too many human interest stories for the accomplished reader.  Have not these people learned to read more rapidly when they get it and more slowly when they don't?  Look at what the author said and did.  He said the subject needs to be understood by everybody--not just his professional colleagues.  He selects a co-author that has the skills to make book accessible to the lay person.<br />Why is sleep important? In this book you will learn that you are probably shortening your life span by poor sleep.  Accidents from poor sleep are about as serious as drugs and alcohol.  There are sleep diseases that MD's are doing a poor job on--particularly apnea.  Most parents are failing to protect their teen age children from serious health problems and school performance problems through careless guidance on sleep.  People are damaging their careers by poor sleep.  How could this not be an important book for the average person.  Their is no reason that MD's should not read this book.  They ought to at least go far enough into the subject that they start reading professionally and stop letting their patients die from the doctors lack of knowledge about sleep. The lack of citations in the book is missed by the accomplished, interested reader.<br />The discussion of chemical events that transpire during sleep helped me understand how to start managing my sleep problems.  The detailed discussion about normal sleep is really excellent.  He gives me a renewed understanding about learning how the healthy human body works by understanding disease. It so easy to forget that the study of disease is tightly related to understanding the healthy human.<br />The paperback edition not only has an index it has two excellent appendix. One lists all the worthy sleep centers in the USA.  This alone could save many lives as their areso many MD's that are failing to diagnose sleep problems. The appendix that summarizes the various sleep disorders is excellent.  Don't let a few goofy reviews distract you from seriously considering this book. I have reread some parts of this book several times. I have given several speeches largely based on this book. This is one of the ten most important books in recent decades.	2000-12-01
US	51107805	R2N9Y1CFE85PS4	0793123526	970410513	Toastmaster's International Guide to Successful Speaking: Overcoming Your Fears, Winning over Your Audience, Building Your Business & Career	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Finally a Speech Book for Geeks !	There is no passion to write an excellent book here. It might be a good book for geeks.  Perhaps Chapter 4 (Engaging Audience) is the reason that I am left with this feeling. That chapter is particularly shallow. Or may be because the author Jefff Slutsky uses the powerful phrase &quot;street fighter&quot; so banally.  The book is often very superficial in its advise. Just one example at bottom of page 30. &quot;Humor should be funny.&quot; The title of this books touts three objectives. Overcoming fear is one of them. It never gets around to fear in any meaningful way. It is an easy book to read but partly because it does not get intense about any subject. This is a good book if you are going to be talking to very conventional run of the mill crowds where you can be contrived and shallow because you are not going to develop into a great speaker.  If you address high powered people this is not the book for you.  Co-author Michael Aun won the Toastmasters International championship in 1978.  I have listened to this speech several times and it is greatness.  Just to be a finalist is a glory--ardently admired. To win is beyond my ability to extol sufficient respect. Their are many good points to this book but they are found in quiet little places and if you have read a number of books on speaking this book can be read to advantage.	2000-11-30
US	51107805	R2NAX12K2QQ93J	1573590002	813841548	Speak Easy: A Guide to Successful Performances, Presentations, Speeches, and Lectures	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fear Of Speaking Gets Comprehensive Review	First two chapters provide comprehensive review of the fear of public speaking. If you have a serious problem with fear of speaking this is an excellent book to start with. The author slices and dices fear with great detail. The book provides considerable detail on handling your arrival on the stage and your exit.  While other books may have a more complete review of speaking as a performance, this is a good beginning. If you really have something to say, the added polish of learning how to perform is probably good incremental advise.  The almost mystical review of how to treat an audience seems to spin out of touch with the book's objectives. Empathy with the audience needs more treatment in this book than talking of it as energy work. About chapter six on How to Create a Performing Persona, the book runs out of steam.  You will start wishing that the author would expand further on the topics. It becomes too cryptic.	2000-11-26
US	51107805	RPBBWEX37KJ9O	0070011648	618867687	How to Make a Speech	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Nice Book for the Lazy Reader	The easiest book to read-- ever.  It feels like a face to face conversation. Allen was best known as a comedian and television host/producer.  He wrote more songs than an one else according to the Guinness  Book of World Records.  As a highly paid speaker, he has credibility as a writer of a speech book.  His advice on stage fright seems the most well round and useful I have run across.  It is not a book about humor, but there is a good chapter on the subject.  He has great advice about speech rehearsal. Advise on researching, writing, and editing speech is superior to many other authors. The four final chapters that would only be of value to a famous person that chooses to pick up extra money speaking.  Almost no matter what made you famous you can extend your good earnings life by speaking for money.  Steve Allen, when he was alive and in this book, did a great public service by trying to help performers understand that the use of foul language degrades their effectiveness not soley because it is bad form but because they are weak words that convey little extra meaning. His broader appeal to use the English language as the high art form that it is, has not been put forward by enough authors of speech books...	2000-11-19
US	51107805	RSFBPVPYJQBNS	0205268935	72667624	Using Stories and Humor: Grab Your Audience (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Outstanding Book On Public Speaking	This is one of the most valuable books on public speaking that I have read.  Before you buy a book on one liners, joke book or how to keep them laughing. Read this book and find  out how to develop your own personal stories. I took it page by page and found that I had an amazing number of stories to develop.  As she says: Your own stories will ring true. I know a CEO of a large company that starts each speech with a very dumb joke that he seems to think works.  He must pay a lot to his speech writer. In real life people laugh at old jokes that are O.K., but they are still old.  I have been crafting my own stories after reading this book. It makes me sound like a more interesting person than I am. It has got to be a lot fresher material, Im the only one that lived it.  I bought a bunch of joke books early on and I wish I could get my money back.  They become boring so fast. The only story worth telling is one that is relevant to your point. That is where this book comes in.  The book details so many aspects of humor. How to use humor. Where it comes from. Shaping stories. The best in the Essence of Public Speaking Series.	2000-11-17
US	51107805	R160DLGY8YLJ8	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A Stimulating Book	The book spends a lot of time and effort comparing the human brain to a computer system. However, the author makes it clear that the brain is importantly neural and not linear. It is very helpful to look at his theories  on how the brain uses experience too come too good answers without using conscious logic. While science may currently or in the future dispute the comparison to a computer system, it helped me develop some understanding of how the brain works.  If you don't understand how computers. software, input devices and artificial intelligence works there may be times when you miss the point. This is not a self help book. It is probably not a book you can draw a lot of conclusions from but it does stimulate a lot of possible insights.  The book is far too wordy. I want to know the subject not the author. There must be a better book on the subject for the average intelligent reader, but I have not found it.	2000-11-17
US	51107805	R1QOKMTWIHM8Y1	0814478271	952527225	How to Be the Life of the Podium: Openers, Closers & Everything in Between to Keep Them Listening	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Good Handbook for Ideas	This is more of a reference book than a how to give a speech book.  It give lots of useable one liners, proverbs, fables, tales and how to pick on people tastefully. A lot of it is useable but more importantly it give you the insights of how and why they work so that you can create your own. Your own will better fit the situation. It gives 15 excellent mini speech bits that can be adapted to your own use.  The author provides excellent advise on rehearsal of speeches.  The main points are: do lots of it and do it out loud-- and much more about rehearsal. My own modest objection to the author's speech style is recommending or offering weak segues into stories and examples.  If your are famous like Winston Churchill, Bob Dole or Will Rogers, you can be self deprecating.  For us nobodies, we have to speak with clarity, conviction, well and short. We may not get another chance. If you have to apologize or make excuses for something you are about to say, you are making a mistake.(This refers to the repeated style of how the author recoends segues.  The author emphasizes that you should spend a lot of time on the opening and closing.  However, a lot of the closings seemed rather weak.  Bottom line the book is worth getting a hold of as a good reference.	2000-11-17
US	51107805	R2KXJH46JVP5PU	155821965X	5750923	Scientific American Book of the Brain	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A Book Worthy Of Your Consideration	Let us be fair to this book. It is the reprint of 28 articles from Scientific American that spanned the seven years prior  to the publication of this book.  The magazine is not designed to publish ground breaking research for the accomplished person in that specific field. True to its tradition, it makes subjects accessible to the generalist that may not other wise be read or found.  Many of us by reading Scientific American, have had important new areas opened up to further study.  Decades ago its article on smoking and cancer was an important public service.  These articles on the brain, consciousness, intelligence, mind, memory and learning could help you find other avenues of further reading. As always, Scientific American makes it readable enough that you are not entirely lost in specialized vocabulary. Research on the brain is moving so fast that we will all want to know much more very soon.  This is not the owner's manual for the brain it is a place to begin for the non-technical person.	2000-11-04
US	51107805	RX9HLNWRQL8K3	1559586915	173739763	Better Speeches in Ten Simple Steps, Revised 2nd Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Good Basic Book on Public Speaking	Author drives home the need for preparation of script or outline. This book is not a pep talk nor does it have a motivational bent. It is well written. Did any of Ronald Reagan's speech writers not write a book.  Different than most public speaking books, he leaves you to pick your own words and gestures for the most part.  He focuses on being who you are and making the most of it.  If you are a clear cut expert in the areas you intend to speak on this is the book for you because it is short and sweat and covers the critical basics without trying to make you over.	2000-11-03
US	51107805	R2FZXCGVMQU4VQ	0028614526	490498775	The Elements of Speechwriting and Public Speaking	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Written Like An Engineer!	Extremely easy to read and very well organized. Author has relevant examples and whole book is straight forward style with out the usual pontificating, pompous approach of most writers of public speaking books. Written like an engineer-no mushy soft stuff.  Best discussion of any book on merits of each type of script (Word for word, traditional outline, key word outline, pictograph).Excellent discussion of body mechanics and eye contact tips. Excellent chapter on humor and how and when to use it.	2000-11-01
US	51107805	R3LY407KBDBYZD	0471321591	455703522	7 Steps to Fearless Speaking	Books	5	18	23	N	N	This book will build your confidence in speaking.	I recommend this book as one of your first books to read on public speaking along with Simply Speaking  by Peggy Noonan. 7 Steps is more complete and more like a text book to read. Wilder is a writer that uplifts you and encourages you rather than talking down to you like some other speach books by well known authors.  Interestingly, the book begins and ends with your voice as an instrument of vocal production.  Most other speech book writers don't address how to make your voice sound better. They take the: &quot;Live with it approach.&quot;  Great singers practice and practice on the sound itself. Why not speakers.  May be they don't know any better or their publisher says: &quot;too complicated.&quot; This author knows but does not overwhelm you.  One speaking book was so hard to follow on vocal production I had to set it aside for a while. Wilder made the exercises so easy to follow that I was not overwhelmed. Most of the book is about developing a content filled speech and then how to deliver it.  This book will build your confidence in speaking.	2000-10-30
US	51107805	R3ROO23HR1RKCI	1570230900	789015533	101 Secrets of Highly Effective Speakers: Controlling Fear, Commanding Attention	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Read This Book If You Are New To Public Speaking	Easy to read straight forward style. Author does not talk down to you like so many other public speaking books. Great tips on how to get started and how to improve in many, many ways. As you read each tip you know you are going to use it as the tip is so well reasoned.  It would be an excellent first book on speaking. This is one of the most wisely organized books I have ever read. Dance around from subject to subject with great table of contents and index or plow though sequentially Read the book in one day.	2000-10-16
US	51107805	R21EHIM0CSI5WP	0060392126	93057025	Simply Speaking: How to Communicate Your Ideas with Style, Substance, and Clarity	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Best First Book For Public Speaking	This is one of the best books to read when you have decided to become good at public speaking.  She says have something to say and say it the way you need to say it.  Then work at making it interesting to see for the audience.  If you don't have something interesting then you are giving the wrong speech.    The great achievement is become the speaker you want to be. Help the audience to understand that you are speaking the truth.  Author's real life stories are excellent. She was speech writer to Presidents Reagan and Bush. Despite all the good things that Toastmaster's International does, it does not advise its new members give the speech you what to give.  Don't copy anybody develop you.	2000-10-14
US	51107805	REEQ7IF56YD3H	0071347070	645747267	Secrets Of Superstar Speakers: Wisdom from the Greatest Motivators of Our Time	Books	4	4	7	N	N	ACCESS TO FAMOUS PEOPLE	There is no central theme to this book.  Through the authors access to famous people you get the flavor of an amazing number of interesting people. It is presented in a way is easy to read and frequently shallow. That is there is no penetrating analysis or boiling down of central themes.  It is never really said in plain language, on reflection the message might be:  If you are going to charge money for speaking you had better be extremely knowledgeable about your subject and able to provide insight and clarity.  If you are famous speaking for money works, massive amounts of work is ahead if you are not.  The book is great for reading in short pieces because it is so disjointed.	2000-10-11
US	51107805	R1D0G7PP9H7ZIU	0205270255	533758238	Speaking for Impact: Connecting with Every Audience (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Every Which Way, But Loose.	I was well into the book still wanting to say: &quot;No tell me about the BIG impact trick.&quot;  Then I realized the book was full of technique and ideas from every possible angle.  Scientific, artistic, graphics, lists, logic, emotion and even down to: &quot;It's something like this.&quot;  I would be amazed if there was an angle about impact that is not in this book.  The book is easy to read but I will be reading it again and again.  Sometimes the smallest insight opens the biggest doors.  My only complaints would be that sometimes the word selection is weak or wrong and some poor sentences slipped through the process or were wrongly slipped in by an editor at the last minute.  Sometimes the author is high handed with branding some techniques as losers. You will know where she stands when you read this book. I am very happy I found and read this book so early in my quest to find expert help on public speaking.	2000-09-25
US	51107805	R12P479GVV5A0K	0205271243	633951730	Choosing Powerful Words: Eloquence That Works (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	My Ears Are In Ecstasy.	Great Wine makers provide pleasure to the palate, but my ears are in ecstasy thanks to Carpenter. If you are like me I did not understand antitheses, metaphors, point and counterpoint.  I just enjoyed these techniques in a great speaker.  Now I know how to add these great tools to my speeches and communications.  This book opened up areas of speech writing I did not know existed.  Having written thousands of pages of business reports I can't go back and do it over, but within hours I was applying these excellent new tools.	2000-09-25
US	51107805	R11L1TR7JBR8J3	0205270255	533758238	Speaking for Impact: Connecting with Every Audience (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Every Which Way, But Loose.	I was well into the book still wanting to say: &quot;No tell me about the BIG impact trick.&quot;  Then I realized the book was full of technique and ideas from every possible angle.  Scientific, artistic, graphics, lists, logic, emotion and even down to: &quot;It's something like this.&quot;  I would be amazed if there was an angle about impact that is not in this book.  The book is easy to read but I will be reading it again and again.  Sometimes the smallest insight opens the biggest doors.  My only complaints would be that sometimes the word selection is weak or wrong and some poor sentences slipped through the process or were wrongly slipped in by an editor at the last minute.  Sometimes the author is high handed with branding some techniques as losers. You will know where she stands when you read this book. I am very happy I found and read this book so early in my quest to find expert help on public speaking.	2000-09-20
US	51107805	R26QYX6UDGBGC5	0205268943	470484822	Motivating Your Audience: Speaking to the Heart (Part of the Essence of Public Speaking Series)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Speaking As A Business	The book is more about how to run the business of speaking for  a living  than about motivating your audience.  The title and editorial review are  extremely misleading.  If you are the verge of making good money from  speaking I recommend this book.  If you are a cold person and you need help  faking it till you make it this book may help.  If you need to be reminded  that being in business for your self, you are the only one that cares about  the fine, but important details this book will help.  Right now I am  looking for books that help improve the first few dozen speeches.  This is  not one of the books I would recommend but I did read it from cover to  cover. Who knows somebody might pay me to speak.  If so I would re-read  this book.	2000-09-13
US	51107805	R395CUWJ38GST2	0425113272	542629188	How to Make Fortune	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Work Hard and Long Hours and You Will Succeed	At the price it is a real bargain--despite its age.  This book tells you  in great detail how to make money by public speaking.  The strategy on how  to get started is only one of many possible approaches. If you are sure  that you want to do public speaking for a living, this book would be a good  place to start. Example: Section on how to get engagements even if you are  an unknown. This book could discourage you from trying to make a living  through public speaking as it is very honest about the work that may be  involved. This book does not lack for fine details about his recipe.	2000-09-06
