US	51100769	R3KSZHJ0I8D8EZ	0345413865	321841176	Billy Straight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	almost hurrah	I am new to Jonathan Kellerman, but want to read all he's written. His books are perceptive and exciting. He depicts real people, and his children are especially compelling. In the mysteries written by many authors, the kids smother under sugar coating. Billy is real.<br /><br />That said, I wish somebody would go to the Mystery Writers' Convention, or whatever they have, and place a ban on life-threatening illnesses contracted by the main characters' loved ones. It was a putrid theme to begin with, and Patterson milked it to death. Kellerman is such a talented author he doesn't need to resort to such maudlin strategies. Ok, the copyright is 1998. I certainly hope he doesn't step in that pile again.<br /><br />Ignore the sickbed histrionics, and this is a great book!	2005-09-13
US	51100769	R1K129E1F7L26Z	019509431X	369592765	The Scars of Evolution	Books	5	14	16	N	N	a valuable contribution worth serious consideration	The Aquatic Theory shaves the hair off the naked ape as neatly as Occam's razor. I have never been able to figure out why this has not replaced the far-fetched theories that academia clutches. Bipedalism evolved as a heat reducing mechanism. Oh alleluia I believe I believe! Come on, has theory totally replaced common sense? During the summer now drawing to fall, what did you do to beat the heat? \\"Hey, I'm hot and sweaty, I think I'll go stand at attention.\\" For me, it was \\"Last one in's a rotten egg!\\"<br /><br />I was already acquainted with the Aquatic Theory when I first read this book several years ago. It seems reasonable to me. I have written polite letters to several physical anthropologists saying that I have rarely seen this theory included in academic discussions, and have never seen a convincing refutation. I have asked them to point out the theory's fatal flaws. To date, nobody has ever replied to my queries.<br /><br />If you see the Aquatic Theory mentioned in mainstream physical anthropology books, the author usually grabs her few, inconsequential weak points and avoids the weight of her arguments. One book `refuted' the theory by saying that in the water we would be prey to crocodiles. This was his entire refutation. We're safer with lions and leopards? Morgan did make a fatuous statement (not in this book), that women's breasts may have evolved so babies could cling to them. The professional anthropologists love that one! This is their favorite. You can almost hear them giggling as they trot that out, disregarding that this is not a key point in the argument.<br /><br />I suspect that the main failing of the Aquatic Theory is that Morgan is not a PhD; she is intruding on sacred territory without being a member of the club. What's worse, she is female. Forget the lip service paid to women's rights, where does she get off, trying to tell the men her ideas? (FYR: I am a white heterosexual male,)<br /><br />If Morgan had gotten a PhD in Comparative Shampooology from Rabbit Hash U, and published her work as E Morgan PhD, the Aquatic Theory would be as mainstream as Continental Drift is now, generations after Wegener wandered off into a snowstorm. Hang in there, Elaine!arative Shampooology from Rabbit Hash U, and published her work as E Morgan PhD, the Aquatic Theory would be as mainstream as Continental Drift is now, generations after Wegener wandered off into a snowstorm. Hang in there, Elaine!  <br />	2005-09-13
US	51100769	R1C12NYPORXPID	0449149943	535195118	Freedom to Kill	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a real thriller	This man can write! From beginning to end, the pace never slows, and you can smell the authenticity.<br /><br />After I finished (when I could breathe again), I was wondering, there's more than one way to skin a cat. The only flaw I could find in the book was, the terrorist never made it clear what he wanted. He seemed to want authority.  The hero cleverly seeks out the terrorist so he can shoot him. For argument's sake, let's say the terrorist wanted to become ruler of the US. But maybe they could have dealt with it by asking the terrorist, ok, say you do become ruler, how will you keep your hold on power? Once you are ruler, you can't sneak around hiding bombs or poisoning people, so what will you do to keep yourself alive the day after you take power? Maybe you can't reason with a nut, and of course the American way is always, \\"run `em down and shoot `em\\" (Viet Nam, Afghanistan, Iraq, New Orleans). But it's an interesting idea.<br /><br />Forget the interesting idea, just read the book! It is a real thriller.	2005-09-13
US	51100769	R1HLKFRD56UEF3	0446612510	975167753	The Fourth Perimeter	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Keep the Daytime Job	The copy of this book I read was printed on nice paper. The paper has far more substance than any of the characters in this book (they scarcely merit the name `characters'; shadows, silhouettes, paper cutouts). They just don't come across as real people. The author cavorts with their personalities as if he were yanking marionettes to be pulled in any which way. The lead character, Kurt Ford, had a gift `with people. He could read them.' Then we are told that Ford also did not feel comfortable chatting with people. Sorry, doesn't work that way. Jill is a totally unbelievable mass of wet clay who flows into whatever shape the author's whim requires. Jeremiah may weigh three hundred pounds, but he is entirely unsubstantial.<br /><br />The dialogue is wooden and contrived. Here is a genuine quote from page 3, I swear I did not make this up: \\"My God, I love you so much,\\" he said with quiet urgency.... \\"Oh, I love you too,\\" she said fervently. \\"Kurt, I love you so much.\\" The author must have toiled for hours on that exchange, tightening up the sentences and twiddling with the rhythms.<br /><br />After that turgid passage, I kept reading mainly to see how badly the author could write. I was not disappointed. The plot has even less depth than the characters or the dialogue. An internet tax? There is no reasonable explanation for the bad guy's murdering the other two Secret Service agents, other than a feeble attempt to build suspense. Is the Secret Service so dense that nobody would remark on the death of three agents?<br /><br />I was originally going to give this two stars for effort, but demoted him to one when the bad guy convinces two nasties to assassinate the President on the grounds that the President was preparing to sell military and intelligence secrets to the Chinese. Those nasties may have watermelons instead of brains, but if that's the best Green can do, he had really better keep his daytime job.	2005-05-08
US	51100769	R419658UU7HO3	0374201781	591693592	The Man Who Would Be King: The First American in Afghanistan	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Breathtaking adventure, rib-breaking comedy	I may be misapprehending this book, but I think this is one of the funniest books I have ever read. On the fringe of the British empire, Harlan has had a local tailor stitch together an American flag for use in recruiting the army with which he is going to win a kingdom; meanwhile, back home in Pennsylvania, his coreligionists have solemnly excommunicated him from the Quaker church. His companion John Brown, an English deserter posing as an American posing as an Ethiopian slave, is given an appropriate complexion with the aid of burnt cork. I appreciate Macintyre's sense of the absurd. He never cracks a smile, which to me contributes to the comic effect.  His good taste keeps him from going overboard.<br /><br />The author's writing is so good that you do not notice it. I have, as Strunk suggests, cultivated bad temper in my reading, but in the entire book found only one or two words to take issue with.<br /><br />I am paying the author what I believe is the highest compliment a reader may pay an author: I am seeking out more of his books to read. I enjoyed every word of this one. I do, however, suggest that those who haven't done so yet first read Kipling's Man Who Would Be King, in order to enjoy this book even more.	2005-04-24
US	51100769	R2TPAME9ZA3K1W	0452285232	901703166	Hatless Jack	Books	5	5	8	N	N	in the days King Kong wore a hat	After he had worked in America for a couple years, my grandfather had his picture taken for the folks back home, to show he \\"had arrived.\\" He looks confidently at the camera in his suit and tie, overcoat, and button-down shoes, his hand resting on a specially carved stand, on which rests his carefully placed hat.<br /><br />A couple years after my parents danced in JFK's inaugural ball, we left the east to move to LA. Our parents told us that out on the West Coast, life was so casual that sometimes men didn't even wear ties when they ate out. Back east, my mother, an educated woman of a respectable family, wore gloves on any but the most casual of outings. (I remember her doing the grocery shopping in elbow length gloves, although that may have been because of winter.) Shortly after we reached LA, her gloves and my father's hats were gone forever, and good riddance. I haven't worn a tie since my senior year of college, and have never worn a topper or a homburg.<br /><br />I barely even know what a homburg is. I had to look it up on the internet. Oh, that. This brings up my only complaint about this excellent book. Since Steinberg is recording the end of traditions, he should have included illustrations of the dinosaurs with which our elders adorned their heads. A homburg, a fedora, a trilby, what are these things? I found them on the Internet, but illustrations in the book would have helped. Especially Tricky Dick treading the beach in his wingtips.<br /><br />A minor flaw. Steinberg has researched this so meticulously that I frequently wondered, How on earth did he find that out? His arguments are convincing: JFK is not to blame (or rather, to praise) for the demise of the hat. If hats disappeared because of JFK, why did my mother stop wearing gloves?<br /><br />Steinberg analyzes social trends with wit and penetration. When you read this book you will certainly, as I did, over and over again say, Oh yeah, for sure, how about that! There are some good laughs here, too. The writing is excellent. Just one disclaimer: this book was written for Democrats. Republicans may not like it so much.aughs here, too. The writing is excellent. Just one disclaimer: this book was written for Democrats. Republicans may not like it so much.  <br />	2005-04-18
US	51100769	RX3RG4W3028NW	0140292608	222301968	Nathaniel's Nutmeg: Or the True and Incredible Adventures of the Spice Trader Who Changed the Course of History	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	doesn't quite make it	Giles Milton is a superb story teller, but this time he doesn't quite pull it off. We are tantalized in the subtitle by the story of a spice trader who changed the course of history, but Courthope's story occupies only a small part of this book. Valuable and interesting information about the early explorations is given, but the story wanders. Literally, it wanders, from the Hudson Bay to the Spice Islands. My attention wandered, too.<br /><br />Overall, this is an interesting book, but Milton did not convince me that Courthope's endeavors were pivotal in the course of history. He was one player among many. Any one could have been chosen as `the spice trader who changed the course of history.'<br /><br />BTW, Chinese observed sunspots long before the Europeans Milton claims were the first to do so.	2005-04-18
US	51100769	RMDVMWVJNTST2	0399146164	501935513	Riptide	Books	3	3	3	N	N	should be better	Coulter seems to have taken writing lessons from James Patterson. The structure of the book is good, but in the reading of it, there is less subtlety than in getting hit on the head with a hammer. If she had written one more icky-gooey scene involving the baby, I would have seen my lunch again.<br /><br />They should have found some kryptonite to go after the villain here. Yes, crime fiction is basically escapist reading, but we need not escape beyond reason. I personally tire very quickly of improbable, overdone, invincible super-villains. Perhaps the thrill of reading good crime fiction is that it touches dangerously yet safely close to our lives. The bad guy could clout the heroine on the head, push her away, leap to his feet, pull a lighter out of his pocket, and set the blanket and sheet on fire before one good guy could fire the gun in his hand or the other good guy could reach the gun thirteen inches from his left foot. The house burned down in about ten minutes. Must have been pretty dry on the east coast that year.<br /><br />Coulter can do better than this.	2005-03-08
US	51100769	R16G41KNTA1P6U	0515133302	304671626	Hemlock Bay (An FBI Thriller)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Little Lilly the Gnarly Punching Bag	A bit far fetched, but pretty good, presided over by the all-knowing hermaphrodite god, MAX. Whenever there's action, poor Lilly gets whacked. Would a person recovering from a nearly fatal accident and the removal of her spleen be capable of such exertion?  <br /> <br />I prefer a story that ties everything together. Wilbur Wright's adventures really don't have anything do with anything else in the book, so they could have been left out. Why was Tennyson so intent on Lilly's seeing Dr Rossetti? Savich somehow arranged for Tammy to find out the phone number, but we never learn how. What was so important about the black circle? Also, it would have been interesting to learn if both twins had these powers, and how they got them. What's wrong with these Swedes? <br /> <br />Unfortunately, it appears that Coulter's idea of great art is something along the lines of Norman Rockwell. And speaking of sentimentality, the lovely-dovey family scenes go a little overboard. She doesn't have to lather Sean in so much saccharine.  <br /> <br />The main attraction of this novel is that I have never read a book that uses the word gnarly so many times. I began to look forward to seeing how Coulter would find another place for gnarly. Here are a few more. You may cut them from your screen and sprinkle them through the book where you please: gnarly gnarly gnarly gnarly gnarly <br />	2005-01-14
US	51100769	R24FBO7L91LAAQ	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	2	5	8	N	N	same old, same old	My name is Dr Alex Cross. I am the most perfect life form to walk this earth since the crust cooled enough for oceans to form. I have academic degrees out the bazootie, I am beautiful, more fit than an Olympic athlete, and I play jazz piano on the porch late at night and my neighbors never complain. (I never miss a note) Woman salivate at the very sight of my footprints. When I break wind, crowds rush to savor the fragrance. I have three kids. MIT repeatedly sends delegations of Nobel laureates to kneel and beg my big son to be president of their school, but I feel he should lead a normal teenage life. My daughter is even smarter and more beautiful. Every December we have her stand in the front yard instead of putting up Christmas decorations. People flock from miles around to bask in her glow. My little baby boy is so cute that he has been barred from the DC zoo; last time he visited, two elephants, four giraffes, a hippopotamus, and a whole herd of zebras died of diabetes, he is so sweet. My mother is the greatest fount of wisdom and home cooking that this world has ever been fortunate enough to host; we have s&eacute;ances so spirits can ask her for advice. However, a member of my family is guaranteed to undergo a terrifying, life-threatening disease in each novel, but they always manage to pull through. Whew! That suspense can knock your socks off.<br /><br />My job is, I'm a cop. My boss thinks I am a stupid idiot and always gets in my way as I ruthlessly track down evil genii (see how smart I am? Did you know the plural of genius?) When I finally track one down, I am apt to beat him to a pulp, shoot him sixteen times through the head, handcuff him, pour acid down his throat, weight him down with a refrigerator full of lead, and throw him in a shark feeding frenzy, but he will come back unharmed in the next novel to continue his depredations, because he is aided by an evil supergenius locked up in an ultra-security penitentiary. They communicate by means of psychic vampires. Those vampires are the most believable part of the whole series. Please keep shelling out good money to buy my putrid books, Lollipop.c vampires. Those vampires are the most believable part of the whole series. Please keep shelling out good money to buy my putrid books, Lollipop.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-04
US	51100769	R26VVNIOHBIUEZ	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	informative and entertaining	i am a stickler I do go through books to correct grammar usage and punctuation not mind you with just a wussy pencil but with a pen<br /><br />dealing in english i am happy to imagine that my punctuation would merit ms trusss approval however in literary chinese i vastly prefer the original unpunctuated texts because they engage your attention in a way punctuated texts cannot reading this book now i suspect that i am so punctilious about english punctuation because reading unpunctuated chinese has made me more aware of the flow and rhythm of sentences<br /><br />on, the, other, end, of, the, spectrum, are, some, chinese, who, place, a, comma, after, every, word,<br /><br />Let us strike a happy medium (Slap! Take that, Maggie Fox!). If you're going to punctuate, do it properly. I am the stoutest defender of the Oxford comma (AKA the serial comma) in all of Wulai, which sounds pretty impressive until you realize that, unless Temu is back from Capetown, only two people in Wulai speak English, and the other drinks half a dozen bottles of beer every day before lunch. Truss accepts Oxford commas conditionally, and on page 120 uses semicolons in a similar manner, so I should be content, I suppose.<br /><br />Truss has done a magnificent job of swatting down the apostrophes which swarm around unwanted like gnats. Perhaps some of the fault for the recent plague of apostrophes lies with the US Post Office, which does not allow apostrophes  in any place name but Marthas Vineyard, or something. As a sort of natural counterbalance, people unwittingly add apostrophes where they are do not belong. Unwittingly, or halfwits?<br /><br />In light of this problem, we see a dangerous precedent on page 45. In listing the uses of the apostrophe, we see 8. It also indicates the plurals of words. If so, what is wrong with Book's? To make the world is a safer place, this should read: it also indicates the plurals of words which do not normally have plural forms.<br /><br />I will close with a question about punctuation. On page 58 of the hardback edition, I read, \\"you have to give initial capitals to the words Biro and Hoover otherwise you automatically get tedious letters from solicitors.\\" Is that right? Shouldn't there be one of those little whatchamacallits before otherwise?a question about punctuation. On page 58 of the hardback edition, I read, \\"you have to give initial capitals to the words Biro and Hoover otherwise you automatically get tedious letters from solicitors.\\" Is that right? Shouldn't there be one of those little whatchamacallits before otherwise?	2004-08-16
US	51100769	R14DWGXDD203KV	0393051331	382357925	Ishi's Brain: In Search of America's Last "Wild" Indian	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Themes of Reconciliation	Ishi's story is too well known to need to be recounted here. In 1911, wandering aimlessly -- or was he going somewhere? Ishi (which wasn't really his name), the last of the Yahi Indians-- or was he? early one morning -- or was it late one afternoon? was taken in by a white community -- or was that taken capture?<br />Theodora Kroeber turns out to have taken considerable liberties in writing her book about Ishi. In retrospect, I should not be surprised, considering the way she dressed California Indian tales in tuxedos and evening gowns for the Inland Whale.<br />But just who was Ishi? What does he represent? How should we envisage him? Starn, who did so much to put Ishi's body back together again, in this book helps us put Ishi back together with California history, so we can better appreciate where Ishi stood at this confluence. He approaches every question with great fairness and balance. Many of his investigations of possibilities and interpretations would not occur to the average reader, and help us round out the picture.<br />Although I say Starn writes with justice and balance, this is not a cold treatment of a dead man. He brings Ishi back to life for us, with bones beneath his flesh. He writes movingly about Grizzly Bear's Hiding Place. The whole book is beautiful, in writing style, in treatment, in reflection, in the care he takes. I, for one, am grateful for his detailed recitation of these events, because even though it may slow the book a bit, it shows proper respect for the importance of those events.<br />I can't believe I am writing a whole review without saying anything nasty about a book. Okay, the photos, although superbly reproduced, are jumbled together in no particular order that I could conceive, and I have questions about one caption: which one is Hi Good?<br />Great book, one that was never intended to supplant Ishi in Two Worlds, but complements it perfectly.	2004-04-19
US	51100769	R1K9SBJC2MHYF8	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	drama with spaghetti	Other reviewers have summarized the plot very well, so I will leave that out, and keep my comments short. This book reads like a No drama: full of ritualized, stylized drama hidden behind masks. In the end, you never really get inside the characters' lives; a successful novel draws you in, whether you want in or not. Partly, this is characteristic of Japan, circles within circles, barriers within barriers, but partly, I think the author is striving too hard for effect.	2004-04-16
US	51100769	RRFISPYS01736	0374525366	195274557	Black Zodiac: Poems	Books	3	3	11	N	N	topsy turvy	The cover of this book reproduces a masterpiece of Chinese calligraphy -- upside down. I once wrote to the publisher asking why they didn't turn it right-side up, but they never responded. I wonder if they did that intentionally, or through ignorance. That would be like printing a page from the Book of Kells upside down.	2004-02-19
US	51100769	RCCHKRUFIQ05S	0446613266	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross #8)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Vintage Patterson	Anybody who has read a Patterson novel will recognize the hackneyed props. A family member gets deathly sick and amazingly manages to recover. There is a mastermind behind the murders. Cross is in love with a perfect lady. And so forth. At least Patterson has managed to slightly tone down the godliness and inhuman perfection of Cross and his kids. You may be a bit surprised to discover that the younger son has yet to receive either canonization or a Nobel Prize, but he's only about two years old, so those will probably have to wait until the next novel.<br />The story, about stereotyped Viet Nam veterans who are troubled by the terrible events of the war blah blah blah, is loosely constructed and full of loose ends that never really come together. How, for example, were evidence and straw dolls so flawlessly planted in the homes of innocent victims? (Maybe that Little Alex is actually a criminal genius who did that? It would be welcome relief if he were.) After we have been persuaded that one of those victims was a paragon of virtue, we are told that he was actually a devil. Not very convincing. Not very interesting. None of this is. Your time would be much better spent with John Sanford.	2003-12-30
US	51100769	R51DD48U7YJ8A	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Justice for Captain Bligh	Several years ago, I came across Captain Bligh's own account of the mutiny on the Bounty. Besides being awed by the skill of his seamanship, I was struck by his careful, affectionate descriptions of the people of Tahiti. How bad, I wondered, could this man be? Then I wondered, how good could somebody the self-important Marlon Brando chose to champion be?<br />Now Caroline Alexander has presented her meticulously researched record of the mutiny. I, for one, am happy to see somebody stand up for William Bligh. She explores facets of the journey, mutiny, and aftermath I had never considered, and pops quite a few myths along the way (Bligh's second breadfruit voyage did not end in mutiny).<br />The author supposes the reader to be familiar with the story. The students I teach English as a second language, knowing nothing of British maritime history, would have difficulty figuring out the course of events from this book.<br />Which brings up a rather serious complaint. If language is to have any meaning at all, we have to agree to the established meaning of words and structures, rather than set them adrift in a stormy sea of arbitrary usage (sorry, couldn't resist the metaphor). Naturally language changes, as a glance at the speech of eighteenth century sailors quickly shows. But there is rhyme and reason to the evolution of language, which we abuse at the risk of destroying our means of communication. For an author, Alexander has an appalling disdain for the meanings of some words, the blocks on which her work is built. Any educated person should know what fulsome means, and that it does not mean full. On page 271 (hardbound), I was confused to read that &iexcl;§the mutineers prevaricated over whether to retain Purcell or McIntosh for his valuable carpentry skill.&iexcl;¨ After puzzling over this several times, I decided she must have meant 'vacillate.' What were the editors doing?<br />But I do not wish to end my review on such a negative note. I encourage readers to buy the hardbound version. I have noticed a trend. In bookstores here in Taiwan, sometimes you can buy the American edition, the English edition, and the Chinese translation of the same book. Local publishers pay great attention to not only the visual, but also the tactile appeal of books, so in such a case, the Chinese translation is often the one you want to pick up. The English edition is usually simply an effort to plunk the words on the page, good enough, never mind any sensory appeal (I am reminded of the differences between Chinese and English cuisine). The American edition usually lies somewhere in between. With The Bounty, the editors who were not checking the words were probably busy designing the book, and they have done a good job. The hardbound version is a pleasure to hold, a pleasure to read, and a pleasure to own.hardbound version. I have noticed a trend. In bookstores here in Taiwan, sometimes you can buy the American edition, the English edition, and the Chinese translation of the same book. Local publishers pay great attention to not only the visual, but also the tactile appeal of books, so in such a case, the Chinese translation is often the one you want to pick up. The English edition is usually simply an effort to plunk the words on the page, good enough, never mind any sensory appeal (I am reminded of the differences between Chinese and English cuisine). The American edition usually lies somewhere in between. With The Bounty, the editors who were not checking the words were probably busy designing the book, and they have done a good job. The hardbound version is a pleasure to hold, a pleasure to read, and a pleasure to own.	2003-11-25
US	51100769	R1P8H0UAPRRITJ	0743437802	736731828	The Stone Monkey (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	exciting, if predictable	Deaver's story of a snakehead's smuggling human cargo into the US moves along with excitement and suspense. Authors develop their habits. In a Deaver book, you expect that not everybody will be the person they appear to be. If you've read other Deaver books, this will reduce the suspense somewhat. Overall, though, I think the author did a pretty good job of portraying people from a background he is not familiar with, even if there are glitches. A Chinese phoenix does not rise from its ashes. It symbolizes peace on earth, and when it flies, all the other birds follow it. Also, it's nice the way all the characters from Fuzhou learned the Minnan dialect; the Fuzhou dialect is Minbei, northern Min (Min refers to Fujian), not the Minnan, southern Min, of Xiamen and Taiwan. Big deal. We can all enjoy the book even if they speak the wrong dialect, and the author goofs up here and there.	2003-11-23
US	51100769	R3J2YH2C1LXLNQ	068485581X	579725414	The Man Who Found the Missing Link: Eugine Dubois and His Lifelong Quest to Prove Darwin Right	Books	4	1	2	N	N	good to learn more about dubois	Many thanks to Pat Shipman for bringing alive this strange man who lurks around the edges of the story of evolution, jealously hiding his treasure trove of bones. He is one of those characters who always shows up, but you never had a chance to meet.<br />Just as skilled paleontologists reconstruct long-dead animals from a bone here, a tooth there, Shipman resurrects Dubois from a note here, a letter there. Of course much of this we have to accept on faith: we have no more solid proof that Dubois's behavior in many cases was just as Shipman has recreated it. But without her leaps of judgment, this book would be very dull, very scanty reading. Parts of the book are slow as we examine the ins and outs of old controversies and theories, but this detail is important for us to understand Duboi's character and work. Slog on through, but remember that Dubois was kicking and screaming into his eighties, so the book does go on. Maybe just as well we did not digress into the Taung baby and other contemporary discoveries.<br />I have read other books by Shipman, so it came as no surprise to me that the book was meticulously researched, informative, and enjoyable to read. However, I hope I never again have to read a book written almost entirely in the present tense. Shipman is a good enough author that she does not have to resort to such a tiresome gimmick to bring immediacy to her scenes.<br />Professor Shipman, if you are out there in front of the computer screen, please keep typing, I am looking forward to your next book. But please do remember how interesting the tenses of the English language are.	2003-11-09
US	51100769	R2FP6YMKD2IT0H	061823649X	865354621	Spoken Here: Travels Among Threatened Languages	Books	5	57	60	N	Y	a valuable handbook	In Wulai, the aboriginal village I live in, the cutoff is in the twenties. Those over thirty speak Tayal (also Atayal; an Austronesian language of Taiwan) as their first language. Those under twenty understand it pretty well, but rarely speak more than a few phrases. I make a point of speaking to children in my rudimentary Tayal, so they can practice &iexcl;V and show off - without the embarrassment of being caught making a mistake. I nag parents to encourage their children to speak Tayal: if you don't, a tradition of over six thousand years will die with you. Several tribal elders have asked me to teach them how to write Tayal in roman letters. Children are elated to see their grandparents struggling with pen and paper, and this encourages them to repeat what their elders are saying. The administration started Tayal classes in Wulai Elementary, but I hear funding is being cut now that the Party feels one hour of Tayal a week is not going to bring them votes. Tayal is losing ground to Mandarin. What is to be done?<br />What is to be done? Spoken Here is practically a handbook for me, of things I can try, things I can avoid, in my personal crusade to impress Tayal on the next generation. The author is alert to cant, dogma, and dead-end thinking, so the reader can see the fallacies of certain viewpoints. The writing is fluid and informative. His sympathy to the speakers of these languages makes their plights come alive.<br />I wish books like this came with a CD. Looking at the word Tayal, did you have any clue that it is pronounced dah-YEN? If I write a Tayal word such as qsnuw or mksingut, does that give you any idea of how to pronounce it? I would love to hear what Yuchi, Wangkajunga, or Mohawk actually sound like (although a friend who has been there told me Welsh sounds like angry geese). I have listened to a couple Australian Aboriginal languages by tracking down their websites, which raises my main &iexcl;V albeit minor - complaint about this book. In the Sources, he tells us things like &quot;see the Web site of the Maori Language Commission&quot; or &quot;All these organizations have web sites.&quot; It would have burdened him very little, and given the book completeness, if he had taken the trouble to provide the http addresses for those sites!es, he tells us things like &quot;see the Web site of the Maori Language Commission&quot; or &quot;All these organizations have web sites.&quot; It would have burdened him very little, and given the book completeness, if he had taken the trouble to provide the http addresses for those sites!	2003-10-19
US	51100769	RIHQM0XUL20NI	0374253854	630469625	Samurai William: The Englishman Who Opened Japan	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	tough characters, fascinating story	The story of these forlorn mariners, starved and thrashed but not beaten by the ocean, is gripping. A handful of survivors finally manages to land, by chance and fate rather than by planning, in the same harbor as Portuguese adventurers sixty years earlier. One of these men who was too tough to die went on to become a powerful aristocrat in the Shogun's court. What an incredible story!<br />This is the story of Will Adams, AKA Anjin San, the mariner from Limehouse after whom Anjincho in Tokyo is named. It is told very fluently and articulately by Giles Milton. However, I felt that Milton's writing borders on the slapdash, and wonder if he reread what he had written. In the first paragraph of the Prologue, we are informed that the sailors saw above them 'unfamiliar stars.' The earth is round; at the same latitude, the same stars shine, and Adams had certainly traveled through many latitudes. How on earth could they have seen unfamiliar stars?<br />Further down the page we read that the palaces and pagodas had 'cuneiform roofs.' That stalled me: were the roofs written in Akkadian or Sumerian? I realized he must have meant wedge-shaped, but why didn't he just say so?<br />I suspect the author was in more of a hurry to get another book into print than to understand his topic fully. Adams was undoubtedly close to the Shogun, but Milton implies that he was the Shogun's main adviser and consultant. Throughout, Milton relies too heavily on the European view, without enough consideration of the Japanese outlook.<br />On page 12 of the hardback version, we read that the retainers carried 'maces, their insignia of office.' Maces, in feudal Japan? Show me one, please. Further we read that it was a 'troublesome period.' Troubled, not troublesome. Osaka Castle is described twice, (p 95 and 227), both times with the phrase 'held to be impregnable.' Finances in 'a parlous state' appears thrice (20, 26, 246). In Chapter 6, we are told the Chinese merchants wore long ponytails. In 1603, the end years of the Ming Dynasty, only a small minority from the North wore ponytails. The queue was not imposed on ethnic Han Chinese until later in the century. And so forth and so on. Milton is a very talented writer and a great storyteller. Now he has to slow down and be more rigorous.603, the end years of the Ming Dynasty, only a small minority from the North wore ponytails. The queue was not imposed on ethnic Han Chinese until later in the century. And so forth and so on. Milton is a very talented writer and a great storyteller. Now he has to slow down and be more rigorous.	2003-10-06
US	51100769	R1AW2RFBXHLXS3	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	0	6	N	N	well written, informative	Founding Brothers is written with eloquence, wit, and learning -- so much learning that the author assumes we all know the ins and outs of the XYZ Affair or the Whiskey Rebellion, without being reminded.<br />Okay, well, anyone who chooses this book to read can look those up elsewhere. A more serious problem is the title, which challenges a familiar perception, that of the Founding Fathers. If radically changing those fathers into brothers, Ellis should have meticulously elucidated his reasons for that change (if it ain't broke, don't fix it). Instead, all we get are a few scattered references to a band of brothers. Indeed, Ellis himself calls these leaders patriarchs. So why bother?	2003-10-04
US	51100769	RNQGV8BO5KMO9	0879237732	724361918	Giving Up the Gun: Japan's Reversion to the Sword, 1543-1879	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	a bang	I made the mistake of beginning to read this book before I went to bed. I read long into the night, unable to put it down.<br />Perrin packs a great deal of information into this thin volume, livened with quiet humor. This book is an excellent complement to Sword and Chrysanthemum, because he deals with aspects of Japanese culture that Benedict did not.<br />Perhaps in the final pages he sings praises a bit too loud, looking at feudal Japan as close to an ideal society. That was an age in which peasants took it for granted that Mother would be led into the forest and abandoned when food ran out. Life may have been peaches and cream for the upper classes, but Japan was certainly not a land in which it was 'impossible to discern misery.'<br />I urge anybody with an interest in Japan, or in cultural evolution, to read this book.	2003-10-03
US	51100769	R36GEYAT4LYOVO	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In a Class by Itself	The story of the Cremator barrels forward, slowed only by a difficult romance. The romance is the only predictable part of this surprising book. I can usually figure out a mystery by half or two thirds through, but with this book, I was kept in suspense until the author revealed something ~ and even then, the book still kept coming up with surprises.<br />Scary, but highly recommended, even though the author did seem to be trying to see how many times she could write 'proactive' in one book. Also, as this is set in Minneaopolis, at first I kept expecting Lucas Davenport to drive up in his Porsche.<br />Best to find a day when you have nothing else to do to read this book, because once you start, you won't be able to put it down.	2003-10-02
US	51100769	R3F1680HBS1FLN	0786890037	908407552	Silent Joe	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hurrah for Joe and Shag	This is a real slam-bam thriller. It took me a while to get into the author's stride, but once we got together, I could hardly put the book down. <br />The book is much more than a thriller. Something that interests me is, why some pieces of art work, and others don't. The successes must be tapping in to some basic human themes which we all respond to. Silent Joe, the hero with half a face, renders many of the elements of myth, in his search for Father and Mother, part of which ends in the author's own hometown, maybe even his own house, with little male and little female splashing in the water. The river metaphor is especially well done. <br />Well, come in, it's a detective book, who cares about all that? Nonetheless, in reading this book, I couldn't help admiring the author's skill and attention to detail. Bamboo 33 is such a clever name that either there really is a club by that name, or the author speaks Viet Namese. <br />A very nice coincidence especially endears this book to me. Joe mentions his favorite childhood book, Shag: Last of the Plains Buffalo. Me too! Shag is one of three childhood books I have always kept on my shelf. Once you finish Silent Joe, you might want to see if you can find Shag (written by Robert McClung, illustrated by Louis Darling, 1960, William Morrow). It's full of magic, a book for all ages.	2003-07-25
US	51100769	R3SQ6K0SJ911FU	0465015212	195474362	When Smoke Ran Like Water	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	smoke gets in your eyes	I never saw my grandfather, Rade Talovich. He died several years before I was born.<br />After he emigrated from Serbia, he spent his life working steam shovels in the factories of Donora, Pennsylvania. He died suddenly in his fifties, a few months after the killer smog of 1948.<br />I have never visited Donora. After he left, my father, Peter, never wanted to see the town again. We lived in LA, about as far from Donora as you can get in the continental USA.<br />I remember the whole class crying as we sat on the football field during PE class at Pasadena High. We were sitting because the air was so bad we were not allowed to play; we were crying because the air hurt so much. We would try to see Mt Wilson, a few miles right behind our school. Usually we couldn't.<br />(Every time this happened, there would always be a couple guys who passed the time chatting about what kind of cars they wanted. Inevitably big powerful ones.)<br />My father never really told us what happened to our grandfather. Now, reading When Smoke Ran Like Water, I know more about it. Who needs Stephen King when you can get scared out of your mind by the solid facts about the air in your lungs?<br />Dr Davis states her cases clearly and meticulously. It is a pleasure to read her beautifully sculptured sentences. I burst out laughing more than once at her nicely planted pronouncements. (Also, in this era of baldly explicit descriptions, it is nice to read her respectful &iexcl;§G-d&iexcl;¨)<br />The focus of the book is pollution, so there are a few avenues that could bear further exploration. She examines the important problem of breast cancer from the angle of pollutants. In Diet For A New America, John Robbins documented the role of eggs in causing breast cancer. Robbins also discusses the effect of hormones in meat animals on hapless children in Puerto Rico, a facet only lightly touched on by Davis.<br />The guilt of polluting companies is beyond doubt, and almost beyond comprehension. However, I was also encouraged by Davis's resolute foundation in democracy. She places a portion of the ultimate responsibility right where it belongs: in each family, in each individual's decisions about what products to use or not to use. Without this reminder, this treatise could slip into polemic. Now we have to make sure that each person knows the facts with which to make wise decisions.<br />Now that I have read this book, I am disturbed by an idea. My father, born the same year as Dr Davis' uncle Len (they must have known each other), died in his 60s, at about the same age as his mother, Mildred Kasonovich Talovich. Early generations of the family were roaring and raring well into their 90s. Could the toxic atmosphere of their town robbed my elders of decades of life?s also encouraged by Davis's resolute foundation in democracy. She places a portion of the ultimate responsibility right where it belongs: in each family, in each individual's decisions about what products to use or not to use. Without this reminder, this treatise could slip into polemic. Now we have to make sure that each person knows the facts with which to make wise decisions. <br />Now that I have read this book, I am disturbed by an idea. My father, born the same year as Dr Davis' uncle Len (they must have known each other), died in his 60s, at about the same age as his mother, Mildred Kasonovich Talovich. Early generations of the family were roaring and raring well into their 90s. Could the toxic atmosphere of their town robbed my elders of decades of life?	2003-05-30
US	51100769	R3OAEFNXSPKGSZ	0425175413	669901920	The White House Connection (Sean Dillon)	Books	1	2	6	N	N	smoker	The plot of this book is simplistic: a mother wants revenge for her son, and gets it. Other than that, nothing much happens. The whole story is predictable. I don't think I will spoil anybody's surprise by disclosing that the mother -- loved by all -- dies when revenge is complete and has a lovely funeral.<br />This is a book peopled by ... caricatures, such as the troubled soul with a difficult past, and bizarre habits only to be hinted at. Imagine! one character has a Gurkha batboy named Kim. I bet the author stayed up all night trying to think that one up.<br />You can get cancer just by reading this book, with all the smokers in it. If you cut out every time somebody lights up, or asks for a cigarette, you would reduce the book's volume by a good 10 per cent.<br />The dividers tell you that this section takes place in New York or London, or something. Beyond that, and a few street names, the book does not produce any sense of place. It doesn't help that the \\"Americans\\" sound British. Read James Lee Burke and you're squarely in rural Louisiana; Ian Rankin places the reader right in Scotland. I have never visited either place, but feel I know them, just from the authors' skill. Jack Higgins' writing makes you feel you are sitting in a chair at home, wondering, isn't New York any different from London?<br />It rains a lot in this book. Characters slip through walls and out windows. They like to do nothing so well as to tell about battles they have fought, and they do so almost every time they speak. Two characters (Hedley and the Secret Service agent) even review their battle resumes as they slug it out: My war was bigger than your war! Fortunately, the Gurkha orderly doesn't get a speaking part. Otherwise, he too would be telling us about battles he fought: \\"Here's your tea, sir. Reminds me of the time I was in Nam.\\"<br />There is an interesting line; the author refers to types you see 'anywhere in the world, from New York to London.' The world is a lot larger than the shores of the North Atlantic, but Mr Higgins is probably surrounded by so dense a cloud of cigaret smoke that he cannot see very far or very deep.<br />Would I recommend that you read this book? Well, I hear there's a new Robert Parker out, if you get my drift. Let's go see what Michael Connelly is up to.n the shores of the North Atlantic, but Mr Higgins is probably surrounded by so dense a cloud of cigaret smoke that he cannot see very far or very deep. <br />Would I recommend that you read this book? Well, I hear there's a new Robert Parker out, if you get my drift. Let's go see what Michael Connelly is up to.	2003-05-20
US	51100769	RCKIHS9IJXUR2	0740734377	95110188	Pearls Before Swine : BLTs Taste So Darn Good	Books	5	5	11	N	Y	read it!	Don't waste time reading reviews, read the book! You won't regret it. Pastis has a novel sense of humor peppered with great puns. Enough now: see what Rat and Pig are up to.	2003-05-20
US	51100769	RZZ77SFCBHS00	1582431205	714562311	The Trouser People: A Story of Burma in the Shadow of the Empire	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	A superb book, with a glitch	This is not an even-handed scholarly study of Burma -- thank goodness. It moves along just like a journey, in fits and starts, pausing here, rushing there.<br />Focusing on Sir George Scott, British Empire-builder of a hundred years ago, Marshall paints a vivid picture of Burma today. His writing is extraordinarily full of life, leading the reader from sympathy to outrage, from suspense to laughter. This is not a book you want to give to someone recuperating from surgery: Marshall is one of the funniest writers I have ever read, and would play havoc on surgical stitches.<br />One point I would like to debate: his discussion of the Kayan/Padaung families working for the Hupin Hotel in Yawnghwe/Nyaungshwe. I know the family that runs the Hupin personally -- several branches of the clan, actually, and count several of the staff among my friends. Yes, they are not running the hotel for their health, and yes, they are making a profit, but in all sincerity, I do not think their dealings with the Kayan are as heartless as Marshall depicts.<br />There are two families of Kayan by Inle Lake. Marshall met the ones hired by the Hupin, not those moved in by the government. The Hupin went into the mountains and made a deal with the family: they would build a house for them, give the men jobs in factories around Yawnghwe, the women would work for the hotel, and the kids would go to school at Hupin's expense. They are paid monthly salaries and medical expenses, and any weddings and what-not are paid for by the Hupin. Some of the children have reached high school, and are still going strong. Few children in the countryside get so much schooling. One little girl envied all the attention her big sister got from tourists because of the rings on her neck. The little girl raised such a fuss that her parents agreed to let her have rings on her neck, even though she had not reached the traditional age for that. BTW: she refuses to go to school.<br />The price for a photo with the Padaung is US$3: this is split 3 ways, between the guide, the hotel, and the Padaung (US$1 is a good day's wage for someone working in Yangon, a week's salary for the countryside.) The Padaung are free to go back to Kayah state. When they go, they bring handicrafts back to the hotel, which they sell to tourists; this money goes into their own pockets. My friends from the Hupin asked the Kayan to lower the price of the bracelets I was buying, and let me tell you, it was a struggle! These are not listless zombies meekly obeying a master's wishes.<br /><br />Marshall describes a concrete compound. I am not sure what he is talking about, unless it is the area outside their compound, beyond the bamboo bridge. Their wooden house was built Kayan style, in accordance with their specific wishes. They are an extremely conservative tribe. Marshall makes much of the women not leaving their compound. The Padaung are shy people, and the women do not speak Burmese, so they are not willing to range far. Also, I have heard from separate, unrelated sources that there is a danger for Padaung women to roam, because there have been cases of their being -- not exactly kidnapped, but taken off for show in Europe.<br />Marshall says &quot;the hotel staff member broke into a practiced spiel.&quot; We may not be talking about the same man, I did not speak English with the Padaung man I went with, but I suspect the &quot;practiced spiel&quot; may be memorized word for word by someone who speaks minimal English, and may not have confidence in leaving the beaten path.<br />I deeply feel that the Hupin is more than fair in its dealings with its staff, whether they be Burman, Shan, Chinese, Kayan, or others. When I told the Hupin family what Marshall had written about them, they were quite hurt. Frankly, they are making enough money from tourists, they do not feel the need to exploit the workers. Marshall went to Burma expecting to see the disadvantaged being exploited, so when he saw the disadvantaged,he assumed they must be getting exploited. In the case of the Hupin, I can vouch that he was wrong.<br />All in all, though, this is an excellent picture of Burma, including parts most of us will never see. I hope Marshall is hard at work on his next book. This is an author to keep an eye on.d, he assumed they must be getting exploited. In the case of the Hupin, I can vouch that he was wrong.  <br />All in all, though, this is an excellent picture of Burma, including parts most of us will never see. I hope Marshall is hard at work on his next book. This is an author to keep an eye on.	2003-01-13
US	51100769	R3FND54FQBDHO4	0142002283	390462195	Roanoke: Solving the Mystery of the Lost Colony	Books	5	37	44	N	Y	Case Closed	Most Americans are probably familiar with the bare outlines of the story of Raleigh's colony at Roanoke. Many will, like me, remember history text pictures of the stunned John White staring in awestruck perplexity at that awful word, CROATOAN. Few will, like me, have mothers who explained that the Croatians came for them.<br />The basic story is familiar. Miller presents us with the entire story, from the Spanish pressure on England that led to privateering, to the court intrigues. We learn about the social and political situation in England, with much interesting detail that helps us understand how these people lived. Lane's dealings with the Native Americans, killing and burning for a wretched silver cup, are sickening. The poor Indians must have felt that unwonted doom had descended on them out of a clear blue sky.<br />Miller's research is highly impressive. All the pieces slide into place, even the preposterous Welsh Indians. I know nothing about American languages, so I cannot comment authoritatively on her conclusions there, but if this stands up to peer review, it should settle the case. If nothing else, she has convinced me. (Samuel Morison's Oxford History of the American People says the Lumbee Indians believe the blood of Raleigh's colonists runs in their veins. I wonder what Miller says about that.)<br />The case should be settled, but the melodramatic writing style has caused comment. A writing gimmick, used sparingly, is clever, often repeated becomes distracting, obnoxious, and causes you to wonder about the writer. Her health. Her qi. She can barely build up the steam to write a complete sentence. Fragments. Almost the whole book. She's okay when she's concentrating on scholarly evidence, and oh how she piles on the footnotes! But when she's telling a story, you want to stand by her desk and cheer, Take a deep breath, Lee, push that pen! All the way to the end! You can do it, you can do it! Push that pen! Rah rah rah!<br />If you can muck your way through all those fragments, you will find a superb story, nailed down with meticulous scholarship. One thought will not leave my mind. The lost colonists who survived must have heard that their countrymen were searching in the region, but as slaves they were unable to meet them. Pity their despair!through all those fragments, you will find a superb story, nailed down with meticulous scholarship. One thought will not leave my mind. The lost colonists who survived must have heard that their countrymen were searching in the region, but as slaves they were unable to meet them. Pity their despair!	2002-12-25
US	51100769	R1XBHH36IZPWUL	0002726874	552381525	Quartered Safe Out Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma	Books	5	6	11	N	N	A soldier looks at war	I got this book to read about Burma. Frankly, there is not much here distinctive to that country. Instead, I came away with an answer to something that has puzzled me for years.<br />Post Battle Traumatic Stress gets a lot of press. Men I have known who fought in the front lines of some of the most savage battles in Asia in the 20th century seem to have escaped this problem. (I recall a tribesman from Java who was drafted to become a Japanese paratrooper: he told me with a bit too much relish about chopping up Allied soldiers with his sword.)  Even those who were bombed and starved into capitulation, or were chased out of their homeland, are at peace with themselves, having done their duty.<br />Fraser, who has certainly done his duty, points out the responsibility the press must bear for creating PBTS. Tell someone often enough that he is wounded, and he will feel pain.<br />The social climate can also wound a soldier. When the Asian soldiers I mentioned returned to their societies, they were honored and respected. Note the scene in Quiet Flows the Don where the young man go once again to listen to an elder tell his story about battles long past. Several of my Atayal neighbors were put in the front lines of the Japanese army; the Tribe still holds them in honor, not that they fought for Hirohito, but that they did their duty honorably.<br />America has not always been so. Read the Red Badge of Courage, where the young soldier is so eager to test himself in battle. Even a wound, horrible to contemplate in the days surgeons were aptly called Sawbones, was not the end of the world if it were honorable and entitled the old veteran to hold court sitting on a cracker barrel.<br />Has Western society civilized itself to the point where our psyches can no longer bear the taking of lives? Well, look at the popular TV shows and movies, or the best-selling video games where you go out and hack as many players as possible to death. Not that killing is good, but that a compassionate society can salve wounds. Wounds are salved with compassion, not by voyeuristic probing.ssionate society can salve wounds. Wounds are salved with compassion, not by voyeuristic probing.	2002-12-20
US	51100769	R33P2KT85AZ0W7	0865476381	168423336	The Other Side of Eden: Hunters, Farmers, and the Shaping of the World	Books	2	12	33	N	Y	3 cheers for hunters, 4 groans for farmers	I read this book with growing impatience. In a nutshell, what Brody says is: hunters = good!! Farmers = BAD!!! (Hunters, mind you, rely for most of their protein on women's gathering, which Brody relegates to two footnotes. Yeah, women do a lot work, but hey, I'm a man in a man's society, so that doesn't have anything to do with me.)<br /> I was puzzled by Brody's totally ignoring anybody but hunters and farmers, until I read (p236) &iexcl;§There is no intermediate figure, no third term, sitting between God and Satan.&iexcl;¨ It seems that in Brody's mind, boxed in by Judeo-Christianity, God = hunters and gatherers, farmers = Satan, and that's the whole story, all cultures are either hunting angels or demonic potato grower. Never mind that for some reason I had labored under the delusion that the early Jews were herders. My Biblical history is weak, and for Brody, that sort of category does not exist.<br /> Brody combines some profound ideas with bizarre notions. Thus (p176) &iexcl;§Perhaps all education has as its objective some form of breaking.&iexcl;¨ Anybody not thoroughly indoctrinated in Romantic ideology is sure to scream at this sentence, and think of dozens of refutations. But even if we do accept education as breaking. An eagle chick has to break its shell and lose its baby feathers in order to soar. So?<br /> The author devotes considerable energy to trying to prove that hunter-gatherers are settled, farmers not. I have a friend who is the 82nd recorded generation of his family; the previous 81 were all born in the same farming town (before the Communists took over China). I don't have the exact names and places at hand, but I read about a man in England whose DNA showed him to be descended from a person buried nearby 9,000 years ago. Isn't that enough stability?<br /> Humanity's main dispersion, from Africa to all over everywhere else, was accomplished by hunter-gatherers. Brody tries to get around this by saying the Indians believe their own creation myths, which say they were created in situ.<br /> This is not to deny tension between farmers and hunter-gatherers: it is a problem of how the land is to feed people, a matter of life and death. However, I feel we could justifiably say that our ancestors were not willing to sit back and admire the cultural achievements of hunters because they were scared to death. A farmer plants a seed, tends the crop, and harvests, bringing life. No surprise they were terrified when confronted with people who live by stalking and killing living things, existing by blood and gore. A farmer with a hoe has good reason to be afraid of a hunter with an arrow.<br /><br /> Again and again, Brody indignantly accuses farmers of considering hunting people &iexcl;¥not quite human.&iexcl;¦ Well, he also tells us that a hunter is in touch with the animals, visits them, and can come to an understanding with them (p103), and obviously admires their ability to achieve brotherhood with wild beasts, so why shouldn't farmers consider them not quite human? This is hardly their monopoly. Brody tells us that hunting tribes refer to themselves as Humans, implying that others are not quite human. But that's all right, see, because Hunters = good!!<br /> I was shocked on page 198 to see reference to chiefs. What? How could hunters have chiefs? Brody told us over and over how egalitarian they are.<br /> This is not the only contradiction. Hegel is rightly scorned for considering two million Indian lives a worthwhile price for progress (p267), but on the very next page the Spaniards are held to scorn for destroying the Aztecs who practiced human sacrifice, hundreds of thousands of Indian lives ended on bloody altars. Brody cannot bring himself to credit the Spaniards with repugnance at this dreadful religion. Spaniards are farmers, so they must be bad. We conveniently hide in a footnote that the Aztecs were hardly hunter gatherers. Neither were the Incas. Did they fare any better under the Spanish heel?<br /> I do not have space here to examine Brody's muddled arguments thoroughly, and frankly, I got so bored and exasperated that I did not read the last third of the book with extreme care. I think the crux of the matter is stated baldly on page 290: &iexcl;§I felt liberated from the anxious landscapes of middle-class Europe.&iexcl;¨ Like a modern Rousseau, Brody discovers a noble savage to save himself from his own anxieties.<br /> It is highly ironic that Brody's glorification of hunters, and thus meat-eating, contributes to the annihilation of the few hunting societies left. Very few readers will go out and hunt seal in the environmental and psychological balance Brody extols. Most will buy their meat. To produce meat for these consumers, big business buys cheap grazing land in Central America, where they chop down the rain forest and displace the Indians.<br /> Brody is to be commended for standing up for the dispossessed, but a greater service would be rendered their cause by a less dogmatic, less absolutist treatise.here to examine Brody's muddled arguments thoroughly, and frankly, I got so bored and exasperated that I did not read the last third of the book with extreme care. I think the crux of the matter is stated baldly on page 290: ¡§I felt liberated from the anxious landscapes of middle-class Europe.¡¨ Like a modern Rousseau, Brody discovers a noble savage to save himself from his own anxieties. <br /> It is highly ironic that Brody's glorification of hunters, and thus meat-eating, contributes to the annihilation of the few hunting societies left. Very few readers will go out and hunt seal in the environmental and psychological balance Brody extols. Most will buy their meat. To produce meat for these consumers, big business buys cheap grazing land in Central America, where they chop down the rain forest and displace the Indians. <br /> Brody is to be commended for standing up for the dispossessed, but a greater service would be rendered their cause by a less dogmatic, less absolutist treatise.	2002-12-16
US	51100769	R23IBT61750ZHH	0295979119	824687333	Art and Intimacy: How the Arts Began	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	A Book of Great Beauty and Vast Riches	I have been trying for some time to write a review of this book. I give up: I simply cannot do it justice in 1,000 words or less. The book is not flawless, but in the two years since I first read it, I have come back to it again and again, always learning something. It took a long time to read in the first place, because every few pages I would run into an idea that required a few days' thought.<br />The book is illustrated with wonderful photos. Nobody can look at those babies in Chapter 1 without smiling, thus proving Dissanayake's points. My particular favorite is the little girl in Sudan absorbed in her drawing (p197). Some photos I wish had been bigger. The mbari house on page 153 is barely distinguishable.<br />Anybody interested in human affairs will benefit from this book. Even those outside human concerns should read it, simply to see how perceptive and stimulating the ideas are.	2002-12-05
US	51100769	R2U9M4LY2R9RFV	068483457X	260745463	Hungry Ghosts	Books	5	102	106	N	N	Read it and weep	I immediately recognized the photo on the cover of Hungry Ghosts, a boy and two women (one carrying a baby) pulling a plow. When I first came to Taiwan, a few days after Lin Biao died and a few weeks before Nixon visited Mao, the government here frequently published this photo as evidence of how wrong things had gone in the PRC. Pooh, I thought, things can't possibly be as bad as they said. For proof I looked to the glowing reports published by the first American reporters to visit: one even brought along her father, who had been a missionary, and could speak some Chinese.<br />Years after Mao died, when the PRC started opening up, it became evident that the KMT had vastly understated its case, perhaps to avoid panic here. Hungry Ghosts documents a tragedy that the world hardly noted.<br /><br />I would be the last to claim expertise on PRC government affairs, but one reason I believe Hungry Ghosts is credible is that detail after detail meshes with bits and pieces I had picked up over the years, unaware of the extent of the disaster.<br />Example: Becker mentions the dams peasants had to build. In the early 1980s, Mr Wei, from a family of tea farmers in Fujian, told me why his relatives starved:&quot;We were told that tea is decadent and capitalistic. We were ordered to tear out all the tea trees and plant grain. Our family has farmed those hills for generation after generation. We know the soil, we know the climate, and we know that grain cannot grow there. We were ordered to build a dam. We didn't know how, so we asked the cadres. They said,'Ask an old farmer.' We had no choice, so a couple old farmers got together and planned a dam, even though they had never seen one, either. We toiled and toiled. Since we were producing no crops, we had little to eat. Finally, our dam was finished. As soon as we let the water flow, it washed away the dam. We asked the cadres what to do. They said, 'Grow tea.' But we couldn't harvest tea for several years. For three years, we had nothing to eat. Many of my relatives starved.&quot; Anybody who reads Hungry Ghosts will recognize the elements in this story. For me, practically the whole book reads like this, corroborating things I had seen and heard over the years.<br />Mr Becker speaks with authority on modern China, but his ancient history is weak. The first chapter opens with &quot;an inscription on a Shang tomb.&quot; I have never heard of an inscription on a Shang tomb. In, yes; on, no. If the inscription is translated correctly, it is hardly typical of early Chinese thought (unless the 'Emperor' refers to the god Di). Becker makes some outlandish comments about Confucianism. Okay, big deal, his book is about modern, not ancient China. His explanation that the Cultural Revolution was a response dealing with the GLF makes sense of an otherwise senseless convulsion.<br />Dear reader, this is a heart-breaking book. May you and I never suffer as those poor people suffered. May such times never come again.d nothing to eat. Many of my relatives starved.&quot; Anybody who reads Hungry Ghosts will recognize the elements in this story. For me, practically the whole book reads like this, corroborating things I had seen and heard over the years. <br />Mr Becker speaks with authority on modern China, but his ancient history is weak. The first chapter opens with &quot;an inscription on a Shang tomb.&quot; I have never heard of an inscription on a Shang tomb. In, yes; on, no. If the inscription is translated correctly, it is hardly typical of early Chinese thought (unless the 'Emperor' refers to the god Di). Becker makes some outlandish comments about Confucianism. Okay, big deal, his book is about modern, not ancient China. His explanation that the Cultural Revolution was a response dealing with the GLF makes sense of an otherwise senseless convulsion. <br />Dear reader, this is a heart-breaking book. May you and I never suffer as those poor people suffered. May such times never come again.	2002-11-06
US	51100769	RPQMTVVI6JDKZ	0786889152	327415185	Sunset Express: An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Crais takes revenger on OJ	Reading Free Fall and Voodoo River, I thought Crais was growing as an author (albeit I am several years behind copyright date). Sunset Express did not live up to my heightened anticipation. Crais may have been under pressure to pop out another in the series, and angry about the OJ mess, but that is not a formula for good writing. We have seen the jokes before (\\"Serbian-American humor\\" I am sure would be Elvis's comment. That's what he always says when anyone else tries to make a joke.) In Free Fall, Elvis wrangles information in trade for tickets to a concert; here Elvis wrangles information in trade for first-base-side-tickets to the Dodgers. In his next novel he'll probably wrangle information in trade to tickets to a NASCAR race, or a shuttle launching. Over and over Elvis says he is gonna shoot somebody. You can gain weight just by reading these books, with all their detailed descriptions of what is being eaten. I like Lucy, I am glad Elvis found her, and I enjoy the happiness of their being together, so who cares where her ex thinks she should stay on a business trip? In this day and age? Crais probably couldn't think of anything to write, so he probably threw that in to liven up the plot, wowie zowie, just like Alex Cross's loved ones always get some horribly frightening (but ultimately harmless) disease.<br />The book is slow, not very interesting, okay ending. Roger keeps throwing these at me, so I keep reading them, and they are sort of fun on a free evening, but it's still Spense and Hawk for me.	2002-10-18
US	51100769	R8YKZCWE27AJ9	0521358167	760568694	The Cambridge Companion to the Recorder (Cambridge Companions to Music)	Books	4	36	36	N	Y	Bravo, almost	Any recorder player will enjoy and learn from this book.<br />I have been playing the alto recorder for a year now. This book taught me a great deal about the instrument. What's even better,<br />the book carefully introduces the repertory and where to find and read about it.I am delighted to learn that I will never run out of material to play.<br />The book is written with care, verve, and love. However, the reader is assumed to have considerable knowledge, to know without explanation, for instance, the implications of wide windways and bores, and narrow windways (p178). The history of the 20th century recorder revival, of great interest to contemporary enthusiasts, is brushed off twice, as &quot;described and discussed in several publications.&quot; Fine, then why not this one? This should have been dealt with more carefully. The illustrations are very poorly reproduced. I am still suffering from eyestrain from trying to find the recorder in Plate 27.<br />Overall, though, this is a book any recorder player will want.	2002-10-17
US	51100769	RNZ6VQ48UYZIL	0553565095	399507971	Free Fall (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As exciting as free fall	Stalking the Angel was such a mess that I didn't want to read anything else by Robert Crais. My friend Roger insisted that I give Free Fall a try. I'm glad I did. This is one of the most exciting detective novels I have read.<br />Not flawless. Elvis's kicking hasn't improved much; his opponents are still on their feet after a volley of kicks. Crais still seems to think that eating heavily spiced food is a real macho deal. Joe Pike is just not real.<br />But gripes aside, this book is a load of fun to read. Dig in!!	2002-09-30
US	51100769	R2YE1HPZ23IMNQ	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Black is the word	This book is thoroughly researched and minutely detailed. The characters spend all their time getting mad.<br />The mechanics of Cornwell's writing is generally good, and she even gets off a couple memorable lines (\\"toxic waste in tight clothes\\"). However, some of the writing is stilted. Marino, the angry buffoon, never steps off the page for me; this may be because I've read none of Cornwell's other books. The scene where the young lady pulls up to the store and shouts the murder victim's name (to contrast with Bray's coldness) comes straight from Frosh Comp: Pathos.<br />I've never read a book so full of angry people, and I am including \\"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\\" in this appraisal. Cornwell must be an extremely unhappy person, who writes to deal with her rage.	2002-09-13
US	51100769	R14IONUIPCDGH8	0140080988	944757660	The Memory Palace of Matteo Ricci	Books	5	14	20	N	N	a superb portrait	All Sinophiles will enjoy this book about Matteo Ricci, the great-grand-daddy of us all. Spence stitches his story together cunningly, framing Ricci's life, times, and places on two of his publications, fitted one within the other. Ricci supplied Western religious pictures for a Chinese art book; he also wrote a memory course based on four Chinese characters. His analysis of the characters is nothing new, stock for thousands of years, but how the memory system is supposed to function is far beyond my powers of comprehension! If you know Chinese, remembering those four characters is a moment's snatch; recalling Ricci's convuluted directions and details is more trouble than it's worth.<br />Chutzpah! To teach memory to Chinese literati, who traditionally memorize not phrases or quotes, but chapters and books! But any missionary must be convinced that he is the only one who is right, the only one qualified to teach. Many literati Ricci sought to convert must have recalled the line in the Rites (Li Chi): \\"Etiquette knows only of coming to learn, not of going forth to teach.\\" How well did Ricci read the Chinese psyche? He scorned the robes of Buddhist monks because of their low social standing, and adorned himself in embroidered garments of silk. 400 years later, Buddhism is still gaining steam, while Christianity yet remains the province of a fringe.<br />Spence carves a vivid picture of Ricci's times in Europe, India, and China, with a very touching ending. He put so much work and authority into this book that I was quite surprised to read that the Ma in Ricci's Chinese name (Li Ma Tou) combines \\"two simple and unambiguous components -- a king and a horse.\\" Although beginners might confuse that thing on the left of this character for 'wang' king, that element is unequivocally 'yu' jade. This character is usually used in the combination for 'agate', thus the jade. Even if this character had anything to do with a king on horseback, in those days that image might be more likely to recall riders sweeping down from the North. Perhaps Spence used this as a rhetorical device to show how Ricci admired the Jew-hating, foolhardy king Sebastian.<br />Other than that, my only compunction about this book would be that Ricci reached China when the Ming dynasty, one of China's very worst, was collapsing. Mounted kings from Manchuria were conquering a tottering, corrupt dynasty. I wish Spence had stressed that Ricci saw China in days of decay, not glory or power.e likely to recall riders sweeping down from the North. Perhaps Spence used this as a rhetorical device to show how Ricci admired the Jew-hating, foolhardy king Sebastian. <br />Other than that, my only compunction about this book would be that Ricci reached China when the Ming dynasty, one of China's very worst, was collapsing. Mounted kings from Manchuria were conquering a tottering, corrupt dynasty. I wish Spence had stressed that Ricci saw China in days of decay, not glory or power.	2002-06-28
US	51100769	RLGPI3N9NU102	060960810X	466687802	Ubiquity: The Science of History . . . or Why the World Is Simpler Than We Think	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Games Physicists Play	It is a matter of degree. If I, with my degrees in Chinese Lit, were to hurl a hundred frozen potatoes at a wall, I would probably end up in a stait-jacket. If someone with degrees in Physics does that, it's research.<br />Mark Buchanan, however, does away with degrees. As the title of this book implies, all or nothing: Ubiquity is a sole authority. Only my knife cuts potatoes, no knife but mine can cut potatoes. While I agree that the existence of power laws is fascinating, I would not perhaps extend them as far as Buchanan does; I would be more interested in probing why distribution is so regular, rather than insisting that all phenomena must be explained by this, and only this, rule. A power law may signify that a country can be bled, or a forest burned, so far before you run out of fuel. This is more interesting than assuming that because the numbers resemble each other, the conditions necessarily illuminate each other. (As to the power law, please note the comments in Dennis Littrell's review of this book).<br />I got to the point where I dreaded having to read about yet another game that, amazingly enough, proves the power law (do any games disprove it?). Games seem to go to Buchanan's head, where they practically replace reality, which, needless to say, is far more complex. There are games and there are games, though. On page 126 (paperback version), Newton is praised for simplifying for ease of reasoning; then on page 142, economists are excoriated for simplifying for ease of reasoning. I never thought I would see the day that I stood up for economics, but isn't this a double standard? By the same token, after he so thoroughly debunked the efficient market hypothesis, I was surprised to read on page 188 that after war releases stress, 'each nation is brought back into rough balance with its true economic strength.' But as he says on the next page, 'None of this is meant to be fully convincing.' It's not.<br />Buchanan at times seems to forget that there is more to human history than wars and revolution, and that great people can change the course of history; where would we be today if George Washington Carver had not saved southern agriculture? Buchanan's total belief in the ubiquity of his games leads him to say something as ridiculous as \\"the mark of the great scientist lies not so much in having profound ideas that revolutionize science, but in taking ideas ... and making that potential real\\"(p183). ...limits our reviews to 1,000 words, so I will leave it this sentence for you to explode .<br />Even if we discount the role anybody but scientists and soldiers play in history, there should be some difference between incipient wars. Consider World War II, in which Germany and Japan geared for widespread conquest, planning meticulously years in advance. The German army would not have rolled through the center of Europe so irresistibly if the Hitler Youth had not trained the young so well; Japanese school children were primed to attack China before the Marco Polo Bridge Incident. Then compare this to the American Revolution, a beef far across the oceans between some (not all) ill-prepared colonists and a Great Britain preoccupied with India. Is it any surprise that WWII spread far and wide, while the American Revolution was fought locally?<br />I think the author has intriguing ideas, but he has overextended them. Nonetheless, Buchanan's doctrines have a familiar ring. Buddhism long has taught that any event is the result of an infinite number of causes, and the cause of an infinite number of results. The ideas in this book are well worth pondering, but with a grain of salt. One grain. Now, if you have a whole pile of grains of salt, one more might avalanche....more to human history than wars and revolution, and that great people can change the course of history; where would we be today if George Washington Carver had not saved southern agriculture? Buchanan's total belief in the ubiquity of his games leads him to say something as ridiculous as \\"the mark of the great scientist lies not so much in having profound ideas that revolutionize science, but in taking ideas ... and making that potential real\\"(p183). ...limits our reviews to 1,000 words, so I will leave it this sentence for you to explode .<br />Even if we discount the role anybody but scientists and soldiers play in history, there should be some difference between incipient wars. Consider World War II, in which Germany and Japan geared for widespread conquest, planning meticulously years in advance. The German army would not have rolled through the center of Europe so irresistibly if the Hitler Youth had not trained the young so well; Japanese school children were primed to attack China before the Marco Polo Bridge Incident. Then compare this to the American Revolution, a beef far across the oceans between some (not all) ill-prepared colonists and a Great Britain preoccupied with India. Is it any surprise that WWII spread far and wide, while the American Revolution was fought locally?<br />I think the author has intriguing ideas, but he has overextended them. Nonetheless, Buchanan's doctrines have a familiar ring. Buddhism long has taught that any event is the result of an infinite number of causes, and the cause of an infinite number of results. The ideas in this book are well worth pondering, but with a grain of salt. One grain. Now, if you have a whole pile of grains of salt, one more might avalanche....	2002-06-18
US	51100769	R3EM3HAAVYO3UG	1582431620	726716243	The Aztec Treasure House: New and Selected Essays	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	Wondrous hodge-podge	This wonderful book flows along like a river. Sometimes it bumps into boulders, swirls in an odd corner, or leaps down a waterfall. Connell throws in extraneous facts, skips from here to there,and gives enjoyable reading. He would be an author of great stature if he could refrain from his heavy-handed pose of jaded cynicism. Yes, we know there are nasty people in the world without being reminded at every possible cue. Yes, we know that many people in the English speaking world are execrable, too, even though we have produced nobody of Hitler's rank: where he uses Dresden to provide an example of an apartment crumbling during WWII, London also provided plenty of firebombed apartments, and they didn't even start the war. And anyway, all that is thoroughly traveled territory, inappropriate for a book that takes us into untraveled lands and unknown people.<br />These are great stories, told superbly. One thing puzzled me, though. Connell's eloquence failed him on perhaps the greatest journey of all. Compare his telling of the Cabeza de Vaca to the same story in DeVoto's Course of Empire. Strange.<br />But don't let this get in your way. Read and enjoy!	2002-06-10
US	51100769	R1SQWRBN7BH9MV	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Deaver Dithers, but WOW!	Deaver's love of excruciating detail has certainly exasperated many readers caught in his exciting stories: come ON!! Get on with the story!!!<br />I am not going to spoil the ending of this novel for you (you're welcome). Simply allow me to say, the plot really picks up just when you think all the dust has settled.<br />So find a comfortable chair for the long haul, and happy reading!<br />PS: If you read at night, you will probably want to turn on ALL the lights.	2002-04-24
US	51100769	RRN8XTNEUTBH7	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	2	12	16	N	N	read all about it: what detectives eat	A good rule for writers is, write what you know about. Stalking the Angel is a good example of what can go wrong when you ignore that rule. The author blows hard to convince us that he is a real tough guy who knows all about real tough things like martial arts, and ends up convincing us that he doesn't. (The note About the Author specifies that he lives with an Akita guard dog. What's he afraid of?) It seems that he researched his background by reading \\"Shogun\\" and eating in a bunch of Asian restaurants.<br />I do not expect a detective story writer to be an Orientalist, but the author screws up the background so often that it is distracting. Tang is a Chinese name. Naming your Japanese villain Eddie Tang is like having a Gestapo general named Paddie O'Brian. Maybe to the author, these Orientals all look alike, like waiters in a Chinese restaurant. Thus the sentence in which Elvis performs the \\"dragon kata from the taekwondo.\\" Dragon is a Chinese martial art element, not a kata, which is a Japanese term; adding a 'the' to Korea's tae kwon do is as annoying an affectation as his \\"the Nam\\". Maybe he's trying to show how macho he is, as in the scene -- which drags on for page after page -- in which the hero heroically eats all the pepper the sinister, ungrammatical Oriental cook puts in his food.<br />During and since the war, I have traveled all over Viet Nam, sometimes the only foreigner to set foot in a vicinity for years, and when I ate with these people, we all used chopsticks. Even in the boonies. Don't they know better? If they learned English and read American detective novels, they would discover the error of their ways. Crais informs us that people in Viet Nam don't use chopsticks. Either my friends were all mixed up, or the author was thinking of Burma, or maybe Indonesia. Can't tell all those pesky Orientals apart, can you, sir?<br />Belief must be suspended, credibility given wide leeway. If you kick someone in the side of the head with a reverse spin kick and he appears a few minutes later with a swollen cheek, either you didn't connect or your leg is made of cotton candy. Okay, one guard goes down, so the bad guys just walk away and let the hero sort of roam about at leisure in their stronghold. I did not realize California law was so lenient to PI's. Elvis and Joe go kill half a dozen bad guys, and go home: no inquest, no trial, just go home. Not even OJ got such a good deal.<br />Frankly, I thought the characters were paper-thin, especially Bradely Warren and Joe Pike.The only part of the book that really comes to life is the description of Traci Louise Fishman, a scared, lonely teenager. Here the author is dealing in territory he knows. The rest of it is like a Jet Lee movie: lots of posturing, but it's not the real stuff.k and he appears a few minutes later with a swollen cheek, either you didn't connect or your leg is made of cotton candy. Okay, one guard goes down, so the bad guys just walk away and let the hero sort of roam about at leisure in their stronghold. I did not realize California law was so lenient to PI's. Elvis and Joe go kill half a dozen bad guys, and go home: no inquest, no trial, just go home. Not even OJ got such a good deal. <br />Frankly, I thought the characters were paper-thin, especially Bradely Warren and Joe Pike.The only part of the book that really comes to life is the description of Traci Louise Fishman, a scared, lonely teenager. Here the author is dealing in territory he knows. The rest of it is like a Jet Lee movie: lots of posturing, but it's not the real stuff.	2002-04-08
US	51100769	R240YD8JAZMNN8	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a book with a bite	This exciting book is a lot of fun. There were some episodes that are a bit loose, and unnecessary, such as the attack by the kids in the Sire's house; we never learn how they got there, etc etc. But who cares? The book is a real thriller.<br />But I roared with laughter when I first opened the book and saw the dedication. So Kyle Craig is a real person, Patterson's FRIEND no less! Thanks a lot, pal. I can think of better ways to commemorate a friendship in literature. With friends like this, who needs vampires?	2002-04-05
US	51100769	RHKNWXC1VRQSP	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	excitement	Who wants to read some Nobel Prize winners boring prose when you can read James Patterson? Granted, his characters do tend to be a bit one-dimensional, and his plots run in grooves, but his books are unpretentious, exciting, and well written. If some 'innocent' defendent in a future novel can do in the odious Jules Halpern, so much the better.<br />One problem I have, though. In Patterson's books, only innocent victims die when they are killed. I don't care how well you swim, unless you're wearing a weight belt, only a corpse sinks --especially in salt water!!<br />Mr Patterson, keep up the good work, but please don't strain credibility.	2002-03-29
US	51100769	RAV1EPD4BZ497	0691006954	397885566	Alfred Russel Wallace: A Life.	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	worth reading	Bronowski's Ascent of Man acquainted me with the main facts of Wallace's life. Frankly, that sufficed... Raby did not delve deeply enough into aspects of Wallace's character or contributions. The value of Raby's detailed biography lies not in learning more about Wallace's travels or seances, but in his  careful, evenhanded examination of the relation between Darwin and Wallace.<br />Anybody pondering accusations of conspiracy would be well advised to read this book. The ending is particularly well done.	2002-03-27
US	51100769	R318HA2YRVC32O	0312252137	165562895	Savage: The Life and Times of Jemmy Button	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	well written, worth pondering: ...author!!	Jemmy Button was not a decisive figure in human history. Indeed, he would have lived out his life and died totally forgotten were it not for the chance of his being taken to England, and returned home on the immortal voyage of the Beagle. As such, he pops up from time to time in works on Darwin and evolution, and has always left me wondering, Darwin went on to fame and authority, what ever happened to Jemmy Button? Until now, for me at least, the question has been left hanging.<br />In this absorbing book, Hazlewood lets Darwin go his way, and tracks Button and the fascinating story of intentions -- good or pig-headed, as you will -- gone bad. This is not a dry academic publication. The same day I got this book, a friend lent me three detective novels -- one Jeffery Deaver and two James Pattersons -- but once I got my nose into Savage, I could hardly pull it out. From my previous reading, I had a picture of Captain Fitzroy as an unpleasant character, being forced to right his wrongs through no good will of his own. Hazlewood's research shows me that I seem to have been led astray. His Fitzroy is far more sympathetic than the one I had known.<br />An inferior artist leaves you gasping at his craft. Hazlewood is such an expert writer that you may read the entire book without really noticing the skill and work that must have gone into the creation of this book: fluent writing, careful research, and fine construction throughout.<br />Had Fitzroy never packed Jemmy Button off to England, perhaps the Fuegian Indians would have disappeared from this world without a trace. At least through the work of the missionaries, whatever their motive, a record has been left of their language and some of their culture (BTW, I disagree with the previous reviewer who said we are closer to the Yamana than to the Victorians; a romantic notion that hardly bears up to a moment's consideration.) This book leaves you with a lot to think about.<br />Permit me to quote Alfred Russel Wallace in exposition of the book's title: \\"The white men in our colonies are too frequently the true savages.\\"in exposition of the book's title: \\"The white men in our colonies are too frequently the true savages.\\"	2002-03-18
US	51100769	R2OK07JJFQ1IOD	0295977663	824819913	Hokusai and Hiroshige: Great Japanese Prints from the James A. Michener Collection, Honolulu Academy of Arts	Books	5	8	15	N	Y	a beautiful companion	I have not &quot;finished&quot; this book, nor do I intend to for a long time. I take it out to admire, print by print, sometimes reading the informative text, sometimes not. This is not a comic book to rush through. Linger, enjoy.	2002-01-27
US	51100769	R5BMFRTY9TTD3	0295977663	824819913	Hokusai and Hiroshige: Great Japanese Prints from the James A. Michener Collection, Honolulu Academy of Arts	Books	5	6	13	N	Y	a beautiful companion	I have not &quot;finished&quot; this book, nor do I intend to for a long time. I take it out to admire, print by print, sometimes reading the informative text, sometimes not. This is not a comic book to rush through. Linger, enjoy.	2002-01-27
US	51100769	R1FYWVC4LQKXS1	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Who's afraid?	Every year, 280,000 Americans die as a direct result of being overweight. This figure includes children aged six to ten who die from heart attacks caused by obesity. Probably the main reason for all this unhealthy fat is fast food.<br />  Do you love the people of the United States? Do you believe in a democracy in which every citizen is equally entitled to health and dignity?<br />  More specifically, do you want to know how to make informed choices concerning your own health?<br />  If so, read Fast Food Nation. Read carefully, read critically, and read courageously.<br />  Good health to all.	2002-01-23
US	51100769	R2AHCF3PFFCCYR	0140288716	267948031	The Falcon (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Freud and Rousseau should have read this book	This is an unsentimental account of a hunting-gathering life. Even with guns and metal knives, the Falcon faced starvation so frequently that it seemed practically routine. One of the saddest sentences is a simple, somewhat relieved declarative about a fever sweeping the area: &quot;Only one of my children died.&quot;<br />The writing is intense, and builds slowly. Tanner is anything but dramatic, but the events of his life command respect. This is a book that no author could have created artficially: its power is natural.<br />Nonetheless, I would have liked to learn something about where, when, and by whom the book was written. I suspect my Penguin paperback may be missing something. Page 228 refers me to a note at the end of the volume, but it is not there.<br />Generally, I do not care for Introductions. However, the Introduction by Louise Erdrich is worth reading carefully, before and after reading the narrative.	2001-05-31
US	51100769	R2SG569XF7KJES	0201567512	307953077	Great Mambo Chicken And The Transhuman Condition: Science Slightly Over The Edge	Books	3	18	27	N	N	5 star ideas, 2 star writing	The front cover blurb proclaims this book riotously funny. Yes, I did laugh once or twice, but the attitude of the book is more sneer than smile. Regis scorns these ideas as absurd. Jacques Monod (1965 Nobel Prize in Medicine) said that scientists often react in two stages to a new idea. First they scoff at the idea as absurd; then they say it&iexcl;¦s obvious.<br /> The author complains that religion should be giving us the ability to transcend the human condition, not science, forgetting that science (scientism) is the religion of people today. The people he lavishes contempt on are extending the limits of that realm.<br /> Regis loves the adjective hubristic. He can hardly get a page without it. Okay, some of these people are nuts. But I admire their imagination, and would have liked to learn about their (sometimes ridiculous) flights of fancy without the pomposity of the narrator. These nuts are following their ideas, wherever they take them, even to the edge of the universe. Regis place himself far above them, judging and condemning. Who is closer to humility?	2000-11-22
US	51100769	R1VSYGD9NRDM7U	0062702440	116288136	Peanuts: A Golden Celebration: The Art and the Story of the World's Best-Loved Comic Strip	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Peanuts deserves better, we deserve better	This is a delightful book. The photos and information of Charles Schulz (allow me an aside:: I think that Charlie &quot;BROWN&quot; is a  smokescreen: the main character of this strip is Charlie SCHULZ), his background, and his studio are wonderful for a lifelong fan (I'm a year younger than Linus). The commentary and selection are superb, and it's even fun to shake your head over some of the 'fan' mail he got.<br />Allow me a sour note: the editing is sloppy. Strip #5 on page 15 appears again on page 16. The lower four strips on page 149 are out of order: they should go #6, #3, #5, #4. Good grief! Confused order on page 168 threatens to ruin the story line. #5 on page 168 belongs on page 170. Line 4 on page 171 appears again on page 236 (not that I minded seeing it again, but it means one less strip for us to enjoy.)<br />You may think I've got too much time on my hands, to go through a comic collection so carefully, but come on! This *is* Peanuts, after all! What could matter more?	2000-11-20
US	51100769	R1YDLLR36WT0G	0156537060	345889881	The Lost World of the Kalahari	Books	5	12	14	N	N	As beautiful as the stars in the desert night	van der Post has put his soul into the making of every sentence of this beautiful book. His words are polished to the un-self-conscious ornateness of patterns of rock burnished by wind.<br />Even if Spode were half as odious as the author portrays him, he would be a real pain to deal with. What van der Post does not seem to realize, though, is the necessity of this counterpoise; if he had not existed, it would have been necessary to invent him. Spode's sourness sweetens van der Post's aim.<br />The book overpowers as a sunrise does. You may shut your eyes or turn away, but there are rich beauties to savor. My only regret is the lack of photographs.	2000-10-26
US	51100769	RA9Z0QNP2393W	0300080298	872959174	The Truth about Cinderella: A Darwinian View of Parental Love (Darwinism Today series)	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Thought-provoking	Before reading this book, I was already familiar with Daly and Wilson's work from Wright's Moral Animal, Pinker's How the Mind Works, and others, so frankly, this book did not contain a lot of new ideas for me. By no  means do I intimate that The Truth About Cinderella is not worth reading.  Definitely, definitely, read this carefully, especially if you harbor any  doubts about the validity of their findings, as they very neatly refute  critics.<br />The authors provide an ingenious explanation for the prevalence  of evil step-mothers in fairy tales: Mama's telling the bedtime stories.  Much as I admire this explanation, I wonder if there isn't more to it than  that. Let us leave fairy tales aside, and look at history, which abounds  with stories such as that of Duke Wen of Chin/Jin (7th c. BC). As a prince,  he was forced to flee for his life after his brother, the crown prince, had  been coerced into suicide by his father, at his step-mother's connivance.  You can probably provide similar stories. Now, please tell me a story about  the mother who puts her own child to death at the step-father's  insistence.... Does this reflect a sexist bias in historical records?  Perhaps Daly and Wilson have tacity answered this question in another  context: &quot;the payoff coming in the form of an increased chance to sire  the mother's next baby.&quot; Kids are easy (and fun) to come by once  you've got a woman, so maybe earlier kids can be sacrificed to keep the  woman (who may have cost a pretty penny) compliant.<br />To their discussion  of why step-families do generally work out after all (I call attention to  the ubiquity of infanticide, as shown by Marvin Harris in Cannibals and  Kings), I wish to add my speculation. Due to our big brain, human birth has  always been a dangerous event for women. I suspect step-families were far  more common in the paleolithic than now. Men outlived women &iexcl;Xprobably  outlived several wives. We know from the archaeological record that old  people, unable to fend for themselves, were taken care of &iexcl;Xobviously, by  the young and healthy. What I suggest, without a shred of hard evidence, is  that young men who looked after old men were aware that one day they might  find themselves dependent on the younger generation. It made sense for them  to tolerate step-children as well as their own gene-bearing children,  because some old-age insurance is better than none at all.<br />Finally, I  would like to add that Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson's Darwinism Today series  is thought-provoking, pleasingly designed, and well-printed, just the thing  to stuff into your pocket to take somewhere to read and ponder.<br />Have  fun!d  people, unable to fend for themselves, were taken care of ¡Xobviously, by  the young and healthy. What I suggest, without a shred of hard evidence, is  that young men who looked after old men were aware that one day they might  find themselves dependent on the younger generation. It made sense for them  to tolerate step-children as well as their own gene-bearing children,  because some old-age insurance is better than none at all. <br />Finally, I  would like to add that Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson's Darwinism Today series  is thought-provoking, pleasingly designed, and well-printed, just the thing  to stuff into your pocket to take somewhere to read and ponder. <br />Have  fun!	2000-06-12
US	51100769	R2EOERBEWFPEZB	0486213218	510470308	Chinese Characters: Their Origin, Etymology, History, Classification, and Signification: A Thorough Study from Chinese Documents	Books	1	25	44	N	N	Why is this still being published?	I am amazed to see that this decrepit old book is still polluting the study of Chinese etymology. The work is shot through with errors that should be obvious to anyone with the slightest inkling of the Chinese  scholarly contributions in this field over the last several centuries. It  is not enough to say the book is out of date. When Wieger was writing,  serious study of the oracle bones was well under way. Why did he show no  familiarity with the work of the earlier Ching etymologists and the  contemporary turtle bone scholars? Is ignorance an excuse? Since I began my  study of Chinese etymology almost thirty years ago,I have been asked  several times (always by Westerners) what I think of this book. My reply:  open it at almost any page and you can find some ridiculous error. No  wonder only Westerners consider Wieger an etymologist; he has no standing  among Chinese scholars.<br />Of course the book is not totally without merit.  The entire layout is visually pleasing, the  kai calligraphy is excellent,  and in particular the seal characters are very well done.  But his  discussion of the &quot;old graphies&quot; borders on the ludicrous. His  approach reminds me of the early &quot;Egyptologists&quot; who claimed that  hieroglyphics apprehended truth directly, and could be deciphered  independently of orthographic convention. Wieger does score a few hits on  simple characters. He provides workable descriptions of some later  inscriptions, the kind you see in Pots and Pans 101, and that any first  semester student should be able to read. Some of his ideas are surreal,  though, totally untenable when held against the body of the written Chinese  language. He presents a bronze plate, &quot;dating probably from the 20th  century BC... the oldest specimen known of Chinese writing.&quot; This  statement, along with his introductory sketch of the character chun/prince  through 45 centuries, shows that he had little of the historical sense so  vital to an etymologist.<br />If you wish to learn about the origin,  etymology, history, classification, and signification of Chinese  characters, look elsewhere.<br />If you wish to learn about the origin,  etymology, history, classification, and signification of Chinese  characters, look elsewhere.	2000-05-29
US	51100769	RYBWJSRLZ5K1W	0836282876	430819959	Poodle: The Other White Meat: The Second Sherman's Lagoon Collection	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Shark warning!	Beware! Do not read this book when you are eating or drinking. You will either choke or deliver the contents of your mouth all over the immediate environment.<br />Also not recommended for anyone who has undergone stomach or  throat surgery: you will burst your stitches.<br />so what are the rest of you  waiting for? Jump in, the water in the lagoon's great -- and it may not be  radioactive anymore.	2000-05-22
US	51100769	R3T9SV4EVMHEAD	0836236602	954409644	Sherman's Lagoon: Ate That, What's Next?	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	a loveable shark!	Do yourself a favor. Get this book.<br />Toomey has an incredible knack for turning things around so as you burst out laughing, you think, where does this guy get his ideas?<br />When you read this book, you are going to root  for the shark. I have spent years snorkeling in the ocean, and never  imagined I would be enamored of a loveable shark, but here he is, folks,  Sherman and his better half, Megan.	2000-05-22
US	51100769	R8DUOGAZD9U8I	0295974796	380304617	Homo Aestheticus: Where Art Comes From and Why	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	an invaluable masterpiece	In the four years since I first read this book, I have come back to it again and again, to verify points, to re-examine ideas, and to seek inspiration.<br />It is impossible to review this book adequately in 1000  words. Homo Aestheticus calls for a full-fledged course, to examine its  ideas and implications, and to compare similar trends in cultures  throughout the world.<br />Over and over as I read this book, I was amazed  (and amused) to see how closely Dissanayake -- quite unknowingly --  mirrored Confucian concepts and reasoning. If I were a librarian, I would  file this book under Confucianism.<br />Anybody interested in art, art  history, culture, anthropology, psychology, or sociology will benefit  deeply by devoting time and attention to this masterpiece.	2000-05-22
US	51100769	R2R6NLH13ARNPA	055337527X	319479123	The Prehistory of Sex: Four Million Years of Human Sexual Culture	Books	2	44	57	N	N	Interesting ideas that fall flat	This is a book with many interesting ideas that do not stand up to scrutiny.<br />Let us begin with the claim that early human beings had thick body hair, and that clothing was &quot;probably&quot; invented very early,  even before the use of fire. In The Wisdom of the Bones, Walker and Shipman  say that at 1.6 million years, the homo erectus was probably active at  mid-day, and had no thick body hair.<br />Page 34 says, &quot;humans could  never have been simply naked.&quot; Tell this to Australian aborigines,  Amazonian Indians, Irian Dani, Orchid Island Yami, or any of the other  people who remain in tropical environments (such as our species originated  in) without a stitch of clothing.<br />Concerning hides that might have been  used for clothing, in Making Silent Stones Speak, Schick and Toth say  (p161), &quot;in the very remote Stone Age past, our primary evidence for  hide working comes from Lower Paleolithic sites in Europe, the earliest  about 300,000 years ago.&quot;<br />As to language, The Wisdom of the Bones  says &quot;A series of careful analyses convinced Laitman that the earliest  hominids, like the australopithecines and habilines, were anatomically  unable to talk&quot; (page 281). &quot;True language seems to me to have  been a very recent acquisition&quot; (page 292).<br />A very nice point  appears (p49) about the development of language and song. Robin Dunbar  discusses this in Grooming, Gossip, and the Evolution of Language (p140):  &quot;the fact that music is located in the right hemisphere is one good  reason why the alternative suggestion that language evolved from song  cannot be wholly right. It's hard to see how something localized in the  right hemisphere can produce something localized in the left  hemisphere.&quot; I appreciate that Taylor said the two cannot be divorced,  not that language evolved from song. This needs work, from both  sides.<br />Page 76: &quot;You cannot easily value what you have no words  for.&quot; My foot. This statement goes against the whole Taoist  philosophy, as well as other traditions. The highest of the ancient Jewish  priests uttered the name of Jehovah (known only to them) once a year,  drowned out by the clash of cymbals, allowing no words for god because they  held him so priceless.<br />Taylor's refutation of Morgan's Aquatic  Hypothesis hardly convinced me (The Scars of Evolution is noticeably  missing from the bibliography). On page 35 he says the Aquatic Hypothesis  would have ended in extinction from crocodiles. We're better off with  tigers?<br />The identification of the, um, batons, erh, arrow straighteners,  ahhh ritual objects (p128-9) is one of those things where the reader says,  &quot;It's so obvious, why hadn't I ever seen that before?&quot; Also  extremely well done is The Secret Art of Initiation.<br />Chapter 6 was  disappointing. I found Taylor's outlook, looking back on the good old days  of hunting and gathering, disdaining farming, too romantic for my tastes.  On page 147-8 he claims farmers exploit, rather than trust the soil. I grew  up hearing my mother's eye-witness accounts of how emotionally devastated  Dust Bowl farmers were when the land failed in the 30s.<br />On page 152  Taylor say farmers lost detailed knowledge of plants, and then on page 222  says &quot;knowledge of herbal birth control continued down to the very end  of the medieval period.&quot; If Taylor hasn't  noticed this  contradiction, I will tactfully change the topic and ask, farmers deal with  plants all the time; who said they know about only cultivated plants? One  of the great herbal traditions is Chinese, certainly agricultural. Farmers  here in Taiwan have detailed knowledge of the wild plants growing outside  their fields. In our climate, that's a lot of varieties. Not just farmers:  you often see city people out on weekends picking through the underbrush  for edible plants and herbs.<br />Colin Tudge said &quot;Britain retains less  of its pristine forestthan any other country in Europe...Britain's  conservational record is possibly the worst in the world&quot; (The Time  Before History, p334-5). Friends who have been to England say there's no  wilderness. Maybe Taylor says farmers don't know about wild plants because  there aren't any left in England.<br />Sloppy logic on page 153: &quot;It was  for this purpose that fired pottery seems to have been invented.&quot;  Fired pottery was invented. He probably meant, &quot;It seems to have been  for this purpose that fired pottery was invented.&quot;<br />I liked the  observation (p154) that &quot;men got involved in farming when animals  became important,&quot; but now I'm wondering. China was clearly, beyond a  doubt, patriarchal at the latest by say 2000 BC, but animals became  important much later. They raised pigs and whatnot, but Chinese have always  eaten primarily vegetable foods. Plowing was by manpower, done by the males  (the Chinese character for 'power' is a pictograph of a plow; 'male' is a  field and a plow). Wheelbarrows were used for bulk transport. The earliest  plow animals and draft animals would probably have been about the Han  dynasty (2nd century BC to 2nd century AD), pretty late.<br />We read about a  female army of life-size terra cotta figures in China (page 205). I've  followed Chinese archaeological finds for over 15 years; if such an army  existed, I suspect I would have heard about it.<br />I'm still working on the  sentence on page 228: &quot;Different lengths and shapes are common to  different people.&quot; Are they different or common? Slipshod  writing.<br />The idea that warfare always has some racial component (page  246) is ridiculous. Were Roundheads and Cavaliers of different races? For  this to hold water, Taylor had better come up with some fancy new  definitions of either 'warfare' or 'race.' Also ridiculous is the idea of a  slow differentiation of the hostile groups. Are Danes, Saxons, Angles, and  Picts still differentiated in England? The evidence against this is  overwhelming, including page 252, which cites Scythian and Thracian, or  Celtic intermarriage.<br />All in all, this is an interesting, but lethally  flawed book.e forest than any other country in Europe...Britain's  conservational record is possibly the worst in the world&quot; (The Time  Before History, p334-5). Friends who have been to England say there's no  wilderness. Maybe Taylor says farmers don't know about wild plants because  there aren't any left in England. <br />Sloppy logic on page 153: &quot;It was  for this purpose that fired pottery seems to have been invented.&quot;  Fired pottery was invented. He probably meant, &quot;It seems to have been  for this purpose that fired pottery was invented.&quot;<br />I liked the  observation (p154) that &quot;men got involved in farming when animals  became important,&quot; but now I'm wondering. China was clearly, beyond a  doubt, patriarchal at the latest by say 2000 BC, but animals became  important much later. They raised pigs and whatnot, but Chinese have always  eaten primarily vegetable foods. Plowing was by manpower, done by the males  (the Chinese character for 'power' is a pictograph of a plow; 'male' is a  field and a plow). Wheelbarrows were used for bulk transport. The earliest  plow animals and draft animals would probably have been about the Han  dynasty (2nd century BC to 2nd century AD), pretty late.<br />We read about a  female army of life-size terra cotta figures in China (page 205). I've  followed Chinese archaeological finds for over 15 years; if such an army  existed, I suspect I would have heard about it. <br />I'm still working on the  sentence on page 228: &quot;Different lengths and shapes are common to  different people.&quot; Are they different or common? Slipshod  writing.<br />The idea that warfare always has some racial component (page  246) is ridiculous. Were Roundheads and Cavaliers of different races? For  this to hold water, Taylor had better come up with some fancy new  definitions of either 'warfare' or 'race.' Also ridiculous is the idea of a  slow differentiation of the hostile groups. Are Danes, Saxons, Angles, and  Picts still differentiated in England? The evidence against this is  overwhelming, including page 252, which cites Scythian and Thracian, or  Celtic intermarriage.<br />All in all, this is an interesting, but lethally  flawed book.	2000-04-09
US	51100769	R1SDRZ4D3U2SF6	0451525043	502025919	Kidnapped (Signet Classics)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Don't let the kids have all the fun	I was surprised to see some reviewers didn't like this wonderful book. If you have trouble with the Scottish accent, read it out loud, use your imagination, and if you still can't figure it out, skip a bit. (Do you  insist on understanding every single word spoken in a movie?)<br /><br />This is  the story of a young man overcoming adversity to gain maturity and his  birthright. It moves right along, in Stevenson's beautiful prose. Read, for  example, this sentence from Chapter 12: \\"In those days, so close on  the back of the great rebellion, it was needful a man should know what he  was doing when he went upon the heather.\\" Read it out loud; it rolls  along, carrying the reader back to Scotland, even a reader like me, who  doesn't know all that much about Scottish history. Kidnapped is by no means  inferior, and in many ways superior to the more famous Treasure  Island.<br /><br />Only two points I would like to bring up: I bought the Penguin  Popular Classics issue, and have sort of mixed feelings. Maybe some day  I'll get the version illustrated by Wyeth. I'm not sure whether this book  needs illustrations, though. Stevenson's vivid writing is full of  pictures.<br /><br />In Chapter 4, David makes a point of saying that he found a  book given by his father to his uncle on Ebenezer's fifth birthday. So? Is  this supposed to show how much Ebenezer aged due to his wickedness? If  anybody could explain this to me, please do.<br />This was originally posted in 2000. I am updating it in June 2006: many thanks to alert reader Beth Smith, who very kindly informed me that the significance is that David's father was older than the uncle.  Therefore the father, and now David, was the rightful owner of the estate of Shaws.<br />Ok, gotcha, clear now, and I'll reread it. Thanks to Ms Smith, and to Amazon for this forum.	2000-03-06
US	51100769	R1A738LEEC59GF	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	5	59	88	N	N	Read carelessly, read carefully, just read it	We can read this book at several levels. Jung said somewhere that a dream can be interpreted at many levels, and every interpretation is right. (If Jung didn't say it, I did, and he would have said it.)<br /> On the  surface, Passage informs contemporary England of the state of affairs in  India. At the same time, it shows how East and West differ. It also leaves  a record for later generations about English colonialism, the relations  between Hindus and Muslims in India, social practices, and speech, and the  historian may even infer quite a bit about the industrialization and  technology of the early twentieth century.<br /> In &quot;Homo  Aestheticus,&quot; Ellen Dissanayake says, &quot;Behavior is, essentially,  choice.&quot; To analyze Forster's book (or any work of art), we have to  ask, why did the author choose these particular elements to express  whatever was in his mind? (A novel is more than Stendhal's mirror; it  expresses what the author sees, and what the author sees is decided by what  the author is.) Here we slip into deeper strata.<br /> India, the dark,  amorphous, timeless, ancient land, represents the unconscious, peopled by  unknowable, unreachable, dark-skinned masses worshipping an accumulation of  gods in a number of tongues. The identity of India as the unattainable  contents of the unconscious is indicated by the very first conversation in  the book, in which two Indians tell the third that they are dead, in  &quot;another and a happier world.&quot;<br /> Adele Quested, the noble  quest, is an intrusion from the known, civilized conscious. This female  character goes past the outposts of light into the darkness of India,  where, because she is introduced by aged Mrs Moore (more), she is escorted  into the womb of the rock at the Malabar caves by Dr Aziz (A through Z is  everything). Dr Aziz may escort her because he is not a true denizen of the  inner world (he is the third Indian, not &quot;dead&quot;), he is a modern  healer who originated in Muslim Afghanistan: a bridge.<br /> When Quested  enters the cave, she is, or is not confronted by a shadow which may have  been guiding her. In her struggle to avoid the union of male and female,  conscious and unconscious, she loses her vision (her field glasses) and,  because she rejects the shadow, the injuries she suffers (earns) are only  skin-deep; her compatriots do not permit the cactus spines to enter her  blood.<br /> Since Mrs Moore, the prescient old woman, does not assert Dr  Aziz's innocence, she dies as soon as she reaches the sea, the eternal,  unfathomable depths of life and psyche.<br /> Fielding, the educator, ego,  wishes to befriend Aziz, but Aziz, wounded, enters deeper into polytheistic  India, the unconscious which he hopes to unite, but the horses, the earth,  the temples don't want it. Fielding never marries Quested. Although the  book is titled A PASSAGE to India, practically the whole book takes place  *in* India, and yet, passage is never realized.<br /> Now it would be  absurd to suggest that Forster sat chewing his pencil thinking, &quot;What  symbol am I to use to show the quest had only superficial results? Cactus,  that's it!&quot; The book succeeds because his mind was ordered and open  enough to dredge up the effective symbol: effective for him, effective for  us.<br /> What I propose is that work which delves deep into the  unconscious cultivates psychological growth and, by inspiring internal  harmony, alleviates problems, if only by facing them. This is the standard  I would raise to distinguish good (successful) art (art which succeeds in  promoting psychological growth) and mediocre art, the product of shallow  minds.ted in Muslim Afghanistan: a bridge.<br /> When Quested  enters the cave, she is, or is not confronted by a shadow which may have  been guiding her. In her struggle to avoid the union of male and female,  conscious and unconscious, she loses her vision (her field glasses) and,  because she rejects the shadow, the injuries she suffers (earns) are only  skin-deep; her compatriots do not permit the cactus spines to enter her  blood.<br /> Since Mrs Moore, the prescient old woman, does not assert Dr  Aziz's innocence, she dies as soon as she reaches the sea, the eternal,  unfathomable depths of life and psyche.<br /> Fielding, the educator, ego,  wishes to befriend Aziz, but Aziz, wounded, enters deeper into polytheistic  India, the unconscious which he hopes to unite, but the horses, the earth,  the temples don't want it. Fielding never marries Quested. Although the  book is titled A PASSAGE to India, practically the whole book takes place  *in* India, and yet, passage is never realized.<br /> Now it would be  absurd to suggest that Forster sat chewing his pencil thinking, &quot;What  symbol am I to use to show the quest had only superficial results? Cactus,  that's it!&quot; The book succeeds because his mind was ordered and open  enough to dredge up the effective symbol: effective for him, effective for  us.<br /> What I propose is that work which delves deep into the  unconscious cultivates psychological growth and, by inspiring internal  harmony, alleviates problems, if only by facing them. This is the standard  I would raise to distinguish good (successful) art (art which succeeds in  promoting psychological growth) and mediocre art, the product of shallow  minds.	2000-02-18
US	51100769	R2DIIEX0MYSVRD	0451931416	863297326	Stephen King: The Bachman Books, Thinner	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Oh, this is supposed to be scary?	This book was recommended to me as an exciting read. I kept waiting for the excitement, right up to the last page. Then I started asking myself, &quot;What is there in this book that might possibly interest anyone?  Why?&quot;<br />This book could have been called &quot;Shallower,&quot;  because, as any artifact is an expression of the psyche that crafted it,  this book represents the ego's rejection of experience and wisdom.<br />Ego,  involved in non-[re]productive sensual thrills in an inappropriate time and  place, wipes out the wise old woman of experience archetype, so the evil  old man, a rootless character with an unbecoming visage, takes revenge by  causing ego to waste away. (If this were a Chinese book, it would be a lot  thinner, because ego would simply find a monk or sorcerer to undo the  spell. No big deal. Many sections of this book confused me until I realized  it was supposed to be scary.)<br />The book is indicative of King's psyche,  and the book's popularity accords with modern American taste: fun above  maturity. I strongly doubt that many people will find the book worth  reading when another generation brings its particular mindset to the scene.  What I call good art strikes a chord with surface, contemporary concerns, a  deeper, personal psychology, *and*  bottomless, eternal mind.<br />Okay,  maybe we shouldn't ask too much of a Stephen King thriller (art? art? ),  but really!  Can't you find something better to do with your time?	2000-02-09
US	51100769	R3OGP35LJOT9JF	0375700730	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Flip out!	This is a good book.Sacks is a good writer, he tells a moving story, his descriptions of diving are fine, and the ending is truly beautiful.<br />However, I am going to take this opportunity to comment on a trend I have noticed, and take exception to. This book has 199 pages of text followed by 67 pages of notes. In other words, the notes are about one third of the text. This is inexcusable. Six pages in the final chapter are accompanied by no less that TEN pages of notes. Frankly, I got tired of being interrupted by the author.<br />I feel that writers are getting sloppy. Rather than work an aside gracefully into the text, writers just dump all these digressions into footnotes and let the reader flip.<br />If we are going to pile up footnotes, we need to revise the format, maybe even return to the old usage of putting footnotes at the foot of the page.	2000-02-09
US	51100769	R2RC91TMEGXXGW	0521454980	650946704	The Cambridge Illustrated History of Archaeology (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A book to enjoy over and over	This is a wonderful book. If you are interested in archaeology, you want this book. The interesting, informative text is richly illustrated. The printing is excellent.<br />However, I am going to be churlish and gripe. What  about China? The terracotta army? (three quarters of page 322). Come on,  everybody's granduncle knows about the terracotta army. Staggering finds  are popping up all over China, and all Cambridge gives us is the terracotta  army.<br />What kind of finds? Okay, a peculiarity of Chinese archaeology is  that there are very few early religious sites, so let me tell you about  three of them: from the neolithic Hungshan culture of nothern China, a  temple with statues of nude goddesses; from the neolithic Liangzhu culture  of central China, altars with thousands of incredible pieces of jade,  engraved with images that must be gods; from Sichuan in the southwest, the  mysterious Sanxingtui sacrificial pits, with the astonishing seven foot  tall bronze statue of (?) a shaman, and astounding bronze masks=-=- and  don't forget that I just said religious sites are not common. With all this  activity in Chinese archaeology, they show us the terracotta army  AGAIN!<br />but other than that, it's a great book. You'll enjoy it!	2000-01-17
US	51100769	R102B9WEN61EQH	0691011605	69884567	The Hunting Apes	Books	2	27	42	N	Y	A Weak Little Book	This is not a work of fiction, so the reader's response should not be &quot;Did I like it?&quot; but &quot;What did I learn?&quot; The answer is, little. (I should qualify that by saying I have read quite a bit on this  topic.) Stanford presents little that cannot be found elsewhere, more  incisively. Every time you think he is going to say something, he shies  off. In fact, I think there is only one sentence in the whole book:  &quot;While women may collect most hunter-gatherer protein, we should not  ignore the fact that men are able to use meat for their own selfish and  manipulative political ends.&quot; (p212) This is new?<br />  I was taken  aback by Stanford's approach. &quot;This has yet to be shown. But the  notion that a high-quality diet frees the metabolism of an evolving hominid  to develop a larger and larger brain is extremely appealing because it  would explain both the trend toward greater encephalization and toward more  meat in the diet of the evolution of the human lineage (p50-51).&quot;  Appealing? (Also, I never knew that evolution had a diet.) &quot;Surely  bonobos and gorillas ought to make use of such a valuable resource whenever  possible.&quot; (p95) Come on, you guys, get with it, what's the matter  with you, why don't you eat hamburgers, like God intended us to? I wish  Stanford would just come out and say, &quot;Eating meat is good for you,  because I was raised on an American diet with plenty of meat, and I know  what I want to hear and what you want to hear. Therefore, I am going to  prove that eating meat is good for you, and what's more, it's good for all  of us. Dumb gorillas, don't know a valuable resource when they see  one!&quot; Stanford's method reminds me of the half joking advice to young  scholars: &quot;Put forth your hypothesis, examine all the evidence, and  throw away everything that does not agree with your hypothesis.&quot;  I was also aware that academics prefer not to give credit to Ardrey's  African Genesis, which effectively kicked off evolutionary psychology.  Nonetheless, I was surprised to read on page 182 that &quot;In their search  for evidence that modern people operate on a cognitive plane shaped by a  long history of natural selection, evolutionary psychologists have erred in  their level of analysis. There is no reason to consider the cognitive  domains by which we respond to our social environment to be uniquely  human.&quot; I thought that was the whole point of evolutionary psychology,  that our congnitive domains are NOT uniquely human.<br />In short, if you  wish to learn something, I suggest you read The Wisdom of the Bones by  Walker and Shipman, Moral Animal by Wright, Lemur's Legacy by Russell, or  any one of a large number of books that are more tightly reasoned than this  one.sis, which effectively kicked off evolutionary psychology.  Nonetheless, I was surprised to read on page 182 that &quot;In their search  for evidence that modern people operate on a cognitive plane shaped by a  long history of natural selection, evolutionary psychologists have erred in  their level of analysis. There is no reason to consider the cognitive  domains by which we respond to our social environment to be uniquely  human.&quot; I thought that was the whole point of evolutionary psychology,  that our congnitive domains are NOT uniquely human. <br />In short, if you  wish to learn something, I suggest you read The Wisdom of the Bones by  Walker and Shipman, Moral Animal by Wright, Lemur's Legacy by Russell, or  any one of a large number of books that are more tightly reasoned than this  one.	2000-01-16
US	51100769	R1EFULCL6J0NUW	0312154917	141180450	Carl Gustav Jung	Books	4	20	24	N	N	An indispensable sour companion	Anybody interested in Jung should read this  book, but read it with a grain of salt. The author is no great admirer of Jung; was this a result of learning so much about him while writing his biography? I do not know, but  I am grateful to McLynn for writing a book that has taught me so much about  a man who has taught me so much.<br />That said, let me state that this book  can by no means substitute for reading Jung. The brilliance, fire, and life  of his writing is almost entirely absent from this book: a great loss.<br />Also absent are photographs. I would like to see what Jung and Co.  looked like at various stages.<br />So let's put out a new version with  photos!	1999-12-20
US	51100769	REFCIGTHLRVCB	0684837102	872743434	If a Lion Could Talk: Animal Intelligence and the Evolution of Consciousness	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Laugh and learn	Budiansky performs a valuable service in this book: he casts a skeptical eye on a lot of very  enthusiastic theorizing. I enjoy his sense of humor,  and wish he had kept it up. The book bogs down. I got bored reading about  the umpteenth  clever experiment in which some animal presses, or does not  press, a lever at some stimulus. Bored and envious: while I'm working for a  living, these people are raking in good grant money for playing with  chimpanzees? I should have studied biology!<br />The last chapter's attacks on  evolutionary psychology didn't sit well with me. Budiansky has deliberately  chosen the more untenable theories to attack, and ignored the field's  provocative contributions. He could have down without a lot of the  shouting.<br />As to Budiansky's central arguments, he would have profited  greatly from the on-line, off-line thinking Derek Bickerton put forth in  &quot;Language and Human Behavior.&quot;<br />Discussions about animal  language and consciousness miss a point: language is first and foremost a  tool, and even trained apes don't use that tool. They miss the first  criterion of language, that it is something to be used. I have never read  an account of Chimp A using ASL with Chimp B, or transmitting it to Chimp  C. Human language is the most efficent communcation device in the animal  kingdom. If gorillas and chimpanzees do grasp the concepts of language, why  don't they use it with each other?<br />In closing these random remarks, let  me comment that I for one am just as happy lions can't talk. Little could  be more disconcerting than walking across the savanna and hearing a voice  from behind some bushes saying, &quot;Oh goodie, just when I was so hungry,  it's one of those delicious hairless things that can't run very fast.&quot;	1999-10-25
US	51100769	RT9U5ZE5OO84C	0393038386	268744162	The Symbolic Species: The Co-Evolution of Language and the Brain	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Devote some time to this book	This is not a book you breeze through. I am not sure which confused me more, the illustrations or their explanations. The discussion about symbols  in Chapter 3 is prolix, and should have been done better. Also, I suspect  Deacon's conclusions concerning meat-eating are culturally biased.  Nonetheless, this is a book anyone interested in cogntion or psychology  (especially evolutionary psychology) should read carefully. We often  construct glorious theories about how the brain evolved, or how certain  behaviors came to be. Deacon is the nuts-and-bolts man. He demands, and  provides, invaluable explanations for what goes on in the brain. As I  reached his conclusions, I kept thinking this all sounds awfully familiar:  ritual. Oh yes, that's what Confucians have been telling us for the last  couple dozen centuries. For example, concerning marriage as the key ritual  which prompted mental evolution, the Rites (say 2300 years ago) said,  &quot;Marriage is the root of all ritual.&quot; Another typical comment is  Hsun Shuang: &quot;Long ago, the Sages established order among heaven and  earth, and called it ritual. Among all ritual, marriage comes first&quot;  (166 AD). How nice, neuroscience catches up with Confucius. Buy this book,  devote some effort to working your way through, and you will benefit  immensely.	1999-09-30
