US	51116445	R333H24UATRNEY	0853980195	80273182	God Loves Laughter	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A hilarious account of Sear's discovery of the Baha'i Faith	<br />Born in Minnesota in 1911 of an Irish father, Sears made his father nervous from the time he spoke at six months. At 18 months he knew words that his father didn't know and had his first dream. By the time he was five he was making his father's life a misery with his inordinate interest in God so he was sent to Sunday school. \\"Let the boy worry Father Hogan for a while. I pay my pew-rent regularly and hardly ever use it. Let him earn the money.\\" But this only opened up an abundance of new questions for Sears to ask his father. We follow Sears through his childhood with a laugh on every page. Much of the time he is bounced between mother, father, priest and grandfather as each give their interpretation of God, his dreams and his conviction that he would travel the world telling people about God. He started his writing career one summer before graduating from grade-school after reading a poem while having his hair cut. He sold his masterpiece for $7.50 and skyrocketed to fame.  <br /> <br />After marrying and having two sons Sears entered a bleak period in his life when his wife died and his youngest child had to be placed in a sanatorium. He had been pushed further from his dream and more into a world that cared very little about the things of the spirit when he was offered the first of many jobs at a radio station. One day a vision of loveliness walked into studio A and five drooling men watched her through the big studio window during the interview.  \\"It was the most wonderful lunch I ever ate. I have no recollection of the food, but her voice was Pablo Casal's cello.\\" They went for a drive and Marguerite told him about Baha'u'llah, the founder of the Baha'i Faith. At this point the one subject Sears never cared to discuss was religion, having investigated every religion, sect, cult and belief he could find in East and West. For three years Sears had not mentioned his dream to anyone and he only told Marguerite because he wanted her to know all about him before asking her to marry him. She gave him a book - a record of the public talks given by `Abdu'l-Baha during his visit to America from the Holy Land before the First World War. Inside the fly-leaf there was a tribute to Baha'u'llah by Leo Tolstoy, who had written: \\"The whole world is seeking the solution to its problems. There is a prisoner in `Akka, Baha'u'llah, who has the key.\\" \\"I began to read. It was about two o'clock when I found out why Marguerite had become so excited when I mentioned my boyhood dream. I felt a stab-like thrill myself as I turned one of the pages and saw the date: September 20, 1912. It was the very day and year of my first dream.\\"  <br /> <br />At their first Christmas, with sons now reunited, Marguerite read the words of Baha'u'llah about Christ to show that as a Baha'i she believed in Jesus: \\"When Christ came into the world, He shed the splendor of his glory upon all created things. Jesus it was who purified the World. Blessed is the man who, with a face beaming with light, hath turned towards Him.\\" They stopped at Lookout Point above Salt Lake City. \\"A premonition of what I was about to see began to grow on me. I stepped to the ledge, and there lying below me was the magic city I had seen so clearly in my dream.\\" When they got home, Marguerite showed him a photograph. \\"I looked into those same haunting, tender eyes. I saw the white beard, soft as silk, the flowing white robes, the smile of eternal kindness. I was deeply moved. This is the man.\\" She said, \\"That is Abdu'l-Baha.\\" <br /> <br />Sears could no longer ignore what was happening to him; he read extensively and traveled widely to discover the truth for himself. He has written the detailed story of his discoveries and the steps that led up to it in `Thief in the Night.' The title is taken from Christ's quotation about the hour of His return when, \\"Catching mankind unprepared and uninterested, `He shall come like a thief in the night.'\\" Originally he called the book `The Case of theMissing Millenium' for it turned out to be one of the most absorbing and exciting mysteries imaginable. No one had been able to solve the mystery for over a hundred years, when suddenly the answer fell into his lap. Professor Edward Granville Browne of Pembroke College, Cambridge University had written about the rise of the Bahai Faith: \\"I feel it is my duty, as well as pleasure, to bring the matter to the notice of my countrymen. In my eyes, the whole story seems one of the most interesting and important events that have occurred since the rise of Christianity.\\" Professor Benjamin Jowett of Balliol College, Oxford, wrote in similar vein: \\"It is the greatest thing to come to the earth since the days of Jesus, the Christ. It is too great for the present to understand it, but the future will understand it.\\" Sears had found the meaning of his dream at last and declared himself a Baha'i. He put aside a well paid television job and fulfilled his promise that \\"if ever I found out the truth about my dream I'd go all over the world and share the news of my discovery.\\" But that is the story in another book \\"Black Sunlight.\\" <br />	2004-08-09
US	51116445	R1VQJR38OG31T0	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	5	164	176	N	N	For those open to the concept of reincarnation	Weiss, Chief of Psychiatry at a large university-affiliated hospital in Miami, first met 27 year old Catherine in 1980 when seeking help for her anxiety, panic attacks and phobias. For 18 months he used conventional methods without success but then in a series of hypnotic trance states Catherine recalled past-life memories that proved to be the causative factors of her symptoms leading to her cure within a few months. She did not believe in reincarnation but acted as a conduit for secrets of life and death from highly evolved spirit entities, some of which were specifically for him. Weiss's life would never be the same again. <br /> <br />When the guide described artifacts at an Egyptian exhibit she found herself correcting him and at the next treatment Weiss regressed her, asking her to recall earlier ages; \\"Go back to the time from which your symptoms arise.\\" \\"We live in a valley; there is no water; the year is 1863 B.C. The area is barren, hot and sandy. There is a well, no rivers. Water comes into the valley from the mountains. There are big waves knocking down trees. There's no place to run. It's cold; the water is cold. I have to save my baby, but I cannot; just have to hold her tight. I drown; the water chokes me.\\"  In later sessions he found that her experience of death in her many lives was similar each time. A conscious part of her would leave the body around the moment of death, floating above and then being drawn to a wonderful, energizing light. She would then wait for someone to come and help her. The soul automatically passed on. Weiss investigated references to reincarnation. \\"In A.D. 325 the Roman emperor Constantine the Great, along with his mother, Helena, had deleted references to reincarnation contained in the New Testament. The Second Council of Constantinople, meeting in A.D. 553, confirmed this action and declared the concept of reincarnation a heresy. Apparently, they thought this concept would weaken the growing power of the Church by giving humans too much time to seek their salvation. Yet the original references had been there; the early Church fathers had accepted the concept of reincarnation. The early Gnostics - Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Saint Jerome, and many others - believed they had lived before and would again.\\" <br /> <br />Between sessions Catherine became more psychic, having intuitions about people and events that proved to be true. Her father, expressing doubt about what was happening, was amazed when she picked the winner of every race, although she gave the winnings to a poor person as she knew that her new spiritual powers should not be used for financial gain. She recalled periods between lives. \\"I am aware of a bright light. It's wonderful; you get energy from this light.\\" She then spoke in a different voice. \\"Our task is to learn, to become God-like through knowledge. We know so little. You are here to be my teacher. I have so much to learn. By knowledge we approach God, and then we can rest. Then we can come back to teach and help others.\\"  \\"They tell me there are many gods, for God is in each of us.\\"  She later identified the masters, highly evolved souls not presently in body, as the source. They could speak to him through her. Although he had kept a strictly professional distance, telling nothing about his personal life, Catherine explained the deeper meaning - payment of karmic debts and  teaching lessons - of the one-in-ten million  heart defect that caused the death of his first born child when 23 days old. \\"Catherine could not possibly know this information. There was no place even to look it up.\\" \\"Who tells you these things?\\" \\"The Master Spirits tell me. They tell me that I have lived eighty-six times in physical state.\\" He pondered the miraculous messages  and the implications. \\" The light after death and the life after death; our choosing when we are born and when we will die; the sure and unerring guidance of the masters; lifetimes measured in lessons learned andtasks fulfilled, not in years; charity, hope, faith, and love; doing without expectation of return - this knowledge was for me. But for what purpose? What was I sent here to accomplish?\\" He realized that faults are not important - love is. He did not need to try to be perfect or in control all the time. There was no need to impress anyone.  <br /> <br />Psychiatrists use high doses of tranquilizers and antidepressant medicines to treat people with Catherine's symptoms whereas under Weiss's hypnosis treatment she became radiant, serene, and happy beyond his wildest hopes. This book will be of interest to anyone open to the concept of reincarnation and the thought that each of us may have lived multiple lives. Could it be that we never die but pass through different phases? Could it be that time is not as we see time, but rather in lessons learned. Could it be that guardian angels want to help us, especially to overcome the fear of death? Could it be that acts of violence and injustice will have to be repaid in kind in other lifetimes? Could it be that greed, manipulation and self-centeredness retard the progress of the soul? Could it be that our body is just a vehicle while our souls and spirit last for ever? <br />	2004-07-27
US	51116445	R1PX5WXQBICE54	0749913231	108435143	Napoleon Hill's Unlimited Success: 52 Steps to Personal and Financial Reward	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This book will help you to become a better person	There are many books which promise to help you achieve success in your life so how do you select the one which will be right for you? The fact that Napoleon Hill was born into poverty but achieved great success as an attorney and journalist, was an advisor to Franklin Roosevelt and a confidant of Andrew Carnegie indicates that he is qualified to advise us. Most of us lack motivation and fizzle out before reaching our goals so this book is made up of a reading for each week of the year to help generate new ideas and to stay focused on the achievement of your goals. Letters by the thousand tell that Hill's writings have been a powerful influence in bringing happiness, health, power and wealth to those who had a sincere, burning desire to achieve their objectives. The only limitation is your own mindset.<br />The reading for week #1, &quot;No One Drifts to Success&quot; points out that you have to discover your purpose in life and make plans to attain it. The person who acts with purpose and a plan attracts opportunities and overcomes the defeats and adversities that will inevitably stand in the way. If you have a strong belief in yourself, in what you are doing and what you want to do, no adversity is too difficult to overcome. Your future is what you make it. Many of us fall at this first hurdle because we have only a vague idea of what we want to do with our life and never get round to laying out the steps by which we intend to reach our goal.<br />&quot;Learn How to Live Your Own Life&quot;, the theme of week #2, points out that we have control over only one thing - our own mind. If you doubt this read Victor Frankl's &quot;Man's Search for Meaning&quot; where Frankl noticed that in the concentration camps of World War II it was the men who comforted others, who gave away their last piece of bread who survived the longest and who offered proof that everything can be taken but one thing - to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances. A genius is simplyone who has taken full possession of his own mind and has directed it towards objectives of his own choosing, without permitting outside influences to discourage or mislead him. We must refuse to accept defeat and refuse to be part of the vast majority who do little more than eke out a living and experience mostly misery, disappointment and failure. It is all in the mind.<br />Week 3 is on motivating yourself. The accumulation of wealth is just one measure of success. True success is marked by the satisfaction of knowing you have done a job and done it well - that you have achieved the goal you set for yourself. How can you motivate yourself to succeed? You need to develop a burning desire in order to reach the greater goal that you have set for yourself. This will allow you to develop an intensity of purpose which brushes aside obstacles that seemed insurmountable before. All things are possible to the person who thinks they are possible. People laughed at Henry Ford when he began work on his horseless buggy but he knew what he wanted and refuse to recognize any limitations. When he lacked certain skills he educated himself. John Wanamaker, who at the height of his success owned one of the largest mercantile establishments in the US, had a similar attitude towards education - he acquired education the same way a locomotive takes on water, scooping it up as he ran. Whatever the mind can conceive and believe, the mind of man can achieve. <br />Week 4 examines why some succeed while others fail. The successful person has the following qualities:<BR>- knows precisely what she desires <BR>- has a plan for getting it <BR>- believes in her ability to get it<BR>- devotes a major portion of her time to acquiring it<BR>- is a master sales person who has learned the art of influencing others to cooperate in a friendly spirit to carry out her plans and purposes <BR>- thinks before she speaks <BR>- weighs her words carefully<BR>- emphasizes her likes concerning people<BR>- minimizes her dislikes or does not mention them<BR>- expresses opinions only after having informed herself she can do so intelligently<BR>- budgets time, income and expenditure<BR>- takes a keen interest in people and cultivates a bond of friendship with them<BR>- is open-minded and tolerant on all subjects and towards all people<BR>- keeps abreast of the times, knows what is going on not only in her own business, profession or community but throughout the entire world<BR>- keeps her mind and outlook on life positive at all times<BR>- recognizes that the space she occupies in the world and the success she enjoys depend upon the quality and quantity of the service she promises<BR>- makes it a habit to render more service than she promises<BR>- has a keen respect for her creator and expresses it frequently through prayer and deeds of helpfulness to others<br />The failure is more or less the opposite. There is a big difference between the words and deeds of a success and a failure. But each person is where she is and what she is because of her own mental attitude towards herself and others.<br />This book is full of wisdom and if you pay attention to the contents you cannot fail to improve your life. Lasting success does not come from one big effort but is the result of hundreds of small right actions in many different areas over an extended period of time. Whether or not your goal is to become rich, having this book by your bed and reading it regularly will help you to become a better person and to live your life more fully	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R2ZXR7HWJ83QEI	1899171835	404067101	Ten Spiritual Lessons I Learned at the Mall	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Look for the hidden meaning in every event	Is the question of enlightenment important to you? Have you been reading books or attending seminars that could help you along the path to enlightenment? Have you entertained the thought that you are already enlightened? Is it possible that we can find enlightenment anywhere, at any time and even in the shopping mall? Is it possible that the last person you would think of as your teacher - a person serving coffee or mending shoes or cleaning the office - could be the one who brings you the message of enlightenment? Could it be that we don't have to go to expensive seminars but that we can find enlightenment in our everyday life? Could it be that everyday events occur that we just brush off but which if properly understood could help to remove the veil covering our eyes? This book is all about how we experience day-to-day events in our ordinary environment and that enlightenment is right there waiting for us if only we take the time to step back and be open to seeing events for what they really are. Let me touch on a few items in Lessons 1 and 2 so that you can determine for yourself whether this book might be of help to you.<br />Surprisingly, Twyman tells us that the mall can be a very spiritual place if you look at it in the right way. With the wrong attitude all you see is commercial crap and people walking around as if asleep. Change the intent and everything changes; it is like being at a retreat at a monastery. &quot;They're all angels in here teaching me about God, and truth, and enlightenment.&quot; &quot;When most people need a break or a spiritual retreat, they go to the mountains, or the desert, or to a monastery, to pray for a week. I've decided to spend a week at the mall and see what spiritual insights come to me.&quot;<br />Twyman was raised a Christian, once studied to be a priest and focussed on how he was different from everyone else. He had different beliefs from a Buddhist and focussed on differences to separate rather than bring together. Now hechooses to focus on things in which we are the same - peace for example. We all want to live lives of peace - whether we are Christian, Jew or Hindu. Focusing on that, the differences melt away. Being a Christian he focuses on what Jesus taught and not His personality. Jesus taught peace and compassion, just like Buddha or any other enlightened individual. At the shoe repair shop, the old Oriental man told him that he thinks of his work as being very much like life.  People bring their worn, dull shoes and expect him to bring them back to life like a healer. Shoes are vastly underrated; if they hurt your feet they are worthless, no matter how well shined. If they are comfortable you go through the day happy and with a smile. Feet determine the direction not only of your step but also of your mood. Shoes are a metaphor for life. We are all healers. But nothing can happen until we are ready. Till then life just passes us by. Attention and love go so far. This man who had repaired shoes all his life following the tradition of his father and grandfather, saved soles and souls.<br />Twyman started his journey in the mall by buying a wedding ring, representing commitment, stability and responsibility after a life time of uncompromised freedom and after all the uncertainties regarding his readiness for his new life. But he realized that he had always been ready not only for commitment in marriage but for the deeper realities of life. Marriage is a symbol of the commitment to the Divine. Being ready to give ourselves to each other is the same as giving ourselves to God. They cannot be separated. You can't realize that there is nothing to be afraid of till you are afraid. Only then are you ready to take the first steps away from fear and into the light. That is the only thing we are here to do. Realizing we are ready is just the first step. One victory leads to another till they all string together like pearls creating a whole necklace. Twyman had found his first pearl.<br/>People have a tendency to measure their worth, as well as the worth of others, according to what they do rather than who they are. Thus, a lawyer deserves more respect than a dishwasher, or so the world says. The emphasis can change depending upon the desired goal. Inside people are all the same because we all want the same things.... peace, love, family. On the outside we are very different, the way we look and the way we talk. But are we so really different? Maybe God doesn't think so either. Maybe God looks past the outer and sees only the inner. Sometimes people don't realize what they want, and this causes confusion. They think they want pain or conflict, but that is only because they're used to these things. Ultimately we are all the same, with the same desires and hopes. Look past the confusion and you see the truth.  <br />This book is not an easy read because it makes you think and reflect. He is telling us that we have the answers not only in everyday, common things but also within ourselves. The clues are there but they will pass us by unless we make the effort to find the deeper meaning. But isn't that what life is all about? How many times have I failed to learn from the simple and the obvious? For me this book was a warning - look for the hidden meaning in every event. Every moment of every day can be a lesson if we so wish.	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R2LUF43GTLHO3V	0892438584	587485082	Mother Teresa: In My Own Words	Books	5	47	51	N	N	words of great wisdom	This book is made up entirely of Mother Teresa's anecdotes and sayings. The author tells us little about this saintly woman except that Mother Teresa was very clear in her goals: to love and serve the poor and to see Jesus in everyone. She always left the ways and means to do this in God's hands. These are a few of the passages that inspired me.<br />&quot;Holiness does not consist in doing extraordinary things. It consists in accepting, with a smile, what Jesus sends us. It consists in accepting and following the will of God.&quot;<br />&quot;Holiness is not the luxury of a few. It is everyone's duty: yours and mine.&quot;<br />&quot;In order to be saints, you have to seriously want to be one. Saint Thomas Aquinas assures us that holiness &quot;is nothing else but a resolution made, the heroic act of a soul that surrenders to God.&quot; And he adds: &quot;Spontaneously we love God, we run towards him, we get close to him, we possess him.&quot; Our willingness is important because it changes us into the image of God and likens us to him! The decision to be holy is a very dear one. Renunciation, temptations, struggles, persecutions, and all kinds of sacrifices are what surround the soul that has opted for holiness.&quot;<br />&quot;Prayer makes your heart bigger, until it is capable of containing the gift of God himself.&quot;<br />&quot;Prayer does not demand that we interrupt our work, but that we continue working as if it were prayer.&quot;<br />&quot;To love with a pure heart, to love everybody, especially to love the poor, is a twenty-four-hour prayer.&quot;<br />&quot;My secret is a very simple one: I pray. To pray to Christ is to love him.&quot;<br />&quot;Prayer is not asking. Prayer is putting oneself in the hands of God, at his disposition, and listening to his voice in the depths of our hearts.&quot;<br />&quot;Every day at communion time, I communicate two of my feelings to Jesus. One is gratefulness, because he has helped me to persevere until today. Theother is a request: teach me to pray.&quot;<br />&quot;Never forget, my children, that the poor are our masters. That is why we should love them and serve them, with utter respect, and do what they bid us.&quot;<br />&quot;I ask you one thing: do not tire of giving, but do not give your leftovers. Give until it hurts, until you feel the pain.&quot;<br />&quot;Let us ask God, when it comes time to ask him for something, to help us to be generous.&quot;<br />&quot;The poor are great! The poor are wonderful! The poor are very generous! They give us much more than we give them.&quot;<br />&quot;Today it is very fashionable to talk about the poor. Unfortunately, it is not fashionable to talk with them.&quot; <br />&quot;Do we share with the poor, just like Jesus shared with us?&quot;<br />&quot;Whoever the poorest of the poor are, they are Christ for us - Christ under the guise of human suffering.&quot;<br />&quot;Our food, our dress: it all must be just like the poor. The poor are Christ himself.&quot;<br />&quot;The less we have, the more we give. Seems absurd, but it's the logic of love.&quot;<br />&quot;True love causes pain. Jesus, in order to give us the proof of his love, died on the cross. A mother, in order to give birth to her baby, has to suffer. If you really love one another, you will not be able to avoid making sacrifices.&quot;<br />&quot;Someone once told me that not even for a million dollars would they touch a leper. I responded: &quot;Neither would I. If it were a case of money, I would not even do it for two million. On the other hand, I do it gladly for love of God.&quot;<br />&quot;I will never tire of repeating this: what the poor need the most is not pity but love. They need to feel respect for their human dignity, which is neither less nor different from the dignity of any other human being.&quot;<br />My elderly parents-in-law often talk about the time when they met Mother Teresa. This book is probably the closest we will get to sitting at herfeet and listening to her words of wisdom.<br />Words of great wisdom	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R3SNVH1V087YTY	0385126395	640829881	Something Beautiful for God: Mother Teresa of Calcutta	Books	5	42	43	N	N	This book is truly beautiful	This book is expressly concerned with the work Mother Teresa and her Missionaries of Charity do together in Calcutta and elsewhere for the poorest of the poor, written by a man who worked for many years in the same city and who much admired her work. It is full of anecdotes about her life and work and provides a pretty good summary of the major events.  We know Mother Teresa for the great love that she poured out on the poor but at the very heart of all she did was her great love for God. &quot;Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me&quot; was one of her favorite sayings. Yet Muggeridge had never met anyone less sentimental, less scatty, more down-to-earth. Mother Teresa took a very practical view of money as her needs grew. When the Pope visited India he presented her with his white ceremonial motor car but she never so much as took a ride in it, organizing a raffle and raising enough money to start her leper colony.  <br />The author tells us that while teaching Mother Teresa received her call within a call - to work with the poorest of the poor rather than in her Loreto school convent with its pleasant garden, eager schoolgirls, congenial colleagues and rewarding work. When her release came, she stepped out with a few rupees in her pocket, made her way to the poorest, wretchedest part of the city, found a lodging there, gathered together a few abandoned children and began her ministry of love. To choose, as Mother Teresa did, to live in the slums of Calcutta, amidst all the dirt, disease and misery, signified a spirit so indomitable, a faith so intractable, a love so abounding, that the writer felt abashed. <br />Following the instructions of her Lord, Mother Teresa regarded every derelict left to die in the streets as Him; she heard every cry of abandoned children, even the tiny squeak of the discarded foetus, as the cry of the Bethlehem child; she recognized in every Leper's stumps the hands which once touched sightless eyes and made them see. What the poor needed,Mother Teresa was fond of saying, even more than food and clothing and shelter (though they need these, too, and desperately) is to be wanted. It is the outcast state their poverty imposes upon them that is the most agonizing. She had a place in her heart for them all. To her, they were all children of God, for whom Christ died.  The author never experienced so perfect a sense of human equality as with Mother Teresa among her poor. Her love for them made them equal, as brothers and sisters within a family are equal. This is the only equality there is on earth, and it cannot be embodied in laws, enforced by coercion, or promoted by protest and upheaval, deriving, as it does, from God's love, which, like the rain from heaven, falls on the just and the unjust, on the rich and poor, alike.  The nuns all eat the same food, wear the same clothes, and possess as little as their clients - the poorest of the poor. The nuns are not permitted to have a fan or any other mitigations of life in Bengal's sweltering heat. Even at prayers, the clamor and discordance of the street outside intrude, lest they should forget why they are there and where they belong.<br />Critics point out that statistically speaking Mother Teresa and the sisters achieved little but in Muggeridge's view Christianity is not a statistical view of life. Welfare is for a purpose while love is for a person. The one is about numbers while the other is about a person who is also God. The God Mother Teresa worships cannot see a sparrow fall to the ground without concern.<BR> <BR>I found Malcom Muggeridge's portrayal of Mother Teresa penetrating, very helpful and in a small volume you receive a good idea of the woman who may well be recognized as a saint during our lifetime. Sadly, some of our churches appeal to only a small congregation; for someone concerned with why their message is not getting over as effectively as they might wish, there could be no better way than studying this book and learning more about Mother Teresa's way of expressing love. <br />This book is truly something beautiful	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R28GQS159VWGB6	0933770286	64511543	Circle of Unity: Baha'i Approaches to Current Social Issues	Books	5	5	5	N	N	We need to change the ethical foundations of our lives	Over the last fifty years we have not made impressive progress in dealing with social problems such as world peace and disarmament, poverty reduction, racial injustice, human rights, equality of men and women and economic and social development generally. Is it that we have adopted the wrong approach? Might there be a better way? Anthony Lee believes so and by bringing together articles by ten authors he presents an alternative for us to consider. In the first paragraph of the introduction, the author makes his position clear &quot;Anyone familiar with the Bahai teachings will recognize that they embody a progressive social program. Indeed, it might be said that, at least in comparison to other religions, the Bahai faith is primarily oriented toward social reform. It is certainly the only world religion that defines a consciousness of the unity of mankind as its central theme and dedicates itself almost single-mindedly to the achievement of that goal. Of course, the Bahai teachings also offer guidance to and demand change from the individual believer, who is called to the highest standards of personal morality and spiritual development. But it is clearly stated in the Sacred Writings of the Faith that no amount of individual saintliness, by itself, will achieve the result of overturning the unjust and oppressive social conditions throughout the world today.&quot; <br />Unity of mankind is not just a re-awakening of the spirit of brotherhood and goodwill among men but implies an organic change in the structure of society - a change such as the world has not yet experienced. This change will be based on twelve principles that he explains in the book. It is these twelve principles that constitute the foundation of a more enlightened and progressive social program. <br />The first chapter &quot;A Worldwide Movement of Peace&quot; by Brad Pokorny tells us that the successes of the peace movement over the past 100 years have been few and far between while the huge numberof conflicts over the last couple of decades suggest a high degree of failure. Almost from the start, the Bahai Faith has been as much a movement for peace as a religion, expressed in educational efforts to promote a new kind of thinking necessary to establish a warless world, to forge a template for a new political order and to organize a network for peace. The author argues that the twelve principles each constitute an important element in building world peace. Our problems are so major that tinkering is no longer an option; we need to reinvent politics; we need to reinvent the world. <br />In somewhat similar vein, the other authors deal with the various social ills confronting us, usually coming to similar conclusions that we have tried the tinkering approach and have found it lacking. We need to change the ethical and moral foundations on which the world conducts business. <br />Einstein told us that we need a different way of thinking to get us out of the mess from the thinking that got us into the mess; we need a new paradigm, a new world view. These ideas constitute a new paradigm that should be put on the table alongside all the others. Then let us select some wise people to make the best choice and let us move ahead as quickly as possible along the chosen path so that we make better progress in the next fifty years than we did in the last fifty years.	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R1TQAAHG47GHDP	0687855470	814976913	In The Silence Of The Heart-Spck	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent book to meditate on	Early in August a friend called to tell me that the local branch of the Sisters of Mother Teresa needed eggs, cheese and meat for the feeding program for the poor that they took over during the summer months when staff at the nearby church took a well-earned summer break. That month I met many helpers, one of whom was a university student who told me that during their three years in the city her spiritually dead church had been spiritually rejuvenated by the presence of the Sisters. As I had several books on Mother Teresa I searched for clues as to why this group of five foreign nuns have such a magic touch.<br />Learning that Mother Teresa was not given much to talking and spoke only when necessary I was puzzled as to why she was such an inspiring leader that so many wish to carry on her work world wide. In fact, if we define an inspiring leader as a person who can inspire others to attain higher levels of service and dedication to their fellow human beings then surely Mother Teresa must be considered one of the most inspiring leaders during our life time. Perhaps even our business and church leaders have something to learn from Mother Teresa's management style.<br />This book is centered on different aspects of the worldwide work of Mother Teresa and thoughts on that work, illuminated by Gospel texts and enriched by passages and prayers written by those of all religious denominations who work with Mother Teresa. Christ to prove his love died on the cross; a mother in childbirth suffers. Real love means suffering and sacrifice. But if we are prepared to make that sacrifice the fruits of love are there to be gathered. Mother Teresa's secret is simple. She prays and through prayer becomes one in love with Christ. The poor ones in the world's slums are like the suffering Christ. In them God's Son lives and dies and through them God shows his face. If we pray we will believe; if we believe we will love; if we love we will serve. <br />I provide a small sampling of passages from the book so that you may determine whether this is the book you are looking for.<br />&quot;Today, more than ever, we need to pray for the light to perceive the word of God, for the love to accept the will of God, for the way to do the will of God&quot;<br />&quot;Today, once more, when Jesus comes amongst his own, his own don't know him! He comes in the rotten bodies of our poor: he comes even in the rich choked by their own riches. He comes in the loneliness of their hearts, and when there is no one to love them. Jesus comes to you and me and often, very, very, often, we pass him by.&quot;<br />&quot;Don't search for God in far lands - he is not there. He is close to you. He is with you. Just keep the lamp burning and you will always see him. Watch and pray. Keep kindling the lamp and you will see his love and you will see how sweet is the Lord you love.&quot;<br />&quot;God has identified himself with the hungry, the sick, the naked, the homeless; hunger not only for bread, but for love, for care, to be somebody to someone; nakedness, not of clothing only, nakedness of that compassion that very few people give to the unknown; homelessness, not only for a shelter made of stone but that homelessness that comes from having no one to call your own.&quot;    <br />&quot;The spiritual poverty of the western world is much greater than the physical poverty of our people. You in the West have millions of people who suffer such a terrible loneliness and emptiness. They feel unloved and unwanted.&quot;<br />WHO ARE THE POOR?<BR>The poor are the materially and the spiritually destitute<BR>The poor are the hungry and thirsty<BR>The poor are those who need clothing<BR>The poor are the homeless and the harborless<BR>The poor are the sick<BR>The poor are the physically and mentally handicapped<BR>The poor are the aged<BR>The poor are those imprisoned<BR>The poor are the lonely<BR>The poor are the ignorant and the doubtful<BR>The poor are the sorrowful<BR>The poor are the comfortless<BR>The poor are the helpless<BR>The poor are the persecuted<BR>The poor are those who suffer injustice<BR>The poor are the ill-mannered<BR>The poor are the bad-tempered<BR>The poor are the sinners and scoffers<BR>The poor are those who do us wrong<BR>The poor are the unwanted, the outcasts of society<BR>The poor are somehow or other - we ourselves<br />&quot;We need to find God and he cannot be found in noise and restlessness. See how nature, the trees, the flowers, the grass grow in perfect silence - see the stars, the moon and the sun, how they move in silence. Is not our mission to give God to the poor in the slums? Not a dead God but a living, loving God. The more we receive in silent prayer, the more we can give in our active life.&quot; <br />&quot;Our progress in holiness depends on God and on ourselves - on God's grace and on our will to be holy. We must have a real living determination to reach holiness. &quot;I will be a saint&quot; means I will despoil myself of all that is not God, I will strip my heart of all created things, I will live in poverty and detachment. I will renounce my will, my inclinations, my whims and fancies, and make myself a willing slave to the will of God.&quot;	2004-07-13
US	51116445	R138MAFOE8LKP6	0879611782	475742049	Adventures of Dawn-Breaker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The story of a couple's 6 years of travel teaching	One pleasant evening in November 1964, Russ came home and said &quot;Hey Gina, what do you think about getting a small sail boat and sailing around the world?&quot; Quite a wild dream given that Gina couldn't swim and neither had much sailing experience. &quot;Well, you'll never know if you can do something or not, until you try it.&quot; They put a deposit, sight unseen, on a 40 foot trimaran as it can sail in three feet of water - ideal for shallow tropical lagoons - and doesn't heel much. They found it also handled well in North Sea force eight winds that blew down a house. Wanting company, a second family arranged for a year's leave from work for the husband and correspondence studies for the son so they had a good vocal group that could sing its way into the hearts of people wherever they traveled. And so began an adventure to match that of his Portuguese ancestors Vasco da Gama and Ferdinand Magellan with a mate whose ancestors came from the land that produced Christopher Columbus, Marco Polo and Amerigo Vespucci. But this group discovered something more than a new country or trade route or undiscovered lands - they discovered the joy of bringing a message of love, unity, hope and inspiration to their fellow man and discovered the thrill of being members of a great, unified, unparalleled wave of travel-teachers visiting their fellow Baha'is. <br />As their plans finalized, their hearts drew them to the Pacific Islands where they would serve Baha'u'llah wherever it was best. This was not the 'normal' couple embarking on a romantic journey; Russ was at the peak of his career with royalties from music written for film and stage and in demand as a composer, arranger and conductor while Gina was a professional singer and free lance writer. They had to keep in touch with those back home and be prepared to fly to assignments as they arose during their magical six-year adventure. As active Baha'is they had many responsibilities and as their departure day approached pressure increased to keep them at home. It became increasingly difficult to be sure that they were not making a mistake as every Baha'i delights in the thought of pioneering and travel teaching but has to balance this against service at home. They sought advice and found the perfect answer in a letter from the World Center of the Baha'i Faith calling on all self-supporting believers to arise independently to visit all the continents and countries mentioned in 'Tablets of the Divine Plan.' Pioneers were settling in remote places and for the first time in Baha'i history believers were summoned to visit fellow-Baha'is everywhere. It became easy to do what their hearts had already decided by joining a tidal wave of teaching.<br />This is Russ and Gina's adventures of sailing to places where no Baha'is had ever sailed before; of their resounding send off and of the love they met along the way. This is the story of love from friends who donated their flag with background stripes of brown, yellow, white, and red to symbolize the colors of man; the white nine-pointed star representing the unity of humanity; the circle of blue symbolizing the sea, sky and earth and citizenship of the world; and the love of the painter of &quot;Dawn-Breaker&quot; as a reminder of the early martyrs of the Cause who gave their lives to break the night of hate and ignorance of man's thinking with the love and knowledge of God's new day. It is the story of the 1950s when they were investigating Baha'i and came home so spiritually stimulated that they lay awake till dawn talking. It is the story of their first day when they rescued a frantic elderly couple drifting out to sea only to be caught in Hurricane Alma that broke the boom, stopped the engine, put out the electrical system and forced them to bale. It is the story of their sheepish return to Hollywood while the boat was repaired; it is the story of their soul searching as to whether the hurricane was a sign not to go or a test of their resolve and commitment. It is the story of the adventures of highly committed people to support fellow Baha'is around the world bring the message of God's love. It is the story of Russ and Gina's hopes, disappointments, joys, and difficulties and the decision that changed their lives.	2004-06-30
US	51116445	R34VH1KBPDJ11F	007010347X	630463510	Encounters With the Future: A Forecast of Life in the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Forecasting the future is very important	It is important to predict the future because times are changing so fast that we can no longer prosper by using old responses to future events; we need better information about tomorrow. Although this 1983 book is dated and many of the forecasts are no longer helpful, it is still useful as the techniques and approaches have not changed. \\"The trends that help to shape national events are always influenced by a country's vital signs, which are just as important and just as easy to check as the blood pressure, temperature and pulse of a person. The vital signs to look for in a country are the signs that indicate political, economic and social stability. These signs include a country's birth rate, how it takes care of injustice, its treatment of dissidents, its relations with the press, the frequency with which it changes commercial regulations and goes out on strike, where it sends its elite to be educated, what it pays in salaries to its military officers. The most stable country in the world is Sweden, where the uppermost tenth, make two and one half times what the lowest tenth earn. Using income difference as a guideline, the unstable countries in the world are Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Argentina, where the upper tenth earn more than 40 times what the lower tenth makes. Iran fell in part because the earnings in the upper tenth rose to where they were 38 times what the lowest tenth earned.\\" Other factors contributing to Iran's fall were the high unemployment rate of young males who were the backbone of the revolution that broke the Shah.<br />Cetron is a professional forecaster whose work is based on the analysis of trends and indicators, synthesis of data and the extensive use of computers; he tells us how Forecasting International predicted the fall of the Shah of Iran, unrest and instability in Poland, the coup d'etat in Turkey, political changes in India, the warlike position of Iraq, and the 1973 Arab oil embargo. This book is about forecasting a crisis beforeit becomes a crisis and anticipating trends and developments in fields as diverse as medicine and religion. The value of the book is not the success of the forecasting but in drawing attention to problem areas; where important trends are well established and irreversible, the success rate of forecasting improves. <br />The chapter 'Religions of the Future' points out that Southern Baptists and Mormons are the fastest growing while Presbyterians, Lutherans and Methodists are losing members. The least liberal, the least tolerant religion in the world is now the fastest growing religion in the world. There are 450 million Moslems worldwide and in America there are twice as many Moslems as there are Presbyterians. Until recently, Americans believed in family ties, traditional religion, sexual restraint, the work ethic, free enterprise and the natural superiority of the American way. Almost all of these old values have been challenged first in literature, then in behavior and school curricular. \\"This process of change has seriously affected young people. They do not get clear guidance when they look to the adult world for fundamental values. Young people are particularly receptive to the appeal of new nonestablishment groups which offer a ready-made sense of community and an idealistic world view providing clear rules of daily conduct and purpose in life.\\"<br />While this book may no longer be worth the investment, up-to-date books on forecasting the future and futuring are definitely worth reading if we are to anticipate how the future will unfold.	2004-06-30
US	51116445	RNSQQKET1D4AW	0787955698	531462487	Breakthrough Thinking for Nonprofit Organizations: Creative Strategies for Extraordinary Results	Books	5	7	11	N	N	For everyone connected with a noprofit	Good performance is no longer enough for nonprofits; nonprofits must set and achieve breakthrough goals. Managers and board members need to think in new and creative ways about how they define and meet the challenges they face and the strategies and techniques required to achieve extraordinary performance in fundraising, service delivery and overall results. Almost all nonprofits are affected to some extent by nine change drivers. There are five internal change drivers: organizations need a new mission or vision or they will run out of steam; the speed of business requires more decisions made faster; rising costs require new ways to deliver service from a distance; high profile service failure may require drastic measures such as clearing out top management to win back public confidence; new technology may make a nonprofit redundant or may offer opportunities to improve ways of doing business. There are also four external drivers of change: changes in public perception may result in being dropped from people's consciousness or require 24/7 availability; rapid public awareness of disasters quickly changes priorities; competition for funds has increased as distinctions between nonprofits, the public sector and the private sector has blurred; technology change can make old solutions redundant. Nonprofits that fail to answer two fundamental questions: where do we want to go? and how do we get there? may find themselves wandering in a fog, not knowing how they got into their current situation and wondering what is the right way to go. The decision to go for breakthrough is a strategic one involving risk and asking questions such as 'what is the worst thing that can happen if breakthrough goes wrong?' and 'how likely is it that the worst thing will happen?' and 'what can we do to minimize the risk of the worst thing happening?' and 'should we have a Plan B to cope with problems?'  After appraising the risks and challenges and adopting a strategy you still need to decide on the approach required to encourage the people and innovation needed and the leadership required. Even then you need to ask 'to what extent do the improvements and changes made match up to what is needed?'<br />Once an organization has decided to transform its performance to have an impact on the need/performance gap or to achieve its potential, plotting the position on a life cycle chart can be very helpful. Organizations decide to change at various points in their life cycle and for different reasons. The challenge with the most common change point - just past the peak - is that the organization has to break out of its comfort zones and one way is to think about a dramatically improved level of performance. To drive that change a vision of the new performance level has to be agreed together with positive and negative drivers to provide pleasure and avoid pain. Two words have proved exceptionally useful in setting new goals - kaizen and horshin - because they describe not only the nature of the goals but the change process. Kaizen is slow, incremental change that leads, over time to significant improvement in performance. After the second world war Japan applied kaizen to a whole range of activities, including their car industry by setting a long-term world class performance goal and breaking it down into small, achievable chunks. Horshin is about sudden, exponential, discontinuous and radical change that leads to dramatically improved performance in a relatively short period of time. This process resulted in Sony's Walkman becoming one of the most widely used personal electronic devices on the planet. It was used by the National Trust in raising $7.5 in 200 days to save Mt. Snowdon in Wales for public use. In practice most organizations need a mixture of both kaizen and horshin as some areas of work need the stability and methodical progress of kaizen while others need the drive, transformation and vision implicit in horshin. An organization could have ten goalsas part of a three-year strategic plan of which six might be kaizen and four horshin. Balance is important as you cannot transform everything overnight and you need to focus and emphasize a small number of key areas to transform quickly.<br />Engaging a horshin goal can be very stimulating such as Kennedy's &quot;This nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to earth&quot; or Fords &quot; My vision is to build a motor car for the great multitude. It will be at so low a price that no man making a good salary will be unable to own one&quot;. Many nonprofits build on Martin Luther King's &quot;I have a dream&quot; to express mission as an overarching, simple, concrete horshin goal while others are more specific such as &quot;To become a world-class center for research of childhood diseases and to radically reduce their incidence.&quot; To achieve breakthrough, language is important as it helps people to shift into a different mindset, distinguish breakthrough goals from ordinary goals and to think creatively about 'how to' as well as 'what'.<br />The remaining eight chapters of 'Breakthrough Thinking for Nonprofit Organizations' deal with unlocking potential, releasing creativity, creating a smart organization, mapping the possibilities, balancing creativity and innovation, challenging mind sets, driving change and working in a breakthrough organization. It is difficult to imagine than anyone connected with a nonprofit could not profit from this book.	2004-06-27
US	51116445	R34KNTYROCDISA	0875845614	468602079	Global Strategies: Insights from the World's Leading Thinkers (The Harvard Business Review Book Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For those who want to be a world player in 15 years time	Globalization is forcing companies to rethink strategies, redesign organizations, seek new partnerships and open both minds and boundaries. Managers try to match competitive advantages of their global rivals by changes such as moving manufacturing offshore but few go beyond mere imitation and are trapped in an endless game of catch up. Regaining competitiveness may require rethinking competitor analysis through strategic intent. In 1970 Komatsu, Honda and Canon were small compared to their US rivals Caterpillar, American Motors and Xerox but by beginning with ambitions out of all proportion to their resources and capabilities sustained over a 10 to 20 year quest for global leadership, these Japanese firms became world players. The American firms had misinterpreted the strategic intent of the Japanese. Not possessing long-term, competitor-focused goals themselves, Western companies did not ascribe such intentions to their rivals. They calculated the threat posed by potential competitors in terms of their existing resources rather than their resourcefulness. As they were oblivious to the strategic intent and intangible advantages of their rivals, American and European businesses were caught off guard.<br />Strategic intent is more than ambition; it includes focusing on winning, motivating staff, encouraging individual and team contribution, sustaining enthusiasm and using intent to guide resource allocation. Strategic intent implies a sizable stretch for an organization. Current capabilities and resources will not suffice. This forces the organization to be more inventive and make the most of limited resources. Whereas the traditional view of strategy focuses on the degree of fit between existing resources and current opportunities, strategic intent creates an extreme misfit between resources and ambitions. Top management is specific about the end but is less prescriptive about the means and challenges the organization to close the gap by systematically building new advantages. Successful companies have four things in common: vision, leadership, communication, and execution. Four approaches to competitive advantage are evident in the global expansion of Japanese companies: building layers of advantage such as starting with black and white TV sets and then moving to color; searching for loose bricks by building a base of attack just outside the market territory that industry leaders currently occupy; changing the terms of engagement under the premise that a successful competitor is wedded to a recipe for success; and competing through collaboration under the maxim &quot;my enemy's enemy is my friend&quot;<br />The chapter on how global companies win out points out that competing globally sometimes demands unconventional approaches such as investment in projects with zero or even negative ROI and careful attention to searching questions such as 'What kind of resources - over a long period - will be required to establish the leading position?' There are case studies including Unilever, L.M.Ericsson (developing and exploiting a technological niche) and the three crucial steps that were decisive in Honda's achievement, while pointing out that successful approaches will probably not work forever because competitors will try to push industrial trends away from the strengths of industry leaders.<br />Chapters include interviews with Wisse Dekker of Philips, Whirlpool CEO David Whitman, Vitro's Ernesto Martens, reflections by Gurcharan Das, and a section on developing a global strategy. Success in today's international climate - a far cry from only a decade ago - demands highly specialized yet closely linked groups of global business managers, country or regional managers, and worldwide functional managers. Companies are just beginning to learn what nations have always known: in a complex, uncertain world filled with dangerous opponents, it is best not to go it alone. Great powers operating across broad theaters of engagement have traditionally made common cause with others whose interests ran parallel with their own.<br />Global competition rules of the game are changing constantly and a company has to accept an endless game of catch-up or adopt strategic intent. This book is invaluable for those who want to be a world player in 15 years time.	2004-06-26
US	51116445	R1H5NRK4KY764I	0853980217	192750926	The Mission of Baha'u'llah	Books	5	4	4	N	N	For those seeking a purer spirituality	Strange that an age of unparalleled human achievement that discovered so much of the truth should have left the spiritual realm unexplored and should have missed the most important truth of all. It seemed as if the world was too immersed in materialism and pleasure and too content with trivial pursuits to accept a universal spiritual revelation. No prophet has ever come into the world with greater proofs of his identity, nor in its first century of activity has any older Faith achieved so much or spread so far across the globe. Count Gobineau, a French diplomat, wrote in 1865 of the Bab's saintliness, of the loftiness of His ideals, of His charm, of His eloquence, and the astonishing power of His words over both friend and foe. Great as the Bab was, He was preparing the way for another who was even greater, Baha'u'llah, who as a divine physician diagnosed the malady of the age and prescribed its remedy. His teachings were universal and conferred illumination on all mankind. None could resist His wisdom and even His enemies admitted His greatness. <br />Baha'u'llah took the most vigorous steps to bring the Truth to the West. He wrote many letters from prison in Turkey declaring that the human race was one, and calling on leaders to seek peace, to be just and considerate to their subjects, to effect an international union for the reduction of armaments and to provide for the joint resistance to aggressors. Baha'u'llah warned the rulers that if they did not treat the poor as a trust from God; if they did not observe the strictest justice; if they did not reconcile their differences; if they did not reduce their armaments, then \\"Divine chastisement shall assail you from every direction.\\" Abdu'l-Baha, the son of the Prophet and the appointed Exemplar of His Faith, spoke much of the spiritual and social goal set by God for this enlightened age of \\"The Most Great Peace.\\" Along whatever road thoughtful men look out, they see before them some guiding truths which Baha'u'llahgave long ago and which men rejected but which are garnered in 'Twelve Points': unfettered search for truth; the oneness of mankind; religion a cause of love and harmony; religion hand in hand with science; universal peace; an international language; education for all; equal opportunities for both sexes; justice for all; work for all; abolition of extremes of poverty and wealth; the Holy Spirit to be the prime motive power in life. The real remedy for the world's ills is the union of all its peoples in one universal cause and one common faith set forth in seven phrases: unity in the political realm; unity of thought in world undertakings; unity of freedom; unity of religion; unity of nations; unity of races; unity of language. <br />One of the 16 chapters 'Nabil's History of the Bab' is a summary of the early days of the Bahai Revelation, including the remarkable execution. \\"The sentence was carried out in the public square of the city, on July 9th, 1850. A curious circumstance delayed for a few minutes the actual execution. The Bab, with a follower who was to die with Him, was suspended by a rope to a wall, and the firing squad of 750 rifles delivered a volley at close range. The heavy smoke obscured completely the wall and those who hung upon it. When it cleared away, the two condemned men were found to have escaped injury. The rope which bound them had been cut, and the Bab's companion was seen to be standing on the ground unhurt. The Bab had disappeared and was discovered in His prison, whither He had returned to finish a conversation which had been interrupted when his jailers came to lead Him out to execution. The members of the firing party, terror-stricken at such a prodigy, refused to lift their rifles again against the person of the Prophet, and the authorities were obliged to summon another regiment to consummate their crime.\\" In addition \\"Tahirih, that outstanding star of Persian womanhood, the one woman-apostle of the Bab, of whom Professor Browne saidthat if the Babi cause had done nothing else, to have produced such a woman as her in such a time and such a country would have made it illustrious - Tahirih, beautiful, exquisite, learned, eloquent, showed a courage and enterprise in spite of the disability of her sex which made her conspicuous even among the Babis; when her time of martyrdom drew near she met it with rapture and endured a painful death with dignity and calm.\\" Nabil records how mothers would encourage their children to suffer and to die rather than repudiate their faith; and how the women endured with steadfastness the cruelties heaped upon them till they found release from the tormentors in a martyr's death. This account of the birth of a new world religion and the Heroic Age of the Faith inspires, stimulates and fortifies.<br />Another chapter is a study of the Christlike character of Abdu'l-Baha whose single aim was servitude to God and whose dominant element was spirituality. He believed that knowledge of God is the purpose of human existence and the summit of human attainment. Truth is the word of God; art is the worship of God; life is nearness to God; death is remoteness from God. Another chapter is about Queen Marie of Rumania, the first member of royalty to accept the New Revelation, who wrote, \\"I have found all my yearnings for real religion satisfied.\\" <br />If you are seeking the light, if religion is not as real to you as you would like, if you seek a purer spirituality, you may wish to ponder on the contents of this book.	2004-06-25
US	51116445	R9NYEEYBV9FRU	0878573658	656967864	Our Next Frontier: A Personal Guide for Tomorrow's Lifestyle	Books	5	5	5	N	N	For those who question the quality of supermarket food	The first frontier for America was the vast, seemingly limitless plains and the second was seemingly limitless cheap energy. The next frontier will be the age of energy conservation and renewable resources and a life style where people collect the sun to heat their homes, cycle to work to save energy and keep fit, use as little water as possible, produce their own vegetables and thereby enhance the quality of their lives and environment. Organic gardening composes a major part of the book because it promotes the idea of self-reliance and encourages people to examine their lifestyle and patterns of consumption; it leads to the idea of homesteading where personal productivity becomes part of a family's lifestyle by bringing the production of food back into the hands of the family that will eat it. Cheap energy and food provide little incentive to plan a frugal way of life and seek the joy that comes from simplicity, smallness, quiet and meditation; garden homesteading is one of the few tangible ways of experiencing the thrill and satisfaction of building your own secure reserves and seeking relief from habits of waste and consumption.<br />Organic thinking began with Sir Albert Howard in the 1920s with farming systems based entirely on renewable resources through recycling of animal manures and left over plant materials by composting at high temperatures through bacterial action. Howard perceived danger in the advocacy of synthetic substitutes that ignored the organic portion of the plant and predicted declining fertility, hunger, increased disease and pollution. Rodale's father seeing Howard's predictions coming true during the Dust Bowl era and grasping the wisdom of his methods created a research farm using only manure and wasted organic matter as fertilizer without using any poisonous pesticides and found he had fine crops, healthy animals, productive gardens and bigger harvests. As these results gained importance with the energy crisis, environmental contamination by agricultural chemicals, destruction of the ozone layer, methods adopted by the food processing industry, inflation and the complex and an expensive food distribution system the author established a second 305 acre farm devoted to finding how to do more with less and improving the efficiency of organic methods. <br />New gardeners frequently make the mistake of planting what they want to eat, rather than what grows healthily, inviting disease because climate, soil or moisture conditions are not right for every plant. Old gardeners have learned what nature will allow them to do successfully and have learned to use ecological sense and adopt a live-and-let-live approach to pests and disease, preferring to build up soil fertility so it will be healthy and productive, giving plants the health to combat natural enemies. Earthworms and other organisms killed by agricultural chemicals produce a natural plant growth stimulant; nitrogen-producing bacteria boost the capacity of the land by building the humus content of the soil. There will always be some disease but by listening to nature's signals and by using that information to build strength naturally, plants will be healthy. <br />A garden that is too clean can be the enemy of helpful insects. Whenever possible keep a sod cover where helpful insects can find refuge as there is a surprising insect-controlling power in weeds; it is important that we stop thinking of insects as bad. Lawns can be turned into vegetable gardens by making holes and planting corn, tomatoes, squash or similar large-growing vegetables; mow the grass between the rows, mulch with lawn clippings, leaves, hay or even saw dust. Mulching keeps moisture in the soil and prevents weed growth. Drip irrigation puts water where it does most good, succession planting allows you to grow several different plants in the same area, crop rotation reduces weed problems, and careful selection of insect-resistant plant types reduces insect problems. <br />Weatherrecords reveal a picture of stable and favorable weather conditions over the last 50 years providing the best conditions for food production that we could have hoped for. There is a dangerous complacency with new agricultural technology that is ill equipped to cope with the weather outside the expected norm. During the 1960s the world had a 105-day food reserve, but now it is very much lower and crop failures could have a devastating effect. We should multiply the number of people able to produce at least some of their own food in their own gardens. <br />We are what we eat. The average American is eating food that is increasingly doctored with chemicals and of decreasing nutritional value. The best diet should focus on the relatively small number of foods that are excellent in all respects and avoid those which are harmful or lack solid value. We should develop a habit of thinking of foods occupying a sliding scale of quality and concentrate on a number of good foods. Many people are overweight caused through poor diet. Unconventional sources such as wild foods are can improve diet cheaply while sprouted soybeans rival meat in nutritive value, mature within five days, can be planted at any time, require neither soil nor sunshine, are as rich as tomatoes in vitamin C, are free of waste and can be cooked with little fuel. Health is the product of many complex factors working together and this book tells us how to take our health into our own hands. Future gains in life expectancy will come from changes in our habits and life styles. 'Our Next Frontier' is actually about living a healthy, rewarding and long life. We should not view health as the absence of disease as health comes from the way we live and not from doctors and hospitals. <br />Written more than 20 years ago, this book is not dated in any way - in fact time has highlighted Rodale's fears and proved the wisdom of his approach. If you have questioned the habit of eating food products from the supermarket or if you have questioned your life style, this is an excellent book to reflect on.	2004-06-13
US	51116445	R2CVWE3Y4IMLIY	0376038640	848197431	Waterwise Gardening	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent guide if you face water shortages	Water thrifty gardens make sense because most places experience droughts and sometimes there are restrictions on use of tap water when most needed for the garden. Despite water limitations, the pictures in this book show that Xeriscaping can still be very beautiful as a successful waterwise garden uses limited water not because it skimps on plantings but because it makes wise use of plants. It also creatively employs everything that does not grow such as decks, patios, walkways, fences, wood, stone, gravel, bark, wood chips and bricks laid in sand. <br />There are several components to creating a successful garden - water collection and distribution, soil composition and drought resistant plants; - and this book deals with them all in a very easy-to-read manner. Lawns use four times as much water as any other landscaping feature and is the first item to be considered. A small area of drought-tolerant lawn is desirable as a play area for the children but the remainder can be converted to other plants, especially unthirsty ground covers with mulch on slopes to prevent erosion. Place beds of thirsty annuals or vegetables near turf areas where they will benefit from the extra water applied. <br />It is best to bunch together plants of similar water requirements as there are efficient irrigation techniques for tress, shrubs, ground covers, lawns, vines, bush crops, and for flowers and vegetables planted in rows or in masses. A timer is invaluable, not only to make sure that plants are watered when you are away but also to make sure that each plan grouping receives the optimum amount. <br />The Chapter &quot;If you are not ready to start over&quot; tells how an old landscape can be easily renovated in stages to make it less thirsty. &quot;Working with soil&quot; provides valuable information on how the composition of the soil influences water absorption and retention and governs the amount of water to be applied and frequency of application. Adding organic matter - the decaying remains of once-living plants and animals - improves the soil's ability to conserve water. It also improves aeration and water penetration, as soil air is vital to good root growth and to the health of soil microorganisms. <br />Wise watering ensures that plants always receive enough water to thrive while eliminating wastage. Plants in sandy soil need less water at each watering but more frequent application as explained in the chapter &quot;Watering guidelines and methods.&quot; Ways to make the most of available water are: water early in the day, water deeply and thoroughly, eliminate run off, use low-volume watering devices, change water schedules seasonally, automate your watering, eliminate weeds, use mulch to retard evaporation, and use soil polymers - gel-like particles that absorb and hold large quantities of water. Mulch - a layer of loose textured organic material spread over the soil to slow evaporation - is especially valuable as it suppresses weed growth and improves the soil while decomposing. Plastic and rock are used instead of organic matter; they conserve water but do not improve the soil. The book closes with two chapters on plants for a water-thrifty landscape. <br />'Waterwise Gardening' should be on the bookshelf of anyone who wants to garden under today's conditions of water restrictions.	2004-06-12
US	51116445	R1B2T1ZIYE72FK	0773610065	625423315	The prisoner and the kings,	Books	5	4	5	N	N	For those who want to rebuild moral and ethical values	Kaiser William I in Berlin, Sultan 'Abdu'l-Aziz in Constantinople, Alexander II Nicolaevitch, Czar of Russia and Nasiri'd-Din Shah, King of Persia all received letters from a prisoner urging them to change their ways. As these letters went unheeded; these ruling monarchs and their thrones were swept away in a titanic upheaval that engulfed 20 kingdoms in half a century. The link binding them was a prisoner in a Turkish fortress on the coast of Palestine - a person none would ever consider a challenge to the rulers of the world. Foretelling the collapse of each dynasty with frightening precision, the prisoner tried to awaken the rulers to their social and spiritual responsibilities; to unite in a world-wide effort for social justice and peace; and to protect the down trodden and under privileged.<br />In 1844 a man called the Bab started a spiritual revolution in Persia which was crushed by clergy and courtiers fearful of loss of privilege. He was executed in 1850 with his followers tortured and massacred. One supporter was not killed because of his position in the Persian court but he was a marked man and his oppressors found an excuse to throw him into a dungeon. It was in that pestilential prison full of rats and disease that the mission of Baha'u'llah began, a mission that was to fulfill the promises of all religions. In 1890 the Prisoner told Professor Edward Granville Browne of Cambridge University that he sought only the good of the world and the happiness of all nations; that all men should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection between people should be strengthened; that the diversity of religion should cease and differences of race annulled. Browne wrote &quot;The face of Him on Whom I gazed I can never forget, though I cannot describe it ... no need to ask in Whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before One Who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain.&quot; <br />Napoleon III, the most powerful monarch of the day, had written a treatise on the elimination of poverty and appeared to be in tune with Baha'u'llah's teachings but when he turned away from social and humanitarian ideals he received a letter from Baha'u'llah which forecast &quot;Thy Empire shall pass from thy hands, as a punishment for that which thou has wrought.&quot; Kaiser William I was warned of the same fate if he did not devote himself to the service of unity and justice but he agitated differences between neighbors, increased armaments and dreamed of war and bloodshed. Alexander II failed to take leadership in raising moral and ethical standards and the House of Romanov fell after 300 years. That the Empire of the Hapsburgs, an empire as old as Europe itself, could disintegrate and fall overnight because the ruler rejected the spiritual message of God was unthinkable. But that is what happened. There was only one monarch, Queen Maria of Rumania, who became a devoted follower writing: &quot;If ever the name of Baha'u'llah comes to your attention, do not put His writings from you. Let their glorious, peace-bringing, love-creating words and lessons sink into your heart&quot; and &quot;It is Christ's message taken up anew, in the same words almost, but adapted to the years that lie between year one and today.&quot;<br />Baha'u'llah's writings kept secretaries busy day and night transcribing the Revelation that grew to 100 volumes dealing with the problems facing man and his society. He emphasized that the struggle was not between himself and those in authority but between those who loved the things of God and those who loved the things of men; between physical and moral forces; between the material and spiritual; between inequity and justice. All the tragedies engulfing the world are because mankind has turned away from God for materialistic concerns. Baha'u'llah called upon the leaders of the world to help Him in rescuing mankind from the threatening disaster; He challenged leaders, ministers and priests to examine the Bahai teachings with an open mind. <br />Baha'u'llah died in 1892 having laid the foundations of a world-wide community which would provide the pattern for a new world order in human relations, having appointed 'Abdu'l Baha as the interpreter of His teachings. Suggestions that the roots of the disorder of society are spiritual were treated with impatience and ridicule but this message is not only for rulers but for each individual; not only for then but also for now. The real purpose of life is the development of a praiseworthy character; the building of moral and ethical virtues is the true basis of life both for men and nations. The world today has lost most virtues such as kindness, generosity, compassion, tenderness, love, justice, fairness, gentleness, and consideration, preferring materialism. Something must reverse the current and that is why God sent his most recent messenger. Every Bahai is commanded to conduct himself in such a manner that he will stand out because of his moral qualities. In large measure it is young people who have laid down their lives in the fight against corruption, hypocrisy and injustice. Over 20,000 followers were killed in Persia because the creed awoke a rare and beautiful spirit of self-sacrifice. Nevertheless Bahais are firmly obedient and loyal to the governments of the nations in which they reside while not involving themselves in politics or diplomatic pursuits. Until we have a new world conscience we cannot have a new world society and it seems that youth understands that mankind's urgent need is for moral and spiritual regeneration.<br />If you believe that we have become over materialistic and need to rebuild moral and ethical values if mankind is to progress, this is an excellent book to read.	2004-06-08
US	51116445	REVI92WEUTGQ	0855328851	139476672	Gardening Without Water: Creating Beautiful Gardens Using Only Rainwater	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Read this book if you do not have sufficient water	Rain is not the only source of water available to the gardener. A village in an arid region of Chile with no regular rainfall initiated a fog trap to collect water, producing seven cubic meters of water a day even during periods of drought - enough to make a big difference in the food grown. Grey water from baths, sinks and washing machines using ecological detergents can and should be recycled and used together with rainwater harvested from roofs and other surfaces. At a time when we can no longer rely on tap water to water our gardens during dry spells, the prudent are using every available suitable source of water.<br />Increasing water supply is the first step in a chain allowing us to continue to have a beautiful garden. There are a multitude of new technologies now available which reduce waste and deliver water where it is needed. Mulching not only reduces water loss but is the basis of a plant's survival in dry conditions. Then we can select plants with a lower water requirement and plant them in such a way that both fruit and vegetables will mature with little or no water.<br />This is not a technical gardening book on how to grow, maintain and design gardens. It tells you how to collect and store water, how it can be used sparingly and to great effect, and how to create and maintain a garden with beautiful plants and flowers.<br />If you are not aware of the many ways in which you can compensate for the loss of tap water for your garden, this is an excellent book to read.	2004-06-08
US	51116445	R1MG66VZNVDQY6	157851181X	536663013	Harvard Business Review on Breakthrough Thinking	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Read this book if your sales or profits are in decline	Creativity and innovation are the keys to competitive advantage in the knowledge economy and this book is a collection of eight HBR articles on how to organize for innovation. Many companies unintentionally crush employee's intrinsic motivation in pursuit of productivity, efficiency and control, but creativity requires expertise, motivation and the ability to think flexibly and imaginatively. Key factors are challenge, freedom, the design of the work group, encouragement, and organizational support but with careful planning it is possible to create an organization in which business imperatives are attended to and creativity flourishes. As innovation takes place through creative abrasion, care must be taken to prevent players with different worldviews and thinking styles having personal disputes. Managers often prefer like-thinking staff, neglecting a dynamic set of individuals whose counter culture thinking patterns are considered disruptive. A mix of right- and left-brain individuals is required to develop new approaches to the business.<br />There are many lessons to be learned from a film unit where talented people band together for a short time; success depends on getting the right personnel, enabling them to work well together, motivating them to peak performance, leading them to create on schedule, and handling the stresses that arise. The director's job is managing the different phases in a film's production - preproduction script development etc, the production phase of shooting, camera, lighting, sound crews etc., and post production of picture and sound editing etc., all under intense budget and time pressures. Many managers in business and industry follow the film directors' approach intuitively but it is rarer for a manager to relate to different people in different ways or to the same people in different ways at different times.<br />CoolBurst is a fictitious case study of a soft drinks company that had ruled the market but where revenues and profits had stagnated. The company's most creative employee had joined the largest competitor while many new companies were joining the competitive fray with each one coming from a different angle. The one remaining creative person, the marketing director, got a lot done but his work style of going to the movies during work hours did not fit the company culture and adversely affected others. He had warned everyone that past success was due to being in the right place at the right time and that the bubble would burst; CoolBurst had to create a new vision of the brand and innovate or evaporate. CoolBurst had to make itself a more welcoming, nurturing place for creative individuals, encourage employees to take more risks and change the culture of command, compartmentalization and control. Leadership that envisions, empowers and energizes is required. Five experts put forward their views of the best way out of the dilemma. <br />Peter Drucker points out that opportunities for innovation can be found in unexpected occurrences, incongruities, process needs, changes in an industry or market, demographics, changes in perception, and new knowledge. These seven sources overlap and the potential for innovation may lie in more than one area at a time. Innovation requires talent, ingenuity, knowledge, diligence, persistence, commitment and demands that managers look beyond established practices. Demographics and an education explosion clearly identified a forthcoming shortage of blue-collar workers but only the Japanese acted on it and stole a 10-year lead in robotics. Despite an unprecedented improvement in Americans' health, perceptions were different, creating a huge market for health care products and exercise equipment. Purposeful, systematic innovation is work rather than genius, beginning with the analysis of the source of new opportunities followed by field work to look, ask and listen, using both left and right sides of the brain.<br />The past two decades have seen a dramatic acceleration in the pace of change in the market place requiring companies to abandon old hierarchical models and managers to adapt to unstable and unpredictable markets in which it may be difficult to define the problem let alone engineer a solution. The analytical approach is giving way to the interpretive approach in companies like Levi Strauss and Chiron that have stayed at the top of an industry where the customer does not know what he wants or needs. What is fashionable emerges during conversations between designers, buyers, customers, manufacturers, and fashion writers. There is no beginning and no end; what is fashionable has no final answer and the answer keeps changing. Levi divides the market into age segments and assigns a designer to each segment. Each designer is encouraged to become immersed in that segment's culture by living the life of its members, shopping at their stores, eating in their restaurants, dancing in their clubs, listening to their radio stations, and reading their magazines - all in an effort to spot new trends. Interpretive management constantly questions the boundaries of the company's core competency and demands a whole new way of thinking about the work of the business executive.<br />Managers of less successful companies follow conventional strategic logic while managers of high growth companies follow what Kim and Mauborgne of INSEAD call the Logic of Value Innovation. Instead of battling competitors over shrinking cinema attendance in Belgium, Bert Claeys created Kinepolis in 1998 and made the competition irrelevant by offering a greatly improved experience. Neither an ordinary cinema nor a multiplex, Kinepolis is the world's first megaplex which won 50% of the Brussels market in its first year and expanded the market by about 40%. Today many Belgians refer not to a night at the movies but to an evening at Kinepolis. The five dimensions of Value Innovation Logic say that:<BR>- an industry's conditions can be shaped and are not given<BR>- competition is not the benchmark<BR>- focus on what customers value<BR>- what would we do if starting anew?<BR>- think in terms of the total solution sought by the customer<BR> <BR>Any manager who sees sales or profits stabilizing or going into decline would be wise to read this book.	2004-06-07
US	51116445	RZ5FMI0QZ3B7T	0853980306	552108584	The Flame: Story of Lua (Talisman Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An inspiring book about one of the early Baha'is	Born in upstate NY, Lua grew up on a farm to a mother who asked questions in church such as &quot; Were there really three persons in the Trinity?&quot; and &quot;Why are there so many religions?&quot; and &quot; Is it right for some to be terribly rich and others terribly poor and to be neighbors?&quot; and &quot;Why can't the world have peace?&quot; and &quot; Are all foreigners really dangerous?&quot; and &quot; Why shouldn't everyone love the whole world and not only his own native land?&quot; Having a good outer farm life but an inner life of unrest and dissatisfaction, Lua sought answers to these kinds of questions by going from church to church but it was not until she read a newspaper article about the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893 and learned about a paper at the World's Parliament of Religion read by a clergyman, Dr. Henry H. Jessup of Beirut, that she found someone who could offer satisfactory answers. This paper said in part that &quot;just outside the Fortress of 'Akka, on the Syrian coast, there died a few months since a famous Persian sage ... named Baha'u'llah - the 'Glory of God' ...He gave utterance to sentiments so noble, so Christlike, that we repeat them as our closing words: 'That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bond of affection and unity between the sons of men should be strengthened; that diversity of religions should cease and differences of race be annulled. What harm is there in this? Yet so it shall be. These fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and 'the Most Great Peace' shall come ...Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind.&quot;<br />Although Baha'u'llah had written over one hundred volumes, none of these was available yet in America so Lua memorized passages such as &quot; There is but one God and one religion. Moses, Christ, Muhammad, Baha'u'llah, all the great Prophets and messengers of God have taught the one same truth. We are all the leaves of one tree and the drops of one ocean. Though the Speakers are many, the Word is One&quot; and &quot; Prejudice of all kinds must be forever abandoned, and all men live as brothers. All men, whatever their country, creed or color, are the children of one Father, God&quot; and &quot;The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice.&quot; To her joy and delight, she discovered that there were followers of Baha'u'llah in America. They were called Baha'is meaning 'follower of Baha'u'llah' with their World Center in the Holy Land on the spot that Isaiah had prophesied would see 'the glory of God.' Gradually all her questions were answered, her doubts removed and convinced that Christ had returned she visited the son of Baha'u'llah, Abdu'l-Baha, the fountain-head of this spiritual truth. When Lua and her friends met Abdu'l-Baha for the first time, their world became another world. All that had happened to them in the past was of no consequence. This was the moment of their rebirth. <br />During the days which those first pilgrims spent in the prison-city of 'Akka they discovered that &quot;In this vicinity, Baha'u'llah spent nearly a quarter of a century as a prisoner and an Exile. So foul was the atmosphere, so unsanitary and disease-ridden, that a proverb declared: 'If a bird flies over 'Akka, it dies.'&quot; Abdu'l-Baha told the pilgrims not to be sad because he was a prisoner. &quot;Anyone can be happy in the state of comfort, ease, success, health, pleasure and joy, but if one can be happy and contented in the time of trouble, hardship and prevailing disease, that is the proof of nobility. Grieve not because of my imprisonment and calamity, for this prison is my beautiful garden, my mansioned paradise and my throne of dominion among mankind.&quot; Men and women from every race, religion and nation questioned him about social, spiritual or moral concerns and returned home inspired, renewed and enlightened. With Abdu'l-Baha the rigid castes of India, the racial prejudice of Jew, Christian and Muhammadan melted away. Fear was turned to faith, weakness into strength, sorrow into hope. People said of this man who did good to those who injured him that he was as simple as his soul was great; he claimed nothing for himself - neither comfort, honor or repose - and all his strength was given to the succor of those who suffer in spirit or in body. &quot;We can all serve in the cause of God, no matter what our occupation is. No occupation can prevent the soul coming to God. Peter was a fisherman, yet he accomplished most wonderful things; but the heart must be turned always toward God, no matter what the work is; this is the important thing; and then the power of God will work in us. We are like a piece of iron in the midst of the fire which becomes heated to such a degree that it partakes of the nature of the fire and gives out the same effect to all it touches - so is the soul that is always turned toward God, and filled with the spirit.&quot;<br />Abdu'l-Baha told the pilgrims that great mercy and blessings are promised to the people of America but on one condition: &quot;that their hearts are filled with the fire of love, that they live in perfect kindness and harmony like one soul in different bodies. If they fail in this condition the great blessings will be deferred.&quot; In due course Lua was to become the 'mother-teacher of the West', her delight would lie in her service to her newfound family, mankind and Abdu'l-Baha would give her the Persian title of Liva - the Banner. This is an inspiring book about one of the early Baha'is and provides a good background to the Baha'i Faith.	2004-05-19
US	51116445	R1CIWEP7GQQ1HF	0930242572	274235591	Futuring: The Exploration of the Future	Books	5	20	25	N	N	A very important book	Thinking ahead is the great need of our times as the rapid pace of technological and social change affects work, home, education, health, amusements, environment and even religion. Futuring helps to understand trends, identify opportunities, and avoid dangers; it is a powerful way for individuals and organizations to create a better future. We cannot predict the future in detail but long-term shifts in population, land use, technology and governmental systems provide vital clues. We can all benefit by doing what futurists do, namely:<BR>- preparing for what we will face in the future<BR>- anticipating our possible future needs, problems and opportunities <BR>- identifying possible situations that might be encountered<BR>- expecting the unexpected<BR>- thinking long-term as well as short-term<BR>- dreaming productively<BR>- using even poor information if that is all that is available<BR>- learning from our successful predecessors<BR>Futurists have identified many trends but for simplicity Cornish limits discussion to six super trends shaping our future: <BR>- technological progress<BR>- economic growth<BR>- improving health and longevity<BR>- increasing mobility<BR>- environmental decline<BR>- increasing deculturation<BR>Assuming no big surprises these super trends allow us to create a picture of what the world might look like under a 'continuation scenario'. This picture of the future is not a forecast but a way of thinking how we might prevent certain things happening and how we might create a better future. <br />We tend to feel powerless and that we have little control over our future. Chance or even trivial events can have enormous consequences and the possibility that a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil could cause a tornado in Texas high lights the chaotic world we live in. The butterfly effect also highlights the enormous effect even our simple actions can make to the future. Once we recognize our power over the future, we have the responsibility to exercise that power as well as we can. We must seek to understand the possibilities of the future and how to work toward influencing events in a way that will be beneficial. Myriad potential futures lie before us; we can only imagine them and many lie beyond our wildest imagining. Reconstructing humanity's response to his environment and the astonishing number of ways in which different groups of people express themselves in language, music, art, objects of worship, food and housing would have been beyond our most creative brainstorming sessions. Yet each cultural pattern represents a series of choices that a given people has made during its social and cultural evolution. Each people has carved out a different destiny for itself. Likewise, we have enormous freedom to shape our lives. We must abandon the notion that we must have absolutely certain knowledge before we can act; we must base our actions on probabilities and highly uncertain knowledge. We need to train ourselves to think realistically and creatively about the future by simplifying complexities and imagining a much wider range of possibilities than we are in the habit of doing.<br />The goal of futuring is not to predict the future but to improve it. We must try to prevent the crises of tomorrow so we can avoid disasters. We must mobilize people ahead of time through a democratic process whereby groups of people create their own vision of the future. Edward Lindaman saw how Kennedy's awe-inspiring vision of putting a man on the moon mobilized people to achieve a miracle and he organized citizen groups to create visions of desirable futures for their communities. Clement Bezold outlines five stages in building a vision:<BR>- identification of problems<BR>- identification of past successes<BR>- identification of desires for the future<BR>- identification of measurable goals<BR>- identification of resources to achieve those goals<BR>The vision must be widely shared because people must really believe they can shape their future, commit themselves to doing it, and be prepared to do the hard work involved.<br />DEGEST - an acronym for demography, economy, government, environment, society/culture, and technology - is a tool for understanding the world around us and bringing us to the threshold of the future at which point futurists use scenarios or conjecture about what might happen in the future. &quot;Scenarios give us an excellent way to think in an orderly manner about future possibilities, assess their probability and likelihood, and evaluate strategies that we might employ to achieve a chosen goal. But imagining scenarios is a challenge to our creativity: We need to come up with lots of ideas about what might happen in the future, since we cannot expect the future to be simply a replay of the past.&quot; Scenarios are particularly useful in dealing with wild cards - events that we do not expect to happen but having enormous consequences if they did and the main purpose of thinking about wild cards is to chip away at the rigidities of ideas about the future and open up a new level of creative thinking. 9/11 and the leaps from horse to car, from pen to typewriter and from typewriter to computer were wild card events and over the course of a century there might be several thousand wild cards so we have to expect them to impact our lives in times of rapid change. New ways of thinking are required to overcome our unwillingness to think seriously about future events thought to be unlikely. Putting a man on the moon demonstrated human ability to shape the future. Just as Thomas Edison trained himself to produce one minor invention every ten days and one major invention every six months, so we can train ourselves to prepare for the future and this book is an excellent place to start.	2004-05-08
US	51116445	R113FV2J3BO29D	1931847096	274814500	Release the Sun	Books	5	16	20	N	N	An important book to read	At barely thirty, he seemed so young to die. He appeared helpless and gentle, yet confident; a look of contentment on his face as he gazed calmly into the hostile barrels of 750 cocked rifles in the public square in Tabriz, Persia on July 9, 1850. In 1844 there had been great excitement over the return of the Messiah, the promised Christ and on May 23, &quot;The Bab proclaimed that He was the One foretold in all the holy Books of the past. He said that he had come to usher in a new era, a fresh springtime in the hearts of men. His name, the Bab, meant the door or gate. His teaching, he said, was to open the door or the gate to a new age of unity in which men would recognize one God and worship in one religion - the same religion which all of God's prophets had taught from the beginning of time. It would be an age in which all men would live as brothers.&quot;<br />18 people accepted the Bab's teachings. One of these was Tahirih, the Pure, who saw Him in a vision, became a staunch believer, a courageous teacher and finally a martyr. Another, Mullah Sadiq, was so advanced in age that he knew he could not survive the thousand lashes administered for embracing the Faith but although he found the first seven strokes severely painful, he was filled with joy. Suffering, pain and persecution are only unbearable to those who have no purpose in life and no hope for the future. For the love of God pain becomes a pleasure and suffering a means of being closer to God. The Bab traveled to Mecca, but none would listen to his message because they were indifferent, antagonistic or afraid. The governor sent a mounted guard to bring the Bab in chains to Shiraz, believing this would dampen people's enthusiasm for the cause. Meeting the Bab en route, the commander was surprised when the Bab said, &quot;Deliver me into the hands of your master&quot;. The commander ordered his escort to permit the Bab to ride ahead as though they were a guard of honor and the people of Shiraz marveled that the escort commanded to bring the Bab in chains, had returned treating him as royalty.<br />The Bab's gentle manners, refined courtesy and politeness made the governor furious, especially when the Bab reminded him that his duty was to determine the truth about affairs in his region and not make unjust decisions without first investigating personally. Abdul Karim, a man with such a thirst for knowledge that he was elevated to the station of teacher while still a student, was just one of many great figures who visited the Bab and stories of conversions infuriated the governor who was unable to stop the Bab's rising popularity. Meanwhile the disciples spread throughout the country proclaiming the regenerating power of the newborn Revelation. As the authorities became alarmed at the enthusiasm with which the people accepted His message, church and state unleashed a wave of hate and the sands of Persia were stained red. The governor arranged public debates at which the Bab spoke with simplicity, gentleness, charm and extraordinary eloquence. In addition he exposed vices and corruption and pointed out the infidelity of the leaders to their own beliefs; he defeated all with their own Holy Book in His hand. Even orthodox Muhammadans agreed that his eloquence was of an incomparable kind such that no one could imagine without being an eyewitness. <br />The King and Prime Minister sent Vahid, the most learned, eloquent and influential of all the king's people, with instructions: &quot;Go at once to Shiraz. Interview the Bab. Find out if these tales of wonder we hear are true. Then report to us personally and in all detail what you discover.&quot; At the end of the first interview Vahid reported: &quot;Quietly the Bab began to speak. He gave brief but persuasive answers to each of my questions. The conciseness and clarity of his replies excited my admiration and wonder. My feeling of personal superiority vanished. I was embarrassed by my own presumptuousness and pride. I feltso abased that I hurriedly asked permission to retire. I told him: 'If it please God, I shall in my next interview submit the rest of my questions and conclude my inquiry.'&quot; At the second interview Vahid was impressed by the Bab's ability to answer questions not yet asked and at the final interview Vahid decided to ask for a commentary on a very difficult piece of Holy Scripture. Noting that Vahid was powerless to speak, the Bab asked: &quot;Were I to reveal to you the commentary on the Surih of Kawther, would you acknowledge that My words are born of the Spirit of God? Would you recognize that My utterance can in no wise be associated with sorcery or magic?&quot; and with bewildering rapidity and in words of matchless beauty and profound meaning he wrote 2000 verses of commentary. Vahid wrote a full report to the king but did not return to the capital, preferring to travel to all parts of Persia summoning the people with great fervor to accept the new Messenger of God.<br />Such were the first few months at the beginning of the true six-year story of the establishment of the Bahai Faith that is recognized by the United Nations as an official religion. For anyone who would like to learn more why there are now more than five million Bahais and a presence in every country in the world, there is no better place to start than by reading this book.	2004-03-26
US	51116445	RU32UVO5DR2S2	185168073X	430968959	Olya's Story	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A very moving story	Earlier in 1978 a religious march in the city of Qum protested a newspaper article critical of the exiled Islamic leader, Ayatu'llah Khomeini, at which the police opened fire, seventeen seminary students were killed, and the government was denounced as anti-Islamic. As religious fundamentalism swept the country, Iran's largest religious minority, the Baha'is, became vulnerable; their houses were looted, livestock stolen, shops attacked and many were taken to mosques to be forced to accept Islam by those who considered the Baha'i faith to be a heretical sect. Although Baha'is were obedient to the government and their religion does not allow them to take part in politics, they were considered a threat; burning and looting spread and Olya's house was filled with refugees. There had been phases of intense persecutions previous to this, in the 1950s, the 1920s and in the last century when 20,000 early believers were massacred.<br />When the Pahlavis left Iran, the streets exploded in jubilation and two weeks later Ayatu'llah Khomeini proclaimed the birth of a new state where all were to be free: &quot;Interrogating people about their beliefs is forbidden. No one can be persecuted or punished purely for holding certain beliefs.&quot; Official recognition and freedom to practice their religion, educate their children in their faith and be represented in parliament was extended to Christians, Jews, and Zoroastrians but not to Baha'is, although recognized as a separate religion by the United Nations. The belief that a new messenger of God had come to herald the long-awaited regeneration of humanity was considered a wicked heresy just as Christ's proclamation had been 2,000 years earlier. When interviewed for US television the head of Public Prosecution in the Revolutionary Court of Iran said: &quot;We have never killed anyone because of their religion. The Baha'is we have executed were either leaders of this political sect or they were spies for Israel. We are going to continue our efforts to eliminate all their leaders, and so far we have been very successful. Then we will put pressure on the other Baha'is, and no doubt they will all come back to Islam in time.&quot;<br />The pogrom began in earnest; the House of the Bab, one of the most holy places for Baha'is, was destroyed; Baha'i houses were demolished and families forced to live together; many were killed or executed, often after prolonged torture; Baha'is were banned from jobs in teaching and in government; children were suspended from schools and universities; eleven prominent Baha'is were kidnapped by the Revolutionary Guards, disappearing without trace. On April 30, 1981 three Baha'is were executed. A Muslim whose car broke down close by, secretly witnessed the scene and recounted what he saw: &quot;They were only a few steps away from death when the guards tried for the last time to get them to recant their faith. They were told that if they denied being Baha'is they would be allowed to go back to their families at once. Their reaction was incredible. Mr. Mihdizadih, who seemed perfectly composed, said: 'Now that I'm captive and you know I don't have a weapon with which to defend myself, please uncover my eyes and tell me who is the person among you chosen to give me the drink from the water of eternal life.' One of the guards uncovered his eyes and introduced himself as the soldier who was about to kill him. Mr. Mihdizadih held the guard's hand and kissed it, then with indescribable excitement he looked at the sky and said: 'I praise God that I can, in the last moments of my life, be obedient and carry out what He has asked me to do - to kiss the hand of my killer.'&quot; <br />Increasingly concerned about opposition from political factions such as the mujahidin, communists and tribal populations, it was pronounced illegal for more than two families to gather in one house under threat of prison and confiscation of property. The Baha'is complied but Olya was asked to be unofficial messenger to keep everyone informed, a dangerous job with guards everywhere. Olya's children were at school in the UK and her boss offered her advice: &quot;Now that you have finally managed to get permission to leave Iran after all these difficulties, Olya, you'd better stay in England. The government has plans for you Baha'is. You know how they have fired your friends from their jobs under false charges! The Public Prosecutor's office has called me a few times to ask about you, but I don't give them straight answers. I have told them I am very happy with your work in the office, and that seems to pacify them a bit. But one of these days I'm sure they'll manage to dismiss you. I'll be glad to issue a few months' leave of absence for you, on top of your paid annual vacation, while we wait to see what happens under this terrible government. Maybe things will change!&quot; Olga returned after the planned two weeks because something strange had happened to the Baha'i community. Under persecution, life had become more meaningful; they felt they had something priceless that brought true happiness. They enjoyed their material loss and envied those who gave their lives. They looked upon their children as the hope for the world; adults had to play their part in being a good example and in preparing their children.<br />On May 18, 1982 Olya's employer was forced to fire her, the personnel manager saying at the farewell gathering: &quot;'Friends, why are you crying?' he began. 'We are proud to have a colleague who is leaving her job because of her principles. She has not lost anything - she has gained something. Olya Roohizadegan is leaving this office with her head held high.'&quot; That was the day Olya's Story began; a story that lead to her dramatic escape from the hangman's noose and escape to Pakistan and the West.	2004-03-21
US	51116445	R95TRKI328EIZ	0896722546	12588952	Watermelons, Walnuts, and the Wisdom of Allah: And Other Tales of the Hoca	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great deal of wisdom	When the author was living in Turkey, she heard many tales about Nasreddin Hoca who was a religious teacher, Moslem priest and judge who lived several hundred years ago. He may be a mythical figure predating Emperor Tamerlane but he is so well loved that that his fame and stories have spread to many countries, where he is used to make a point because there is a tale to fit almost every situation. Hoca stories are very much alive today and Bruce Lansdale, Director of the American Farm School in Thessaloniki Greece from 1955 to 1990 used a Hoca story in every talk he gave. In fact, he was so famous for his Hoca stories that if by chance he had not told one, the audience insisted on a tale before he was allowed to sit down.<br />Hoca stories are not only full of wisdom but they are a way of breaking down barriers so if you are doing business in the Middle East you must anticipate hearing some in the course of your visit. In fact you would be wise to travel well armed with a collection of Hoca stories so you can tell one back to your client - especially if you have enough at your finger tips so that you have one appropriate to the point you want to get across. If you are giving a public speech, Hoca stories are a good alternative to a joke which the audience may have already heard. But the lovely thing about a Hoca story is that you can hear it time and again and it seems to get better. If you are reading to your child at bed time, a Hoca story is not only fun but later you can discuss the inner meaning and gain a double benefit. If you are an enterprising story teller, you can even make up your own Hoca stories. If you are teaching a course on the Middle East, you should definitely include Hoca stories; in fact if you started with a Hoca story your late arrivals will probably drop dramatically.<br />While this collection of 18 of the most popular stories has been prepared with children in mind, the message is there for people of all ages to appreciate alongside the beautiful illustrations which provide an insight into a very different culture from that of the West. At the end of some of the stories we are given a sentence such as: &quot;This tale is so well known in Turkey that anyone whose innocent action brings down a punishment entirely out of scale with the offense is said to have 'frightened the potters' mules.'&quot;<br />This book is well worth a read or giving as a present.	2004-03-06
US	51116445	R1ADV4E2TE1YML	0875844162	571072005	Competing for the Future	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An important book to read	Few companies that began the 1980s as industry leaders ended the decade with their leadership in tact and undiminished. Many household name companies saw their success eroded or destroyed by tides of technological, demographic and regulatory change and order-of-magnitude productivity gains made by nontraditional competitors. &quot;Do you really have a global strategy&quot;, the first HBR article by Hamel and Prahalad, developed the theme that small companies could prevail against larger, richer companies by inventing new ways of doing more with less. Differences in resource effectiveness could not be explained by efficiency, labor or capital, but by amazingly ambitious goals that stretched beyond typical strategic plans, raising the question how such incredible goals could get past the credibility test and be made tangible and real to employees? Frequently the small challengers rewrote the rules of engagement; flexibility and speed were built atop supplier-management advantage, built atop quality advantages. Companies made commitments to particular skill areas a decade in advance of specific end-product markets. How did executives select which capabilities to build for the future? Some managers were foresightful, others imagined and gave birth to entirely new products and services. These managers created new competitive space while laggard companies protected the past rather than creating the future. Existing theory throws little light on what it takes to fundamentally reshape an industry and the gap provoked this book in which the goal is to enlarge the concept of the industry and not just the organization. Being incrementally better is not enough because a company that cannot imagine the future won't be around to enjoy it. This book is about strategy and how to think by drawing on the experience of companies that have overcome resource disadvantages to build positions of global leadership. It is about companies that escaped the curse of success to rebuild industryleadership a second or third time. It has been written for companies that believe that the best way to win is to rewrite the rules; it is for those who are not afraid to challenge orthodoxy, for those who prefer to build rather than cut, for those committed to making a difference and staking out the future first.<br />We need to ask ourselves eight questions:<BR>- does senior management have a clear and broadly shared understanding of how the industry may be different in ten years time? Is management's view of the future clearly reflected in short-term priorities?<BR>- How influential is my company in setting the new rules of competition within the industry? Is it regularly defining new ways of doing business and setting new standards of customer satisfaction?<BR>- Is senior management fully alert to the dangers posed by new, unconventional rivals? Are potential threats to the current business model widely understood? Do senior executives possess a keen sense of urgency about the need to reinvent the current business model?<BR>- Is my company pursuing growth and new business development with as much passion as it is pursuing operational efficiency and downsizing? Do we have a clear view of where the next revenue growth will come from?<BR>- What percentage of our improvement efforts focuses on creating advantages new to the industry, and what percentage focuses on merely catching up to our competitors? Are competitors as eager to benchmark us, as we are to benchmark them?<BR>- What is driving our improvement and transformation agenda - our own view of future opportunities or the actions of our competitors? Is our transformation agenda mostly offensive or defensive?<BR>- Am I more of a maintenance engineer keeping today's business humming along or an architect imagining tomorrow's businesses? Do I devote more energy to prolonging the past than I do to creating the future?<BR>- What is the balance between hope and anxiety in my company; between confidence in our ability to find and exploit opportunities for growth and new business development and concern about our ability to maintain competitiveness in our traditional businesses; between a sense of opportunity and a sense of vulnerability, both corporate and personal?<br />These are not rhetorical questions. We are told to get a pencil and rate our company because these questions go unanswered in many cases. Such questions challenge the assumption that top management is in control or even that their knowledge and experience may be irrelevant or wrong-headed for the future. The urgent drives out the important and the future goes largely unexplored; the capacity to act is considered to be more important than the capacity to imagine. A capacity to invent new industries and to reinvent old ones is a prerequisite for getting to the future first and a precondition for staying out in front. Gaining an understanding of how to accomplish this most difficult task is the central mission of this book.<br />What must we do to ensure that the industry evolves in a way that is maximally advantageous for us? What skills and capabilities must we begin building now if we are to occupy the industry high ground in the future? How should we organize for opportunities that may not fit neatly within the boundaries of current business units and divisions? The answers are to be found in this book. Armed with this information, a company can create a pro-active agenda for organizational transformation and can control its own destiny by controlling the destiny of its own industry. No company can escape the need to reskill its people, reshape its product portfolio, redesign its processes, and redirect its resources. There is not one future but hundreds; there can be as many prizes as runners; imagination is the only limiting factor. In no way does the success of one preordain the failure of another. What distinguishes leaders from laggards, and greatness form mediocrity is the ability to imagine what couldbe. If your senior management did not do well on the eight questions, then your company may not be around a decade from now. There are few who would not profit from reading this book.	2004-03-05
US	51116445	R1HMKEZ736Z7DN	0198279973	795927141	Our Global Neighborhood: The Report of the Commission on Global Governance	Books	5	0	1	N	N	If you are a leader you must read this book	The Commission on Global Governance was established in the belief that international developments had created a unique opportunity for strengthening global cooperation to meet the challenge of securing peace, achieving sustainable development, and universalizing democracy. A preliminary study led to the &quot;Stockholm Initiative on Global Security and Governance&quot; and the appointment of a distinguished 28-member commission serving in a private capacity independent of government or any organization. &quot;The Commission's basic aim is to contribute to the improvement of global governance. It will analyze the main forces of global change, examine the major issues facing the world community, assess the adequacy of global institutional arrangements and suggest how they should be reformed or strengthened.&quot; The members believed that it should be possible to move the world to a higher level of cooperation than has ever been attempted, taking advantage of the growing recognition of global interdependence. Commission members divided themselves into four working groups on global values, global security, global development, and global governance, being guided by a single desire &quot;to develop a common vision of the way forward for the world in making the transition from the cold war and in managing humanity's journey into the 21st century. We believe this report offers such a vision. The strongest message we can convey is that humanity can agree on a better way to manage its affairs and give hope to present and future generations.&quot; <br />Today change is very rapid and highly visible. There is a need for balance, caution and vision. Our future will depend on the extent to which people and leaders around the world develop a vision of a better world and the strategies, the institutions and the will to achieve it. Leadership is urgently needed; leadership of a different character with a commitment to public service; leadership informed by an understanding of the most important transformation of recent decades, leadership grounded in a new value system based on a commitment to care for others embodied in the metaphor of being a good neighbor. The Commission was convinced that whatever ideas it advanced in institutional and other change, must be grounded in values that speak to the tasks facing the contemporary world, including acceptance of a global ethic, and courageous leadership at all levels of society infused with that ethic. Without a global ethic, the frictions and tensions of living in the global neighborhood will multiply; without leadership, even the best designed institution and strategies will fail. Barbara Ward summed it up in these words: &quot;The most important change that people can make is to change their way of looking at the world. We can change studies, jobs, neighborhoods, even countries and continents and still remain much as we always were. But change our fundamental angle of vision and everything changes - our priorities, our values, our judgements, our pursuits. Again and again, in the history of religion, this total upheaval in the imagination has marked the beginning of a new life ... a turning of the heart, a 'metanoia,' by which men see with new eyes and understand with new minds and turn their energies to new ways of living.&quot; Institutions respond better to these issues than governments, for whom the short-term political expediency takes precedence. <br />Establishing an ethical dimension to global governance requires commitment to a set of core values that can unite people of all cultural, political, religious and philosophical backgrounds; core values such as respect for life, liberty, justice, equity, mutual respect, caring, and integrity. The Commission urges the international community to unite in support of a global ethic of common rights and shared responsibilities, which encompasses the rights of all people to:<BR>- a secure life<BR>- equitable treatment<BR>- an opportunity to earn afair living and provide for their own welfare<BR>- preservation of differences through peaceful means<BR>- participation in governance at all levels<BR>- free and fair petition for redress of gross injustices<BR>- equal access to information<BR>- equal access to the global commons<br />At the same time, all people share a responsibility to:<BR>- contribute to the common good<BR>- consider the impact of their actions on the security and welfare of others<BR>- promote equity, including gender equity<BR>- protect the interests of future generations by pursuing sustainable development and safeguarding the global commons<BR>- preserve humanity's cultural and intellectual heritage<BR>- be active participants in governance; and <BR>- work to eliminate corruption <br />Mobilizing the collective power of people to shape the future to make life in the 21st century more democratic, more secure and more sustainable is the foremost challenge of our generation. The world needs a new vision that can galvanize people everywhere and leadership is the most critical factor. &quot;In the final chapter of this report, we draw attention to what has been a pre-eminent strand in thinking of the Commission: the world's need for enlightened leadership that can inspire people to acknowledge their responsibilities to each other, and to future generations. It has to be leadership that upholds the values we need to live together as neighbors, and to preserve the neighborhood for those who follow us.&quot;<br />The chapters of this book are:<BR>- A New World: The Concept of Global Governance<BR>- Values for the Global neighborhood <BR>- Promoting Security<BR>- Managing Economic Interdependence: Challenges of Global Economic Governance<BR>- Reforming the United Nations<BR>- Strengthening the Rule of Law Worldwide<BR>- A Call to Action: Summary of Commission Proposals; The Next Steps; The Need for Leadership<br />The starting point for building a better world is to have a vision of that better world and this is what this book provides. But we need ethical leaders at all levels and in all kinds of institutions with the will to implement that vision. If you are a leader or wish to become a leader, you will find this book invaluable.	2004-03-05
US	51116445	R1HCH1VBOD8KLG	0393322793	516411591	State of the World 2002 (Special World Summit Edition)  (State of the World)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An invaluable guide	During the 1980s and 1990s, in an initiative led by World Neighbors in Guatemala, there were encouraging signs as farmers adopted low-cost improvements such as hedges to control erosion, crop rotation with legumes to add nitrogen to the soil, and covering the ground with vegetation year round to reduce soil and water loss, with the result that harvests jumped without the use of chemical fertilizer or pesticides as the capacity of farmers to innovate, experiment, and become the protagonists of their own development increased and they explored better ways to farm. Incomes improved, emigration to the cities declined, nutrition, health, literacy, soil quality, resistance to drought, water quality, and resistance to extreme weather conditions all improved; tree planting increased and more families were involved in local decision making. But this was in stark contrast to the type of farming that prevails in much of the world which delivers a great deal of food but wears down ecosystems while people go hungry and rural communities wither. Changing from destructive systems to regenerative or multifunctional or agroecological systems was part of the vision and goals of the 1992 Rio Earth Summit but implementation fell far short. Modern farming has increased production and lowered commodity prices but at the price of environmental and social dysfunction. When food production is the sole yardstick, it is difficult to comprehend the price paid by ignoring other criteria such chemicals in drinking water, soil erosion, food poisoning, subsidies, and mad cow disease. People pay three times for their food - at the checkout counter, for subsidies, and to clean up polluting farm practices. Often producing more food did not reduce hunger. Much of the growth in food production has been built on irrigation but at the price of pressure on water resources as described by Sandra Postel in &quot;Pillar of Sand: Can the Irrigation Miracle Last?&quot; The strongest evidence that our food system is dysfunctional is the fact that farmers, as a group, are the poorest people on the planet, hunger is concentrated in rural areas, worsened by poor access to safe water and sanitation. As most of the money in the food business flows to the cities and factories, a mass exodus from rural areas has resulted. In 1950 American farmers captured 50 cents on the food dollar but in 1997 it was 7 cents with most of the money going to processing, marketing, and agricultural input suppliers - a pattern mirrored around the world. How can so many remain hungry when food production soared and was ahead of population growth?<br />This edition of State of the World, issued prior to the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in September 2002was prepared to help define the agenda by focusing on seven key areas which should be the priorities for delegates  - agriculture, energy, climate change, chemicals, international tourism, population growth, resource based conflicts and global governance. In addition, this volume evaluates what has been achieved since the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio when world leaders agreed to a plan to create a sustainable global economy - one that met human needs while protecting and restoring the natural environment. Unanimous recommendations of the report &quot;Our Common Future&quot; established sustainable development as the central organizing principle for societies around the world. Although these recommendations were confirmed at Rio and despite two landmark global treaties on climate change and biological diversity, the world continued with business as usual. Agenda 21, a 40-chapter plan for achieving sustainable development, lacked clear implementation plans and binding legal requirements. Two questions need to be addressed - why has so little progress been made? And what must be done to ensure that the next decade is one of sustainable development and environmental progress? &quot;The answer to the first question is both simple andcomplex: governments and individuals around the world are still treating issues such as population growth, the loss of biological diversity, and the build up of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere as if they were the equivalent to local air or water pollution - problems that could be solved simply by ordering the addition of control devices. Humanity has not yet shown the ability to deal with fundamental global and long-term changes in the biosphere, particularly when they require a systemic response - the creation of fundamentally different technologies, the development of new business models, and the embracing of new life styles and values.&quot;<br />The eight chapters in this book are:<BR>- The Challenge for Johannesburg: Creating a More Secure World; <BR>- Moving the Climate Change Agenda Forward; <BR>- Farming in the Public Interest; <BR>- Reducing our Toxic Burden; <BR>- Redirecting International Tourism; <BR>- Rethinking Population, Improving Lives; <BR>- Breaking the Link Between Resources and Repression; and <BR>- Reshaping Global Governance. <br />The 1980s was a decade of unprecedented economic growth during which over $10 trillion a year was added to the global economy but it left the number living in poverty nearly unchanged at more than 1 billion. The problem is not money but political will in dealing with problems that will come to haunt us in the years ahead. This book is invaluable in defining the problems, proposing solutions and helping each of us identify where we should try to make a difference.	2004-03-05
US	51116445	R1G4AB17HRHCPQ	1576752348	447116287	Walking the Talk: The Business Case for Sustainable Development	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Read this book if you want to improve your bottom line	Business has always had as its prime responsibility making profits and this is what most stakeholders seek from their investment. It is only when business is convinced that it will make better profits over the long term by being socially and environmentally responsible that we will see the changes that are required to leave a better world to our children. It was therefore like a breath of fresh air to discover this book written by influential businessmen showing that corporate social and environmental practice will improve both the bottom line and the planet. More than 160 companies have joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and are trying to run their companies in the best interests of human society and the natural environment. Emerging from the vision of a small group of business leaders prior to the 1992 Earth Summit, the WBCSD published this book prior to the 2002 Johannesburg Summit. They found that the term 'sustainable development' is unknown to most of the world's inhabitants and that it is mildly annoying to almost all environment actors and thinkers but some corporations were drawn to it because it is not anti-growth and serious economic growth is required to meet the needs of the current population. Moreover, the issues of sustaining a planet are similar to those of sustaining a corporation - primarily managing a balancing act between the short-term and the long-term - and getting it wrong in either direction can mean extinction. Thinking in terms of sustainable development opens up new ways to grow and led to the more business friendly term of 'sustainable growth'. <br />As the market is good at reflecting short-term economic realities but poor at reflecting long-term economic realities and environmental realities the WBCSD prepared a report for the 1992 Summit calling for full-cost pricing, taxes and tradable permits rather than regulation, phasing out of subsidies, and accounting changes to reflect environmental scarcity. However, adoption of these measures would result in higher prices and the other two pillars of society - civil society and government - needed to accept such a change. Each sector tends to wait on the other; politicians do not want to become unpopular by pushing for higher prices nor do consumers want to spend more. &quot;There will not be real progress until business, government, and civil society team up in new and dynamic partnerships.&quot; <br />Adoption of the phrase 'eco-efficiency' was a conceptual breakthrough that allowed moral and ethical practice to be linked to good business practice and set an agenda of producing more with less - a package that would make companies more competitive. Companies could be more profitable while keeping a human face and as few companies were prepared for consumer's ability to get their concerns into board rooms, managing a company's reputation became a central element in managing a corporation. This led to companies adding an environmental section to their annual financial report and reporting on the triple bottom line - financial, environmental and social. This has already brought about some radical changes. &quot;Companies that once sold paint to car companies now sell the service of painting cars. So where once they improved their bottom line by maximizing cans of paint sold, they now improve the bottom line by minimizing the use of paint per car.&quot; DuPont decided that if it wanted its business to be sustainable it had to improve earnings by using fewer raw materials. This lead to the concept of shareholder value added (SVA) per pound of production and the goal of doubling the SVA of Kevlar fiber over the next five years. &quot;Dupont Flooring Services has developed a system to offer certified installation, patented maintenance and end-of-life recycling to the already world-class carpet offering of DuPont Antron.&quot; At DuPont the question of whether sustainability improves the bottom line is not asked any more: &quot;That is how we will get our bottom line, and that is how we will create value for our shareholders and for society.&quot;<br />By devoting 2% of its annual capital investment to environmental performance, a Swiss-based company has a vision of being a 'zero-equivalent carbon dioxide emission company' through a 5% pa annual reduction of energy per unit, increased use of alternative and renewable energy and by planting 35,000 hectares of land with trees to compensate for the remaining emissions, with a projected saving of $1 billion between 1994 and 2010. &quot;Thanks to these measures, the planet has been spared the burden of another 100-megawatt power plant; the water we have saved could quench the thirst of 50 million people a year. We are using 28% less electricity and 45% less water than in 1994 for the same output. This translates, with a large increase in volume today, into a saving of $50 million in 2000 alone.&quot;<br />This book has 67 case studies that present current leading edge thinking. For a company that believes that it will remain competitive by neglecting environmental issues, this book will be an eye-opener. For others it is impossible to read this book without coming away with ideas for improving performance and the bottom line.	2004-03-04
US	51116445	R2EJ3NBJE14Z37	0393319377	948069011	Pillar of Sand: Can the Irrigation Miracle Last? (Worldwatch Environmental Alert Series.)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book should be required reading for everyone	The expansion of irrigation world wide has made a major contribution to increased food production, but for many years the World Watch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute have called attention to the danger of falling water tables and rivers that no longer reach the sea. Although China increased grain production from 90m tons in 1950 to 392 million tons in 1998, this was achieved at the price of rapidly falling water tables with the result that consumption exceeded production in four of the last five years; very soon China will be importing 30 - 50 million tons of grain annually, putting pressure on world grain prices. As wheat requires 1000 tons of water to produce one ton of wheat, the key challenges are: \\"how can we meet growing human needs for irrigation water without destroying the health of rivers, lakes and other aquatic systems? How can we grow enough food in a sustainable manner?\\" History tells us that most irrigation-based civilizations fail. The question we must address is \\"Will our civilization be different?\\" <br />Settled agriculture started 10,000 years ago in Mesopotamia but around 4,000 BC enterprising Sumerian farmers in the Fertile Crescent - present day Iraq - diverted water from the Euphrates to prevent crops withering before harvest. Irrigation allowed farmers to grow an extra crop and produce surpluses leading to an expanding population and a flourishing civilization but also bringing soil degradation from salt left by evaporation. By the 16th century the Fertile Crescent, was little more than a salty wasteland. 20% of the irrigated land today suffers from salt build up; land lost offsets increased productivity from expanding irrigation. The solution is to use just the amount of water required during the growing season and just enough to leach away salts in the root zone and then to reuse drainage water for crops with a higher salt tolerance such as cotton or tomatoes for canning or paste. <br />The rise and fall of civilizations closely follows the success and ultimate failure of irrigation. In 1800, global irrigated area was about the size of Austria, while today it is 30 times larger, provides 40% of our food, and is the foundation for feeding 70 million new mouths each year. However, our present day base for food production is highly vulnerable as groundwater is over-pumped and salinization spreads. Increasing land productivity is our main hope at a time when water scarcity and water misuse are the biggest threats to global food production. Food prices are at historically low levels making it difficult to justify new investments in irrigation systems. Many important food-producing regions are sustained by the hydrological equivalent of deficit financing. While water shortages are the main problem, they are compounded by global warming bringing a changing climate, shifting rainfall patterns, and more frequent hurricanes and monsoons. In addition low-lying agricultural land is lost as sea levels rise from thermal expansion of the oceans and melting glaciers and ice caps. Increasing land productivity means extending irrigation to the smallest and poorest farmers, particularly in South Asia and sub-Sahara Africa. <br />Irrigation will provide the bulk of the additional food needed in the decades ahead, but there is a shift of water away from agriculture to satisfy rapidly growing urban and industrial demands. We have to grow more food with less water; more crop per drop is the agricultural frontier of the 21st century. \\"There is no obvious, off-the-shelf package available to raise water productivity. This new challenge will require a more diverse and creative mix of strategies that together make agriculture more information-intensive and less resource intensive. - in most cases, by substituting technology and better management for water. But the technologies and strategies described in this chapter inspire hope that we can achieve the doubling of water productivity needed to satisfy the food, water, and environmental needs of the next several decades - if we choose.\\"<br />Adoption of drip and other microirrigation techniques cut water use and increase crop yields but only 1% of the world's irrigated area uses these methods. If combined with other methods productivity can be greatly improved. \\"Wuertz pioneered a farming system that combines drip irrigation with minimum tillage of the soil. He buried drip tubing 8-10 inches deep in every crop row, and then practiced multiple cropping of vegetables and field crops (including cotton) along with minimum tillage, leaving the drip irrigation system in place. Studies of Wuertz's low-till drip methods by the University of Arizona showed that the system was able to cut water and energy use by about half and field labor by nearly 60% while increasing lint yield from cotton crops by 13%.\\"<br />Improved management practices can help farmers reduce water demands while maintaining or increasing crop yields. Weather monitoring and satellite technologies help farmers know when crops need irrigation; pricing water more effectively provides an incentive to farmers to use water more efficiently; improving the ability of crops themselves to use water more efficiently; improving the harvest index to get more edible crop from the same amount of water; breeding or bioengineering plants that photosynthesize in a more water-efficient manner; reuse of municipal waste water for irrigation - these are all part of the solution. Much of the world's grain goes to feed livestock but pork requires twice as much grain per kilo as chicken or farmed fish. Many farmers who are too poor to tap the water a short distance below the surface, a flaw which needs to be remedied by providing them access to affordable irrigation. <br />Globally the grain harvest is enough but 15% of the world's population cannot afford grain even at today's historically low prices. Very soon food prices will rise, the housewife will complain at the supermarket, and we will see people starving in poor countries. Then people will ask \\"What went wrong?\\" The answers are to be found in this book that should be required reading for everyone.	2004-03-04
US	51116445	R2S288JAKS56QP	1576751295	32029043	Responsible Restructuring: Creative and Profitable Alternatives to Layoffs	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Many good ideas as alternatives to layoffs	Not all companies follow the slash and burn tactics of laying off staff in an economic downturn - some look upon employees as an asset to be developed and follow an approach called 'responsible restructuring' because they know that cutting people can be disastrous, especially in a knowledge-based organization. Cascio investigated the way that companies restructure and identified two main groups, - the larger saw employees as a cost to be cut while a smaller group of responsible restructurers saw employees as assets to be developed by asking how they could change their way of business to use staff more effectively. By analyzing S&amp;P 500 companies over eight years Cascio showed that downsizers were not more profitable nor were stockholders better off.<br />A medium sized securities trading firm, relying heavily on its employee's knowledge and creativity, experienced a major downturn in revenues and stock price after a decade during which employees generated excellent results and built customer loyalty. However, faced with the fact that employees accounted for more than half of expenses, top management sought the best solution. There were many different approaches to learn from: Merrill Lynch cut one in six employees world wide; Charles Schwab used layoffs only as a last resort; Lehman Brothers insisted on keeping staff in tact and even hiring new talent; Edward Jones kept all staff but cut bonuses. After 9/11 Boeing laid off 30,000 employees while Airbus reduced head count through attrition. As the economy weakened some firms seized the opportunity to strengthen their competitive position through a variety of strategies such as cost cutting, expansion, marketing, and acquisitions. Kodak restructured to compete in the digital era; computer based typesetting revolutionized the newspaper industry. But what would be the best strategy for the medium sized securities firm? This book provides a wealth of case studies and examples of proven alternatives to layoffs. <br />Layoffs are not only traumatic to those who leave but can affect the quality of work done by those that stay. For three years union workers at the Decatur Plant at Bridgestone/Firestone were on strike or working without a contract during which their tires prompted more complaints, compensation claims rose and the loss of 40 lives was attributed to the labor dispute. Each year Fortune magazine publishes a list of the best companies to work for - companies which satisfy all stakeholders. &quot;High-performing companies do walk the talk when it comes to performance measure. It is clear that they are seriously committed to the human elements that contribute to their success.&quot;<br />Responsible restructuring relies on workers to provide substantial competitive advantage by adapting a wide range of practices such as training, information sharing, participatory management, flattened organizational structures, labor management partnerships, compensation linked to skills, and customer satisfaction. Chapter 5 &quot;Responsible Restructuring - Alternative Strategies&quot; is full of case studies and examples of strategies such as 'use downsizing as a last resort while reinventing your business' and 'do everything you can to manage survivors well' and 'generate good will, even loyalty, among departing employees' and 'provide unemployment benefits for employees whose hours are cut' and 'ensure employment security through redeployment' and 'ask for sacrifices from executives and employees'.<br />Chapter 6: &quot;The Virtues of Stability&quot; provides a lot of information on three companies. 100-year-old Lincoln Electric Holdings features high wages, guaranteed employment, few supervisors, a lucrative bonus system, and piece work compensation; Harvard Business School cites it as a model of corporate responsibility while others praise its innovative management practices. Core values at SAS Institute are: 'treat everyone fairly and equally; treat people with respect and dignity;make work fun; trust people to do a good job.' They focus on employees and customers, believing that if they find and keep the best people, everything else will take care of itself. The rags to riches story of Southwest Airlines that started in 1966 and by 2001 had become the most successful airline in history is reviewed. Top employers share three characteristics: clear vision; excellent delivery and execution of people-related initiatives; and highly engaged employees who are aligned to the business strategies of their companies.<br />Chapter 7 &quot;Responsible Restructuring: What to Do and What Not to Do&quot; starts with &quot;Even though there is no one, right way to restructure, following the guidelines presented in this chapter has yielded positive results for companies and their workforces.&quot; It is highly unlikely that anyone can read this book without coming away with ideas for improving their competitive position.	2004-03-03
US	51116445	R38NGLBXNG8Q35	0452278104	570277490	The Family Virtues Guide: Simple Ways to Bring Out the Best in Our Children and Ourselves	Books	5	23	24	N	N	a very valuable contribution	What is the most important gift we can give our child during the few short years parents exercise major influence? Could it be that giving them a strong moral and ethical framework is the most important task we face? The voices are few, but they are growing - voices that say that ethics is the missing link in the world today. Voices that say that virtues need to be taught to our children in schools. Voices expressed in such books as \\"The Quiet revolution; Encouraging Positive Values in our Children\\" where we are told about a revolution in education that is taking place in the Oxford Education Authority in the UK, based on positive concepts such as honesty, truthfulness, respect, happiness, peace, responsibility and love. During the school year children are exposed to 22 similar concepts because the headmaster sees values as the foundation of education, of the healthy development of the child and indeed of the strength of the national community. <br />Religions identify more that 300 virtues as the basis of their teachings, but the author of \\"The Family Virtues Guide\\" has limited herself to a more manageable 52 - one for each week of the year - and reading this book was like a breath of fresh air in a smoke-filled room. Compiled by the Virtues Project, an international organization dedicated to inspiring spiritual growth in young and old alike, this multicultural, interfaith handbook has been prepared for all those who wish to turn these 52 virtues into reality by providing us with simple strategies which we can readily incorporate into our daily life and thus take advantage of those quickly passing teachable moments. All religions have their own version of the Golden Rule - do unto others as you would have others do unto you. Likewise virtues are the silver thread running through all humanity's sacred literature, the traditions of indigenous peoples, all religions, faiths and cultures. Virtues are the qualities of the soul.<br />We should be concerned about virtues,not only because virtuous people are good people - it goes deeper than that. In each of us there is a deep spiritual need, a yearning of the soul which is often misinterpreted as physical or material neediness. How many of us believe that if only we had more popularity, money, love, power or a better job, we would be happy? Yet when we try to fill this longing by something physical or material - something outside ourselves - we remain unsatisfied. We need to connect to our spiritual self, some would say connect with God, to feel that we are a complete, whole person. The author likens a child to an acorn with the potential to grow into a great oak - born with all the virtues waiting to grow. But just as a tree requires the right environment to grow, so virtues in a child need tender loving care to develop. In today's world of latchkey children, it is easy to believe that if we satisfy our child's physical needs we are being good parents. But a child needs more and this book helps us to understand and implement part of what is missing. This book should be read by all thoughtful, loving parents who want their child to develop into the oak tree that is their potential.<BR>  <BR>The introduction tells us what we can expect from this book: \\"The Guide is a how-to manual for applying virtues in everyday life, for supporting each other to set spiritual goals. It is a guide to a simple language of spirituality - the virtues themselves. Some call it the language of the heart.\\" Each virtue begins with a small inspirational quotation from the holy book of one of the world's religions and has an explanation of its meaning, why and how we should practice it and how we measure success in implementing it. The concept is well thought through, well presented and easy to follow. <br />Parents are the child's first teacher, yet most of us become parents with little training and prior preparation for such easily overlooked areas as teaching virtues. Very quickly children are launched into the world of television, materialism and advertising where they are exposed to values representing the opposite of ethics, integrity and love. For those who feel that endowing our children with virtues is important, \\"The Family Virtues Guide\\" is a very valuable contribution.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R1YUH9B1L6BYYH	0901269565	645814367	Escape to Live	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A remarkable account of Howell's journey to freedom	It is strange how sometimes we have to go through horrific experiences and reach rock bottom before we discover what it is that we were born into this world to do or be. So it was with Edward Howell, a man I met a number of times before he died and with whom my wife and I exchanged Christmas cards. By the time I knew him he had grown old and wise but he was still trim and sprightly and I could imagine him as a Douglas Bader type in his youth. It was young men of his caliber who gave the Germans such a tough time in the battle of Crete in 1940. These were the golden years when youth are self-sufficient and don't need God but he was shot down. The Germans were victorious and Howell was captured. From this point he went down hill fast as he was very badly injured. He was moved from hospital to hospital, always in the company of the dregs and barely hanging on. He hit rock bottom when the Athens hospital was closed and he was moved to Salonica - to the infamous Dulag 183 where he met Charles House and his wife whose father had founded the American Farm School in 1904. Charles House had taken over the school and now, in prison, he and his wife were a constant source of encouragement and practical help as they had friends who provided fresh milk and eggs. Their interest in people was such that each man in the ward felt they had come to visit him personally. At this point Howell discovered God and through a series of miracles the impossible happened and he made his way to Egypt just as Rommel seemed unstoppable in North Africa and then back to England. <br />After the war he realized that he had been saved to complete his own special mission in life. The author tells us: &quot;This is a story of a man's journey. First, it is a journey in search of freedom. It tells how, after some difficulties and adventures, he found freedom at last. Then, it is the story of a journey into freedom. Where life had found its true purpose and direction. Where real satisfaction and happinesswere not just round the next corner but were to be found in any circumstances, at any time, with any people and in any place. Finally, it is the story of how a man found how to play his part in the greatest adventure of all time - the discovery of a new world. It tells how it is possible to have this new world, free from fear and want, from misery and oppression. How anyone can begin to build it anywhere, any time he chooses. How it can come to our homes today. To the place we work tomorrow. To our nation, and, perhaps, to every nation in our lifetime, provided we are faithful and determined and united.&quot; <br />The road to freedom for an individual or for a nation is marked by milestones of costly moral decisions, needing the power of self-mastery that is the key to human character. It is that power that shapes history through men and women who chose deliberately to become its instruments. It is that super-force on which we base our hope for the future - of change for ourselves, for a new and better world. This book is a remarkable account of Howell's journey to freedom. It is as relevant to us today as Howell's experiences in the 1940s.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R18EG5C4PT4A26	0684857162	396925349	Living the 7 Habits: The Courage to Change	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A multitude of examples of successful applications	When I first read &quot;The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People&quot; I recognized its value but was not highly enough motivated to incorporate it into my daily life. Then with the passage of time and particularly after reading Covey's &quot;Principle-Centered Leadership&quot; I came back to it. Yet there was still something holding me back. The missing something was &quot;Living the 7 Habits: Stories of Courage and Inspiration&quot; with its multitude of examples of successful application in real world situations. I needed the encouragement of others to tell me &quot;Hey this is how I applied it; it worked for me; you can do it, too.&quot; You need to read all three books because there is a multiplier effect - the three together are greater than their simple sum.<br /> &quot;Living the 7 Habits: The Courage to Change&quot; is a collection of personal statements in four broad contexts: individual, family, community and education, and workplace. This synopsis is about the person who was appointed change agent of a major company that, with an annual growth rate of 40%, was one of the fastest growing companies in the world. &quot; My goal was to create an organization of fifteen thousand exceptional businesspeople. We assumed that everyone wanted to be an entrepreneur within the company, and we gave them credit for having the brains and initiative to do it. My mission was to change the culture within what is essentially a virtual company. Our corporation had more territorial rivalries than the Middle East. Information was hoarded. Communication was disjointed. Trust and synergy were virtually nonexistent. Suddenly, the competition was all over us, undercutting our prices and courting our customers. One of my directives was to make the company more competitive and to learn faster than our competition. My job was to help create among the company's widely scattered population a sense of shared purpose (Habit 2: Begin with the End in Mind). After recruiting the best, brightest, and most highly motivated people, we gently immersed them in the realities of our business, presenting them with information on profit margins, the marketplace, and the influences impacting the decisions of their customers (Habit 5: Seek First to Understand, Then to Be Understood). They were also introduced to a specially designed 7 Habits course to provide them with foundational principles and context for the other materials. There were only three rules: Take care of yourself. Take care of each other. Take care of this place. It wasn't long before mission statements began appearing on cubicle walls, and the conversations among employees were marked by references to making deposits into Emotional Bank Accounts. It was an experience of self-discovery for many people. They realized that the company valued them. I had spouses come to me after their husbands or wives had been to a session and say, 'This changed my life because it changed our family.'&quot; <br />Not all the stories relate specific actions against a specific habit. This is a synopsis of a story by a person from Indian stock whose grandfather was cheated out of 160 acres of oil-rich land. &quot;It was only after he died, when we were going through his papers and correspondence, that I realized what a phenomenal man my simple, unassuming grandfather actually was. The Washington my grandmother referred to was actually Washington, D.C. In his papers, we found letters from governors, senators, U.S. representatives. Some congratulated him on his fiftieth wedding anniversary; others thanked him for his help with legislation issues and for his community service. I sat there thinking, &quot;Did they know the same man I did?&quot; He had no eloquence, no wealth, not even his own home. Yet here were famous, powerful people corresponding with him. I realized that his life had been lived not to acquire things for himself, but to help other people. He had lived a life of integrity, honesty, and dedication to family and community all the while toiling in relative obscurity and humility. Once, before he died, he told me that there are two reward systems: people who will be rewarded here and people who will be rewarded later. 'These are not the same people,' he said. He continued, 'For all that you don't see in a reward system now, you will see some other time.' We debated long and hard what to do about the situation. Should we sue him to take back the land? Should we let it alone? Shouldn't he have to pay for his wrong doings? In the end, we knew. We knew what he would do. He would let it alone and allow the taxpayer to reap whatever rewards his behavior would cause him to reap, whether here or later. My grandfather might not have been able to leave us 160 acres of oil-rich land in Oklahoma but he left us something far more important. His insistence on humility, on compassion, on spending his life trying to help those around him with no thought of reward or praise is now our family legacy. He has changed generations of people with the help he gave. Can you put a dollar-and-cents value on that? I say absolutely not. We now have a value I try to instill in my own family to continue the legacy started by the Choctaw preacher who never owned his own home.&quot;<br />I think there is a maturity continuum. It is as though most other books address the nuts and bolts of doing business well - and of course that is important - and then we discover that there is something more to business than just that. Then we are ready for Stephen Covey.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R17LS40RNBGTME	0853982880	50077745	The Search for a Just Society	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Our leaders should read this book	As we watch the sad unfolding of events surrounding the breakdown of the WTO talks, I think that the message the poor countries are trying to get over to the rich countries is that &quot;you are not creating a just world society&quot;. Surely we need to seek out some wise men who can help us understand what those with the power are doing wrong and what we must do to create a society which is acceptable to the have-nots. Stephen Covey in his books &quot;The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People&quot; and &quot;Principle-Centered Leadership&quot; has pointed the way at an individual and business level with Habit #4 &quot;Win-Win&quot;. Now we need someone who can do the same thing at an international level. All the poor guys want is an end to the rich get richer while the poor get poorer approach to a win-win approach.  So it seemed appropriate to see what Huddleston had to say about just societies. My goal in studying this book was to determine whether Huddleston is that wise man that enlightened leaders should refer to.<br />First of all the author looks at the past with peace through empire, the various religions, Greece and the rational philosophers, Pax Romana through the English, American and French Revolutions. My fear is that the west has already sown the seeds of what might turn out to be more horrific than any of those three revolutions. Five billion angry have-nots, with virtually nothing to lose, armed with today's technology can make those three revolutions seem like 3-year-olds playing in kindergarten.<br />Part II - The Present Age- reviews the movements for greater political and social equality, reducing material poverty and moving from war to peace. Part III - The Future - is what I was really looking for. It has five sections - &quot;Where do we go from here?&quot;; &quot;The big picture&quot;; &quot;Preparing for a just society&quot;; &quot;A vision of world peace&quot;; &quot;The program in action&quot;. I was interested to see that several pages were devoted to the spiritual dimension because I have concluded that humankind has two sides to his nature - the material and spiritual. Our materialistic side has become grossly over-developed while our spiritual side is hardly even acknowledged. We will find a way out of our crisis only when the material and spiritual side of our nature come back into balance. I was also intrigued to note that under &quot;preparing for a just society&quot; Huddelston starts with the individual, moves to the family and only then talks about collective action. This is exactly the same conclusion reached by Covey - start with yourself; you have to change before you can hope to change others. Why should we have a vision of peace? Proverbs tells us that a nation without vision shall perish. Peter Drucker tells us something similar. <br />So it all comes down to whether Huddleston has come up with a realistic vision and whether his proposed plan of action would be successful. I am not a wise enough man to pass judgement on these two parts of the book. However, I do feel wise enough to advise those in a position of power, influence and decision-making in the rich countries of the WTO and governments that this book should be required reading before going into the next round of negotiations. Our leaders should gather together the wisest in the land, let them review all proposals such as Huddleston's, come to a consensus, and then lets stop talking and start building a better, fairer world. Personally, I believe that the hordes are already preparing to storm the gates of our present day Bastille. It will not be a pretty sight seeing the heads of our selfish, greedy leaders looking down at us from the fence of the White House and other centers of government.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R3NXIO9LEKFJVW	0853983828	763087573	Sexuality, Relationships and Spiritual Growth	Books	5	6	6	N	N	we should all read this book	How many parents of teenagers would like their child to be a virgin on marriage? Is such a thought even possible in today's world? We do occasionally hear about individuals or groups who have somehow retained their chastity, but at what price? This book is about helping our teenagers develop old-fashioned, healthy relationships and coming out better people for the experience because of their personal growth and the enrichment they can bring to their relationships. This book is about the new qualities being woven into intimate bonds between men and women, while upholding standards of chastity in the belief that chastity will permit people to associate more freely and with greater creativity in relationships. Although this is a field where there are no quick-fix solutions, Ghaznavi believes that the Bahai faith offers the most beautiful recipe we can find today for this complicated area of growth and sexual needs. And she does not just pretend that the needs do not exist but meets them head on - hers is not a philosophy of suppression of the sex impulse and sweeping under the carpet but self-discipline, regulation and control.<br />Chapter 1 touches on the lives of several married couples, at least one of whose relationship may ring a bell, because they are unwilling or unable to come to terms with the shortcomings of the relationship that slowly evolves. You cannot have your cake and eat it too in a marriage relationship because after the initial glow wears off, you cannot experience joy without growth and pain; happiness is a quickly disappearing commodity unless sustained by durable, spiritual foundations. This, of course, is not a popular notion to a person who sees sexuality as a right or a matter-of-fact accompaniment to life and a source of never-ending pleasure. With our over-exaggeration of the importance of physical love, accompanied by a dearth of spiritual values, it is very difficult for a relationship to grow and evolve in a healthy, long-lasting manner.Man was made for woman and each complements the other. If one is defective, the other will be incomplete and the couple cannot attain perfection. As the author is a psychiatrist many cases are referred to her when the relationship has deteriorated to the point where marriage is considered to have been a mistake and divorce or even suicide is contemplated. All too often we live the life expected of us by a parent or society or the norm of the group we associate with; we are not living the way that provides a deep-down satisfying relationship to us which is what marriage is supposed to be. Women and men must understand each other and coordinate and advance in harmony. <br />Having set the scene of what can so easily go wrong, the author next explores the qualities and attitudes necessary in a relationship where equality, friendship, respect and esteem take highest place. The lack of true friendship between marriage partners is one of the reasons marriages go stale, peter off into unfaithfulness, break up in a crisis or wither slowly. But the shortcomings of the parents quickly filter through to the children who are very much aware of a deteriorating parental relationship however much the parents may think they are hiding it. As children grow older and enter puberty and adolescence the necessity for friendship becomes even more evident. During this stage of the family many couples become aware of an immense gap in their relationship that can very often be spelled out as an absence of friendship. Thus it is important to maintain and consciously deepen friendship as children grow. During the children's adolescence, the prevalent tendency for couples to separate and divorce will exert a powerful influence. So often our youth get into a sexual relationship, not because they have a deep urge to satisfy but as an escape from parental shortcomings.   <br />At this point the author is ready to talk about chastity and the double standard that we perpetrate through education. Men receive instruction on how to conquer women while women receive instruction on subduing their eroticism, keeping pure and safeguarding themselves from male lust - with the corresponding neuroses. Here I found it strange that the Bahai religion has had such a deep influence on the author and that it should be so specific about relationships and sex. In the Bible we have the Ten Commandments and St. Paul's very male oriented view of relationships but very little more. In contrast the Bahai writings are full of guidance such as chastity \\"implies both before and after marriage an unsullied, chaste sex life. Before marriage absolutely chaste, after marriage absolutely faithful to one's chosen companion. Faithful in all sexual acts, faithful in word and in deed\\". The author clearly shows her Bahai background when she says \\"Chastity, in this sense, is a life- and society-saving divine measure, although it is difficult to put into practice for people whose background is a society ably wielding the double standard. Through this vision, though, Bahais the world over are joyously making efforts to uphold this new value and to hand it over to their children as a boon for the generations to come. In this way new foundations for society will slowly be raised and will yield the fruits of happier marriages.\\"<br />This is a book we should all read. If that initial glow has mellowed, supposedly because of work stress or raising children, that may be the first sign that you need this book. If you have a teenage child and want him or her to run against the norms of their group this book will help you give the right advice. If you are a person who deep down believes in those old-fashioned values but find it terribly difficult to fight the battle alone, you will find this book invaluable.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R1AHPDLGG3G1BP	1559639415	230027951	Fatal Harvest: The Tragedy Of Industrial Agriculture	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Congratulations to those who prepared this volume	When I received this book recently as a gift I was completely overwhelmed. Overwhelmed by the considerateness of the donor. Overwhelmed by the high quality of the production. Overwhelmed by the large number of &quot;big names&quot; who had contributed. Overwhelmed by the quality and meaningfulness of the photographs. Overwhelmed by the quality of the message that it gets across. Overwhelmed by the ammunition it gives me in my own personal drive for safer, more reliable food. Overwhelmed by how helpful it will be to the waverers who have not yet plucked up the courage to break their links with the chemical establishment.<br />Let me start with the photos which are not only high quality but extremely helpful because side by side we are given a picture of crops grown under two systems which represent the two poles of producing our food. The text on the left page goes like this: &quot;Industrial Eye: see what you are looking at: MELONS: More than half the melons sold in the U.S. are grown in California where industrial melon farms stretch for miles and miles ... Two of the most heavily used toxins in industrial melon production are ... Life is also difficult for the melon pickers ...&quot; On the right page we have: &quot;Agrarian Eye: See what you are looking at: MELONS: These melons are one crop among dozens at the Live Earth's 23-acre farm near Santa Cruz, CA. The melons are part of a diverse system of annual and perennial fruit and vegetable crops that rely on soil health to support the plant's natural ability to deter pests. But it's not done so easily - there are many challenges ... Coastal fog also poses potential fungal problems for melons, which Broz addresses by using fungal-resistant varieties of melons ... The melons are sold at local farmers' markets and through the farm's community supported agriculture (CSA) program, where families receive a weekly box of seasonal fruits and vegetables throughout the growing season.&quot;<br />Next the text. &quot;Part One: Farming as if Nature Mattered: Breaking the Industrial Paradigm&quot; is composed of seven articles such as &quot;Global Monoculture: The Worldwide Destruction of Diversity&quot;. Then &quot;Part Two: Corporate Lies: Busting the Myths of Industrial Agriculture&quot; is composed of articles each addressing one of the seven myths such as &quot;Myth Two: Industrial Food is Safe, Healthy and Nutritious&quot;. The book continues through to &quot;Part Seven: Organic and Beyond: Revisioning Agriculture for the 21st Century&quot; with nine more articles such as &quot;The Ethics of Eating: Why Environmentalism Starts at the Breakfast Table.&quot;<br />In these 370 pages we have all the information we need to convince those sitting on the fence that we must reduce our dependence on industrial agriculture. When confronted with this volume it is difficult to imagine how all those involved in the industrial agricultural chain will be able to put up an effective argument. On the contrary, it should be convincing to the thinking service organization that this is where their future profits lie and they should climb on the band wagon helping rather than hindering. For the farmer who is wavering - and probably for good reasons as his livelihood is affected - he will find in this volume the encouragement he needs; others have forged the trail and he can follow in the knowledge that the forerunners have solved the major problems.<br />Bravo to all those concerned with the preparation of this volume. You have done mankind a great service. It is a long tunnel down which we are travelling, but I for one can now see the light in the distance. Because of your initiative the rest of us will travel our own path with more confidence and with greater speed.  At last we can hope for some sanity in our food production. If we can get this volume into the hands of enough people - people who care - then we really can change the world. If Silent Spring was the book that woke the world to the evilsof indiscriminate chemical use, then this volume will go down as the one that banged home the last nail in the coffin of industrial agriculture.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R3OHB47893X2YX	0853980446	623948936	The Promise of All Ages	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this book and decide for yourself	All religions prophesized the Second Coming and around 1840 there was a strong belief among those who had studied the Bible and writings of other religions that the return was imminent somewhere in the Middle East. Some were so sure that they projected the exact date during 1844, while others were so sure that they purchased property and established themselves in Haifa, Israel.  However, just as Jesus did not appear in the way learned scholars predicted, the awaited one of the modern age did not appear as these people had expected. The date was about right; the location was wrong for that particular event but was right for later events. The savior did not appear riding a chariot out of the sky but in the form of a fairly ordinary person. George Townshend, a Canon of St. Patrick's' Cathedral, Dublin in Ireland, investigated the evidence very carefully and became convinced that this person was the new savior. But just as the established church could not accept Jesus as the Messiah, so the new savior, Baha'u'llah was persecuted, imprisoned and exiled by the religious leaders of his time. The fact that learned people have repeatedly failed to understand the prophecies in the Bible sows confusion in the minds of ordinary people. It is only those prepared to question the truths handed to them by the church establishment and those prepared to conduct their own independent investigation of the truth, who are able to break out of the shackles with which  religious leaders bind us. George Townshend was one of those willing to conduct his own investigation and was convinced that Baha'u'llah was the long-awaited Second Coming. If Townshend is right, this is the most exciting development on our planet for centuries.<br />Taken from the foreword, this passage tells exactly what this book is about:<BR>&quot;This volume contains not only an argument but a story, a story of immediate interest and concern to everyone in the West; a story of the first systematic effort to reconstructthe social order on a world-wide basis and to lift mankind to the level of a new social responsibility. The central figure of this story is a Great Seer, who in prophetic tones forecast the character and magnitude of the Day of God then at its dawning, and by word and by example, in his Epistles to the Kings and in other writings, called on his own and other nations to reduce their armaments, to seek union and peace and to prepare for that long promised civilization in which righteousness and justice would prevail throughout the earth. Because he was ahead of his age he was misunderstood; and with all his followers was proscribed, anathematized, and cruelly persecuted. But a truth whose time has come cannot be suppressed by priests and tyrants. A strong fire smothered at the surface will be driven deep, will spread far and wide underground and will reappear later at a distance from its source. The spiritual ideals and noble peace-aims that now increasingly find utterance in western lands are as uprushes from a hidden fire, glimpses of that ordered and balanced scheme for world reform which was wrought out and promulgated by Baha'u'llah in prison, some 70 years ago. The challenge of this story, of the enthusiasm of its heroes, their restless energy, their radiant faith, will bring delight and uplift to every spiritual mind For it is not the challenge of the cynic or the skeptic, but that of fellow believers in God who with joy sacrificed all they had and all they were in an effort to establish World Peace on an imperishable foundation.&quot;<br />There are some things in life that we should not delegate to someone else and this matter is one of those. Ultimately we are responsible for how we live our lives and what we believe. We can seek help and guidance from others but the final choice is ours. George Townshend has prepared convincing evidence that the long-awaited second coming of Christ has occurred in the figure of Baha'u'llah and that the new religion - the Bahai Faith - that he created is alive and growing rapidly in supporters. We should at least read this book and decide for ourselves whether there is a basis of truth in what Townshend tells us.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R1VRYT6AR2Z7SN	0853980829	14970135	The brilliant stars : the Bah' faith and the education of children	Books	5	2	3	N	N	we need to instill values, morals, ethics, spirituality	At the 2002 Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development it was decided to declare a decade of Education for Sustainable Development, starting in 2005. Reintroducing values back into the curriculum for school children is an important part of education for a better world and the Oxfordshire Education Authority is paving the way as described in the book \\"The Quiet Revolution: Encouraging Positive Values in our Children\\" by Frances Farrer. I turned to \\"Brilliant Stars\\" to determine if Dr. Rost's ideas, taken from the writings of the Bahai Faith, might be a worthy contribution to education for sustainable development.<BR> <BR>The author starts by looking at some of the things which are wrong in the world today and which have brought the world into crisis. Many of our problems have their root in two things - our loss of spirituality and our education system. A growing number of thinkers agree that if mankind is to survive we must have better human beings in a world of peace, in a world of unity. In fact we need a new world order.  Education must address itself to these problems, with child education playing a key role. <br />It seems to me that this quotation, taken from the Bahai writings clearly identifies the problem: \\"In man there are two natures: his spiritual or higher nature and his material or lower nature. If he allows his lower nature to overcome him, he is no better than an animal. The child must be lifted up from his lower nature through education. Spiritual education is essential for the victory of man's spiritual nature over his lower nature.\\" Our current education system is obsolete in that it has given such great emphasis to our material or lower nature that many on the fringe of Enron-type fiascoes feel that the only thing that is wrong is getting caught. We really must redress the balance and that is what this book is all about.<br />It is still unfashionable to talk about ethics, morals and spirituality and most people are afraid to stick theirneck out by using such words. However, at the Johannesburg Summit there were a handful of papers such as \\"Globalization and Sustainable Development: Is Ethics The Missing Link?\\" and \\"Sustainable Development: the Spiritual Dimension\\" showing that leading-edge thinkers have identified the lack of the spiritual dimension as the underlying reason for the world's troubles. The chapters \\"Education and the Nature of Man\\" and \\"Education for Perfections\\" and \\"Education for a Unified World\\" get down to the nitty gritty, the author telling us that the basic purpose of man is to know and to love God and to acquire qualities, attributes and characteristics needed when we pass to the heavenly kingdom. Our attainment of love of God is the key to our attainment of love of mankind. <br />We need to agree on a general picture of the future of mankind and an educational approach to match. Society is ill and is in need of a highly skilled physician - but who is the physician who can prescribe the remedies for the illness? Unlike the world's thinkers and leaders, handicapped by their inadequate man-made ideologies, theories and practices, the Bahai writings shed the clear light of divine guidance on the problems of the world and lay great emphasis on the education of children and youth. As a result, Bahais are deeply concerned that their children should receive proper character education, proper moral instruction, and proper spiritual education; from an early age Bahai children learn love for all humanity. This kind of education is taking place right now in Bahai houses, Bahai communities and Bahai summer schools. This kind of education has been developed and fine-tuned over many decades. The author believes that it is this kind of education that should spread to the public and private education systems around the world.<br />The universal crisis facing mankind is essentially spiritual in its causes. Both the individual and society need to acquire spiritual virtues and powers, for thelaws and institutions of the future will become effective only when the inner spiritual life of man has reached a much higher plane. A truly spiritualized, unified peaceful world requires the emergence of masses of spiritualized individuals. If you are a person who has concluded that ethics, morals and spirituality are the missing links or if you are a person who believes that our over-materialistic approach has lead us down the wrong path, then you should read this book. You will find the arguments and the template for a new and vastly improved approach to education of children, an approach that postulates a future world society whose characteristics will be peace, unity, and spirituality. If we are to lead the world out of crisis, we need to do a better job of educating our children and instilling values, morals, ethics and spirituality. We should be open to give the author's views a fair hearing.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R398LX6JIBX2H	0131696246	315459762	Creating the Resilient Organization: A Rapid Response Management Program	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Everyone can profit from reading this book	For me the words 'resilient organization' conjured up the image of an organization that would be able to absorb shocks without permanent injury, and able to adapt to a rapidly changing external environment in a quick and efficient manner. In today's world, resiliency well might be the key to survival as we know that each year a wild card - a low probability event which nevertheless occurs - will probably hit us from behind. We know that even if we have the best planners helping us, it is just not practical to budget for anything but the highest probability wild cards. In which case we need to be resilient like a boxer weaving in and out seeking the weaknesses in the opposition and ready to slam home a winning blow the moment he drops his guard. If indeed that is what the author meant by creating the resilient organization I would certainly like my organization to be resilient. <br />The fly sheet of the book had some complimentary remarks by well-known writers such as &quot;We must abandon our outdated management systems, style and beliefs. But How? ...&quot; and &quot;The social contract between corporation and worker has unraveled. Loyalty has disappeared. How do you motivate employees who are little more than mercenaries?&quot; and &quot;In the future, there will be two types of organizations: those that are agile and responsive and those that will be swallowed up in an avalanche of change.&quot; and &quot;'Creating the Resilient Organization' provides practical tools and proven methods for creating the agile, flexible enterprises necessary to survive and prosper.&quot; These comments made me feel that this book could have considerable value for my organization. <br />Pointing out that the latest management fads such as TQM have failed because they do not address the core processes involved in transforming yesterday's bureaucratic organization into tomorrows responsive enterprise, Deevy makes the case for radical transformation by answering three questions:<BR>-What is it about traditional work organizations that limits their ability to be competitive in a fast-paced business environment?<BR>- What cultural or systemic changes must be made in order to regain competitiveness?<BR>- How can we most effectively transform older bureaucracies into responsive high-performing enterprises?<br />The first three chapters deal with the first question while the remaining 14 chapters deal with the three secrets of treating employees; creating the resilient organization; leadership and middle management; the &quot;Blitz&quot; strategy for change; building support for change; promoting innovation and strategy; and unleashing the entrepreneurial spirit.<br />Having taken to heart Covey's advice to &quot;Start with the end in mind&quot;, I turned to chapter 7 with the subtitle &quot;Begin with a vision for the future&quot; with its opening remark from a hard-nosed business man: &quot;This vision stuff is not going to add to the bottom line&quot; and the author's  comment &quot;Ask any business leader what his or her vision is for the future of the company and you are likely to get a quick summary of the strategic plan.&quot; Yet a clear, practical, motivating vision that is clearly communicated is the first requirement for building a high-performance organization. Unfortunately George Bush with his comment about the &quot;vision thing&quot; gave the impression that vision is wishful thinking rather than business reality. Properly handled, vision drives performance, motivates, formulates practical guidelines, sets direction - in fact vision is the foundation for rapid-response management and is the first step in the process of building a high-performance enterprise.   <br />The second step is deciding where to position the organization in the market place and then and only then can you introduce RapidResponse management. We have only to reflect on Churchill's leadership in WW II and many business success stories since then to accept that leadership is the core requirement.  CEOs like Lee Iacocca and Jack Welch are respected for their &quot;slash and burn&quot; approach to management, although most such executives perceive themselves as practitioners of participatory management. However, many fail to distinguish between management (doing things right) and leadership (doing the right things). Most organizations have abundant management but little leadership. The author warns us that changing a mature company into a RapidResponse enterprise requires leadership attributes that are in scarce supply. One of the first steps is to let go of Theory X stereotypes that label workers as intrinsically lazy and unmotivated and start to recognize the potential of staff at all levels. Creativity can be found at every level, irrespective of academic credentials or job title. Pat Riley transformed a mediocre professional basketball team into world class competitors simply by helping them realize their potential.<br />With so many books in the market place and with so many advisors claiming to have a magic wand, it is difficult to know where to turn and who to trust. Moreover, your problem may be different from my problem and the book that is good for you may not be the book that is good for me. I go back to the book jacket. &quot;Analysts predict that as many as 6 million businesses will perish in the next five years for failure to adapt to the sweeping changes that affect how they do business. The businesses that will survive will be those that successfully transform themselves into &quot;RapidResponse&quot; organizations - companies that recognize and act on potential dangers and opportunities more quickly than their competitors.' Success today has the seeds of failure tomorrow if it instills complacency - in fact we have to plan to make ourselves redundant as soon as possible. If we don't then certainly the competition will. So I find it difficult to believe that anyone could not profit from studying this book; for some it may even mean survival.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R3V5NK24M46Q0Z	0062505963	747783151	Mother Earth Spirituality: Native American Paths to Healing Ourselves and Our World (Religion and Spirituality)	Books	5	172	177	N	N	Native American ways of living have much to teach us	After reading &quot;Black Elk Speaks&quot; I picked up this book because I believe that Native American ways of living have much to offer us. We neglect their wisdom at our peril. It is a great privilege that we have access to their knowledge on how we can live in harmony with Mother Earth. The author starts with the question why he should teach non-Indians about Native American spirituality and answers that it is time to share that spirituality because it does not belong to the Indians alone but to others with the right attitude; we all live in one world. If kept within the Indian community their old wisdom will not be allowed to work its environmental medicine on the world where it is desperately needed. A spiritual fire that promotes a communal commitment to a worldwide environmental undertaking is needed. Native or primal ways will fuel that fire and give it great power. Mother Earth can be revered, respected and protected.<br />He then quotes the letter from Chief Seathl (Seattle) to the President of the United States of America in 1854 - one of the most unusual and eloquent letters that a President can have received. &quot;How can we buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the land? The idea is strange to us. If we do not own the freshness of the air and the sparkle of the water, how can you buy them?&quot; The truth is that we could really stop here, go into a quiet room and reflect on those three sentences and we will surely discover the root cause of many of our ills. We put a price on everything the Indians think has no value and we place no value on everything the Indians think is valuable. Sparkling water in a stream flowing through a wood has no value to us but it is the essence of life to the Indian. Having polluted our rivers and killed the fish we are at long last starting to ask ourselves those very questions that Chief Seattle asked of the President 150 years ago.<br />Another point made by Chief Seattle haunts me. &quot;...to harm the earth is to heapcontempt on the Creator. The Whites too shall pass; perhaps sooner than all other tribes. Continue to contaminate your bed, and you will one night suffocate in your own waste.&quot; How many of us today are saying somewhat similar things to our deaf leaders? But the heart and soul of the Indian way of life lies at the end of Seattle's letter, &quot;So, if we sell our land, love it as we've loved it. Care for it as we've cared for it. Hold in your mind the memory of the land as it is when you take it. And with all your strength, with all your mind, with all your heart, preserve it for your children, and love it ... as God loves us all. One thing w know. Our God is the same God. This earth is precious to Him. Even the white man cannot be exempt from the common destiny. We may be brothers after all. We shall see.....&quot; How many of us would claim that we have loved the land as the Indians loved the land, or cared for the land as the Indians cared for the land? If we answer 'no', then surely that means that we have something to learn from the Native Indians. I am sure that if Chief Seattle were here today he would cry to see what we have done to those lands the Indians held sacred. He would cry for the pain inflicted on the earth. He would cry for us who in our greed and selfishness have wrought such damage on ourselves and our children.<br />I agree with and applaud Ed McGaa. A spiritual fire that promotes a communal commitment to a worldwide environmental undertaking is needed. Native or primal ways will fuel that fire and give it great power. We should all learn something from this book. But not just read and think and speak. But act. This book is nothing if we do not act on it. This is what Stephen Covey was telling us in &quot;The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People: Powerful Lessons in Personal Change&quot; that first we have to change ourselves, and only then we can change others and the world.<br />Einstein told us that we need a higher level of thinking to get ourselves out of the mess than the thinking that got us into the mess. Stephen Covey tells us that in such situations as we are in today we need a quantum change that can only be brought about by a completely new paradigm. Our current way of living is the paradigm that got us into the mess. The Indian approach is probably the paradigm that will get us out of the mess. If we read this book with an open mind and without prejudice, I believe that the Native American paradigm should be at the top of the shortlist of new paradigms from which we should make our selection for building the world we want for our children.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R3H17HJUSSG7P7	0853980209	974795609	The Heart of the Gospel (Talisman S)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Helpful to those who seek deeper meaning of the Bible	Do you suspect that our loss of spirituality is the basis of humankind's problems today? Do you feel that our phenomenal success in harnessing the wonders of science and technology has lead us down a path where we disregard our spiritual roots at our peril? Do you believe that returning to our spiritual roots should be high on the agenda of thinking people? Do you believe that we should make an effort to restore that ancient knowledge and uphold the concept of a divine will shaping human destiny? This book is about the grand redemptive scheme by which the whole human race is to achieve social, political and spiritual maturity, written by a man whose path took him initially into office in the Church of Ireland. But his insistence on independently seeking out truth to his own satisfaction, and no longer accepting truth as handed down by the church, brought him into conflict with his ecclesiastical employers and eventually lead to his resignation from the Church. His search led him to a destination that some call heretical but which a growing number throughout the world call truth. <br />No longer shackled by convention, the author puts information together into a new mosaic that each religion is not the one and only &quot;real' truth as their religious leaders proclaim, but part of a continuing revelation by God. This revelation started at Adam and has continued through the prophets and the founders of all major religions. Viewed in this way, all religions are conveying a somewhat similar message from God, but as a child moves from infancy through adolescence and into maturity, so is mankind moving towards maturity and is ready to receive progressively more of God's truth through a new messenger. These messengers provide information to the degree that humankind is ready to receive it. Townshend's concept allows us to break out of the box and understand God's grand strategy in a new and more satisfying way. It was his independent search for the truth that renewed Townshend spiritually and brought him into the Bahai Faith, founded about 150 years ago by Baha'u'llah. <br />The author opens his introduction with these words:<BR>&quot;This essay endeavors to follow the guidance of Baha'u'llah back to Christ and to let the light of the Gospel shine in its ancient purity upon the darkness of our time. It is conceived and written in the firm belief that any Christian who reaches the heart of the Gospel and understands the true exhaltation of Christ will soon discover the way that lies open, through Baha'u'llah, to the reunion of the Christian Churches, the re-Christianizing of the west, and the regeneration of the human race. The Bible bears witness that history in its essence is a spiritual thing and cannot rightly be understood except from a spiritual point of view. Realistic as the sacred narrative is, exposing freely all the weakness and wickedness of mankind, it maintains always the spiritual attitude.&quot; He goes on to point out that if we are to follow the example of the Bible in dealing with the problems of our time, we will regard first its spiritual aspect and will search out the spiritual issues that are at stake. We should be prepared to trace the cause of today's events far back to the time when spiritual energies were released. The Bible was given to humanity that we might use its wisdom to deal with the crises we face today - a time of unprecedented danger but also of unprecedented opportunity. Our problems, which world leaders are unable to solve, are due to our moral and spiritual decline. The Bible yields its true significance not to human learning as is commonly supposed, but to an open, unprejudiced mind, to a pure and devout spirit which seeks the truth for the love of God. The author argues that we cannot regard the words and deeds of mortal men as a standard for the true understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets. <br />We are warned that &quot;Be not satisfied with words but seek to understand the spiritual meaning hidden in the heart of the words. The Jews read the Old Testament night and day, memorizing its words and texts; yet without comprehending a single meaning or inner significance; for had they understood the real meaning of the Old Testament they would have become believers in his Holiness Christ, inasmuch as the Old Testament was revealed to prepare His coming. As the Jewish doctors and rabbis did not believe in His Holiness it is evident that they were ignorant of the real significance of the Old Testament. It is difficult to comprehend even the words of a philosopher; how much more difficult is it to understand the words of God.&quot; It is here that we come to the crux of the matter; how do we interpret the wisdom in the Bible? The learned ones in Christ's time misinterpreted the deeper meaning of the Bible and crucified Jesus rather than welcoming Him. It was only the pure in heart who could recognize Jesus for who and what he really was. Likewise today. People who really want to know the truth must be prepared to search it out with a pure heart and a spiritual mind and this is exactly what this book helps us to do with the aid of the early writings of the Bahai Faith. <br />If you are one of those people who seeks the deeper meaning of the Bible and are open to check out Townshend's interpretation of the grand redemptive scheme, then this book is for you. It will take you down unexplored paths and bring you to unexpected destinations. But that is what happens once you no longer accept the truths given on a platter from a young age and when you exercise your right and responsibility to confirm or discover the truth for yourself.	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R1R4FJV1PEF7IC	0883940000	514670338	Touch the Earth: A Self Portrait of Indian Existence	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Native American philosophy has much to teach us	The letter from Chief Seattle to the US President.. &quot;How can you buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the land? ...&quot; and the vision of Black Elk ...&quot;The sacred hoop of his people was only one of many hoops, all joined together to make one great circle, the great hoop of all peoples..&quot; brought home to me the fact that the Native American philosophy of living has so much to teach us. They were closely connected to the earth, loved and respected it, while we treat it with violence; they were closely connected to our universal Mother and seemed to truly understand humankind's place in the universe while we trust in our technology and the wealth it brings us. The Native Americans appeared to have lived their lives with their two natures - materialistic and spiritual - in harmony while we have over emphasized the material and neglected the spiritual. While we cannot turn the clock back and ride horses and live in tents - nor would we want to - but surely there must be some principles that they incorporated into their lives which we can discover and build into our lives to help redress the balance of our two natures. So I turned to this book to see if there is some Native American wisdom which would enrich my life. I was certainly encouraged by the Book of-the-Month Club comment on the back cover &quot;Simply but eloquently, the selections tell of the Indians' relationship with the earth, their kinship with all of nature's creatures, and their unity with the elements. They speak of the harmony that existed between the Indian and the land, a harmony that was disrupted as 'the hairy man from the east' encroached still further into their territory.&quot; and &quot;.. one cannot help but be struck anew by their wisdom and their prophetic vision...&quot;<br />I read this passage in the introduction: &quot;In this book, the Indians speak for themselves, of the quality of their life. The passages that make up the book have been taken from speeches of Indians living in all parts of the North American continent, between the 16th and 20th centuries. They speak with courtesy and respect of the land, of animals, of the objects which made up the territory in which they lived. They saw no virtue in imposing their will over their environment: private acquisition, almost without exception, was to them a way to poverty, not to riches. The meaning of their life was identified through their relationships with each other and their homelands - all of which was given depth and resonance by memory&quot; and understood that here in this volume I would find what I was looking for. Many of the passages reflect attempts by the Indians to offer their ideas to the whiteman but we responded by destroying their way of life and with it much of the wisdom we need today. We are indeed fortunate to have this collection to refer to. We cannot turn the clock back; we cannot undo the deeds of prior generations. But perhaps we can at least take the trouble to reflect on what these wise people were trying to teach our forebears and perhaps we will find some words of wisdom that will help us to live our lives with our two natures - materialistic and spiritual - more closely in balance.<br />If we fail to do this I fear that the prophecy in the introduction will come true. &quot;It is well understood that the only decent future for us who live in America now is through a rediscovery of our environment. We need to establish a right relationship with the land and its resources; otherwise, the destruction of the Indian will be followed by the destruction of nature; and in the destruction of nature will follow the destruction of ourselves.&quot;	2004-02-29
US	51116445	R2O1M1ORAWFOE1	085398008X	557561046	Thief in the Night, The Case of the Missing Millennium	Books	5	29	33	N	N	This book has vast implications for us all	This real-life mystery story started when Sears was given a book containing a story about people who had eagerly awaited the return of Christ during the 19th century. Being a newspaper reporter he found in the archives accounts in the 1840s of people preparing for the sudden appearance of Christ. Some were filled with fear and panic; others called on the world to repent; others cashed in their bank accounts or gave away their worldly possessions. Why did they all expect Christ at that particular time? This is the mystery that Sears set out to solve. <br />Armed with the writings of Professor E.G. Browne of Pembroke College, Cambridge and Professor Jowett of Balliol College, Oxford, the author started by researching the period 1830-1850 in greater depth, finding that it was a period when a great comet with a tail 108 million miles long dominated discussion, when awesome shooting stars and halo-like rings around the sun fueled speculation about the second coming. Zeal reached its climax in 1844 because Christ said that he would return when three things came to pass:<BR>- the Gospel would be preached everywhere on earth<BR>- the Jews would return to Israel<BR>- mankind would see the &quot;abomination of desolation&quot; foretold by the prophet Daniel.<BR>Sears investigated each very carefully and confirmed to his own satisfaction - and he provides all the evidence - that each of these promises had been fulfilled in 1844. <br />It occurred to the author to apply a technique common in criminology that when evidence points to only one conclusion that proves false, you assume that the evidence is right but that you need to draw a different conclusion. Sears had a dozen different conclusions to check out and we accompany him as he investigates each of these - bringing us to the really exciting part of the book.<BR>  <BR>This book is well written, well researched, well documented and highly readable. He found that Jews were looking for a Jew, Christians for a Christian, blacks for a black, whites for a white, overlooking the clue given in the Bible that it would be a new religion. The Bible provided very clear prophecy regarding the coming of the Messiah, but the religious authorities at that time misinterpreted the information and crucified Jesus instead of welcoming him. History repeated itself as the religious authorities about 150 years ago misinterpreted the information and persecuted, exiled, and imprisoned the new savior. <br />This book has vast implications for us all. If in fact the author has found what all those people were seeking in 1844 and if you reach the same conclusions as the author, your life will never be the same again.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R2BV34P05U2KMI	055301367X	589715825	Seven Tomorrows	Books	5	7	7	N	N	a very valuable model	It is strange to think that we can choose our future in global terms, although we take it for granted in our individual and family life. In fact we seek as much control over our lives as we can, as we don't like being interrupted by unscheduled meetings, unannounced power cuts or breakdowns in public services. On a global basis we seem to accept major disruptions and our lack of control as a matter of course - as witnessed by the recent flooding and heat waves in Europe and other disasters around the world. But, as the authors tell us in this book written in 1982, we chose this particular future. It was a conscious selection. Perhaps we don't recognize it as such but a decision not to act is still a decision. Ask any insurer what has happened to natural disaster insurance claims and premiums since World War II and you will be told that they have gone through the roof. Once again, this was our choice. <br />The authors lay out the facts very clearly and outlined seven possible tomorrows. The book was a plea to our leaders and decision-makers to select the tomorrow they wanted and then to implement the required strategies to get us there. That we are in our present mess was a decision to carry on with business as usual and adopt a laissez faire approach - one of the tomorrows forecast. We are now reaping as we sowed. Are we wiser today that we were twenty years ago? If we think so then we should read this book because it provides a template that can be readily updated. Some doors to some futures may have closed while other more horrific ones may have opened but the message is the same  - we have choice in determining our future.<br />Hawken, Ogilvy and Schwartz start by pointing out that the problems and options encountered by humankind in recent decades require a rigorous and intelligent stance toward our fate. As the highest evolved species on the planet we have the capacity to invent and to choose a better way to live. There are about one hundred variables such asdesertification, demographics and resource distribution together with major driving trends - energy, climate, food, the economy and values - which are listed because they have the broadest effect on the greatest number of people. By putting all these into a matrix, removing incompatible relationships, seven scenarios were produced, any of which could have been made to happen if enough people made a big enough effort. It is virtually impossible for the world to evade the driving trends but uncertainties arise from such things as new technology (the Internet was not mentioned), war and its ramifications, mankind's response to information and the value system adopted. <br />Complications arise because everything is connected and establishing the causal chain for scenario projection becomes complex. A simple example is that the US, being a rich nation, bids up the price of oil, farmers up-river from Bangladesh use cow dung (formerly used as fuel) for crops, trees are cut for fuel, top soil erodes and Bangladesh is flooded, sweeping thousands to their death. That such actions, reactions and suffering stems from wasteful driving habits in the US is real but difficult to accept. Another complication is perception. After the 1929 crash all the factories, raw materials and workers remained in place but the elaborate tissue of our civilized life - promises, contracts, agreements - were based on perceptions and these had changed. When people believe a bank no longer deserves their trust, a run on the bank causes its collapse and confirms their worst fears. People's perception of the future plays an important role in determining the future.<br />The 1960s and 1970s witnessed many wild cards - low probability events that had a profound influence on society. Unfortunately, low probability events have high probability over time. 9/11/2001 is an example of a wildcard event which was on many lists but not high enough to budget for. The perception of a specific event or collection ofevents is highly variable depending upon where you stand on the world scene. Even twenty years ago the authors considered the growing gap between rich and poor a threat which could produce a wild card. Since then technology has strengthened the power of the individual and there is an increasing probability of wild card events affecting our lives.<br />The value of this book is that it provides a model that we can use today for deciding the future we want. If we are wiser today than twenty years ago we will agree on the future we want, plan how to get there and then have the courage to implement it. Only in this way will we wrest back some real control over our lives.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R9LFARM7H01CF	0060906111	114451046	A Guide for the Perplexed	Books	5	95	101	N	N	We all need to create our own map for living	Do you wonder whether humanity has the correct view of itself? Do you think that we need a radically different worldview? Do you think we need to awaken from our spiritual sloth? Are you interested to read the last words from a brilliant mind and unorthodox thinker to a muddled world - a world perplexed by the problems of its own making? This book by the author of &quot;Small is Beautiful&quot; received good reviews, such as &quot;The most exciting philosophical book for ages&quot; and in fact the author starts off with philosophical maps. At school he had been given a map of life and knowledge - how to get into the job market and make money basically - but without any of the markings which he considered to be of the utmost importance for the conduct of his life; he was perplexed until he realized that his perceptions were probably sound and it was the map that was not only incomplete but also basically unsound. He felt like he had been given a map of New York and told to find his way in Chicago. In due course, he came to the conclusion that the traditional map makers - those in authority, our teachers, our leaders - know nothing about what really matters in life and that they were quite unqualified for the task. From that moment he started to think for himself and piece together his own map of what is important that he should know and of how he should live his life. He found that with the ever more rigorous application of the scientific method the last remnants of ancient wisdom had been discarded in the name of objectivity. He decided to construct his own map based on four universal truths - the world; man and his equipment to meet the world; man's way of learning about the world; and what it means to live in the world.<br />Schumacher found that traditional wisdom handed down to us through the centuries distinguished between &quot;higher&quot; and &quot;lower&quot; things and levels of being but that this had been rejected because they were not subject to quantitative measurement. Thus the traditional map did not address the question &quot;What am I to do with my life?&quot; Without the qualitative concepts of higher and lower it was impossible to even think of guidelines for living that lead beyond individual or collective utilitarianism and selfishness. Without these qualitative concepts it is not possible to find out where everything has its proper legitimate place because nothing can be understood unless its level of being is fully taken into account. Many things are true at a low level of being but become absurd at a higher level and vice versa. <br />The author then moved on to reflect on levels of being and that his task was to look at the world and see it whole - what our ancestors referred to the great &quot;Chain of Being&quot;, beginning with the Divine. The great majority of mankind, throughout its known history, until very recently, has been convinced that the Chain of Being extends upwards beyond man. What is more, they considered this belief to be the most profound of all truths. A person fixed in the philosophy of materialistic scientism, denying the reality of the &quot;invisibles&quot; and confining his attention solely to what can be counted, measured and weighed lives in a very poor world - so poor in fact that he will experience it as a meaningless wasteland unfit for human habitation. It is self-awareness, constituting the difference between animal and man, that is a power of unlimited potential, a power that not only makes man human but gives him the possibility, even the need, to become superhuman. To be properly human you must go beyond the merely human. It is as though a book of great wisdom is given to a dog and to different people. To the dog, the book is nothing more than a colored object. To an illiterate it may be no more than pretty pictures; to a young and undeveloped mind it may be no more than words and sentences; to the superficial reader the book may be just a good story; but to the wisethe book may unlock the secrets of the universe. This is what Schumacher meant by self-awareness, of higher and lower. Man is capable of bringing the whole of the universe into his experience but what he will actually grasp depends on each persons Level of Being. The &quot;higher&quot; the person, the greater and richer is his or her world. Life is a magnificent symphony that only the higher can appreciate.<br />The author goes on to imagine a perfect being who is always and invariably exercising his power of self-awareness - his power of freedom - to the fullest degree, unmoved by any necessity. This would be a Divine Being, an almighty sovereign power, a perfect unity, where &quot;higher&quot; also means and implies &quot;more inner&quot;, &quot;more interior&quot;, &quot;deeper&quot;, &quot;more intimate&quot; and where &quot;lower&quot; means and implies &quot;more outer&quot;, &quot;more external&quot;, &quot;shallower&quot;, &quot;less intimate&quot;.   <br />If you have concluded that the philosophical map given to you when young did not equip you well for living in this world; if you have a gut feeling that moving beyond the &quot;lower&quot; and seeking the &quot;higher&quot; is what we are here in this world to do; if you feel that you have been concerned only with the measurable and have been missing out on the invisibles; if you feel that you have settled for an impoverished view of reality; if you have been struggling to make your own philosophical map because you were given a map that was inadequate or misleading; then this book by one of the wise men of the last century is a very good place to start.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R5EBQNW7DHUNM	0854871047	454066510	Quiet Mind	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Have this in your pocket or purse	This book is truly what it says on the jacket: &quot;A pocket book of White Eagle's sayings. The perfect companion of every soul on its spiritual journey.&quot; There are certain things that we need to be constantly reminded of, such as: &quot;By your love, by your belief in God's love, your belief in love itself, you can create the bridge across which we come to you&quot; or &quot;If you will be steadfast on the path to which your feet have been guided, you will find the treasure of life, a never-ending stream of help and healing and happiness. We, your brothers and guides, are on the road by your side. Not one of you stands alone. You have only to ask in simple trust, and you shall receive; whatever your need, it shall be supplied&quot;.  For this reason it is good to have a tiny book like this which easily fits into a pocket or purse and which can be pulled out when caught in a traffic jam or when waiting for someone. <br />This is a gem, full of wise saying, just a few sentences long, prepared to remind us how we will reach our true destination. It is divided into nine sections:<BR>The Master Soul is Constant<BR>      ..... Is Gentle, Loving, Kind<BR>      ..... Is Tolerant<BR>      ..... Is Calm, Quiet and Steady <BR>      ....  Is Strong to Serve<BR>      ....  Is Wise in Speech and Action<BR>      ....  Is a Tower of Strength and Light<BR>      ....  Bears no Resentment<BR>      ....  Is Patient, Trusting in God's Goodness and His Perfect Plan<br />A perfect gift to your self or for a loved one who is always on the go but who may need reminding that &quot;The secret of strength lies in the quiet mind.&quot;	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R1YBQ3EFH0K4QG	0761924221	481462857	Making Better Business Decisions: Understanding and Improving Critical Thinking and Problem Solving Skills	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You wll make better decisions if you read this book	An employee talked over a problem with his boss who explained the rational decision-making process only to be told that as this was a really serious problem it should involve instinct, intuition and gut reaction. We are bombarded with so much sensory information that it is impossible to pay attention to everything so our subconscious triggers a process of selective perception whereby we perceive that which looks familiar and which past experience leads us to expect. Thus we expect guys who wear black to do bad things and it is not surprising that sports teams with black uniforms receive more penalties than other teams; we expect drivers of red cars to speed and they get a higher number of traffic violations than drivers of cars of other colors. <br />This book introduces us to the rational decision process, stressing the thorough evaluation of all components of a decision, including correct identification of the problem, identifying and weighting the criteria, generating and evaluating alternative solutions, through implementation and follow-up. Biological factors influence our decision and although we possess a complex and powerful brain housing our thinking, planning, and judgmental abilities, we are subject to primitive emotional reactions; the stronger our emotional reaction the more likely that our cool and careful rationality will be overwhelmed to fulfill immediate desires which are against our long-term interests. Often we must decide between what we want to do and what we should do. The want side is impulsive, emotional and hotheaded while the should side is rational, levelheaded, thoughtful, and planning. How often is it that when the other fellow takes a long time he is slow but if I take a long time, I am thorough. Or if the other fellow doesn't do it he is lazy but when I don't do it, I am busy. Thus our emotional attachment to our beliefs creates a filter that screens all comments and actions in light of how they relate to our position. Facts that appear to be opposed to our beliefs are not ignored but they are held to a higher level of scrutiny than when we are not so heavily committed to a particular way of thinking. First impressions are often lasting ones. You are impressed by your newly hired subordinate from a top-notch business school despite dismal work performance. You have positively judged the employee, and it generally requires persuasive evidence to overturn what was initially believed to be true. <br />How the facts are presented plays an important role and the author outlines proposals for a factory that faces downsizing. You are emotionally swayed to different decisions depending on whether the proposal is framed as saving jobs or losing jobs because the emotional discomfort we experience from losing jobs is more extreme than positive feelings derived from saving jobs. When we see we have made a bad decision, we should take steps to cut our losses but we tend to throw good money after bad due to escalation of commitment. Human decision-makers are actually flawed thinkers but we can minimize inconsistencies if we become aware of our own biased thought processes. Understanding judgmental biases is the first step in improving our decision-making. Critical thinking requires that we be open-minded to new ideas and concepts, yet skeptical of everything we hear and believe. We have to uncover the truthfulness of the evidence and determine whether it agrees with affairs in the real world. We have to consider the source of information to determine trustworthiness and credibility. We have to be open to alternative solutions that might be simpler, more objective or more plausible. To the extent possible, we should test the facts to determine if the evidence can be confirmed. <br />Creativity in problem solving means doing things differently and is affected by resources of knowledge, expertise and technical information available; by the techniques we use; by our internal motivation such as interest, challengeor love for what we are doing; and by balance so that skills match opportunities. All are required for creativity to occur and the more we have of each the greater our creativity. It is best to use a 5-step process: problem identification, preparation, idea generation using the SCAMPER checklist, idea validation and verification. &quot;One of the most difficult aspects of creative problem solving is ensuring that we have defined the real problem. The time and energy spent on the creative process may produce a new and elegant idea, but that effort will be wasted if the solution fails to resolve the root problem. Therefore it is critical that we correctly identify a problem before we attempt to tackle it.&quot;<br />As I read the section on escalating commitment I could not help but reflect how the fate of the Concorde airliner would have been different if the author had been called in as an adviser in the early stages. It would be surprising if any decision-maker did not come away wiser from reading this book.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R2ZM5JLPEXD7DT	0854871063	556825147	Golden Harvest: How to Transform Your Life Through Love (Your Journey in the Light Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a great source of wisdom	Golden harvest contains the words of wisdom spoken by White Eagle through the mediumship of Grace Cooke. White Eagle speaks from a higher level of spiritual consciousness than we have attained, having reached that level after the same struggle that each of us must pass through. Based on the teachings of Jesus, White Eagle gives us knowledge and advice with love and compassion in full knowledge of the difficulties we have to deal with every day. Each of us is a child of God having within us the potential of Christhood. We must not devote too much time to material things but make our prime goal seeking the Kingdom of God. We are here on earth to gain spiritual awareness and God-consciousness. It is the act of living with our fellow man that brings us wisdom. We have to control and discipline our desires and emotions and to rise above the limited consciousness of our physical life. <br />If we are to serve we have to be able to withstand pressure and be well tested so we don't break down under stress. Each time we are tested and stand up to it, we advance along the path. Words alone are not enough; we need to provide practical service to humanity even if it means dealing with a person to whom we are not drawn. We have to learn to live as a center of love, compassion and good will to all creatures and to keep our thoughts good, constructive and loving. We have to control our thoughts and emotions. Many times we will face injustice but God has led us there for a purpose. In all situations we are challenged to show love. Without the temptations and challenges that life brings, the spirit of Christ in us could never develop. Making our lives easier would prevent us learning lessons. <br />Our thoughts should always be positive because what we think today we will become tomorrow. If we want a better world, we must start to create it now. We can influence countless lives if we hold firmly to the right course. We should not look for our reward in material and earthly terms but in spiritual terms. Every time we think lovingly, kindly, and constructively and help our fellow man, we progress along the path of love and sow good karma. We have to learn spiritual law by right living, right thinking and right action. We must be on the look out for the meaning behind every event and welcome every experience. <br />When the soul is still and peaceful we can hear the voice within the heart. To hear it, learn to be still. This deep inner peace is the source of all our strength and guidance. From the heart of peace comes right action but we must separate ourselves from worldly thoughts and desires. Nothing but our own thoughts and feelings can separate us from Him. Our life on earth is over burdened with activity. We must learn to become aware of the inner life, the place of spirit deep within us. When you go to sleep at night let your last thought be of praise and thankfulness to God. Keep your thoughts always fixed upon the good, the true, the beautiful God-life. We are careless with our thoughts in the belief that we can hide them from others. But in the realms of spirit there is no hiding of thoughts. All thoughts are known so keep them pure. Whatever problem lies before you can be solved by love; the way to work is always by love and never by force in any shape or form. No man must force his own individual views on other men. To love them is the only way to win them. <br />If these words strike a chord in your heart, with this book you will draw on a source of great wisdom.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R3QD3WPQYQ5M38	2020054701	570590529	Good work	Books	5	14	15	N	N	a book well worth reading	Dr. Schumacher, author of &quot;Small is Beautiful&quot; and &quot;A Guide for the Perplexed&quot;, was one of the wise men of the last fifty years. In this collection of six talks given in America during the mid-1970s one of his themes is that the purpose of work is threefold: to produce necessary and useful goods and services; to enable us to use and perfect our gifts and skills; and to collaborate with other people so as to liberate ourselves from our inborn egocentricity. A job in which there is no personal satisfaction destroys the soul. He maintained that we need a new worldview - a new paradigm - and his 1962 report for the government of India proposed using small, simple tools and equipment with low capital cost and low impact on the environment was the start of the new paradigm. Considering the centrality of work in human life, the choice of technology is critical. Poor countries need intermediate technologies to ensure that the rural masses can work themselves out of poverty and thus raise their standard of living. <br />While Chief Economist at the National Coal Board, Schumacher devoted time to three projects which became his great passion. The first was the Soil Association to develop organic farming. The second was the Scott Bader company which had no owners or employees - only co-owners and co-employees. The third was his new paradigm - intermediate technology. In one of his essays the author provides helpful insights: &quot;The third organization I am concerned with is one that I started with a handful of friends in 1965: the Intermediate Technology Development Group. Now you have the company, charity status, no money, maybe somebody has let you share an office, but what do you want to do? You want to create and systematize this intermediate technology, but how do you set about doing this? All I can say at this early stage is, beware of the planners. There are all sorts of impatient people who will say, you must have a five-year plan and a ten-year plan. Quite useless. You must realize your nonknowledge, what you don't know. The inner attitude if you think you know is quite different from the attitude when you know you don't know. You're much more observant, more alert. And it happened that we heard that a British trade mission was going to Nigeria, and we thought, my goodness, what are they going to flog in Nigeria? Certainly not the stuff the Nigerians really need. What if we made, very rapidly, a catalogue of hand- and animal-propelled agricultural equipment obtainable in Britain? We had only a few weeks to do it, and under this pressure we found that our society is very highly organized. You have only to find out how to touch the network; the network already exists. When the mission went to Nigeria, they were most astonished. This thing was torn out of their hands by people who said, 'For the first time you bring us something that is of interest.'&quot;<br />Most of what Schumacher had to say thirty years ago is just as valid today. He had a very perceptive mind and a lifetime of experience in a big industry. That is what turned him off the western style of development and doing business. With this book you can have the ideas of a very wise, practical and foresighted person who spent his later years thinking out of the box and fighting the system that he had grown to abhor. Many of his ideas were before their time and only in recent years has the world caught up. This is an author whose books are certainly worth reading.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R24RVT51VSNS1U	0854871225	979096089	Jesus, Teacher and Healer	Books	5	25	26	N	N	illness is related to disharmony	When a work colleague had to fly to the UK for specialized medical treatment I turned to  &quot;Jesus Teacher and Healer&quot; and in particular chapter IV &quot;The Great Healer&quot;. This book reminds us that Jesus healed both the sick body and the troubled mind. If we are troubled we can still call on Jesus who will clothe us or our loved one in love. If we bring our burden to the Great Healer, talk to the Healer as a friend and listen to the response in our heart, we will be comforted and given strength. We will know that our loved one is being cared for by a greater love and a stronger power than our own. We should stop worrying about physical cares and material anxieties and concentrate on the sweet, gentle emotion of love; if we train ourselves to think in terms of love every moment of life, we will find that unconsciously a beautiful healing will take place. There is only one true source from which healing power flows and Jesus is the head of the healing ray. <br />Sometimes our bodies are out of harmony and then we need the light of Christ. When the body is sick it is in some way lacking the light; all disease will in due time be traced back to this lack, to the unconscious disharmony in the soul. There is a hold-up in the inflow of the light. When man understands his whole being, when he understands the working of his higher self so that body and spirit are functioning harmoniously, then the physical body will lose its diseased state. When we lay aside all mental anguish and turn within to that place of light, that well of intuition and spiritual sensitivity, then we become aware of the invisible company of healers and the power that they bring.<br />All ills come to help the soul to understand and to acquire wisdom. Karma is the opportunity given to each soul to learn wisdom and the wondrous love of God. God does not send us pain and suffering but the law of God says that inharmony in the soul sometimes has to work out through the physical body. It is inthis way that the soul gains a deeper consciousness of the power of God. All life's experiences have one object - to gradually purify, to bring light into the whole being and to raise the mortal to the immortal. If we are able to learn and accept this then we have opened the door to those heights of spiritual glory that the saints and the illumined ones have been able to enjoy. We are children of God and within us is the God-power. It is the development of our soul that is the purpose of life and which will make us perfectly whole.<br />We draw to ourselves the conditions we think about so if we dwell on sickness, limitation, poverty or fear we set up a vibration which attracts these very conditions. We must train ourselves to set up a vibration of love, light, hope, confidence, and peace because it is God's will that we should create the kingdom of heaven about us. True prayer - complete surrender of the soul to God's will - sets up a vibration in the soul which goes right to the source of supply. God's will is that our bodies should be healthy, holy and able to enjoy all the good things of life. In the process we expand our little self into our great self or the Christ self. The first requirement for healing is to leave aside all disturbances created by the physical and material life and seek the innermost sanctuary where all is peace. Then the healing forces truly enter into the soul and body.<br />If you suspect that illness might be related to disharmony, then you will find this book full of valuable information.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R2WWPS79MDXXMK	0006253334	731305419	Mother Teresa: Her People and Her Work	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Learn why she is held in such high esteem	With the news from Rome that we may see Mother Teresa recognized as a saint during our lifetime, I wanted to find out why. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi certainly held her in high esteem as witnessed by her foreword written in 1975: &quot;How appropriate that this book should begin with St. Francis' beautiful and well-loved prayer. For it so eloquently epitomizes the gentleness, the love and the compassion that radiate from Mother Teresa's tiny person. Who else in this wide world reaches out to the friendless and the needy so naturally, so simply, so effectively? Tagore wrote &quot;there rest Thy feet where live the poorest, and lowliest, and lost.&quot; That is where Mother Teresa is to be found - with no thought of, or slightest discrimination between color or creed, language or country. She lives the truth that prayer is devotion, prayer is service. Service is her concern, her religion, her redemption. To meet her is to feel utterly humble, to sense the power of tenderness, the strength of love.&quot;<br />This book is a collection of eyewitness accounts from Mother Teresa's Co-workers during the early years and is a very helpful historical record of how Mother Teresa implemented her goals: to love and serve the poor and to see Jesus in everyone. Desmond Doig has given us a wonderful insight into Mother Teresa through the words of people who knew her well.<br />Father Henry was a Belgian missionary who landed in India in 1938, never to return. He tells us that: &quot;Mother has a magic in her. There was this beggar woman who came to Mother for help. She was given a good feed and slept in Mother Teresa's bed. Mother called her 'Granny'&quot;. <br />Sister Agnes was Mother Teresa's first postulant. &quot;Nowadays we are being helped by a lot of organizations, but in the beginning we had none of these. When we started Mother used to bring a tin and announce in the parish, &quot;Don't throw away your food.&quot; The Sisters used to go out with similar tins and collectleftovers and give them to the poor people. We used to go from house to house. You can die of disease, but to die bit by bit, starving, there cannot be anything worse than that. Mother is so humble. Even when she goes on planes she asks for whatever food is left over.&quot;<BR> <BR>Sister Bernard told the author: &quot;Ours was a different kind of work altogether, among people neither valued nor respected in society. That we should spend our time and our lives working for the poorest, working with lepers ... how could they understand? We realized that there were a lot of undernourished children and poor dying people that the hospitals could do nothing for. How many can they take? And besides, medicine alone is not enough. We just used to try and bring them relief on the streets. When they died we used to inform the police. For five years we did that, then Mother realized we had to open a home.&quot; <br />Perhaps the biggest lesson we can learn from this book is summed up in Mother Teresa's own words: &quot;Prayer without action is no prayer at all.&quot; Perhaps that is why she was held in such high esteem. Perhaps that is why she will probably be recognized as a saint.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R39SI721URYGQL	0853984026	894382604	Fire and Gold: Benefitting from Life's Tests	Books	5	14	14	N	N	helps us to ask the right questions	If you believe that humans have two natures - the materialistic and the spiritual; if you believe that we have given too much attention to the materialistic side of our nature and neglected the spiritual side and as a result we are living unbalanced lives; if you suspect that there is a deeper reason why we experience testing situations and are open to the thought that these trials are actually a help on our spiritual journey; if you would like to have an explanation how all these things come together into a comprehensive, understandable plan, then this book has been written for you as it is a selection of writings on the purpose and source of the tests  that come to us and to our society, and how to overcome them. The author believes that if we better understand the reasons why we are tested we will be able to draw comfort, inner peace and spiritual upliftment as we travel our path and meet these tests. The author believes that life is a series of tests and that by successfully passing through them we are strengthened and made ready for the next stage in our development. The author believes that God is a God of love and that everything that happens to us is part of God's grand plan to help us on our way. The author believes that if we successfully pass through the fire we will be turned into gold and we will have passed the ultimate test for being in this world.<br />We are told that &quot;Basic to an understanding of the subject of tests and trials is an understanding of the nature and purpose of life&quot; and that &quot;The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be, to enable him to know his Creator and to attain to His Presence.&quot; The time we spend on this earth is a period of preparation for our souls, a time to develop virtues and perfections in order to better know and draw closer to our Creator; it is in acquiring qualities such as love, mercy, patience and fortitude that we are able to understand the Creator. If our patience is not continually tested, how can we know that when our patience is given the ultimate test we will be ready and not break down under the stress? The physical world is a place of preparation and growth - a workshop where we have the opportunity to develop virtues. We cannot control the challenges, but we can control our response. The more we strive to exhibit virtues at testing times, the more we develop spiritually. The challenge of tests is to use them to grow rather than complaining; our suffering is an opportunity to grow. It is only when our suffering is behind us that we become aware of its usefulness. It is only when we have passed through the fire that we truly understand God's love for us and that His care and protection are strong and unending.   <br />These passages rang true: &quot;While a man is happy he may forget his God; but when grief comes and sorrows overwhelm him, then will he remember his Father who is in Heaven, and who is able to deliver him from his humiliations. Men who suffer not, attain no perfection. The plant most pruned by the gardeners is that one which, when the summer comes, will have the most beautiful blossoms and the most abundant fruit&quot; and &quot;A soldier is no good general until he has been in the front of the fiercest battle and has received the deepest wounds.&quot;<br />While it may be difficult at a time of crisis to accept the wisdom of this passage, ultimately, I think that we have to accept it: &quot;Were it not for tests, pure gold could not be distinguished from the impure. Were it not for tests, the courageous could not be separated from the cowardly. Were it not for tests, the people of faithfulness could not be known from the disloyal. Were it not for tests the intellectuals and the faculties of the scholars in great colleges would not develop. Were it not for tests, sparking gems could not be known from the worthless pebbles. Were it not for tests, nothing would progress in this contingent world.&quot;<br />In addressing the issue of tests and challenges we are forced to address many other important issues such as the reason why we have been given the privilege of life on this planet. At some point in our sojourn here, we need to address these issues. This is a very good book to help us ask the right questions and to help us find the answers.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	RX6ZX2FR2N9Z1	0854870202	355292089	Path of the Soul	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Provides a grater understanding of the gospels	Having read a number of White Eagle's books, I have found all to be of pure intent, based on love and with words that could have been spoken by Jesus. White Eagle describes the nature of our soul in these words: &quot;Confusion still exists concerning the nature and functions of the soul and also of the spirit of man. Once spirit comes down to dwell in the flesh it starts to create what is called soul, for soul is that part of man's being which is built up through experiences undergone by the tender inner self of man during incarnation. Soul can be further described as the feminine aspect of man's life, the mother-principle ...  the first principle being divine will, the father or masculine aspect.&quot; We are told that our soul separates from God so that it may grow. Our biggest challenge and test in this life is to learn love. It is not what others or life do to us but how we react that is important. Our reaction must always be based on love.<br />The book is full of quotes from the Gospels, with heavy emphasis on St. John, such as: &quot;The gospel of Saint John contains the truth of spiritual unfoldment from beginning to end and all the ancient wisdom, which every living soul is consciously, or unconsciously seeking. It gives new understanding of the value of every event, which makes up our everyday life and provides the vision, power, and wisdom to bring such knowledge through into our life on earth. Your life should be so directed and influenced by it that this knowledge radiates not only through your character but also through your body. If we study the Gospel of St. John with increasing understanding, we will start to express divine truth in daily life.&quot;<br />&quot;We may believe that sorrow will break us and question how a God of love can send such things, but God's love is so much greater than our human conception of love. God sends these happenings to strengthen the soul and to meet all experiences with tranquillity of spirit, never doubting that all is for its eventual good. Job underwent all kinds of sorrows but still held fast to the love of God and passed the test. He knew that whatever happened was something he deserved or which had come to test him for his final initiation. God sends us suffering only out of love; the soul is strengthened and through practice learns to stand unmoved. Nothing matters so long as you know that God or Christ is within you.&quot;<br />For those who seek a greater understanding of the Gospels and the path of the soul, this book will be very helpful.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	RM6YWC7MAZTQ2	0854870180	503638879	Morning Light On The Spiritual Path (Living in the light)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	for those who are confused as to their purpose in life	White Eagle has been speaking through the mediumship of Grace Cooke for more than fifty years. Based on the teachings of Jesus with a strong emphasis on the Gospel of St. John, &quot;Morning Light&quot; brings us knowledge of the God within and helps us to express our god-like nature in everyday life. We are told that: &quot;It has been the privilege of the Brotherhood in all ages to transmit from century to century and from race to race, the secret heritage, the ancient wisdom, the inner truths which God and nature have revealed to man. Here, the fruit of human experience, the secret methods of unfoldment of the spiritual and physical personality of individual beings, the rituals, laws, principles and methods of self-mastery, of solving life's problems, of discovering the great truths - here have these been fostered and taught to the few. Always the few in every race, in every land and in every time have been protectors of this heritage. These few have been known by various names, such as the Essenes, the Therapeutae, the Knights of the Temple, the Hermetic Brothers, the Alchemists, and the Martinists.  They have formed secret lodges where they have taught humble students under various names and symbols. The work of the Great White Brotherhood has gone forward, even to this very hour. Every history of civilization reveals the powerful good accomplished by such secret schools; they have ever been tolerant in their religious views, kindly and merciful in their political attitudes, free from entanglements, and always devoted to the service of mankind for the greater glory of God.&quot;<br />There are many helpful passages such as:<br />&quot;For the outer world is in turmoil, the minds of men agitated by fear, distrust, anger, resentment, and man can find no answer to his problems, because instead of looking to the Source of absolute wisdom, he endeavors to answer all questions purely with his mental or intellectual powers, or else on the material level of life.&quot;<br />&quot;It is essential that man should discover that spiritual part, and set himself to develop it. There are many schools of teaching, but only one central truth of which all else is but a part, and this truth is pure spirit. You are here on earth to develop your spiritual self, which is in truth the Son of God, the Christ Being, lying buried beneath many coverings, physical, mental and emotional.&quot;<br />&quot;Within you is something more precious, more beautiful, more wonderful than man has ever conceived. You hear stories of a manifestation of that glory through the saints or great ones; you see them through the radiance of the divine life. You think to worship them but never to draw near to these great ones. You worship from afar instead of taking hold of your self and working to perfect your own character and your own soul, so that they become fitted for the divine spirit to manifest through you to your fellow creatures. Yet this is the purpose of life.&quot; <br />&quot;In the new Aquarian age, towards which man is advancing, there will be a stimulation of both the spiritual and material aspects of man. You have a special mission or charge; you have come to earth for a special purpose, not only to develop your own divine consciousness, but also as a pioneer to serve the coming age. Truly serve your fellows. For when once a soul learns to recognize and obey spiritual laws, it will find itself following a spiritual pathway that seems to be already opened and prepared for it. It takes an angel to recognize an angel, a god to recognize a god; so until man has developed the necessary qualities within himself, he remains unconscious of the presence of angels or of gods.&quot;<br />For those who are confused as to their purpose in life, this book could be very helpful.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R3I3M6NEMPEXMX	0060908432	720686645	Schumacher Lectures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	These are people forging a new world view	Dr. Schumacher, author of &quot;Small is Beautiful&quot; died in 1977 but supporters were not prepared to let his memory die as he will go down in history as one of the outstanding thinkers of the 20th century. His &quot;A Guide for the Perplexed&quot; told us that our traditional philosophical map makers pass to us a map of life that is not only inaccurate and misleading but without reference to any of the really important matters such as what we should do with our life. Schumacher's essay &quot;Buddhist Economics&quot; threw mud on convention by saying that it is not the Third World which should learn about the high technology of the west, but rather that the west should learn from the spiritual perception of the east. One observer said of Schumacher; &quot;His influence was in his presence which was magnificent, his character, which one can only describe as loveable, his rock-like common sense, his freshness of approach and constant probing into new realms of thought and new ideas. I don't believe anyone ever listened to him talk without coming under his spell. No matter how inimical an audience was to his ideas it could not listen to him without considering those ideas. He addressed, directly, probably tens of thousands of people in Europe and America and Australia - some of them the most influential in the world. He affected them all, every one of them.&quot; <br />Editor Satish Kumar said in his introduction: &quot;The challenge E. F. Schumacher has left for us to meet is not to stop at the generalities of the goodness in 'small', but to take the concept in concrete terms and see how, in practice, small is workable and possible in health, in education, in agriculture, in commerce and industry. One danger we face in this world of specialization is that we tend to take only one aspect or one dimension of reality and think of it as total reality ... Therefore it is an apt tribute to Fritz Schumacher that we have six lectures, and two shorter papers, which individually and collectively represent the totality - the holistic vision. Here we have the vision of R. D. Laing, whose ideas and experiences of reality are in total harmony with the external realities of our planet. In the same way, the concerns of Amory Lovins for soft energy and Ivan Illich's concerns for deschooling, medical nemesis and conviviality touch the core of personal, social and cosmic existence. Similarly, John Michel's plea to take a long view of history and not get hooked on Darwin, Fritjof Capra's call to liberate ourselves from the Newtonian past, and  Edward de Bono's warning to guard against straight-jacket thinking all form part of that same holistic vision. What is the sign of a great man? A person whose head is high above in the clouds, whose vision can reach the ultimate reality, but at the same time whose feet are grounded in the soil of intimate experience, who is practical, simple and able to communicate with people of every kind. E. F. Schumacher was one such great man.&quot;<br />Man has two natures - the materialistic and spiritual. We are not unique today in over-emphasizing the material and neglecting the spiritual as John Michell points out in 'The Ideal World-View': &quot;'The earth is not a dead body, but is inhabited by a spirit that is its life and soul. All created things, minerals included, drew their strength from the earth spirit. This spirit is life, it is nourished by the stars and it gives nourishment to all living things it shelters in its womb. Through the spirit received from on high, the earth hatches the minerals in her womb as the mother her unborn child.' Those were the words of a medieval alchemist, initiate and philosopher, but they might have been spoken by a shaman or elder of a traditional society in any continent on earth. In civilized times when philosophy becomes detached from experience, there are, as we know, occasional outbreaks of the mechanical universe idea. Epicurus tried it out in ancient Greece, and we ourselves are still plagued by bits and pieces from the Newtonian mechanism; but as Schopenhauer put it, 'This fundamental error (materialism) .. raises its head from time to time afresh, until universal indignation compels it to hide itself once more.'&quot;  <br />By decision we can make the world that best suits our interests. People justify their activities at any particular time by making a cosmology that reflects their own particular ideas and obsessions. No society which is based entirely on rational or single-minded principles can endure for any great length of time. Although these lectures were given more than twenty years ago, they are as relevant today as they were when given. Most of the lecturers have gone on to make significant contributions in their fields and are still active. These are people who have been willing to think out of the box and forge a new world view. We should listen to these people who are forging the new paradigm.	2004-02-27
US	51116445	R3MZA46RJY64WU	0671764152	779955977	Managing a Non-Profit Organization	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great deal of wisdom to help your organisation	In the 1970s Abbott Academy was considered one of the top institutions in the country, with a reputation that a student had a passport to success in college and later life. In the 1980s the school's fortunes changed with fewer applications, fewer students enrolling, college admissions less predictable and budget deficits leading to invasion of endowment. Correct diagnosis of the problem would have included;<br />- identifying the school's constituencies and monitoring their changing characteristics and needs<br />- changing the program to meet the needs of its constituents<br />- determining the schools strengths and weaknesses in relation to the competition and its perceived value in the community<br />- developing a sensible pricing strategy<br />- responding to the changing environment<br />- developing a proper image and promoting the institution correctly<br />In the nonprofit sector marketing is the engineering of satisfaction among a variety of groups including users, funders, trustees, regulators and others who can influence the success of the organization such as the media and general public. A successful marketing strategy allows organizations to accomplish their missions, meet their program goals and achieve long-term financial stability by focusing on the needs of their multiple constituents and satisfying their needs. Different strategies must be developed for different groups but Abbott had not even identified all its key constituencies, addressing itself only to students while neglecting parents, alumni, support groups including potential donors, college representatives, potential students, minority representatives, faculty, and trustees; when fortunes began to wane there was no loyal group to turn to for help. Abbott was unable to meet one of the great challenges that faces many nonprofits - the challenge of identifying each of its constituent groups clearly and accurately and developing separate, appropriate and effective strategies to satisfy eachone.<br />Image is the sum total of beliefs, ideas and impressions that people have of an organization and the programs, services and products that it offers. In the non-profit world a strong, positive image is critical to gaining broad community support and it can change rapidly. It is particularly difficult when an organization's positive image is eroding slowly and imperceptibly, particularly if trustees and staff believe it is flourishing and no one in the institution understands what is happening. Image can be flourishing in one area and deteriorating in another. Because they serve multiple constituencies, nonprofits must develop the proper image for each one. This often involves projecting different aspects of the organization and its program to different audiences.<br />Had Abbott asked its constituents it would have discovered that its product was no longer competitive in the secondary-school market place. It failed to promote itself, failed to realize that its price was no longer related to its perceived value, and failed to note that its future clientele was locating in different parts of the city.<br />A nonprofit must have all the facts on how well it stacks up against the competition, how it is perceived in the community, how its programs, activities and products are regarded and how it might command a bigger share of loyalty from its customers, clients, funders or other constituents.<br />If this story sounds familiar this book will be very helpful to you. It will help you understand your organization by asking searching questions such as &quot;Has your mission statement been reviewed within the last five years?&quot; and &quot;Who are your constituents? Are they well represented? Are they well served?&quot; and &quot;Has there been a formal test for organized abandonment within the last decade or do you propose to become progressively more irrelevant to the community you set out to serve?&quot; and &quot;What criteria have been developed to evaluate the continued relevance and appropriateness of your organization's mission and activities?&quot; and &quot;How much would people suffer if you went out of business?&quot; and &quot;Have the trustees given some thought as to how they will recruit and train a new chief executive when the time comes?&quot; and &quot;Is there a process that ensures that appropriately qualified people become officers in your organization?&quot; and &quot; Has your board engaged in a comprehensive long-range planning process within the last five years? Does your board approve specific goals and long-range objectives each year?&quot; and &quot;Is the chief executive skilled in personnel work and is there a system that ensures that each job will be filled by the best possible candidate?&quot; and &quot;Are the tasks appropriately distributed among salaried staff, volunteers, independent contractors and outside providers?&quot; and &quot;Have you found effective ways to identify, recruit, orient, motivate and recognize the work of volunteers?&quot; and &quot;What activities does your organization do less well? Should they be dropped? If not, how can they be made more successful?&quot;<br />In addition, this book helps you to understand the ten commandments of fundraising, the six levels of planning, and managing information.<br />If you are the least bit uneasy about how well your nonprofit is making out, you will find a great deal of wisdom to help you identify the root of the problem and the cure.	2004-02-01
US	51116445	RW90J4VH25EST	0853981426	503731479	The Imperishable Dominion : The Baha'i Faith and the Future of Mankind	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A good introduction to progressive revelation of religion	As a chief prosecutor in a District Court in Germany, Dr. Schaefer is confronted daily with social upheaval, the disintegration of our value system and the moral decay of society. He believes that our crisis is due to our loss of purpose in life and the loss of the highest values and agrees with Erich Fromm and Daniel Bell who state that mankind has no future unless it acquires a new religious consciousness. The teachings of all religions claim that man has both his origin and destiny in God; man is a citizen of two worlds - one immanent and the other transcendent. Ethics has always had its basis in religion. Religion defines priorities and translates values into standards of behavior and by educating the younger generation keeps those values alive in the consciousness of society. Without a religious base, moral conduct and values, without which society cannot be stable, are degraded to the point where they are no longer believed and may even be criticized or negated. <br />That religion is necessary and indispensable to both the individual and society helps us to understand the problem. In terms of the solution, the author believes that man has only one choice; a new world view on solidarity and brotherly commitment that integrates all peoples and all nations into a unified whole. But the great religions, encumbered by claims of being the sole possessor of the truth and burdened by their history of conflict and rivalry, are not capable of creating such a unifying idea. How can they convince the world that it should unify when they themselves are so fragmented and fail to be united even though the common thread of all religions is &quot;Do unto others as you would have others do unto you&quot;? Either the established religions must have the renewing power to break out of their rigid forms, return to the simple truths of their founders and overcome skepticism caused largely by the religious leaders themselves or something new must fill the vacuum. <br />Referring toreligious texts, Schaefer tells us about progressive revelation and the unity of religions starting 6000 years ago with Adam. The Qur'an reports that God sent messengers to all peoples and that He made known His will and His truth through them. Noah, Abraham, Moses, Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, Christ, Muhammed are the central figures of the Adamic cycle. Every single one of these manifestations introduced teachings and commandments that were the ultimate moral standard both for the individual and for the society of the particular culture. All religions are included in the history of religious salvation; all have their origin in God but are different reflections of the same truth. Religion is not static but dynamic. With each revelation a new force is released into the world which transforms and integrates, creating a new kind of person, a new order, a new culture. Every revelation gives mankind a new impulse but it is used up, because religion, like all living things, is subject to deterioration; a new outpouring of the spirit and a renewal of the religion of God are necessary from age to age. Man's receptivity and spiritual comprehensions differ from age to age and divine revelation takes this into account. Just as we cannot accept the full sun all at once, so man could not accept God's complete truth in a single revelation. Every age requires a fresh measure of the light of God; every divine revelation has been sent in a manner befitting the circumstances of the age in which it appeared.  <br />All religions expect a promised one and the concept of a herald who precedes the world savior is also quite common. Many calculated the day of return to be around 1850 and gathered in the Middle East to greet the returning king but there was great disappointment when Christ did not reappear as expected. These Messianic expectations were not only rampant in Christianity but also in Judaism and Islam. In the city of Shiraz in Southern Persia a 25-year-old merchant of the nameof Ali Muhammad declared himself the awaited herald, and assumed the spiritual name of the &quot;Bab&quot; meaning the &quot;Gate&quot;. This marked the birth of the Bahai Revelation, the pivotal points of which are the belief in a progressive, recurring divine revelation and the unity of all religions. Much opposition was aroused within the established clergy leading to 20,000 martyrs dying in the bloody persecution that followed. Baha'u'llah, the central figure of the Bahai faith, was banished to Baghdad in 1852 because he was a follower of the Bab and in 1863 he revealed himself as the promised One of all religions. <br />This book certainly gives the reader who is open to the concept of progressive revelation and the unity of religions much food for thought.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2P8CF5TGZ982O	0853980055	515484210	Christ and Bah'u'llh	Books	5	14	14	N	N	If you are seeking religious truth read this book	George Townshend served as Canon of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin when he learned about Baha'u'llah and the Bahai Faith, starting a traumatic journey in search of religious truth which put him in disfavor with the church establishment and led to the resignation of his Orders after 40 years. In all revealed world religions the coming of the Kingdom is identified with the appearance of the Supreme World Redeemer, the Lord of Hosts, the returned Christ, the Qa'im, the new Buddha and about 1850 Baha'u'llah announced that he was this redeemer and the bearer of God's message to modern man. Ignored by the kings and rulers whom he addressed, he died in the Holy Land in 1892, an exile and captive of the Turks. Today there are followers of the Bahai Faith in every nation on earth. Townshend was particularly interested in that part of the Lord's prayer &quot;Thy Kingdom come&quot; and investigated whether Baha'u'llah was in fact the returned Christ. He found that a large number of people gathered in the Middle East in the 1840s waiting for Christ's return, but in vain as they overlooked an important clue in the Bible.  'Christ and Baha'u'llah' is the story of his investigation and in 1957 he decided to put his findings in book form to make it easier for others to conduct their own investigation.<br />Townshend starts the chapter on &quot;The False Prophets&quot; with these words: &quot;As Jesus had prophesied, the false prophets contrived to change the essential meaning of the Gospel so that it became quite different from that which the Bible recorded or Jesus taught. It has long been generally believed that Jesus Christ was a unique incarnation of God such as had never before appeared in religious history and would never appear again. This tenet made the acceptance of any later Prophet impossible to a Christian. Yet there is nothing in Christ's statements, as recorded in the Gospels, to support this view, and it was not generally held during his lifetime.&quot;<br />Three chapters discuss Muhammad, but I found these excerpts helpful in understanding the relationship between religions. &quot;Muhammad was already about 40 years old when he began to teach ethical principles similar to those in the Old Testament and to proclaim the succession of the prophets, including His own succession to Jesus Christ, whose Divinity and whose Gospel he called His believers to accept. But after a few years he found Himself forced by severe and continuous persecution to leave his native town for Medina where he at once began the execution of the real mission of His life, the building of a spiritual nation.&quot; And &quot;To the Christian Muhammad showed the greatest kindness, insisting that all Muslims should fully accept both Jesus Christ and His Gospel, and assuring them in the Qur'am (Sura 5 verse 85) that they would find the Christians nearest of all men to them in affection, He took them under his protection.&quot;<br />If you are uncomfortable about the religious truths that have been handed to you; if you are uncomfortable that religious friendship has turned into religious rivalry; if you are open to learn about the evidence that convinced Townshend that Baha'u'llah is the returned Christ, this is a good book to study.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R21UUA87ZZNLWW	0853982996	893393144	Hinduism and the Baha'i Faith	Books	5	5	5	N	N	People from all religions will profit from this book	All religions have as their foundation stone the Golden Rule which in Christianity is expressed as &quot;Do unto others as you would have others do unto you&quot;. In Hinduism the Golden Rule is expressed as: &quot;This is the sum of duty: do naught to others that which if done to thee would cause pain&quot; while the Bahai Faith expresses it as: &quot;Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself.&quot; If we are to prevent religious rivalry progressing to religious war it is important that we learn about other religions and try to identify and emphasize our common heritage rather than highlight our differences. While &quot;Hinduism and the Bahai Faith&quot; has been written as an introduction to the Bahai Faith to those of the Hindu tradition, it is helpful for those of other religions who wish to gain an insight into both religions and who may, perhaps, seek to identify areas of similarity with their own religion.<br />Hinduism is not merely a religion, it is a collection of religious traditions that have evolved to represent a wide variety of views about most matters while the pivotal points of the Bahai Faith are the belief in a progressive, recurring divine revelation and the unity of all religions. The Qur'an tells us that God sent messengers to all peoples and that He made known His will and His truth through Noah, Abraham, Moses, Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, Christ, and Muhammed. All religions have their origin in God and are different reflections of the same truth. As every age requires a fresh measure of the light of God, every divine revelation has been sent in a manner befitting the circumstances of the age in which it appeared. The Lord Krishna talks about progressive revelation in these words: &quot;Whenever there is a decline in righteousness, O Bharat, and the rise of irreligion, it is then that I send forth My righteousness. I manifest myself from age to age.&quot;<br />Momen explains the philosophy, the law and morals, and the right way of living, in both the Hindu and Bahai Faiths to show that there is no conflict between the two, and provides a table showing the similarities of the two faiths. An Indian once said to 'Abdu'l-Baha, the son of Baha'u'llah the founder of the Bahai Faith: &quot;My aim in life is to transmit as far as in me lies the message of Krishna to the world.&quot; 'Abdu'l-Baha replied: &quot;The message of Krishna is the message of love. All God's prophets have brought the message of love.&quot; We need to be constantly reminded that love is the only way that we will find a solution to our problems. Whatever the reader's religious background, he or she will profit from learning about the religious truths that unite us.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1PLGBV150VH4K	1571743235	218786919	Emissary of Love: The Psychic Children Speak to the World	Books	5	9	11	N	N	This book could open your eyes to a new world view	This book has important information to give us as the Psychic Children, with their roots going back to the earliest days of Christianity, are centered in a secret monastery in Bulgaria and they chose Twyman as their intermediary to transfer their message to the outside world. The story starts in January 1991 at \\"An Informal Evening with James Twyman\\" when Marco, a ten-year Old Bulgarian boy mysteriously appears; none of the fifty guests are aware of his presence. During the ensuing conversation Marco asks \\"Do you know how to jump into people's lives and see things about them?\\" and proceeds to recall details of Twyman's childhood known to him alone. All the Psychic Children - called the Children of Oz - can see events about other people just like a playback of a movie. They can also move things with their mind - a power given to the author who started bending spoons a few days later. <br />Marco returned in a dream to explain that Twyman's terrible headaches were caused by using his special gifts for the wrong purpose. \\"What is important is that you learn to love people and you will be able to use the powers for good things, not to impress people\\" and  \\"All I can tell you right now is that we have a message for people, and you need to find it, then tell the people that message.\\" After two more dreams saying that it is the heart that really communicates and that the Children of Oz are here to serve a higher purpose, the author went to Bulgaria where he met with four of the Psychic Children - Anna, Ivan, Thomas and Sonja - who gave him the message and that is what this book is all about. <br />Because of his work for peace and what he has accomplished through his peace concerts Twyman has been given the responsibility to give to us the message from the Psychic Children. This book could open your eyes to a new view of who you are, why you are here and what you should be doing.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R31LK4P86NJMJW	0881501832	940208558	The Earth Shall Blossom: Shaker Herbs and Gardening	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A great help in taking power back into our own hands	The Shakers movement started in the United States with the arrival of nine believers from England in 1774 with the purpose of increasing the work of God and establishing the Millennial Church. They established a large number of villages, many of which have died out, some have been preserved as museums and two continue to operate as active communities. Devoted to creating a more perfect spiritual heaven on earth, the isolated communities with mills, factories, meeting houses and farms offered men and women a secure home where they could perfect their talents for a higher purpose. They were entrepreneurs with an ability to understand trends that allowed them to provide quality goods at competitive prices, one of which was the seed, herb and herbal remedy business - the subject of this book. We are told that: &quot;Every commune, to prosper, must be founded, so far as its industry goes, on agriculture. Only the simple labors and manners of a farming people can hold a community together.&quot; Their goal was to live separately from the world and to be self-sufficient, which in turn dictated their land acquisition policy and the establishment of the herb trade that was one of their most successful financial endeavors. Everything made or sold had to be perfect and &quot;The Shakers' seeds and herbs gave the members a reputation as excellent horticulturists. Eventually they mass-produced these products for sale throughout the World, and their businesses evolved and lasted into the twentieth century.&quot; <br />The Shaker physicians were excellent botanists to select the correct plants, understand soil types, weather, pests and when to harvest. To avoid mixing, they collected only one variety of plant at a time, at the peak of its growth, and only the part that was needed. Flowers were taken at their first opening after the dew had evaporated but before the day grew too hot. Great vigilance was required as the gardeners were competing with birds and other wild life. As thedemand for their products increased, sales expanded beyond the local area, capitalizing on the need for large quantities of pure, conveniently packaged herbs for the pharmaceutical trade. To meet demand they planted gardens, growing plants under carefully controlled conditions. &quot;For vegetables such as squash, cucumbers and melons, the Shakers cut the pulp out of the skins and put the meat into barrels to ferment. They stirred the mixture for about five days. When the seeds sank to the bottom of the barrels, they rinsed them in sieves. After the seeds dried, the Shakers packaged them for sale.&quot; Early in the year hot beds were filled with dung ready for spring planting. By the 1830s they had published their first catalogue offering 137 herbs for sale, followed in 1843 with the Gardeners' Manual with instructions to purchasers for growing their seeds. It is from these records that we have been provided with a book of great knowledge and accumulated wisdom. <br />Chapter 5 is &quot;Persevering Faithfulness: Creating Your Shaker Herb Garden&quot; with details of a herb tea garden with 18 teas, a culinary herb garden with 23 herbs, a medical herb garden with 25 herbs, a flowering herb garden with 20 herbs, and a fragrant herb garden with 21 herbs. There is information on preparing the soil, starting seed indoors, dividing plants, hot beds, transplanting, starting seed outdoors, cultivation, mulches, pest control, harvesting, storing and preparing the garden for winter. Other chapters tell us about the Shakers' medical practices, cosmetics, dyes and other household uses for herbs. The Shakers' agrarian lifestyle supported their large communities and fitted well with their belief in &quot;hands to work, and hearts to God&quot;. Throughout the Shakers' history, their lands supported a variety of profitable enterprises. Today, the benefits of creating a well-kept, healthy garden are still as numerous as they were 100 years ago.<br />This book is an excellent gift for the avid gardener, a useful guide for those not making full use of the garden space and an excellent reference for those who are considering using their surplus ground to start a small business. The Shakers developed a tremendous amount of valuable expertise that is contained in this book. Their business declined as the big seed companies moved in with more sophisticated advertising and promotion. Today, when our choice of seed varieties is much reduced, when the big seed companies have wrested too much power and impose upon us genetically modified crops, the Shakers would undoubtedly have provided a welcome alternative today. This book is a great help in taking back some of that power into our own hands.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1QKIPL5Z5MWL	0224018582	308554741	Small is Possible	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Identifies people working towards Schumacher's goals	Through his book &quot;Small is Beautiful&quot; Fritz Schumacher lead the world into a new paradigm away from bigness and into technologies of human scale. Yet today the world around us is full of massive corporations, the overwhelming power of multinational corporations and global businesses that make the new paradigm seem ever more at the mercy of smoke filled board rooms thousands of miles away. More than ever we need the small is beautiful worldview. How refreshing therefore to find that this book catalogues businesses and organizations around the world which are promoting this concept and trying their best to turn it into reality. They encourage us to create lifestyles and use technologies that are low in capital cost, sparing in their use of resources, non-violent towards nature and - most important of all - sustainable. With the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development sponsored by the United Nations starting in 2005, the lessons and work of these organizations is invaluable and should form part of the new curriculum. This book is what we need to convert fine thoughts into action. With this book we can locate like-minded people and firms to discuss problems and seek out solutions. This book will help the person of modest means wrest back some of the power lost to big corporations. Hazel Henderson tells us that &quot;George McRobie gives us a down-to-earth, flesh-and-blood account of Schumacher's unique philosophy in action and the fruits of their long-term collaboration.&quot; <br />Alternative technology is important not only as a counter to bigness. These words written about 1981 seem to be even more true today: &quot;Unemployment is rising again in highly industrialized countries, partly because of economic recession but also as a result of the success of technology in reducing the number of people needed to supply the demands of shrinking markets. Alternative technology practiced in small groups can make a major contribution to the solution of theappalling social problems caused when human beings are denied the essential dignity of worthwhile work.&quot; One day before he died, Schumacher spoke at an international conference on the theme &quot;that the highly industrialized, not only the developing, countries of the world must start to devise technologies that are more in harmony with people, and with the environment, and less dependant on non-renewable resources. Isn't it time, he asked, that we started to put some real effort into building lifeboats in the form of technologies that are small, simple and non-violent?&quot; That is what this book is all about - organizations throughout the world that are that working to turn this ideal into reality. <br />In his 1962 report to the Indian Planning Commission, Schumacher laid out the basic concept - that India was &quot;long&quot; on labor and &quot;short&quot; on capital and needed a capital investment per workplace very much lower than in western countries. Engineers needed to be given a specific sum per workplace - Rs 1000 excluding the building was the yardstick for those days - to design to. Initially the report was not well received because the planners were all tied into big development projects, but after a few years the logic became apparent. This is the concept that organizations in this book are working towards implementing.<br />The concept of &quot;Small is Beautiful&quot; is as important today as it was thirty years ago. Perhaps the concept is even more important as the big have got bigger and more powerful. Huge sums have been spent by governments to support big business but this has almost always resulted in a drop in the number of jobs as the capital invested per workplace has risen. The same money invested in intermediate technology would have created thousands of jobs. It is important that we are all aware of the people in our country who are working towards Schumacher's goals and that we put business in their direction whenever possible. Ifwe let them die out we will be in an even worse situation in a few years time.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2A4FI97GUDXFP	0722401426	483719215	Forest Farming: Towards a Solution to Problems of World Hunger and Conservation	Books	5	7	7	N	N	We can use trees for the betterment of mankind	In his foreword, Fritz Schumacher quotes &quot;Civilized man has marched across the face of the earth and left a desert in his footprints&quot; pointing out that the answer for the sound cultivation of the land has been with us all the time and is still available to us. &quot;Agriculture is for the plains, while silviculture is for the hills and mountains. When the plough invades the hills and mountains it destroys the land ...&quot; and &quot;Therefore, the crop-yielding tree offers the best medium for extending agriculture to hills, to steep places, to rocky places, and to the lands where rainfall is deficient.&quot; Schumacher continues that one of the greatest teachers of India was the Buddha who included in his teaching the obligation of every good Buddhist that he should plant and see the establishment of one tree at least every five years. If all of us simply adopted this philosophy of planting and establishing ten trees during our lifetime, this simple act multiplied six billion times, would have a greater economic benefit than traditional development plans. The authors set out to show that forest farming - also called agri-silviculture or agroforestry - will not only increase world production of food stuffs and raw materials but also preserve and enhance the environment, arrest forest destruction, improve raw materials supplies, improve land health and provide employment, noting that only about 10% of the world's surface is used for food production. With the aid of trees at least three-quarters of the earth could supply food, clothing, fuel, shelter and other basic products.<br />The well-known forester, Richard St. Barbe Baker, who founded the Men of the Trees Society in 1922 stated that for minimum safety a country should have about 30% of its surface under tree cover, but in most countries it is well below that figure and in the drier parts of Africa there are only a handful of trees per acre. Some countries in the Sahel zone, where the Sahara is rapidlyencroaching southward, as well as Botswana, on the edge of the Kalahari in Southern Africa, are virtually treeless. In 1929 Russell Smith published &quot;Tree Crops - A Permanent Agriculture&quot; putting forward the thesis that crop-yielding trees could provide useful substitutes for cereals in animal feeding programs as well as conserving the environment. He contrasted two approaches - the large stands of chestnut trees in Corsica which support man and beasts while protecting the hillsides from erosion and West China where the hillsides had been ploughed and left treeless with the loss of huge areas of formerly fertile soil. Smith foresaw a million hills green with crop yielding orchards with their attendant farm houses snuggled in the hills and recommended reclamation of steep unploughable lands and the development of &quot;two-story agriculture&quot; with the produce of trees fed to animals. Although successfully applied in Japan, the results remained largely unknown to the outside world. <br />The first paragraph of the book states: &quot;The most urgent task facing mankind today is to find a comprehensive solution to the problems of hunger and malnutrition, with all the disease and misery that they involve, by methods that do not overburden stocks of non-renewable resources, such as oil and minerals for fertilizers, and do not impoverish the environment.&quot; The second paragraph outlines the solution: &quot;Vast areas of the world which are at present unproductive or under-productive - savannahs and virgin grasslands, jungles and marshes, barren uplands and rough grazings, deserts and farm lands abandoned owing to erosion - could be brought to life and made more hospitable to human settlement. The know-how exists to make abundant contributions to man's food need by methods combining scientific and technological research with traditional husbandry. The 'tool' with the greatest potentials for feeding men and animals, for regenerating the soil, for restoring water-systems, for controlling floods and droughts, for creating more benevolent micro-climates and more comfortable and stimulating living conditions for humanity, is the tree.&quot; This is what the book is all about - how we can use the tree for the betterment of mankind. <br />The deeper problem is ignorance as many crop-yielding trees and shrubs are currently ignored by farmers because agriculture in most parts of the world is geared to cereal growing and livestock rearing by conventional means, despite the fact that trees offer higher yields per acre. Drought resistant trees such as the olive, almond and carob not only flourish where all other crops fail but produce valuable fruit or edible beans which when ground up are excellent fodder for animals and for humans. Not only do appropriate tree plantations need no irrigation once established but through transpiration trees attract rainfall in adjacent areas. If the tree growing potentialities of city private gardens were fully recognized, suburban areas would not only have purer air but a greater degree of self-sufficiency when used for livestock. Forest farming is also known as three-dimensional forestry because the crop falls and feeds animals that are sold. You thus have conservation, tree crops and livestock - three-dimensional forestry. <br />If you accept the argument that man has left a desert in his foot prints, if you feel there is wisdom in Buddha's teaching that each of us should plant trees, if you agree that trees are best on hills, in steep places, in rocky places, and where rainfall is deficient, then you will find this a fascinating book that will motivate you to play your part in spreading the word and getting more trees planted during your life time.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	RV2ZEZQ78YG6Q	085398431X	124915409	Servant of the Glory	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Easy to read and helpful information	Mary Perkins has a particular interest in writing for young people so this book is easy to read, full of helpful information and written in a manner which makes it difficult to put down. Tracing events from the earliest days of the Bahai Faith, the author details the remarkable life of Abdu'l-Baha, the son of Baha'u'llah, the founder of the Faith.<br />All religions expect a promised one and the concept of a herald who precedes the world savior is also quite common. Many calculated the day of return to be in the mid-1840s and gathered in the Middle East to greet the returning king but there was great disappointment when Christ did not reappear as expected. However, in the city of Shiraz in Southern Persia, Ali Muhammad declared himself the awaited herald, and assumed the spiritual name of the &quot;Bab&quot; meaning the &quot;Gate&quot;. This marked the birth of the Bahai Revelation. Much opposition was aroused within the established clergy leading to 20,000 martyrs dying in the bloody persecution that followed. Abdu'l-Baha, born in 1844, was witness to these tragic events which took on a very personal tone when his father, Baha'u'llah, the central figure of the Bahai faith, was banished to Baghdad in 1852 because he was a follower of the Bab. In 1863 his father revealed himself as the promised One of all religions. For the family and the followers of the new Faith these were years full of trauma, persecutions, massacres, martyrdom and exile when the son stood at his father's side. In 1892 Abdu'l-Baha took on the responsibilities of the Cause after his father's passing and as the Ottoman empire crumbled and he was free to travel, peace became one of his main tasks. On his European and American tour in 1911 and 1912, he pleaded for the moral and social reforms that are the prerequisites of any universal and lasting peace. But his pleas fell on deaf ears. After the tragedy of World War I he continued his efforts in the belief that there is no more important matter inthe world than that of universal peace.<br />&quot;Servant of the Glory&quot; is an invaluable addition to any library not only because it deals with one of the central characters of the Bahai Faith but because the value system and world view that Abdu'l-Baha espoused are as valid today as they were prior to World War I.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2ID60WYIZTOBC	0674011295	404456226	The Palestinian People: A History	Books	5	30	44	N	N	A good, balanced view	Rejecting standard Palestinian and Israeli historiographies, this book puts forth an explanation of why we are in the present situation by relying heavily on published material and undisputed facts but viewed from the author's particular perspective and interpretation. Stephen Covey, in his book 'The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People' illustrates the fact that we can all see the same world completely differently by the picture of a woman. To some who have been conditioned beforehand she is an old hag while to others, conditioned differently, she is a real cutie. No where does this point have greater validity than when we view the history of the relationship between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples. To put it crudely, the Israelis have been conditioned to view the Palestinians as the old hag, while the Palestinians, quite naturally, see themselves as the real cutie. For the neutral outsider who is concerned that the Third World War might arise in this area, it is very difficult to get past the passions and prejudices, to get to facts and solutions that are acceptable to everyone. It seems that we have two broad alternatives - let the contestants fight it out until one is the victor or both are so exhausted that they are prepared to negotiate. During their centuries of immaturity, humans have used this method. I like to think that humans have grown beyond that stage and can act in a more mature manner and this is basically what this book sets out to do. They have tried to gather the facts of history in an unbiased way and work on the solution in a mature manner.<br />Their 1993 book &quot;Palestinians: The Making of a People', was the first full account of Palestinian society and politics from their origins to the present and was published as the Oslo peace process was starting. It generated considerable interest from neutral people, Palestinian acclaim and vitriolic debate in Israel. When Rabin took Arafat's hand on the White House lawn in September 1993, it wasacknowledged that the Oslo agreement demanded a new way of thinking about old issues and stubborn problems. The prime issue was whether or not there was a unified Palestinian people prior to Zionism - an assertion that the authors reaffirm in this book, recognizing that it is extremely unpopular in Israel as it undermines the Zionist story. However, since 1993 there has been a growing acceptance of the authors' points and in an August 2002 poll 78% of Israeli Jews accepted that Palestinians have a legitimate right to a state. After Barak's 1999 election, 75% of Palestinians on the West Bank and Gaza Strip voted for negotiations, knowing that this meant acceptance of Israel's legitimate existence and Israel's occupation of 80% of historic Palestine.<br />The Oslo process induced Palestinians and Israelis to reconsider their shared history - a painful undertaking for both sides. Building the future requires an ability to deal maturely and honestly with the past and it is the hope of the authors that this book will contribute to that process. Tracing events from the 1834 Revolt and the making of the modern Palestine in the first three parts of the book, the final part examines what went right and what went wrong in the Oslo process. If we accept the fact that the authors have made an effort to present the facts in a neutral way - recognizing that the hag and cutie prejudice will not be easily overcome - the important thing is to study the final part, stop the bloodshed and move forward.<br />It is a responsibility of all peace loving people to read this book and lend their support to finding and implementing the solution which comes closest to being fair for all. I am reminded of Edmund Burke's statement: &quot;For the triumph of evil it is only necessary that good men do nothing.&quot;	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1DK6BLZFHWJDX	0853981493	623994715	Door of hope : a century of the Bah' faith in the Holy Land	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A journey in progressive religious revelation	Historically the Holy Land has exercised an influence upon human affairs out of all proportion to its size, primarily because it is holy in the eyes of Jews, Christians, Muslims and, now most recently, Bahais. Pilgrims find themselves in a dense concentration of meaningful sites and a confusion of religious rivalry. It is meaningful to different religions because the Holy Land was promised by God to Abraham, sanctified by the Revelation of Moses, honored by the lives and labors of the Hebrew patriarchs, judges, kings and prophets and revered as the cradle of Christianity. The Holy Land was the place where Zoroaster held converse with some of the Prophets of Israel and is associated by Islam with the Apostle's night journey through the seven heavens to the throne of the Almighty. About 150 years ago Baha'u'llah, the founder of the Bahai Faith, was condemned to spend one third of his life in exile in &quot;the nest of all the Prophets of God.&quot;<br />Ruhe tells us that a pilgrimage to Israel constitutes a journey in progressive Revelation - a concept that is a foundation stone of the Bahai Faith but usually disputed by the leaders of other religions. It is in the Holy Land that humankind meets its first big religious stumbling block. When a religion believes that it alone holds the truth then we have laid the foundations for religious rivalry and quite possibly war and bloodshed. When a religion believes in progressive revelation, all can accept that they have received a piece of God's greater truth appropriate to that people at that time. If we believe that humankind is rather more advanced today than at the time of Adam or Moses or Jesus and if we believe in a God of love who is doing His best to help humankind progress, then it is logical to believe that God will periodically send messengers or prophets to help society make the next step forward. In the comic books of our youth the convict was very clearly identified by his clothing and his appearance; not so God's messengers. Even though Jesus' arrival was clearly predicted in the Old Testament, he arrived as the child of a poor family rather than the leader of a powerful army and there was so much confusion that the established church crucified Him rather than welcomed Him. It is therefore quite understandable that there should be a great deal of confusion surrounding the world's most recent religion - the Bahai Faith.<br />This book has been written for those who are open to the concept of progressive revelation so that they have the information required to decide for themselves whether Baha'u'llah is in fact the most recent of God's messengers. The reader accompanies Baha'u'llah through his lifetime of persecution and is introduced to the major characters who believed in him. There are many photos that help to bring the journey to life. We are also given an insight into some of the people who met Baha'u'llah or collected information about him and who were convinced that he was indeed what he claimed to be.<br />If you doubt the truths handed to you by the leaders of your faith; if you do not understand why religions which all purport to come from a God of love and peace fail to practice what they preach; if you are confused as to how and why humankind has turned the Holy Land into the most unholy spot on earth; if you cannot understand why there should be such rivalry over the holy places visited by pilgrims, then this would be a good book to reflect on.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2X848GEI4PL1X	0806121246	238428494	The Sacred Pipe: Black Elks Account of the Seven Rites of the Oglala Sioux (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	119	120	N	N	If you want peace, read this book	Joseph Epes Brown was fortunate in meeting men who possessed great human and spiritual qualities, especially Black Elk who had a unique quality of power, kindliness and sense of mission. Born in 1862, Black Elk grew up when his people had the freedom of the plains, hunted bison; he fought at Little Bighorn and at Wounded Knee Creek and knew Crazy Horse, Sitting Bull, Red Cloud, and American Horse. He traveled with Buffalo Bill to Italy, France and England. During his youth Black Elk was instructed in the sacred love of his people by Whirlwind Chaser, Black Road and Elk Head from whom he learned the history and deep meanings of his people's spiritual heritage. Through prayer, fasting and deep understanding of his heritage, Black Elk became a wise man, receiving visions and acquiring special powers to be used for the good of his nation. Because of his sense of mission Black Elk wanted this book to be written so that the reader could gain a better understanding of the truths of the Indian traditions.<br />In his foreword Black Elk tells us: &quot;There is much talk of peace among the Christians, yet this is just talk. Perhaps it may be, and this is my prayer, through our sacred pipe, and through this book in which I shall explain what our pipe really is, peace may come to those people who can understand, an understanding which must be of the heart and not of the head alone. Then they will realize that we Indians know the One true God, and that we pray to Him continually. I have wished to make this book through no other desire than to help my people in understanding the greatness and truth of our own tradition, and also to help in bringing peace upon the earth, not only among men, but within men and between the whole of creation.&quot;    <br />The wisdom of the Indians is based on such concepts as &quot;The Earth is your Grandmother and Mother, and She is sacred. Every step that is taken upon her should be as a prayer&quot; and &quot;Every dawn as it comes is a holy event, every day is holy.&quot; The Indians developed their own religion based on the gift of the sacred pipe given by a very beautiful woman who approached two Lakota Indians out hunting. One of them had bad intentions and he and the mysterious woman were wrapped in a cloud. When the cloud lifted the sacred woman was standing there and at her feet was the man who was nothing but bones and terrible snakes were eating him. Black Elk interpreted this as an eternal truth: &quot;Any man who is attached to the senses and to the things of this world, is one who lives in ignorance and is being consumed by snakes which represent his own passions.&quot; The mysterious woman presented the tribe with a pipe and stone, explaining the significance of the gift. On her departure she said to the Standing Hollow Horn: &quot;Behold this pipe! Always remember how sacred it is, and treat it as such, for it will take you to the end. Remember, in me there are four ages. I am leaving now, but I shall look back upon your people in every age, and at the end I shall return.&quot; These four ages find a parallel in the Hindu tradition during which true spirituality becomes increasingly obscured until the cycle closes with catastrophe, after which the primordial spirituality is restored and the cycle begins once again.<br />Through the rite of the keeping of the soul, the Indians purified the souls of the dead and increased love for one another. This rite is followed by the rite of purification, known to us as the sacred lodge. The ritual of &quot;Crying for a Vision&quot; was used long before the coming of the sacred pipe. Crazy Horse received most of his power through &quot;lamenting&quot; or crying for a vision for some great event or ordeal such as going on the war path. &quot;But perhaps the most important reason for 'lamenting' is that it helps us to realize our oneness with all things, to know that all things are our relatives; and then in behalf of all things we pray to Wakan-Tanka thatHe may give to us knowledge of Him who is the source of all things, yet greater than all things.&quot; Chapters are devoted to the Sun dance - one of the greatest rites; to &quot;The making of Relatives&quot; reflecting the relationship between man and Wakan-Tanka; preparing a girl for womanhood; and the rite of &quot;The Throwing of the ball.&quot; Through these ceremonies we learn how the Sioux have come to terms with God, nature and their fellow man. <br />If you question the superiority and validity of the goals of western society; if you are conducting a self-examination; if you are re-evaluating the premises and orientations of our society; if you are concerned about our environmental crisis; if you are concerned about the problems created by highly developed technology; if you are questioning our basic values concerning life, nature and the destiny of man; if you are open to look at the models represented by the American Indians; if you want talk about peace to become action about peace you will find something of value in this book.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1BP2ZY0MRU5ES	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Excellent	By 'the end of history' Fukuyama means that humankind has found the ultimate form of governance and that the period of experimentation has come to an end. Hegel and Marx believed that the evolution of human societies would end when mankind had achieved a form of society that satisfies its deepest and most fundamental longings. For Hegel this was the liberal state while for Marx it was a communist society. Fukuyama believes that humanity will be led to liberal democracy.<br /><br />The book is divided into five sections. Part I addresses the issue of universal history. As individuals we can be optimistic about the 20th century with its improving prospects of health and happiness but pessimistic at the slow progress towards liberal democracy. This 20th century pessimism is in contrast to the optimism of the 19th century marked by peace and improvements in material well being. Science was conquering disease and poverty and the spirit of 1776 and the French Revolution was spreading throughout the world. There was a feeling of accumulating knowledge, increasing wisdom and advancement from the lower to higher levels of intelligence and well being. Free trade was replacing empire building and it seemed that war would be economically irrational. But the 20th century started disastrously with thousands dying daily over a few yards of ground in World War I. Horrendous as this war turned out to be, it was only a foretaste of new forms of evil backed by modern technology and more sophisticated political organization. The ultimate evil of the holocaust emerged in a country with the most advanced industrial economy and one of the most cultured and well-educated populations in Europe, highlighting the need for technological progress to be accompanied by moral progress. Without moral progress, technology will be turned to evil purposes and mankind will be worse off than previously.<br />However, the author argues that during the second half of the 20th century the world got betterand the final quarter of the century saw communism and authoritarian governments collapsing or undergoing severe crisis. In most cases reforms were not imposed from the outside but were due to an internal crisis of confidence that had infected the ruling elite. In Fukuyama's opinion liberal democracy remains the only coherent political aspiration spanning the globe and this is his basis of optimism. After a millenium of experimentation and false starts humankind can at last see the light at the end of the tunnel and this is his rational for drawing our attention to the need to plan the next steps.<br />Part II uses natural science to explain the direction and coherence of history, based on the fact that technology confers a decisive military advantage and limitless wealth. The logic of natural science seems to dictate a move towards capitalism; the world's most developed countries are also its most successful democracies.<br />Part III introduces the concept of man's struggle for recognition. Only man can move beyond self-preservation for the sake of higher, abstract principles and goals. Much of human behavior can be explained as a combination of desire and reason, but Hegel maintains that self-esteem drives the whole historical process. When we are not recognized we feel anger; when we fall short of our own sense of worth we feel shame; and when we are correctly evaluated we feel pride. It is self-esteem that drives men into a battle to the death, creating masters of those willing to risk their lives and slaves of those who give in. But the relationship of lordship and bondage would ultimately fail because humanity is not complete. Lordship and bondage led to the French and American revolutions to be replaced by the principles of popular sovereignty, the rule of law and universal and reciprocal recognition. Adoption of these principles should ensure that every citizen recognizes the dignity and humanity of every other citizen. Dissatisfaction with the flawed recognition available in aristocratic societies caused revolutions while Communism is being superceded by liberal democracy primarily because it has a defective form of recognizing man's self-worth. Seeking recognition has been the central problem of politics for the past millenium; it was the origin of tyranny and the desire to dominate. The author warns us that communities must cater to the desire for recognition while protecting themselves from its destructive effects.<br />The deeper and more profound question concerns the goodness of liberal democracy itself and not only whether it will succeed against its rivals. The internal contradictions have already lead to such serious problems as drugs, homelessness, crime, environmental damage and consumerism. Part IV questions whether today's liberal democracy is completely satisfying because capitalism creates economic inequality and equal people are recognized unequally. In addition peace and prosperity leaves unsatisfied that part of us that seeks struggle, danger, risk and daring.<br />Part V: The Last Man brings us to the important part of the book which can be summed up by these sentences: &quot;Common sense would indicate that liberal democracy has many advantages over its 20th-century rivals, fascism and communism, while loyalty to our inherited values and traditions would dictate unquestioning commitment to democracy. But the cause of liberal democracy is not necessarily best served by unthinking partisanship, and by the failure to address squarely democracy's failings. And it is obviously impossible to answer the question of whether history has come to an end without looking more deeply at the question of democracy and its discontents.&quot; Left to itself can liberal democracy be indefinitely self-sustaining, or will it collapse from internal rot much as communism has done? This is the part of the book which we must study carefully to ensure that never again will technology and sophisticated political systems beturned to evil purposes leaving mankind worse off than he was before.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2YA8DE756SZ1V	1870098447	647833839	Forest Gardening (A Resurgence Book)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Everyone can profit from this book	If you have not yet read 'Forest Farming' by Douglas and Hart, then you may lack the background to fully appreciate this book. In 'Forest Farming' we are told that civilized man has marched across the face of the earth and left a desert in his footprints primarily because he has ploughed the hills with the loss of top soil. Crop-yielding trees offer the best medium for extending agriculture to hills, steep places, rocky places, and to the lands where rainfall is deficient. Every good Buddhist plants and sees the establishment of one tree at least every five years and this simple act multiplied six billion times would have a greater economic benefit for humankind than traditional development plans. The 'tool' with the greatest potentials for feeding men and animals, for regenerating the soil, for restoring water-systems, for controlling floods and droughts, for creating more benevolent micro-climates and more comfortable and stimulating living conditions for humanity, is the tree. Douglas and Hart point out that the deeper problem is ignorance as many crop-yielding trees and shrubs are currently ignored by farmers because agriculture in most parts of the world is geared to cereal growing and livestock rearing by conventional means, despite the fact that trees offer higher yields per acre. If the tree growing potentialities of city private gardens was fully recognized, suburban areas would not only have purer air and a more benevolent microclimate but a greater degree of self-sufficiency. <br />In this book Hart develops the case for the urban dweller to adopt forest gardening to achieve economy of space and labor while producing fruit, nuts, root and perennial vegetables and herbs. He provides the guidelines required for temperate, tropical and sub-tropical climates. &quot;Like the forest it is arranged in seven 'storeys', with the original apple and pear trees constituting the 'canopy' and the other plants occupying the lower tiers. Thus the garden has a well-defined vertical dimension as well as horizontal ones. Now that it has been established for several years, I can affirm that it requires minimal maintenance, as the plants - nearly all perennials - largely look after themselves and are very healthy. The main work involved is that of cutting back plants that try to encroach on others. The wide diversity of species ensures that any small invasions of pests never reach epidemic proportions, as they tend to do under monocultural conditions. The large number of aromatic herbs creates a deliciously fragrant atmosphere, and, I am convinced, contributes to the pest-and-disease-resistance of the other plants. As we eat the herbs and perennial vegetables daily in our salads, the garden makes a significant contribution to our diet throughout the growing season, from the first herbs and wild garlic in March to the last apples in November.&quot;<br />The author goes on to warn us that we must seek ordered diversity governed by the laws of plant symbiosis but the results can be that a half hectare can support a family of up to ten people. Java has the greatest concentration of forest gardens yet is one of the most densely populated rural areas of the world. Forest gardening is more than a system for supplying mankind's material needs; it is a way of life which addresses man's spiritual needs by its beauty and the wealth of wildlife it attracts. In the early chapters we follow the author's development as he wrestles with the problem, concluding that: &quot;if one could devise an integrated system of land-use consisting mainly of perennial plants - fruit and nut tress and bushes together with perennial vegetables and herbs - as well as a diet based on this mix, the task of achieving self-sufficiency would be vastly simplified. This is how I discovered agroforestry.&quot;<br />There are plenty of good tips such as this one on potatoes. &quot;The champion exponent of this technique, the aim of which is to grow a colossal crop of potatoes from a single seed, was a Sussex villager, Tom Cooke, known as the Ace of Spuds. This was his procedure: large seed potatoes, well supplied with eyes, were soaked in a solution of liquid seaweed and water for an hour a week for six months, starting in October. During the winter Tom prepared his plot, allowing eight-foot squares for each seed. The site was excavated one-foot deep and filled with wheat straw, to which dry seaweed fertilizer was added after the straw had weathered and was almost black. On top of this came a layer of manure and soil mixed with more seaweed. The tubers were planted at the end of March or early April and covered with a thin dressing of straw. Then, at fortnightly intervals, the growing plants were earthed up with layers of straw, seaweed and soil until they reached a height of some 3-4 feet, sending out numerous side-shoots liberally supplied with tubers. After a series of foliar feeds with liquid seaweed, the harvest was eventually reached: over half a ton of potatoes from just six seeds!&quot;<br />If you are an avid gardener there will surely be something new in this book; if you simply want to make your garden more productive and did not know of the seven story concept, you will find this book helpful; if you have been overwhelmed by the work in the garden you should concentrate on perennials as Hart has done; if you have just a small plot this book will help you get the maximum production and help you to eat healthily; if you would like to attract more wildlife to your garden, read this book. It is difficult to imagine anyone not profiting from Hart's theoretical and practical research.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R3NKQ62O29PJVC	0070369542	174572213	Imagineering	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This is the path to prosperity	The person who knows how to create good, new ideas and turn them into realities is the one who will prosper no matter what the future brings; in this book the reader will find valuable, practical techniques for generating new ideas and turning them into successful realities. Our education system helps us to learn facts, analyze, evaluate and critique but seldom helps us develop our creative abilities. We have two minds with the left brain thinking in terms of symbols and words used for logic, judgement, speaking, and maths, while the right brain thinks in terms of sensory images and is the source of dreaming, feelings, visualization and intuition. Creative thinking requires coordinating and using both sides of the brain as flashes of insight are right-brain but analyzing insights is left-brain. Highly creative people rely heavily on the intuitive left brain; Einstein relied heavily on visual thinking to transform thoughts into equations. If we divide our mental abilities into four functions - observe and call attention; memorize and recall; analyze and judge; and generate new ideas, foresee and visualize the non-existent - our educational system develops abilities in the first three left brain categories while neglecting the fourth right brain category. The challenge today is to develop right brain thinking to take advantage of computer technology.<br />Great thinkers seldom have an original thought; most plagiarize nature, books and others ideas. There is nothing new under the sun; creativity is mixing old things in new ways. Dale Carnegie used Socrates, Chesterfield and Jesus. Creative people make an asset of being a nonexpert, are motivated by need, feel free to fantasize, work hard to obtain their ideas and then promote them, make things as simple as possible, realize that everything can be done better, are not restricted by age or gender, take time to innovate, dream, plan and calculate how to turn ideas into realities, do not worry what others think, tread in areas where they have no credentials, are not discouraged by bureaucracy, discord, opinions and beliefs. Success is never final; failure is never fatal. New ideas come to those who decide what they want, have self-discipline and are determined to control their own destiny. Putting a man on the moon was an example of a pipe dream which generated millions of ideas but it was based on written goals, broken into manageable categories with specific and measurable results within an agreed time frame and with a clear vision and definition of success.<br />There are five stages to creativity - the desire to create; information gathering; incubation; illumination; refinement and verification. After immersing yourself in information, ideas incubate until a new insight pops into the mind as with gravity and Newton's apple or Darwin's evolution. While this all sounds very easy, there are techniques for generating and capturing new ideas, determining whether you have a good idea and turning an idea into an innovation. Parts II, III and IV are devoted to sharing these techniques with the reader.<br />The value of this book is to point out that everything we do wherever we are can be done better by an imaginative person. Our education system neglects creativity although our prosperity ultimately depends upon it; this book fills the gap. The wise will take to heart the lessons and for some it may be the path to prosperity.areas where they have no credentials, are not discouraged by bureaucracy, discord, opinions and beliefs. Success is never final; failure is never fatal. New ideas come to those who decide what they want, have self-discipline and are determined to control their own destiny. Putting a man on the moon was an example of a pipe dream which generated millions of ideas but it was based on written goals, broken into manageable categories with specific and measurable results within an agreed time frame and with a clear vision and definition of success. <br />There are five stages to creativity - the desire to create; information gathering; incubation; illumination; refinement and verification. After immersing yourself in information, ideas incubate until a new insight pops into the mind as with gravity and Newton's apple or Darwin's evolution. While this all sounds very easy, there are techniques for generating and capturing new ideas, determining whether you have a good idea and turning an idea into an innovation. Parts II, III and IV are devoted to sharing these techniques with the reader. <br />The value of this book is to point out that everything we do wherever we are can be done better by an imaginative person. Our education system neglects creativity although our prosperity ultimately depends upon it; this book fills the gap. The wise will take to heart the lessons and for some it may be the path to prosperity.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R181I23Y1O994U	0853033900	503946679	From Thessaloniki to Auschwitz and Back: Memories of a Survivor from Thessaloniki	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A grim reminder	Edmund Burke said: \\"For the triumph of evil it is only necessary that good men do nothing.\\" This book is a grim reminder of that truth. The back cover tells us exactly what we will find. \\"Before the Second World War there was a thriving Jewish community of some 50,000 people in Thessaloniki, Greece. In 1943, under Nazi occupation, virtually the entire community was deported to Auschwitz extermination camp. That Erika Amariglio and several members of her family survived is due only to a series of coincidences, which started with the fact that they were on the first transport to Auschwitz, and of the 2,800 people on their train they were the only ones who spoke fluent German. Erika Amariglio's story covers the period before the war in Thessaloniki, the German occupation and the gradual tightening of restrictions, the transportation, the two-and-a-half years that she and members of her family spent in Auschwitz, the long death march back to Germany, their escape to Yugoslavia, and the eventual reunion of the family in Greece. It concludes with the author's return to Auschwitz many years later as a delegate to an international conference on the Holocaust. \\"<br />Creating a better world for our children is not just the nourishing of good but it is also the crushing of evil. It is horrible to be reminded what evil men can do if we just stand aside and pretend not to see. Unfortunately we need to be reminded periodically of this sad truth.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R3PPJ4Q7M9369I	0933770480	855005100	Circle of Peace: Reflections on the Baha'I Teachings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Open minded people should read this book	Antony Lee has brought together nine essays which help us identify the reasons for our lack of progress in building a peaceful world since World War II. We clearly need some new ideas and different approaches - something that this book offers. The solution lies in such approaches as strengthening the bonds of affection and unity with each other, putting a stop to religious rivalry, annulling the differences between races, replacing expenditures on arms with expenditures that promote the wellbeing and happiness of mankind. Abdul-Baha, the leader of the Bahai Faith from 1892, on his European and American tour in 1911 and 1912, pleaded for the moral and social reforms that are the prerequisites of any universal and lasting peace. But his pleas fell on deaf ears. After the tragedy of World War I he continued his efforts in the belief that: &quot;There is not one soul whose conscience does not testify that in this day there is no more important matter in the world than that of universal peace.&quot; These nine essays continue the efforts of Abdul-Baha in the belief that the Bahai sacred writings have much to offer in our efforts to find a lasting peace.<br />Einstein pointed out that we need a different kind of thinking to get us out of a problem from the thinking that got us into the problem. No where is this more true than our current thinking about war and peace. Our record over the last 60 years is miserable. Open minded people should study this book to see if it could lead to a new approach to building a lasting peace.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R2E8Z8GNAHEM29	0300089597	2776129	Thoreau's Ecstatic Witness	Books	5	9	9	N	N	We can learn much from this outstanding man	Most people learn about Thoreau through his books &quot;Walden&quot; and &quot;Civil Disobedience&quot; but the purpose of this book is to provide a spiritual biography and an insight into his religious and spiritual thoughts and experience. Thoreau has been many things to many people but of himself he wrote &quot;The fact is I am a mystic - a transcentalist - and a natural philosopher to boot.&quot; As an outspoken critic of institutional religious life, Thoreau was no friend of organized religion, but nevertheless he was a religious person. Emerson wrote of him: &quot;Whilst he used in his writings a certain petulance of remark in reference to churches or churchmen, he was a person of rare, tender, and absolute religion, a person incapable of any profanation, by act or by thought ... Thoreau was sincerity itself, and might fortify the convictions of prophets in the ethical laws by his holy living. It was an affirmative experience which refused to be set aside. A truth-speaker he, capable of the most deep and strict conversations; a physician to the wounds of any soul; a friend knowing not only the secret of friendship, but almost worshipped by those few persons who resorted to him as their confessor and prophet, and knew the deep value of his mind and great heart. He thought that without religion or devotion of some kind, nothing great was ever accomplished: and he thought that the bigoted sectarian had better bear this in mind.&quot;<br />1851 was a watershed in Thoreau's life, having weathered the formative years of the 1840s, full of experiments and false starts and when he lost his brother and sister. He helped runaway slaves escape to Canada and criticized the Massachusetts authorities for being unchristian by returning captured slaves to the south. He had turned 34, found that he was not suited to school teaching, was already feeling his age and a loss of elasticity of both mind and body. Already in the autumn of his life, he wanted to write but had to turnto other jobs to survive. Having acquired a surveyor's compass, work was coming in and he was being paid for what he enjoyed most - being outside where he could study Concord's natural history. Emerson encouraged him in his literary ambition and the next seven years were to be of tremendous literary achievement. <br />The author refers frequently to Thoreau's religious experiences to be found in &quot;A Week&quot; - especially 'Sunday' and 'Monday' - in &quot;Walden&quot;, &quot;Cape Cod&quot;, the journal, and essays such as &quot;Life without Principle&quot; and &quot;Walking&quot;. Thoreau was one of those outstanding people from whom we can learn much; his was a life well lived. This book will be of especial interest to those who believe that nothing great will ever be accomplished without religion or devotion of some kind but who have not found what they are looking for in organized religion.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1N0NFWFAPUF12	0140234071	133447143	A Good House: Building a Life on the Land	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A good template for defining the good life	A thoughtful couple, knowing that we were planning to build our own house gave this book; it was a pleasure to read because the question \\"What is a good house?\\" leads to the question \\"What is a good life?\\" For the author this led to more searching questions - a house takes forests from mountains, coal from hills, life from the planet. As these are all major contradictions for those who value nature, the author set out to build his house in such a way as to ensure his happiness with minimum damage to the earth. Building a house is an environmentally destructive act which, multiplied millions of times, is responsible for the degradation of some of our best land. The threat is that unless we are careful we may live our lives in an unsustainable manner. On a fairly superficial level Manning set out to build an environmentally sensitive, energy efficient house but at a deeper level he wanted a house that would rebuild his life from a failed marriage. He did not want frugality to preclude beauty nor asceticism to preclude art. This meant that the land and the author had to cut a deal which is really what this book is all about - the factors that we have to consider, the trade-offs that we have to make and the process of reaching our decisions. <br />The first lesson that we can learn from Manning is that the land is our first teacher, something that really came home to him in his search for water. The second lesson we learn is about money and how the house loan business works. Because he and the owner of the adjacent property needed a bank loan to build, they planned only basic environmental goals such as a 30% reduction in water consumption compared with national averages, superefficient lights and appliances, recycling of gray water, joint ownership of some facilities, and granting open-space easements for wildlife. With a loan secured he was ready for the third lesson - locating the house. In his case \\"feel\\" played a major consideration, once he had settled on a southfacing slope and the house footprint. He established a rule that the house would be no bigger than his city apartment, although it was small by national standards, so that he could do without an architect. His golden rule was \\"If I don't understand it, I don't do it.\\" <br />Manning tells us how he started digging and his plans for earth sheltering - burying the lower part of the house to reduce heat loss and take advantage of the earth's insulation - a special advantage on a south facing slope with the house buried on three sides. This is another way of saying you live in the basement and take advantage of a large area of the house. He decided on concrete rather than wood because of the concept of thermal mass. But concrete is a gamble; when it's done its either right for all time or its wrong. There's no middle ground. When it goes wrong, it goes dreadfully, terribly wrong and all hell breaks loose. <br />If you have ever toyed with the idea of building a house in the country and starting the good life, read this book with its template for defining the good life, defining the good house, proceeding with minimal resources and all its lessons for the unwary.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1C45SZF3OO7V1	0930031636	370416040	Loving and Leaving the Good Life (Good Life Series)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	We are fortunate that Helen left us this book	When your 100-year old husband of 55 years has passed on and you, at 88, can see your own end, and when you have spent most of those years seeking and living the good life, and when you take the time and trouble to record your thoughts for posterity, it is surely worthwhile for us, the readers, to take note and reflect on what might be of value in our own goal of living the good life. This is not a biography of the husband, Scott, nor an autobiography of Helen but it is offered as a tribute to Scott's being as Helen knew it. She wants Scott to be remembered as an unassuming, kindly, wise, husband as well as a principled, uncompromising, intellectual radical; she also wants to share with us his peaceful, intentioned, and premeditated ending. <br />Born in the upper echelons of society, he worked alongside immigrant laborers in the Pennsylvania mine run by his grandfather. This was a formative experience that resulted in his speaking publicly in his early twenties on liberal reform. '''Even before I began the study of economics,' he said in an early lecture, 'I was impressed by the monstrous inequality which exists between the rich and the poor in modern society. The rich enjoy wealth, leisure, and boundless opportunity. The poor are overwhelmed by misery, overwork, and insanitation. The rich have a heaven of opportunity; the poor a hell of misery, and the heaven of the rich is founded upon the hell of the poor. If I was impressed by these conditions before I had studied them, I was appalled after having given them careful consideration. I had heard of poverty; I believed that misery and vice existed, but I was not aware that they were prevalent in every town and city of the land. Ability and capacity were suppressed; together with the progress which might well be attained, were opportunity more universal ... The poor are ignorant of the fact that by standing together at the ballot box, they might revolutionize conditions in a decade.'&quot;<br />Very soon he had offended the powers that be with his outspoken views and he would never teach again in the United States. From that point Scott's life can be summed up in these sentences: &quot;The living of an ideal involves payment of a certain price ... the further the ideal is removed from the common practice, the higher the price that must be paid for it ... If your ideal is to live a mentally active, mentally honest life, to seek the truth, then you may have to sacrifice even food, clothing, and shelter to get it.&quot; and  &quot;The majority will always be for caution, hesitation, and the status quo - always against creation and innovation. The innovator - he who leaves the beaten track - must therefore always be a minoritarian - always be an object of opposition, scorn, hatred. It is part of the price he must pay for the ecstasy that accompanies creative thinking and acting.&quot; Scott was aware of the price he would have to pay for his convictions; he regretted enormously the loss of the day-to-day contact with his university students who lost an outstanding educator; but he never regretted standing alone. One of his file cards clearly defined the problem: &quot;If a man is one step ahead of the crowd he is a leader; if two steps ahead, he is a disturber; if three steps, he is a fanatic and not to be trusted.&quot; Scott was too many steps ahead of those in authority and he was a danger who had to be removed. At the age of 34 his chosen career was in ruins; his books that had been standard textbooks in public schools were banned and royalty income ceased. He was at the low point of his life and that was when he met Helen.<br />Helen, born in 1904 into a family of high principles and adequate means was the unconventional child, always reading and addicted to the twelve volumes of the Book of Knowledge at a young age. She had a talent for the violin, preferred the company of trees and rocks, drew and wrote poetry. She did not accept unquestioningly the world in which she lived. As a teenager she felt there was a power and a purpose in the universe and queried what we are here for and what life is all about. At seventeen, she sailed to Rotterdam to study the violin, met up with the Theosophists and the young Krishnamurti who she followed for several years on his mission to be a world teacher. But she saw the vast abyss between the ultra rich and the homeless in Bombay and Calcutta while Krishnamurti surrounded himself with the well to do, the famous and the influential. It was time for her to strike out on her own path. She returned to Ridgewood and there received a phone call from Scott. <br />The formative years for both of them were over; they were ready for each other; they were ready to build a life together; they were ready to create their version of the good life. We have much to learn from this couple because their life together was built on high principles. We are indeed fortunate that Helen left us this book.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R29WKO2QAFNRVM	0853984298	123838384	Unlocking the Gate of the Heart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This book may contain the key to personal transformation	Stephen Covey, in his book Principle-Centered Leadership, talks about the need for a paradigm shift in our approach to how we develop ourselves and our organizations; to be effective leaders we need to return to spiritual and moral values, center our lives on inviolate principles and subordinate ourselves to higher purposes. Thoresen has come to somewhat similar conclusions and helps us to do three things - gain an understanding of our place in creation; change our attitudes and life styles; and discover methods to use in our search for greater perfection. In this way we can better serve mankind and help to create a world society based on spiritual and moral values.<br />Humans are like a mine full of gems of inestimable value with the potential to reflect and reveal all the attributes and powers of the Creator but in our headlong rush into materialism we have neglected our spiritual roots and fall short of our potential.  A spiritual revival of the individual and of society is the greatest challenge facing humanity. Most of the content of this book is taken from Bahai sources and is presented in such a way that we can start to re-learn some of those profound spiritual truths which were more familiar to past generations in less materialistic times. Spiritual poverty is the most obvious characteristic of today's urban and industrial society and this is what concerns Thoresen. Unfortunately, persecutions and conflicts inspired by religious differences and fanaticism have turned many away from religion and from our spiritual roots. However the Bahai Faith, being founded about 150 years ago, has a &quot;modern&quot; approach to religion and a greater relevance to today's situation. <br />Assisting the individual to improve his or her spiritual condition, to know God and to serve God is the purpose of this book. But it does not stop there because the author helps us to transform those insights and inspirations into concrete actions. By providing a multitude of approaches, the reader is able to select the most helpful method with the suggestion that we work with this for a few weeks to make sure that it is right for us. The following passage is typical of many quotations in this book: &quot;Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed by God, the angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every righteous man to throb. Though he may at first remain unaware of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must needs sooner or later exercise its influence upon his soul. Thus have the mysteries of the Revelation of God been decreed by virtue of the will of Him who is the Source of power and wisdom.&quot;<br />Many people in the West have lost contact with spiritual and meditative traditions so we need help to develop our spiritual capacities. This book may well contain a key to personal transformation that will start  a long and exciting journey; there are no short cuts to the wisdom of life.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1M89FABBM3KDC	0853984530	83621249	Global Governance and the Lesser Peace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Should be studied by all thinking people	The breakdown of the WTO talks has its foundation in the spoils of war and in the system of world governance established after World War II. The victors created a system which assured their ascendancy rather than devising a system that is fair to all the world's people based on the Golden Rule of &quot;Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.&quot; Now that the concept of sustainable development has forced itself onto our agenda, the first test of sustainability is to check it out against the Golden Rule. The message that the 'have nots' are trying to convey to the 'haves' is that a system of global governance based on &quot;Whoever grabs the most toys before the bell rings is the winner&quot; and which ensures that the gap between rich and poor grows wider rather than smaller is no longer acceptable and is certainly not sustainable. Stephen Covey tells us that the only sustainable system is one based on 'win-win' so it was like a breath of fresh air to discover this book in which Fordm Katirai has provided ideas to establish a new and just system of international governance.<br />Pointing out that a new system of governance cannot be born of anything but a consensus hammered out by all stakeholders, the author provides an overview of governance literature from a large variety of sources - something that is invaluable in itself. As some sources go back centuries a critique is provided to help us understand impracticalities in today's world. The author goes on to say: &quot;The Bahai faith, a new religion born in the middle of the 19th century, was the first religious system to set out a comprehensive and modern vision of global governance. The Bahai writings and teachings contain fresh normative values as well as that same innate legitimacy with which Christianity and Islam have in the past imbued the systems of governance that flourished in their wake. The writings of the Bahai faith therefore have a vital place in the essential literature pertaining toglobal governance.&quot; The literature review takes up a third of the 150 pages, followed by chapters on &quot;Evolutionary Trends Towards World Unity since the First World War&quot;; Lessons from the League of Nations and the United Nations&quot;; &quot;The Modus Operandi of a New System of Global Governance&quot;; and &quot;The Issues for Deliberation by a World Summit on Global Governance.&quot;<br />All of us fear change and it is only human to put off initiating something as radical as living the Golden Rule rather than just voicing it. But there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come. This book should be studied, discussed and evaluated by all thinking people. Those who do not want to live through today's equivalent of the French Revolution need to put pressure on our leaders to introduce a fair and just system. Studying this book is an excellent place to start the process.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R1XV6M2RIQBSQZ	0670818941	772498023	The Complete Book of Herbs: A Practical Guide to Growing and Using Herbs	Books	5	16	21	N	N	A real treasure	Most National Trust properties in the UK are grand old manors originally owned by nobility who liked their comforts and had the means to do things right. Unfortunately their upkeep is prohibitive in cost and many buildings and grounds have been deeded to the Trust that does an excellent job in maintaining them, educating us on the traditions of those times and making them available to the public. As herb gardens were almost always a part of the original master plan, wherever possible they have been restored and we are very fortunate to have a glimpse of this part of the life of the well to do of an earlier era. Collectively, the National Trust must have as many different varieties of herbs as can be found in the country and we are fortunate indeed that we have this book which is indispensable for anyone who wants to understand why our ancestors put such great emphasis on herbs, the value of herbs to us today and how to cultivate a selection in our own garden. Not only are herbs a delight to the touch, smell, taste and sight but you can have a herb tea garden, a culinary herb garden, a medical herb garden, a flowering herb garden and a fragrant herb garden. Moreover, we are told which herbs are suitable for edgings, low hedges, ground cover or a variety of other uses which make herbs multi-functional.  <br />We are told that there was a time when all plants were important to human kind - they were thought of as children of mother earth - each marked by divinity, worthy of respect and important on the physical, mental and spiritual levels. Today, herbs are considered by many to be useful only as seasoning in the kitchen. Study of the history of herbs, going back 5000 years, is intriguing in itself for their use in ceremony, magic, medicine and superstition. Drinking water from a stream with Chrysanthemums was thought to bestow longevity. Greek and Roman records describe and illustrate 600 healing plants. Other ancient texts devote themselves to perfumes, saying that the best marjoram essence came from the Greek Island of Cos, the best Cypress from Egypt, and the best saffron from Rhodes. In England there were treatises on culinary herbs with details of the part of each to be used - seed, flower, bud, leaf, stalk, or root and how it was best prepared - raw, chopped, steamed, blanched, or pickled. While there is so much interesting history and background information, the bulk of the book is taken up with one page devoted to each herb. When it comes to use, there are beautiful sections on herbal decorations, herbs for the household, herbs for massage and herbs for beauty. For the section on herbs in the kitchen there are recipes for six soups, nine fish dishes, 13 meat dishes and many savory, vegetable, side dishes, salads, snacks, deserts, breads, cakes, biscuits, preserves and drinks.<br />In the introduction under the heading of 'The lure of herbs today' we are told: &quot;Recently there has been a tremendous surge of interest in herbs. Research on medicinal and cosmetic uses and new ideas for decorative and scented applications are continually adding to the large body of herbal knowledge and skills. The object of this book is again to combine traditional with scientific knowledge and present the many innovative ways herbs can be used to enhance life in the home and at work. The practical approach will, I hope, encourage you to further inventiveness by providing a glimpse of the inexhaustible potential of herbs&quot; and &quot;If pressed for the reason for my new-found enthusiasm, I would say how delicious herbs were and that they could transform an ordinary dish into a culinary delight, or I would explain how handy they were with a growing family for treating colds, coughs and other minor ailments, but in truth these were the extra benefits. The real pleasure for me was just being with the herbs.&quot;<br />For those who have not yet felt the urge to grow herbs, this book with its magnificent photos and helpful text is a perfect way to start. For those who are already growing a handful of herbs, this book will surely alert you to many more that you should experiment with. Even for the herb addict this book will be a useful addition to the library. It is difficult to think of anyone who would not profit from this truly beautiful work. Even for those city dwellers with limited space there are ideas for the patio, balcony and indoors. There is even a page on a children's herb garden and a moonlight garden.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R3NAASPW81JQGY	0156423502	616466091	The Hundred Dresses (Voyager Books)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Every child should read this book	My eight-year old son was given 'The Hundred Dresses' as a vacation book report assignment. Wanda Petronski was laughed at at school for her name, for her faded blue dress that didn't hang right and for offsetting her poverty by tales of her hundred dresses at home. But her dress was always clean, washed daily herself because she had no mother and often it would not be dry by next morning. There was a drawing competition and Wanda submitted 100 drawings of her dresses and she won the girls' prize. But by the time of the announcement of the winners Wanda had been moved to the city because of the teasing. Some deep soul searching was triggered in a  concerned classmate whose life was changed for ever as she realized that her passive role had contributed to Wanda's fate. Every child should write a report on this book and its deeper meaning.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R34V7RZSTMPHGX	0722525680	242655137	The Permaculture Way: Practical Steps to Create a Self-Sustaining World	Books	5	51	53	N	N	For anyone who wants to build a better world	What is permaculture? Permaculture is a way of life; it makes maximum use of resources by minimizing waste and maximizing potential; it is a tool for planet-repair; it is a way of creating wealth without causing environmental damage; it is about meeting our own needs without making the lives of other less pleasant; it is about limiting personal consumption but gaining more than you lose; it is about using technology when it is the best way to accomplish a task; it is developing interdependence with the community rather than self-sufficiency; it is about reducing the work required to meet a given end; it is about giving each of us the power to influence the world from our own home. Permaculture is not about getting away from it all but taking control of our lives where we are. It is a concept and a practice with global implications because it is possible under any culture, in any climate and by people with any skills. Permacultue invites you to take care of yourself, your family and your immediate community, and to care for your neighbors in the widest possible sense, all around the globe. Permaculture is based on sound economics while making our lives more harmonious with the needs of the planet.<br />Put in its simplest terms, permaculture asks people to put as much into life as they demand from it; but it starts with each individual because that is what is immediate and within our control and because only we have the power to affect the future by acting creatively for the good of ourselves and others.  Permaculture starts in the home because that is the central point in time and space from which all daily occupations radiate. Designing the home to supply much of its own needs and to consume its own outputs would be a massive contribution to global cleansing. Thoreau, in his book 'Walden' reviews his two-year experiment in simple living as a counter to industrialization and commerce that have driven people into virtual slavery. His remedy was to concentrate on simple requirements to free up time and energy for our spiritual needs. Our house should provide health for the family, peace for the spirit and harmony with the environment - and that is what permaculture strives to attain. Think globally but act locally is a slogan that reminds us, not just of our duty, but of our personal ability to affect change for the better. Permaculture is best expressed in your own garden because gardening exhibits all the qualities of planet-care - it is small scale, local, ethical, and a personal responsibility that brings together all strands of our relationship with nature; it is a common bond between families throughout the world. Permaculture is best expressed through the individual because leadership is so vital to building a better world. Every parent is a leader; every adult and every child can become a leader. All it requires is to do something when you see something that needs doing and that something may be as simple as creating a garden along the lines described in this book. <br />This book shows us how to meet our basic needs while leaving the earth richer; it helps us to relearn the value of nature; it helps us to understand new ways of being wealthy; it helps us to create a productive lifestyle without causing environmental damage. Although the specifics of this book are for the British Isles, the principles and philosophies are universal. At present, the earth cannot keep up with our rate of production and consumption. We must deepen our understanding of the land and our relationship to it. This doesn't mean that we all have to become peasant or subsistence farmers; permaculture seeks more rewarding paths to paradise. This book helps us to design our lives efficiently, not just to feed and clothe ourselves better but to take as little as possible of the earth's space for the production of those needs; to do as little damage as possible to the environment and whenever possible to return as much as possible to nature.<br />DavidBellamy starts his preface with these words. &quot;I have four books in my library which form the cornerstones of my hope for the future: Marcus Porcius Cato's 'Treatise on Agriculture' (about 160 AD); Robert Sharrock's 'History of the Propagation and Improvement of Vegetables by the Concurrence of Art and Nature' (1660); Hans Jenny's 'The Soil Resource' (1980); and Bill Mollison's 'permaculture' (1988). I can now add this book to the collection, for it is of great importance. This is a spring-board text, which relaunches the wisdom of almost twenty centuries into the arena where it is most needed and from which it can be most effective - the rich countries of the temperate world.&quot;<br />At the 2002 Johannesburg World Summit for Sustainable Development, one resolution was to declare a Decade for Education on Sustainable Development starting in 2005. We must now start thinking about what should be included in the new curriculum. Permaculture should definitely be included.  If you want to move away from the consumerist lifestyle; if you want to live by more enduring values; if you are looking for answers to the question 'What can I do about curing our world?'; if you are looking for ways to improve your health and to live more harmoniously with nature; if you agree with Edmund Burke that &quot;for the triumph of evil it is only necessary that good men do nothing&quot;; then this well may be the book you have been looking for. This book should be in the library of everyone interested in building a better world.	2004-01-31
US	51116445	R3B4G8TKF2CM4P	0684842408	458903898	First Things First Every Day: Daily Reflections- Because Where You're Headed Is More Important Than How Fast You Get There	Books	5	15	16	N	N	We need these daily reminders	Our lives are busy and full of change. Keeping our priorities in order while maintaining focus and vision is a constant challenge. We live in a society that loves short cut techniques where there is no short cut, only a path based on principles revealed throughout history. A meaningful life is not a matter of speed and efficiency but what you do and why you do it - and we need to be reminded of this everyday. The best way is to take a few minutes of quiet time before the daily rush. Our hearts and minds need nourishment and this is the purpose of this book - to provide daily nourishment through the daily reading of wisdom literature that can have a profound effect on the quality of our daily decisions by keeping us focused on what is important and preventing us being swept away by urgency.  Covey believes these little daily thoughts will help us do three things - to reconnect with our big ideas and the insights that accompanied learning them; to encourage us to take a little breathing space between events and our response - a space that reconnects us to our inner compass; and to garnish our wisdom literature habit. We need to be constantly reminded of the principles that have been part of the wisdom of every successful individual and civilization. These are some of the readings that made an impression on me:<br />January 4: Be governed by your internal compass, not by some clock on the wall.<BR>January 5: If the thing you are committed to is principle-centered, you become principle-centered and you walk your talk.<BR>January 11: While you can be efficient with things you cannot be efficient - effectively - with people.<BR>January 14: We need to move beyond time management to life leadership.<BR>January 23: Meaning is in contribution, in striving for something higher than self.<BR>January 29: We choose either to live our lives or let others live them for us.<BR>January 30: The best way to predict your future is to create it.<BR>February 6: The more involved you are,the more significant your learning will be.<BR>February 7: What does it matter how much we do if what we're doing isn't what matters most.<BR>February 14: More than any other factor, vision affects the choices we make and the way we spend our time.<BR>February 18: Vision is the fundamental force that drives everything else in our lives.<BR>February 22: There's no way we can escape accountability. We do make a difference - one way or the other. We are responsible for the impact of our lives.<br />I think that Covey is right. We need a five-minute reminder as we start each day to make sure that we keep our thoughts, plans and priorities pointed in the right direction because where we're headed is more important than how fast we're going.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R2G9H0MXHV4CBZ	093003175X	820797900	The New Organic Grower: A Master's Manual of Tools and Techniques for the Home and Market Gardener, 2nd Edition (A Gardener's Supply Book)	Books	5	127	130	N	N	Difficult to beat this book	Practical idealists, the Shakers demonstrated that it is possible for man to create the environment and way of life he wants, not by complaining about the system but by building their own domain arranged to their liking. Eliot Coleman, farm manager of the Mountain School Program of Milton Academy in Vershire, Vermont, has demonstrated that it is possible to undertake small-scale, commercial farming and gardening without the use of harmful pesticides by using cost-effective, environmentally sustainable methods to produce spectacular results with economy of effort and means. By offering a wealth of ideas; by identifying the most efficient and practical machinery and tools; by offering simple and efficient production techniques; and advising on the most remunerative marketing methods, this book is for the gardener and small farmer who has an unfulfilled dream to established an organic enterprise with minimal expense. When low cost production methods are allied with the right machinery and marketing practices, the viability of the 1-5 acre farm producing high quality food is not only possible but also enjoyable and profitable. <br />The advantage enjoyed by the small farmer is quality. If the product is first class and in demand and you are a dependable supplier at reasonable cost there is never a problem finding customers. But it needs hard work and intelligence. When starting in the era of 'get big or get out' there were almost no models of commercially successful organic small farmers to provide inspiration and ideas and where they existed it was exhausting and neither cost effective nor efficient. But by seeking out the best from different parts of the world Coleman found the optimum to be about 2.5 acres per grower - enough to produce quality vegetables for 100 people. Produce from the school farm now set the quality standards for the area. He learned much from Helen and Scott Nearing - they were the most practically organized country people he has met - especiallytheir skills in observation and planning. Coleman sets out the year's work on paper during the winter and has a notebook with sections for each crop. He rotates crops until he finds the optimum - the single most important practice in a multi-cropping program. &quot;The 8-year rotation presented below is a good one to conclude with because it is the one I have followed since 1982. It has been well tested. I have thought about modifying it countless times but never have. Its virtues always seem to outweigh its defects, although that isn't to say it can't be improved. I'm sure it can. But it has been a dependable producer and I offer it here as a tried-and-true example of a successful rotational sequence that incorporates many crop benefits. The goal of this particular rotation is to grow 32 vegetable crops in adequate quantities to feed for a year the community of 60-some people who eat daily in the Mountain School dining hall. Since we have found that we can feed 40 people per acre, the rotation below represents 1.5 acres of land. The salad crops not included here are grown in a separate small salad garden close to the kitchen.&quot; However, the author points out that tomatoes do better being grown in the same place each year fertilized by their own waste.<br />Factors that affect plant growth - light, moisture, temperature, soil fertility, mineral balance, biotic life, weeds, pests, seeds, labor, planning and skill - need to be arranged to the plant's liking with the grower coordinating and combining them into a harmonious whole much like the conductor of an orchestra. Successful farmers understand that their role is to help the seed do what it is already determined to do. Good farming practices such as crop rotation, animal manures, green manures, cover crops, mixed cropping, mixed stocking, legumes, crop residues, and season extension have been used for generations, but removing the limiting factors to plant growth and generating a balanced soil fertility are ultimately the secret of success. <br />There are 22 chapters, each one dealing with an important element of success such as green manures, tillage, direct seeding, transplanting, weeds, pests, harvest, marketing, season extension. In addition there are three appendices on tools, the major vegetable crops and a one-page schematic outline of biological agriculture. If you plan to buy just one book on organic growing, you will find it difficult to beat this book.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R2VZITET8U9JWD	0156423502	616466091	The Hundred Dresses (Voyager Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Every child should read this book	My eight-year old son was given 'The Hundred Dresses' as a vacation book report assignment. Wanda Petronski was laughed at at school for her name, for her faded blue dress that didn't hang right and for offsetting her poverty by tales of her hundred dresses at home. But her dress was always clean, washed daily herself because she had no mother and often it would not be dry by next morning. There was a drawing competition and Wanda submitted 100 drawings of her dresses and she won the girls' prize. But by the time of the announcement of the winners Wanda had been moved to the city because of the teasing. Some deep soul searching was triggered in a  concerned classmate whose life was changed for ever as she realized that her passive role had contributed to Wanda's fate. Every child should write a report on this book and its deeper meaning.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R25QWFWTTFQNZ4	0679720197	551664662	The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers	Books	5	146	150	N	N	Very important information	As the relative strengths of leading nations in world affairs never remains constant, there is an optimum balance between wealth creation and military strength over the long term. Time and again the leading power believed that it could neglect wealth production in favor of military adventures but others waiting in the wings closed the gap, the relative strength was eroded and a long, slow decline of the once-leading power followed. The rise of Europe was not obvious in 1500 considering Ming China, the Ottoman Empire, the Mogul Empire, Muscovy and Tokugawa Japan which were well organized, had centralized authority and insisted on uniformity of practice and belief. European knowledge of the Orient was fragmentary and often erroneous, although the image of fabulous wealth, and vast armies was reasonably accurate. Constantinople fell in 1453 and the Ottoman Turks were pressing towards Budapest and Vienna. Compared with the world of Islam, Europe was behind culturally, technologically and militarily. Few at that point would have predicted that Europe would soon be at the top of the pack.<br />Warlike rivalries between European states stimulated advances, economic growth and military effectiveness. The Habsburg bid for power was ultimately unsuccessful because other European states worked together, the Habsburgs overextended in repeated conflicts during which they became militarily top heavy upon a weakening economic base. The other European states managed a better balance between wealth creation and military power. The power struggles between 1600 and 1815 were more complicated as Spain and the Netherlands declined while France, Britain, Russia, Austria and Prussia rose to dominate diplomacy, and warfare. Britain gained an advantage by creating an advanced banking and credit system and, together with Russia had the capacity to intervene while being geographically sheltered from the center of conflict. Britain also started the industrial revolution before the others, providing a great wealth creation advantage. For a century after 1815 no single nation was able to make a bid for domination, allowing Britain to rise to its zenith in naval, colonial and commercial terms based on its virtual monopoly of steam-driven industrial production. Industrialization spread in the second half of the 19th century tilting the balance of power but also introduced more complicated and expensive weaponry that transformed the nature of war and made the world less stable and more complex. The European Great Powers declined while the US and Russia moved to the forefront. Germany was the only European country to stay with the future world powers; Japan was intent only on domination in East Asia and Britain, with its declining relative position, found it more difficult to defend its global interests. World War I was an exhausting struggle that left Europe and Russia weakened, Japan better off and the US indisputably the strongest power in the world. However, US and Russian isolationism allowed France and Britain to remain center-stage diplomatically - a position they did not justify in power terms - but by the 1930s Italy, Japan and Germany became challengers while Russia was becoming an industrial superpower. World War II eclipsed France, irretrievably weakened Britain, brought defeat to the Axis nations and left a bipolar world with military and economic resources roughly in balance.<br />Most of the book is devoted to tracing these events but the really interesting part of the book lies in the last two chapters where nuclear weapons, long-distance delivery systems and the arms race between the US and Russia changed the strategic and diplomatic landscape. But the global productive balances changed faster than ever before with the EU now the world's largest trading unit, China leaping forward, and Japan experiencing phenomenal economic growth. The US and Russian growth rates have been sluggish and their share of global production and wealth have shrunk dramatically since 1960. In economic terms we are in a multipolar world once again with five large power centers - China, Japan, the EU, the Soviet Union and the US - grappling with the age-old task of relating national means to national ends. Although the US appears to be supreme, the history of the rise and fall of great powers has in no way come to a full stop. Great powers in relative decline instinctively respond by spending more on security and thereby divert potential investment resources, compounding their long-term dilemma. Human kind makes its own history but within certain natural laws which become clear as the reader travels through this absorbing narrative. <br />In Chapter 8 Kennedy says: &quot;What follows is speculation rather than history, therefore it is based upon the plausible assumption that these broad trends of the past five centuries are likely to continue.&quot; But certain trends are firmly in place. In 1951 Japan's GNP was 1/3 of Britain and 1/20 of the US; three decades later it was three times Britain and half the US. Japan has grown to be the world's biggest creditor nation while the US has changed from being the world's biggest creditor nation to the world's biggest debtor nation. This book was written before the destruction of the Berlin Wall and the fall of communism so the projection is outdated. Nevertheless the grand sweep of history presented lends support to Kupchan's argument in 'The End of the American Era' that the defining element of the global system is the distribution of power, not democracy, culture, globalization, or anything else. Add to that more recent projects that by 2020 China will be the largest world economy and that seven of the ten biggest economies will lie in Asia and the picture of the future becomes clearer. If you have the gut feeling that the US has over extended itself militarily compared to its economic base and its position in relation to its competitors, this book will make clear your worst fears.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R4QLMLRPK7P1R	1403915660	167500454	Yugoslavia: A Concise History	Books	5	10	17	N	N	A very good book on a complicated subject	The history of the area known as Yugoslavia is so complicated that the average person will throw up his hands in trying to understand the reasons for Milosevic's ethnic cleansing, NATO's 1999 air strikes against Kosovo and Serbia and the uneasy peace today. As the Ottoman Empire began to crumble, various elements saw their opportunity to hasten the Ottoman withdrawal and grab land and power. The turning point came in October 1912 when Montenegro declared war on Turkey, with the Serbs crushing an Ottoman army in a massed battle at Kumanovo in Northern Macedonia and taking Kosovo. A policy of terror designed to alter the ethnic composition of Kosovo and strengthen Serbia's claims to the province followed, leading to the massacre of about 20,000 Kosovar Albanians followed by torture, maiming, and forced conversions. In May 1913 Serbia and Greece, supported by Montenegro and Romania defeated Bulgaria; Serbian nationalist fervor boiled over as Old Serbia had been recovered, the battle of Kosovo was avenged and the Turk routed. On 28 June 1914 the Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo by a Bosnian Serb; Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia triggering World War I in which 40% of the Serb armed forces and 25% of the total Serb population perished. Serbia was too weak to claim a seat at the diplomatic table when the secret 1915 Treaty of London gave Serbia Bosnia-Herzegovina and a portion of southern Dalmatia where there was a concentration of Orthodox Christians. The abdication of the Russian Tzar in February 1917 robbed Serbia of its most powerful support. Following the war, seven treaties settled various territorial claims, Albania became an Italian protectorate, the Kosova Albanians revolted against Serbian rule, the Yugoslav Communist Party was formed, Tito returned from Russia where he had been a prisoner of war exposed to ideas and methods of the October Revolution, intrigue abounded everywhere jousting for power or justice, anarchy and murder ruled, people profiteered while others went hungry.  Drained of blood and treasure, Serbia struggled to make good its claims against hostile Italian diplomacy while trying to integrate minorities none of which welcomed rule from Belgrade. The communists gained power in local elections and 16 parties were represented in the 1920 elections to choose a constituent assembly. The electoral success of the Communist party with an appeal well beyond the numerically tiny working class, exceeded the worst fears in government circles. \\"The kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes could hardly have got off to a worse start. Of the three founder-peoples, two were recalcitrant joiners. Now a rump 'Serbia' Assembly had passed a law giving apparently limitless power to the executive. The scene was set for two decades of political paralysis, which ended (when it was too late to make any difference) with the partitioning of the state and the outbreak of Hitler's war in the Balkans.\\"<br />Hitler's plans entailed picking off one by one the states created by the Versailles Treaty and Yugoslavia drifted into the Axis sphere of influence. It was the Kosovar Albanians who caught the full force of racial bigotry that surfaced during the 1930s, resulting in murder, dispossession of lands and cultural oppression with the intention of removing them altogether. In 1935 Turkey offered to accept 200,000 Muslims from Kosovo. The communists, many of whom were revolutionaries in the Lenin mould, veterans of the civil war in Spain and with experience of prison and police brutality had their chance to form a formidable clandestine organization. The government was overthrown by a coup in April 1941and in retaliation, the Luftwaffe reduce Belgrade to rubble. In the turmoil of World War II, guerilla war and civil war, the communists gained power, but Tito's regional ambitions had no place in Moscow's plans, leading to the 1948 expulsion of the Yugoslavian Communist Party. Tito's death in May 1980 unleashed inflation, the party's hold on a discontented population weakened and old enmities reemerged. In 1987 Milosevic became effectively ruler of the republic, setting in motion an ugly tide of anti-Muslim sentiments on the 600th anniversary of Kosovo Field in June 1989.<br />The final chapter 'Back to Kumanovo' tells how the second Yugoslavia slowly expired following the fall of communism, the Milosevic years of ethnic cleansing, the 78 days of NATO bombing and Milosevic's arrest in April 2001 and warns that: \\"It does not seem even remotely possible that the Kosovars will accept for ever their present found constitutional status as an integral part of Serbia\\" and \\"Finally, but by no means least, the settlement in Bosnia-Herzegovina is coming apart at the seams, as most people always thought it would\\" and \\" However, the domestic politics of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia may be entering another phase of turmoil\\" and \\"In Macedonia, Bosnia and Kosovo the Balkan crisis continues.\\"<br />Huntington tells us in 'The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of the World Order' that clashes between civilizations are the greatest threat to world peace; that since the end of the Cold War people define themselves by blood, belief, faith and family - ancestry, language, religion, history, values, institutions, tribes, ethnic groups and customs - rather than by nation, ideologies and economics; that the hotspots are on the fault lines between civilizations; that Bosnia was a war of civilizations with Russia providing diplomatic support to the Serbs while Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran and Libya provided funds and arms to the Bosnians; that the philosophical assumptions, underlying values, social relations, customs and overall outlooks on life differ significantly among civilizations, reinforced by the revitalization of religion. The problems in this area of the world are extremely complicated but they will not just go away. Understanding the history of Yugoslavia is the first step and Benson has done an outstanding job in presenting the facts in an unbiased manner for which we should be very appreciative.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R2C447U2ORMSFT	0801485606	901324919	From Reliable Sources: An Introduction to Historical Methods	Books	5	42	58	N	N	Always check out your source of information	History writing is usually considered to have begun with the Greek Herodotus in the 4th century BC with his efforts to distinguish between myth and verifiable stories and that has been the basic problem of writing history ever since. In his history of the Gallic Wars Julius Caesar celebrated the military power of the Romans, along with his own formidable talents as a military leader. Livy fed Roman chauvinism with a history that celebrated eight proud centuries of the Roman past. Thucydides, Polybius, Sallust, Plutarch and Suetonius each brought their own approach or treatment of characters. Augustine portrayed history as an enactment of God's plan. Others wrote accounts to convince readers of the justice of a cause while Guibert of Nogent painted Mohammed in the worst possible light, not caring if the tales were true but only if they helped his case. Matthias Flacius Illyricus's chief purpose was to demonstrate that the Roman Church's claim to be the direct heir of first-century Christianity had no historical basis. Medieval historiography was designed to serve Christianity and in the Middle Ages historians entered the service of lords, monarchs and the state where their primary task was to create glorious pasts, fabricate evidence or select information to give legitimacy to the elite to whom it was offered. <br />Leopold von Ranke is credited with the founding of the scientific method of history writing but even so he betrays an unclerical ideology and a commitment to the national state so historians must always consider the conditions under which a source was produced, the intentions that motivated it and the reliability of that source. They must also consider the historical context in which it was produced - the events that preceded it, and those that followed, for the significance of any event recorded depends as much on what comes after as it does on what comes before. Had the Boston Tea Party of 1773 not been followed by the American Revolution, it would havehad considerably less significance than historians have since given it, and the very same newspaper report of the uprising, in the very same archive, would have had a very different status from the one it actually acquired. Thus, historians are never in a position - and should never imagine themselves being in a position - to read a source without attention to both the historical and the historiographical contexts that give it meaning.<br />Recording history today has become more complicated because we have such a wealth of information such as television recordings, audiotapes, and videos from the man in the street and not just the written word. This book was written as a guide on how to handle this overload of information and to provide ethical ground rules so that we have the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. <br />But the deeper underlying significance of this book is something that all of us must reflect on because we receive viewpoints from different sides of a conflict or different political views and we must understand that any report may also have a hidden agenda or bias. We may not have received the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. If we then go back in history, our beliefs may be founded on the &quot;truths&quot; handed down to us by the victorious faction and may not truly reflect the real truth. As the authors point out: &quot;It is thus one of the primary responsibilities of the historian to distinguish carefully for readers between information that comes literally out of the source itself (in footnotes or by some other means) and that which is a personal interpretation of the material. For the literal content of a citation - what is transcribed from the source itself - historians have no ethical responsibility; for the meaning they impart to that material, of course, they are entirely responsible.&quot;	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R1CEBT9HTXO6A0	0393324400	259780540	Vital Signs 2003: The Trends That Are Shaping Our Future (Vital Signs: The Environmental Trends That Are Shaping Our Future (Paperback))	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A wealth of reliable information	This volume, prepared on an annual basis by the World Watch Institute in cooperation with the UN Environment Program, helps the reader to grasp the big picture by identifying important trends shaping our future and progress towards ecologically sustainable development. It provides a snapshot of the world and is a respected source of facts and figures. &quot;The year 2002 set numerous local and regional records for windstorms, rain intensities, floods, droughts, and temperatures. Economic losses from weather disasters worldwide approached $53 billion, a 93% increase over 2001 losses. The increase was due in part to the return of El Nino in mid-2002. The number of natural disasters totaled about 700; of these 593 were weather-related events. Windstorms and floods accounted for 98% of total 2002 insured losses from natural catastrophes.&quot; Many of the problems arise because of the gap between the rich and the poor - the wealthy impose the heaviest toll through their materials-intensive, pollution-laden lifestyles while the poor live in the worst conditions and over tax cropland, forests, and water resources. Experts and activists are putting forward proposals, expressed at government level by the Millenium Goals and the Plan of Implementation declared at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development, to meet the major challenge of our times - improving the lifestyle of billions of people without wrecking the delicate balance that sustains all life on the planet. While a minority enjoys plentiful food, mobility and cutting edge technology, a large majority worries about daily survival. Hunger is widespread, not because of a shortage of food, but because many lack money to buy grain used to fatten livestock so the wealthy can eat meat. Deep disparities between rich and poor is found between countries but also within countries. The growing economic divide translates into unequal educational opportunities, unfunded social programs, vulnerability to disease and natural disasters, and exposure to armed conflict and human rights violations. <br />The first key indicator is in food trends where grain production is dropping at the same time as meat consumption is growing. The second key indicator is in energy and atmosphere trends. &quot;Measurements taken at Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii show an 18% increase in CO2 levels from 1960 to 2002. Scientists estimate that levels have risen 31% since the onset of the Industrial Revolution around 1750. The current concentration has not been exceeded in at least 420,000 years - and likely in 20 million years. In May 2002, ocean buoys in the central Pacific started reading warmer-than-average temperatures, heralding the onset of El Nino, which persisted into 2003, sharply changing patterns of rainfall, temperature and winds in some regions and contributing to, for instance, droughts in India, Australia, and Africa and floods in Europe. Scientists believe that this El Nino may help push the global temperature to a new high in 2003.&quot; &quot;Long-term trends make it clear that for most islands, as for the world in general, the sea is rising. In the 20th century, global sea level rose 10-20 millimeters per year. The sea level rises from melting continental ice masses and from expansion of the oceans due to climate change.&quot;<br />Economic trends are the third key indicator; there is slow economic growth, foreign debt is declining, advertising spending is flat, tourism growth is shaky, and world heritage sites are rising. Between 1960 and 1995 the disparity in per capita income between the world's richest and poorest nations widened from 18 to 1 to 37 to 1. In addition the inequality gap in most countries is even more pronounced. In the US CEO remuneration grew to 350 times the average factory worker, about ten times higher than in other industrial countries. Farm subsidies of $300 billion per year undermine farmers in developing nations by exporting at 25% to 50% below the cost of production leaving the poor little alternative but to turn to drug crops that are in high demand in wealthy nations. Economic inequities mean that the poor cannot afford drugs for AIDS where the high death rate worsens poverty. Orphans worldwide are increasing with children who have lost one or both parents projected to be 25 million by 2010. While hunger and poverty persist, the number of hungry people worldwide has declined 15% from 1970 and debt forgiveness by the World Bank has increased. Global wind capacity has tripled since 1998 and remains the fastest growing power source.<br />Other areas tracked are transportation and communication; health and social trends and military trends. The second half of the book is devoted to five features where there is much information that you might not expect in such a volume. &quot;Traditional and alternative medicine are increasingly used in part because of accessibility and affordability. People in poor nations obtain them for free by gathering plants in forests and jungles or by growing them in gardens or between crops. In rural areas, traditional healers are also more readily accessible than doctors. In Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia, the ratio of TM practitioners to the population is 1 to 200 or 1 to 400 compared with 1 to 20,000 for doctors trained in more modern medicine.&quot;<br />In a small volume the reader has access to a wealth of reliable information composing the most important trends regarding our world today. There is progress in many important areas but there is still much to be done. &quot;Vital Signs&quot; keeps track of these trends and helps to identify where we must put renewed effort. Everyone should be aware of this valuable book and insist on it being purchased annually by the local library.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R1U8PSTXSS3L3E	0804743851	577558777	Leading with Purpose: The New Corporate Realities (Stanford Business Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Many ideas for improving performance	Corporations exist to produce goods and services that serve the needs of present and future customers. In the intensely competitive knowledge-based markets, change is shaking the very foundations of enterprises. Labor-cost advantages are giving way to capital and knowledge-based advantages; intellectual capital is replacing financial capital. This has caused some corporations to ask why they should exist, who they are, where they want to be, and how they plan to get there in order to work out a strategy for competitive performance that affects the whole organization including choice of leadership and relationships with employees. Ellsworth argues that serving customers' interests, followed closely by attending to needs of employees, will provide competitive advantage in the future. Companies seeking to maximize shareholder wealth may lose out to companies serving society at lower returns, or to companies competing by different rules or evaluating investments on different criteria. If a western company abandons a project with substandard returns it may lose long-term competitiveness in that market, but the alternative is, in effect, the conscious destruction of short-term shareholder value to prevent a deteriorating market position. The victors will be those companies that promote the greatest number of competitive strategies that focus resources, decisions and efforts on securing greater competitiveness.<br />Employers play an increasing importance in the lives of employees as people need to believe in something greater than themselves; corporations are having to take on responsibilities that religion had in the past by creating an environment that serves worthwhile purposes, supports creativity and accomplishment, and encourages personal growth. Such a climate generates commitment, individual initiative, and an ever-improving workforce that are the well springs of competitiveness. Competition, the dizzying pace of change, rapid technological innovation, and the increasing complexity of doing business, require a significant rethinking of traditional ways of managing employees. On the one hand a new contract has emerged which says: &quot;There is no job security here. You will have a job as long as you find ways to add value. In return for your value added, the company will provide the experience and training needed to enhance your skills and, if necessary, to enable you to be employable elsewhere. You will receive compensation that reflects your contribution.&quot; On the hand, as knowledge becomes ever more critical to performance, the motivation, loyalty and stability of the workforce become increasingly important. Loyalty requires an environment where members think for themselves, candidly stick up for their ideas and challenge conventional wisdom; loyalty is inextricably intertwined with individual initiative, creativity, and openness in the decision-making process. True loyalty will be given only if the organization's purpose is deemed worthy of attachment and devotion. <br />After defining the problems of being competitive in the new environment, the author provides a winning ideology for the 21st century, provides guidelines for arriving at a mission of meaning and value and details the ground rules for leadership, for attracting and retaining high-caliber personnel and for motivating employees. It is difficult to imagine anyone who would not come away with ideas for improvement after reading this book.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R191F5BIMBB152	0393325237	754253817	Plan B: Rescuing a Planet under Stress and a Civilization in Trouble	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Required reading	This book is in three sections - the first part provides facts, figures, charts and tables to define the problem; the second part - Plan A - projects the future under the business as usual scenario; the third part - Plan B - is Brown's recommendations of what we must do.  The problem has the following components: <BR>- over the last 50 years world population has doubled, the global economy has expanded seven fold and our claims on the earth are excessive; <BR>- we are cutting trees faster than they can regenerate, overgrazing rangelands, over pumping aquifers and draining rivers; <BR>- soil erosion of cropland exceeds new soil formation; <BR>- we take fish from the oceans faster than they can reproduce; <BR>- we are releasing CO2 into the atmosphere faster than nature can absorb it, creating a greenhouse effect raising the earth's temperature; <BR>- habitat destruction and climate change are destroying plant and animal species faster than new species can evolve.<br />Throughout history man has lived on the earth's sustainable yield but humanity's collective demands surpassed the earth's carrying capacity in 1980 and by 1999 exceeded carrying capacity by 20% creating a global bubble economy. &quot;The sector of the economy that seems likely to unravel first is food. Eroding soils, deteriorating range lands, collapsing fisheries, falling water tables, and rising temperatures are converging to make it more difficult to expand food production fast enough to keep up with demand. In 2002, the world grain harvest of 1,807 million tons fell short of world grain consumption by 100 million tons, or 5%. This shortfall, the largest on record, marked the third consecutive year of grain deficits, dropping stocks to the lowest level in a generation.&quot; Trying to fill the 100 million ton shortfall, feeding an additional 70m people each year, reducing the number of under-nourished and rebuilding stocks is likely to further deplete aquifers, increase erosion and raise food prices.Farmers face two challenges - rising temperatures and falling water tables. The 16 warmest years on record have all occurred since 1980 with the three warmest in the last five years and this adversely affects grain harvests, forcing traditional grain exporting countries like Canada to reduce or cease exports. World wide 70% of water is used for agriculture, 20% by industry and 10% for residential purposes. Water mining due to governments' failing to limit pumping to sustainable yield has increased pumping costs and reduced profit margins when grain prices are at a historical low, obliging many farmers to withdraw from irrigated agriculture. Industrial demands are increasing and industry can afford to pay much more for its water than farmers. Sandra Postel in 'Pillar of Sand: Can the Irrigation Miracle Last?' details a bleak picture of what is in store for us regarding falling water tables, rivers which don't reach the sea and the impact on food production. China is such a populous country that whatever happens there impacts everyone in the world. China's deserts are expanding and the US Dust Bowl of the 1930s is being reproduced there but on a much bigger scale. China's forthcoming grain deficit will force up grain prices. &quot;Many of the most populous countries of the world - China, India, Pakistan, Mexico, and nearly all the countries of the Middle East and North Africa - have literally been having a free ride over the past two or three decades by depleting their groundwater resources. The penalty of mismanagement of this valuable resource is now coming due and it is no exaggeration to say that the results could be catastrophic for these countries and, given their importance, for the world as a whole.&quot; Many countries are living in a food bubble economy; the question for these countries is not whether the bubble will burst, but when.<br />The food bubble economy is just the first of the bubbles that the author explains. If we continue with business as usual- Plan A - the troubles described will continue or worsen; the world is failing environmentally and will eventually fail economically. &quot;In sum, no one knows exactly the extent of our excessive claims on the earth in this bubble economy. The most sophisticated effort to calculate this, the one by Mathis Wackernagel and his team, estimates that in 1999 our claims on the earth exceeded its regenerative capacity by 20%. If this overdraft is rising 1% a year as seems likely, then by 2003 it was 24%. As we consume the earth's natural capital, the earth's capacity to sustain us is decreasing. We are a species out of control, setting in motion processes we do not understand with consequences that we cannot foresee.&quot;<br />Einstein told us that you can't hope to get out of a problem with the same thinking that got you into the problem so we cannot expect Brown's proposed solutions to be readily accepted or popular. However, they all practical and make sense. Most proposals are familiar but few holding positions of responsibility have been willing to implement them because Plan A gains more votes and today's politicians are unlikely to be around when the leaders of tomorrow have to pick up the pieces. &quot;Plan B is a massive mobilization to deflate the global economic bubble before it reaches the bursting point. Keeping the bubble from bursting will require an unprecedented degree of international cooperation to stabilize population, climate, water tables, and soils - and at wartime speed. Indeed, in both scale and urgency the effort required is comparable to the US mobilization during World War II.&quot; <br />This book is not just for environmentalists; it is of interest to every housewife who will shortly see her housekeeping money pay for less and less. This book should be required reading for everyone who hopes to be alive in a few years time.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R1T4TY5RJIM9GE	0743234952	444632912	Holy War, Inc.: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden	Books	5	6	9	N	N	We should study this book carefully	In compiling this book, Peter Bergen learned of the Taliban's extreme religious vision, talked with child soldiers willing to die for the cause, and interviewed the world's most wanted man. In the late 1970s bin Laden was influenced by an extremist, international jihardist network, the overthrow of the Shah of Persia by the Ayatollah Khomeini, the peace deal between Egypt and Israel, the seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He lost his father at an early age: &quot;My father was very keen that one of his sons should fight against the enemies of Islam.  So I am the one son who is acting according to his father's wishes.&quot; As Muslims rallied to Afghanistan's support, bin Laden built safe havens and rudimentary hospitals inside the mountains. The Russians killed a million people, forced a third of the population into exile and destroyed countless villages; it was a war of the infidel against Muslims. The lessons learned there are now being used to carry the war against all infidels and all the enemies of Islam with the help of about 4000 well trained and highly committed Afghan veterans the majority of whom are part of a loose world-wide network. The dual attacks in New York and Washington were the deadliest salvo in the decade long war against the US which started with the bombing of a Yemen hotel housing American soldiers. The suicide bombers were well-educated, technically savvy men who blended well with their American communities; they looked and acted like the increasingly diverse US of the 21st century. The destruction of the World Trade Center has to be viewed as just one incident in a long series into the distant future.<br />In this book we gain an insight into bin Laden's political views, why he advocates violence against Americans, the perceived injustices visited upon Muslims, his intention to topple the Saudi regime and replace it with rule aligned to the 7th century teachings of the Prophet Muhammad, the jihad against the American government for its support of Israel and his goal of driving Americans from all Muslim countries. Governance of al-Qaeda is through a policy-making council that makes executive decisions passed to committees for implementation. Al-Qaeda can be thought of as a multinational holding company, headquartered in Afghanistan, chaired by bin Laden and with a financial and business network comparable to an international corporation. Graduates of the training camps export terrorism and holy war to every corner of the world. The Internet allows recruitment tapes to be downloaded; websites are devoted to teaching terror tactics. Al-Qaeda is to terrorism what the Mafia is to crime. <br />The west is dealing with an extensive network of highly committed, very capable people who seek martyrdom for their cause and against whom a military solution is no solution. Their motto is &quot;Jihad and the rifle alone: no negotiations, no conferences and no dialogues.&quot; For the terrorist jihad is an obligation. Even if we capture or kill the leaders, there are hordes of new recruits waiting in the wings to continue their acts of terrorism. To combat this new enemy we need to understand what drives the mastermind and his council; only then can we hope to be successful in meeting the challenge that lies before us. Peter Bergen has done an excellent job of providing us with much that we need to know. We would be wise to study this book very carefully.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R3FK7IZVJLJ9N3	0374513252	276563136	Thoughts In Solitude	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Great wisdom if you are ready	The title of this book derives from 1953/54 when Merton was able to enjoy special opportunities for solitude and meditation; the contents of this book are thoughts on the contemplative life and fundamental intuitions that seemed, at that time, to have importance. As such, the chapters do not necessarily relate to one another and are, as the title suggests, a collection of thoughts while in solitude.  &quot;It is quite likely that intuitions which seem to be most vital to the writer will not have much importance for others, who do not have the same kind of vocation.&quot; For the writer, these reflections on man's solitude before God and man's dialogue with God in silence are essential to his monastic way of life. It is a counterbalance to totalitarianism and the murderous din of materialism that must not be allowed to silence the voices of the Christian Saints, Oriental sages like Lao-Tse or the Zen Masters or Thoreau, Martin Buber or Max Picard. &quot;What is said here about solitude is not just a recipe for hermits. It has a bearing on the whole future of man and of his world and especially, of course, on the future of his religion.&quot; Part I is composed of 19 thoughts on aspects of the spiritual life; part II of 18 thoughts on the love of solitude<br />The desert, supremely valuable to God because it has no value to men, is the logical dwelling place for the solitary with nothing between himself and his Creator. But as man has moved into the desert for testing nuclear weapons or building casinos, the desert moves elsewhere. The new desert is despair.<br />All temperaments can serve as material for ruin or for salvation; if we make our temperament serve us we can do better than another who serves his temperament. The things we love tell what we are. A man who sins but does not love his sin is not a sinner in the full sense of the word. Even if we are temperamentally inclined to anger, we are still free not to be angry. We are free to desire either good or evil.Too many ascetics fail to become saints because their rules and ascetic practices have merely deadened humanity instead of setting it free to develop richly, in all its capacities. <br />Jesus had a clear vision of God but experienced our human emotions of affection, pity, sorrow, happiness, pleasure, grief, indignation, wonder, weariness, anxiety, fear, consolation and peace. If we are without human feelings we cannot love God as we are meant to love Him - as men. <br />Our five senses are chilled by inordinate pleasure. Penance cleans the senses and gives them back their vitality. Lack of self-denial and self discipline is the cause of mediocrity of much devotional art, much pious writing, many sentimental prayers and many religious lives. &quot;Some men turn away from all this cheap emotion with a kind of heroic despair, and seek God in a desert where the emotions can find nothing to sustain them. But this too can be an error. For if our emotions really die in the desert, our humanity dies with them. We must return from the desert like Jesus or St. John with our capacity for feeling expanded and deepened, strengthened against appeals of falsity, warned against temptation, great, noble, pure.&quot;<br />No amount of technological progress will cure the hatred that eats away the vitals of materialistic society like a spiritual cancer. The only cure is spiritual.<br /> A purely mental life may be destructive if it leads us to substitute thoughts for life, ideas for action. Our destiny is to live out what we think. It is only by making our knowledge part of ourselves, through action, that we enter into reality.<br />Real self-conquest is the conquest of ourselves by the Holy Spirit. Self-conquest is really self-surrender. <br />Laziness and cowardice are two of the greatest enemies of the spiritual life and they are most dangerous when masked as discretion. The problem is that discretion is one of the most important virtues.<br />&quot;Why should I want to be rich,when you were poor? Why should I desire to be famous and powerful in the eyes of men, when the sons of those who exalted the false prophets and stoned the True rejected You and nailed You to the Cross? Why should I cherish in my heart a hope that devours me - the hope for perfect happiness in this life - when such hope, doomed to frustration, is nothing but despair?&quot; <br />Thomas Merton has great wisdom to pass on to us if we are ready to receive it.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R19HO9ZHNJF1HJ	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	You really must study this book carefully	Senator Al Gore won high praise for this book from Bill Moyers because he &quot;faces honestly the unremitting evidence of science&quot;; from M. Scott Peck for &quot;clearly pointing the way we need to change to assure the survival of our grandchildren&quot;; and from Carl Sagan who tells us that &quot;mitigating the crisis will require a planetary perspective, long-term thinking, political courage and savvy, eloquence and leadership - all of which are in evidence in Al Gore's landmark book.&quot; As a child the author watched eight acres an hour of top soil being carried away in the Mississippi River while his mother explained the implications of Rachel Carson's 'Silent Spring'; as a student his professor explained the profound and disruptive change in the global climate due to the carbon dioxide build up in the atmosphere measured at Mauna Loa; as a serviceman in Vietnam he learned of the results of using Agent Orange; as a Congressman he investigated hazardous waste dumps such as Love Canal and learned of our leaders' powerful and determined opposition to the truth and their unwillingness to think about the comprehensive nature of the response needed. After reflecting on his own personal role in determining the course of his nation and civilization he ran for President focusing his campaign on global warming, ozone depletion, the ailing global environment and nuclear arms control only to discover that no one was interested in these issues and that the media would not provide coverage. It was a lesson in how political motives and government policies have helped to create the crisis and frustrate finding solutions; it was a lesson about leadership and evasion of responsibility, timidity of vision, avoiding important issues, and postponing difficult choices. He concluded that &quot;Each of us must take a greater personal responsibility for this deteriorating global environment; each of us must take a hard look at the habits of mind and action that reflect - and have lead to - this grave crisis. The more deeply I search for the roots of the global environmental crisis, the more I am convinced that it is an outer manifestation of an inner crisis that is, for the lack of a better word, spiritual.&quot; Gore concluded that the search for truth about the crisis and the search for truth about himself are in fact the same search. Mahatma Ghandi said &quot;We must be the change we wish to see in the world&quot; but Gandhi could say that only after he was asked to tell a boy to stop eating sugar, stopped eating sugar himself for two weeks and only then spoke to the boy. Gore concluded that he had to deal with his own hypocrisy in such things as using CFCs in his automobile air conditioner before he could hope to convince others of the hypocrisy in their lives.<br />Gore examines the crisis from the perspective of the earth sciences, economics, sociology, history, information theory, psychology, religion and from his vantagepoint as a politician. Although very difficult changes in established patterns of thought and action will be required, success is within our capacity and desirable in the interest of social justice, democratic government and free market economics. But we must adopt an attitude similar to that which brought success in World War II where the central organizing principle was total commitment to the defeat of fascism. Following the war and through 1989 the central organizing principle of government policy and society was total commitment to the defeat of communism; this was the reason for the Marshall Plan, MacArthur's blueprint for Japan, the 1947 decision to give massive aid to Greece and Turkey, NATO, foreign aid, the Korean and Vietnam wars, the nuclear arms race, and arms sales to dictators opposed to Soviet communism - all served the same central purpose of defeating communism. Even the interstate highway system, federal aid to education and the space program were tied to the defeat of communism. The Marshall Planconcentrated on fixing bottlenecks impeding growth. Today we need total commitment to a Global Marshall Plan concentrating on five strategic goals - stabilizing world population, environmentally appropriate technologies, changes to the economic rules, renegotiated international agreements, and educating the world's citizens about our global environment - and emphasizing actions and programs aimed at removing the bottlenecks to creating a healthy global economy.<br />This book gives much more than the environmental facts; it helps us understand why our leaders fail in their responsibilities even when presented with indisputable evidence; it helps us understand that we need more political savvy; it helps us understand that you and I are the problem and we have to do as Gandhi tells us - WE must be the change we want to see in the world. Finally it helps us to understand that if we are to take greater personal responsibility, we must be committed. Gore quotes W. H. Murray who is actually partially quoting Wolfgang Goethe who I quote in full because it is only when we accept Chico Mendes' level of commitment that we will work the miracle that is needed to save our world.<BR>&quot;Concerning all acts of initiative and creation,<BR>there is one elementary truth, the ignorance of which<BR>kills countless ideas and splendid plans;<BR>that the moment one definitely commits oneself,<BR>Providence moves, too.<BR>All sorts of things occur to help one,<BR>That would otherwise never have occurred.<BR>A whole stream of events issues from the decision,<BR>Raising in one's favor all manner of unforeseen incidents and<BR>Meetings and material assistance, which no person could<BR>Have dreamt would have come his or her way.<BR>Are you in earnest?<BR>Seize this very minute!<BR>Whatever you can do, or dream you can do, begin it!<BR>Boldness has genius, power, and magic in it.&quot;	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R3LNF8WWJAO5U2	0805072993	709946620	Answering Only to God: Faith and Freedom in Twenty-First-Century Iran	Books	5	5	7	N	N	We need to read this book	In the late 1990s, the Islamic Republic adopted a policy of cautious outreach to the world and Khatami's landslide victory in 1997 raised hopes of a more moderate regime in Iran, with democracy, a free press, the free flow of information, political and religious tolerance, and participation by women and minorities.  However, this revolution in thinking brought Khatami's government into conflict with the ruling clerics with their own vision of an Islamic society. Based on interviews conducted during their residence from 1998 to 2001, Abdo and Lyons concluded that the clerical establishment is still very powerful and is able to block any move not to their liking. As a consequence little if any of the hoped for changes have taken place. All politics in Iran stem ultimately from theological conflict and the deep doctrinal, philosophical and political differences separating the Sunnis who dominate the broader Islamic world and the Shi'ites who recognize only the authority of Mohammed's direct heirs. Both sides believe in preserving the Islamic system, but it is the degree of flexibility and independence within the system that forms the basis of their disagreement. Currently there are two issues which are being fought behind the scenes - will it be the democratically elected or the clerics who rule Iran and will it be the Sunnis or the Shi'ites who will win the battle for the minds of the young people.<br />According to Shi'ite texts the first eleven heirs to the Prophet Mohammed were killed by agents of the rival Sunni Caliphs and the twelfth Imam went into hiding, announcing in 941 that he was severing his earthly ties to return at the end of time to usher in a reign of perfect peace and justice. The Sunni clerical class assumed the rights and privileges once reserved for the Imams, including the collection of obligatory religious taxes, convening Friday prayers and defensive war against the infidel. Weakened by World War II, Britain ceded its influence in Iran and in the Middle East to the US which played a central role in the 1953 overthrow of Mosadeq who intended to nationalize the British-owned oil industry. The CIA assisted the Shah's intelligence service; US businessmen became more influential; American servicemen and their families appeared in large numbers; and western culture ran rampant through a traditional society. It was the political mullahs led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, aided by Islamic activists, secular nationalists, militant students, clerics and the leftist militia who brought down the Shah allowing Khomeini to create a Sunni-based theocratic system. The desert city of Qom and the northeastern city of Mashhad make up the intellectual center of contemporary Shi'ism where many interviews took place. Below the surface Qom is seething with discontent over the clerics' 20 year experiment with direct political power during which universities were purified of un-Islamic influences by firing professors, expelling students and burning books; the secondary school system was reorganized; the penal codes were rewritten; western businesses were nationalized and the Shah's assets seized. Ten centuries after the disappearance of the 12th Imam, many Shi'ite clerics believe that the Sunnis have neither the authority nor the right to involve themselves directly in politics, which by definition has been corrupt and illegitimate since the Greater Occultation. <br />Following 9/11 a consensus emerged overnight that Islam had declared war on the West. But bin Laden's primary grievance concerns the shortcomings of the Arab rulers and not the values or lifestyle of the decadent west. Moderate Muslims are trying to find ways to adapt Islam to the demands of the modern world, which puts them at odds with extremists like bin Laden. Even so, it is only when the West intervenes in the Muslims' pursuit of Islamic purity and religious salvation - either by supporting repressive rulers perceived to be illegitimate in religious terms or interfering directly in domestic politics in the Muslim world - that it too becomes the enemy. One passage in particular caught my eye: &quot;The battle for the hearts and minds of seminarians is critical to the struggle among the clerics, for these students represent not only the future of the clerical class but they also act as aides, researchers, and even propagandists and recruiters for the senior ulama who head the religious schools and institutes.&quot; Huntington in 'The Clash of Civilizations' warns us that the Muslim population is likely grow from 18% of world population in 1980 to 30% in 2025, that the Protestant Reformation was one of the outstanding youth movements in history and that the youth of Islam are already making their mark in the Islamic resurgence. Peter Bergen in 'Holy War, Inc' tells us that one of bin Laden's goals is to topple the Saudi regime and replace it with rule aligned to 7th century teachings of the Prophet Muhammad. What happens in Muslim countries will have an increasing impact on our lives in the west and such issues as who rules Iran and who will win the battle of the minds for the young people will set the trends for decades to come. For anyone who wishes to have an understanding of the big issues of our time this book is required reading.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	RXFF3LXA9UMCX	0691074372	110491835	Searching for a Corporate Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charismatic CEOs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Study this book if you are looking for a CEO	The selection of a new CEO can be as mysterious as the election of a new Pope, the opacity raising questions about the efficiency and legitimacy of the decisions reached. Because external CEO searches are generally undertaken by companies in the throes of a real or perceived crisis, stakeholders hope the outside CEO will be their savior. Because single-handedly saving a troubled corporation is no ordinary job, boards bent on finding a corporate messiah are not interested in ordinary qualifications but a person who is thought to possess charisma. Enron's Skilling offers a dramatic and instructive illustration of the perils of charismatic corporate ladership. Corporations would do well to reconsider their models of leadership and ways of choosing leaders.<br />In the decade following McCoy's appointment as CEO, Chicago's Bank One Corporation acquired over 100 banks, moved from 37th largest bank to fourth, and stock increased 500%. In 1999 Bank One began to falter, the stock fell, integrating First Chicago was more difficult than expected, the conservative style clashed with the entrepreneurial culture and McCoy's management style, which was included in the Harvard Business School's required general management course, was seen to be a liability rather than an asset. A revolt gathered steam and a generous separation agreement was negotiated. Stock jumped 11% on the announcement but became volatile with media coverage of the high-profile search for the best person in the US to lead Bank One back to the top with the leadership as the overriding principle guiding the search. Dimon was top of the short list. &quot;In late February, Dimon flew into Chicago to deliver a two-hour presentation to the Bank One search committee. By this time, he had decided he wanted the job. Dimon's presentation seemed to leave his audience breathless. He talked about his philosophy of management, covering such topics as his leadership style and the importance of clearly articulating to people their roles and responsibilities. He also spoke about the importance of instituting a more extensive stock-option plan to better align the incentives of the executives with those of the shareholders. Dimon's bluntness and self-confidence impressed the committee.&quot; He wasn't afraid to lead, he said all the right things, he had a plan, he was prepared to make the tough decisions that others wouldn't make. In one brief appearance that Dimon himself largely orchestrated he met Bank One's high standards of leadership.  Dimon was appointed over insider Istock and stock soared 30%.<br />Bank One's CEO succession process followed a familiar script with little emphasis on the company's strategic position and whether the candidate's background was appropriate. If the new CEO is unable to deliver quickly, the wisdom of the selection is questioned. This is the first thread of irrational behavior in what should be a carefully considered process. The leadership school believes that CEOs play a critical role in a firm's performance, while the constraint school believes that internal and external constraints limit the CEO's ability to affect performance. A third school suggests that the pertinent question to answer is 'When does leadership matter?' rather than 'Does leadership matter?' as the leader's impact is highly case-sensitive. &quot;As the Bank One story illustrates, however, it is not only the criteria directors use in choosing a new CEO that calls into question the efficiency and overall rationality of the external CEO market. So do many other features of the search itself.&quot; Not only was the initial boost to the stock price short lived, but the board was questioned on its control over the CEO after five directors, including the internal candidate for CEO, &quot;volunteered&quot; to retire from the board after five months. Whether the benefits would be worth the price agreed by the board would remain an open question for an unforeseeable length of time. <br />&quot;How are we to account for these remarkable, ultimately disquieting features of the external CEO search: the overestimation of the CEO's role and the fixation on charisma; the somewhat Byzantine nature of the search process itself, simultaneously closed to many presumably qualified candidates and open to the influence of many external actors; and the questionable outcomes that this process often produces? This book is an attempt to answer this very question.&quot; Boards seriously underestimate the damage that outside succession entails and if the firm is already in trouble, hiring an outside CEO might threaten the survival of the organization itself. A remarkable feature of the Bank One search was that the board passed up an experienced, highly qualified executive who knew the company and its business well. The airplane interview technique in which the incumbent CEO conducts a surprise interview with successor candidates individually and asks who should lead the company assuming both are killed provides very interesting information about the chemistry of the group. Repeating the process three months later when candidates are better prepared but only the incumbent CEO is killed, provides further valuable information. All information is shared with those involved in the final decision. If the process is initiated early enough, the shortlisted candidates can be moved into testing situations that may help the final decision. <br />Kurana, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior at the Harvard Business School wrote this book based on a study of hiring and firing of CEOs at over 850 of America's largest companies. Anyone who is involved in the selection process of a CEO would be wise to study his findings.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R2FUHBEDBYI9AR	0912776617	298937272	Krsna Consciousness: The Matchless Gift	Books	5	13	15	N	N	We need this education	Humans are originally pure in spirit, pure God, but by living in the world we are contaminated with materialism. Materialistic persons have burdened themselves for temporary happiness. The aim of this book and the work of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness is to awaken mankind to its original, God-like condition and to inform everyone that the duty of a human is to understand his relationship to God. The purpose of the Vedic scriptures is to develop love of God; they tell of a 5-year old prince who went to the forest to seek God, ate fruit and vegetables every third day, drank a little water every sixth day, restricted his breathing, and stood on one leg for six months. It is not necessary for us to practice such austerities, although Krishna Consciousness is based on self control such as giving up illicit sex, drinking too much, eating meat, and gambling. If one wants to advance in spiritual understanding he must accept a life of restriction. Anyone can adopt the process of Krishna Consciousness and perfect his life. <br />All religious scriptures describe lower planetary systems or hell and higher systems or heaven. A living entity can prepare itself for heaven or hell by the appropriate preparation; as you sow, so shall you reap is the law that governs. Sinful activities can be by thought, word or deed and one has to suffer punishment. People do not believe in the next life because they want to avoid punishment, but one cannot avoid the next life nor save oneself from the laws of nature. We may deny the existence of God and His laws but God and His laws are still there. According to the law of karma if we act properly we are rewarded and if we act sinfully we suffer. Wherever we reach in this life is the starting point in the next life. According to the Vedic way of life, if a person commits a sin and counteracts it by penance, that is atonement; one has to execute the prescribed atonement according to the gravity of the sinful activity. Sinful activities are like diseases and one should follow the prescribed cures to become healthy. <br />The message of this book is summed up in the paragraph: \\"Modern civilization is in dire need of an educational system to give people instructions on what happens after death. In actuality the present educational system is most defective because unless one knows what happens after death, one dies like an animal. An animal does not know that he is subject to death or that he is going to have another body. Human life, however, should be more elevated. One should not simply be interested in the animalistic functions of eating, sleeping, defending and mating. A living entity may have abundant supply of food for eating, or many nice buildings for sleeping, or good arrangements for sex life, or a good defense to protect him, but this does not mean that he is a human being. A civilization that is based on these activities should be known as animalistic. Since animals are also interested in these functions, what is the difference between human life and animal life if a human being does not go beyond them? The distinction can be made when the human being becomes inquisitive and asks 'Why have I been put into this miserable condition? Is there any remedy for it? Is there perpetual eternal life? I do not want to suffer. I want to live happily and peacefully. Is there any chance for this?  What is the method or science by which this can be achieved?' When these questions are asked, and steps have been taken to answer them, our human civilization is the result.\\" The answers to these questions are to be found in this book.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	RXWA427ECUW2F	0393323862	489873701	State of the World 2003 (Special 20th Anniversary Edition)  (State of the World)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent information	Established as one of the most authoritative annual guides to progress towards a sustainable future, the 20th edition of the 'State of the World' provides chapters on:<BR>- a review of the year<BR>- the challenges we face<BR>- the rapid decline on the global bird population with 12 recommendations toward a sustainable future for birds and biodiversity<BR>- the link between population, women, and biodiversity with four principles for integrated programs<BR>- the growing threat of Malaria with 10 essential strategies<BR>- new and sustainable energy technologies with eight points for forging a new energy future<BR>- the destructive effect of mining<BR>- uniting divided cities and <BR>- engaging religion in the quest for a sustainable world<br />In his speech opening the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in August 2002, President Mbeki drew on South Africa's precipitous overturning of apartheid as an example of the very rapid progress the world needs to make in combating the challenges before us. If Rio in 1992 provided the long-term road map for the creation of a sustainable world, Johannesburg marked a shift to modest concrete plans of action, building on the Millenium Development Goals agreed by Heads of State in 2000. The substantial involvement of NGOs, committed to social betterment, environmental progress and economic opportunity is accelerating the process of global change by bringing fresh ideas, imposing new pressures, and  by setting up voluntary codes of conduct. NGOs are filling the gap left by governments and their activity may lead to alliances between governments,  NGOs, and UN agencies similar to the 280 partnerships agreed in September 2002. <br />Growing inequality is one of the most disturbing global trends forcing developing countries to assume a bigger role in setting the international agenda. We have one or perhaps two generations in which to reinvent ourselves and overcome the five major threats: increasing numbers of peoplewho lack the means for a decent life; increasing  carbon emissions; risks from toxic chemicals; invasions of species carried in ballast water, packaging, wood products, and crop shipments; ecological decline. Despite the obvious need to change and despite our technical competence,  fundamental change appears to be only a remote possibility. But there are success stories such as the eradication of smallpox and stabilizing world population. A few years ago population was increasing by about 90 million per year and it is now 77 million annually, partly due to AIDS but partly due to rapidly declining birth rates in countries like Iran. Organic farming is now the fastest growing sector of the world agricultural economy, while wind and photovoltaic generating capacity is increasing by about 25% pa. <br />There is growing support for the concept that we must reintegrate the head and heart of society and reestablish spirituality as a partner in dialogue with science. To accomplish this, the two groups will need to surmount the suspicion and misunderstanding that have kept them at arm's length. Religious institutions and leaders can bring five strong asserts to building a sustainable world: the capacity to shape worldviews, moral authority, a large base of adherents, significant material resources, and community building capacities. Despite the many laudable advances, serious obstacles remain to more extensive religious/environmental collaboration. &quot;The challenge for environmentalists and other advocates of sustainability, meanwhile, may be to build a greater appreciation for the importance of spirituality into their own work. Public overtures toward people's spiritual sensibilities could be a powerful step forward for sustainability. This is important not simply to win religious people as allies, but because spirituality is important for development. All development activities are embedded in a cultural context; if pursued unwisely, they can provoke a cultural backlash. The Shah of Iran, in his attempt to &quot;modernize&quot; the country between the 1950s and 1970s, paid too little attention to religious sensibilities and learned firsthand, through the 1979 revolution that dethroned him, how costly this insensitivity can be. By combining their considerable skills and complementary perspectives, environmentalists and religious people can help reunite our civilization's head and heart, re-engaging religion in the quest for a new cosmology, a new world view for our time. Cultural historian Thomas Berry calls this emerging perspective a New Story - the story of a people in an intimate and caring relationship with their planet, with their cosmos, and with each other.   Its ethics would deal not just with homicide and suicide, but equally with biocide and geocide, in Berry's words. It would be as comfortable with awe and wonder as with weights and measures. It would rewrite the story of unrestrained science and technology, of a human species alienated from its own home. It would be a vehicle to guide us to a socially just and environmentally sustainable future.&quot;	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R373S9D85MRQ4Y	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Required reading	Globalization is a new international system with its own rules of logic, pressures and incentives that influence politics, environment, business, and economics in virtually every country; it is the dominant world system that shapes everything else. The new rules are so different from what has gone before and the different threads are intertwined in such a complicated manner that few understand them. Who would have thought that the 1997 collapse of the Thai currency would ultimately lead to the collapse of Long-term Capital Management in the US where two economists had won the Nobel Prize the previous year for their contribution to managing risk? The global market place has become an electronic herd of anonymous traders and investors connected by screens and networks; a herd that knows only its own rules and that will crush any one - and even governments - that stand in its way. Globalization is not a choice but a reality, but the problem is that no one is in charge. <br />Globalization is not new. Round I of globalization took place before World War I and was founded on cheap transportation. There was a period of relative calm until the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of communism triggered Round II which is founded on cheap telecommunications. We can now reach further, faster, cheaper and deeper than ever before. Previously non-tradable services such as accounting, telephone answering and engineering design can now be transferred to low wage countries; production, research and marketing can be located where strategically most advantageous. The Berlin Wall did not just fall in Berlin; other walls came down in other countries at roughly the same time. Three changes caused the walls to fall - how we communicate, how we invest and how we learn. These changes allowed Thailand to move from being a low wage rice producer to the world's second largest producer of pick up trucks and the 4th largest manufacturer of motor cycles in 15 years. These changes give individuals more power to influence markets and nation states than at any time in history - as occurred when investors brought down Indonesia's Suharto in 1998. These changes allowed Jody Williams to win the 1997 Nobel Peace Prize for an international ban on land mines by organizing human rights groups by e-mail. These changes allow us to tune into almost any public or private TV station worldwide so we can now see and hear through almost every conceivable wall. These changes allow a company like Cisco to close its books within an hour and to operate without paper. <br /> Lexus in the title stems from a visit to a Toyota car factory where 66 people and 310 robots produce 300 Lexus sedans daily. Lexus represents our drive for improvement, prosperity, modernization, and innovation. The Olive tree stands for stability, family values, and a sense of belonging. The anonymous, transnational, homogenizing, standardizing forces of the Lexus are the biggest threat to the olive tree. Our challenge is to find a healthy balance between the two while recognizing that competitive pressures oblige us to build a bigger and better Lexus every day. Globalization can be likened to a race that you have to run day after day after day. However many times you win, you still have to run again next day. If you lose by a fraction of a second it is as though you lost by an hour. By just entering the race you threaten the very existence of your own olive tree. By not entering the race you may not even be around to enjoy your olive tree. <br />We cannot hope to understand and manage globalization without reference to all its components and how they interact with each other. Friedman has provided us with a guidebook giving the various components of globalization and suggestions on how we might go about managing globalization. This book is essential reading whether you want to be a Lexus or an olive tree.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	RMM3807PYML23	186152160X	563120439	Success in Sight: Visioning (Smart Strategy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Many ideas for improving performance	This book provides an overview of vision, visioning, leadership and examples of successful leaders but the authors warn us that little or no learning can be transferred from one organization to another because each requires its own distinct approach. Of all strategic management tools, visioning is usually rated first but satisfaction with its use receives a lower rating because a sound platform on which to grow a vision was missing. Visioning is the process by which leaders can articulate the future directions they wish to pursue, focusing on the future of the organization and its role in society. Forming a vision is a complex procedure involving a sophisticated process of discerning and equally sophisticated negotiations with all key stakeholders who need to be involved in achieving the vision. A motivating vision or one that produces &quot;creative tension&quot; implies innovation, departure from past practice and different organizational capabilities. In order to overcome indifference and resistance that major innovation provokes, a champion is required to identify the idea as his own, to promote it actively through informal networks and to risk his position and prestige to ensure the innovation's success. The champion must have the capacity to inspire and enthuse others with his vision of the potential of an innovation. A good place to start is to agree on what has been done well and what the group wants to continue to do well. A well-prepared vision should spontaneously help individuals to take decisions and free people to take initiative. The authors provide guidelines for promoting a shared perspective and generating a corporate vision. <br />One chapter is devoted to Allen Sheppard and GrandMet where the goal was to take a successful company, ensure it continued to be successful, and make it even more successful. Often this situation is more difficult than a typical turnaround, because people do not see the need to change. The top group developed a set of criteria for a vision statement that was so far reaching that it could not be publicized for two years but it led to the sale of 25 companies and the acquisition of Pillsbury. Another chapter presents the remarkable success story of Toray Industries and the role visioning played in its transformation in the decade from 1987. Describing the way in which vision works, H. Maeda said, &quot;We keep the image in our minds at all times when we take decisions on various business matters. Keeping the picture of our company in say, ten year's time, we decide on management strategy and business policy. In a company of this size, the leadership of the president is absolutely crucial. He must be able to exercise his leadership at a fairly practical level, and have a management philosophy as well as an ability to manage. Another important quality he needs is the ability to win the hearts and minds of all employees and to inspire them to focus on the shared goal. I believe that a CEO must be prepared to hear everyone's views, let them discuss thoroughly matters that are important to management, and get totally involved in the process of building up consensus among directors. This will ensure that the future direction of the firm will become firmly established on shared values, but the important point is that there must be constant effort on the CEO's part to create and maintain a forum at which all directors can express their views freely to the CEO. There are many facets to leadership, but to put it simply, it is the ability of the leaders to anticipate what is coming, and the possession of the sense of balance in their judgement.&quot; Few people will read this book and not come away with ideas for improvement.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	RV0F8CNQ86S71	1573225681	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pearls of wisdom	All religions have as their common thread the Golden Rule expressed in Buddhism as: &quot;Hurt not others with that which pains yourself&quot; and in Christianity as: &quot;Do unto others as you would have others do unto you&quot;. Almost certainly, if Jesus and Buddha were to meet today they would embrace each other and tell us that we have misinterpreted their teachings by permitting or perhaps even advocating religious intolerance, religious rivalry, religious hatred, religious fanaticism and religious war. It was therefore like a breath of fresh air to discover a Buddhist monk from Vietnam who thinks, speaks and acts the Golden Rule - a man about whom Martin Luther King wrote: &quot;I Know Thich Nhat Hanh and am privileged to call him my friend. He is a holy man, for he is humble and devout. He is a scholar of immense intellectual capacity. His ideas for peace, if applied, would build a monument to ecumenism, to world brotherhood, to humanity&quot;. In 1947 in Egypt early Christian documents were discovered, believed to have been hidden after orders to destroy them as heretical were given by the archbishop of Alexandria. The Gospel of Thomas resonates with the Buddhist tradition. These long-hidden sources show that the early Christian movement contained much more diversity of viewpoint and practice than later Christians acknowledged or even imagined. Because these teachings were smothered, many Christians today are adamant that the only path to God is via Christianity. Shortly after Buddha died there were two schools of Buddhism; after 400 years there were 20 schools; and today there are many more. Each is an attempt to keep the Buddhist teachings alive under new circumstances. Likewise Christianity has splintered into many groups. It is only by respecting the differences within our own church and seeing how these differences enrich one another, that we can be open to appreciating the richness and diversity of other traditions.<br />Thich Nhat Hanh is not a monkwho lives in a hermitage and runs away from the world. For more than 30 years he has been active in combating poverty, ignorance and disease; rescuing boat people; evacuating the wounded from combat zones; resettling refugees; helping the hungry and orphans; opposing wars; training peace and social workers; and rebuilding villages destroyed by bombs. But he has only been able to do this because of the practice of meditation - stopping, calming and looking deeply. It is only through the practice of deep looking and deep listening, that we become free, able to see the beauty and values in our own and others' tradition and that we know what we should be doing in the world.<br />This book is about interfaith dialogue. &quot;In a true dialogue, both sides are willing to change. We have to appreciate that truth can be received from outside of - not only within - our own group. If we do not believe that, entering into dialogue would be a waste of time. If we think we monopolize the truth and we still organize a dialogue, it is not authentic. We have to believe that by engaging in dialogue with the other person, we have the possibility of making a change within ourselves, that we can become deeper. Dialogue is not a means for assimilation in the sense that one side expands and incorporates the other into its 'self.' Dialogue must be practiced on the basis of 'non-self.' We have to allow what is good, beautiful, and meaningful in the other's tradition to transform us. But the most basic principle of interfaith dialogue is that the dialogue must begin, first of all, within oneself. Our capacity to make peace with another person and with the world depends very much on our capacity to make peace with ourselves.&quot; <br />This book is about seeking peace. &quot;Until there is peace between religions, there can be no peace in the world. People kill and are killed because they cling too tightly to their own beliefs and ideologies. When we believe that ours is the only faith that contains the truth, violence and suffering will surely be the result.&quot; And &quot;When there are wars within us, it will not be long before we are at war with others, even those we love. The violence, hatred, discrimination, and fear in society water the seeds of the violence, hatred, discrimination, and fear in us.&quot;<br />This book is about mindfulness: &quot;In Buddhism, our effort is to practice mindfulness in each moment - to know what is going on within and all around us. When the Buddha was asked, 'Sir, what do your monks practice?' he replied, 'We sit, we walk, we eat.' The questioner continued, 'But sir, everyone sits and walks, and eats.' And the Buddha told him, 'When we sit, we know we are sitting. When we walk, we know we are walking. When we eat, we know we are eating.' Most of the time, we are lost in the past or carried away by future projects and concerns.&quot;<br />This book is about being there for others: &quot;The most precious gift we can offer others is our presence. When our mindfulness embraces those we love, they will bloom like flowers.&quot; This book is about meditation.  This book is about the common ground between Christianity and Buddhism - for the author there is no conflict in having images of both Jesus and Buddha on his hermitage altar. He worships them both; he touches them both as his spiritual ancestors. This book is wisdom. There are pearls of wisdom on every page of this book for seekers of the truth.	2004-01-30
US	51116445	R2BAYLEMZVXB4Y	0813302862	413430355	Master farmer: Teaching small farmers management	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How close are you to your rural customer?	Please don't be mislead by the title &quot;Master Farmer&quot; because this book is about management and will be helpful to all nonprofits. It is addressed to development workers, those who train them and to those concerned with supporting rural community development efforts. On one of his sabbaticals, the author visited Ireland where he discovered the saying &quot;Management is doing what you want with what you've got&quot;. As Director of the American Farm School in Thessaloniki, Greece, the author never had the resources he wanted but he did a superb job with what he had. He would stand up in front of a group of farmers and jokingly tell them &quot;I am going to teach your cows to polka&quot; and then teach the basics of management - Planning, Organization, Leadership, K(c)ontrol, and Adjustment. Hundreds can still remember him emphasizing the philosophy of the school - the head, the hands and the heart - by drawing a spidery man showing the over-evolvement of man from one with a big pair of hands, big heart and a modest sized head into one with a big head, but virtually no hands and little heart. While these lessons are invaluable for those working the land, the same lessons benefit the rural worker in other occupations.<br />Lansdale also believes that &quot;The story of postwar Greece holds invaluable lessons for many developing countries today. In 1947 Greece had just emerged from a decade of war and strife; its villagers were demoralized and fleeing rural life for the cities; and its farms were unable to produce adequate crops to feed its people. In less than forty years Greece has become a major exporter of foodstuffs, most villages have made the transition from underdeveloped to developing, and rural people no longer yearn to move to the cities.&quot; As I view the development efforts since the book was written in 1986, I cry at the money wasted because the decision-makers did not learn from Greece as a development model nor did they take to heart the wisdom in this book.<br />Lansdale became famous for his Hodja stories and if he failed to include one in his frequent talks the audience would not let him leave the room. But for Lansdale Nazredin Hodja was not just a wise legend and a good laugh, he was the tool to bring home his message of training master farmers. Rural life in developing areas is centered on the peasant, a word used by Lansdale with affection, admiration and profound gratitude for their wisdom and what they taught him. That a peasant has something to teach a person with a university degree may seem strange, but Lansdale took to heart Deeming's adage &quot;get close to the customer&quot;, listening rather than preaching, gaining insights and a depth of understanding which most of us would fail to appreciate. The author points out &quot;Many Greek and foreign development workers came to the villages with the idealistic conviction that they understood the peasant's problems and could solve them. However, they soon realized how important it was for the peasants to learn to identify and solve their own problems. Others could introduce modern techniques to the peasants and share new ideas with them, but until the peasants assimilated the ideas, they would have little meaning. The word economics is derived from the Greek word oikos (home). Although any rural development program must rely on effective planning at the national level, development workers must recognize that ultimately success depends on basic economics in the peasant home.&quot; Lansdale then goes on to say &quot;But much of the credit must go to the villagers themselves, particularly to the women, whose role in many cases has been even greater than that of their husbands. These master farmers and their wives are the sergeants of agriculture: the select group of peasants who have acquired the managerial skills to lead the country to its present high level of agricultural production. It is essential that developing nations of the world discover innovative approaches to creating such master farmers and the technicians who support them, by providing adequate management and technical training for subsistence peasants.&quot; And this is what this book is all about - providing adequate management and technical training for progressively more sophisticated and educated peasants.<br />Lansdale starts out the book by helping us to understand the problem. How many of us have got sufficiently close to the peasant to be really sure that we understand all dimensions of the problem, and thus build in failure to the best-laid plans? In this respect the author says &quot;The peasants generally accepted their feelings of helplessness in the face of constant misfortune as inevitable and played a primary role in initiating it. Their misfortune was something neither they nor those who wanted to help them could do much about. In Greece today, progressive farmers have grown to accept change as inevitable. If development workers in Greece and else where are to utilize the peasants' potential for change, they must first understand the characteristics of the villagers that once hindered progress in the Greek countryside.&quot; It is in understanding the characteristics of the villagers that Lansdale found his magic touch. This allowed him to correctly define the problem and then his university training could be used to help. It is because Lansdale was able to climb into the peasant's skin and look out on the world with the peasants eyes and then return home and meld that world view with that of the developed world that he has been able to make such a valuable contribution.    <br />If you do a quiet self-evaluation and suspect that you have not really and truly got close to your rural customer then I recommend that you absorb the wisdom contained in this book.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R19O7XRETSG0UC	0375412158	520721490	The End of the American Era: U.S. Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the Twenty-first Century	Books	5	9	11	N	N	It could be a very ugly world	We all know the first, most basic lesson from history - civilizations rise and fall. There are several parameters that will ensure that a powerful nation secures its supremacy for a prolonged period of time - but the key is enlightened leadership. How is it that one of our leading accounting firms whose founder worked to the highest ethical standards fell during the Enron era? How is that just one American President could turn the world's biggest creditor nation into the world's biggest debtor nation in just eight short years. How is it that Japan lost its supremacy in a decade? Surely the answer lies in having enlightened leadership and a system that ensures that a steady succession of enlightened leaders take the helm and are ready in the wings whenever the call arises. Our present system of electing the leader who can blow his own trumpet the loudest has the seeds of self-destruction. My hero in this respect is Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus, the Roman General who tilled the land in retirement until the empire was threatened and he was twice called to the dictatorship of Rome in 458 and 439 BC. In 458 BC he defeated the Aequians in a single day, and after entering Rome in triumph and with large spoils returned to his farm. No blowing his own trumpet and holding onto power by this general!<br />A wise nation does a simple SWOT analysis - strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats - and formulates a strategy to ensure that it holds on to power. Kupchan reminds us of Churchill's policy in response to the German threat prior to the First World War when, over much opposition, he brought the British fleet back to defend the homeland. But the British leadership was not so enlightened prior to the Second World War; fortunately Churchill was there waiting in the wings. \\"The End of the American Era\\" is primarily about the lessons from history applied to present day America and as you might imagine from the title the author gives a thumbs down on the degree of enlightenmentof the American leadership today. The author points out that there are already signs that American preponderance and the stability it breeds are slipping away. American internationalism was at its high-water mark during the last decade but is now on the wane despite that fact that today's problems require a multilateral approach and reliance on international institutions. Terrorism poses a collective threat and requires a collective response. The tragic events of September 2001 served as a wake up call to America, alerting the country that the homeland is no longer inviolable and that the US would be wise to take greater interest in crucial foreign policy issues. The central challenge of the future will be the same as the past - managing relations between contending centers of power. Other concerns will pale in comparison to the dangers that will emerge if America believes that its primacy is here to stay. The US has unparalleled potential to shape what comes next but lacks a grand strategy; America is a great power adrift. Unfortunately, the intellectual initiative and institutional creativity of 1815, 1919 and 1945 are missing in Washington today. In addition, we do not have a clearly identified enemy but a much more elusive enemy in terrorism - an enemy schooled in guerrilla tactics where patience and tact are more useful weapons than military power. <br />Think tanks turn out work with a short shelf life while universities generate scholarship of little relevance to policy. What should America's new map look like? Is Fukuyama in The End of History right in that liberal democracy is taking the world by storm? Is Samuel Huntington in The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of the World Order right that a struggle among Judeo-Christian, Islamic and Confucian civilizations is in the offing? Is Thomas Friedman in The Lexus and the Olive Tree right that globalization has changed the rules for good? In Kupchan's opinion each vision has its merits but all are wrong. The defining element of the global system is the distribution of power, not democracy, culture, globalization, or anything else. As the US withdraws from multilateral institutions in favor of unilateralism the vacuum will be filled by a new era of geopolitical rivalry. If history is a guide, the end of US primacy will bring with it a more unpredictable and unpleasant world.<br />It is impossible to predict your opponent's next move in chess, let alone predict moves and counter moves on the international scene. However, Kupchan has presented a convincing argument of how the future might unfold. Homeland security must not stand in the way of efforts to address the more dangerous challenge of the return to rivalry between the world's power centers. All this comes together in the final chapter with the closing sentence \\"It is now the task of those convinced by the warnings to get on with the difficult, but essential, duty of preparing for the end of the American era.\\" This book has as its prime audience policy makers and decision-makers. Personally, I think every American voter should read this book and understand that voting for the person who blows his trumpet loudest is not going to put the most enlightened leader in the White House and without enlightened leadership we will most certainly see the end of the American era soon. Then it is likely to be a very ugly world.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R1IAFIMXGFD8H0	0393321932	780900099	Eco-Economy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A convincing vision of a sustainable society	Lester Brown, Chairman of the Worldwatch Institute, which is known for the high quality of its reports, presents his vision of an environmentally sustainable economy - an eco-economy. The purpose of his book is to show that we have no alternative to restructuring the economy if we want economic progress, to describe with some degree of confidence what the eco-economy will look like and to outline a strategy of how to get there in the time available. <br />After cataloguing the grim decline in the planet's ability to carry on with business as usual, and pointing out that mismanagement is destroying forests, rangelands, fisheries and croplands, - the four eco-systems that supply our food and, except for minerals, all our raw materials - Eco-Economy provides hope that the solutions are within our reach, affordable and can lead to new employment opportunities and a higher standard of living. <br />An economy is sustainable only if it respects the principles of ecology; if it does not, it will decline and eventually collapse; there is no middle ground. Relying on distorted market signals to guide investment decisions is a recipe for disaster. We need a change in mind set similar to that when our ancestors accepted that the earth revolves around the sun. <br />Twenty five years ago the concept of environmentally sustainable development - restoring carbon balances, stabilizing population and water tables, conserving forests, soils and plant/animal diversity - was introduced but not one country is progressing satisfactorily on all fronts. Nonetheless glimpses of the eco-economy are visible. Many countries have stabilized their population - the first requirement for a sustainable future, - banned construction of coal-fired power plants or nonrefillable beverage containers, reforested, and encouraged use of bicycles. These are all facets of building a sustainable economy in marked contrast to the fossil-fuel-based, automobile-centered, throwaway economy of today.<br />Perhapsthe most profound change will occur in the energy field where wind-generated energy at a cost as low as four cents per watt is likely to be a major source of energy for the foreseeable future. By electrolyzing water to produce hydrogen during slack times we have the means of storing wind energy and, in due course, of transporting it through defunct oil and gas pipe lines. Use of natural gas will keep expanding for the present as it is an ideal fuel for the transition from a carbon-based economy to one based on hydrogen. Together, electricity and hydrogen can meet all the needs of a modern society. Other renewable sources of energy will play a lesser role. During the 1990s photovoltaic sales increased by an average of 20% per year, climbing by 43% in 2000, while the capacity of geothermal increased by 4% and hydro by 2%. Energy conservation and efficiency is still the best investment we can make with such items as compact fluorescent lamps having a very rapid pay back. The United States could meet the Kyoto protocol by 2010 simply by moving to Europe's energy efficiency levels, which in turn are not yet taking full advantage of the state of the art technologies. <br />The second major change will occur in materials handling. Failure to adopt a comprehensive recycling program has resulted in removing New York City's 12,000 ton daily output of garbage in a fleet of vehicles 15 km long, on the 900 km round trip. A simple measure like recycling paper would shorten the convoy by 4.5kms. Metals are a major problem as their mining and processing are environmentally destructive and energy intensive. Redesigning the materials economy to be compatible with the eco-system includes such measures as easy disassembly for recycling, reducing waste generation, banning throw away beverage containers, improved methods of manufacturing, clustering factories so that waste from one acts as an input to another, legislation requiring a minimum percentage of recycled material and setting azero emissions goal. Most worrying of all is China's rapid rise in standard of living and the world's inability to support a western standard of living with a western way of doing business. As an example if annual paper use in China were to rise to US levels, it would need more paper than the world currently produces. Mr. Brown describes ways to do the same job using far less raw material.  <br />In similar fashion the book deals with agriculture and food, forest products, cities, population stabilization, and leadership.  <br />This book has helped me in two ways. First, I lacked a grand and convincing vision of what a sustainable society might look like and the second was that in a period of such rapid change I feared that an investment today might turn out to be a white elephant tomorrow. I believe that the future painted by Lester Brown is not only possible but is almost bound to happen if each of us do our part, as much is already being put in place. I can adopt his vision as my vision feeling much more confident in my actions and that I can leave a better world to my children and grandchildren.<br />In Bangkok one evening at 9pm all television stations focused on a huge electricity meter while the announcer asked everyone to switch off unnecessary lights and electrical appliances. Everyone was amazed to see the meter wind down enough to switch out two power stations. We have to remember that building a sustainable economy requires both major structural changes in addition to billions of small actions world wide.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R3OSPBK3GX2779	0300101619	865731404	At the End of an Age	Books	5	25	27	N	N	If Lukacs is right the implications are mind boggling	Fleeing from a not yet wholly Sovietized Hungary to the US, Lukacs was convinced 20 years ago that the entire Modern Age was crumbling fast. By 2002 he was able to write that during the past 10 years his conviction had hardened into an unquestioning belief that not only an entire age and the civilization to which he belonged, were passing but that we are living through - if not already beyond - its very end. Even ordinary people when confronted with the moral rottenness with which we are surrounded conjure up thoughts of the last days of the Roman Empire and have a gut feeling that we are seeing the end of the European Age which began about 500 years ago. As late as 1914 the entire continent of Africa was governed by Europe but after two disastrous world wars and 80 years later there is not one European-ruled African state and European colonists have left their Asian homelands. To the observant, the European Age was clearly over by 1945 when super power status was with the US and with Russia. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall we are living through one of the greatest changes in the entire history of mankind - a period when history is being made by majorities whereas it has been made by minorities in the past and when the aristocratic era has been replaced by democracy. Most of the great minds and artists of the last 500 years had bourgeois origins; the Bourgeois Age was the age of the state, money, industry, cities, privacy, family, schooling, representation and science all of which are declining except for the last two. Evidence of decay is mixed with elements of lasting progress such as health, longevity, material comforts, cheap travel, democracy, working conditions and state welfare, but these should not blind us to the reality of decline. <br />The period from 1914 to 1989 was a transitional period and we are now in a new era. The last time something like this happened was 500-600 years ago but then it involved a small minority of people creating the Renaissance, which is not happening now. At the end of the Modern Age, for the first time in 200 years, more and more people in more and more fields of life, have begun to question the idea of progress. A great division among the American people has begun between unthinking believers in technology and economic determination and those who question and publicly oppose more concrete, more automobiles and more noisy machinery ruling their lives. We must engage in a radical rethinking of progress, history, science, limitations of our knowledge and of our place in the universe and this is what this book is all about. <br />Having set the scene, the author devotes several chapters to justifying his argument and it is not until chapter 5: At the Center of the Universe that he says: &quot;And now I arrive at the most dramatic proposition of this book. Contrary to all accepted ideas we must now, at the end of an Age, recognize that we, and our earth, are at the center of our universe. We did not create the universe. But the universe is our invention; and, as are all human and mental inventions, time-bound, relative, and potentially fallible.&quot; He goes on to say that such a hypothesis is neither arrogant nor stupid but hopes that for some people there may be a faint echo of truth. There exists evidence of our central situation in the universe and this means that we must proceed not from a proud but a chastened view of ourselves, of our situation, and of our thinking.<br />Nearing the end of the book Lukacs refers to God. &quot;Throughout this little book I have insisted on the importance of thinking - more exactly: on the present and increasing importance of thinking about thinking. But now I must go further than that - to say something not about thinking but about beliefs.&quot; &quot;And now - especially, but perhaps not exclusively for Christians - I must argue for the recognition of our central situation not only in space but also in time. In sum, that the coming of Christ to this earth may have been? no that it was, the central event of the universe; that the greatest, the most consequential event in the entire universe has occurred here, on this earth. The Son of God has not visited this earth during a tour of stars or planets, making a Command Performance for us, arriving from some other place and - perhaps - going off to some other place.&quot;<br />If Lukacs is right in what he has written, the implications are mind boggling. All thinking people should read this book and take to heart the author's point about the importance of thinking about thinking. This book may well prove to be the watershed in our lives.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R1IIM6DOSS264M	1899171436	516485628	Portrait of the Master	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mother Teressa held St, Francis in high esteem	St. Francis, preaching to animals, dressed in rags and sharing his message of peace through his life of simplicity is one of the best known of the medieval saints. Without possessions nothing could be taken from him and he was in a state of freedom. In the simplicity of his message peasants, nobles, kings and the pope were transformed in his presence. If we are looking for a role model, even though we have no ambitions to be saints, St. Francis must surely be a good place to start. It was a pleasant surprise therefore, to find that James Twyman had not only chosen to write about St. Francis but to give the book the title &quot;Portrait of the Master&quot;. I had also been struck by the fact that Mother Teresa had adopted St. Francis' Prayer of Peace as part of her daily prayer routine, suggesting that St. Francis holds a particular place in her heart.<br />It was clear to some, even in his early days, that Francis was destined for sainthood. &quot;' The founder of our order is about to leave on one of his famous journeys,' the brother superior had told him days earlier, 'and I want you, Brother Leo, to accompany him, and in doing so to capture his likeness on your pad. No one knows where he is off to, but there is seriousness in his eye that I have never seen before. That is what I want you to capture in your drawing, the deep penetration of his gaze when he considers what only a saint can perceive. The portrait you produce will be the official representation of the future saint, so pray to the Blessed Mother that she may guide your hand.'&quot;  <br />Before setting out on their journey Brother Leo said to Francis &quot;The second thing I ask is that you teach me the true meaning of peace and prayer. I have listened to you for years, all the ways you honor and express the holy teachings, but it is so hard for me to understand. I ask that, as we travel forward on this path, you take the time to explain your deeper understanding of the 'peace that surpasseth understanding.' If you will do these things I will be so very grateful, and will follow you anywhere. I will also draw a portrait that will rival the works of the masters.&quot; And that is what this book is all about - the journey from Assisi to Syria, the lessons learned along the way and how the prayer &quot;Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace&quot; evolves and develops through their conversation during their journey carrying the message of peace to the infidel. <br />I share with you some snippets which are representative of the book and which made an impression on me. Perhaps they will help you to decide whether this book is for you.<BR>&quot;You see, Brother Leo, before we can accept the true meaning of peace, a transformation is required which shakes the very foundation of our lives. This transformation requires that we lay aside all the concepts and beliefs we presently hold, and accept a new vision offered by the Mind of the Beloved. If we think we already have the answer, if we are hard in our ways and closed in our thoughts, then we cannot hear the Voice for God which whispers its secrets softly into our ear. For most it is a confronting task they will never face. But it is in truth the greatest victory one can achieve as we ascend toward the throne of the Beloved.&quot; <BR>&quot;'Each one of us enters a world fertile with possibilities,' Francis explained. 'When we are born, we are like a rich piece of land which has the potential to produce an enormous harvest, or become a parched desert through misuse. And since we are new to this venture, we search for someone to guide us and help us use our inheritance wisely. It is critical that we chose a guide who is looking out for our best interest, otherwise we will be robbed and have to wait for the next season.'&quot;<BR>&quot;Just as you said, Brother Leo, each one of us receives from our Divine Parent gifts that are bestowed freely and with joy. But if we do not use those gifts wisely, they grow old and dry,as if they were dead. But no matter how much time goes by, no matter how much we neglect the seed of our Divinity, there is a magical secret which has the power to bring it back to life, unleashing its power. When we discover that secret, then apply it, we begin to grow spiritually, and we achieve Divine riches beyond imagination.&quot;<BR>&quot;Prayer is surrender, Brother Leo. It is stepping back into the arms of the Divine and melting into the embrace of the Beloved. There are so many ways to pray, but it is this merging that is important. To ask God to provide something you think you do not have is the lowest level of prayer. To open the soul to the brilliance of eternity, drinking in the light of God as if it were a fountain, this is the highest. It is the wordless prayer that God cannot ignore, because it unites the soul with the Divine current from which all life flows. There are also prayers that use words and concepts, and they are not less than wordless prayer. The power of our prayer is born upon the wings of our intent, and nothing else. It is there we must turn if we are to judge the worth of our song to God. When our intention is love, then prayer is the path that leads us to the throne of our true home.&quot;<br />Yes, I think Mother Teresa was right when she held St. Francis in such high esteem.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R25NCBIW37KLT0	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	5	7	13	N	N	I have chosen Stephen Covey as my advisor	Are you having professional success but at the cost of personal and family life? Do you set goals and then fizzle out? Do your employees need close supervision? Do your children follow your advice? Are you living the happy productive life you seek? Do you think there should be greater meaning to life? Has your marriage gone flat? These are deep, painful problems that don't get solved with quick fix solutions. These are the kind of problems Covey addresses in this book and it is based on the philosophy that if we want to change the situation we have first to change ourselves.<br />The author starts from the research he conducted about success literature over the last 200 years. There was a critical point about 50 years ago when success based on the character ethic changed to success based on the personality ethic. We therefore find that most of the books of the last 50 years are based on superficial, social band aids and aspirin solutions such as public relations techniques and positive mental attitude. This is the root cause of our problems today - no one is getting at the real deep down solutions to our deep down problems. In contrast, the foundation of success in the prior 150 years was based on such characteristics as integrity, humility, fidelity, honesty, temperance, justice, patience, industry, simplicity, modesty and - dare we say it? -the Golden Rule of treating others as we would have others treat us. But it is no good just giving lip service to these qualities; we have to live them and be them. If my character is fundamentally flawed, marked by duplicity and insincerity, I cannot be successful in the long run. What communicates much more than what we say or do is what we are - what radiates out from us. This is something that we can't just produce when facing the press - it shows in our every thought, word and deed. The bad news is that we are the problem and not the other guy. The bad news is that we have to work on ourselves first. But the good news is that Covey helps us along this path. <br />It all comes back to our paradigm, how we perceive, understand and interpret the world, our worldview. The personality ethic is a paradigm. The character ethic is a completely different paradigm. If our paradigm is basically flawed, however hard we work at it, we just get to the wrong place faster. Covey illustrates the fact that we can all see the same world completely differently by the picture of a woman. To some who have been conditioned before hand she is an old hag; to others, conditioned differently, she is a real cutie that we would like to take out. We try our best to be objective but where we stand depends on where we sit. The problem is that 100 people listening to a talk come away with 100 different versions of what the speaker said, but on top of that we interpret what we hear and what we see through the lens we have been conditioned to wear. Sincere, clear-headed people see things differently, each looking through the unique lens of experience. Our paradigms, correct or incorrect, are the sources of our attitudes and behaviors and ultimately of our relationships with others. <br />Thoreau said &quot;For every thousand hacking at the leaves of evil, there is one striking at the roots.&quot; We can only achieve quantum improvements in our lives as we quit hacking at the leaves of our attitudes and behavior and get to work at the root - the paradigm from which our attitudes and behaviors flow. But the catch is that to see the world differently we have to be different. The character ethic is based on the fundamental idea that there are principles that govern human effectiveness - natural laws in the human dimension that are just as real and unchanging as the law of gravity in the physical dimension. This is what Covey is trying to get us to understand.<br />It seems to me that we are born with a ladder in our hands and the choice of many different walls against which to lean it. We make our choice and spend a lifetime struggling step by step up the ladder and finally we heave a sigh of relief and look over the top where we get a clear view of the world. Horror of horrors! We find that we have spent a lifetime with the ladder against the wrong wall! It has all been wasted effort. We have no alternative but to climb back down, put our ladder against the correct wall and try to make it to the top in our few remaining years. The wise man takes more time before choosing his wall. He asks around, talks to many people, reads many books until he finds a wise man that he trusts. He then puts his ladder against the wall that the wise man points out. So who do you trust? Out of all the people who put on seminars and write books, who do you select? The really wise man selects Stephen Covey.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R2BZ1HXO8SIGNA	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	5	29	33	N	N	This is a distinct possibility	Huntington's 1993 article in 'Foreign Affairs' generated so much interest, it was expanded into this book. His answer to the question 'Will conflicts between civilizations dominate world politics?' is affirmative; clashes between civilizations are the greatest threat to world peace; an international order based on civilizations is the best safeguard against war. Since the end of the Cold War people define themselves by blood, belief, faith and family - ancestry, language, religion, history, values, institutions, tribes, ethnic groups and customs - rather than by nation, ideologies and economics. Nation states remain the principal actors but the most important groupings are the major civilizations - Western, Latin America, African, Islamic, Sinic, Hindu, Orthodox, Buddhist and Japanese. Civilizations have no clear-cut boundaries, no precise beginnings and endings; they are mortal but long-lived; they evolve and adapt. The hotspots are on the fault lines between civilizations - Chechnya, the Transcaucasus, Central Asia, Kashmir, the Middle East, Tibet, Sri Lanka, and Sudan. Bosnia was a war of civilizations with Russia providing diplomatic support to the Serbs while Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran and Libya provided funds and arms to the Bosnians. The philosophical assumptions, underlying values, social relations, customs and overall outlooks on life differ significantly among civilizations, reinforced by the revitalization of religion.  The West is the most powerful civilization but its relative power is declining while Confucian and Islamic societies are rising to balance the west. Dangerous clashes are likely to arise from Western arrogance, Islamic intolerance and Sinic assertiveness. Bill Clinton argued that the West does not have a problem with Islam but only with violent extremists, but 1400 years of history demonstrate otherwise. The underlying problem for the West is not Islamic fundamentalism. Islam is a different civilization whose people are convinced of the superiority of their culture and obsessed with the inferiority of their power. Huntington presents the evidence, the argument and provides a strategy for the West to preserve its culture while learning to coexist in a multipolar, multi-civilizational world.<br />The expansion of the Western civilization has ended and the revolt against the west has begun. Western power has declined and the map of 1990 has little resemblance to the map of 1920. Toynbee warned that the parochialism and impertinence of the West is manifested in egocentric illusions; Braudel urged a broader perspective to understand the great cultural conflicts and the multiplicity of its civilizations. However, &quot;the illusions and prejudices of which these scholars warned, live on and in the late 20th century have blossomed forth in the widespread and parochial conceit that the European civilization of the West is now the universal civilization of the world.&quot; As the West confronts problems of slow economic growth, stagnating populations, unemployment, huge government deficits, a declining work ethic, low savings rates, social disintegration, drugs and crime, economic power is shifting to Asia. Military power and political influence will follow. There has been a religious resurgence, often fundamentalist, to meet the psychological, emotional and social needs of people caught in the traumas of modernization. Asia and Islam have been the dynamic civilizations of the last quarter century. China is projected to have the world's largest economy early in the 21st century while Asia is likely to have seven of the ten largest economies by 2020. Islam is not just a religion but a way of life. Islamic assertiveness under the banner 'Islam is the solution' accepts modernization but rejects Western culture. Social mobilization and population growth and particularly the expansion of the fifteen to twenty-four-year-old age cohort, provides recruits for fundamentalism, terrorism, insurgency, and migration. At 18% of world population in 1980, the Muslim population is likely to be 30% in 2025. The Protestant Reformation was one of the outstanding youth movements in history; the youth of Islam have already made their mark in the Islamic resurgence. Larger populations need more resources, push outward, occupy territory and exert pressure on neighbors. <BR>Part V of the book - The Future of Civilizations - is the really interesting part. Huntington points out that civilizations can reform and renew themselves. The central issue for the West is whether it can meet the external challenge while stopping and reversing the process of internal decay. He paints a scenario for a major war of civilizations and points out that the great beneficiaries will be those who abstain and closes by saying: &quot;If this scenario seems a wildly implausible fantasy to the reader, that is all to the good. Let us hope that no other scenarios of global civilizational war have greater plausibility.&quot;<br />If Huntington is right that clashes between civilizations are the greatest threat to world peace in the future; if he, Toynbee and Braudel are right about our arrogance and conceit in believing that Western civilization is the end of history; and if our leaders see no need to plan for the inevitable rise of other civilizations, I fear that the world map is due for another big change.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	RFLIYYJYJQYD3	0854870989	752981034	Wisdom from White Eagle	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Man is in the human body for a two-fold purpose	This book is composed of ten talks given by White Eagle which are Christ-like in their purity; the words spoken could have been spoken by Jesus were He with us today and directs our thoughts towards goodwill and peace. They discourage antagonism and self-aggrandizement and lead us towards humility, loving kindness and cooperation with our fellow creatures. This book has helped me answer such questions as why I have been chosen to walk the earth at this time, how to respond to evil, how I should live my life and why some people seem to have it all good and easy while others struggle from disaster to disaster. Everything in this book is based on Jesus' teachings but sets them in today's context and gives information which is difficult to glean from the Bible or was not appropriate to teach at that time.<br />There are indications that scientists, through their discoveries in the realms of physical science are facing the truth that this is a spiritual as well as a physical universe. When man discovers the wisdom of studying spiritual science he will enter a most wonderful and beauteous world, for in so doing he will see the true way of life and will develop all the God-like qualities inherent in himself.<br />In talk #7 \\"The Divine Law of Love\\" we are told that the average man is not aware that he is learning lessons, gradually evolving his spiritual aspect and that his life on earth is the result of former experiences. Man is his own judge and his own punisher so the suffering we endue is knowingly self-inflicted. Spiritual growth is based on the law of sowing and reaping. To remove our problems and difficulties would be neither kind nor good for us. Even negative forces slowly and painfully test and purify man, eventually bringing him wisdom.<br />Man is in the human body for a two-fold purpose; first to find the glory of God both in himself and in all life, and secondly to discover through incarnation those spiritual truths through which he will achieve infinite happiness. The law is that man shall love God with all his heart and soul and mind and in doing so he naturally loves his neighbor because God is his neighbor. Life is one whole. The tendency in all life is towards unification. You know that you cannot hurt any living thing without hurting yourself and the whole of life. Every kind and tender act comes back to you in blessing.<br />Jesus said \\"Overcome evil with good\\". We must be active in implementing this in our lives. We can strive to be good. We can strive to act on the square. We can abhor untruthfulness, deception, unkindness and killing in any form. We can be an active channel for the divine creative power to reach humanity, to help humanity to awaken to the true way of life.<br />Even if you are the only one who tries to live a life of love every moment of every day, and even if this results in you losing out in earthly terms, you will in due course reap what you have sown and those who have acted otherwise will likewise reap what they have sown.<br />If there is one message which this book highlights it is that our way forward is through love. To love means to give. Whenever we are not thinking, speaking and acting love then we are unhappy and out of harmony. Love is God and God is discovered within the heart. The earthly mind will not readily admit this. The saints of all time have attained a degree of spiritual life wherein they not only comprehend love but their whole being is love expressed in service. The saint, through love, has attained mastery over himself and over the forces of the universe.<br />We all have our contribution to make to God's creation. We are builders and co-workers with the Creator. Whatever our job we should do it to the best of our ability. We do not walk alone for our guardian angel is helping in our every endeavor. Keep your vision on the goal, which is God.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R1R7N93AXUNVBN	155963944X	701814640	The Fatal Harvest Reader: The Tragedy of Industrial Agriculture	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Very convincing	When I received this book recently as a gift I was completely overwhelmed. Overwhelmed by the considerateness of the donor. Overwhelmed by the high quality of the production. Overwhelmed by the large number of &quot;big names&quot; who had contributed. Overwhelmed by the quality and meaningfulness of the photographs. Overwhelmed by the quality of the message that it gets across. Overwhelmed by the ammunition it gives me in my own personal drive for safer, more reliable food. Overwhelmed by how helpful it will be to the waverers who have not yet plucked up the courage to break their links with the chemical establishment.<br />Let me start with the photos which are not only high quality but extremely helpful because side by side we are given a picture of crops grown under two systems which represent the two poles of producing our food. The text on the left page goes like this: &quot;Industrial Eye: see what you are looking at: MELONS: More than half the melons sold in the U.S. are grown in California where industrial melon farms stretch for miles and miles ... Two of the most heavily used toxins in industrial melon production are ... Life is also difficult for the melon pickers ...&quot; On the right page we have: &quot;Agrarian Eye: See what you are looking at: MELONS: These melons are one crop among dozens at the Live Earth's 23-acre farm near Santa Cruz, CA. The melons are part of a diverse system of annual and perennial fruit and vegetable crops that rely on soil health to support the plant's natural ability to deter pests. But it's not done so easily - there are many challenges ... Coastal fog also poses potential fungal problems for melons, which Broz addresses by using fungal-resistant varieties of melons ... The melons are sold at local farmers' markets and through the farm's community supported agriculture (CSA) program, where families receive a weekly box of seasonal fruits and vegetables throughout the growing season.&quot;<br />Next the text. &quot;Part One: Farming as if Nature Mattered: Breaking the Industrial Paradigm&quot; is composed of seven articles such as &quot;Global Monoculture: The Worldwide Destruction of Diversity&quot;. Then &quot;Part Two: Corporate Lies: Busting the Myths of Industrial Agriculture&quot; is composed of articles each addressing one of the seven myths such as &quot;Myth Two: Industrial Food is Safe, Healthy and Nutritious&quot;. The book continues through to &quot;Part Seven: Organic and Beyond: Revisioning Agriculture for the 21st Century&quot; with nine more articles such as &quot;The Ethics of Eating: Why Environmentalism Starts at the Breakfast Table.&quot;<br />In these 370 pages we have all the information we need to convince those sitting on the fence that we must reduce our dependence on industrial agriculture. When confronted with this volume it is difficult to imagine how all those involved in the industrial agricultural chain will be able to put up an effective argument. On the contrary, it should be convincing to the thinking service organization that this is where their future profits lie and they should climb on the band wagon helping rather than hindering. For the farmer who is wavering - and probably for good reasons as his livelihood is affected - he will find in this volume the encouragement he needs; others have forged the trail and he can follow in the knowledge that the forerunners have solved the major problems.<br />Bravo to all those concerned with the preparation of this volume. You have done mankind a great service. It is a long tunnel down which we are travelling, but I for one can now see the light in the distance. Because of your initiative the rest of us will travel our own path with more confidence and with greater speed.  At last we can hope for some sanity in our food production. If we can get this volume into the hands of enough people - people who care - then we really can change the world. If Silent Spring was the book that woke the world to the evilsof indiscriminate chemical use, then this volume will go down as the one that banged home the last nail in the coffin of industrial agriculture.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R3T1GSCYKC547X	0465019102	470996176	Just War Against Terror: Ethics And The Burden Of American Power In A Violent World	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Justice is the only valid weapon	In 1998 Osama bin Laden declared war against America, denouncing US occupation of the lands of Islam in the Arabian Peninsular and the Muslim obligation to kill and plunder pagans. In the west we find it difficult to accept such language at face value but bin Laden and his followers mean it when they call westerners 'infidels'. Bin Laden and his followers also mean it when they talk of an obligation to kill as a recruitment video shown in a Finsbury, North London mosque shows disarmed enemies being decapitated with the commentary \\"You have to kill in the name of Allah until you are killed. Then you will win your place in paradise. The whole Islamic world should rise up to fight all the sick unbelievers. The flag of Jihad will be forever held high. Our enemies are fighting in the name of Satan. You are fighting in the name of God.\\" Radical Islamists want to impose their official religion, through terror if necessary. The message that Jean Bethke Elshtain wants us to understand is that in bin Laden and his followers we face a new kind of enemy; that those who live in freedom must sometimes fight for the right to live in freedom; that with America's great power comes even greater responsibility; that we must fight - not to conquer - but to defend who and what we are. <br />The Pope's response to September 11 may be summed up in these words: \\"When terrorist organizations use their own followers as weapons to be launched against defenseless and unsuspecting people, they show clearly the death wish that feeds them. Terrorism springs from hatred, and it generates isolation, mistrust and closure ... Terrorism is built on contempt for human life. For this reason, not only does it commit intolerable crimes, but because it resorts to terror as a political and military means it is itself a true crime against humanity.\\"<br />Martyrs die for a religious belief or cause and to claim that a martyr can be a suicide bomber or mass murderer is a corruption of the word. Terrorists arethose who kill people they consider their enemy; terrorists sow terror; terror subjects its would be victims to paralyzing fear; terrorists are not interested in the subtleties of diplomacy or in compromise solutions. Terrorism is extremist and Islamist fundamentalism is extreme. The Western politics of negotiation and compromise do not work with terrorism. President Bush distinguished carefully between Islam as a great religion and terrorists who are in effect trying to highjack Islam itself. Islam is as fractured as Christianity and there seems to be no spokesman who speaks in the name of Islam. Who governs in the name of Islam? We hear continually the voice of the Islam extremists but seldom hear the voice of those who truly represent Islam.<br />How do you respond to those who have declared you a mortal enemy because you hold radically different views on constitutional rights, moral equality, separation of church and state, and equality of sexes? There is a great deal at stake in the current struggle, and there are values worth defending. But how we choose to defend these values is all-important, for in fighting terror that knows no limits, there are limits we ourselves must observe. That is what this book is all about - seeking the correct response to our terrorist enemy. The overwhelming reaction to September 11 was to speak of justice and that is what the author proposes - justice as represented by a blindfolded figure holding balanced scales. <br />Elshtain draws on Augustine to define the principles, but refers to Paul Tillich and Reinhold Niebuhr, who confronted political evil in the World War II era, to define the practice of confronting the enemy. Tillich broadcast 112 addresses into occupied Europe to help German Christians understand what the Third Reich was doing, saying that Germans had to stand against the terror and confront the Jewish question; he was clear that terror had to be fought but without hatred. Niebuhr maintained that the world must beengaged; Christians must understand that their own freedom is entangled with political realities. One cannot withdraw from responsibility by refusing to confront the inevitable moral ambiguities of politics. In his essays  \\"Love your Enemies\\" and \\"To Prevent the Triumph of an Intolerable Tyranny\\" Niebuhr makes the case for struggling against a determined foe intent on our harm and destruction without hating that foe. <br />If you would like to learn what bin Laden and his followers are trying to do to the West and if you suspect that justice is the only valid weapon we can use to combat terrorism this is an excellent book to study.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R39Z0ZCIOWIPY6	0853984476	411605736	RE-Thinking, RE-Visioning, RE-Placing (George Ronald Bahai studies series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The world is much in need of re-visioning	The author sets out to re-think ideas which have persisted for millennia in Western philosophy and metaphysics in the hope that we will be stimulated to connect the threads of thought representing the love of wisdom and the quest for a true philosophy. The first chapter &quot;Heart Thoughts&quot; points out that the heart is more than an organ for circulating life fluids because it aches, sorrows, breaks, longs, imagines, is uplifted, loves, feels, sees - in fact it is the center of our emotions and the core of our being. The author goes on to say; &quot;In this essay we shall explore the multifaceted heart, drawing from Christian, Islamic, Bahai and other religious scriptures and psychological perspectives, weaving ideas, teachings and metaphors into a rich tapestry rich with imagery.&quot;  In the Old Testament Ezekiel tells us &quot;A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you: and I will take a stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh.&quot; In religious traditions the heart is the seat of the soul, the source of true understanding. The world is very much in need of re-visioning and Cope has provided much food for thought.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	RZGNS91TVBOC0	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	246	257	N	N	Much food for thought	Several years ago a friend had an operation for a cancerous growth behind his eye yet today is well and tells of the importance of the right mental attitude when facing adversity. Another friend faces a similar experience but appears to be in the process of succumbing in ignorance of the importance of mental attitude. Seeking guidance as to what I might do to help, I turned to this book.<br />After recounting the horrors of everyday life in a work camp - the initial selection process in which 90% were sent to the gas chambers while 10% were kept to extract the last ounce of work as slaves for construction firms; the Capos selected from the most brutal who had lost all scruples in order to save their life; how everything was subservient to keeping oneself and one's closest friends alive - Viktor Frankl tells of the psychological problems they met.<br />The most important seems to be the hope of release as shown by the very high death rate in his camp in the week between Christmas 1944 and new year 1945 which had no explanation in food, treatment, weather, disease or working conditions; it was that the majority had lived in the nave hope that they would be home again by Christmas. In the absence of encouraging news, the prisoners lost courage; disappointment overcame them and their powers of resistance dropped. Frankl noticed that it was the men who comforted others, who gave away their last piece of bread who survived longest and who offered proof that everything can be taken but one thing - to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances. <br />In the camp every decision determined whether or not you would submit to loss of inner freedom. The sort of person the prisoner became was the result of an inner decision and not of camp influences alone. It is this spiritual freedom which cannot be taken away which makes life meaningful and purposeful. Only those who allowed their inner hold on their moral and spiritual selves to subside eventually fell victim to the camp's degenerating influences. Most inmates believed that the real opportunities of life had passed. In reality, however, one could make a victory of those experiences, turning them into an inner triumph.<br />Frankl saw himself giving a lecture on the psychology of the concentration camp, living Spinoza's observation that \\"Emotion, which is suffering, ceases to be suffering as soon as we form a clear and precise picture of it.\\" Armed with the insight that any attempt to restore man's inner strength had first to succeed in showing him some future goal he tried to help would-be suicides to realize that life was still expecting something from them - a loving son awaiting his return, an unfinished work to complete. When the impossibility of replacing you is realized it is impossible to throw your life away. When you know the why of your existence you will be able to bear almost any how.<br />Frankl had to learn and then teach that it really did not matter what we expect from life but rather what life expects from us. The answer lies in right action and in right conduct; life ultimately means taking responsibility to find the right answer to its problems and to fulfill tasks that it constantly sets for each individual. These tasks, and therefore the meaning of life, differ from man to man and from moment to moment, making it impossible to define in general terms or in sweeping statements. No man and no destiny can be compared to any other man or destiny. It may require a man to shape his own fate, contemplate or accept his fate. There is only one right answer to the situation at hand. <br />When a man finds that it is his destiny to suffer, he will have to accept his suffering as his single, unique task. His unique opportunity lies in the way he bears his burden. Once the meaning of suffering has been revealed, suffering has hidden opportunities for achievement. When he had the opportunity to address a group of prisoners his purpose was to help each man to find afull meaning to their life in that practically hopeless situation by pointing out the joys each had experienced in the past and that no one had suffered irreplaceable losses. Whoever was still alive had reason for hope; health, family, happiness, professional abilities, fortune, position in society, could all be restored. Life never ceases to have meaning and this infinite meaning includes suffering and dying, privation and death. God or someone alive or dead would hope to find them suffering proudly.<br />After the war, Frankl introduced Logotherapy, which focuses on the meanings of life to be fulfilled by the patient in the future. The patient is confronted with the meaning of his life. The meaning of human existence as well as man's search for such a meaning is unique and specific and can be fulfilled by him alone. He is able to live and even to die for the sake of his ideals and values. The more that you forget yourself by giving to a cause or serving in love, the more you actualize yourself. We can discover meaning in three ways - creating a work or doing a deed; by experiencing something or encountering someone; and by the attitude we take to unavoidable suffering.<br />When we are no longer able to change a situation such as inoperable cancer we have to change our attitude. He asks his patients to project themselves forward to their deathbed and look back on the meaningful things in their lives. Man does not simply exist but always decides what his existence will be; he has control over what he will become in the next moment. <br />This book has certainly provided much food for thought!	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R3N8I305ODJ4V7	0803261705	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux, Twenty-First Century Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	We should pay attention to Black Elk's vision and wisdom	My gut feeling is that at the height of our folly we have been killing the goose that lays the golden egg - in this case killing off those with the vision and wisdom to get us out of our present predicament. Solomon, when given the opportunity to choose anything he wanted, asked for wisdom - wisdom alone. But with that gift he became the wealthiest man of his era and everything else was given to him. We also lack vision and Proverbs tells us that a nation without vision shall perish. Today our shortcoming is that we lack vision and wisdom and what is more we are so ignorant that we don't even suspect that we lack vision and wisdom. And in that ignorance and the greed, arrogance and contempt that it generates we have almost destroyed the last remaining semblance of a people who had the vision and wisdom that the wise would have traveled the earth to receive. Fortunately, we have this book and through these most wonderful writings the wise of today can tap into the vision and wisdom.<br />Humans have two natures - the materialistic and the spiritual. In the west today our materialistic side has grown big and bloated while our spiritual side has shrunk to an almost imperceptible size through non-use. Black Elk was a person where the materialistic and the spiritual were in balance. We, too, can regain that balance if we are willing to listen to Black Elk. As the back cover tells us this book was named one of the ten best spiritual books of the 20th century, I am not alone in thinking that this is a good book to read, study, absorb and implement - but only if we are wise enough to understand that, of course. <br />Black Elk had visions of the unity of humanity and the author tells us of his first visit in August 1930: &quot;It was not of worldly matters that he spoke most, but of things he deemed holy and of 'the darkness of men's eyes'&quot; and that &quot;from early youth he had lived in and for a world of higher values than those of food and shelter, and his years hadbeen one long, passionate devotion to those values as he conceived them&quot; and that Black Elk had said &quot;As I sit here, I can feel in this man beside me a strong desire to know the things of the Other World. He has been sent to learn what I know, and I will teach him.&quot; At this point I could not help but think that the author and Black Elk were both exceptional people. How is it that a near-blind man could feel the author's goodness radiating out?<br />Having arrived at noon and with the sun now setting, Black Elk said: &quot;There is so much to teach you. What I know was given to me for men and it is true and beautiful. Soon I shall be under the grass and it will be lost. You were sent to save it, and you must come back so that I can teach you.&quot; Neilhard returned the following spring and listened to the old man talk because he wanted this great vision to be saved for you and me. The author then faced the difficult task - and the sacred obligation - to re-create for us in mood and manner the old man's narrative.<br />Stephen Covey tells us to imagine that I have just died and people are gathered together to talk about me, reflect on my life and provide ideas of what might be written on my tombstone. What, in a few words, would do I want a visitor 100 years from now, to know about me? I think that I would be content if my gravestone said: &quot;Here lies a man who lived the vision and wisdom of Black Elk in his every thought, word and deed.&quot;	2004-01-16
US	51116445	RASSHTQFNWF0K	1870989090	252405952	Unless and Until: A Baha'I Focus on the Environment	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A much need approach to the environment	As Deputy Director of the Oceans and Coastal Areas Programme Activity Center of the United Nations Environment Program, Arthur Dahl had first hand experience of the environmental problems we face which may be summed up in these words: &quot;Whether we like it or not we are collectively guilty of the crime of 'ecocide' - the murder of the environment. Whereas murder is usually deliberate and often premeditated, today our environment is being killed just as much by our thoughtlessness and outmoded ideas or unwillingness to take action, as it is by predatory commercial and political interests. Governments are only now waking up to the scale of our common plight, while others warn that the clock has already begun to strike midnight.&quot; There are two components of the solution: &quot;The first is that we must all take responsibility for our own actions. This demands a new maturity in our values, attitudes and behavior in our relationships with each other, and especially with other species with whom we share our planet. The second factor is the recognition that our world functions as one single, amazingly complex yet interdependent system.&quot;<br />The environmental crisis first came to the world's attention with the great London Fog of 1952 that killed thousands of people. At that time environmental problems were still manageable and within a relatively short time the city had clean air and fish had returned to the river Thames. Since then, however, we have increased both the rate and scale of our impact on the environment. Humankind is like a man jumping from the 100th story enjoying the view and breeze but giving no thought for the future or the painful landing that awaits. It is hard to see what can stop the downward spiral in which we find ourselves but there are forces of transition breaking down the old structures of a fragmented world of sovereign nations to be replaced by new types of organization adapted to a united world. The real solution to our environmental problems does not lie in technological fixes but in the restructuring of world society and of the values by which people live. Unity of the human race must be the guiding principle and this in turn is based on the recognition of the value of unity in diversity to take advantage of the fantastic richness of human experience. Humankind's response to the environment is expressed in many different qualities, social structures, languages, sciences, technologies, arts and culture; these are our heritage of thousands of years of evolution. Too often the differences have been the cause of prejudice, fear, misunderstanding, war and genocide but they must be appreciated, preserved and enriched as contributions to a world civilization.<br />All through history, religion has been one of the most powerful forces in the advancement of human civilization by providing the moral values which support the structures of a social system. Religion is the greatest of means for establishing a new ecological ethic. The dichotomy between spirituality  and materialism is a key to understanding the plight of mankind today. Major threats to our environment are based on a sickness of the human spirit, a sickness marked by an overemphasis on material things and the self-centredness that inhibits our ability to work together as a global community. We need to revitalize the human spirit and break down the barriers that limit fruitful and harmonious cooperation between men and women whatever their national, racial or religious background; the earth is one country and that all mankind are its citizens. A new political order must be based on economic justice, equality between the races, equal rights for women and men, and universal education. Solutions will take many years but the long-term future is bright, assuming a general effort to build a new world civilization. The foundation of that civilization will be the agricultural and biological resources of the planet based on stable systems producing the food, energy, raw materials and energy required by society. Wastes will be absorbed and recycled in an efficient system much like that of the coral reef. If those who hold religious beliefs want to contribute to contemporary society, they must come to a new understanding with modern science to provide a balance between faith and reason and the harmonization of spiritual and material needs. Science and technology offer the means to eliminate poverty but the barriers to the solution of the extremes of wealth and poverty are social and political. While lip service may be paid to the intellectual and spiritual qualities that distinguish humankind, most people still follow the value system promoted by the mass media, advertising, conspicuous consumption and planned obsolescence. This preoccupation with material advancement has led to excesses which are at the root of many of our environmental problems. <br />Any fundamental change must start with the individual as we each share some responsibility for the state of our community and of the world and each of us is responsible for the example we set in our own lives. For those seeking guidance, there is no better place to start than studying this book.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R3BXF0PYLROIW9	0854871098	168353302	Walking With the Angels: A Path of Service	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Angels do exist	Do angels exist? This book tells us in no uncertain terms that they do. \\"Walking with the Angels\\" is a book of White Eagle's teaching about angels, their work and how to work with them. This book helps us to develop qualities to which angles are most attuned and to live our lives in appreciation of a greater beauty, wisdom and love. <br />Do angels play an important role for humanity? Yes, throughout history angels have been very influential in our development and progress. Angels work unceasingly to uplift humanity, to prepare humanity for the coming of the Lord of this earth. They help us to seek balance and create harmonious conditions, reassuring us that life has far greater meaning and purpose than we know and opening our mind to the invisible worlds which surround the earth. When angels are present in our life they can bring us inspiration and guidance. <br />Are angles still around today? Yes, they are as active today as ever. Do you and I have guardian angels? Most certainly yes. Are angels active in our life? Perhaps yes. Perhaps no. It depends upon a number of things. Angels are there by our side waiting to help us but we have to ask; they will not just come and interfere. Then after we have asked our guardian angles to come into our life we need to learn how to communicate with them. As with all things there is a learning curve. There may be some people in our life who have made the effort and they are reaping the benefits. Others may have shown no interest in developing the necessary communication skills and may well be missing out on life-enriching experiences.<br />How would our life change if we made the effort to communicate with our angels? If we have ever wondered why we were born into this world and what our work should really be, our angels have the answer and will tell us provided we have progressed enough spiritually. If we have wondered about the deeper meaning of life - beyond making money, buying a house and all those material things - thenour angels are there waiting to help us find the answers. However, we have to understand that our angles would do us a disservice if they simply gave us the answers on a platter. Life does not work like that as our growth comes from our working on this part of our life just as we work to earn money.<br />What if we don't make the effort to communicate with our angels? There is no judgement in this. Everyone has completely free choice and we are not good or bad if we do or we don't. We are simply at a certain stage of our personal development. But eventually we will want to reach home even though it may take many lives. It is up to us whether we take our time or whether we move along more rapidly. But home is such a lovely place that our angels are telling us that it is worth making the effort sooner rather than later. This book tells us all we need to know to decide whether or not we should embark on this path and how to make progress by calling on the guidance of our angels.<br />White eagle explains that angels are intimately connected to the world of nature and the animal kingdom in ways which we cannot conceive with our limited earthly mind and teaches us to develop contact with nature if we wish to work with angelic beings, as did ancient peoples. All of this is not to say that the materialist does not have his or place in the grand scheme of evolution. Such people bring to humanity a driving force which eventually opens up the higher mind and the urge of love is born. There is an urge to make contact with something not previously understood, but which a person feels, through a slow awakening of intuition. The mind tells them when they view a glorious sunset or the brilliance of a starlit night or when they listen to a beautiful piece of music that there must be a power behind, an intellect which has caused all which brings harmony to the soul. <br />While we must not decry the intellect because it is through the intellect that we will come to comprehend thesewonderful forms and states of life, we must nevertheless become simple as children. It is only then that we will see the inner life of rocks, plants, air, water, the sea, and fire. Of all the animal kingdom, it is the birds that are closest to the angels. It will be the growing understanding and the inner knowledge of our true relationship with nature and the angels that will bring the greatest scientific discoveries and inventions. As you grow in awareness the flowers talk to you. White eagle urges us to do all we can to alleviate suffering of animals for until humanity refrains from cruelty to the animal kingdom and to the earth and to his fellow man, human beings will suffer. Love of animals can help us in our awareness of the angels. Love and compassion for animals and birds is itself a route to contact with the angels, as it so obviously was for Brother Francis.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	RXBOH96D64A3S	0805209700	745465161	The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fed up with city life? read this!	This book is about a couple who develop a self-sufficient life style. Originally I bought the book as a blue print for retirement so that I could pluck from it those things I wanted for my family - a very good guide for such a purpose. However, the Nearings had a very strong set of principles, which sets them aside from most people who want to get away from city life. An initial period of work in his grandfather's mine alongside immigrant workers turned Scott into an outspoken critic of the social system resulting in his being fired from his university post and made unemployable. Royalties on his textbooks, widely used in the educational system, ceased. Scott's wife, Helen, was also a very high-principled person. Perhaps this was the ultimate secret of their long-term success - they were completely uncompromising on whatever principles they adopted. <br />Helen Nearing tells us that they left the city with three objectives:<BR>- economic: independence from the commodity and labor markets<BR>- hygienic: to maintain and improve health<BR>- social and ethical: to liberate and dissociate from the cruder forms of exploitation - plunder of the planet, slavery of man and beast, slaughter in war and animals for food. They were against the accumulation of profit and unearned income by non-producers. <br />She goes on to tell us that after 20 years:<BR>- a piece of eroded, depleted mountain land had been restored to fertility<BR>- a successful economy without animals, animal products, chemical fertilizers had been created <BR>- a subsistence household had been established , paying its way and yielding a modest surplus<BR>- a small scale business had been established from which wagery had been virtually eliminated<BR>- health was at a high level<BR>- the complexities of city life had been replaced by a simple life pattern<BR>- they enjoyed six months labor and six months leisure used for research, travel, writing, speaking, teaching<BR>- they always had an open house for hundreds of people annually<br />We are told that no family group of vigor, energy, purpose, imagination and determination need continue to wear the yoke of a competitive, acquisitive, and predatory culture. A family can live with nature, make a living, preserve and enhance efficiency, enjoy leisure, and do their part to make the world a better place. They maintain that a couple of any age 20-50 with minimum health, intelligence and capital can adapt to country living, learn its crafts, overcome its difficulties and build a rich pattern of life of simple values, being productive of personal and social good. <br />If you have wondered whether city life is for you, there is no better book to read than &quot;The Good Life&quot;.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R37VCKNGWENHPR	0684847337	143948188	The New Natural House Book: Creating a Healthy, Harmonious, and Ecologically Sound Home	Books	5	34	37	N	N	For a healthy house read this book	Our home, especially if we have the opportunity to build from scratch, should reflect a great deal about our worldview. The visitor should be able to tell from what he sees and from a few simple questions how the owner feels about some of the most pressing questions of our time, including the environment. Do we wish to tread lightly on the earth, taking for ourselves a fair portion of the world's resources or are we more interested in looking after ourselves whatever the price paid by others? These are not easy questions to deal with in practical terms as we are continually faced with trading off one priority against another and sometimes the factors we have to consider become overwhelming.<br />The contributors to this book are those who want to help us to tread lightly on this earth and find our way through the complex maze, realizing that the hundreds of small, and perhaps seemingly unimportant, decisions do make a difference and we must remember that we have an influence on others through the home that we create. <br />The reason that I read this book was that I want a well body in a well home in a well earth and I needed practical, down-to-earth advice on how to get there while building our house. I am aware that the house of an unwitting builder can actually damage health and do damage to the earth and that it is not easy today to find the path to ensure that our house would be a healing place for body, mind, spirit and the planet. I want to take advantage of all the wonders of science, our latest technologies and new materials but want to reject those which could be harmful. I don't want to turn the clock back and live according to the best of a bygone age but want to do the best possible job in today's world. I am also aware that our world will be different at some point in the future - whether it be very soon or some years away. We cannot take cheap fuel and clean water for granted, and there will be increasing pressure to adopt a sustainable life style aspoorer nations seek a similar standard of living for their people as I seek for my family. So was this book helpful to me?  The answer is yes.<br />The book has been written by people who have an interest in and experience in ecological architecture and the Gaia movement (inspired by the view of the earth as a living planet) and is divided into three parts. The first provides the big picture telling us how the home interacts with the environment and the user. The second part shows how to build, service and furnish a home for health and ecology while the third applies the principles to the design of spaces in the home.<br />I had not studied the Gaia Home Charter, which is the heart and soul of the philosophical approach adopted by the authors, but it seems to me to be sensible and to reflect the values I would want to be known for. The Charter does not ask me to give up those things that I truly value - in fact it urges us to do only what we are ready for and can carry through - but helps to ensure that all people on the earth, if they adopt the Charter, have a better chance to enjoy those same pleasures and benefits.<br />The second part goes into detail about the various systems such as solar windows, solar walls, sunspaces, natural cooling, energy conservation, prudent water use, indoor air pollution and the criteria for selecting healthy materials.  <br />The third part gives advice, examples, pictures and photographs of how to integrate the philosophy of Part I with the details of Part II to produce beautiful, harmonious, peaceful, and practical living spaces.<br />Having read this book, I feel that my wife and I are better equipped to build a house which is a practical place to raise three active children but which reflects the values which we want to espouse in our lives. I have a better understanding of the wisdom and knowledge of other cultures, ancient and modern, and how to blend these into our house in a manner which balances the demands of ecology, health, and spirit, integrated into the natural systems which surround us. I have found that practical restrictions do not allow me to be as environmental as I would have liked to have been, but I have taken a step in the right direction by reading and acting upon the wisdom contained in this book. <br />If we wish to do something positive for the environment, there is no better place to start than in our homes and in our personal lives. People in West Germany and the Scandinavian countries have already adopted the lifestyle proposed in this book so there is nothing impossible about making a positive change to demonstrate respect for the environment and care for our personal health. Whether or not you are building, renovating, advising  or just interested, this is a good book to guide us through the maze.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R37LHXKTCUR2JB	0833503499	119696620	The Autobiography and Other Writings	Books	5	16	17	N	N	You will be richer from reading this book	Benjamin Franklin's autobiography is the story of one man's efforts to integrate certain principles and habits - integrity, humility, fidelity, temperance, courage, justice, patience, industry, simplicity, modesty - into his life and to embed them deep within his nature. Franklin was a scientist, philosopher, statesman, inventor, educator, diplomat, politician, humorist and man of letters who led a very full life. He was also a moralist and humanitarian who was happy to be considered unconventional by doing things the way he thought they should be done. His was a life well lived and a model from which we can learn much. In the introduction we are told: \\"Himself a master of the motives of human conduct, Franklin did not set out to reveal himself in his autobiography. Rather, he intended to tell us (insofar as we, the nation, are the 'posterity' to whom he addressed himself) how life was to be lived, good done, and happiness achieved - how the ball was to be danced.\\"<br />Franklin did not have an easy life as the tenth son of a candle maker whose education ended at the age of ten. But by hard work and careful planning he was able to retire from business at the age of forty-two and devote his time to science and politics. He was sent to England in 1764 to petition the King to end the proprietary government of the colony. Soon after the Revolution began he was sent to France to negotiate an alliance with Louis XVI. He was a member of the committee that drafted the Declaration of Independence. It is difficult to image anyone not coming away richer from reading this book.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R1QB5KSGETNV5P	0425098478	986630902	The One Minute Manager	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Even helpful in the home	Is there a short, easy-to-read management book that can be really useful to the businessman but also helpful for the housewife and in the conduct of family affairs? Is it possible to squeeze into 100 pages enough valuable information so that it serves a multiple audience and could even be a guide for raising children? This book is based on techniques occupying one minute. Concentrating on three core issues, the author first concentrates on goals. In the business world goals would probably be getting more bang for the buck or more widgets per shift or greater efficiency; in the home goal setting can start with children making the bed, keeping the bedroom tidy or clearing up afterwards. Goal setting is only successful if both parties buy into it - boss and employee or parent and child. Agreeing on objectives, expressing them concisely as bullet points, and setting a time frame may take more than a minute but they can be reviewed rapidly and without dispute. The other two core issues - praise or reprimand - follow naturally and each party knows in advance what it will be. There are no surprises. <br />You can easily read this book and map out your strategy in an evening. It is difficult to imagine that anyone could not find this book helpful in some part of their life.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	R2OS75LNF0Q66M	1561706086	776971659	The Indigo Children: The New Kids Have Arrived	Books	5	29	39	N	N	This book could be helpful if you have a problem child	I have certain memories of how I acted as a child and have been surprised that children today seem to be more mature. It was therefore with some fascination that I found that the authors of \\"The Indigo Children\\" had noted the same thing, but not being experts in this field they looked to others better qualified to comment. Lee Carol and Jan Tober have collected articles from many people who work with children who tell us that today's children have a feeling of royalty, believe they deserve to be here, know who they are, challenge authority, refuse to do certain things, are frustrated with ritual-oriented systems, are system busters, act anti-socially, do not respond to guilt discipline, and tell us what they need. Because we cannot handle these children, our society smothers them, labels them as \\"learning disabled\\" and drugs them with Ritalin and Cylert. These children believe they came to serve the planet as emissaries from heaven, bearers of wisdom to give us a new understanding of humanity and consider themselves gifts to their parents. By honoring the Indigo Child as a gift instead of a problem we will open the door to understanding their wisdom. We should listen to their message as many Indigos are inherently gifted philosophers, scientists, inventors and artists.  Many parents are unaware that their child could be potentially gifted and do not recognize or respect their children although performance scores may be exceptionally high.<BR> <BR>But why the color indigo? Nancy Ann Tappe can look at people and see their life color from which she can determine their mission on earth. She can \\"read\\" personality. About 90% of children are now born radiating an indigo color. There are four types of indigo - the humanist who will become a doctor, teacher, lawyer or politician; the artist who is creative and into the arts; the conceptualist who will work as a designer, engineer or architect; and the inter-dimensional who seems to know everything and will bring us new philosophies and religions.  <br />Punishment will not work while discipline guides by providing logical and realistic consequences. As these children read intent more than words we should treat them with the same respect we would other adults. We should say what we mean, mean what we say and do what we said we would do. Integrity should be our guide.  If we want these kids to make wise choices, we must give them the opportunity to make choices, including some unwise ones. Listen, talk, share. Many Indigos have problems with school. It is interesting to note that Albert Einstein found his schooling so distasteful that he could not consider scientific problems for a year. There is a 12-year old who would not go to school because he saw no value in the hours spent there but who helped bring about change in the school to better serve the needs of himself and others. Education must change to accommodate the Indigo Child. Robert Ocker helps children to focus on problem solving, conflict resolution, taking responsibility and character education. Education requires a new vision for the children of the 21st century. As educators we must revisit our assumptions about the meaning, purpose and function of education. We must teach children how to think, not what to think and develop children's abilities and skills rather than memories. These children are computerized and technological which means that they will introduce technology that we cannot even dream of. Real education takes care of the body, soul and spirit. Are there any school systems that really work with Indigo children? There are two established systems - the Waldorf System based on the teachings of Rudolf Steiner and Montessori schools. Waldorf schools are reported to be the fastest growing nonsectarian educational system in the world. <br />If you think you have or know of an Indigo Child, this book could be invaluable. If you are an educator and have trouble with some children who seem to be exceptionally bright, this volume could shed new light on the situation. It is very helpful to learn what these people who have long experience working with children have to say.	2004-01-16
US	51116445	RIDC5HPFNVFT4	1886718008	260939308	Towards a New World View: Conversations at the Leading Edge	Books	5	19	19	N	N	These people ar showing us the future	Before reading this book I had not realized how important it is to have a correct worldview because this dictates our attitude towards each other, all living things and the world we live in. If, collectively, we have the wrong worldview, we create many problems for ourselves. Dare I say it? - our current worldview may be the underlying cause of the events of September 11, 2001.<br />This book, published in 1996, is a series of interviews with respected leaders who have concluded that the conventional worldview may be wrong. In many cases there is very strong evidence pointing us in a new direction but we have been slow to accept these findings and make the necessary changes. This should not surprise us because we are no different from the doctors of 100 years ago who were presented with very convincing evidence that a doctor washing hands before moving to the next patient reduced mortality of both mother and child in maternity wards. Doctors fought the evidence tooth and nail and sought to discredit both the evidence and the proponent. Likewise, you and I may be clinging to many outdated world views and this may be creating unnecessary problems for ourselves and for the world we live in.<br />This is an important book for anyone who is concerned about where our present worldview is taking us because Russell E. DiCarlo has conducted 27 interviews with people working in such fields as history, science, religion, philosophy, psychology, medicine, human potential, business, education and economics. These highly intelligent people have usually risen to the top by following the conventional worldview. But now they are telling us &quot;Hey, I had it all wrong!&quot; and usually present enough evidence to show that we would be wise to change. In each field we are being told the equivalent of washing hands reduces mortality. These are our new leaders who are pointing the way to a better understanding of the world we live in and the errors of our conventional worldview. If you have even the slightest nagging discomfort that we have been following an erroneous path, you will find this book a breath of fresh air and you will draw comfort that you are not alone. <br />After a journey that has taken the author through four hundred books, a thousand articles and scores of workshops, the author has distilled the message from those gifted with extraordinary and penetrating insight to provide us with an emerging new world view. Many of the leading edge writers in this volume would agree that the traditional, dominant and prevailing worldview is hopelessly obsolete and is the root cause of the prevailing world crisis. <br />As Marilyn Ferguson, author of the Aquarian Conspiracy, which was one of the most influential books of the 1980s, notes &quot; .... What we in western society think of as being &quot;real&quot; is a very limited view of the world. From time to time, we all have experiences in everyday life that hint all is not what it seems.&quot; The chaos we are experiencing is a symptom that the forms we have been operating under have outlived their usefulness. We must realize that our old solutions to problems are not going to get us out of the mess we are in. We have to be more visionary, creative, imaginative and compassionate if we are going to survive.<br />Everyone has a worldview, which gives rise to our individual and collective values and shapes what we consider to be important. But worldviews are far from static; they change with the age. The present worldview has helped us to accomplish much, but it has also caused great problems which we cannot fix using the old engineering model. These cutting edge ideas are even moving into management with the concept that there is a higher purpose to business than survival, profit, growth and gross national product but which embraces quality of life, quality of environment and the welfare of future generations.<br />As a concerned citizen who wants a better world for my children and grand children, there was no better place for me to start than reading this book and then taking the time to ask myself whether I am clinging to outdated worldviews. In some cases I have found the evidence convincing and I am changing. In others I am not yet ready to make the radical change implied, but the seed of uncertainty has been planted.	2003-11-21
US	51116445	R3100LRMNGDUT4	1899171487	640814365	Praying Peace: In Conversation with Gregg Braden and Doreen Virtue	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Prayer is a power tool to bring about peace	What we focus our minds on grows. Can one person, properly motivated, change the world? Can one person inspire us and give the rest of us hope? Could that person be you? In the opinion of the author, the answer to those questions is a resounding &quot;Yes&quot; - you have always had the power. What if you have more power within you than you can even imagine? What if you are not the weak unimportant, insignificant person you thought you were? Might prayer be more than we think? Could it be that peace is more than just an idea but a powerful reality? What if prayer is &quot;becoming aware of the awareness of God?&quot; What if becoming aware of the awareness of God is the act of re-establishing the flow of information between our source and us? What if peace is not the opposite of war, but an experience that transcends all definitions, linking us to our eternal nature? What if the word &quot;peace&quot; really is defined as by St. Paul &quot;Peace that surpasseth all understanding?&quot; Is it possible for us to experience something so pure, so whole, that it cannot be compared to anything at all? Is it possible to enter into an experience that has no opposite? Could it be that real peace is an experience beyond the comprehension of the rational mind and of which the mystics say, &quot;Of this we cannot speak&quot;? What if there is more to prayer than the formulae that we were taught to recite kneeling beside our bed? What if there is a system that has the power to change everything and can provide access to unlimited peace, happiness and joy? <br />When we enter into a state of communication with the Divine, or prayer, then we are aware of God and we experience peace and this is what this book is all about. James Twyman talks with Gregg Braden, earth scientist, computer systems designer and guide to sacred sites throughout the world and with Doreen Virtue, spiritual psychologist and author of twenty-two books about mind-body-spirit. They agree that the seven pathways to peace are:<BR>- you are always praying; thought itself is prayer<BR>- whatever you focus your mind on increases<BR>- to change the world, change your thoughts about the world<BR>- if you want to experience peace - become peace<BR>- peace is always present, though it is sometimes hidden<BR>- love is the only force in the universe<BR>- the world is already healed<br />Being a person whose concept of prayer and peace is that of a person who is just putting his first step on the ladder, I found it very helpful to see these three higher up the ladder reaching down to pull me up. Their goal is to help me make a real difference on the planet by creating a world based on the laws of love. For me it was a mind-stretching experience as I belong to &quot;the old school&quot; which believes that power is military strength, superior technology or a cleverer mind in the game of bluff and counter bluff. But somewhere in our ancient past it was not always like that. People realized that real power is within you and it was that kind of power which created the world's great works of art, our fantastic structures and all kinds of remarkable achievements. The purpose behind this book is to see what lies behind this fabulous spirit of ours and to discover the real source of creation. This book tells how the author came to understand that prayer is the most powerful force in the universe, how peace is the foundation of reality itself, and that when we focus on that reality and allow our spirit to come into resonance with that reality, then peace does indeed prevail on earth. This book explains how there is a force in the universe that is more powerful and reliable than any weapon ever made. The author explains the difference between &quot;praying for peace&quot; and &quot;praying peace&quot;. <br />Yes, each of us does have the power to change the world but we need to understand the power of prayer, we need to understand the law of prayer and we need to apply the law of prayer. Theneverything will change - first in your own life and then in the world. None of the members of my family were churchgoers, but there was something that made me attend regularly. Prayer for me is very much a ritual learned in my youth. This book opened my mind to the understanding that prayer can and should be something more - much more. I feel that after a lifetime of groping around a door to understanding has opened. If you are like me and would like to open up to a different concept of prayer and peace, one based on an ancient wisdom that we seem to have nearly lost, then this book is a good place to start.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R2ODQ15HE9BTD4	0887306012	457766044	Managing the Non-Profit Organization: Principles and Practices	Books	5	76	84	N	N	Invaluable for all non-profits	Non-profit institutions, the agents of human change, have moved from the margins to the center of American society because government has limited ability to perform social tasks. As non-profits are the nation's biggest &quot;employer&quot; when considering the numbers of hours contributed by volunteers they need good management. There is not much material available to help non-profit leaders and management with such areas as mission, strategy, organization, marketing, raising money, innovation, use of volunteers and human resources, the role of the board, and relationships with a diversity of constituencies. This lack of material combined with high levels of commitment may contribute to the high rate of burnout. Although non-profit institutions have been America's resounding success and growth industry over the last fifty years they still receive only 2-3% of GNP while the share for medicine and education has increased several times. Drucker considers the first task ahead for non-profits to be the conversion of &quot;donors&quot; into &quot;contributors.&quot; Contributing time to a non-profit gives people a sense of community, purpose, direction and the ability to perform and achieve. But most non-profits still have to learn this. This book therefore sets out to do two things: provide advice from the business world appropriate to the non-profit and, through interviews with distinguished non-profit performers, show what can and should be done. <br />The book has five sections, the first being &quot;The Mission Comes First: and your role as a leader.&quot; I provide a few snippets that were particularly meaningful to me. Some mission statements work while others don't work, the ultimate test being right action. Almost every hospital says &quot;Our mission is health care&quot; which is wrong because no one can tell you what action or behavior follows. The mission statements for some colleges are confused. On the other hand Sears Roebuck went from a near-bankrupt, struggling mail-order house at the beginning of the last century into the world's leading retailer within less than ten years by having a mission statement that was operational and focused on what they tried to do so that each person involved can say &quot;This is my contribution to the goal.&quot; When an emergency room got its mission statement right, everyone was seen by a qualified person in less than a minute. But missions have to be reviewed, revised and perhaps measures need to be taken for organized abandonment. Things that were of primary importance may become secondary or totally irrelevant. The author tells us to watch this carefully or we may become a museum piece.   <br />To get the mission statement right, there are a number of searching questions that must be asked such as &quot;where can we, with our limited resources, make a difference?&quot;, &quot;can we set a new standard?&quot;, &quot;what are the opportunities or needs?&quot;, &quot;do they fit us?&quot;, &quot;can we do a good job?&quot;, &quot;are we competent?&quot;, &quot;do the needs match our strengths?&quot; and &quot;do we really believe in this?&quot; The author closes this section with the following paragraph:<BR>&quot;So you need three things: opportunities; competence; and commitment. Every mission statement, believe me, has to reflect all three or it will fall down on what is its ultimate goal, its ultimate purpose and final test. It will not mobilize the human resources of the organization for getting the right things done.&quot; <br />In the section &quot;Leadership is a Foul-Weather Job&quot; Drucker takes a refreshingly different approach by recalling that Winston Churchill was the most successful leader of the last century. But from 1928 to 1940 he was on the sidelines and almost discredited because there was no need for a Churchill. Fortunately he was there when the crisis came. The one predictable thing in an organization is the crisis. That is when you do depend on the leader.But to wait until the crisis hits is abdication. One has to make the organization capable of anticipating the storm, weathering it, and being ahead of it. That is called innovation or constant renewal. You have to build an organization that is battle ready. Having told us this the author goes on to say &quot;Problems of success have ruined more organizations than has failure, partly because if things go wrong, everybody knows they have to go to work. Success creates its own euphoria. You outrun your resources. And you retire on the job, which may be the most difficult thing to fight.&quot; Let me quote one more observation on leadership. &quot;To every leader there is a season. There is profundity in that statement, but it's not that simple. Winston Churchill in ordinary peaceful, normal times would not have been very effective. He needed the challenge. Probably the same is true of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was basically a lazy man. I don't think FDR would have been a good president in the 1920s. His adrenalin wouldn't have produced. On the other hand, there are people who are very good when things are pretty routine, but who can't take the stress of an emergency. Most organizations need somebody who can lead regardless of the weather. What matters is that he or she works on the basic competencies.&quot;<br />We are indeed fortunate that such an outstanding mind as Peter Drucker has turned his attention to the non-profit sector. There will be few institutions that cannot improve their performance by absorbing the lessons from this book. In this period of rapid change as Drucker says &quot;the only predictable thing is a crisis.&quot; If you are a trustee of a non-profit you need this book as a constant reference and guide. If you hold a position of power you should be thoroughly familiar with every piece of information that is relevant to your institution. If you are working for an organization that you fear may be heading downhill this book will help you to becomethe champion. There is so much wisdom in this book that only the foolhardy will believe that they have a superior wisdom and can do without it.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R2MMKZ50ASM72R	0671792806	649821276	Principle-Centered Leadership	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Excellent	I have concluded that the root cause of all the ills of the world is that humans do not live their lives according to the Golden Rule of doing unto others as you would have others do unto you. The Golden Rule is the common thread of all religions and can therefore be considered the unifying principle for every human on earth. It is probably the one concept that everyone can buy into but also one goal that everyone would admit they could and should do better. For myself I know that if I truly lived the Golden Rule I would feel much more pain at the unacceptable gap between the rich and the poor because as one of the rich I would see myself or my loved ones as one of the starving and would want to do something about it. The fact that I don't do anything about it - or not enough - means that I am just a wimp. Just a lot of hot air. I say one thing but do another. My failure, multiplied six billion times is what has turned this paradise we inherited into the crisis-ridden planet we live on today. It was a strange and wonderful discovery, therefore, that this book has been written to help me - and you should you be so inclined - to come closer to living the Golden Rule through what the author refers to as Principle-Centered Leadership.<br />A second conclusion is that we need more of the Mother Teresa style of leadership. She spoke very little, rolled up her sleeves and just waded into the slums of the poorest of the poor, while my leadership style has been to keep at a safe distance and say &quot;Hey, someone should do something about this.&quot; The big difference between Mother Teresa and me is that she lived the Golden Rule while I just mouth it. Principle-Centered Leadership is the book I was seeking to help me change from a talker to a doer.<br />Principle-Centered Leadership will help us resolve dilemmas that cannot be resolved using conventional approaches. Our social conditioning leads us to quick-fix solutions such as cramming; we may get away with it for an exam or two but such an approach would be disastrous on a farm where natural laws operate. There are no quick-fix solutions for a marriage breakdown or for a teenager in crisis where only principle-centered solutions work. Manipulative strategies might work for a while but will eventually result in a loss of trust. We usually think in terms of learning new skills rather than showing more integrity to basic principles. Principle-Centered Leadership introduces a new paradigm - that we center our lives and our leadership of organizations and people on inviolate principles very much like gravity is an inviolate law of nature. These principles constitute the roots of every civilized society, family or institution that has endured and prospered. Changing habits, developing virtues, keeping promises and living in harmony with principles of fairness, equity, justice, integrity, honesty, and trust is what this book is all about. Subordinating oneself to higher purposes and principles is the essence of highest humanity and the foundation of effective leadership. Adherence to these principles uplift, ennoble, fulfill, empower and inspire. Covey believes that violations of these principles cause societal decline. Principle-Centered Leadership is based on the reality that natural laws cannot be violated with impunity.<br />We tend to live our lives in compartments, each with its own value system and expectations. We wear our Sunday hat but take it off the other six days of the week. Centering life on correct principles is the key to developing the internal power we require to realize many of our dreams because we are more balanced, unified, organized, and rooted. Principle-Centered Leadership and living cultivates four sources of strength - security, guidance, wisdom and power, giving a foundation to all relationships and decisions and a sense of stewardship over time, talents, money, relationships, family and ourselves. Because we feel secure we are not threatened by change and criticism. Because we are guided we discover our mission and can write the script for our lives. Because we have wisdom we learn from mistakes and seek continuous improvement. Because we have power we can communicate and cooperate even under stress and fatigue. <br />People on the low end of the guidance continuum lead selfish, sensual or social lifestyles while those at the high end have lives centered on true principles from inspired and inspiring sources. People at the low end of the security continuum show extreme insecurity while those at the high end have a high sense of worth, self-esteem and personal strength. People at the low end of the wisdom continuum base their thinking on distorted, discordant principles while those at the high end show good judgement, discernment and comprehension. People at the low end of the power continuum appear powerless, insecure, and react to circumstances while those at the high end are proactive, make things happen, and take responsibility for their feelings, thoughts and actions.<br />It is difficult to imagine who would not profit from this book because Principle-Centered Leadership affects all aspects of our life and brings back harmony to the different compartments in which we live. If your marriage needs attention this book will help. If you want to improve your business performance, you will learn some useful lessons. If you want to be a better employee this book will give you plenty of ideas. If you just want to become a better person, there is no better place to start than absorbing the lessons in Principle-Centered Leadership.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R3FHR1N3K3TF7B	0712605770	927632183	A QUIET REVOLUTION: ENCOURAGING POSITIVE VALUES IN OUR CHILDREN	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Out in front	One of the decisions taken at the 2002 Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development was to declare &quot;A Decade of Education for Sustainable Development&quot; starting in 2005. However, it was striking that out of all the recommendations put forward there for building a better world there were only a handful of papers such as &quot;Globalization and Sustainable Development: Is Ethics The Missing Link?&quot; and &quot;Sustainable Development: the Spiritual Dimension&quot; showing that leading-edge thinkers have identified the lack of the spiritual dimension as the underlying reason for the world's troubles. However one defines &quot;the heart&quot;, it is the missing link in the world at large. It is imperative that values be introduced into the curriculum for the decade of education for sustainable development. How refreshing, therefore, to find a book written about a school that has successfully introduced a value-based curriculum. Successful because stakeholders appear to be well pleased with the results, it has had a beneficial effect on its league-table position and Neil Hawkes, the headmaster who introduced the system, was appointed by the Oxfordshire Education Authority to develop a value-based approach to teaching and learning in the school district. Hawkes is also an international consultant for values education and speaks for UNICEF and UNESCO. A single paragraph in the preface was enough to satisfy me that this is a school that I would like my children to attend.<BR>&quot;The school is working its transformations through a program of positive values and the constant, gentle encouragement of positive qualities within every child. Each morning at assembly there are a couple of minutes' silent reflection on the month's chosen word, which might be honesty, truthfulness or respect. The concepts were chosen by the staff and are carried through into lessons. Honesty might be considered in a history or reading class, truthfulness in storytelling. Concepts apply equally to staff: adults must be respectful during the month of respect and the head teacher will hold a door open for a six-year-old, whatever the current word. The parents are kept informed and most of them wholeheartedly support this work.&quot;<BR> Chapter 1: The Road to West Kidlington was written by the headmaster himself and two items made an impression on me:  &quot;At the heart of a successful school is a commitment by the school community to a clearly articulated set of values, which enables it to strive for excellence&quot; and the values education policy note for the staff &quot;Children are repeatedly given the impression that happiness is obtainable only from the material world. They are encouraged to experience life in an external world full of noise and activity. Impressions of a violent and selfish society leave their mark as the child develops into adolescence. Symptoms of pupil's stress are seen as children find it difficult to listen attentively...  Social relationships suffer as the child often fails to appreciate that building relationships is their own responsibility. As a school community we believe the ethos of the school should be built on core values such as honesty, respect, happiness, responsibility, tolerance, and peace.... They are the basis for the social, intellectual, emotional, spiritual and moral development of the whole child. Longer term they can grow to be stable, educated and civil adults.&quot; <BR>During Hawkes formative years as a teacher he noted certain attributes which he built into his own school such as:<BR>- one of his mentors took infinite trouble with everyone at the school - staff, children, and student teachers, ensuring that each child had access to the curriculum in a way that was appropriate to his or her needs<BR>- one of his mentors gave an extraordinary amount of his own time to talk to individual teachers to help their development<BR>- forming a meaningful personal relationship with each child was essential if they were to make good progress; good relationships open the door to high self-esteem<BR>- the quality of the teacher as a person is the most significant aspect of teaching since the teacher is a most important role model for the child<BR>- each child brings values to the school based on experience at home and in the local community<BR>- the teacher needs to make the students feel important and show that their opinions count<BR>- when the children feel confident with the teacher they do their best work and confidence is based on mutual respect<BR>- improving yourself is a lifelong effort that does not end with a diploma<BR>- giving respect and having good manners are critically important<BR>- if we can bring the habit of observation and reflection into the lives of children we will have done them an invaluable service<BR>- education should mean the entire child and not simply the programming by adults of facts for reproduction in an examination room<BR>- children have to learn how to be in the world and deal with complex situations from a position of strength and self-respect<BR>- overcoming obstacles brings strength<BR>- few adults, let alone children, can get by with no one to be supportive<BR>- the clarity obtained from drawing back from events to look calmly at the picture and see where it can be changed is at the base of leading a balanced and purposeful life<BR>- the calm created by reflection brings to the learner a capacity for observation unfettered by the habits of worry and mind flitting<BR>The twenty two values for living that are taught in the school are: quality, unity, peace, happiness, hope, patience, caring, humility, simplicity, trust, freedom, co-operation, understanding, honesty, appreciation, courage, love, friendship, thoughtfulness, tolerance, responsibility, respect. These are just some of the gems of wisdom taken from the beginning of the book. <BR>Other chapters are: Chapter 2: A Day in the Life; Chapter 3: How it's done; Chapter 4: Lessons; Chapter 5: Assembly; Chapter 6: Children talking; Chapter 7: Parents talking; Chapter 8: The Kidlington Blueprint<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R13F4GMEL8T2J0	1565491106	824981848	Cultivating Inspired Leaders: Making Participatory Management Work	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A different slant on leadership	It seems to me that there are two broad categories of leader - those seeking earthly rewards and those seeking heavenly rewards.  There is a wealth of material on those in the first category and by going to university or wading through a multitude of books you can acquire the leadership skills required. There are not so many books available regarding the leadership skills of the second category. How did Mother Teresa develop such phenomenal leadership skills that she gathered around her a dedicated group of followers prepared to live at the same level as the poorest of the poor in the slums of Calcutta and who would risk their lives in working side by side with lepers? And all this for zero salary, zero perks and no golden handshake at the end. Most of us would have taken one look at the job description and not even bothered to apply, even though there are plenty of job openings.<br />Bruce Lansdale holds the middle ground between the Mother Teresas of this world and charismatic CEOs of big corporations. For thirty-five years he was Director of the American Farm School, a nonprofit established in 1904 in northern Greece to improve the quality of life in rural areas by teaching farming, village crafts and industrial skills such as electricity, plumbing, sanitation to youth. For older people there was a community development program. Serving through the really tough years following the German occupation and the civil war when Greece was in a similar condition to many developing countries today, Lansdale's final years saw Greece join the EU and graduate to relative prosperity. These years gave Lansdale a wealth of experience recorded in his first book &quot;Master farmer: Teaching Small farmers Management&quot; which teaches the management skills required to POLKA - plan, organize, lead, k(c)ontrol and adjust. In later years he identified leadership as one of the most important skills to acquire, resulting in &quot;Cultivating Inspired Leaders: Making Participatory Management Work&quot;. We will have no difficulty in doing everything he tells us but he brings it all together in a way that is particularly appropriate for nonprofits. Ambassador Niles, President, US Council for International Business and US Ambassador to Greece from 1993 to 1997 knew Lansdale and the American Farm School very well and wrote &quot;Bruce Lansdale is the most inspiring person I have ever met, and one of the wisest. His work as Director of the American Farm School did more for Greece and Greek-American relations, than all the American ambassadors combined, myself included. His book, &quot;Cultivating Inspired Leaders&quot; presents the practical lessons in management and leadership learned over more than half a century. I heartily recommend it.&quot;<br />Cultivating Inspired Leaders has been written for leader-managers at all levels and in all work, particularly for those in nonprofits. The book is based on the philosophy that management is doing what you want with what you've got and that workers of every type and in every position are leader-managers if they believe that there is something greater to what they are doing than may appear in material form. <br />The transformation of an administrator who may manage by right, privilege or appointment to an inspiring leader-manager is not unlike the metamorphosis of the egg to larva to pupa to butterfly. How many of us fail to be the butterfly we were born to be because we did not have the teacher to guide us or we lacked the willingness to pass through the mental, emotional and spiritual struggle involved? This book provides the advice, guidance and inspiration to those who wish to travel this path. Peter Drucker observes that non-profit institutions that do not have a conventional bottom line may have to measure their effectiveness by their success in producing changed human beings. If this is so, the goal of cultivating inspired leaders is a noble one and may well be the most important task we face. <br />The goal of this book is that our management becomes participatory, that the helper and the helped become a team, that the manager and employee become companions, that the guide and the guided lead each other. The beauty of this book is that it spells out how we can do it and shows that each of us can become an inspiration to our fellow man.<br />If you are a trustee of a nonprofit this should be required reading. If your ambition is to climb to the top of a nonprofit you should study this book so that all the lessons it contains become second nature to you. If you are a secretary or receptionist or just starting your career, there is plenty in this book for you; you are a key person within the organization and can show leadership at whatever level you currently hold. If you have been appointed to a top post and find that you are a leader in name only and lack enthusiastic followers, you can become an inspired and inspiring leader. This book is not just a good read, but it demands a lot of you and your organization. The chapter &quot;Evaluate Yourself&quot; may reveal some unpleasant truths. No pain; no gain. But if you really want success for yourself and your nonprofit there is no better place to start than to absorb the wisdom contained in this book.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R1EI42CD4Y3PYC	0863152961	741148044	The Breakdown of Climate: Human Choices or Global Disaster?	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Very helpful information	During the period 900-1250, known as the Medieval Optimum, temperatures were about 1C warmer than today, grapes were grown in England and the great cathedrals were built. There was a sudden switch in climate in the late Middle Ages, the decade 1310-1320 was disastrous and many starved. By the beginning of the 15th century the seas around Greenland had frozen and the old Viking population had died out. The River Thames regularly froze over. Storms were severe and in 1413 the Scottish town of Forvie was covered by what is now a 30m high sand dune. Although scientists are divided there seems to be a correlation between sunspot activity and climate change. During the Medieval Optimum solar activity may have been double today's and it was during the mini ice age that followed that solar activity dropped to a low level.<br />Sunspot activity, on an 11-year cycle, peaked in 1969 and 1979 and was preceded by troughs in 1964 and 1976. Over a period of 90,000-100,000 years the earth shifts its course around the sun from one that is circular to one that is more elliptical. There is another cycle every 25,000 years when the Northern Hemisphere enjoys its summer when closest to the sun. Then there is the Milankovich Wobble, which may be the impetus that switches one climate regime to another. Interglacial periods last about 10,000 years with glacial periods, when ice sheets 1km thick have stretched from NY State to the Rockies, of about 90,000 years. We are due for an ice age but perhaps this is being offset by global warming. <br />The equator receives 2.5 times as much energy as the poles and if that energy was not distributed by the winds, oceans and forests the equator would be 14C warmer and the poles 25C colder than today. Although the winds have a lower thermal capacity than water, in a week the atmospheric jet streams can distribute the ash from volcanic eruptions throughout the world. The Gulf Stream, equivalent to 100 river Amazons carries to the north water 8C warmerthan the returning, deep, cold water. Tropical forests transfer prodigious quantities of energy in the form of water vapor by taking up latent heat which is carried away in massive rain clouds, with the heat being distributed by air currents in higher latitudes. This energy transfer is the equivalent of six million atomic bombs daily over the Amazon Basin.<br />Climate has clanged dramatically and rapidly over the last 1000 years and it appears that we are now living through one of those periods. Since the industrial revolution man has increasingly affected nature's processes. Since the war we have added to the atmosphere three times the CO2 released by mankind over the rest of time put together. Models indicate that temperatures will rise by 0.4C per decade due to CO2 build up - an increase which is unprecedented in human history. Rain forests act as regulators of atmospheric and ocean systems but their wholesale destruction over the last 40 years has seriously jeopardized the efficiency with which energy is transferred from the equator to higher latitudes resulting in a greater area of ocean warming up. Hurricanes occur when the ocean temperature is over 26C to a considerable depth. 1995 was a record year with 16 hurricanes. In one day a full-blown hurricane may unleash the energy equivalent of half a million Hiroshima-sized bombs. The El Nino has changed in the last 30 years from once or perhaps twice per decade to several years running; two in the past 15 years may have been stronger than any in the last five centuries. The latest El Nino, with temperature rises of 6C involved massive releases of energy from the Pacific Ocean, with violent downpours in desert regions and droughts elsewhere. Farmers had their crops wiped out. The Goddard Space Center reports a surface loss of Greenland's ice sheet of about 30cms per year. Mean annual temperatures 1m below the surface in Canada have increased 1C since 1989. An increase of only 0.25% in the fresh water flowing intothe North Atlantic will bring the warm northward flowing Gulf Stream to a shuddering halt. Global warming is more intense over the poles.<br />Man is managing 40% of the land surface for production but a reliable food base requires that climate remains within reasonable limits. Insurers tell us that the cost of natural disasters has risen 85 times since the 1960s indicating that serious changes are taking place. With more frequent El Ninos rainfall becomes unpredictable. With warmer oceans, hurricanes become more frequent. With melting ice caps the flow of the Gulf Stream might be affected and temperatures in Northern Europe would plunge. The unpredictability and rapidity of climate change has very serious consequences for agriculture and feeding people. For the first time in modern history US grain production fell below consumption in the 1988 drought. Normally the US provides half the world's grain exports. Demand for grain is rising as more people in developing countries eat meat. One-third of grain feeds animals. The rise in sea level, likely to be greater than currently predicted, would threaten one-third of the world's cropland.<br />There is still disagreement whether it is best to carry on with business-as-usual and pick up the bill later or to act now to reduce future costs. Peter Bunyard points out that we are woefully ignorant of our impact on the planet. We face the danger than many, interconnected, though separate positive feed backs could all be triggered at the same time, all acting synergistically to exaggerate the impacts of the others. We will never be truly effective while the earth's resources are handed over to corporate, profit-seeking interests. We need to learn how to manage ourselves and our relationship to the environment. Then we might have hope of bringing an end to the destruction that is threatening our very existence.  <BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	RN8I037Q7AEWX	1899171088	646756339	The Secret of the Beloved Disciple	Books	5	35	42	N	N	Very valuable information	If you are ready, this book provides valuable information. Ancient civilizations and religious traditions have pointed to this moment in history as a time of great spiritual transformation. In 1993  a white buffalo was born, changing color four times representing the four races on earth, in fulfillment of a sacred prophecy marking the shift to a society ruled by compassion and love. Three days later the father died, symbolizing the death of the patriarchy. <br />In 1990 James Twyman realized that surrender is not failure but that real growth cannot start until we ask for help. If you want love, give love. In giving we receive. In pardoning we are pardoned. Twyman's ministry began when he was given the peace prayers from the twelve major religions and as one sang to him he played the guitar. He then set all the prayers to music, showing that all spiritual paths lead to a single experience of peace. Peace Concerts have since been performed worldwide.<BR> <BR>The Peace Concerts brought him into contact with many people. After Jewish artist Jacqueline Ripstein's husband was murdered she committed herself to become an instrument of truth and unconditional universal love, knowing that we must open ourselves to God, be willing to give everything and then we can be used by God. In 1997 she was invited to paint Mary, the Mother of Jesus, for a Catholic renewal center where people of every religion could receive love, compassion and hope. Located near Medjugorge, it is close to Mostar, one of the worst examples of injustice and hatred. She had learned to embrace all religions in her work and to see that they were the same. After many signs, which convinced her that she was indeed the one chosen for this work, she saw Mary in the light of a stained glass window and in the wax of a candle. She painted through the night under the divine energy surrounding her. A Jewish priest read the wax writing that mysteriously appeared as &quot;God exists and makes miracles&quot;. The painting came to life, had a pulse, captured the essence of universal love and had a deep effect on those who saw it. Mary, the Mother of All, who asks that we wake up to God and live our lives in love and unity, told him that if their music and paintings are expressed together, many people will be healed and many will come into direct contact with their Divine nature. <br />Father John planted a peace pole in the Field of the Blackbirds at Kosovo where all the negative events for centuries have taken place. He told Twyman that Jesus gave only three commands to his apostles - to &quot;Love one another unconditionally&quot;, to &quot;Feed my sheep&quot; and to John, &quot;This is your mother&quot;. It is believed that John founded a secret group called the Community of the Beloved Disciple and Druro took him into the mountains along the borders of Croatia and Bosnia where the Emissaries of Light, a community founded on John's teachings, pray and meditate around a twelve-spoked wheel drawn on the floor. He was asked to spread their message. We believe that we are separate from everything, but that perception was never true. We look outside ourselves for solutions to problems but the answers are within. If we change our perception the world will change. Problems and solutions are intimately linked to our mind. Forget about everyone else; our decision is the only one that matters. We must take responsibility for our actions and the way we have abused each other and the planet. We are like a family with many siblings at different levels of growth, yet we are the same, one unit working together and learning what it means to be alive. Many are ready for what is about to happen but many will be fooled by the simplicity of the message. There are two simple truths that we need to accept if we are to move to the New World based on the laws of love. The first is that &quot;You're ready&quot;. Ready to release the fearful beliefs that bind us to the concept of separation; ready to accept that love is the foundation of our existence. The second is &quot;You are Holy&quot;. When you realize that you are one with the Divine Pulse of creation, that you are one with the holiness of God, then you see God in everyone you meet. When you accept these two messages you will recognize the next teacher who will take you to the Door of Eternity - the door that has always been waiting for you to enter, but you have been convinced that you must die first. The only barrier to entry is fear.<br />Shrinat Devi told him to go to Medjugorge, the village in Bosnia where Mary appeared to six little children from 1981 and a place of great spiritual importance and energy. Mary told him that the world of fear sits  beside the world of love and you choose the world you want to perceive. When we choose love, the world changes. The world you perceive is the result of that single decision. Find the Divine in everyone and in the ordinary. Look past appearances and see God's face in everyone at all times. Look past the way people are different and focus on the ways they are the same. See the world through the eyes of God, the eyes that see everyone as the same, blanketed in holiness and grace. Release your fear; enter the Door of Eternity through the person in front of you. Tell everyone to keep moving towards the light. Mary is not reserved for one particular group or religion but for the whole world. Each one of us is called to be a channel of peace - that's the real focus of our spiritual path. Humanity stands at the brink of reality itself; we have only to accept the two truths.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R3HGN9FZAFWOTH	068806499X	332829811	One Page Management: How to Use Information to Achieve Your Goals	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very practical and simple approach	A mythical Brian Scott was selected as president and CEO of a struggling company for his unique ability to get to the heart of the problem and implement effective solutions, being given two years of freedom to implement change. As he took up the challenge he planned a short-term strategy of cost controls, inventory reductions, cash flow and firing key people while seeking a long-term solution to ensure the future growth of the company. But he also knew that &quot;If you don't know what's wrong, you can't fix it.&quot; Scott was aware that financial statements could not tell him the whole story; he also needed opinions from top management. So he asked everybody open-ended questions such as &quot; Why do you think the company is in trouble?&quot; He found that almost everyone blamed someone else or a different department and it was clear that coordination and cooperation fell well short of the optimum. Lack of communication, finger pointing, refusal to accept responsibility, information overload, and lack of concise relevant data were among the symptoms plaguing the company. Scott was unable to get answers to his basic questions and the fact that he was ten levels removed from his first-line supervisors did not help. <br />He realized that he had to find the truth for himself and that relying solely on the impressions of others might give him a view that could be far from reality. Scott had two problems - getting to know a new, large company quickly and then keeping abreast of what is going on. The reporting process did not give him the real problems nor did it give him the opportunities being missed. He had a pile of information that had to be screened - a process he did not have time for. He decided to put all key information on three one-page reports:<BR>- Report #1: Focus Report giving key information on what you do<BR>- Report #2: Feedback Report giving the good news and bad news about what you do<BR>- Report #3: Manager Report giving the good news and bad news about what your people do<br />He then had to answer the question &quot;How do you define success?&quot; This leads to defining success factors such as profitability, market share, debt ratio or a motivated, productive and unified work force and then putting a number to each factor to show where he was now and where he wanted to be within a specified time frame. He finished up with too many factors which required culling to determine the Critical Success Factors. Then he had to relate the Critical Success Factors to the departments providing the information. <br />The information above was culled from Part I of the book which continues with Part II: One Page Management, Part III: Linking the One Page Reports, Part IV: The Power of One Page Management. In today's competitive environment many companies will go out of business in the next few years or will at least face a tough struggle. The approach in this book is very helpful as it focuses attention on getting key information. It is difficult to see how this book could not make a difference to most people. Few of us have the perfect system in place. When was the last time we asked &quot;Am I getting the information I need to be successful in my job in a speedy, concise and useful form?&quot; The fact that Dennis Scholl, President of Signal Capital Corporation could write &quot;I was so excited by One Page Management that I spent the bulk of my vacation reading it three times. We have now implemented the system for our sales force and it has already made a noticeable difference&quot;, suggests that the authors have pinpointed a problem experienced by many companies and that the authors have presented a solution in a readable and readily applicable manner. dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R14712SO8LC502	0712670750	468866998	The Five Lessons of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	We all need to learn the lessons from this book	Does this book, with its five lessons of life have relevance after the events of September 11, 2001? Does it show the way forward so that the west can live in harmony with the east? My answer to both questions is yes and in a few years time, I suspect that I will look back on this book as being very influential in setting priorities in my life. <br />Bill Adams, the author, lives in India and while taking a holiday in the north he meets an Amchi. An Amchi is a wise man who lives and teaches the wisdom of the centuries of this remote part of the world - a wisdom that has now been lost in written form but is continued by word of mouth. The wisdom stems from the fact that the people in this area are very different but they have learned to live in harmony and get along with each other for the good of the community. Adams visits a temple which is used by two distinct religions. One group is violent and uses blood sacrifices while the other is peaceful and follows the teachings of Buddha. That two such contrasting groups have been able live successfully side by side for centuries suggests that we have something to learn from their philosophy of life. <br />The Amchi teaches Bill Adams five lessons which changed his life and will, I think, change mine.  The first lesson is to take the time to discover what is important to you. This sounds easy but as I look back on my life I realize that I have only a vague notion of my priorities. Bill Adams decided that the most important thing in his life was his young son. Once he realized this he changed his life to give more quality time to his priority. For instance, his meal times became more important and more focussed. As there are only a limited number of hours that father and son can spend together, Adams set out to make each one count.<br />In the same way we are lead through the other lessons passed on by the Amchi. There is nothing difficult about learning and implementing them but with our busy lives it is easy to keep on putting them on the back burner and never actually getting round to doing something about them until it is too late. This book has helped me to clarify what are the important things in my life and to make sure that I keep focussing on them. For this push back in the right direction I will always be grateful. <br />Why are these lessons relevant to living successfully in our world after September 11, 2001? It seems to me that we have two broad options. Either we wipe out everyone who we think might commit a terrorist act against us or, like the people of northern India, find a way to live harmoniously with people of a highly contrasting life style. The second path is the only sustainable one.<br />Even if I as an individual am successful in living these five lessons, what effect will this have at government level? I believe that it is impossible to have peace and harmony at a community level, at a national level and at a world level if I am not peace and harmony in all that I think and say and do. The community is made up of many individuals and if a sufficient number have learned the lessons from this book we will influence the community and then the nation and then the world. Every successful society has a common philosophy of life and shared values. We can influence those around us in creating a philosophy of life which will allow us to live without the threat of terrorist acts. <br />It all comes back to the first lesson - taking time to discover what is important to us. If the most important thing is to have the most toys when we die, then almost certainly we will continue to live in a world where terrorism is rife. If it is more important for us to leave a world to our children and grandchildren which is peace and harmony, then there is no better place to start than to absorb these five lessons and to encourage others to do likewise. I am part of the problem and I have to change to become part of the solution.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R11F7QVO4AN18P	0813302773	413430355	Master Farmer: Teaching Small Farmers Management	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good for all nonprofits	Please don't be mislead by the title &quot;Master Farmer&quot; because this book is about management and will be helpful to all nonprofits. It is addressed to development workers, those who train them and to those concerned with supporting rural community development efforts. On one of his sabbaticals, the author visited Ireland where he discovered the saying &quot;Management is doing what you want with what you've got&quot;. As Director of the American Farm School in Thessaloniki, Greece, the author never had the resources he wanted but he did a superb job with what he had. He would stand up in front of a group of farmers and jokingly tell them &quot;I am going to teach your cows to polka&quot; and then teach the basics of management - Planning, Organization, Leadership, K(c)ontrol, and Adjustment. Hundreds can still remember him emphasizing the philosophy of the school - the head, the hands and the heart - by drawing a spidery man showing the over-evolvement of man from one with a big pair of hands, big heart and a modest sized head into one with a big head, but virtually no hands and little heart. While these lessons are invaluable for those working the land, the same lessons benefit the rural worker in other occupations.<br />Lansdale also believes that &quot;The story of postwar Greece holds invaluable lessons for many developing countries today. In 1947 Greece had just emerged from a decade of war and strife; its villagers were demoralized and fleeing rural life for the cities; and its farms were unable to produce adequate crops to feed its people. In less than forty years Greece has become a major exporter of foodstuffs, most villages have made the transition from underdeveloped to developing, and rural people no longer yearn to move to the cities.&quot; As I view the development efforts since the book was written in 1986, I cry at the money wasted because the decision-makers did not learn from Greece as a development model nor did they take to heart the wisdom in this book.<br />Lansdale became famous for his Hodja stories and if he failed to include one in his frequent talks the audience would not let him leave the room. But for Lansdale Nazredin Hodja was not just a wise legend and a good laugh, he was the tool to bring home his message of training master farmers. Rural life in developing areas is centered on the peasant, a word used by Lansdale with affection, admiration and profound gratitude for their wisdom and what they taught him. That a peasant has something to teach a person with a university degree may seem strange, but Lansdale took to heart Deeming's adage &quot;get close to the customer&quot;, listening rather than preaching, gaining insights and a depth of understanding which most of us would fail to appreciate. The author points out &quot;Many Greek and foreign development workers came to the villages with the idealistic conviction that they understood the peasant's problems and could solve them. However, they soon realized how important it was for the peasants to learn to identify and solve their own problems. Others could introduce modern techniques to the peasants and share new ideas with them, but until the peasants assimilated the ideas, they would have little meaning. The word economics is derived from the Greek word oikos (home). Although any rural development program must rely on effective planning at the national level, development workers must recognize that ultimately success depends on basic economics in the peasant home.&quot; Lansdale then goes on to say &quot;But much of the credit must go to the villagers themselves, particularly to the women, whose role in many cases has been even greater than that of their husbands. These master farmers and their wives are the sergeants of agriculture: the select group of peasants who have acquired the managerial skills to lead the country to its present high level of agricultural production. It is essential that developing nations of the world discover innovative approaches to creating such master farmers and the technicians who support them, by providing adequate management and technical training for subsistence peasants.&quot; And this is what this book is all about - providing adequate management and technical training for progressively more sophisticated and educated peasants.<br />Lansdale starts out the book by helping us to understand the problem. How many of us have got sufficiently close to the peasant to be really sure that we understand all dimensions of the problem, and thus build in failure to the best-laid plans? In this respect the author says &quot;The peasants generally accepted their feelings of helplessness in the face of constant misfortune as inevitable and played a primary role in initiating it. Their misfortune was something neither they nor those who wanted to help them could do much about. In Greece today, progressive farmers have grown to accept change as inevitable. If development workers in Greece and else where are to utilize the peasants' potential for change, they must first understand the characteristics of the villagers that once hindered progress in the Greek countryside.&quot; It is in understanding the characteristics of the villagers that Lansdale found his magic touch. This allowed him to correctly define the problem and then his university training could be used to help. It is because Lansdale was able to climb into the peasant's skin and look out on the world with the peasants eyes and then return home and meld that world view with that of the developed world that he has been able to make such a valuable contribution.    <br />If you do a quiet self-evaluation and suspect that you have not really and truly got close to your rural customer then I recommend that you absorb the wisdom contained in this book.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
US	51116445	R2C34MA6OJQME4	0060908556	638798217	The Greenhouse Effect	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very interesting predictions for weather patterns	In 1980 Harold Bernard published his research into natural cycles and the dust bowl era in the US during the 1930s, which lead to his prediction of an even worse dust bowl era around 2020, unpredictable weather patterns around the turn of the century, and serious implications for agriculture and feeding the growing world population.<br />His predictions are based on the greenhouse effect superimposed upon natural cycles, the dominant one of which has a period of 180 years. The cold part of the cycle appeared in the 1890s and 1980s while the warm part of the cycle appeared in the 1930s and is due to reappear about 2020. Industrialization and the emission of CO2 took off after the Second World War so man's influence on the 180-year cycle was minimal up to that time. However, the greenhouse effect superimposed on the trough of the cold cycle lead to temperatures in the 1970s being slightly higher than were predicted for the natural cycle alone. As the year 2000 roughly marks the mid point between the cold trough and the warm peak the ever-increasing greenhouse effect will be added to the natural warming part of the cycle producing much higher temperatures than would otherwise have been true.<br />A long succession of record high temperatures throughout the US, coupled with low precipitation, strong winds and poor agricultural practices, resulted in the 1930s dust bowl era when 350 million tons of the world's richest top soil decimated agricultural production and brought great hardship. However, Bernard's detailed analysis of weather patterns over the United States during the 1930s showed that local communities and large regions of the US suffered anomalous weather patterns bringing record low temperatures or very high rainfall. High air temperatures warmed the oceans causing record levels of hurricane activity, the northward migration of fish and the opening of the far-northern ice pack to shipping. Higher and very intensive rainfall caused many homes to be lost and roads and bridges to be washed away. During the 1930s almost every spot in the US suffered record-setting extremes of weather which caused property damage and lowered agricultural production. <br />As Bernard could foresee even worse times in the new century, the book was written as a plea to governments to take immediate action to reduce fossil fuel use, lower the CO2 -induced global warming and thus forestall the hardship that lay ahead. However, anticipating that his words would fall on deaf ears he predicted that the CO2-produced climatic warming would begin to accelerate at the turn of the century and that in the period 2010-2020 we would go into a climate warmer than anything humankind has experienced in the last 1000 years. We can expect higher temperatures than when England and East Prussia grew grapes, glacier boundaries were 500-600 feet higher than today, and sheep and woodlands were found in southwest Greenland. Warmer summers, however, can be offset by bitter winters and we can anticipate lower temperatures than those which brought harsh frosts to the Mediterranean and caused the River Tiber and the River Nile to freeze over. In the past there was moisture in the Sahara and a 200-year drought in North America where summer temperatures on the Great Plains reached 120F so we must expect similar occurrences anywhere in the world. Climatic warming is magnified in the polar regions so we must expect ice sheets to slowly disintegrate. <br />Because of the speed of change, we will have immense difficulty adjusting and agriculture will struggle with the vastly altered patterns of temperature and rainfall. In 1976 world grain reserves had dwindled to 31 days while the difference between a good and bad harvest (such as 1972 and 1974) amounted to about 10% or 36 days of annual world consumption. He points out that the grain-producing areas of the world, including the US, have been drawing down their water tables at unsustainable rates and that if the US were to loseits capacity to export grain about 21% of total exports would be wiped out, with grave implications for feeding the growing world population and the US economy.<br />In closing, he emphasized that the key issue is the enormous consequences we face when the greenhouse threat becomes a reality - especially the consequences for world agriculture. The cause of the problem is our dependence upon fossil fuels and the build up of CO2. We must reduce our dependence upon petroleum, develop renewable energy sources and make the switch to renewables as soon as possible.<BR>dwillis@afs.edu.gr	2003-10-17
