US	51114436	R1169RVHQGIA2L	0142002631	293390331	The Terra-Cotta Dog: An Inspector Montalbano Mystery	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Fantastic read	The Terra Cotta Dog is the 2nd in a series of recently translated Inspector Montalbano mysteries.  Hugely popular in Europe, it's hard to see how this series will not catch on in the US (and Australia!) with the Inspector's dry humour, wit, self depracation, tenacity, and understanding of human nature.  <BR>In the midst of uncovering a mafia weapons brokering scheme, Montalbano discovers a well hidden cave with 2 long dead lovers embracing, tenderly watched over by a terra cotta dog.  While his job dictates he must resolve the guns problem, it is the lovers and the dog that really grab his attention.  <BR>Not all authors can intertwine and simultaneously solve 2 mysteries, one of which began over 50 years before, during fascist World War II Italy.  But Camilleri does so brilliantly, keeping you turning those pages until the end.  <BR>Of course, he doesn't forget to eat, and I'm starting to enjoy the constant aspects of his personality such as his ravenous appetite for gourmet foods.<br />A word should be said here regarding the translation.  I don't know what a poor translation would be like, but I suspect that Sartarelli is owed some credit to the overall enjoyment of this book. <BR>As in his other books, the story unfolds in narrative fashion.  The characters are complex and believable.  There is plenty of humour thrown in, and his live-away lover makes a welcome appearance also.<BR>If you like a good mystery, you'll get 2 for one with this book, my favourite of the series.	2004-03-15
US	51114436	R2JSZ9JPY7V8QG	070894471X	680584417	Baby Come Back	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Very very very light reading	The premise of this story sounded good enough for me to grab it out of the sale bin at the bookstore.  Joe is an 25 year old married man, somewhat curious about his birth mother (he was adopted at birth).  His wife Molly helps him find her, then the story takes off as his birth mother turns out to be a flamboyant actress.  As this is fiction, I hesitate to be too picky about details but some things shouldn't be done, even in fiction.  The first big annoyance is the fact that Joe calls his adoptive parents by their first names.  The second is this undercurrent of dissatisfaction Joe has always felt due to having been adopted.  Upon meeting the baby she gave up at birth, Stella immediately falls in love with him.  A battle of wills for his affection ensues, involving mostly the wife and birth mother.  As an adopted person myself, I can assure all of you out there that I have 2 parents, one called Mom and the other called Dad.  Any biology involved was incidental.  An infant cannot feel rejected, so it's not like being adopted at birth can result in anybody's not fitting in, or feeling detached.<BR>Like I said, this is fiction, and light fiction at that.  But a pack of one dimensional characters, likeable though they may be, don't make for gripping reading.  Fortunately, nobody really gets hurt in this story, and it all winds up with a fabulously happy ending. <BR>If you find this in the library, or it is a gift, read it.  Not too sure if I can recommend spending real money on it though.	2004-03-15
US	51114436	RS3Q0PYKW7XNA	0142002399	261421472	The Shape of Water	Books	4	76	76	N	N	A refreshing change	Andrea Camilleri's &quot;The Shape of Water&quot; is the first in a series of Inspector Montalbano mysteries, only recently translated to English.  I wasn't sure what to expect but was pleasantly surprised by interesting characters, a mystery I didn't figure out in advance, and a protaganist with many layers, who is serious, intelligent, self-depracating, and quite funny!  <BR>The story begins with the discovery by 2 garbagemen of a local politician, dead in a car, with his pants around his ankles.  Detective work in Sicily is quite different than what you would expect in the US.  But Inspector Montalbano performs his job largely independent of supervision and is fairly free to follow up in whatever way he pleases.  <BR>The pace is relaxed, and the book does not have your typical action-adventure style.  Everything is revealed in a very matter of fact style in a storytelling manner, rather than one action scene to the next.  Not to worry though, there are plenty of questions to be answered here, and Montalbano gets to them in his own good time.  He manages to fit in a love interest, and some fantastic gourmet food as he goes about his days.  His gastronomic interests are amusing in themselves.<BR>I don't want to go on about the story itself here, it might spoil the surprises for the readers.  Suffice to say this was a very enjoyable read, with plenty of plot twists, that will make you want to read the rest of the series.  Highly recommended to mystery lovers.	2004-03-14
US	51114436	R1RQXRNXC2WTX2	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trapped in a perfect world	14 year old Susie Salmon likens her &quot;life&quot; in heaven to the penguin in the glass globe--&quot;trapped in a perfect world&quot;.  Susie narrates this story from heaven, which is where she wound up after being brutally raped and murdered.  She's in heaven, shouldn't it be perfect?  Shouldn't everyone be happy and surrounded by everything and everyone they love?  Sebold's vision of heaven is an interesting one.  While Susie will never again want for anything, she is still bound to her family and friends on earth.  She accompanies them through their daily lives and chronicles their pain while telling us her story.  <BR>Susie's was a typical happy family.  The horror of her disappearance and its effect on each member of her family seem genuine.  You cringe when she details how she ended up in heaven, and you can almost feel the paralysis that sets into her family.  I know if she were my daughter, getting out of bed in the morning would be close to impossible.  But life goes on, as Susie tells us.  They've turned a corner, but they are still living.<BR>Sebold does a wonderful job of character development in this book.  We don't learn much about Susie's mother, or really like her much, but that all seems to me a result of her incredible pain.  She is completely turned off to life.  Susie's father is the one holding the family together, such as it is. Her sister is in the unenviable position of being close to Susie in age, and looking very much like her.  Buckley is too young to understand, but he fills in the gaps in his life the best he can.  One of the more interesting characters in the book is a schoolmate of Susie's, Ruth.  Ruth is one of those kids we all knew in school, without really knowing her.  The bond she forms with Susie is a fascinating one.  <BR>The story of what happens to the people in Susie's life is interesting and not completely predictable.  After all, if you've not experienced anything like this (thank God) how can you know what will happenor how people will change?  It's an interesting study of a family dealing with loss.  Sebold has done a marvelous job of making us feel Susie's loss, and the parts of her life she feels she has missed out on.  The love between the characters is almost palpable, not an easy task for a writer to make us feel.  By mixing in some humor, everyone seems more genuine, and the book does not become maudlin.<BR>An interesting, gracefully told story of real people.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-29
US	51114436	R2BQ15XUNBIUW3	0375713751	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I can completely relate	OK, I cannot relate to our main character's job, unhappy childhood, or income.  But Kate's life is similar in more ways than it is dissimilar to many women out there who are trying to do it all.  It's not a question of whether she can do it all, it's a question of whether she can do it all to the high standards she has set for herself.  And let's remember:  this is fiction---Kate is not real!  But she is very funny.<BR>We get to accompany Kate through her hectic days of managing her job (which uncomfortably includes a lot of travel, most of it international), her 2 small children, and her husband.  Her husband's ineptness, whether feigned, real, or imagined, is hilarious and something I bet all of us can relate to.  I am sure they based this character on my husband!  And I'm also sure there are a lot of you out there saying the same thing.  It's important not to read too much into this book---it's not meant to be a social commentary, it's meant to entertain by making you laugh.  And it works beautifully!  I snickered my way through page after page, and really did find myself hoping she'd find a way to make it all work.  In the end, Kate reassesses her life and decides that driving herself isn't working for anyone.  Maybe you will and maybe you won't agree with her, and how she decides she will cope with it all but you will be entertained until the end.  Recommended to any woman who needs a 26 hour day.	2004-01-29
US	51114436	R14SY3LMMYXUVE	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Mass torts, mass money	Grisham takes on mass tort litigation in this latest legal thriller.  Although &quot;litigation&quot; is part of the term, there was no litigation involved in this book.  In fact, the most I've seen is amongst the various reviewers here.<BR>Grisham's latest protagonist, Clay Carter, is a lawyer slaving away in the public defender's office.  While he lacked the cynicism a position like this should inspire, he is tired and somewhat frustrated.  Doing the right thing doesn't seem to be very rewarding when even your fiancee looks at you as though you are letting somebody down with your lack of career aspirations.  As his personal life collapses, a career opportunity drops into his lap.  He can make a lot of money; all he has to do is throw out a few people nobody cares about anyways and maybe he'll be able to win back the heart of his true love.  A couple of lucky breaks, both incredibly illegal, and next thing you know Clay is the &quot;king of torts&quot;--the best at playing a game that only lawyers can win.  The plaintiffs are losers, as well as the large corporations that wind up financing the whole mess.  I found the inticracies of the tort system to be interesting, although the cases themselves seemed a bit unbelievable.  I am not a lawyer, but could easily make some arguments that could defeat Clay's legal maneuvering.  But apparently for these companies, it's easier to just fork out some cash than fix the problems you have created.  Is this stuff really true?  Does this really happen?  Probably, but lets hope in a more intelligent manner than in this book.<BR>The characters seem a bit stereotypical and as I was reading it, I fully expected some surprises.  Maybe one of Clay's fiancee's parents would turn out to not be such a snob.  Maybe Clay would ingratiate himself in the mass tort community and cause it's collapse.  Perhaps his fiancee would help him see the error of his ways, they would win a huge settlement for some horribly disfigured victims of a poorlytested pharmaceutical, give all their money to charity and devote their lives to providing for the disadvantaged.  NOT.  Everybody in this book is exactly what they seem to be.  Weak, spineless, completely lacking in ethics, any sort of moral compass, and conscience.  <BR>While the characters become somewhat tiresome, the ins and outs of this legal game are interesting.  Grisham has taken on a segment of the legal world usually limited to bad jokes.  It's interesting to see what money does to someone who has never had it.  <BR>Characters:  weak, don't fulfill their potential.<BR>Plot:  interesting, enough to hold your attention until the end.<BR>Ending:  No surprises, a bit routine.<BR>Overall:  An interesting, mildly entertaining read, suitable for airport reading, or a long car ride.  Won't keep you up at night, but will hold you enough to want to see what's going to happen next.  <BR>If you like a book with a little tension, read it!	2004-01-29
US	51114436	RVX14XBQCG9O	1865088021	479119214	Mrs Cook: The Real and Imagined Life of the Captain's Wife	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A fascinating woman	Captain James Cook played a large role in early Australian history, so we hear plenty about him and his exploits.  But what about the family he left behind?  Marele Day must have wondered the same and rather than quickly throwing together a story based on her imaginings, she put in some serious  research time and created a story that intertwines what we know about Captain Cook and his wife with some rich fiction.  <BR>In Day's book, Elizabeth Cook is an intelligent, passionate woman who devoted her life to providing a warm and happy home for her children and husband whenever he was home.  It is hard to imagine maintaining this kind of wifely devotion when your husband is gone for months, and sometimes years, at a time.  She suffered her tragedies alone, worried alone, and for the most part, lived alone.  Even her two elder sons, that survived their early childhood, went off to boarding school at a young age.  But Elizabeth possessed an inner strength and was willing to deny herself the desires of her heart to provide her family with what was best.  She bore 6 children, and lost them one by one.  She endured an unbelievable amount of tragedy in her life, but carried on with dignity.  Seeing Captain Cook's travels through the eyes of his wife is an interesting concept.  And Day does a fine job of making you forget this is a fictional characterization.  An interesting read, highly recommended to any fan of historical fiction.	2004-01-29
US	51114436	R2XG38SSN1ISJK	006050918X	71854520	City of the Beasts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good read for young readers	There is an age all young readers get to where their reading abilities and interests don't mesh well.  Capable of reading full sized adult novels, they find them boring.  Most books directed at people their age are ridiculously simple.  City of the Beasts is a perfect fit for those in betweeners.  In case you're wondering, I'm an adult, but am reviewing this with my 11 year old in mind.  For myself, it was a quick read, and a little silly.  But for readers around 10-14, I would highly recommend it.<br />Alexander's family is in complete disarray with his mother very ill with cancer and his dad barely holding things together.  In order for his mother to get treated, the family must split up and go off to the rellies for awhile.  Alex draws the short straw and winds up with his paternal Grandmother, Kate.  While I've seen her described as \\"cold, quirky, and eccentric\\" I found her interesting.  Her interpretation of love includes helping you learn to take care of yourself.  Alex's forced independence is something that will appeal to young readers.  Kate agreed to take Alex provided he would accompany her on a trip to the Amazon.  Alex meets a new friend, Nadia, and the two of them embark on an incredible journey of discovery---of people, \\"beasts\\", nature, human nature and greed, and most importantly, self reliance.  All life knowledge they will need to survive in the Amazon, and back home in California.<br />The characters are amusing and appealing with a few evildoers thrown in.  The plot is a bit messy, but clear enough for most readers, while providing a great backdrop for everything these two teenagers need to discover.  The ending winds up a bit neatly, but most young readers would be incredibly disappointed with any late plot twists.  Readers will come away from this book with a new appreciation for different kinds of love, different kinds of people, different countries, different lifestyles, and all the similarities that tie us together.<br />Highly recommended.	2004-01-29
US	51114436	R2MVTOATPQ9GYB	0684844257	306214571	Deadly Feasts: The "Prion" Controversy and the Public's Health	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The politics of science	I read this book years ago when still horrified at the infection of thousands of hemophiliacs with HIV.  Feeling somewhat distrustful of the FDA, it seemed prudent to find out what this next big threat was all about.  And now, with the first case of &quot;mad cow disease&quot; in the US, it seemed a good time to take another look.  <BR>Richard Rhodes takes a scientific approach to the evolution of prion borne diseases.  He traces them back to cannibalistic rituals and we realize they are not new.  The stories of the scientists that attempt to unravel the secrets behind prion borne illness are intriguing.  We are led to realize that scientific discovery is big business.  The brilliance and tenacity of these research scientists is revealed and while this book is not a pageturner like my favorite thrillers, it is gripping reading nonetheless.  This is not a thriller, or science fiction--this is true stuff!!  Rhodes doesn't sensationalize, but rather lays the facts out there for us to digest (no pun intended).  If you really want to know what CJD is all about, this is the perfect place to start.  You'll wind up knowing more than you probably wanted to.  Should be required reading for all adults, highly recommended.	2003-12-27
US	51114436	RE43J2U21O94Y	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It's never too late	Turow tackles the death penalty in his latest legal thriller.  A complicated issue, which typically polarizes any group of people, is handled beautifully by Turow.  He assembles a cast of interesting but real characters.  Arthur Raven is given the challenge of handling convicted murderer Rommy Gandolph's final appeal prior to his upcoming execution.  He enlists the reluctant assistance of shamed former judge Gillian Sullivan in his attempts at exonorating Rommy.  Prosecuting attorney Muriel Wynn and detective Larry Starczek attempt to re-prove their case as they oppose every attempt Arthur makes to uncover new evidence.  Simple, right?  Far from a formula thriller, Turow's story becomes more complex the further you get into it.  The characters are real people, not written with Hollywood in mind (my personal pet peeve) with plenty of flaws who make plenty of mistakes.  Are all their errors reversible?  Turow supplies us with the legal definition of reversible error, but in writing this book explores other kinds of errors as well.  Compelling reading, highly recommended.	2003-10-06
US	51114436	RB6BFYB93UHR8	0679776141	239763542	Passage to Juneau: A Sea and Its Meanings	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Passages	I initially picked up this book hoping for a sentimental journey in the area where I grew up.  The inside passage holds a special mystique among Pacific Northwesterners and is generally accepted as the most scenic, challenging, and historic way of getting from Seattle to Alaska.  But this book is much more than a travelogue.  We get to join Raban on a much more personal journey.  <BR>Raban is obviously an experienced seaman, who sets out to explore the inside passage.  As we accompany him, it becomes apparent this will be much more than a mere trip to Alaska.  He intertwines history, beautiful scenery, and his own personal reflections into a fascinating trip of self discovery.  Raban is a gifted writer who can draw you into the journey and the closer you get to Juneau, the more involved you've become.  His descriptive prose takes you out of your lounge room and onto the boat with him.  If you're looking for action-adventure, this is not it.  But for a beautifully written book that parallels the stories of the sea with real life, this is a great read.  Highly recommended.	2003-10-06
US	51114436	R2NE2EJJQSP9IO	0525947612	850019131	Everyone Dies: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Not everyone dies	Having never read Michael McGarrity fiction, I am unable to compare this novel with previous works in what is apparently a series.  I actually did not know it was a series until I read it somewhere, so that certainly says something.  <BR>I like crime fiction, and the challenge of figuring out \\"who done it\\".  It's disappointing when it's too easy.  That didn't happen here.  The story begins with the murder of a prominent gay attorney.  There are several angles to be explored, but nothing stands out that makes the victim an obvious target.  Our protaganist, Kevin Kerney, is pulled off his vacation to try to solve the crime.  He is then yanked smack dab into the middle of the mystery when his beloved horse is killed in a cruel way.  It all becomes very personal when a dead rat is delivered to his doorstep along with threats toward his pregnant wife and the rest of his family.  <BR>I won't go into the details, you should read them for yourself!  There are plot twists, interesting characters, real personalities.  The Santa Fe setting is a refreshing departure from the usual gritty New York crime novels.  The fact that the author is a former detective adds authenticity.<BR>Now that I know it's a series, I will definitely look for the others and catch up with these characters.  Overall, a fine book that I recommend to anyone who likes a good mystery and/or crime fiction.	2003-10-05
US	51114436	REOD08P283ZWT	074323152X	671137287	To the Poles without a Beard	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A real person walks to the poles	To The Poles is the story of a regular person doing something only few people even dream of---walking to both the South and North poles.  Catherine is an early thirties British woman in the TV industry who lives a pretty regular existence--she works, she drinks, she smokes, she thinks about working out but doesn't regularly find the time.  But Catherine finds that extra bit of steel inside her most people never discover.  She gets to the South Pole primarily on guts and fear of failure.  And we get to go along on this amazing journey.  <BR>I'm a big fan of adventure books.  This is the first one written by someone who I would not consider to be an elite athlete.  And Catherine is very real---she never pretends to be anything she's not.  In fact, I find her to sometimes be a bit hard on herself.  But the fears she faced on her journey to the South pole will strike a familiar chord with most people.  Who among us hasn't done something we're not sure about?  Watching her overcome her fear and drive herself to the South pole using guts for fuel is inspiring.  And she's funny!!  After this great accomplishment, you'd think she'd take some time to relax, but soon embarks on the preparations for her second journey---to the North pole.  Physical difficulties aside, Catherine overcame her big mental obstacles to become a better, stronger person.  A real story of personal enlightenment, and a very entertaining read.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-19
US	51114436	R2LSDEQ678AU27	0898864607	949906457	This Game of Ghosts	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Fear is the Key	From Simpson's introduction to this book we realize that it is perhaps fear, and overcoming fear and the accompanying exhiliration that drives him. Or is it?<BR>Touching the Void was a brilliant book, detailing a horrific climb and fall in the Peruvian Andes. But at the end, you do wish you could know more about this guy. This Game of Ghosts fills in the blanks. Beginning with his upbringing as the youngest of 5 children, we get to come along as he is introduced to climbing, and adopts it more as a lifestyle than a hobby. Simpson comes of age literally and figuratively in this book. His writing is more polished than in his first book, he is older and wiser, and has gone on to experience more peaks, more true friends, more loss. He explores these things in an effort to describe the allure climbing holds for him, while admonishing us not to assume all adrenaline junkies are the same. <BR>Don't worry, this isn't a philosophy book. It's chock full of fantastic adventures and once again we get to accompany him to dangerous places where we feel the cold, the fear, and the companionship of like minds. This is a must read for anyone who liked Touching the Void. Highly recommended.	2003-07-31
US	51114436	R2TK0NWWHFNXJW	0060916540	876635042	Touching the Void: The Harrowing First Person Account Of One Man's Miraculous Survival	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Riveting	Joe Simpson's narrative of his infamous climb in the Peruvian Andes is a fantastic story.  If you've read other accounts of harrowing climbs you understand people that climb the great peaks of the world have a different psyche than the rest of us.  Simpson is no exception, and it is that very drive that takes him to the top that enables him to survive the unthinkable.  But this book is more than just a climb up, a crawl down, whew he's going to live to see another day.  It explores some deeper parts of the human experience such as friendship, devotion, suffering, inner strength, and fear.  His description of the terrain and the climb make you wonder why on earth anybody would do what he's doing.  You almost suffer the cold, wind, and frostbite and you can feel the ice slipping beneath your feet.  Knowing disaster looms makes you cringe while reading.  Although you know he will survive, that takes nothing away from the experience the second half of the book provides.  He pulls you in and you crawl down that icy mountain alongside him, feeling the cold, pain, and sadness along the way. Included are passages written by Simon Yates, his climbing partner.  Allowing us to experience his point of view adds depth to the story. <BR>Simpson wrote this book to exonerate Yates, who was ostracized in the British climbing community for his actions during the climb.  Simpson vehemently disagreed with anyone who believed Yates did anything short of saving his life.  His initial goal was to record the truth, but he discovered he has a gift for writing, and for this we can be grateful.  A compelling story, highly recommended.	2003-07-31
US	51114436	RZFIQ0IVW8IOG	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	3	0	0	N	N	curiosity vs. satisfaction	&quot;From a Buick 8&quot; explores the horror that can exist in your imagination.  The Pennsylvania State Troopers that house the old Buick in the shed behind the barracks know horrible things surround the old car, but most of them can only imagine what this car is capable of.  But through this car, they have learned what fear is all about.  <BR>You already have a good idea what this novel is about, so I won't go into the details.  The story centers around the people working at the barracks who take turns telling what they know to a young high school boy.  The characters are well developed, deep, interesting people.  Their personalities are characterized by their reactions to the car out back.  The reader gets to know them through each of them talking about the stories surrounding the old Buick.  <BR>So, what's good about this book?  The character development, the mystery, the potential for horror, the fear it instills, and the curiosity it arouses.  The fact that King does not write down his exact vision of the horror lurking within this car is the best part.  You must use your imagination to conjure up what you, the reader, think this car may be capable of.  Is is the car, acting alone?  Or is the car a mechanism an evil empire uses to perform its deeds?  You decide.  Some may find King's lack of explanation decreases the satisfaction they derive from reading this book.  I did not.  I enjoyed having my brain tickled into deciding for myself what the Buick was and could do.  <br />I think King's enormous popularity has created an interesting situation.  Any time one sees his name as the author, immediately they think of their own favorite King book.  All others are compared to this, their one favorite.  For a true King fan, it's almost like having lots of kids:  all are different, each loveable in his own way.  Don't sell yourself short by creating expectations about what you read simply because of who wrote it.  Take each book and enjoy it for what it can provide.  Imagine how boring it would be if all of King's books were exactly like &quot;It&quot; or &quot;The Stand&quot; or whatever else you thought was his best.  <BR>OK, off my soapbox, back to the book.  Not fast paced, but good enough to hold my interest.  Well written, good characters, and enough horror within the Buick to keep your mind going.  Enjoy!	2003-07-19
US	51114436	R2M9JFZ6C60IAA	0743467523	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	1	1	N	N	SSDD??  Read and decide.	Four lifelong friends at their annual hunting trip in the deep woods of Maine.  Middle aged, each is suffering some sort of difficulty.  Mid-life crisis?  I don't like the term, but I think that's what King was after here.  Introduce an alien-possessed guy and you have all the elements of a classic King novel.<BR>The concept of friendship is not a new one for King, he must have had great friends as a kid to be able to capture the essence of friendship that lasts a lifetime.  But these 4 have a special bond, forged during their years of friendship with Duddits, their childhood friend with Down's Syndrome.  They are telepathic with one another. <BR>While there are plenty of people around in this isolated hunting territory, these 4 friends are best equipped to deal with the alien beings.  The alien &quot;capture&quot; consists primarily of mind invasion, making this novel one more of psycho-thriller than bone-chiller.<BR>So, what's wrong with this book?  It's length?  Hardly new for King.  The flatulence?  I fail to see how this is worse than boogers, amputations, melting skin, and other highlights of King thrillers.  C'mon you guys, lighten up!  <BR>Stacked against other King novels, this was not my favorite.  While it had all the elements of classic King, it moved a bit too slowly for me at times.  In spite of the advance billing regarding the &quot;brave thing&quot; these men did as boys, it's significance isn't made clear until late in the book.  The relationship with Duddits, while charming, also isn't clarified until late going.  I spent a lot of time wondering how the dreamcatcher was involved in this whole thing.<BR>But in the end, this novel is worthy of at least 3 stars.  Take away all of his other books and examine it on it's own merits.  The characters are believable, the friendship is sincere, their frailties and problems make them sympathetic. The storyline is creepy, you fear for these guys (although as much from the armed forces as the forces of evil),and there are several surprises.  One thing King does better than most writers is develop several characters and story lines at once which merge together late in the book.  This does not work if only one of them is interesting.  It works for King and the complexity of it all exercises my brain enough to make it enjoyable. <BR>I don't like it when I suspect a book is written with the movie already in mind.  While it wasn't as in-your-face as other books I've read, I had to wonder if he was thinking about it while writing this.<BR>All that being said, I still recommend this book.  There's a lot to like.  High expectations of anything King can make us critical.  But on it's own, this is a good read.	2003-07-18
US	51114436	R26D1NHOIL03ZB	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Aussie Legend Brought to Life	Every Australian knows about Ned Kelly.  He continues to live as a true blue Aussie legend.  But aside from his easily recognizable attire (steel armor, bucket over his head), what do we know about him as a man, son, brother, struggling farmer?  Peter Carey's vision of Ned Kelly as human being is the most brilliant piece of writing I have read in years.  <BR>Written in first person, in the language of the time, the first few paragraphs cause you to slow down and try to absorb what he's saying.  Carey takes the premise that Kelly wrote his story to his daughter, and the parcels of letters were amongst the \\"souvenirs\\" taken when Kelly was captured at Glenrowan.  <BR>While some may find this gimmicky, I found it inspired.  You can really believe Ned Kelly wrote this;  you can see him, you can feel his emotions, you can sense his hopelessness in a way a 3rd person narrative could never do.  <BR>Australian colonial history is particularly harsh.  Britain dumped their unwanted in a great untamed land for which they never could have been prepared.  And the crimes they committed to bring them here were not forgotten.  This is the world Ned Kelly was born into, the son of an Irish convict reminded of his heritage at every turn.  His story begins at age 3, and while his family is dirt poor, he remains blissfully unaware until his father's death when Ned is 12.  As the eldest son, he takes on the responsibility of his mother and siblings.  <BR>His story and his personality are complex and multifaceted.  This is a man who loved the land, loved his horses, and loved his family.  He despised conflict, but above all, he had an incredible sense of loyalty and fair play.  His loyalty to his family is amazing, especially in light of his treatment by his mother.  She fiercely loved Ned, but sacrificed him when her situation got desperate.  This was a woman who sold her 14 year old son to a bushranger.  \\"...I knew how deep I loved her we was grown together like 2 branches of an old wisteria\\".  She was the weaker in character, he would remain loyal to her until the end.  Ned gets drawn into conflict at every turn and seemed to fall into most of his dire predicaments when attempting to right a wrong, rescue a brother, or save his mother.<BR>An accidental bushranger?  Probably not, Ned Kelly never shirks  responsibility for what he becomes.  But in reading this story, you come to realize that the stories that live on, the legend, are more complex than you may have originally thought.  Was he forced by circumstance to commit his crimes?  We'll never know.  But it does make you wonder about the parallels between Ned Kelly and the desperate criminals we know in our time.  As Carey quotes from William Faulkner, \\"the past is not dead.  It is not even past\\".   Do we continue to create criminals with poverty, discrimination, and abuse of human rights?  A bigger question to take with you after reading this book.  <BR>Philosophizing aside, this can stand alone as a great story.  It has all the elements of a great action adventure novel:  great characters, tragedy, comedy, beautiful descriptive prose, and the ability to transport the reader to another era.  Never visited Australia?  You will feel as though you have after reading this book.  You will be transported to colonial Australia; you will feel the heat of the summer, the brittle cold of the winter, the hardness of the ground, the harshness of the land.  <BR>A myth brought to life, The True History of The Kelly Gang is a book not to be missed.	2003-06-05
US	51114436	R5LFGU5HJP5DU	0968838928	538119691	Alaska by Cruise Ship: The Complete Guide to Cruising Alaska with Map	Books	5	102	105	N	N	All You Need	This is all you need to plan your time while on your Alaska cruise.  I wanted a book that would enable me to make decisions about where to go when in port, what to see, what to not bother with, and how to amuse myself and my family.  Like everybody taking a cruise, we wanted to get as much out of it as possible!  This book is an indispensable guide to what you will see on your Alaska cruise.  It describes the various ports of call, has maps of the towns, suggestions for what to do with your free time, what not to miss.  Having this book precluded me from lugging around 3 different books and grabbing all those touristy brochures along the way.  Have you chosen Alaska for your cruise destination?  Then take this book along.  Highly recommended.	2003-06-04
US	51114436	RA8EVE8KWUC39	0679767193	524309685	Bliss	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dark satire at its best	Harry Joy is much like someone we all probably know.  A regular guy, a successful businessman, husband, and father.  But after suffering a heart attack he transforms into someone much more interesting.  He is rescusitated, but convinced he is in hell.<BR>Don't read this and think you know where this story is going, there isn't anything that can prepare you for the rest of this brilliant, quirky, dark, hilarious story.  Harry is surrounded by a cast of characters who are not necessarily likeable, but complex and interesting.  We get to know his wife, his children, his business partner, and some new friends as well as Harry gets to know people as they really are, and not as he thought they were.  This is a funny story, told in a serious way.  Pay attention and you will laugh out loud.  Highly recommended, Peter Carey is a brilliant writer.	2003-05-29
US	51114436	R16UDPH9GAGOJR	0140065350	918099119	The Year of Living Dangerously	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Keep your air conditioning on	You will be transported to the steaminess of the equator.  This is a wonderful story full of unique characters in the midst of one of the most turbulent times in Indonesia.  Sukarno's Indonesia is an edgy place in 1965 and the group of western journalists Koch assembles as his main characters can sense the tragedy ready to erupt.  Guy Hamilton, a television correspondent, is joined by Billy Kwan, a Chinese-Australian cameraman who determines that he should &quot;assist&quot; Hamilton.  Theirs is an uneasy friendship, enhanced by the remaining cast of characters, whom you will meet when you read the book.  Much is made of the fact that Billy is a dwarf, but that is what makes him so interesting.  It enables him to get away with things typically sized people would not.  He is a fascinating, multidimensional character who is far more an intellectual than people give him credit for, much more political than casual acquaintances would guess, and passionate about Indonesia, something he keeps mostly to himself.  Koch weaves a great tale here:  part mystery, part political espionage thriller, a little bit of romance (but not enough to put you off), and all of it packed into 300 pages of Indonesian atmosphere.   It is a carefully crafted masterpiece of storytelling that I highly recommend.  While readily available on shelves in Australian bookstores, it is likely less well known in the states.  Too bad, Koch's books are worth every penny.	2003-05-24
US	51114436	R10IL0P3LZ1ZT8	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The art is not lost	There is a special gift in writing short stories.  A writer must engage you quickly, hold your attention throughout, and wrap it up.  'Short' shouldn't mean 'light'.  And in this collection of 14 short stories, King succeeds yet again in writing gripping, interesting and often chilling stories.  There is no lack of detail in the interest of saving pages.  King laments in the introduction about the \\"(almost) lost art\\" and while there might not be many good short story writers out there, he remains the master.<BR>Several of the stories will seem familiar as they've been published elsewhere.  Don't skip them!  They are each worth reading more than once.  Because of the format, there is probably less horror than in his lengthy novels where he is allowed the indulgence of building up the terror.  But don't worry, there's still plenty to give you the shivers.  <BR>From the quirky 'Autopsy Room Four' which touches on a fear we can all relate to, to the real horror in '1408' there is something in each story to grab and hold you until the end.  I particularly enjoyed King's comments on each story, perhaps because I'm always trying to figure out how he thinks.  His imagination is endless and the places he finds his inspiration never cease to amaze me.<BR>If you are a horror fan, a King fan, a short story fan, or a reader who likes to try anything new read this book.  He truly is the greatest storyteller of our time.	2003-05-21
US	51114436	ROTG1JNA14P0A	0679771476	887180857	The Law of Similars	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Good Physician	&quot;The good physician will be pleased when he can enliven and keep from ennui the mind of a patient&quot;  Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, The Chronic Diseases, 1839.<BR>The same could be said for a good writer and his reader.  Grabbed by the first paragraph, this book enlivened me until the final word.  Another book about alternative medicine, set in rural Vermont, with realistic and sympathetic characters.  Bohjalian has accomplished the impossible by taking a setting so similar to a previous book and creating a story equally compelling.  The similarities end with the setting.  The protagonist in this novel is Leland, a 35 year old widower, struggling for normalcy with a busy job as a prosecuting attorney, and a much loved toddler to be raised.  He only ignores himself and his own well being, and the result is a chronic sore throat.  A sore throat that epitomizes his life---a sore tired reminder of what his life once was.  Desperate to eliminate throat lozenges from his life, he visits the local homeopath.  He is immediately smitten as he senses a lost part of his life reawaken. <BR>Leland is a very straight laced conservative intellectual, who is almost laughing at himself for trying homeopathy.  But when it works, and the sore throat goes away, he begins to see the possibilities for the rest of his life as well.  There is potential for once-forgotten happiness with Carissa.  But when she is accused by the family of a comatose asthma patient of giving him harmful advice, Leland puts himself into the middle of a gynormous ethical conundrum.  In trying to do the right thing, will he lose the one thing he was trying to save?<BR>The characters in this story are honest, realistic, and sympathetic.  I would have liked to have gotten to know Carissa a little better, but part of the mystery is to wonder how she thinks.  <BR>There is no protracted legal battle here, but even so, the answers do not come easily.  Leland's self examination brings him self awareness no jury could ever provide.  <BR>This is a wonderful novel, difficult to put down and thought provoking throughout.   Highly recommended.	2003-05-20
US	51114436	RE7A4GER8GXXH	0684859734	662513874	Grave Secrets: A Novel (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Muddy waters	In this, the 5th in the series of Tempe Brennan books, the initial departure from the Canada/North Carolina loop has Tempe unearthing victims of a 20 year old mass murder in Guatemala.  In the meantime, 4 local girls are missing, one the daughter of the Canadian Ambassador.  And, to further muddy the waters, a skeleton is found in a septic tank.  Lucky for the Guatemalan people, one of the foremost experts in the world on septic tank evacuations happens to be in their back yard working on the mass murder case.  <BR>The plots twist, turn, and intertwine.  Tempe herself is in some danger, but from whom?  And if her life isn't busy enough, a new man enters giving rise to the possibility of an improvement in her social life.  <BR>Kathy Reichs is brilliant when it comes to story telling.  No doubt her career gives her story lines galore.  Each of the Brennan books includes what I consider to be a fascinating lesson in forensics and this was no exception.  <BR>The 3 star rating in this case may be party as a result from comparisons to the other books in this series.  The trips from Canada to N Carolina were starting to seem like a stretch in the other books.  The Canada/Guatemala connection seemed even more of a stretch, as did the \\"frat-boy\\" relationship between Tempe's ongoing future flame Ryan and new friend Galiano.  Keeping Ryan at arm's length is starting to get old---either go somewhere with this relationship or dump him and move on.  I got my hopes up in this book, but that's all I'll say on that one.<BR>The twisting/turning plot lines were each interesting in their own right.  I would have preferred a couple of them to have been left out, it started to get a little convoluted.  The story of the attack on the village of Chupan Ya that resulted in the cruel murders of innocent women and children could have been explored in more depth.  If Reichs wanted to make a political point regarding this issue, then it should have been dealt with more thoroughly.  In the end,all plot lines, while worthwhile, were not given the attention they deserved.  <BR>The characters were all well written and believable.  Some did not get as much attention as they probably deserved.  <BR>The end of the story was pulled together a little too quickly for my taste, after sending us off into all these different directions, it seemed trite for it all to tie up into such a nice neat little package in about 2 chapters.<BR>Overall, a good read.  Technically, she did her homework.  But it could have been even better if she were willing to drop some of the hallmarks of the series such as the flying from place to place and the tired relationship with Ryan.  I would not skip this book, but if you're new to the series read the others before giving up.	2003-05-19
US	51114436	R159JNU7SYMUJG	0060084448	427472704	Too Many Men	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An exquisitely painful journey	Ruth Rothwax is a very complex woman.  Born in Australia to Holocaust survivors, she now lives in New York and runs her own successful business.  She is a combination of these 3 geographical locales:  she has the quiet sublety of an Australian, keeps the pain of the Holocaust close to her heart but out of her life, and has adopted a straightforward approach to interpersonal relationships to survive in New York.  <BR>As an only child of Holocaust survivors, she knew their pain and suffering on an internal level.  But since they never talked about the past, she was forced to confront it in her own way:  by researching and revisiting it she could forge her connection to the past.  We are reminded that the Holocaust survivors once set free, faced the daunting task of building lives with only their self reliance as a foundation.  <BR>Ruth convinces her father, Edek, an energetic 81 year old living alone in Melbourne to join her in Poland and visit the past.  She is compelled to know everything about that terrible time, and there are moments when you wonder why she tortures her father so.  <BR>During this journey, Brett adds a twist to Ruth:  she carries on internal dialogue with Rudolph Hoess.  I've read other reviewers comments regarding this, and my theory is that in her desperation to completely understand how this could ever have happened, she feels she needs to understand those at whose hands so many suffered.  While she despises him, she discovers he is more human than she would have thought.  She gets angry at being forced to speak to him, but never ends a conversation without some new insight.  <BR>During their journey, Ruth and Edek meet some fascinating people, none too likeable, but interesting nonetheless.  Ruth finds herself being angry and disagreeable, if not sickened by what she finds.  Edek seems much more accepting which leaves Ruth incredulous at times.  But you realize it is his ability to accept things as they are that allowed him to not only survive, but to build a new life when the horrors finally stopped.  He knows holding onto his hurt, betrayal, and anger will ruin him.<BR>There are some hilarious moments in this book, and some poignant ones as well.  The love and pride Edek and Ruth feel for each other are palpable.  Their ability to cling to one another against the past brings them both new understanding of each other and Ruth's mother.  <BR>This is a great book full of interesting people.  We are reminded that life went on after the holocaust, only nothing will ever be the same.  The journey unfolds as you keep turning the pages, and before you know it you're at the end.  How disappointing, I was really starting to like these people.  Don't race through the book trying to find out what's going to happen next, take your time and savor these interesting characters.	2003-04-23
US	51114436	RQUC1L6VU4IBO	0345426274	955062554	The Analyst	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Clever premise overcomes predictability	I liked the idea of this book:  solve the riddle and save everyone you know.  The premise is unique, and a protaganist who is a psychotherapist of all things.  Like other reviewers here, I can't say much without revealing any of the surprises, so I will assume you know what this book is about while I tell you my response.<BR>Ricky Starks is the central character, an analyst who apparently sometime in his past must have let someone down.  Ricky is a pretty boring guy, who lives an extremely predictable, rather unexciting life.  I think Katzenbach makes him only somewhat likeable purposely, you want to laugh at how weak he seems.  As the story progresses, his circumstances strengthen him.  In the beginning, when he is abruptly thrust out of his self imposed comfort zone, it shouldn't be surprising how overwhelmed and confused he becomes.  The plot makes you think \\"what would I do?\\" and more to the point \\"would I be willing to die to save another?\\"  Sure, it's easy to say you would die for your child, or your spouse, or perhaps even a sibling.  But how about someone you've never met?   Gives you something to chew on for awhile, doesn't it? <BR>The characters in this story are interesting, if a bit underdeveloped.  You get the sense some of them are hired guns for \\"Mr. R\\", but wouldn't a personal stake in the conclusion motivate them more?  Ricky, as the central character, is someone you get to know fairly well.  He is a bit dull, weak, and not too quick on the uptake at first.  But as this story develops, he learns to think exponentially, becomes a bit more interesting, and you find yourself hoping he wins the game.  Virgil and Merlin remain largely undefined, and while we all understand Mr. R is loaded with hatred, we don't really get him either.  <BR>As much as I enjoyed the premise, I found myself being quite disappointed that I was able to guess all the surprises ahead of time.  Including the big one at the end.  I should have been delighted that I was so smart, but it spoke more of the writing than my own brilliance.  <BR>In any case, this is an entertaining read and kept me interested until the end.  Can't say that about everything I read.  Get this book for a nice escape from reality that won't keep you up nights.	2003-03-18
US	51114436	R3CD2GVA49W5AB	0385333412	895394482	Dating Big Bird	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny, and all too true	Dating Big Bird is not the story of a woman desperate for a baby, nor is it the tale of a career woman suddenly in the midst of a mid-life crisis. It is not about a woman's relationship with an emotionally unavailable partner, or the sudden need to reevaluate everything she once thought important. Characterizing this story in any of these ways would be an oversimplification. <BR>Ellen Franck is a normal, mid-thirties woman with a fantastic job, decent friends, a normal family, and a relationship. But the satisfaction of living the good life is eluding her. What exactly would make her life perfect? Like many people of her age and station in life, she realizes a baby would make her life complete. She's not just looking for a plaything, or \\"someone to love me\\".  She wants the whole relationship, and craves the mother-child bond so much it hurts.  But how does she make the fairy tale come true without a soulmate? And when she knows her fairy tale won't be the traditional kind? What Ellen wants is what some of us have, and others can only dream of: that perfect relationship that can only exist between mother and child, the perfect love you feel for that little person that calls you \\"Mom\\". <BR>As Ellen navigates her way through her career, coworkers, family, friends, and relationship with a man not emotionally in the same place as she is, her needs and wants clarify in her mind. And she brings her readers along on a very funny journey to the realization of where she really wants to be. <BR>Zigman has a great way with words. This story is very funny, and her descriptions of the other characters will leave you snickering out loud. The dialogue is real, and the supporting cast seem very familiar--we must all know people similar to these. Women of all ages will relate to this story, whether you have kids or not. Great light reading, engaging until the end.	2002-12-14
US	51114436	RO2RCK10ZMGNO	0312289871	970494196	Robert Ludlum's The Paris Option: A Covert-One Novel (Ludlum, Robert, Covert-One Novels.)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	An Amateur's Attempt	In spite of Robert Ludlum's name taking up half the front cover of this book, this is skeletonized Ludlum, with the flesh filled in by a writer that lacks his talents.  <BR>The plot is Ludlumesque:  the explosion of the Pasteur Institute in Paris leaves a brilliant scientist, Emile Chambord, missing and another, Martin Zellerbach, in a coma.  Zellerbach happens to be a close friend of Lt. Col. Jon Smith, our hero from the other 2 Covert-One novels.  Conveniently, Smith is working on a DNA computer, doing researach similar to what his friend Marty and Chambord were working on.  But there appears to be sinister elements at work here by groups unknown.  The future of the world is at risk, and Smith and his cohorts must find the missing Chambord and thwart the evil forces' plot to destroy the US and alter the future of the world.  The plot, in and of itself, is no worse than most other Ludlum thrillers.  Unfortunately, the plot alone isn't enough to make me enjoy a novel.  The writing has to hold the plot together.  In reverse, good writing can overcome a mediocre plot and hold my interest until the end.<BR>The writing in this book is very distracting by its overdescription of everything.  It would be OK to tell us once that Jon is carrying his favorite gun--a Sig Sauer.  But to keep referring to it that way is annoying.  Much of the dialogue appears to be added superfluously to ensure the reader is not left confused.  In addition, I am not all that interested in the minute detail of what each character is wearing.  Laughably, it reminded me of old Nancy Drew Mysteries (\\"Nancy rushed upstairs to change into a light shift and matching pumps\\").  I would rather imagine to myself that Jon is a tall, good looking guy who is pretty physically fit.  But the constant descriptions of his \\"muscular body\\" or \\"his strong arms slicing through the water\\" made me want to gag.  <BR>Our heroes were a fairly likeable bunch, and familiar from the last 2 Covert-One novels.  Randi's relationship with Jon seems like it might go somewhere by the 5th book in this series.  Peter is quite 007-ish, a'la Roger Moore when he started getting older, and Marty is funny in his constant seriousness.  The baddies are left fairly undefined, including the surprise head baddy, whose motivation once explained, remains murky.  <BR>This novel could not hold my interest, and I was ready to toss it into the \\"already read\\" pile.  But I perservered, and things did pick up in the 3rd section.  By this time, everything had been well explained so the monotonous overdescription of everything seemed to improve.  The pace of the book quickened, and perhaps knowing resolution was near kept me involved.  <BR>I have nothing against Gayle Lynds, and to be honest, know absolutely nothing about her or her work.  I do know plenty about Ludlum, however, and this book does not read like the novels he wrote alone.  Since people buy books based on the name plastered across the front, it is fair for us to expect what we've enjoyed in the past.  When it falls short, it's only natural to blame the co-author.  In giving life to Ludlum's idea, she took it too far over the top, resulting in a parody of a \\"real\\" Ludlum.	2002-11-20
US	51114436	R1VVQXRW4T7KMF	0553282093	367620732	The Gemini Contenders: A Novel	Books	5	24	24	N	N	How did I miss this?	I thought I had read everything Ludlum had ever written, but came across this in a backpacker hostel.  What a find!  This book made me remember what it was I loved about Ludlum's writing, and reminded me that his older writings are better than all this stuff they're finding now that he's gone.  <BR>Vittorio Fontini-Cristi is the eldest son of a wealthy Italian industrialist.  His father's involvement in the hiding of a vault containing powerful religious documents leads to Vittorio's becoming enmeshed in events he doesn't fully understand.  With World War II as a backdrop, he is hunted by many who want the vault's contents and protected by some who believe he will lead them to the vault as his life is transformed.  He is never to escape this legacy, and before he dies, must pass it on to his twin sons--the Geminis who have both become involved in wars of their own.  One son is career army with a Vietnam background, the other a peace loving war protester. They must cast aside their mutual dislike to once and for all solve the mystery that has always been part of their heritage.  <BR>The book leads you through twists and turns, and the plot is classic Ludlum.  He doesn't keep the story moving with useless dialogue and the characters are believable.  The power contained within the hidden vault motivates many to devote their lives to it's discovery.  You've got to wonder what it could possibly contain to drive people this way.<BR>This book is Ludlum at his best, and I highly recommend it to anyone who loves a good thriller.	2002-11-04
US	51114436	R2VI7N95541000	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Complex, intriguing, entertaining	I almost feel as though I should apologize for liking this book, in light of what other reviewers have said. Perhaps I am just a simpleton, easily amused by almost anything. I don't really see myself that way however...<BR>OK, onto the book. There are 4 separate story lines running concurrently here, equally interesting in their own right. I found it a bit frustrating to jump back and forth: just as I was really getting into one, I jumped off to another one. It was like playing ping-pong with me as the ball. That said, I never felt any of the characters/story lines were so much better than the others that I felt cheated. I liked to think of it as a bit of a challenge to keep it all straight, knowing that the further I got into the book, the chances of the story lines merging increased. Mentally, you have to stay on top of things. But c'mon, isn't that what makes reading fun? Something different?<BR>Equally interesting were the different themes, each of which could have been made into a separate story. Sure, they could have, but why not combine bioethicism, child abuse, alcoholism/codependence, prenatal drug exposure, and extraterrestrial activity into one big story? This seemed to upset a lot of reviewers, but I found it an interesting way to touch on all these subjects without being oversaturated with any of them. OK, maybe I'm just as quirky as the book. All I ask for out of FICTION is that it entertain me, that I can follow the storyline, and that the writing is engaging. Koontz scores in all categories. If I don't fall out of my chair rolling my eyes at the dialogue, then it's OK by me. I found the dialogue, especially that of Mickey's aunt and Leilani to be hilarious. <BR>The villains in this story remain largely unexplored. But who wants to psychoanalyze these freaks anyways? I'd rather read about the people I like than the meaning behind the deep subconscious Hitler-like need of \\"Dr. Doom\\" to eradicate imperfection from his world. <br />Koontz has earned theluxury of writing what he wants. A little editing might have been in order, but overall this is an intriguing novel. It's refreshing to read a complex set of stories and see how they will eventually all intermingle. I recommend this book to anyone with at least a partially developed sense of humour whose brain can operate in several directions at once, who enjoys a good mystery.	2002-10-15
US	51114436	R30FPH2ZBGESP	0446610100	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	3	2	2	N	N	sweet...very sweet	Wish You Well is the result of an author's desire to share his Virginia upbringing with the rest of the world.  The result is a very nice story, if a little too predictable and so sweet your teeth hurt.<BR>Lou, a 12 year old girl with a serious case of \\"eldest child syndrome\\" is suffering emotionally from the loss of her father and catatonic state of her mother.  She attempts at all times to protect her 7 year old brother Oz, which might be stretching that sibling love a bit far.  They are sent to live with Great Grandmother Louisa following the terrible car crash that took the life of their father and left their mother in a twilight state.<BR>The change in lifestyle is huge:  from New York City to the Appalachian mountains in a small cabin with no electricity or running water.  Lou and Oz adapt quite readily, with the help of Diamond, the orphaned neighbor boy.  Eugene, the devoted black hired hand, and Cotton the kindly lawyer are there to help Lou a nd Oz make the transition.  There are plenty of ugly mean people around also, especially Billy Davis and his mean father who live nearby.<BR>The story itself is predictable, and the characters live up to our expectations.  The strength of this book lies in the scene descriptions, which is the reason Baldacci wrote the book in the first place.  No doubt he has many fine memories of the Virginia mountains and the kind of life he led growing up there with women similar to Louisa.  He wanted to share the beauty and simplicity of this lifestyle with his readers, while reminding us that there is strengh in moral virtue:  be kind to each other, take care of the earth, pray.  He is successful in sharing his growing up years with us, and the scenes he describes might almost make me want to take a visit there someday.  <BR>The story itself was nice, but maybe a little too nice.  However, I will give this book to my daughter (who is 10) today, for her first real novel.  I have no doubt she will enjoy it immensely.<BR>I recommendthis book to anyone who needs an escape from reality, and anyone who enjoys reading books that don't include graphic violence and sex.  A pleasant read.	2002-09-03
US	51114436	R1DCWN74LUXEWS	0446605484	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	I can't connect the dots	Roses are Red is a thriller featuring Patterson's favorite cop Alex Cross.  I should note this is my first Patterson book, and while it may not be my last, I'm not racing to the bookstore for more.<BR>The plot is interesting:  a series of bank robberies planned to the most minute detail and ending in chilling murders.  There is no obvious bad guy here, and Cross and his beautiful FBI cohort Betsey chase up weak to weaker clues trying to make a case.  In the meantime, on the home front, Cross' girlfriend is leaving him, and his daughter is struggling with a brain tumor.  <BR>I found all these subplots to be a bit distracting, almost more than Cross does.  No wonder his girlfriend is leaving.  <BR>This is a very fast read, with plenty of plot twists.  There are not really any red herrings such as those that usually exist in mystery thrillers.  The case appears to resolve more than once, but that's part of the fun.  However, when we really do get to the real and final ending, it is extremely disappointing, and more than a little implausible.  I'm guessing we'll meet this bad guy again in the sequel, which I may or may not read.<BR>I need to mention that I find the 3 page chapters highly annoying.  414 pages in 124 chapters.  In reality, this is a 300 page book.  <BR>Light reading, likeable characters.  A good book for a short flight, say Seattle to LA.  For really good thrillers, stick with Ludlum.	2002-09-03
US	51114436	R2NLG1G332J6M7	0440222656	691733737	The Horse Whisperer	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good writing, just not my type	I'm not sure why I read this book.  I'm not into horses, was never one of those little girls that had little plastic horses lined up on the windowsill and dreamed of owning my own pony.  At my grandfather's farm, my time was spent building forts in the hayloft and even then I didn't care about the horses.  But not to worry, this isn't a book about horses.  I won't go into the plot details, because most of you know them by now.  <BR>Evans is a fine writer, and has a nice way with words.  The basic plot is engaging, although the story appears to have been written with Hollywood in mind, a pet peeve of mine.  Tom Booker is apparently the perfect man, I don't think he made a single careless or hurtful comment throughout the book.  I found myself sympathizing with Annie more than I thought I would.  But as the story (and their relationship) progressed, I kept wondering how it could end.  In keeping with his character, Tom would likely not allow Annie to split up her family to be with him.  Were they destined for eternal unhappiness, each wishing to be in the arms of an unattainable ideal???  The ending seemed a bit abrupt, but it did tie up all the loose ends.  <BR>I would recommend this book to anybody who enjoys Danielle Steele, and to anyone who enjoys horse stories, providing they won't be put off by a bit of romance.  I don't really fit into either of these categories, which is why it only gets 3 stars from me.	2002-08-22
US	51114436	R25MGP6N35Z5PJ	0380732661	885145717	The Ritual Bath (Decker/Lazarus Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A different sort of mystery	I read this book knowing nothing about the background (this is the 1st in an eleven book series) and found it an easy, enjoyable, different read.  The scene is something I'm completely unfamiliar with (A yeshiva community) so it was interesting to read about the rituals, their importance, and the people's commitment to their beliefs.  The crime and the mystery ranked right up there with other good mystery novels.  The main characters, Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus are interesting, but not riveting.  The character development seems a bit slow, although they are both likeable and interesting.  Once I knew there would be several sequels, it seemed to make more sense---no rush in explaining these people, there will be time for that later.  Their attraction to each other was obvious, and the mini-mystery-within-the-mystery is how will Rina reconcile her religious beliefs with her attraction to this guy?  Fortunately for us, Kellerman does not stray from the crime and into a world of romance.  An engaging read that most mystery lovers will enjoy.	2002-08-22
US	51114436	RDRZ9EFFHLE60	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	2	9	15	N	N	An imposter in every way	The idea of an ex con artist telling his story intrigued me...until about the 3rd page.  This guy is an imposter in every sense of the word, and his biggest con is getting people to spend money on this book.  (There's going to be a movie???  Even worse).  I erroneously expected there to be even a light undertone of remorse, now that he has supposedly been rehabilitated and makes his money &quot;legitimately&quot;.  Abagnale comes across as a sociopath with no discernible conscience regarding his past actions.  <BR>His stories ARE fascinating, not because of his cleverness, but because of his audacity.  This is what enables him to get away with his cons.  But I found them difficult reading, because his egomaniacal personality gets in the way.  This is a guy that refers to women as &quot;broads&quot; and &quot;foxes&quot;.  Every thing he says and does results in people melting in his hands like butter, and smiling broadly at the opportunity.  Equally astonishing is his persistent bragging that he never took advantage of individuals, only banks and corporations.  <BR>I won't go so far as to tell you not to read this book, most people will find his stories, if not him, amusing.  But don't put more money in this man's pockets by buying it--borrow it.	2002-08-02
US	51114436	RYT5CFZOMT9F3	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	4	4	N	N	John Grisham "lite"	I always enjoy a trip to the South with John Grisham.  Having never been there, my imagination comes alive with his descriptive prose.  The beginning of the book delivered, as expected.  A main character who is intelligent and likeable, with a ne'er do well brother and a father, though dead from the beginning, with great integrity if lack of personality and warmth, and an old family friend with all the personality the father lacked.  So, great setting, good characters, what was missing?  The plot!  I kept waiting for the tension to build, all the pieces were there including 3 million dollars, but it never seemed to go anywhere.  I kept wondering, until the last 50 pages, who it could be that knew so much about this money, and seemed to want it.  But that wondering was kept in the background as I followed Ray from place to place hiding this money.  The most tension I felt was nervousness that he would be dumb enough to keep 3 hefty bags of cash in the boot of his car.  The end of the story is satisfying, if a bit abrupt.  There is a bit of a moral here---your good intentions may be viewed by others in a different light, but it all seemed a bit uninspired.  <BR>I couldn't help but feel as though Grisham wrote this book while seriously distracted by something else.  However, lack of intrigue aside, it was an easy fast read, suitable for poolside lounging.  I wouldn't say to skip it, but wait for the paperback.	2002-08-01
US	51114436	R1UIAOA6N6SMMH	0446343455	293791358	Tourist Season	Books	4	0	0	N	N	very funny, my kind of oddball humour	Having found this book under the seat of my car after lending it to a friend for 2 years, I had no idea what I was getting myself into.  Not knowing if it was supposed to be funny or not caught me off guard when I found myself laughing at loud at one of the early \\"terrorist\\" victims having been choked to death on a toy rubber alligator.  I was hooked!  There is a wide range of characters in this story, none of whom go unexplained, and all have seemingly justifiable causes to support.  The \\"terrorists\\" are a diverse group of whackos led by newspaper reporter and ecologist Skip Wiley.  He is truly the craziest of the bunch, but there was a part of me that towards the end sympathized with his cause.  PI Brian Keyes is a great character that I hope will turn up in his subsequent books, which I plan to obtain as soon as I can get ahold of them.  A great read.	2002-07-24
US	51114436	R12T12SNDM4ELI	0425179613	495393406	It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Everyone should read this book	While most people are probably somewhat familiar with the Lance Armstrong story, assuming he's like other professional athletes who have encountered adversity would be such an underestimation of this incredible man.  His story, written in first person style sounding very much like he probably speaks, is awe-inspiring.  He doesn't gloss over those years when he acted a bit like a jerk, or ignored coaching advice.  He's honest with his readers when he speaks of past mistakes which are probably rooted in an unclear vision of who he really is.  The cancer that almost killed him he now describes as \\"the best thing that ever happened to me\\".  He doesn't spare any detail when describing how sick he was, nor does he try to make us think he was some big tough guy cancer patient, putting on a happy face through countless days of torture.  His cancer story is very real, and this is a person that could not have come much closer to death.  But he chose to embrace life, and it was this choice that brought about all the changes that made him who he is today.  Anyone who is procrastinating about anything in life needs to read this book for that kick in the butt that will get them moving.  Need to lose a little weight?  Change jobs?  Run that first 5k?  Get out of a bad relationship?  READ THIS BOOK.  You will realize how soft your life is, and how choosing to LIVE, rather than exist, will make you the best person you can be.  Oops, did I make this sound like a self help book?  It's not at all, just an inspiring account of one person's life and how he fought back to become, in my humble opinion, the world's greatest athlete, and an amazing person.  He is on the verge of winning his 4th Tour deFrance.  Listen to what he says when he does, it will tell you what kind of person Lance Armstrong really is.	2002-07-24
US	51114436	R3TVN3BESMVM38	0553714759	244886090	The Nanny Diaries	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very funny read	Altlhough the title of the book might lead you to believe this will be a series of entertaining antecdotes about nannying rich kids, this story is really about a relationship between a small boy and his primary caregiver.  Nanny becomes Grayer's mother in this story, the one he can depend on, and who really has his best interests at heart.  The Valentine really sums up his feelings toward Nanny.  While Nanny takes on the job of caring for Grayer simply as a way to pay her rent, she is unprepared for the depth of feeling she will have for him.  She is the kind of person you'd love to have for your best friend, or better yet, for your nanny.  This poor kid's parents, as well as everyone in their social circle, are the most shallow, self centered, egotistical, dull people in the universe.  And in this book, they are totally believable.  Makes you want to go to Bergdorfs and laugh at them.  <BR>The writing keeps you engaged, and this book is difficult to put down.  It will make you laugh out loud.  You will feel Nanny's pain, and you will feel outraged on her behalf at her treatment at the hands of Mrs. X.  I can't think of anyone to whom I would not recommend this book for it is funny, light, believable, and entertaining.  Buy it, rent it to your friends for 50 cents a pop, and become rich.	2002-06-22
US	51114436	RTY9TB90ID3W9	0312276885	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	4	13	15	N	N	entertaining read	I've never met a Robert Ludlum book I didn't like, and this was no exception.  It followed the usual Ludlum format: handsome athletic protagonist who is great in bed and can do almost anything,  love interest who is intelligent and capable, and a plot only Ludlum could conceive.  <BR>Since this is FICTION, I don't expect reality.  However, in previous Ludlum books, like the Bourne trilogy, I find the characters more believable.  In this story, Ben is a banker, so his uncanny ability to get himself out of trouble and elude the bad guys is a bit of a stretch.  But rather than making me want to snort and throw the book down, I think he must be a pretty smart guy, maybe somebody I might even know.  As with all Ludlum books, it called me from the coffee table, giving me the perfect excuse to skip housework until it was finished.  <BR>If you like books in this genre, you will enjoy this one.  Probably not my favorite Ludlum book, but entertaining.  <BR>p.s.  I am saddened to hear of Ludlum's death, but think it is a good thing he isn't around to see Matt Damon cast as Jason Bourne.	2002-06-21
US	51114436	RF80X35LVU4ZQ	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good story, good horror, but don't compare it with others	There are plenty of reviews in here offering comparisons to the DT series and The Talisman.  I'll skip that part and attempt to review this book as a stand alone horror story.  So let's pretend, constant reader, that we've not delved into the plethora of alternative Stephen King offerings......oops, sorry, I lost myself there for a minute.<BR>The storyline itself was vintage King.  What would appear on the surface to be merely a serial killer of children, of course, has much more sinister depth.  There's a lot more going on here than just a crazy guy killing and apparently eating kids.  The characters are realistic and arouse an emotional response about them, you like them or are repulsed by them.  There are also the minor characters with their typical human weaknesses and idiosyncrasies.  As in all King books, people pick their noses, look up women's dresses, and tell silly lies.  It's funny!  Humour always adds to horror.<BR>An aside here:  one of the things that I like about Stephen King is that he is not afraid to kill off characters after making you like them, just as he is not afraid to have child killers.  Since nothing is sacred, you cannot afford to think you KNOW what will happen next.  <BR>The style of prose, especially the first 100 pages, became quite tedious.  I find myself being more forgiving just because this is King after all.  But if it was anybody else, I would have been quite put off by it.  It's not confusing, just annoying and slow.<BR>If you enjoy horror, read this book.  If you want The Talisman, better stick with that.  Go into it pretending you've not read Dark Tower or The Talisman, and you'll probably enjoy it more.   <BR>I liked this book, but in being honest with myself, think I may have ignored things I didn't like simply because it was King.	2002-06-18
US	51114436	R1C9N4P18R29M1	0375504044	393898778	Left for Dead: My Journey Home from Everest	Books	2	20	29	N	N	Letdown	After reading many accounts of the 1996 tragedy on Everest, I expected Beck Weathers' story to be one of the more interesting.  After all, he endured life threatening injuries, a night out in the dead zone, an unprecedented helicopter rescue, and a long recovery period.  When I saw the book, I thought &quot;Great!  I always wondered what happened to that guy!&quot;<BR>I think I probably would have been better off with my own fantasies and speculation as to what became of him.  <BR>His account of the events leading up to his helicopter ride off the mountain was sketchy at best.  It didn't explain to the reader the difficulties in logistics, the weather complications, the complex terrain and technical expertise required to climb Everest.  I suspect he remembers very little, but this doesn't stop him from stating his opinions as facts (Sandy Hill Pittman is an excellent mountaineer, Anatoly Boukreev sacrificed the Hall climbers to save the Fischer climbers, etc).  These types of statements will serve to polarize readers, who likely have their own opinions of the other players and will find it annoying that this egotistical, underqualified, wealthy hiker who could afford to be pulled to the top has the audacity to speak ill of anyone else on that mountain.  At this point in the book, I decided the interesting part would be his recovery, the road to self enlightenment, and the reunification of his family.  Wrong again!  I was subjected to several chapters detailing his family tree (who cares?), his upbringing (not relevant), his courtship with Peach (boring), and entry into the world of mountaineering (uninspired).  Peach comes across as an angry uptight woman constantly left wondering where her husband has disappeared to.  I found Beck to be self absorbed and whiny.  His jokes appear to be made in an effort to distract others from real issues.  He didn't delve deeply enough into the issues that redeemed him in his family's eyes and I was left to think they were so grateful he was alive, they just decided they'd all kiss and make up.  Other than his clear vision (apparently the only time his vision was ever clear) of his family when he woke up face down in the snow, he never answers any of the obvious questions---in what ways has he changed?  How does he view his family now?  Are they a family, or do they continue to be 4 individuals who sometimes interact with one another?  I was letdown in a big way with this book, and look forward to reading the next installment, the one where Peach discovers &quot;divorce&quot; CAN be in her vocabulary, and his kids finally say &quot;I thought he'd changed, but he didn't&quot;.  On second thought, I don't look forward to that at all.	2002-06-06
US	51114436	R9GDLZA3S9O9L	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Pageturner	This is a wonderfully written book that kept me engrossed until the final page.  Chris Bohjalian was able to introduce the reader to a world most unfamiliar---that of midwifery in a small rural area.   That he was able to describe the beauty of childbirth and the sensations that surround it is a credit to him as a writer.  I noticed prior to starting the book that he was a man, but while reading it actually forgot and was startled when I took a second look at his picture.  <BR>The story is written from the point of view of the midwife's daughter, Connie.  Her descriptions of her childhood and her parents and friends made her a very likeable and sympathetic character.  She also was very real.  Having been a teenage girl at one time myself, I remember the uncertainties felt, the friends that got me through everything.  She describes both her parents in a loving way that does not get in the way of the tragedy that occurs when Sybil is delivering a baby and loses the mother.  This is a luxury that must have come with her having grown older, certainly she wouldn't have been so mature at 14.  While reading about this sad incident, and the storm of controversy that ensues, I found myself very sympathetic for Sybil and her career choice, which she describes as a calling.  Here is a woman who clearly does not underestimate the miracle that is childbirth, and has profound love and respect for the women and their bodies as they experience it.  It is her attitude towards women and childbirth that make you want her to win against the cold men who obviously must think babies should be delivered on stainless steel gurneys with flourescent lights casting no shadows in a sterile, tiled, faintly green tinged room.  The sacrifices Sybil's family make for her are a testament to their love for her.  They are treated in kind by a loving group of friends. Almost makes you want to move to the country.  <BR>I saw this book compared with &quot;A Map of the World&quot;.  While the courtroom drama is similar, the overwhelming feeling of sadness that accompanies &quot;A Map of the World&quot; is nonexistent here.  Just tension throughout, as I madly turned pages to find out how it would all end.	2002-06-06
US	51114436	RI36YLMK8761P	0446516570	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is it a book or a screenplay?	Don't think by my review title that I did not enjoy this book.  I had a hard time putting it down.  Having read everything DeMille has written made it an easy choice in the bookstore, and I didn't even realize it was a follow-up (NOT sequel) to General's Daughter.  <BR>The background story that is fed to Paul Brenner to convince him to take this mission to Vietnam is a little sketchy, and in real life, I would expect someone in his position to have stopped this book at The Wall.  But once he arrives and we are allowed the privilege of seeing the new Vietnam through a veteran's eyes I'm glad this is fiction.  While not as tightly woven as General's Daughter, and certainly not as suspensful, it has intrigue in its own right.  I would expect most Americans to bristle at the nerve of the officials in this country that would search your hotel room while you're at dinner, or be able to get away with the kind of interrogation without question they were able to.  But most Americans have never left US shores, and have no idea what it's like where you are not guaranteed absolute liberty.  <BR>I agree with another reviewer, that I would have enjoyed a little more tension, with Colonel Mang playing a bigger role.  But I enjoyed the contrast between what Paul and Susan were experiencing vs what he experienced during the war.  Very nicely written, and he has the credentials and experience to back it up.  Very believable.<BR>HOWEVER, as I said, I didn't realize until I started reading that this was a follow up to Paul Brenner's life.  I read the book jacket after the first few pages when all I could picture was John Travolta speaking the lines of Paul Brenner.  I was disappointed that a writer I like and respect as much as DeMille would turn to writing a novel with the ultimate aim of hitting Hollywood yet again.  This was a complaint I used to have about John Grisham until he returned to earth with A Painted House.  <BR>The narrative, the place descriptions, the action (althoughsomewhat limited), were all wonderful, yet the dialogue in many ways detracted from what was otherwise another excellent read.	2002-06-06
