US	51114497	RGI9MLXCFWZ0D	0670033510	63045000	The Inner Voice: The Making of a Singer	Books	4	10	16	N	Y	Everyone's Opera Singer	Renee Fleming is certainly Everyone's Opera Singer - an interesting elevation in a culture without much interest in opera in general. Without doubt she's created a successful singing career, has a beautiful singing voice and plenty of technique, and maintains an admirable appreciation of the art of which she is a prized exponent.      So I feel a little badly not liking this book much. True, she avoids gossip, is accessible (I'm not sure what that really means), sells a great many CD units (she's even helped recast the idea of 'crossover artist') AND writes well, with unexpectedly deft touches artfully sprinkled here and there. But for me, there's something bland and lacking in the book, in all the success, accessibility, and golden child praise universal. I find the same unfortunately characteristic of her musical art, when all is said and done. I hear a wonderfully displayed sound, a carefully construed art, yet feel very little. I heard Fleming remark (during a 60 Minutes interview) that \\"opera, after all, is basically screaming\\". An odd intimation for an opera singer to make, I thought. In this book, more evidence is at hand that Fleming's is an art not patient with profoundness. Not a crime, but it IS unpleasantly ironic, leaving a listener with few choices.     The great sopranos of the 20th c. she does not surpass. How near she has come to their contribution is a question ill viewed in the light of so many of her passing views about music and opera found in this book. I read it through, and maybe my receptors are way off mark. Who am I to argue with the world? Her often repeated views on the importance of a perfect passagio are commendably argued. For me, ultimately, her art itself fares less well. I wanted to offer 3 stars, but couldn't bring myself to do it. An interesting enough book for those interested in singers.	2005-08-15
US	51114497	RNSJ592VNR54	038518056X	367540673	Pontiff	Books	3	3	5	N	N	better than tabloid	This isnt a very well written book.  Quite a number of factual errors throughout, particularly in the section on Paul VI.  Yes, it's interesting to read closeup shot after closeup shot, but what are we reading?  The general picture that emerges after the intimate detail telling and revealing of secrets is probably more or less true, who can know?  We know Cody was a kind of monster, we know about the Vatican Bank thugs, we know Pope Paul's desolate vacillation and its fruit.  Archbishop Lefebvre comes in for short shrift given the effect his decisions have had on the Church in succeeding years, and the angle of the authors leaves little doubt how they view the bishop who would not submit.  John Pauls I & II are ably treated but like Paul VI are only superficially plumbed.  It's a popular book destined for those who want but a glance.  The worst of this book is its shallow intent.  Digging up facts and getting servants to spill this or that nugget doesnt form an engaging picture of the interior life of any papacy, let alone one as important as Montini's.  Paul VI's considerable body of writings is overlooked, the animus between Villot and Benelli is hardly noted, and on and on.  'Pontiff' makes no claim as an historical work, but it claims to divulge history.  I wonder.  How can we know the intimate life of a pope?  Should we?  We read the history, that's enough, leave mystery its place.  The rest pursues the gross tabloid chimera like a tracking hound, and makes for a fairly dismal book.	2005-05-27
US	51114497	RVYXSBZCC3KJO	0872139816	941715684	Secrets of Romanism	Books	1	15	25	N	N	a sorry wicked mess	I first encountered this book over forty years ago.  If Joseph Zacchello ever was in reality a Catholic priest, he evidently paid scant attention to his seminary lessons.  Unlike today, back in the day of Zacchello the Seminarian the Catholic Church actually taught Roman Catholic doctrine in its seminaries, witness the exponential growth of the Church in America and elsewhere during the reign of Pius XII, a fact rebuking the lamentable post-Conciliar record.  Zacchello's ignorance with respect to the doctrine and customs of the Roman Church is embarassing.  An example: use of the ancient ecclesiastical custom of speaking of the Roman Pontiff as 'Our Most Holy Lord the Pope' is construed by Zacchello as proof that Catholics believe the pope is God Himself.  This kind of illiteracy is barbarism, and the book is filled with it.  Its hatreds and lies are violent, even disturbing.  The author spits rather than writes, and never more disturbingly than in the vitriol he concocts against the historical mother of Jesus.  Polemics, after all, has standards; even the most convinced anti-Catholic person will find nothing here but the decayed spiritual death of the hater.  It is mortifying to know this book is still published and available to the public, while so many valuable worthwhile books are out of print.  What a comment on the culture we live in!  The only secrets you'll find in this book are those that mock the reader to his moral peril.	2005-05-26
US	51114497	R2KRTCVGMA2CTZ	0393315517	206766404	Plant Dreaming Deep	Books	5	49	50	N	N	subtle lessons	I don't know who reads May Sarton nowadays (hopefully at least students are still imbibing) for hers is a chosen art beholden to stillness and its plenitude, and we know the short shrift given to reflection in an oversized disposable culture.  I do know that everything she's written holds magical lessons for every writer - her poems and journals are steeped in subtle lessons of patience, fearlessness and conscience.  Plant Dreaming Deep (a title intended both as admonition and hopeful reflection) is a masterpiece.  Part memoir, journal, survival guide, it's a kind of holy book for seekers searching the scrub of rocks and weeds.  Sarton's intrepid gift has always been to secure for us the infinite contained in the small and unnoticed, to plant within the careful reader a kind of loving understanding to bloom unexpectedly farther on down the road, easing the load even as it deepens the search.  Above all else, hers is an enlightening art that cannot lead astray.   Quietly artful black and white photographs (of house and garden and friends - most by Lotte Jacobi and Eleanor Blair) are among the treasure found in the 1983 Norton paperback edition I own.  Sarton's voice never fails; it's always rich and reasonable and true.  It's easy to surmise that she's a overlooked writer, but if you really want what you're looking for, read May Sarton.  Once born inside you, she's faithful to the end.	2005-04-21
US	51114497	R2NSIYMZB5QH5G	0743251040	782484777	The Serpent and the Moon: Two Rivals for the Love of a Renaissance King	Books	2	24	26	N	Y	tedious and vicious	This book is a royal dud.  Unbearably tedious accumulation of detail and a vicious treatment of Catherine de Medici mark this as an unworthy book of history.  It's a surprising disappointment in that Princess Michael of Kent has generally seemed one of the more intellectually solid members of the British royal family.  The pages are laden with imperial minutiae to the point of distraction, serving only to interrupt the telling of the beguiling tale of Henri II and the contest between his wife and mistress.  When the author gets distracted you can bet so does the reader, and it happens over and over again.  The author's writing style has no simplicity about it when simplicity is the very tool needed to bring sympathy, and with it a genuine understanding of the history it seeks to reveal.  Catherine de Medici has rarely been treated so forlornly, yet the fascinated affection lavished on Diane de Poitiers in the end makes a shallow mess of her story.  The book desperately needs an unflinching editor, and the author needs a new direction and maybe a change of heart.  This is more fairytale land than it is a presentable history.	2005-04-21
US	51114497	R3L86O0F173QI6	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	beautiful and brave	Azar Nafisi's superb intellect is matched on every page of this book by her watchfulness and bravery, and the combination makes for fine reading.  It's difficult to overstate the importance this book might have for the West, for women AND men, and especially for young people, students.  Nafisi's story of her 'secret book club' strikes notes of a parallel challenge immediately understood by the watchful ones in America, particularly, where disinclination to confront the tightening grip of the theocratic bullies of a notorious political right wing is still on the upsurge.  The author is unafraid of self-examination, and her instincts, both moral and literary, are impeccable and essential.  Recommended to me by my college daughter, it took me a long time to get around to reading this book, now I'm grateful I did.  It's a moving and celebratory affirmation of life and freedom not to be missed.	2005-04-21
US	51114497	R37EXUIJ0VZ23P	1901157261	753625021	The Loving Struggle Between God and the Soul (Honeycomb)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the reverse of a dreamer	Peers' observation of Juan de los Angeles as 'the reverse of a dreamer' is well taken.  A spiritual giant comparable to and more accessible than John of the Cross is revealed in this book.  Fray Juan may be less rough than the great discalced mystic, but a spiritual language of delight serves them each in equal measure.  Copious traces of St Bernard's practical sweetness run through Fray Juan's holy preaching, making the book easy to read and love.  His is a sound and practical spiritual flight shorn of the extraneous.<br /><br />'The Loving Struggle' is one of (so far) three books called the Honeycomb Series, beautifully published by Saint Austin Press; the other two are St John Cassian's 'Monastic Institutes' and Louis de Blois' 'Comfort For the Faint-Hearted'.  Nothing fainthearted about the spiritual brief of Fray Juan de los Angeles.  This book will fascinate religious, and especially students of the school of Spanish mystics, but it's strong and wise enough to provide substantial increase for almost any seeker.	2005-04-20
US	51114497	R1ZM4TP7KQA0UQ	0312272057	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	something to crow about	The thing that makes Burroughs' confession so startling and new is flat out gigantic literary genius that's afraid of nothing and as supple as a fish.  This book blew my mind and made me run to read Running with Scissors which is nearly as fine a book.  It isnt really that Burroughs' genius isnt apparent, it's that it's so damn transparent - the pages burn with it but remain cool to the touch.  He's a teacher and whiner and master pretender.  I laughed out loud through most of it and wanted more when it was finished.  I heartily recommend its brilliance to anyone fascinated enough by the mystery of literature's perfections to take on one its premier practitioners.  The recompense is nothing less than each and every one of Burrough's ecstatic joys and sorrows.	2005-04-17
US	51114497	R1G2TKVMQ2AGT1	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	4	38	43	N	Y	listening to Ishmael	This book's been alternately excessively hyped and criticized.  Some of the reviews on this page make me question whether those reviewers and I read the same book.  The book's arch premise is highly focused (not simplified) in order to successfully posit its all-embracing point: human beings are ignorantly destroying the world in which they live.  It's not a book about a return to primitive man, neither is it about ideas already understood by most people; if that were the case, corporate greed, mindless militarism and fetishistic destruction of the environment would not be the cataclysmic problems they have assuredly become.  There's a good deal of honest wisdom in the pages of Ishmael despite the quasi cultic aspects found on the ishmael.com website.  This is a book that can help teach people in this society to listen.  THAT's its erstwhile contribution.  Try this experiment sometime: note how often you experience someone say they \\"listened to\\" something (a book, another person, the circumstance of any human quandary) and contrast it with the number of times you hear people say they \\"heard\\" something.  The results of this simple little survey will astonish you.  THAT's the value of the tale of teacher Ishmael.  Until any society that measures its wealth by consumption is converted to a culture that listens, any hope for the necessarily radical reconfiguring of the means and the end is a pipe dream.  The book addresses that condition with insight, a superbly original idea, an intriguing 'hero' and a genuine push for a wakeup call that fairly charges out of the author from beginning to end.  Great literature it ain't - a critical choice is what's revealed, and it's powerful.	2005-04-16
US	51114497	R1MB8FOMP2RE9F	0060539283	803755288	The Inner Experience: Notes on Contemplation	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	don't walk by	Scorned by religious literalists and always misappropriated by mindless innovators, Merton truly is the most Catholic man, the most ardent Monk, and The Inner Experience his subtlest and deepest book.  In a towering 150 pages, an intellectual presence vast and keen enough to subserve an inexhaustible faith is at work renewing Christian thought, opening doors and finding the authentic where reigned before naught but numinous habit.  The middle chapters on John of the Cross' doctrines of darkness and acceptance are surely among the finest in all of Merton's work.  Page after page, as our understanding increases Merton's concerns expand, but the experience never spirals out of reach, instead moving deeper and firmer.  His interior grasp of buddhist concepts and an original and invigorating line of Zen thought pursue the book like a consuming fire, in the end making of Merton's Christian wisdom something divinised and freely given.  Thirty some years after his death, he can only be called an inextinguishable thinker and one of the most remarkable writers of any age.  Ten years in the writing, Inner Experience is meticulously and generously edited by William Shannon.  If you want to know what Merton can give you, human reader, pick up this book.  Not a recommendation alone, more an insistence.  Don't walk by.	2005-04-15
US	51114497	R3HDKO8OQHXHXM	0781292352	941449483	Making Of Music, The (Music Book Index)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	estimable teaching	This little 61 page book is comprised of a revision of five lectures given by Vaughan Williams at Cornell and Yale universities in 1954.  The subjects covered are Why do we make music and What is music, How do we make music, What are the social foundations of music, The folk-song movement, and finally a deft little summary of sorts entitled Making your own music.    Vaughan Williams reveals his deepest beliefs about music in these few pages, beliefs  one finds richly abiding in his musical works.  He is uncompromisingly English throughout - clear and spare and jubilant at the truth music affords - all done with subtlety, clarity and inventive thought.  Mendelssohn used to say that the meaning of music was too precise for words, and perhaps this English composer has successfully defied that conclusion with these forthright essays.      Citing Tovey that Bach never wrote for unaccompanied chorus (something that hadnt strictly speaking occured to me), Vaughan Williams quotes from 'St John's Passion' then chases Bach's true intentions over a page and a half finally concluding that perhaps what Bach really intended is actually realized in performances of his keyboard music played on a modern piano, not \\"the nasty jangling of the harpsichord to which he was condemned for filling in his continuo\\".    Biting and bright, these essays reveal Vaughan Williams the composer as much as anything I can think of short of the music itself.  A useful and invigorating few pages.	2005-04-12
US	51114497	R3RRAZH88CV5Z	1555534724	433958052	Vaughan Williams	Books	5	15	15	N	N	true to oneself	In one of his last utterances, shortly before his death, Vaughan Williams said: \\"Modernism and conservatism are irrelevant.  What matters it to be true to oneself.\\"  Simon Heffer's accomplished 150page biography of Vaughan Williams ably proves the verity of the great composer's personal creed with distinctive prose that luckily also includes a skilled overview (and some cherished details) of his musical works.<br /><br />Heffer secures the essential threads between VW's family (his father, at his son's birth, was the Vicar of Down Ampney and his mother was a Wedgewood, and neice of Charles Darwin) and his lifelong output of quintessentially English music.  The author wisely allows this bucolic picture of gentle privilege to continuously and subtly inform the dialogue of Vaughan Williams' life and work, gradually creating a full look on firm ground of a thoroughly cosmopolitan composer.<br /><br />The discussions of VW's compositions are exceptionally competent and always evocative. Heffer' reach is impressive - from VW's undramatic beginnings as a composer, his constant affection for and lavish attention to the English hymn tune, his musical study with Ravel and its effect on his work, through to the daring influence of blues and jazz found in his symphonies, notably the use of vibraphones that inform the beguiling Eighth.<br /><br />This book is a great deal like VW's music itself - profound and gentle, inspiring and intimate.  Recommended over other more lengthy biographies of VW,  length not always equalling depth of treatment in these matters.  In this important little book, the two aspects combine in perfect conformity to the living testament that is VW's music itself.  This book is a full, revealing look at a composer who spent his creative life conjuring manifold beauty and nurturing his unique gifts with the uncommon genius of steady, humane purpose.  The appendix of select discography with incisive commentary is also useful especially for those not that familiar with VW's music.	2005-04-12
US	51114497	R2AKOITRNG6W3Y	0375410821	493892353	Shostakovich and Stalin: The Extraordinary Relationship Between the Great Composer and the Brutal Dictator	Books	4	20	21	N	N	to the heart of things	This book is as much a penetrating portrait of Stalin's Russia as it is a fierce look at surviving as an artist in Stalin's hands.  Apart from the rich legacy of his music, Shostakovich is a fine example precisely because he survived.  Those of us who find Volkov's 'Testimony' a harrowing, revealing book will dive into these pages with gusto and fly through to the end. Those who suspect 'Testimony' to be a fraud might not bother with this book, and that's too bad because it provides a genuine fleshing out of Stalin and his closest henchmen (Zhdanov, especially, is afforded thorough treatment), some beautiful pages on Shostakovich's inner life, and not a few engaging views of a number of other important artists who lived and worked in a crucible of terror day after day.  Volkov courteously dispenses with the ridiculous \\"holy fool\\" controversy in his prologue.  The author is strongest when he composes life from inside the experience of survival in Soviet Russia.  It's one thing to admire Shostakovich's genius, quite another to reach the underpinnings of a man who was more a gentleman fixed on physical (and therefore emotional and artistic) survival than he was a musical prophet.  At that point, we're experiencing something well beyond biography.  That is Volkov's unique gift.  The focus is indeed Shostakovich, but the lessons reach farther.  There are some fine photographs included - pen and inks of Akhmatova and Pasternak by Annenkov, the spiky, not often seen 1933 portrait of Shostakovich by Akimov, and an unforgettable photograph of a very young Shostakovich looking directly and defiantly at the camera, in which he seems to foretell all the pain and glory to come.  If you're looking for a searing rehearsal of the meaning of freedom, I suggest this book.	2005-04-05
US	51114497	RPPQPTST2IUU5	1555535178	340405034	Sergei Prokofiev: A Biography	Books	4	19	19	N	N	popular biography that brings rewards	Robinson's is a useful popular biography of Prokofiev that is better researched and better written than any other English language bio of the great composer.  Equal measure is given to Prokofiev's time in the West, and to his life after returning to Russia. There's much that's interesting here - a persistent exploration of Prokofiev's quixotic relationship with Diaghilev, generous delving into the composer's personal life, including especially some revealing passages on the almost uncharacteristic affection Prokofiev lavished on his children, and a resonant view of his work habits.  Prokofiev's career disappointments were many, some even tragic, and the author doesnt beat around the bush, but the admirable thread of fierce devotion maintained by Prokofiev toward his own unquenchable musical purpose is thoughtfully argued by Robinson throughout the book, indeed it's one its strengths.  The author even notes details of some of Prokofiev's foppish Parisian clothing that helped start him off on the wrong foot on his return to Russia.  There are a number of subtle moments like that where one can discern the winning hand of a committed biographer.  The importance of Prokofiev's canon of works is denied a hearing for the most part, but the book suffers little for that.  The useful appendices include a chronology and a catalogue (by genre) of the composer's works, in addition to a healthy bibliography.  I recommend this book for anyone just taking up the subject of Prokofiev.  Listening again to the seventh Piano Sonata would perhaps serve more succinctly for the already initiated.	2005-04-05
US	51114497	R2OQGUXSOVNLRW	0195174402	176003419	Wondrous Strange: The Life and Art of Glenn Gould	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	the mysteries of a perfect art	This unstoppably heartrending biography of Canadian pianist Glenn Gould unveils the mysteries of a perfect art more cogently and beautifully than has any other artist's biography I've ever come across.  Kevin Bazzana has opened up Gould's eccentricities and placed them where finally they must sleep - merely deep in the natural whole of one of the inescapable musicians of the 20th century.  Those lucky enough to know the meaning of the art of Glenn Gould will always be grateful for that achievement.    This is a tremendous book.  The moments when Bazzana's utterly secure love for Gould's art shines through are the most extraordinary aspect of a completely worthy biography.  With deep and glistening writing Bazzana evokes every aspect of looking-at-Gould with the same sound character found in Gould's playing - it's an amazing experience!  This is biographical literature extensive and schooled, and even wise; reading is like gliding on glass, so perfect is the author's determination, and Gould lives on every page. What could be better?    Was ever a pianist's art more wonderful?  Gould's playing is always extraordinary by every standard, and beyond. And not only the playing, of course; his mind, his understanding of music, his humor - these form the scaffolding of a remarkable artistic vision.  For all his reclusion, his is the most giving human art, reaching to infinity.  Art of the gods obtains dimensions the proof of which can be heard in everything he played.  It's a consuming art, yet so freeing.  The wondrous thing about it is how Gould kept so much of himself even as he spent lavishly on Bach and Byrd and Schoenberg.  Music never overtook Gould - that task inevitably fell to Gould himself.      By literature of this kind, the sadness that still lingers around Gould's death seems entirely transformed.  This is a great book that ends too quickly and lingers too pervasively.  Afford yourself the wealth.	2005-04-05
US	51114497	R2FC2FRSZWYXWS	0895263084	993240390	The Autobiography of Joan Sutherland: A Prima Donna's Progress	Books	4	0	0	N	N	still thirsty after all these words	I agree with everything said so well in the previous review.  Unfortunately for those of us who long for insight and instead are given a travel diary - often in verbatim transposition, I fear - a real thirst after finishing the book is not uncommon.  I agree with Mr Bernabo that an editor in hiding cries out at times wishing to rescue us from another plane trip and another successful performance, but I must say Caballe's biography (seemingly often lauded) suffers a hardly less dismal fate than does Prima Donna's Progress in that regard, and claims not one but two biographers and who knows how many editors along the way.  Perhaps Sutherland truly has no inclination to write about her art.  However unwished for, such a thing is not outside the conceivable.  It was once remarked that Sutherland would have preferred puttering in her garden to singing on the operatic stage for most of her life, and indeed a certain 'happy' aura surrounds her art that could indicate perhaps such might be the case.<br /><br />It matters not. Four stars for Sutherland in her own words, for richer or poorer. The wickedly original title, the cover photo perfect, and one is able, at least, to spend a few hours with an artist whose immaculate contribution will stand and conquer for all time.  Let that be enough. Read it, you'll see.	2005-04-05
US	51114497	RPJ42U6KMHNRB	078670778X	631748219	Cardinal Richelieu: And the Making of France	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a bit of everything brings a little something	I agree with another reviewer that a lot of unnecessary wandering in the wilderness makes this book a tiring effort to enjoy, but some of the reviews seem to miss utterly the author's intense perspective which is nothing less than a fervent glance at Richelieu unscourged.  Levi's historical take is often speculative, or is it?  Perhaps it's more an unsolicited testament of things from the vantage point of those whom many historians have decided, in their churning quest to install an egalitarian privilege, are easily brushed aside, their subject's particular paradigm having been in their view eclipsed. <br /> <br />Richelieu himself, master of detail, would likely find himself more readily in Levi's book than in most textbooks and any number of insufficient biographies.  You'll need a comprehensive understanding of the royal houses of Europe and the intricate volleying and snuggling between them to make sense of quite a bit of this book.  Nor will you find a wholesale dismissal of the Roman Church's temporal politics here, and rightly so.  This, after all, is history, not a fairyland for the democracy besotted.  Even an Irish Times review on the back of the book can't help referring to \\"an allegedly devout mystery...\\"  I suspect there are already too many allegedly brave biographies whose principle recommendation is a tawdry bias. <br /> <br />Levi's book gives an unindicted account of the Cardinal and his world.  I'm grateful for that, despite the book's onerous flaws - sometimes incoherent writing, an at times merciless academic posture, and some unnecessary repetition.  Four solid stars, but then, I'm a stickler for the real thing.	2005-04-05
US	51114497	R1TBZAWKBWHCOD	0312322216	938315130	Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader: North Korea and the Kim Dynasty	Books	4	16	16	N	N	in-depth scholarship of great fairness	This is a wrenching book of profoundly honest and searching scholarship unmatched in published literature about North Korea.  Bradley Martin's reporter background serves him well throughout - there is not one page in over 800+ pages that derives from a dogmatic bias; I believe he has the intelligence to realize that a 'just the facts, ma'am' style is clearly the most effective means of revealing the inner truth about the Kim dynasty and the situation in North Korea.  Martin's extensive travels in North Korea serve him well in reaching beyond a framework of historical fact to form a vital and unique aspect of the book's success.  The opening third of the book devoted to the rise to power of Kim Il-Sung is noticeable in its strict fairness with the facts, an admirable restraint indeed, and the book gets off to a good start because of it.    The following chapters on Kim Jong-Il are equally revealing of those aspects of North Korea that presently concern the rest of the world.  Martin goes out of his way to extend to Kim Jong-Il a full treatment of his not inconsiderable theatrical and musical gifts - something many writers would not and do not do - and the terror of the Stalinesque munchkin's madness is made all the more compelling for it.      I do think the book is overly lengthy.  Reaching the sixth or so multi-page transcript of interviews with North Korean defectors I felt enough was enough.  Nothing uniquely viable is being presented by that time, and while one can respect whatever reasons Martin had for such extensive interview minutiae, it becomes somewhat wearying.  That is, however, a very minor complaint against a many faceted, enthralling, even exhilarating portrait of a sad and dangerous country.  This is the book to read on North Korea.  Enthusiastically recommended on all counts.	2005-04-04
US	51114497	R2HE413KHAZCBF	0801852900	506287625	Veiled Threats: The Logic of Popular Catholicism in Italy	Books	3	2	5	N	N	an interesting read for scoffers	I once had a philosophy professor who referred to sociology as \\"queen of the pseudo sciences\\".  There is a lot of information in this book.  A number of chapters, especially the two on the cult of the dead and a shorter chapter called \\"Preaching To Their Eyes\\", practically throb with facts and charts and statistics. There are sensational (some are interesting) photographs of the street Catholicism which the author hopes will shed light.  There is some theorizing, but that's kept to a minimum - thankfully, probably.  I would have thought the idea of a sociologist exploring a subject like popular Catholicism in Italy might be foredoomed in terms of achieving an understanding that raises interesting questions and discovers interesting answers about an interesting subject, and I was right.  The book reads like a text book, and it's snide.  Little things peppered here and there are what that snideness is made of.  Certainly anti-religious, although nothing overtly rude, but Veiled Threats is the take of a scientist of sorts on ancient phenomena of spirituality, and I yawned through most of it.  A book giving us the 'voices' of the villagers and believers and their priests - those whom science has discarded as being uninterrupted by the so-called modern world - would be more interesting.  It's a believability factor, I think.  2 stars for the book, another for the hyper-indigenous photos.	2005-04-03
US	51114497	R20FKOH0BCIOG7	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	4	14	17	N	N	riveting intelligence, inchoate understanding	I became interested in this book after listening to the author speak on BookTV, finding in his remarks and demeanor an important antidote to the jingoistic proselytizing that apparently passes for religious thought in America these days.  Harris is a natural writer and an important thinker, there's no mistaking that.  There is no fumbling in the pages of this book, no cheap shots, a mesmerizing intellectual sincerity and a passel of original ideas the author fuses into an engaging whole in clean, clear prose.  His thoroughgoing dissection of the violent fundament inherent in the creeds of Islam and Christianity, in particular, never wavers from his central theme - these religions' requirement of belief based on insufficient evidence.  So far, so good, I would say, though it is interesting that Harris' forte being philosophy, not science strictly speaking, would seem to indicate a possibility that the idea of 'evidence' might be made more pliant and less exclusive than the author allows in this book.   <br /> <br />Harris' arguments from a socio-political perspective are well reasoned and welcomed. No right thinking person wants a Tom Delay account of things passing for either religion or politics.  An unfortunate aspect of Harris' assertions is an unrelenting insistence on defining faith strictly as faith IN - creed, gospel, scripture, tradition - and ignoring the more fluid and indeed more exacting meaning of faith; its accepted meaning, yes, but also what it might be, what it can be.  This seems to me a more important idea to examine, in contradistinction to merely assuming a kind of atheism - an idea with no escape since it instantly takes up arms against the very thing it claims not to exist.  The book's title and subtitle would still serve well even if one were to find a larger canvas inside its pages.   <br /> <br />My other criticism of the book is its inescapable negligence in providing a comparable dissection of Zionism.  Harris himself makes the apt pointthat most if not all of the isms in the world are but religion substitutes - communism, consumerism, environmentalism, etc.  Zionism, with its history of racism and violence, does not occasion an extensive inclusion in his cogent analyses of the need for an end of faith?  Despite a few sprinkled sentences devoted to castigating the God of Israel in relation to his main theses, I ended the book feeling as if a chapter had been overtly left out.   <br /> <br />These criticisms notwithstanding, I recommend the book without hesitation.  Sam Harris has opened important new ways of looking at the interaction of religion and societies.  One must be grateful for this, especially in a society virtually uprooted at present by nefarious politics of intimidation and by an ever-morphing array of cultic religious sects the standards of which make mediaeval machinations seem mere closeted fantasies, not to mention the flagrant fusing of the two at the highest reaches of civil government - a state we are precariously living through even as I write this.	2005-04-02
US	51114497	R2INNY1JEYV3VP	0385510489	537799736	Sermons of a Buddhist Abbot: A Classic of American Buddhism	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What a sermon can be	In a brief and savory 200 pages, Buddhist master Soyen Shaku (1856-1919), who would become chief abbot of both Engakuji and Kenchoji monasteries, presents seventeen peerless examples of what a sermon can be, tackling immortality, faith, ethics, the worldly and the transcendent, sacrifice, and ignorance and enlightenment among other subjects.  These concise, fulfilling essays were given in 1905-1906 during the Zen monk's visit to America.  The addresses that comprise this compendium mark the initial phase of the introduction of Buddhism on the popular level to the United States, delivered as Shaku crossed the continent - literally and symbolically - from west to east, and translated during that sojourn by D.T. Suzuki, who edited the sermons for publication and contributes a preface for the present edition.  Every chapter, every page is illumined by the clearest thinking and the calmest, and therefore most convincing, conviction.  In an age when religious understanding is degraded and undermined by absurd public spectacle, this collection of sermons serves as a trenchant witness to the invigorating silence of belief, while indeed providing a heady exposition of Buddhist thought and principles.  This edition fortunately includes two addresses by Shaku on the Buddhist view of war stressing, as do the semons, the Buddhist perspective on personal responsibility. Exceptionally enlightening is an included reprint of a letter written by Shaku in 1896 to Dr. John Barrows, entitled here 'Reply To A Christian Critic'.  One can't help believing that the pseudo-religionists whose violent heads and hearts have once again risen to fever pitch in America recently over a human being's rights to live and to die would be served far better by reading this Zen monk's quiet and reasoned rebuke than by the corporate media whores who feed them false importance to the detriment of us all.  Highest recommendation.	2005-04-02
US	51114497	R3KGK7RX4EIX0J	0375411879	883501671	A Passionate Pilgrim: A Biography of Bishop James A. Pike	Books	5	12	15	N	N	As clear as day	This is the biography of Pike that we've been waiting for.  Robertson's achievment is awesome and this book is marvelous. Pike's many difficulties -alcoholism, ambition, theological posturing, difficulties in his family, with his women- are finally choreographed into the submissive background where they belong, as the three-dimensional Pike emerges broken and whole - a man addicted to action.  Believing, warring, loving, campaigning, preaching, living and dying - Pike sat astride the rhythm of unrelenting action, for good or ill.  Those who look to the inconsistencies in James Pike to find the living parts are looking too far. His great personal truth was in his every action- wild and true, beautiful, violent. Passionate Pilgrim brings it all before us.  David Robertson's intelligence arrives with a stash of new ideas and insights, a scathing sympathy for his subject, and the ear of a real writer.  Anyone interested in Pike's story will be mesmerized by this book that demonstrates better than any other I can think of the ecstatic dimensions of biography that can be achieved by perfect prose.	2005-04-01
US	51114497	R2832OR51DCI9S	0935952861	443953575	The Mouth of the Lion: Bishop Antonio de Castro Mayer & the Last Catholic Diocese	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	a very telling book	This excellent book on the life story of Bishop de Castro Mayer is as well the telling of the woeful catastrophe of the Roman Catholic Church throughout the last forty years.  The prelate who stood with Archbishop Lefebvre at Econe to consecrate four new bishops is shown here as Lefebvre's intellectual and spiritual equal - high attainment indeed.  The lives of these two men with differing backgrounds, differing temperaments and rich with differing circumstances, in the end reveal the same inescapably onerous story of the Church that devoured itself, cannabalising its various parts in a record spate of only ten years of incomprehensible flight from reality, leaving in its rapacious wake a skeletal heap of lies and spiritual betrayal.  Bishop de Castro Mayer's formal association with Lefebvre takes up but a small part of the story, yet the deathly shadow of the root cause of their eventual union hovers over every page.  While aspects of the book tend faintly toward hagiography, the author for the most part keeps his attention in check, tracing the early life and especially the ordinary diocesan life of Campos, revealing de Castro Mayer's foresight of what was to come in the wake of Rome's apostasy, and the means by which he prepared the people under his spiritual care for it.  It's a cautionary tale told perhaps too late to awaken the Catholic world, but important nonetheless for revealing the wisdom of men who refused the treachery of the Roman authorities at every turn.  The writing style of the author is banal but sufficiently effective to nourish and maintain interest through to the end.  It is, ultimately, a quiet book about simple things, and simple things and quiet turns have a way of entering and illuminating those mysteries which are often obscured by presumptuous flourishes and philosophies.	2005-04-01
US	51114497	R3HMX7X8R0YE09	0404170048	423588716	The Letters of Saint Bernard of Clairaux (English and Latin Edition)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	lets you in..	In Letter no.89, Bernard writes to his friend, William of St Thierry, &quot;as I drew myself in my letter to you, so I really am..&quot;  That sweet admission characterizes this book.  An excellent translation that really LISTENS to Bernard's voice in its 560+ pages.  A short essential  Introduction by Beverly Mayne Kienzle helps guide the reader toward aspects of interest surrounding Bernard in the letters -- events in Cistercian history, admonitions to his monks, letters on the liturgy,etc. -- and discusses the place held by private letters in monastic literature.  The translation lets Bernard live, and live he does!  The 'oracle of Christendom' shows himself the most human of humanists, passionate and nearly wild, founding seventy monasteries, securing the recognition of Innocent II, creating the Kinghts Templar, and pouring his preaching to kindle the fire for a second crusade.  This book's a worthwhile place to start tracking mediaeval history, by tracking a colossus.  Spiffy chronology, bibliography, and table of letters, recipients &amp; dates makes the book easy to access for specific results.  The last of the Fathers of the Church, Bernard's real light lies just under the pages, and that's tough for a translator; here's a translation that understands and discloses that essence.  As welcomed and vital a book as Gilson's 'Mystical Theology of St Bernard.'	2002-12-08
US	51114497	R1GNOX4SC4X9JD	188790400X	390552509	Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future	Books	2	10	26	N	N	the man who fell too far..	Fr Seraphim Rose has an intriguing history. As a gifted young seeker he imbibed enough Buddhism to aptly consider Alan Watts a purveyor of \\"armchair Buddhism,\\" moved on to Orthodoxy & holy orders, then with one other monk founded a desolate skete above Redding, California, and became an influential voice in RCOR Orthodoxy.  Of the three books of his I've read, this is the most radical and least coherent.  Once started his books are hard to put down, but along the way you cant help thinking you really should.  Because all along the watchtower, Fr Seraphim is weeping.. he says Orthodoxy is the only religion of the future, and he gives his reasons, but his worldview, &the philosophic elements of his argument are full of a confusion of their own: God as Smiter/Saviour, Man as wretch and ancient target of God's love, all the consuming oldies.  Fr Rose works hard to prove redemption, but ends merely by sealing all the doors and windows, as if to end the paradox.  The religion that has winged him is ancient and rigorous, he drinks its literal beauty and misses its spiritual Origin, and therefore preaches a tired apocalypse.  It's been said Orthodoxy is slowly suffocating on a beauty that will never die..  Rose unfortunately submits a servicable intellect to chokehold ideas that read and feel like an underground missive, so secret and devastating is the truth.  The desolation -but not the hope!- of the catacombs courses this book like a bad wind, &counseling like this only feeds the literalists' refusal to lift their heads.  Rose transgresses truthfulness by weighing ideas already eclipsed.  Dont waste your time. His `Little Russian Philokalia' is a better book, but the author remains a man who fell too far.	2002-12-01
US	51114497	RBBE4UPNFGLT6	0571175252	158284438	003: The Philokalia: The Complete Text (Vol. 3): Compiled by St. Nikodimos of the Holy Mountain and St. Makarios of Corinth	Books	5	22	28	N	N	love of the beautiful	The Philokalia is the supreme ascetical text of two thousand years of Christian history.  The Greek title means love of the beautiful, the exalted, the good. Its subject is an interpretation of life in the Divine Christ. St Philotheos' 'Forty Texts on Watchfulness' especially, and Theophanis the Monk's 'Ladder of Divine Graces' (both in vol. 3) sing like a burning bush!  This is ancient Christianity, supple and free. It's interesting that Peter of Damaskos, in the pivotal texts on the Eight Stages of Contemplation, seems to borrow the language, the gestures, even, of Buddhist thought, Zen in particular.  John of the Cross shook of a kindred understanding of emptiness, but Desert spirituality, the Greek Fathers are something else again, something more striking, more pungent than even the Discalced mystic.  The Philokalia's entire creed is 'know thyself.'  Constantly the text presents both a belief system and a system of ascetic philosophy and practice that curse the whimpering centuries as they pass now. The disciple's world isn't pretty, and these men from the centuries of the early Church after the Declaration of Constantine preach a honeyed death in order to live, as do the Psalms. These priests and hermits roamed Egypt and Palestine living the lessons and injunctions, and the bliss even as they were composing the Philokalia.  The Greek texts first translated into Slavonic became grafted to Russian spirituality, and are the richer for that; the real treasure of the Philokalia reveals itself disinterestedly to any reader who behind the primitive gestures of antique exegesis sees only That Which Is, and thereof understands himself whole, like Gregory of Sinai, Callistus and Ignatius.  The Philokalia is unbuttered Christianity you won't find in churches.  Therefore, highest recommendation to you of right intention.	2002-11-27
US	51114497	R10695PDSX2VK1	0156343207	354157030	Galina: A Russian Story	Books	5	15	17	N	N	a fierceness requited...	Vishnevskaya's reputation for forthrightness AND the sub-title she chooses here --A Russian Story-- indicate strong intentions for this book. Not 'MY Russian Story', but 'A Russian Story', as she tells an epic Russian story, honoring with a severe truth the Russia of sorrows of which her story forms a unique part. This is no prima donna's idle tableau of a curtained career.  Vishnevskaya's art comes of suffering, & she doesn't head down that road.  She divulges her art generously, but her attitude never self serves.  Her aim is always higher - she's interested to say not only what HAPPENED in Soviet life, but what WAS.  and WHO!--- Vishnevskaya regularly excoriates with galvinizing abandon the soviet lackeys with whom she had to deal! She names names and motives, because it's the damned truth!  The West in general and artists in particular owe a huge debt to Rostropovich and Vishnevskaya for the willing sacrifice of themselves in exile for the simple truth.  Rostropovich garners the commentary in the West with the cello & conducting, but Galina is the heart of genius, and THAT seems the telling component in this book.  Her depiction of Solzhenitsyn is heartrending, and stands as the book's axis; everything leads to it, and derives from it.  Her friendship with Shostakovich, her brilliant feelings toward him-- an almost daughterly reverence informed by the highest artistic aesthetic. It's also through the part Shostakovich played in her life that we meet a musically learned Galina as well. She was a musician FIRST, singer second. How rare and wonderful - no wonder Slava fell in love!  Galina dances with the shadows of Shostakovich throughout, & it's one of the book's endearing aspects.  There are wonderful stories too of Britten and his music, & a surprisingly frank exposition of Furtseva, soviet Minister of Culture, whose enigmatic machinations both helped and ill-served Galina more than once.  Vishnevskaya can sing AND write!  The book ends when you don't want it to, leaving Russia... it's ultimately a love story -- Galina and Russia.  Maybe she'll yet write her American story.	2002-11-24
US	51114497	R17863PJH081A2	0452251532	624234430	Saint Genet - Actor and Martyr	Books	5	24	36	N	N	beauty takes place..	'Grandly conceived and executed' .... 'Magnificent'.... 'Nothing less than masterly' ... critical tributes offered Sartre's Saint Genet that end as mere words. Saint Genet is an unearthly book wrought with the passion of a gospel narrative, explicit and wrenching. It is, finally, an entire act of redemption. The language is apocryphal and never operatic, epic in delivery, even greater than it seems; page upon page of an exceeding pure, and  never vulgarly rich, damask brocade!   I'll not critique Sartre's thought --it's privilege enough to be presented it!-- but this seminal work is a miraculous construct of human will and unbearable genius that will live forever, a complex and magisterial book ranking among the great achievments of modern literature because of its erudition, humanity, and fierce literary reach.  There is not a page that doesn't honor wisdom, nor is there a single idle component.  It is indisputably Sartre's crowning achievment as a genius, and as a man.  The evocative humanity of two literary giants of the 20th century plays like a dance, the captured aesthetic of which Sartre reveals; everything is taken to the temple of Genet, everything explained, everything mortified, slain and remade.  Reading this book is a revealing experience; be willing to be stolen. Theft happens in broad daylight, perpetrators already known.. My favorite chapter  is 'Cain,' in which Sartre makes his most profound arguments about Genet as Other, Genet as the living inverse Liturgy, and presents a stupefying image of his subject: 'Everything is possessed, worked, occupied, from the sky to the subsoil...'   Intimidating in its greatness.	2002-11-22
US	51114497	RQVMZOQ1CVAAQ	0870610791	667154638	The Life and Revelations of St. Gertrude	Books	4	3	6	N	N	an especial art..	The fabled set of mystical narratives composed by St Gertrude, and the addenda committed by her nuns forming the second half of the book, together comprise one of the crown jewels of mediaeval mystical literature.  The relationship between Gertrude and her sister St Mechtilde becomes one of the pillars of the book, and keeps watchful witness, proving itself central in understanding Gertrude's mysticism.  A genuine garnering of the goods Gertrude offers, however, seems imperiled, since only the literalists are any longer interested in publishing these works, though not all scholars lost contact with them over years of de-listing.  Interesting that those who read Gertrude insubstantially WANT to read her thoroughly, while those able to fathom Gertrude's genuine mysticism have fallen prey to mere academy mind, without a true scholar's heart for the blood and bone of a saint's mystical art!  Gertrude's is an especial art: laden and drenched and bottomless and cold and lavish and you're not permitted a second's respite from all of that, but still she   prevails.  A loving heart prevails - and some ineffable philosophy - and a sumptuous rendering of another world...  It's a marvelous accounting of things mystical, however you read it, but without disinterested teachers, the subtle light coursing through Gertrude's temple runs risk of disappearing under less subtle shadows.	2002-11-21
US	51114497	R204BKVWOLH6J8	0811201007	282008957	Selected Poems of Thomas Merton (New directions paperbooks)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	..the curving grasses and their daughters..	I've loved this book for more than 30 years. It's not that Merton's an extraordinary poet-- he isn't. He makes beautiful poems, not extraordinary ones; but even a rascal can admire the fortifying intelligence that makes everything Merton writes important.  It's not even the customary New Directions production-- immaculate and free, sure and devoted, as always.  An American treasure this publishing company is!  Included is a devoted, even loving, appreciation of Merton's poems by poet Mark van Doren (I dont know if it's found in the Collected Poems).  Love for Selected Poems endures because it's from his poems that Merton incontestably emerges as a soul in the form of art.  His faith is his art.  Nothing's stronger-- not criticism, inscrutable public thirst, Cistercian censors..  There are intense and nearly infinite layers to Merton's prose.  The poems are naked.  He knew they must be and he allowed them to be naked. &quot;..All the curtains are arranged/Not for hiding but for seeing out..&quot;  The poems are Merton's home.  It's to his poems that he'll take a homely idea and make it strong, and take a unmonked sentiment and give it shelter. Merton's humanity NEVER has to fetch a witness in his poems.  He stands there willing, even unpolished in his glaring humanity at times, drawing as pure hearted a breath as a man ever drew, and prayer in the form of poems you could diagram a life by.  Don't make the mistake of passing this book by.	2002-11-20
US	51114497	R1TFT38ULC7WR6	0345358961	992783454	The Journals of John Cheever	Books	5	22	24	N	N	throughways and bridges..	Cheever says \\"I am fifty-four, but I still think myself too young...to suffer nightmares about throughways and bridges.\\"  Daily peril is ever close at hand in the self-abusive pain and duty of the observed life of a 20th century master of English prose. The only peril in reading this book is a broken heart.  I would stand anywhere and say there are paragraphs in these journals that rival in beauty and perfection any other in English literature you may produce.  Cheever can't help it; this kind of genius is inevitable.  What does it matter that misery formed a life?  The pages written in Italy in the late '50s particularly, nurse a kind of transparent abiding of deep misery - seeking, arranging, soldiering it, all the while writing, fortunately. However alcohol and interior splits may have crippled aspects of Cheever's career, nothing but glory shadows his paragraphs of light!  The book is more like an autobiographical duel in the form of a novel, Cheever's self-reaching so raw, and so moving his conclusions.  Barely able to escape the intense life of the mind, Cheever's art threatens confessional literature by refusing to confess. He keeps his writer's mind, and makes the rest serve.  As a result, the book full of a beauty that will never disappear.  It's a worthwhile idea to get a copy just to read the paragraph written in 1981, after taking the dogs walking deep into the rainy woods, returning & listening to Bach's Concerto for Two Violins on headphones, while the wet and muddy dogs dry on the porch.  It's an amazing book by a peerless writer.	2002-11-17
US	51114497	R2634CS13R1O7F	0312119038	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	Armstrong's painstaking class act..	A distinctive memoir of life-altering decisions is made utterly interesting by the author's painstaking class act as a writer.  All the verve and clear insights of 'A History of God' are here under a more intimate patina.  Karen Armstrong's patient English temperament can almost drive you to distraction as she seeks the calling God, but reward for your own patience is found on nearly every page.  Surprising is Armstrong's regularly vivid self-criticism, and it's interesting she possesses a post-Christian understanding true enough to keep her at all times from recrimination, toward both the Church and her own decisions.  It's a mark of post-cloister spiritual maturity that colors the whole book &amp; makes it a satisfying read on many levels.  Armstrong's intelligent economy of thought and language combine with sharp insight and simple English forthrightness to make a winner.  You wont be disappointed with Narrow Gate.	2002-11-17
US	51114497	R1OLEJY24VX70T	0300060769	200041965	The Stripping of the Altars: Traditional Religion in England, 1400-1580	Books	4	123	131	N	N	weep, weep, o Walsingham...	Eamon Duffy is hell-bent to demonstrate the meaning and legitimacy of traditional English piety, and succeeds by and large with smart scholarship, winningly original ideas, and fret-free, up-tempo prose.  The book wears well a mediaevalist scholar's sympathetic penchant for the full color world of his subject; you have no trouble entering Duffy's exotic world.  He knocks down the calumny of 'superstition' by REVEALING it with teaching.  The Henrician religious revolution is exactingly covered, but forget your mild English sentiments here; the author means to prove his point and does relentlessly.  England's masses did NOT rise up and demand what the King unfortunately demanded!  Some of the local evidence unearthed by Duffy is among the most compelling in providing armament for his argument that Roman piety remained the daily staple of the common Englishman even as revolution was imposed by royal will.  The last section --The Attack on Traditional Religion--  (including a final segment on Elizabeth I) is the best in the book- arguments are focused in, &amp; the prose is clean and responsive. The book is a huge achievment, even at 650+ pages! A fetching bibliography provides extensive evidence of the openness of Duffy's scholarship, and is fascinating marginalia in its own right.  Photo of the vandalised bas relief of the mass Sacrifice on the cover is completely moving.  No faint-hearted history allowed.	2002-11-14
US	51114497	R2T5F4Y44XCUUM	0879100214	478348875	Testimony: The Memoirs of Dmitri Shostakovich	Books	5	16	26	N	N	no more controversy...	He WAS a yurodivye - a divine and crazy fox!  & there ISNT a growing body of opinion that Testimony is a fraud or hoax!  On the contrary, the rare film evidence of Shostakovich alive, to see him move and speak, and HIS MUSIC ITSELF easily vouch for the provenance of this harrowing book -- which is, nothing less than the epic inner life of a colossus, one of the great composer beings of any age.  Testimony (AND the film based on it, by the way!) is as rich a self-revelation as you'll EVER encounter.  End the controversies for yourself and READ IT.  The self-drawn Man revealed-- a person of humor and fears, an excruciating man of magisterial gifts not plumbed even today, and a man of Humility.  That last is important to say, because it stands and speaks winningly against the calumny which has been rehearsed like a curse over this book.  Not only is Shostakovich's voice pure and penetrating, it resonates in tone and content with Vishnevskaya's intimate portrait of the man who wrote Katerina for her.  And Ben Britten's personal notes are still another source of affirmation.  But dont waste your time in shadows... The second movement of the First Piano Concerto is proof of this book. The Fourteenth Symphony is proof. The 15th Quartet, the ballet suites, the 3rd movement (Eternal Memory) of the 11th Symphony.... THIS is what you hear when you read Testimony.  It's one of the enduring books of a lifetime, a compendium of sorrow read, in the end, only as joy. The lesson in humanity given by Shostakovich in the pages of this book HAS no price.  five spiky stars times a hundred!	2002-11-13
US	51114497	RN5U4WQDM5SXB	081120104X	619571111	Zen and the Birds of Appetite	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	a soul in the form of art...	Merton quotes D.T. Suzuki: &quot;Zen always aims at grasping the central fact of life, which can never be brought to the dissecting table of the intellect&quot;;  and  &quot;Zen must be seized with bare hands, with no gloves on.&quot;  No wonder Merton's  reverence for Zen, for these are his own ideas of Christian monasticism.  With his illuminating mind in full stride, and his interventions keen as crystal, if he went no deeper than to make an apparent synthesis, it would be enough.  But Merton strives for farther fields, finds and feeds them, and not surprisingly leaves them flourishing.  He leaps wholly into a personal embodiment of Zen and its spiritual complexities, and ends restoring his own monastic experience.  The essay 'Zen in Japanese Art' pays loving homage to the classic spirit of Daisetz Suzuki's seminal 'Zen and Japanese Culture', but lives and breathes on its own.  In its simple three and a half pages, Merton weaves the aesthetic ideas of Zen philosopher Kitaro Nishida, makes the case that Zen and Zen art are the exact opposite of Sartre's 'pessimistic nihilism,' and in a single amazing paragraph toward the end, beautifully finds in the formal &quot;tea ceremony&quot; a respect and harmony consistent with the simplicity of twelfth-century Cistercian architecture at Fontenay or Le Thoronet.  But no idle intellectual excursions invade here; again and again Merton draws everything back to the Christ sought in the apophatic tradition with a faithfulness that exhudes an almost excruciating surfeit of spiritual understanding.  Finding St Gregory's &quot;No one gets so much of God as the man who is thoroughly dead&quot;  'lying next' to Bunan Zenji's &quot;While alive, be dead, thoroughly dead-- All is good then, whatever you may do&quot;, Merton turns a light on centuries of Christian ascetic experience with one true, bold stroke.  Birds of Appetite is strewn with page after page not of ideas only, but wisdom.  He responds to D.T. Suzuki's exquisite essay'Innocence and Knowledge' (included in the book) with 'The Recovery of Paradise', arguing that the Desert Fathers sought the emptiness and innocence of Adam and Eve in Eden, invoking along the way John of the Cross, and making one of Dostoevsky's &quot;saints,&quot; the Staretz Zosima, serve as antagonist throughout the essay.  Merton notes &quot;there is a dimension where the bottom drops out of the world of factuality and of the ordinary,&quot; an observation no doubt honed in the solitude of the hermitage, up the mountain above Gethsemane Abbey.  He adds, &quot;it might be good to open our eyes and see.&quot;  I'm recommending a huge little book, meticulously published by New Directions with its customary attentiveness to shadow and light, inside and out.  See for yourself.	2002-11-11
US	51114497	R3E6A228VNIONJ	0374512817	608597554	The Silent Life	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	intense merton..	Merton is among those writers who profoundly affirm Wallace Stevens' fixation on 'the determining presence of the personality of the artist', speaking of the component values of any literary work.  Published in 1956, 'The Silent Life' discloses a still undistracted Merton, brilliant and pure like a god.  His unseen life as priest and religious, and a personal and abiding inclination for an intense eremitic life (his ever seeking the hermitage was a desire never really requited for him), color the emotion of his discourse here.  It burns like the prose of 'Sign of Jonas' and 'Waters of Siloe'.  It's a later, wiser Merton opened and deepened that arrests and shows us ourselves, it really is;  but reading this book you're made to wonder if Thomas Merton was ever again so ecstatically fastened to the Ideal of his fantastically converted heart.  Such a language of love to serve the most clement scholarship!  &amp; best thing, it sings with all his determining love and confidence.  Merton always expressed a particular affection for the pure hermits of Camaldoli, and the time he spends lovingly tracing their importance is one of the  best parts of this book.  Thomas Merton changed monasticism both by his devotion and his disaffection.  This book's a good example of his already profound literary gifts, and an even better example of a man's purposeful race toward the God within.	2002-11-07
US	51114497	R1P3W67H9FL35U	0374289174	546029209	Where the Stress Falls	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	'Nothing new except language, the ever found...'	My favorite piece in this book is 'Answers to a Questionnaire'--  vintage Sontag-- thinking, witnessing, and finally enlightening everything she must.  Despite the self-loathing revealed by a number of American reviewers below who show themselves apparently ready to detest integrity itself, the naked truth comes clear and comes clear!  Clear thinking may yet be the last frontier!  A worthy argument for such is surely made in the pages of this book.  It is even for those who are spiteful without cause to discover themselves lurking in the heart of this book, grevious as ignorance is, & wretched as spite becomes in the end.  Listen-- vitriolic political sideswiping is as American as dumplings.  Sontag, characteristically and sympathetically, not only notes its irrevelance, but conjures an antidote called moral patience, so no wonder all the shouts and curses against her!  Making certain their own avenues of self-discovery venture nothing wiser than a hepped up, but sunless, hyper-nationalism wretchedly disguised as patriotism, it's unfortunately not surprising the chorus of disappoval this woman engenders.  Thank goodness Sontag remains preoccupied with her Art!--  a living, teaching, redemptive art burnished, by now, to an holistic glow, as every page of this book bears witness.  What in the world are you talking about??! -- SUSAN SONTAG IS AMERICAN TO THE CORE!  I reckon that aspect of her identity contributes as much as any other of her native gifts to the beauty and usefulness of her art.  Wake up, people!	2002-10-30
US	51114497	R14W9IMCM8HAZ4	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	a THOUSAND stars...	So many people have spoken so well here of the experience of this book, I'm barely chagrined to have nothing new but honest praise for it.  I've lived with, and tried to live, this book for years.  Its pages are the clearest light, &amp; the cleanest water.  It remains unspoiled, evergreen, &amp; always ready to hand you everything whole each time you encounter it.  I remember Shunyru Suzuki in SF, even before Tassajara,  years before I knew anything at all!  I'm embarassed by the few buddhists writing reviews of 'heresy, heresy'... roshi is laughing at their passionate defence, even admiring it!  Better, he'd say, simply look and see.  That way you know that heresy never shines a light, then your attention can bear fruit.  Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind may be the single most inevitable spiritual document of the last century.  Its pages become lighter and more clean to the bone with each passing day.  Read this book and find the REAL way to end war. Find out the REAL peace.  It brings you right up to yourself.  Once read, everything changes. It's like getting REAL eyes.  Recommended with real heart!	2002-10-25
US	51114497	R22J7W78F48OB	0935952136	476132932	Open Letter to Confused Catholics	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Even now..	Lefebvre's 'Open Letter To Confused Catholics' is perhaps his most passionate tract, his most emphatic refusal.  It's impossible to overturn the facts that Monseigneur Lefebvre lays bare.  The Archbishop's diagnostic skills are nearly without peer in the modern Church.  His historic bishop-making antidote is of course what got him into mortal trouble with Rome, although neither many of his public followers went swayed even by the excommunication, nor has his Society become troubled and shriveled.  On the contrary, the Roman authorities continually come calling, even now, searching for a reconciliation. They come because their belly has grown hollow; that fact alone is a living echo of every word in this book. Apart from the incontestable expression of Catholic doctrine it encases, 'Open Letter' is refreshing again and again as Lefebvre's integrist beliefs clearly rebuke the often mindless motoric piety of American traditionalism, with its insipid Americanism ever odious and long ago condemned by Rome.  Lefebvre's passionate defence is born of a European culture that by definition despised democracy, and it is what lends his effort here a particular, ravishing ecstasy, problematic as that may be in the post-Christian age.  In the end, Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre seems hardly to notice.  It is there, in the heart of this man's ineluctable devotion, lies the virtue and vitality of this book. It's a challenging manifesto from a remarkable churchman.	2002-10-23
US	51114497	R2E9Y1UXDC3ALF	1928832369	577224794	Ugly As Sin: Why They Changed Our Churches from Sacred Places to Meeting Spaces and How We Can Change Them Back Again (Forthright Edition)	Books	4	23	32	N	N	Finally!!	The fact that the National Conference of Catholic Bishops is unabashed to publish a propaganda tract entitled 'Environment and Art in Catholic Worship' means that this is an important book.  As if 'Environment' were a kind of committee-induced sacramental poised like one of Stalin's Five-Year-Plans to nourish the souls of the faithful!  Every Catholic with his five senses intact knows but too well the abysmal truth of the facts laid bare in this book.  Michael S Rose is a courageous person, and must be commended for writing a clear and compelling argument.  His facts are impeccable and his reasoning sound.  He makes a praiseworthy, if not always practicable, call to action. It would seem impossible to over-argue that the 'Environment' deformers, the destroyers of churches, merely take their cue from the deformed liturgy in current usage.  The thought of the Roman Mass, that is, the Immemorial Mass, being ritualized in the new Basilica in Mexico City (to mention but one egregious example) can almost bring you to a kind of desperate laughter.  Let's face it- these people have made buildings to MATCH THEIR LITURGY -ugly as sin!- much in the way mediaeval man made Notre Dame, inspired by the ineffable Roman liturgy.  The particular voraciousness of the present merry band of Thieves might pass imply as another indicator of a culture in decline, save for the treachery visited upon millions of Catholics who, while not loving an impossible gothic idea, have only wished not to be threatened by the very walls of the Room where they pray.  This book addresses solidly and courageously those very people, and offers some hope.  Recommended!	2002-10-21
US	51114497	R167EDP1JMBF8D	0553050737	502876176	In God's Name: An Investigation into the Murder of Pope John Paul I	Books	4	17	26	N	N	fascinating!	The Vatican calls it 'fanciful and absurd,' but Yallop's indefatigable journalist style of writing pushes this book along.  Fascinating stuff, and quite probable.  Two interesting areas:  1)the papal plans of John Paul I, and 2)the apparent submission of Wojtyla to the status quo.  Of the first-- no less a thinker than Abbe Georges de Nantes considers Albino Luciani a martyr-saint, a pope whose plans to effect the Fatima-requested Consecration of Russia to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, to re-instate the Roman liturgy, and his plans to clean up the Vatican Bank cost him his life.  David Yallop believes Luciani was murdered because of his plans to allow Catholics the right to use artificual birth control and his plans to clean up the Vatican Bank.  Murder figures into both these men's calculations of this extraordinary event.  Of the second, who would deny that Wojtyla has left the Vatican Bank unchanged and uncleansed?  He also has not, according to seer Sister Lucia, effected the Consecration of Russia, nor has he changed the Church's law on artificial contraception.  He has, interestingly, restored the Roman liturgy to usage.  The true face of Villot showed itself during the reign of Paul VI, and is captured unflinchingly in Yallop's book.  Even Paul VI knew of Villot's clear submission to Freemasonry, but he cowered in the face of it for years before acting.  This is the kind of book that makes Malachi Martin believable.  I think an even more intriguing question than whether and by whom Pope John Paul I was murdered, is whether important decisions in the life of Catholics which would prescind from the pope alone, subsequent to Luciani's death either did or did not happen;  to look at it from this angle brings Yallop's arguments, as far as they go, into an even sharper focus.  It's hard to be disappointed with ideas this interesting, and serious.	2002-04-03
US	51114497	R14LQWU2I3TFGF	0935216677	465302705	To Quell the Terror: The Mystery of the Vocation of the Sixteen Carmelites of Compiegne Guillotined July 17, 1794	Books	5	49	52	N	Y	ultimate book on compiegne martyrs	This is a first-rate book, made important by intense and impeccable scholarship, and as well by genuine devotion on the author's part (himself an Orthodox Christian and an academic).  William Bush's unadorned and concentrated understanding of the mystery of sacrifice hands this book a beautiful and finally essential aspect in  revealing the holocaust of sixteen nuns against even Reason - Who bore the sons that made the madness.  Bush wisely makes a book about more than religion and murder, and creates a perfect moving stream out of tidal events, making an awfully effective read.  He takes especial pains to dissect the coming about of the holocaust from the view of innocents; the proposition of the choice to be made, the preparation, he even enters the interior lives of the Prioress and Mistress of Novices - aristocratic women living out the literal meaning of privilege.  By keeping to the truth, Bush proves these women's gain of discernment and transparency, the silent witnessing so despised by the disciples of the Terror.  This is a big book in a relatively thin guise.  The author makes too much of the importance of Gertrude von Le Fort's fanciful tale, but his own commanding scholarship speaks for itself, and nothing can diminish the effectiveness of a magnificent effort. The cover bears a daring and beautiful photo of an oblation scene from a production of 'Dialogues of the Carmelites'.	2002-02-25
US	51114497	R1QVNEQFRB9228	0140194614	512147330	Myths to Live By	Books	4	20	25	N	Y	Useful and beautiful	This book reads like an essential afterword to the great video series.  The chapters on mythologies of love, and of war and peace are especially effective. Campbell's teaching is direct, and honed to a useful, beautiful glow.  He's a courageous thinker, able to order  considerable insights with impeccable ease.  Leaves us the richer.  He's hailed for the scope of his vision, yet it's the inevitable intimacy of Campbell's teaching genius that makes his books so effective.  Read this book and find a realm vaster and more intimate than one that brung ya!  --that's effective spiritual reading, the fruit of clearly intense scholarship, and Campbell makes it immediate and consoling.  Delivers what it promises.  It's difficult to be disappointed by stuff this fine.	2002-01-21
US	51114497	R10XVOQIA5N4B1	0935216014	982735165	The Complete Works of Elizabeth of the Trinity, vol. 1 (featuring a General Introduction and Major Spiritual Writings) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	77	78	N	Y	Elizabeth harvested!	This centenary series of the Complete Works is a major accomplishment.  Volume I ('I Have Found God') goes right to the heart of Elizabeth's mystical vocation with a positively riveting General Introduction by Conrad De Meester, O.C. D., followed by a brilliant translation of Elizabeth's writings by Alethia Kane.  Elizabeth's four major spiritual treatises being written in the last three months of her life, it's difficult to go anywhere but to the distinct heart of her message.  I doubt that I've ever read a more enlightened essay on Elizabeth than De Meester's.  If you look to understand who this woman was, read his perfect Introduction; taken together with a brief biography, he produces an ancient Elizabeth in an essential light.  His appreciation burns with real insight into an obscured message and an authentic modern mystic.  Kane leaves Elizabeth's voice alone, as other translators have not, making Kane's courageous, and ultimately peerless contribution the more valuable by leagues.  Highest recommendation for Vols. I &amp; II-- it's a champion series.	2002-01-21
US	51114497	R1H0TAHPO317R5	0898704340	61616272	Women Mystics: Hadewijch of Antwerp, Teresa of Avila, Therese of Lisieux, Elizabeth of the Trinity, Edith Stein	Books	2	23	26	N	Y	informative, but only just!	This is an interesting book, enough that I wish it were a great one. Generous delving into Hadewijch of Antwerp, her mysticism and its rights, right to the essence of Hadewigian spirituality-- there are some fine passages illumined with Bouyer's considerable gifts, and a superb translation (by Mother Columba Hart) of a Hadewijch spring aubade that leaves you pinned to its two pages for a spell!  Bouyer's thought is lean and clean, and admirable for that, but pointlessly smug with a really old-fashioned modernism.  Some of his remarks on Elizabeth of the Trinity betray this tendency, and in fact nearly indicate that he hasn't understood her mystic gifts one whit, however well-schooled his observations are.  This affectation is less noticable in his remarks on Therese Martin, although he reckons Elizabeth Catez's family \\"more open to the world and generally more cultured\\" than the Martins.  He loves Edith Stein most of all, of course, and he manages some genuinely interesting insights into a rather overexposed spirituality.  The lines he draws between Stein and Husserl are interesting enough, but nothing new, I think because he's apparently miles from grasping the living charism of Carmel.  While he devotedly mentions Teresa- \\"such a scatterbrain, the copies of whose spiritual writings betray superficiality and a pretentious vacuum on every page\\"- Fr. Bouyer might benefit most from reading again not only the 'Life', but 'The Book of Foundations' as well, to receive, hopefully, what he has not yet learned-- interestingly, the very Thing received freely, learned quickly and lived profoundly by Elizabeth of the Trinity.  Predictable scholarship, book has no soul, take a pass.	2002-01-20
US	51114497	R18LI2OQ4249EM	0156825295	627980489	The Sign of Jonas	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Perfect spiritual literature	This classic book finds Merton in his burgeoning prime as a writer and at the emotional apogee of his monastic life; readying for ordination, and the subsequent unfolding of a spiritual path which he so fully lived at Gethsemani abbey, still true then, still pristine.  Later, of course, things soured a bit, Merton's mind moved on, his spiritual understanding both widened and deepened.  But the journal pages in 'The Sign of Jonas' are among the most beautiful on the block, infused with Merton's joy of religion, and with his magnificent prose.  It's always seemed a daunting idea, if not impossible, to both describe the innocent and inevitable timbre of Thomas Merton's voice and to adequately praise it.  We can lament that there is only so much Merton to read, yet one is flushed a bit with relief knowing that every page of every book contains the whole of his spiritual, not to mention literary, genius.  'Sign of Jonas' sits up at the top of the heap, along with 'Waters of Siloe' and 'Bread in the Wilderness', and the incredible 'Journals'.   The geniality of the book is such that it becomes everything just to read his pages on the changing landscape at Gethsemani come winter, and the snow!  Merton's intense Love is like a burning coal through to the end.  Impossible to remain unchallenged in the face of this kind of perfect spiritual literature.	2001-11-19
US	51114497	R1Q7PW0GHPL3GL	0679722033	912565168	The Emperor: Downfall of an Autocrat	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	shocking and fine!	A manifestly brilliant piece of historico-devotional literature, in this, the second book of his trilogy on absolute power, Polish scholar Kapuscinski is relentless in his 'interviews'!  Updike's on the money, the book is hewn poetic to the point of a palpable tenderness, with language that is almost voluptuous in its lurid candor.  And such sorrow, the pages can hardly hold it!  As an allegory of communism, the author weaves universal tales out of the remarkable story of Haile Selassie and his Ethiopia.  The book has a hypnotic, narcotic kind of ardor, very personal, yet strangely and beautifully universal.  It's not only possible, but nearly guaranteed, that in these pages one can gaze upon a kind of hero-martyr the likes of which are rare enough, but nearly obscure in modern literature.  Get your fill here.  This is magnificent stuff!	2001-10-03
US	51114497	RF9W2JM975T64	0374284466	519129123	Jackie Under My Skin: Interpreting an Icon	Books	4	5	11	N	N	supercharged koestenbaum!	While not the singular masterpiece that his &quot;The Queen's Throat&quot; remains, &quot;Jackie Under My Skin&quot; is an engaging, visceral, punchy romp through a classic American icon and an endearing ideal, while being at the same time a great deal more.  Koestenbaum's theme remains the search surrounding our dilemma, he's a master of disguise that ends revealing everything . This book immediately goes under YOUR skin when you read it-- Koestenbaum's famous 5000 eyes see everything and keep everything balanced and bright. His literary sense is overpowering. The words leap and bite and nearly drown you sometimes. Koestenbaum's version of reality is clean and robust; this is a writer in jaw-dropping command of his thought. The prose is often downright shocking. Koestenbaum's preference to explore the threads of existence and suffering in a uniquely devoted way marks him out among modern writers, and he's an academic, as well; riding a single vein, a single notion, into the most perfect art, he is all about genius and the so-called redemptive aspects of literature, without ever leaving the most modern, most natural sensibility. His work is marvelous to READ. I would commend to you everything this fellow has written, especially &quot;The Queen's Throat&quot;, but this book on Jackie is awfully fine.	2001-09-04
US	51114497	R22XNRBN6NTY6A	0060193689	288480034	Rule By Secrecy: The Hidden History that Connects the Trilateral Commision, the Freemasons and the Great Pyramids	Books	3	5	13	N	Y	a book of conclusions..	Jim Marrs turns a plethora of facts, suppositions, coincidence, and indeed skullduggery into a book of conclusions.  Whether these conclusions, documenting a vast, impenetrable, centuries-old conspiracy, are 'true', is perhaps less important than what it takes to get the world to believe that they are true.  In this case, a little 'caveat emptor' goes a long way toward keeping one's head clear of the drain circling maelstrom being given its indictment within these pages.  There is no doubt a good deal of truth to the author's conclusions with respect to an interrelationship existing between so-called &quot;secret societies&quot;, such a conclusion is, after all, acknowledged as being at least canonical, if not factual, even by mainstream historians; but the malaise which is appropriated to that nefarious concerted web is all Mr. Marrs' doing, however welcomed it may be by those wishing to explain the world's history by their own misfortune.  As for the book's forays into extra-terrestrial territory, perhaps the less said the better.  Here one finds explanations that do not beguile the modern thinker so much as confound him.  What is the point of believing or disbelieving such extravagance?  It is an axiom of human invention that warns us that when we discover the forces that have enslaved us, we have discovered ourselves.  In other words, it is impossible to ascribe dark and malevolent powers to those who have enslaved us without naming ourselves.  It is there that certain of the author's theories come to rest; dead, or at least dying, of their own extravagant desire to fill in the cracks of history with the putty of conspiracy.  A book like this might have been a serious discussion of the nature of power, the desire that it engenders, the havoc that its devotees wreak.  Instead, one finds a bit of comic strip approach, interesting in places, but falling into the trap of faulty logic, or no logic at all, revealing its weakness as human, to a fault.  Still... one wonders how ELSE to explain the election of an idiot scion to the presidency of the United States in full view of the world, not to mention all those curious little sorrows that beset human life and remain astonishing and 'unexplainable' after millennia of recorded human history.  Buy this book, just don't necessarily turn its scriptural pages with a literalist's predilection.  There is much more to be said, and so very much more to be understood.	2001-04-17
US	51114497	R1MZOM5YKTOBTJ	0691074380	455274985	Sviatoslav Richter: Notebooks and Conversations	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	A giant of a book!	The epic documentary film &quot;Richter, the Enigma&quot; was his crowning moment as a visionary, and this book is a bewitching companion--  a beautiful summation of Bruno Monsaingeon's life's paean to Art.  'Notebooks and Conversations' is a powerhouse!  great in its subject, its inventiveness, and achieving a seamless framing of one of life's peerless musicians.  Richter reveals himself and his art subtly - without fanfare, contrariness, with no bother at all-- it's an astonishing act made the more affecting by its silent invoking of a kind of perfect resignation with no bitterness.  The opening pages are beautiful...Richter speaks of how the opera taught him everything about music, about the piano-- for musicians especially, reading his thoughts are a trove of consolation.  The last half of the book with its neat arrangement of Richter's journal 'topic/notes and observations' on each page is as fulfilling as a second book!  Richter makes observations about recordings, concerts, artists and composers, with joy, insight and reserve mingled in equal parts, and equal footing is afforded both the kind and the provocatively distant Richter; here Monsaingeon's unerring artistic sense provides editing as wise as it is subtle.  Monsaingeon's love for this project is palpable throughout, as with the film, and he talks a bit in the Introduction about that love.  His legacy as a documentarian is enhanced, if possible, even more with this invaluable book.  Photos are frequent, sometimes almost unexpected -- and Richter, his face and bearing often resembling Jean Genet's, seems free and sad, resigned, responsible for a life of immense gifts, immense burdens, yet strangely indifferent to it all.  At the end of the Introduction, Monsaingeon tells of finally deciding to edit out of his Richter film an 'ending' where he beautifully manages to 'thank' Richter, believing, as he says, that, after all, &quot;it goes without saying.&quot;    If you have any interest at all in books ofthis kind, your pleasure over this book will be rich and glad indeed, it goes without saying.  Don't hesitate!	2001-03-29
US	51114497	R3O1FLS7ZYV5AU	0781209102	485126417	Holy Wisdom	Books	5	15	22	N	N	One of a kind..	In one of the essential works of Christian ascetic spirituality, Baker's English recusant spirituality brings an oddly freeing severity to his religious aesthetic at every juncture; an outlook that is ever inward seeking, born whole out of a wild and beautifully impatient spirituality that has no perimeters short of bliss.  By the purity of Baker's doctrinal whole cloth, Christian teaching attains a universal spiritual essence unlike that found within Aquinas' bindings, for example - one equipped with a wider, and thus less problematic, reach; an expansive conquest is the result, the contemplative asthetic full born and ready for the plucking.  This book proves that deep is wide, and deeper is wider; and bequeaths, almost as if by birthright, the wide road of the heart fixed on attainment.  Baker's teaching is constant, almost incessant, and rife with a dry and devout English care.  Treasured by religious of many traditions, this is a one of a kind book of training for any wayfarer sincere in seeking.  Mine is an older Faber and Faber edition which I've read many times through, and I'm scandalised at the price here - I suppose availability, and thus cost, is guided by public necessity.  Would that more of us sought what remains, even in this astonished age, an antidote to barbarity, and a guide to the rooms of light.	2001-03-29
US	51114497	RXKRW5NTBI1W9	0671866397	822596527	Warriors Don't Cry: A Searing Memoir of the Battle to Integrate Little Rock's Central High	Books	5	9	12	N	N	essential reading!	An essential book!  Beals is a natural writer, and the crucible forging this story of the integration of Little Rock's Central High School is white racial terror in the South, its instigators and followers, its political actors (Orval Faubus &amp; Eisenhower), and its victims.  The author spares no one in her indictment of the REAL story of the American South without ever raising her voice.  There is too much humility to suspect that anything but the strict truth is told here-- and a brutal and harrowing truth it is.  Anyone who persists in believing that the United States is justified in lecturing another country on human rights abuses should read this book!  American schools may be 'integrated' for the most part, and there has indeed been substantial reckoning with respect to the destiny of people of color in this nation, but reading this book one inevitably meets head-on all that yet remains unchanged, unprogressed; one thinks of James Byrd, Rodney King, and so many others.  All the same, there is a distinct peace that pervades its pages, one suspects it belongs to the author in full measure, bequeathed to her as an annointed inheritance by her grandmother India, especially, and her mother Lois.  Much to admire here-- content, author, and perfectly modulated writing of the highest caliber.  My high school daughter recommended this book to me, and that pleases me in what it says about teenage ideas of essential reading as much as does her sure solicitude for her reading dad.  Read it and find unaccounted faith in the possibilities of the human spirit.	2001-03-18
US	51114497	R2BH7MIF1EWF6K	0306809974	38104890	The Autobiography Of Joseph Stalin: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	enter Uncle Joe..	This book surprised me!  The bare-boned, almost meditative, style with which Lourie endows the ruminations of `The Great Gardener' is but one part of a brilliant Idea on how most effectively to flesh out the despot.  Lourie underplays everything - Stalin's conscience, his political acumen, his brutality- underplays it until it completely dominates the reader's mind and heart.  Early on, the skin of Stalin begins  to creep onto our own frame, such adept fiction this is.  It `s a remarkable feat, and makes a complete success of this book.  What Lourie flushes out, almost by a kind of telepathy, is a riveting look at the world from Stalin's mind; Uncle Joe's obsession with Trotsky's being, and yet especially with Trotsky's feverishly tended manuscript, gives the book a tight focus, but the mesmerizing moments come as Stalin glistens in the depravity of his brutality. I think, if one pays attention, it's a book that convicts us of our own inhumanities.  And the book's feeling of briefness works to amplify everything within.  Check it out - the haunting is long lasting.	2001-03-15
US	51114497	R3QJ12PYGOREX4	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	6	7	N	N	a kingly book..	I agree with so many of the reviewers previous who praised this book.  It's a monumental piece of writing, besides being a fervent indictment of the colonialist mind.  The indictment is made without reserve, its scaffolding always present, and there's genuine intellect around the pages.  I remain astonished at the efficiency of the prose; Hochschild leads a heady charge to the middle of what these things mean, his own humanity in full array. It really is masterful.  I would only add-- make no mistake, the key to this book lies in the way Conrad's 'Heart of Darkness' is brought to heel, by subtle and instructive means, especially in the chapter 'Meet Mr. Kurtz.'  It is from THAT place of intense truth, as from a hot central core, that this book spins out its dreadful tale.  Page after page, one is stung anew at learning the exactly dissected layers of these creatures-- Leopold, Stanley, these monsters feeding from a decadent culture, one already in decline, though none but soothsayer knew it then.  The prose is as clean and free as the story it reveals is filthy and made of oppression;  I think that clash has a great deal to do with how affording an experience reading this book is.  It's a book of sorrow, nothing really has prepared one for it; but Hochschild works a kind of love over this book, and the rewards are immense.  Recommendation, no reservation.	2001-03-15
US	51114497	R3B1LF8TMEKYEQ	0684825341	354804936	Telling The Truth	Books	1	12	28	N	N	to tell the truth..	This is a repellent, brutish book. I made myself read it to satisfy a dare I made myself, but also to find a cat's eye slant on Lynne Cheney, whose reputation as one of the more capable apparatchiks of New Town it seemed useful to pursue, even if providing but  a moment's frivolity. What you meet with in the pages of this book is a large dose of political expediency, and a heap of quite sophisticated intellectual dishonesty. One certainly cannot admire the author, nothing prepares one for the intellectual posturing in this book, its content is consistently offensive; its doctrinaire boxing is merely annoying, but the doctrine itself is dangerous. Postmodernism will survive, and find new veins for strengthening itself for us all, despite this rampant little treatise. Like many conservatives, even thinking ones, Cheney easily (and always) paints herself into the proverbial corner by the broad strokes of her mean beliefs. These are a spider's thoughts, a spider's eyes looking at the world. 'Telling the Truth' doesn't tell the truth, and more, doesn't care. It's fascinating how many times in this book one hears how things must be tightened up, how more people must be made more accountable, how the tough must get tougher, it runs like a litany of the privileged. The privileged are always wanting to tighten things up. I expect this is one of the cleverer pieces that will be served up by the ruling class during the Bush years. Sure, for the obvious gifts of communication the author displays, it's an easy three stars; I simply can't credit a book that hasn't the self-respect to tell the truth.	2001-03-10
US	51114497	R1W4ULE9A980DS	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	1	15	42	N	N	what a forlorn little book this is!	There's nothing enlightening in the pages of this book - it is pure, old-fashioned American drivel.  The book's shtick is honed, but its creed is unbelievable. From beginning to end, the content here is more demogoguery than journalism (witness the grinding chapter on the dynamics of public service, and the regressive huffing and puffing on the rearing of children) One cannot progress more than half a page in this tiresome epic without receiving yet another big helping of self-righteous gruel;  a mush served in soured old schoolmarm style, pathetically old-fashioned, all charmless and prissy.  The book (interminable, by the way, at a mere 200 pages!) manoeuvers the 'hot-button' issues one by one, pretends to break open each one, shake it free of the 'imprisoning' imposed on it by people who actually think, finally reducing it to the size of a few miserable scavenger notions of right and wrong.  It can be a fascinating ride, as demogoguery often is, but one would be mistaken to set a moral compass by the vain, predictable and heartless conclusions drawn in this bestseller.  I don't think I've ever encountered a book more obsessed with the idea that someone might possibly get something in this country that he or she doesn't deserve to have!  What gets presented here is a mongrol drone of the most demeaning variety, a witless message that reads like a kind of upside-down Horatio Alger with his socks on his nose, thinking everyone smells what he smells!  What a forlorn book this is; that it sits at the top of the bestseller charts is but another alarming bellweather of a culture in decline.  My recommendation to anyone considering reading this book is to stick to the tabloids - for their honesty, if nothing else.	2001-03-08
US	51114497	R1FTN69IKWC1DM	0804819777	34492845	Pure Heart, Enlightened Mind: The Zen Journal and Letters of Maura "Soshin" O'Halloran	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Zen is eternal life!	A marvelous book from beginning to end.  The utter unpretentiousness of Maura O'Halloran's rich spiritual journuey is a miracle to encounter.  It's so difficult, at book's end, to take leave of this shining young person, this quiet buddha , but she strengthens us for the inevitable by teaching so pure, so real, so necessary, that the natural world of our own lives is changed forever, charged with her abiding and beholden to her example.  Others here have stated well the 'content' one finds in these pages; I wish only to say thank you to Maura's wise and devoted family for making the effort to provide us with these journals and family letters.  Her mother's Introduction, with its simple and moving veneration of her daughter's life, sets a loving compass for the journey ahead; her sister Elizabeth's drawings are clearly pulled from her own heart, and her brother's afterword together give us an infinitely deep understanding of the means behind the meaning of this extraordinary young woman's life's journey.  This is a book of great hope, abundant humor, and sure grace for anyone who reads it.  Abundant recommendation without reserve;  read it and walk anew the paths of love.	2001-02-26
US	51114497	R287QQUJLNAMXE	0918477603	242003984	Trojan Horse in the City of God: How Godlessness Crept into the Sanctuary-And How to Thrust It Out Again	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Pruning the orchard without intransigence!	I would describe Dietrich von Hildebrand's books as pruning the orchard without intransigence.  No integrist, von Hildebrand states the case for his considerable position with a confident intelligence and virtually no mud-slinging; in the intra-Catholic battles that rampage the landscape these days, that's no small feat!   Von Hildebrand is first a philosopher, but he acquits himself as a theologian no less assuredly.  His diagnoses of the ills that afflict the Roman Church in the modern age, with the possible exception of Michael Davies, are without peer, and are certainly born of profound scholarship.  His language is firm and clear, and without conceit.  'Trojan Horse in the City of God' is his most consistently engaging work, especially in terms of identifying the nature and cause of the Church's affliction; when it comes to answers, von Hildebrand's choices may please or displease, but his argument is noble and more than reverent- it incorporates the most elemental aspects of human common sense, making it stronger than the sum of its parts.  The mystery of the Church is more than a quagmire of infractions, a recompense of abject violations; the Aristotelian in von Hildebrand tends to spin from the center down, not out.  The Thomism never runs dry.  That, perhaps more than the argument itself, keeps his voice from resounding more than it does throughout this admirable book.  Nevertheless an important read for anyone interested in the scholarship of the Counter-Reformation in the XXth century.	2001-02-19
US	51114497	R1D0Y8CI4JP85Y	0934252610	253359298	Sit: Zen Teachings of Master Taisen Deshimaru	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Kwatz!	This is a great book.  A collection of the retreat teachings of Zen master Taisen Deshimaru that hits like a shot of sharp sun!  Lovingly edited by Deshimaru's long-time student, Philippe Coupey, page after page reveals the Soto master at the apogee of his deep success. For a practitioner, it's a joy to experience the thunder of Deshimaru's method, his keen intellect, and his profound religiousness.  As the retreat progresses, the pages are increasingly penetrated with descriptions of the physical aspects of meditation in the dojo in the mountains of Val d'Isere, in France- the flowing water outside the zendo, the natural sounds of the sangha.  It's a beautiful, remarkable book in the line of Shunryu Suzuki's teaching, and what's finer than that?!  Deshimaru says: Zazen is dry wood without thinking.  The deep wisdom arises.  The blue mountain stands alone.  Looking like a modern day Bodhidharma (there are some great photos in the book!), the best and deepest sense of Deshimaru the buddha never leaves you from the instant you start reading, indeed even once you've finished.  Useful, timeless spiritual reading.	2001-02-17
US	51114497	R56P9A5OM77HL	1582430977	373175325	A Woman Unknown: Voices from a Spanish Life	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A beautiful inheritance	I've not read another book as lovely as this one in a long time!  The estimable daughter of Robert Graves creates in beautiful prose an estimable voice of her own, while wearing warm and honorable traces of her father's literary genius; there's a common clarity, and distinction in the language.   There's remarkable writing on every page; the ever so gradual reaching deep into the heart of Franco almost by not mentioning him, the destruction of her Spain from within, the passion of her love for her Catalan self, among her many selves- it's a thoroughly important book in every way.  The first and last sections work like bookends and are epsecially right; Graves' subtle reflections on her relationship with her mother.  This is English prose of the first order.  Of course, one has a natural penchant to want to find wonderful amber things in her writing, given one's regard for the work of her father; the interesting thing is that her own voice presents itself right off, so much so that one ends praising even more the virtue of the inheritance, rather than getting lost in the echos.  Her reflections on the work of a translator are beautifully woven throughout the book, and reveal a meticulous care for the possibilities of language.  The ways in which she chooses to speak of her father in this memoir are memorable; at the oddest, least unexpected moment the narrative will turn and there is Robert Graves, father.  This really is an irrepleaceable work of art.  I commend it to everyone to read, there is something for every reader in these slender pages, and that surely expresses the consummate perfection of its parts.	2001-02-09
US	51114497	R1NWS47B4VJB07	0140267735	485659651	Between Heaven and Hell: The Story of as Thousand Years of Artistic Life in Russia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a unique approach!	Once past the Introduction, which is so laden with copious details of the lurid opulence of the coronation of Nicholas II and Alexandra that the effect is almost soporific, this is a marvelous history of Russia's immense cultural heritage.  For a single-volume history of an epic thousand years, it's rich with nugget after nugget of genuine scholarship and understanding about a seemingly infinite panoply of artistic riches.  Lincoln not only covers all the arts- architecture, painting, music, literature (his revelations of Gogol are alone worth the price of the volume!), he exquisitely realises an integration of his subject into a fine general history of Russia.  Catherine the Great is given rather short shrift, not much meat there, but the chapters on the Romantic period and the rise of Realism are fascinating and meticulous crafted.  This is history writing Richard Pipes can only dream of- readable, deep, authentic, and beautifully attuned to genuine literary merit.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in a comprehensive history of Russian arts. It's intelligent, beautifully paced, and not burdened by unnecessary digression.  Russiaholics, of course, will eat it up!	2001-01-30
US	51114497	RIBG7UFDYWDAL	0743222229	738178942	George W. Bushisms: The Slate Book of Accidental Wit and Wisdom of Our 43rd President	Books	5	20	33	N	N	Weisberg wins 5 stars!	Having been an admirer of Slate magazine's 'Complete Bushisms' page for lo these many months, how could I resist picking up this printed collection?   'Dubya' doesn't get any stars at all because the man is an imbecile, but Jacob Weisberg wins 5 big stars, the kiss, the kit and the whole kaboodle for the sheer invention of cataloging these revealing utterances of the 43rd President.  A compendium of little horrors - what a droll idea!  Unfortunately, the invigorating aspect of mulling over the living theatre offered in these pages stops with a thud upon realizing that the nightmare isn't vanishing after all, that it really has moved into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue;  frankly, it takes one's breath away.  The only known antidote to the terror engendered by reading this collection of Bushisms is to read one of Lynne Cheney's books.  Having forced myself to finish her repellent &quot;Telling the Truth&quot; by arduously clinging to the dictum that one is forearmed by knowing the enemy,  it would seem that I've undergone a conversion, as I now find myself praying that nothing happens to make Dick Cheney the 44th President...	2001-01-30
US	51114497	R3FRPC7P6316IB	0446404535	616137316	Brother Cadfael's Penance (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	a splendid ending to Cadfael's legacy!	This final installment of the mysteries of Brother Cadfael finds Ellis Peters in outstanding form- what prose this Englishwoman conjures!  Of all the Cadfael mysteries, this is one of the finest!  The writing is typically adroit - wise, full and redeeming, and the passages found toward the last third of the book, describing the interior heart of Brother Cadfael towards Olivier, his 'unknown' son, are as beautifully trenchant as anything one will find in popular prose writing.  In this series of books, the mysteries themselves are always well-placed and fascinating, authentic and without tricks, but again, it is the superlative writing of Ellis Peters, the warmth of the language and the architecture of its comeliness, that captivates; indeed, she has permanently raised the genre of mystery novel to a new plateau of genuine literary interest.  P.D. James, eat your heart out!  All 20 Cadfael mysteries highly recommended - an addiction to treasure!	2001-01-26
US	51114497	R14SSLO6FLGJHR	0679452753	416162364	The Buddha from Brooklyn	Books	5	16	23	N	N	magic everywhere!	Whatever the truth is about Jetsunma Ahkoen, this is a splendid book. Martha Sherrill's take, occasionally more Sherrill than Jetsunma, is provocative and intense.  As a reader, the book was hard to put down; as a practitioner, I'd recommend careful consideration before condemning Jetsunma Ahkoen Lhamo as inauthentic.  Magic is one of the signal elements of Tibetan Buddhism, more so than most westerners can comprehend, and there are fascinating if not wholly revealing elements to the story of this female lama, an intricate person of unabashed contradiction, that are redolent of authentic Tibetan mysticism.  In desiring to dismiss Jetsunma as huckster or mere cult mistress, one must confront the formidable essence of Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, whose recognition confirmed her as the first American tulku. One must as well confront the teaching of Jetsunma herself, teaching that is less New Age than new form; power cadenced with humility and sparked with the particular vibrancy of Tibetan Buddhism.  One cannot read the story of this woman's transformation and sudden full bloom with western eyes alone; the west will die by the old paradigm even while proclaiming liberation. Where we are young in our insight, Jetsunma Ahkoen often has stars for eyes.  With respect to another reviewer, Tibetan Buddhism IS full of cults and crazy lamas; such is part of its inheritance and its power.  It's not extravagance, or even a mistake, that can give Tibetan Buddhism 'a bad name,' but rather a reduction of its holistic nature to a catalog of misplaced western notions of spirituality that can,and will inexorably, make it founder.  A being like Jetsunma is an anti-dote to this downslide, and thus one that is, not surprisingly, a sign of contradiction. The author's ability to 'read between the lines' is occasionally inferior to her literary gifts, which are considerable. Many are off-put by the Beverly Hills glow revealed in places in this book, a glowing perhaps conditioned less by the teaching of Jetsunma Ahkoen than by her enthralled detractors.  I suspect a wider and wiser appreciation of this woman and her work will eventually be needed.  But there's magic everywhere, as alive and inexorable as Buddha Mind in the pages of this joyous book! You want a taste of religion as the fever stone of love?  read 'The Buddha of Brooklyn.'  5 ecstatic, foretelling stars!	2001-01-23
US	51114497	RIBTKK9HEQJIN	0486287149	282010593	Death in Venice (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	22	N	N	the truest art!	Is there a finer experience than reading Thomas Mann?  Death in Venice is his masterpiece, in my view (and arguably, one might add, Britten's greatest opera!), and, though the Russians come to mind, its pages, soaked in the majesty of the greatest art, reveal probably the greatest writing artist of the modern age.  Aschenbach's passion is our own dilemma, and no other artist but Thomas Mann could leave him so lean and broken in our arms, and capable by that condition to fill us with consuming humanness.  The philosopher Mann takes a language of human wounds and shows us ourselves, giving witness thereby to the essential power of literature.  I consider it an act of religion to read Death in Venice every couple years.  Religion is where, perhaps, we meet our heart; at the very least, art of this solicitude prompts a kind of faith that we still have one, after the wearing of the years, and all our private griefs.  I hope the high schools and colleges are yet keeping Mann near, our children must yet gather and collect the food necessary to feed them all their lives.  To 'recommend' this books seems almost pseudo-messianic! but if one commends it, let it be called not the work of a great literary messiah, but the cry of one of our brothers- a cry inextinguishable and provident.	2001-01-21
US	51114497	R2SW14YPNN33ZF	0679451307	619600292	My First 79 Years	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The book's a joy!	With the exception of Yehudi Menuhin, it's best to approach the autobiographical excursions of great musical artists with more than a little skepticism.  How many disappointments have flown into the meadow by that route!  This engaging effort by Isaac Stern is therefore a more than little delight, filled with the characteristically notable voice of one of the authentic humanists of the 20th century, not to mention one of the great fiddlers of all time.  Stern's writing is great deal like his playing; verve and confidence riding the high clouds with surety and an unmistakably personal passion.  I often thought, while reading this book, how no one in my experience plays Kreisler's 'Schon Rosmarin' like Stern -for all the salon qualities of the piece, it has a heart of pure gold-  and this book resembles that little encore nugget in more than a few ways: true, one wishes at times that Stern would simply go on with his thought, go on with the memory at hand, even with the discussion at hand; yet in many ways he keeps up the flavor of his reminiscences by the succinctness, and at times almost the distractedness, of his writing/speaking style.  I would argue that in fact he does give us quite a bit of his way of looking at not only his own life, but the wonder called the human experience, it's just that with this man one simply wants the conversation to go on and on.  Even when speaking of his children (which he does often, even including charming transcriptions of little tape recordings of Daddyspeak for his wife and children when he was so often away on tour), Stern's power to captivate arises full from his honesty, indeed one of the great attributes of his music making.  Chaim Potok's hand in the affair seems somehow deep under, and therefore probably pervasive and beautifully wise (as is every Chaim Potok effort!), leaving Stern's voice alive and vibrant, humanly awkward at times, and always surprising in its direct power- very much like the playing of this most gifted of musicians.  Despite the obvious limitations that will always attend a book like this, it remains a delight, charming if not all revealing, even moving.  Lovers of music won't be disappointed!	2001-01-21
US	51114497	R2Z572NG6960TI	1582340455	492539730	Cave in the Snow	Books	4	34	38	N	Y	The story shines through!	It would seem difficult to commend sufficiently the merit of this book.  Despite lackluster writing by journalist Vicki MacKenzie (whose fascinating book on lama Osel, the surprising tulku recently discovered in Spain, seemed affected arbitrarily by the same lack of dynamism in the writing) the story of Tenzin Palmo shines through, and witnesses to a kind of freedom that is the stuff of legend, and a harbinger of peace.  Her presence is clear on every page, distinct and standing and shining on its own power, and perhaps in that way MacKenzie's notably waveless style serves the book well.  The book is assembled beautifully, MacKenzie takes her time in just the right places; the final few chapters take up a kind of ecstatic explosion of joy, rumbling to a final free-flying celebration of a remarkable woman's life and freedom.  I enjoyed it immensely;  and what really calls, and remains a part of us is the woman, this rather great personage of achievement, the lama of freedom- Tenzin Palmo!  Her teaching is without any superfluous edges, one finds on nearly every page of this book an immensely grateful and happily intelligent woman, one worth considering for the quality of her genuine spiritual impact.  One of the more satisfying books I've read this year, its minimalist decor notwithstanding; not that the writing is so impoverished, but a little bloodless, as I say.  But take heart, Tendzin Palmo is a bountiful journey!  4 glad stars!	2001-01-13
US	51114497	R4LA3UZYQGN3	1570624151	718893210	I Give You My Life: The Autobiography of a Western Buddhist Nun	Books	4	13	13	N	N	What a story!	Ayya Khema's beautifully written account of her life reads like a rocket ship!  From barely escaping Hitler's evil in Germany as a young Jewish girl, through marriages, children, and a thoroughgoing journey of sparkling life through myriad cultures and continents, to Buddhist nun and founder of a monastery -Nun's Island in Sri Lanka- to the final beautifully poignant full circle back with the founding of Buddha-Haus in Germany, here is an authentic story of liberation and of a gifted woman's joy of religion.  Spiritual-odyssey-memoirs are a dime a dozen these days, many of them barely worth the effort, but 'I Give You My Life' has a genuine spirit attending it; not only a wonderful memoir, it contains a few memorable moments of supremely confident religious experience conveyed without guile, and with admirable simplicity.  It's a pleasure to read and ends too quickly, yet everything has been covered beautifully and fully.  Khema effortlessly leaves her spirit with you, the mark of a true teacher - and probably of a buddha.  It's a wonderful book.	2001-01-09
US	51114497	R3OBLPPQ4T54NL	1568331304	371670527	Passing the Keys: Modern Cardinals, Conclaves and the Election of the Next Pope	Books	4	9	12	N	N	An interesting account!	An interesting account of papal history, especially respecting the relatively secret business of papal election.  Hebblethwaite takes the perspective of the left within the Church. It therefore has none of the profoundness one desires, but there are for the inquisitive a number of sly tidbits concerning the Monarchy that elects.  It seems written with a certain love for the Church and the papacy, if not for the disappeared (or quietly reappearing, it seems) remnants of its Tridentine past.  The first two-thirds of the book deals a fairly dull view of papacies Pius IX through Pius XII, then turns a focus on Paul VI.  Montini's stint is treated roughly by Burkle-Young, not that that's off-sync, but it's surprising given the good the author believes unfolded through Second Vatican Council; Paul VI's unique dedication was to fleshing out the post-Conciliar ethos and spirit in the life of the Church. An interesting section details how Paul VI used shaping of the College of Cardinals to essentially alter the Church for all time. Indeed, though Burkle-Young doesn't, one could argue that Paul VI's revolutionary restructuring of the Sacred College did more than any Council document to effect a successful repeal of Catholicism- the 'auto-destruction' of which pope Montini explicitly remarked more than once. Burkle-Young's description of the papacy of John Paul II is almost comical at times, alarmed over its 'Tridentine inclinations', calling John Paul II's the most conservative papacy since Pius X!  Wojtyla has his sense of the dramatic, to be sure, but 'conservative' is an inapt epithet for what's been a revolutionary papacy, for good or ill.  The best revelation is that Wojtyla, elected pope, wanted to take the name Stanislaus but was overruled by Benelli, the dark hand.  How much better a Pope Stanislaus than the ubiquitous John Paul, which seems to evoke a tennis player, or French hall singer. Burkle-Young's observation with respect to 'olives', Cardinal Martini, and thefamily name itself are wry and worthy. The book owns some scholarship; it's not too gossipy, but enough. 4 stars is generous, but 'Passing the Keys' probably deserves it.	2001-01-06
US	51114497	R28IKWZ5NZY0GF	0783814291	154726851	Dark Symphony and Other Works (AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN WRITERS, 1910-1940)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absolutely marvelous!	Henry Louis Gates' laudable publishing effort 'African-American Women Writers 1910-1940' series, a kind of chronological sequel to the celebrated Schomburg Nineteenth Century Black Women series, comes up with a winning piece of work by Elizabeth Laura Adams; 'Dark Symphony' details Adams' conversion to Catholicism beginning just after the Depression.  The character of this book is marvelous, warm and wonderful, and seems perfectly fitted to the story it relates.  There are some remarkable moments, for example, the description of Adams' desire for the confessional because of its anonymity -&quot;so no one could see I was black!&quot;-  indeed, there are a number of moments that leave one suspended in a kind of new truth, so remarkably adept is the prose. The work is scrupulously, lovingly edited by Carla Kaplan, a recent recipient of a fellowship at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, and herself an author.  Many of Adams' poems are included as well, including the ubiquitous 'The Last Supper', and two differing versions of her best-known 'The Consecrated.'   I hope this series of books is reaching the junior highs and high schools; works like 'Dark Symphony' deserve to be read, and read abundantly, by those whose minds and hearts will be shaping the world we're working toward.  Highest recommendation for a genuinely surprising work of literature, and teller of our common history.	2001-01-02
US	51114497	RG5N8539N1ATQ	0684831597	59241315	Dialogues and Discoveries: James Levine: His Life and His Music	Books	3	6	6	N	N	barely adequate	Not exactly a groundbreaker in the biographical art, this book nonetheless gives an adequate account of the work of maestro Levine, if in the end very little of his real personal life.  Why these books inevitably tend toward the mundane baffles me; Mr. Marsh plays the sycophant to the very end, and while controversy is not required to make interesting reading, it would seem to be a given, wouldn't it, that such unvarying adulation becomes a kind of flatulance after page 200-and-something.  How often this kind of nonsense spoils what might have been an interesting look at a certainly worthy musician of our time!  And Marsh is a relatively competent critic- one really expects more.  This book however does manage to rise above the painful because of an extended interview section in the middle;  Levine is a thoughtful and indeed a most decent chap, qualities that come through in his own comments, if not through his biographer's.  Marsh is no David Dubal, however, and Levine is left pretty much to his own devices with respect to exploring his art in any substantive way.  I should think he would be better served by an autobiography; Levine seems more inclined toward genuine experience than the fluff of Marsh's tiresome throes of ecstacy suggests.  Not for the casual observer, but anyone with an interest in the history of the Met will find it at least not without some compensation for one's efforts.	2001-01-02
US	51114497	R2HG2YVLXX19VT	0393040771	900547474	Glenn Gould: The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A shrink scorned?	Probably not, but this is a surprisingly shallow psychobiography of a remarkable musician of enormous attractiveness;  Glenn Gould was so gifted one might call him laden, and indeed Ostwald genuinely recognises this extraordinary condition, only to question the idea of such a thing, let alone its value, for the length of the book.  Well, it was simply a fact, and for all Gould's self-oppression, it's clear that he lived his extraordinary life as he wished, on his own terms, without regret; and considering the gifts of art left to the world by this magisterial musician, one cannot but admire the whole man, eccentricities and all!  In any case, Ostwald was never Gould's shrink, at least not in a professional sense, and who knows, perhaps the author is a better musician than writer.  As to Glenn Gould and how much of him is conjured in these pages, there is a great deal more to be said about Gould, but you'll not find much in this book.  The writing style is inapt, a reminiscence of sorts but with no warmth, certainly none to match the indelible warmth of its subject; Glenn Gould's artistic legacy remains not only intact, but warm and alive.  Though I have read most of Gould's own writings (a worthwhile endeavor, by the way), and a number of compilations including various appreciations of the man, this was the first full-scale biography for me; surely there are others more appropriately seasoned with right perspective.  Ostwald doesn't go very deep; one suspects he probed as deep as he was capable, but in the end one is left concerned that not much but the surface was peeled away.  Disappointing for us Gould-aholics, but not a complete waste of time.	2000-11-12
US	51114497	R1X9FM7JLCW8QC	0881841455	668573591	Aldous Huxley	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Distilling the biographer's art!	A perfect biography of one of the most celebrated and most interesting figures of the 20th century. The panoramic range of Huxley's genius is magnificently brought to life in this book. Everything is here- his historic antecedents, his famous family, his 30 yr. marriage to the beautiful Maria, the creation of his books, and not a little as well about his \\"psychedelic\\" period and his book \\"The Doors of Perception.\\"   Of course, Huxley is a marvelously inviting subject, intelligence and temperament combined in a man possessed of  extraordinary natural gifts.  The keen intellect of novelist Bedford is the key element; a rich understanding of Huxley's singular dialectic and his notably uncanny inner aesthetics makes splendid reading.  The whole book is warm and true; the affection of the writer toward her subject is clear, but never interfering, never common or cloying.  Bedford generously lets the reader walk and talk, travel and sup with Huxley, and her narrative skills are perfectly honed for such a daring operation; after all, it's one thing to merely write a biography of note, and another to unsheathe someone down to pure gold.  The latter would seem to be Bedford's forte in these pages; it is a miracle of literary biography and an extraordinary experience.  Highest recommendation without reservation.	2000-11-12
US	51114497	R2H5A3GV8PO6VQ	0312180365	704608032	Alexander Solzhenitsyn: A Century in His Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	a masterful piece of literature!	Tedious? Hardly!  This critical biography of Alexander Solzhenitsyn is a brilliant and masterful piece of work.  Solzhenitsyn's life and art, his epic and singular 20th century struggle, are persuasively treated with courage and truthfulness, and absolutely first-class literary accomplishment by novelist D. M. Thomas.  Rarely have I encountered a more affecting piece of biographical literature!  Solzhenitsyn's complexities seem to overload the century, and Thomas' patient and exceptionally intelligent narrative follows the thread of every turn with a novelist's master plan giving us, in the end, a scorching and beautiful appreciation of one of the rare writers of the 20th century.  The book is a compendium of modern Russian history as much as anything else, and it serves its subject well in refusing to varnish either the man or his milieu; Soviet history, especially with respect to the jarred lives of most of its great artists, is already known as one of history's great tragedies, and Thomas traces Solzhenitsyn's life-long transformation from Soviet man to Russian icon with meticulous care, and with a miraculous understanding of the wayward chagrin of history not often articulated in the biographer's art.  It's a massive book, yet because every word is made essential the narrative sails with genuine authority, and with a special beauty.  This is an important book, I would say even a gifted book, as indeed befits the story of one of the authentic geniuses of modern literature.  Highest recommendation without reservation.	2000-10-20
US	51114497	R333T3SPDY7C8	1852305509	54974814	Jesus Lived in India: His Unknown Life Before and After the Crucifixion	Books	4	117	125	N	N	Among the best on the subject!	Among a number of well researched and well composed books on the subject of the origins of the historical Jesus, Kersten's book remains one of the finest.  Cogently written without superfluous speculation, 'Jesus Lived in India' presents irrefutable evidence of Jesus' sojourn into India; his living, learning (becoming in fact a Buddhist adept), and eventually dying there.  Having chanced upon the evidence in Ladakh, Kersten patiently pieces together a mountain of evidence the profundity of which is only enhanced by his matter-of-fact style of presentation.  A comprehensive article by article, step by step look at the astonishing convergence of the teachings and life paths of Jesus and Buddha is one of the clearest and most convincing threads of Kersten's scholarship.  The ancient links between the Israelites and the East is intimately explored, and heartening conclusions are drawn.  Nearly every aspect of modern theological enquiry concerning Jesus with respect to the inadequate record provided by canonical scripture is examined lovingly and fearlessly; the years of Kersten's investigation are brought to thorough and enlightening fruition in the pages of this remarkable book.  It is clear that the political preoccupation of the Paulinist religion that has called itself Christianity for two thousand years has prevented, and continues to prevent, the dissemination and study of the true facts of Jesus' history; offering instead a lifeless, and often decadent, sectarian proposition of a Christ-martyr, the exclusive and moribund archtype of which has filled the Common Era with bloodshed and dissension, and propelled the world into a post-Christian era by its demonstrable manipulation of history.  Highly recommended reading for the discerning seeker.	2000-10-11
US	51114497	RD4P2ZFE1IM27	1852303328	563625128	Buddhism in Russia: The Story of Agvan Dorzhiev : Lhasa's Emissary to the Tsar	Books	4	11	11	N	N	An interesting slice of Buddhist history!	This is John Snelling's major work - he was putting the finishing touches on it when he died in 1992! - and tells the fascinating story of Agvan Dorzhiev, brilliant Mongolian lama and Lhasa's emmisary to Russia in the 19th century.  Arrayed against the backdrop of the fiercely Orthodox court of the Tsars with its sacred religio-political dominance over nearly every aspect of Russian life, the extraordinary progress made by Dorzhiev in setting Tibetan Buddhism on a solid footing in that land is a story of remarkable courage and success.  I always find Snelling's books a bit dry, if not strictly academic, but the scholarship shines, and the text is sure-footed and informative.  The kernal of the book's success lies in its thoroughness, and Snelling takes a comprehensive look as well at the post-Communist situation of Buddhism in Russia, and indeed makes a valuable contribution even in his speculative stance with respect to its future.  Included are some marvelous photos of Dorzhiev, and a brilliant mini-history of the Buryats (from which Dorzhiev arose) is wonderful.  Though quite readable, I would say this is definitely a specialist's book; more than a biography - certainly not hagiography! - it concerns itself with the what is, rather than the what if.  In any case, it's a tale unlikely to be found told anywhere else, and doubtless not with as much authority, if not passion, or with as carefully a wrought scrutiny as Snelling's.  Recommended for those inclined toward the myriad aspects of Buddhist history.	2000-10-03
US	51114497	R34EUIPA5RXXNY	0140103767	466312032	Arab and Jew: Wounded Spirits in a Promised Land	Books	5	37	40	N	N	A first-class book!	David Shipler's journalistic skills are enormous; the book is assembled nearly perfectly with balance, insight, and compassion.  I've read it through twice, and have never found another book that comes close in terms of presenting the truth of the Middle East conflict.  For American readers, the greatest service this book offers is an uncompromisingly fair, even wise, portrayal of the Palestinian side of the conflict in this region, if only because of America's historically pro-Israel policies; policies, incidentally, which have not always concerned themselves with truth.  Because of that act of journalistic justice, the peculiarly touching aspect of Israel's unavoidable internal sorrow at her predicament becomes, perhaps for the first time, something understandable and noble.  It is an easy thing to take sides in a situation such as one finds in the Middle East; it is not so easy to patiently explore the myriad strands of time and fate that weave through both sides of an 'unsolvable' conflict.  This book goes a long way toward making an attempt to do just that.  This is a clear-headed book 'spoken' by the very people involved; it is wise and engaging, and full of David Shipler's heart.  It is no wonder that it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize.  Highest recommendation!	2000-10-01
US	51114497	R3B5XEJBFJKJXW	0826512852	185339209	Stravinsky: Chronicle of a Friendship	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Intimate look at Stravinsky's world	Craft's amazing gifts as a writer are as interesting as is the story of  the extraordinary relationship of which he writes.  His famous and intimate  long-time relationship with Stravinsky and wife Vera makes for fascinating,  if not fast, reading.  Some of the most interesting people on the planet  make their appearance throughout the pages of this massive book (including  Auden, Huxley, Spender, and so many more), and all are treated with a  prepossessing intelligence, wit and intellectual candor by this remarkable  conductor/musician/friend, Robert Craft.  If Craft's own art is not that  well known to the man in the street, all the better for the role he assumes  in his many books about Stravinsky -that of an 'intimate without  portfolio', as it were, able to illumine Stravinsky from the inside out, no  small feat indeed.  Of course, Craft's own art is indeed prodigious, as his  many definitive recordings of Stravinsky's music, made since the composer's  death, have proven time and again. Page after page of this 'diary' reveals  the unique friendship between a genius and his 'brother-son'; Craft's  ability to disappear within his observorship in order to reveal the man to  whom he devoted such a great part of his life seems infinite, and so  admirable.  Craft's is a most perceptive mind, a mirror-mind to  Stravinsky's in many ways, and more than a glimpse is thereby afforded of  one of the titanic creative forces of the twentieth century.  He acted as  Stravinsky's alter-genius, if you will, and the results here are  spellbinding.  The book's journey traverses the world, and includes lengthy  episodes in Venice, Paris, Los Angeles, Switzerland- all critical places in  Stravinsky's history.  The pages of the book devoted to Vera Stravinsky,  wife, painter, and someone clearly especially loved by Robert Craft, that  appear toward the end of the volume after the detailing of Stravinsky's  funeral in Venice (of which there is a marvelous photo, the Orthodox  priestsin fierce array!), are lovely, loving and devoted, and worthy of  mention.  Craft's books are meat indeed for the Stravinskyphile, and even  the uncommitted admirer can find in this work (as in his 'Theme and  Variations', in the Dialogues, etc.) an epic chronicling of our time, and  will find sure residue of the world's becoming modern through the  uncompromising art of Igor Stravinsky.  Impossible to overstate either the  importance of this book as a testament, or the value of encountering it.	2000-09-08
US	51114497	R26P13GQBHAKKL	081121348X	153923586	Bread in the Wilderness (New Directions Classic)	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	Among Merton's Finest Books!	I commend New Directions for issuing a facsimile reprint of the original  of this valuable book.  Who would not say that here is a publishing company  of enduring and impeccable taste?  I have a copy of the original cloth  bound book- it is beautiful, and easily one of my top twenty favorite  books.  I believe this is the book that comes most surely from Merton the  poet.  His consideration of the Psalms is inspired; the language in this  book is as severe and ecstatic as are the Psalms themselves, and his  insight into their relevance is without peer.  The brevity of Merton's  exposition is part of its potency.  Nothing is wasted.  Like the Psalms  themselves, the veins of this book run deep in kingly rivers, announcing  the heart of God like a morning song.  Merton's interior acquisition of  that song is of epic intensity, yet simple as clean water.  I believe  &quot;Bread in the Wilderness&quot; surpasses even &quot;Seeds of  Contemplation&quot; in directness, common heart, and indeed artistic  beauty.  It's an indescribably beautiful book that moves, aches and rocks,  and leads one, ultimately, to the inmost core of revelation, which is,  after all, believability.  Merton's references to the Psalms can be traced  like a monk's thread throughout all of his writing, from the earliest books  up through the posthumously published Journals.  This book gives us a clear  understanding of how constantly faithful Thomas Merton remained not only to  the brilliant song of the Psalms themselves, but to the music of his own  exceeding heart.  And the woodcut Christ on the cover is so unfailingly  Cistercian!  This is a book that will live forever.	2000-09-06
US	51114497	R37O26L1OU25LM	0938077678	935726609	Fragrant Palm Leaves: Journals 1962-1966	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A life-giving source of joy!	I agree with every word of the review written by the Jerusalem reviewer  found on this page!  This slender volume contains much that could save the  world, indeed the profound beauty that emanates from the soul of this  revered teacher, Thich Nhat Hanh, is such that one is transformed by it  fundamentally each time one soaks up its light.  These journals, covering  especially those periods of his life that manifested for him tremendous  human strengths within himself, and from which he has conscientiously built  a kind of life-giving ark for the rest of us, are a joy to read, and read  again.  Everything Nhat Hanh writes is essential.  Nothing is wasted, or  wastefully passive.  Interior action is his watchword, and his own life's  example.  The milieu of violence and war that so influenced his early adult  life he has transformed into a life-giving teaching for humankind.  The  mark of the poet is everywhere in these pages- slaying the mediocre,  lifting up the discarded, transforming the lost.  One really cannot praise  adequately this unique and gentle volume.  If you seek to understand the  nature of suffering, its true character, the inevitability of its power to  redeem, and are unafraid of confronting the chagrin of your own  wastefulness and fearfulness, read this book.  It can only leave you freer.	2000-09-04
US	51114497	R326HY14AAEMRA	0877736324	478282398	The Wisdom of No Escape and the Path of Loving-Kindness	Books	5	126	138	N	N	Just marvelous!	This is my favorite Pema Chodron book! You can open its pages anywhere,  any time, in any frame of mind, and receive wide benefit to mind and heart.   It is spiritual teaching of the only useful kind, practical teaching  deliberately intended not to implant, but rather to  unsheathe what is  already native, but hidden.  Pema Chodron leaves one to oneself -the very  best teaching!-  and by the faintest strokes of wisdom, insight, and  practiced sensibilities leaves one higher, deeper, and more able to live  freely within oneself.  I think she is an extraordinary teacher, in the  very best tradition of Western Buddhist training.  If Gampo Abbey in Nova  Scotia is fortunate indeed to be gifted with this extraordinary woman,  likewise are we.  It seems I open that amazing turquoise cover (a more  illustrious blue than even the fine photo on this page indicates!) several  times a week.  It is a book one gratefully lives with.  I have given it to  friends, family, and even a few strangers!  I recommend it with confidence,  compassionate purpose, and indeed a great deal of joy.	2000-09-04
US	51114497	R38T8WCML7FGYM	0938077260	958315875	Old Path White Clouds: Walking in the Footsteps of the Buddha	Books	5	128	131	N	N	Thich Nhat Hanh's masterpiece!	If you read only one book on Buddhism, let it be this one.  Thich Nhat  Hanh is one of the world's great teachers, and this life of Shakyamuni  Buddha is his masterpiece.  Every chapter is a perfect gem, every idea put  forth bears witness not only to the noblest spiritual tradition, but to the  purity of heart of its author.  I have read this book many times over; it  has never failed to move me, never ceased to nourish within me immense  avenues of hope and understanding.  I think it is an extraordinary literary  accomplishment, however efficacious its spiritual impact.  Conversely, it  is clear that it derives at least some of its literary merit from the  profundity of the ideals which it transmits.  It is a clear, often  surprising, reverent and humane book, a classic of religious literature in  the finest tradition of a universal humanist aesthetic.  The breadth of  Nhat Hanh's gifts is apparent from the outset; the chapters on young  Gautama's princely early life, his marriage, the nascent inward  understanding that is his even before taking up the search for life's  hidden meaning, are so exquisitely composed that one finds oneself already  in possession of the truth to come, already one knows intimately the thirst  that takes the Buddha from the life he has known and loved, against the  wishes of his father's heart, against his love for and committment toward  his own wife and child.  This is literature of an everlasting kind.  The  art of narrative found here really has no equal in all of contemporary  religious literature.  Beautifully delicate line drawings accompany every  chapter like a faint temple bell, the language is as constant and profound  as a child's, able to encompass the sophisticated searching of the most  ardent doubter and the simple heart of the believer alike.  It is a truly  great book.  Art of this kind is surely what Gutenburg's invention was  intended for.  A perfect treasure.  Read it, and live.	2000-09-04
US	51114497	RT501QX27DZ05	0385482329	245728370	Red China Blues: My Long March From Mao to Now	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	A journalist's inside look at Mao's China!	Jan Wong, Chinese-Canadian journalist, has written a sterling book full of  compassion, hard choices, and a great deal of soul-searching. Wong's  romance with Mao's virgin communism leads her from an already exceptional  life in Canada to China, to Beijing University, through the anguish of the  Great Cultural Revolution, and safely out the other side.  Much more  enjoyable a read than &quot;Born Red&quot;, yet not as pungent as Anchee  Min's &quot;Red Azalea&quot;, &quot;Red China Blues&quot; (great title!)  definitely stands out among the dozens of books of reminiscences by those  who survived Mao's disastrous final years.  It's indeed interesting in  reading these various accounts of life in Mao's China, especially through  the Cultural Revolution, that we are being given so many irreplaceable  glances into that woeful time, each new book providing some important new  angle of understanding.  Wong is clearly a first-rate journalist, the prose  is succinct, heartfelt, and balanced.  Lots of informative and thoughtful  snapshots are included as well- Wong, her friends, some of the people who  figure prominently during her sojourn in her ancestral land.  A beautifully  finished chronicle of a hair-raising adventure by a woman of tremendous  courage, humor, and talent.  I enjoyed every bit of it!	2000-09-03
US	51114497	R1LID6JX20ZQL4	0679749853	3917971	Queen's Throat: Opera, Homosexuality, and the Mystery of Desire	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Intense!	This is daring, high-wire exploratory literature of the most beguiling kind.  Much more than a reach into the mystery-laden world of one aspect of  gay culture, though it is that as well, this is a book about desire, about  the fantastical meanings within music, about enslavement and redemption.  I  read the book in one sitting.  It's a devastating piece of prose writing,  it gleams and pulls you awake with pins!  It is a riveting exposition of  the extravagance of sexuality, of sexual desire as metaphor for  psychological neglect, an enticing and bewitching brew of fantasy and  sorrow.  Koestenbaum is in sublime command of his thought, the language is  both startling and voluptuous, operatic, really.  In Chapter 4, entitled  &quot;The Callas Cult&quot;, he begins one paragraph &quot;Worshipping  Callas, am I behaving like a vulture?&quot;  After thoroughly examining the  widespread, unreasoned obsession with Maria Callas, he concludes &quot;But  it's impossible to circumscribe love.  As a commentator, one can only  operate like a skylight at a premiere, advertising a location.&quot;  The  mastery of prose throughout is never anything short of brilliant, and is  often ecstatic, so that the book's 'colors' dip inevitably toward the  mystical, the ineffable.  I think it is a complete triumph, a masterfully  accomplished piece of unforgettable literature.  Highest recommendation.	2000-09-03
US	51114497	R111O30Z8N0NX	0930066022	507326160	001: The Wild White Goose	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An intimate look at a spiritual giant!	These two volumes are worth their weight in gold!  Together, they cover a  period of nearly eight years in the life of Roshi Jiyu-Kennett, an  Englishwoman, and one of the first Western women to successfully train in  the monasteries of Japan.  The first volume, titled 'The Diary of a Zen  Trainee' covers her difficult early training up to the time of her  priesthood, her constant physical maladies, the incredible rigor and  hardship of her stay in the monastery of her teacher, Keizan Zenji, and her  wretched treatment at the hands of the Japanese monks.  Kennett is a  natural diarist, and a clean and direct writer.  The second volume,  &quot;Diary of a Female Zen priest&quot; is even more engaging than the  first; her Dharma transmission, an expansive look at her time spent as  priest of her own tiny temple, her relationships with the Japanese people  and clerics, everything is composed with insight, no superfluity, and  plenty of humor.  The two volumes conclude just prior to her founding  Shasta Abbey, a still flourishing Soto Zen abbey and training center  situated at the foot of Mt. Shasta, in California.  It seems impossible to  praise these volumes sufficiently.  Roshi Jiyu-Kennett was a woman, priest,  musician, intellectual, inveterate Westerner, and a person of extraordinary  courage, determination, skill and spirituality.  She was, as well, a  naturally gifted spiritual teacher, and these diaries are among the most  enlightening records of the transforming of a human soul that I've ever  encountered.  I wish so much that she had diaried in the same way her  experiences as Abbess of Shasta Abbey - what an increase of treasure it  would have afforded us all.	2000-09-03
US	51114497	RPNAL9XWRFO30	0195086341	782315050	Bertrand Russell: A Political Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Russell's foibles!	I recall with pride the sure comfort, during the years of struggle against  the American war in Vietnam, afforded by Bertrand Russell's pungent  opposition to the same war for the same reasons, all of his astonishing  intellectual gifts poised like a sword against the daily lies and betrayal  of ideals perpetrated by Washington.  While Russell's mathematical exegeses  are beyond me, the thrust of his intellectual activity has remained  attractive.  This concise book (indeed thin, but not incomplete), while not  diminishing that attraction, comes a bit like a diatribe exposing those  elements of Russell's character that were no doubt conflicted, and yet were  more likely an integral part of his intellectual capacity.  Ryan's writing  is informative, but not terribly appreciative.  One feels distanced by  Ryan's doubts, rather than educated by his conclusions.  Clearly Russell  was a complex fellow, inconstant and, in a certain respect, embittered by a  life of singularity; it seems however that Ryan does little to penetrate  the conflicts down to the bone of understanding them and integrating them  into the whole picture of Russell's turbulent life, rather he presents the  externals as elements sufficiently interesting in and of themselves, a  disservice, I think, to one with a legacy as lingering and controversial as  that of Bertrand Russell.  The prose is intelligent and clear, and the  volume is a typically attractive Oxford Univ. Press offering, small and  supple, the presentation suiting the book's tone and content perfectly.  I  recommend this volume, but it's not everything it could have been.	2000-09-03
US	51114497	R10NPICG88KJGU	0679427406	412860025	American Culture, American Tastes: Social Change and the 20th Century	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An excellent read!	I picked this book up on a whim, and found it an interesting mix; a  somewhat anti-academic treatise written by a flourishing academic, filled  with tremendous flashes of genuine insight into the perennial American  ethos as it sifts out in our culture.  Written in an engaging style, Kammen  is clearly devoted to his own intellectual gifts but not overcome by them.   His dissection of the impact of television on modern culture is  particularly adept, if only the creators of TV programming possessed this  much understanding of the medium in which they work!  The pace of the book  is invitingly brisk, and while it is thick going in a few places, it's  mostly quite readable and makes its arguments in a manner that is concise,  cogent, and to-the-point.  Despite the somewhat dry title (although the  Reginald Marsh painting on the cover really cinched my purchase of the  book!), this is a penetrating and important look at the direction of  American culture.  Kammen's take on multi-culturalism in America seems  somewhat bleached, and his occasional ruminations on cultural life played  out vis-a-vis the increasingly virulent class war that rumbles just under  the surface of American life seem conservative and not always informed,  perhaps closeted a bit by his academic background.  One other thing- the  illustrations in the book are beautifully chosen, including Rockwell,  Benton, and a positively magical drawing of Warhol by Jamie Wyeth.  I'd  never seen it before and it alone is worth the price of the book!	2000-09-03
US	51114497	R3DEOHFTH3SD00	0060654821	678970051	Dancing in the Water of Life : Seeking Peace in the Hermitage	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Perfect Merton!	This fifth volume of Merton's Journals hits a home run, an analogy Thomas  Merton would probably relish.  I've read volumes 1 through 5, and here  Merton hits his stride.  The diarist in Merton contributes nearly  everything within his vast sight and makes it important and touching.  The  lengthier review on this page covers the base ground admirably.  One of the  really interesting aspects of these journals is the inadvertently given  bibliography of Merton's own reading material, everything from Elias  Canetti to Barth to D. T. Suzuki!  These volumes give us a whole and  uncompromising look at Merton's innermost sensibilities, apparent in his  formal oeuvre, but turned over and examined like a winter leaf in these  journals.  I think the various editors of these volumes, a different editor  for each, deserve high praise for the consistency of tone in their editing,  one volume to the next; a job done wisely and well.  It is as well a  tribute to the consistency of Merton's path over the years.  He was a true  monk, an authentic thinker in the best tradition, and a heck of a writer.   When Thomas Merton writes, he never loses that clear-sky-with-stars timbre  of voice, spending his real humility like gold, and awakening all the  sleeping people.  The more I read these journals the more I miss him.   Noble and unforgettable.	2000-09-02
US	51114497	R32LR2FEUMONZK	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	4	31	51	N	Y	Clear-headed look at the papacy!	Impeccable scholarship and brisk, concise prose are the drawing cards of Garry Wills' new book.  In the blink of an eye, Mr Wills dissects several  of the more onerous fantasies of the modern papacy.  In this post-Christian  age, Mr. Wills takes up the case for papal reform more effectively than did  the protestant savants in the ages of faith.  The sections on the Church's  relations with Jews, on pedophile priests and their enabling heirarchies,  and on birth control are especially telling.  It takes a Catholic to write  a book this clear-headed about the papacy.  Garry Wills' Catholicism gives  him not only the authority, but indeed the courage, to make a substantive  contribution to the discussion of these matters moral, doctrinal, and,  finally, human.  And substance is indeed the outcome of Mr. Wills' frontal  assault on the so-called deceitful structures of the modern papacy.   Especially interesting is the conclusive parallel drawn between the mindset  of Pius IX and that of John Paul II.  Indeed, in this age of the puzzling  popular `canonisation' of the living pope, it is good to be reminded of the  face behind the mask.  Wills' continual references to the writings of  Raymond Brown, a theologian from the little leagues, is annoying at times,  but he uses the particular references chosen to good effect in making his  own arguments.  Catholics should be proud to have such thoughtfulness as  that displayed by Garry Wills working on their behalf.  Unfortunately,  viewing some of the reviews on this page, it sadly seems still true that  nothing confounds the Catholic, especially the American Catholic, like a  good romp at the papacy.  Nevertheless, this is an important book, and one  I suspect that will more than stand the test of time.  Highest  recommendation!	2000-09-02
US	51114497	RMX10BC366WV	0930066200	858894262	Zen is Eternal Life	Books	5	26	27	N	N	first-class scholarship by a beloved teacher!	This is a beautiful book by one of the progenitors of Zen in the West.   The late Roshi Jiyu-Kennett, an Englishwoman who trained unstoppably(!) in  Japan under Chisan Zenji, late abbot of Sojiji, indeed the first Western  woman to do so, and received her transmission in Japan before coming to  America and ultimately founding Shasta Abbey, a still flourishing Soto Zen  abbey and training center at the foot of Mt. Shasta, of which she remained  Abbess until her recent death.  This book is both a manual of doctrine and  practice, as well as a foray into historical aspects of Soto Zen.   Everything is covered here- liturgy, training, practice, enlightenment, the  transformations of Zen necessary to its success in the West, and the book  is highly readable.  Jiyu-Kennett is a gifted teacher taking us around  every corner with ease, and even humor.  Divided into three 'books', the  third is a fascinating look at the teachings of her own teacher, Keizan  Zenji;  the chapters on the seventeen Ancestors is wonderful prose in  itself, and an enlightening bit of teaching.  Highest recommendation!   Jiyu-Kennett's Japanese diaries (&quot;The Wild, White Goose&quot; in 2  volumes), written during her training and subsequent early priesthood in  Japan, are indispensable books as well.  Her immense intellect and  unconquerable spirit are vividly apparent, and even more intimately given  than in this excellent book.	2000-09-02
US	51114497	R1IWWC3H5PK6LZ	0316507172	962121805	Anastasia: The Riddle of Anna Anderson	Books	4	7	11	N	Y	what a remarkable story!	Kurth's satifsying book on Anna Anderson indeed leaves one puzzled in  light of the subsequent DNA testing.  I read this book before the tests  were made, found it convincing, and still do.  It seems that a more  interesting question than whether this woman was the Grand Duchess  Anastasia, is the question of why an obscure Polish woman would undertake a  life of overwhelming suffering by claiming to be whom she apparently was  not, since, whatever the truth, this affair was more than a charade  performed by a charlatan.  There remains a mystical element deep within the  mystery of Anna Anderson, one which I suspect DNA testing is incapable of  addressing.  Kurth's exposition of his subject is well done, if a bit  over-engaged.  His love for the mystery of this woman over the mystery of  her identity, for the recovery of the lost, and an almost fin-de-siecle  ministering to the Romanov legend, makes the discourse a little florid in  spots.  But the prose is generally kempt, Kurth has a genuine intelligence,  and the story is a captivating one.  Kurth's humility in face of the  declarations of science is admirable and makes one the more sympathetic,  and baffled, by the outcome.  This is a first-rate read, however, and I  suspect history has not entirely played out the story of Anna-Anastasia.	2000-09-01
US	51114497	R7XUXS1TDADHR	0802130135	935267629	Our Lady of the Flowers	Books	5	19	28	N	Y	like a narcotic!	Somebody should make an opera of this book!  I've loved this book since high school, perhaps more than all the others!  Genet as always is like a  dark narcotic; impossible to shake, and constantly ecstatic.  His genius is  like a kind of suffocating honey on the page, it pulls your heart out.   This edition has a substantive Introduction by Sartre, whose &quot;Saint  Genet&quot; is one of the seminal books of the late twentieth century.  If  you've never read Genet, you've got something coming!  What is there to say  about literature of this standing?  Read it and be ennobled.	2000-08-30
US	51114497	R1MC3HH1ETQOVI	1555532284	118810962	Montserrat Caballe: Casta Diva	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	This effort isn't worthy of Caballe!	The authors of this book are worshipful, but that's about all.  What a  disappointment, especially as it's the only extant full-length biography of  one of the colossal singers of the twentieth century.  The first third of  the book concerns itself with Caballe's beginnings, and for the most part  is interesting enough, at least to the hopelessly seduced fan, but it soon  becomes a week by week itinerary diary of the most mundane kind.  Madame  sang such and such at this place, caught a plane to such and where, sang  this and that at such and such opera house....on and on.  Only occasionally  is there even an apparent flash of genuine interest on the part of the  authors.  A writer of conscience could certainly create a worthy biography  of Montserrat Caballe, after all, her body of work is the stuff of legends,  but this half-cooked effort really demeans the biographer's art.  The  elements of abiding interest surrounding Caballe, the voice itself, her  miraculously docile character, among a number of other standout elements  are treated shabbily in this book.  A useful complete discography is  appended at the end.	2000-08-30
US	51114497	R1BUT2QIUZQQ67	0691044651	440759267	Shostakovich	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Not enough for a Shostaholic!	This is a good book, but perhaps not a great book.  An affectionate book,  yet a book that seems somehow to hold itself distant from its subject,  Dmitri Shostakovich.  Probably those not familiar with Shostakovich's life  will find in this book a comprehensive study of the composer and his  milieu; written in a 'round-table' style that utilises scores of  reminiscences and contributions from artists and friends who knew  Shostakovich, a complete enough picture is given of who Shostakovich was,  yet, for me, something is missing.  For all its massiveness, its wealth of  information, its affection, the author seems incapable of revealing the  essence of Shostakovich's life and work;  the telling of someone's life,  and a genuine expression of the meaning of that life are distinctly  different things.  For all the controversy surrounding Shostakovich's  &quot;Testimony&quot; (most of it unbearably inconsequential), and despite  its thinness compared to this giant tome, it nonetheless is a book alive  with the presence of Shostakovich, something glaringly missing from this  effort.  This is a warm book, but perhaps not a true enough one to do  justice to one of the greatest composers, certainly the greatest  symphonist, of the twentieth century.  For those of us fortunate enough to  find ourselves Shostakovich addicts, Shostaholics, as it were, this  well-made book is simply not enough- not true enough, not close enough, not  intense enough an experience to match our love of this man's imcomparable  music.	2000-08-26
US	51114497	R1F7HTDB9M1BSB	0385086016	563942861	The Collected Poems of Theodore Roethke	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	A 20th Century Giant!	This collection contains  Roethke's \\"Words for the Wind\\", one of the great c20 collections by any poet. Everything Roethke touched came instantly to life. He's ignored for his classicism, so was Ravel. No matter. When it comes time to decide what a poem is, they'll turn to Roethke. The poems from Words for the Wind deal in heart stopping beauty, refinement of form, and the pleasures of a uniquely great mind in play.  Dont miss it.	2000-08-26
US	51114497	R3FNOGKML00VD0	0691017700	494531778	Zen and Japanese Culture	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	a rewarding classic	A towering book of scholarship from the mind of a Japanese Zen master with an almost mystical mastery of  English prose. One needn't be a student of Buddhism or particularly interested in the history of Zen and its historical impact to benefit mightily from this book. It's beautiful literature! The passages (in two generous chapters) on Zen and Swordsmanship stand with the best in English literature. Suzuki's perspective is broad and inclusive, if entirely his own, and includes the historic relationship of Zen to nature, art, haiku, and more narrowly the Japanese Tea  Ceremony. It's a rewarding book that only deeps with each reading. Unconditional recommendation.	2000-08-26
US	51114497	R2FOJVONWMWCZ5	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	4	17	26	N	Y	An important book!	Impeccable scholarship and brisk, concise prose are the drawing cards of  Garry Wills' new book.  In the blink of an eye, Mr Wills dissects several  of the more onerous fantasies of the modern papacy.  In this post-Christian  age, Mr. Wills takes up the case for papal reform more effectively than did  the protestant savants in the ages of faith.  The sections on the Church's  relations with Jews, on pedophile priests and their enabling heirarchies,  and on birth control are especially telling.  It takes a Catholic to write  a book this clear-headed about the papacy.  Garry Wills' Catholicism gives  him not only the authority, but indeed the courage, to make a substantive  contribution to the discussion of these matters moral, doctrinal, and,  finally, human.  And substance is indeed the outcome of Mr. Wills' frontal  assault on the deceitful structures of the modern papacy.  Especially  interesting is the conclusive parallel drawn between the mindset of Pius IX  and that of John Paul II.  Indeed, in this age of the puzzling popular  `canonisation' of the living pope, it is good to be reminded of the face  behind the mask.  Wills' continual references to the writings of Raymond  Brown, a theologian from the little leagues, is annoying at times, but he  uses the particular references chosen to good effect in making his own  arguments.  Catholics should be proud to have such thoughtfulness as that  displayed by Garry Wills working on their behalf.  Unfortunately, viewing  some of the reviews on this page, it sadly seems still true that nothing  confounds the Catholic, especially the American Catholic, like a good romp  at the papacy.  Nevertheless, this is an important book, and one I suspect  that will more than stand the test of time.  Highest recommendation!	2000-08-24
US	51114497	R3MOMAHZDKXDB4	0156949547	153388665	Waters Of Siloe (Harvest/Hbj Book)	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Paradisus Claustralis!	This is surely one of the warmest, most intelligent, most readable works  of scholarship ever composed!  The not inconsequential history of the  Cistercian Order, the men and women that have peopled it like robins  arriving and defining their eternal Spring, and at the same time, the  sacred history of one man's soul are all found here in a text beautifully  composed with order, entrancing prose, and the humility of true faith.  This is my favorite Merton book, I think because it is so full of his new  love!  Written in 1949, &quot;The Waters of Siloe&quot; is rivaled only by  &quot;The Sign of Jonas&quot; for its beauty and depth of meaning.  Layers  of beauty and solitude pervade every page, taking the reader into Merton's  own heart, really, into the deep still water of his life as a priest and  Trappist monk.  Merton's astounding facility as a writer is always  subordinate to the searching of his own heart, so that even while he writes  like a prophet, he plays at no pretense of knowledge or superior  understanding, keeping his formidable gifts focused on the object of his  love and study, his Christ and the monastic vocation.  Such a delicate  balance only shows forth his literary genius all the more, yet leaves such  a sweetness in the heart that one wants to give up all literature for the  love of God, whatever one's natural inclincations, whatever one's  tradition.  Merton's is a rare and matchless talent, the gift of true  understanding, really, and never used more wisely or more warmly than in  &quot;The Waters of Siloe&quot;.  If you are a seeker who desires to know  what it is to enter upon the path, to suffer and be glad, read this book.  There isn't another like it.	2000-08-21
US	51114497	R2TW2G6UZ23JFW	0931892678	300568399	Riding the Tiger: Twenty Years on the Road- Risks and Joys of Bringing Tibetan Buddhism to the West	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A Fine Dharma Travelogue!	Lama Ole Nydahl is a unique figure in modern Buddhist history -first Western student of the Black Hat lama, H.H. the XVIth Gyalwa Karmapa, married, lama 'without robes', and spiritual figure personally chosen by  the Karmapa to teach and make foundations in his name- and 'Riding the  Tiger' is filled to overflowing with his particular energies and gifts.  It  is a galloping book that takes the reader around the world, inviting him in  for a close-up look at the making of a Buddhist center for meditation and  study, and Lama Ole has successfully started over one hundred such centers.   And a deep look, as well, at the nature of Buddhism in the West, how it  has been transplanted, how it has flourished.  With due respect to another  of the reviews on this page, Lama Ole's defense of Diamond Way Buddhism and  of the singular wishes of the XVIth Karmapa, and his willingness to discuss  the schism that has taken place within the Kagyu tradition, with two  reincarnations of the Karmapa presently recognized by two differing  factions, is certainly not childish, nor does the conflict itself  necessarily reflect negatively on the Kagyu lineage.  It is to Lama Ole's  credit that while focusing his attention on the spreading of the Dharma, he  does not shy away from the controversy.  Perhaps that is because he holds  the truth of this historical situation in his mind and heart, and therefore  need not fear the light of day when looking at this controversy.  It is  certainly interesting that the 'other' 17th Karmapa, the one 'recognized'  by Beijing, has recently escaped over the mountains to Dharamsala!  Did not  the Lord Buddha say &quot;I show you suffering and the ending of  suffering?&quot;  This is a magical book and a magical ride!	2000-08-01
US	51114497	R1J98QSYBMYNL2	0880641797	180881835	Unfinished Journey: Twenty Years Later	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An authentic life!	Here is an authentic man of genius!  To read Yehudi Menuhin is an experience comparable to hearing him play the Chaconne, itself an experience that bears no easy comparisons.  Every page of this book, and  indeed of any number of his writing excursions (the magnificent essay  'Peace and Culture' given by him in his association with UNESCO and the  interviews with David Dubal come to mind), bursts with a vital intelligence  and egalitarian humanity uncommon to modern man.  This is a revised edition  of his original memoirs, updated to the present.  Everything is here, the  profound thought of one of the truly humane artists of the twentieth  century, the magnificent story of his family, his parents and gifted  sisters, his early life, the splendid accomplishments in the true service  of humanity that have marked his later life so deeply.  One is compelled to  comment upon the nature of the family into which he was born, so perfect an  incubator for one such as Yehudi Menuhin, an authentic genius requiring an  authentic environment in which to develop.  Menuhin doesn't disappoint the  reader, he amply and brilliantly illumines the story of his family in a  devoted and balanced account of lives of high human principles fully lived  , and proof of the essential role his family played in his life is clear in  the full measure of this man's life and work.  Anyone with an interest in  authentic human philosophy, in an examination of those elements that  characterize the authentic role of the artist in society, will find this  book a joy!  Nothing forced here, nothing of pretense.  This book is but  the calm and elegant persuasion of a consummate human being and a genuine  artist.	2000-07-29
US	51114497	RVSJLLKQ42U1J	0195106741	344776538	The Memoirs of Fray Servando Teresa de Mier (Library of Latin America)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	beauty and severity	An extraordinary book. One of Oxford University Press' 'Library of Latin America' series, translated from the Spanish by Helen Lane, here is a tome worthy of high praise. Fray Servando  Teresa de Mier y Noriega (Mexico, 1763-1827), persecuted by the Inquisition for thirty years for his challenge to the colonial mentality and his  willingness \\"to play an active role in movements of  emancipation,\\"  Written in the Inquisitor's  prisons, this is a topsy-turvy book where Europeans are the barbarians. Refreshing! De Mier was famed in his own time as a scholar and thinker, &indeed these 240 pages unsheathe a remarkable man, revealing with a novelist's  succinct eye the true nature of the world and its passing, and our time in it. Impossible to overstate the beauty and severity of a spirituality in high bloom. Recommended.	2000-07-27
US	51114497	R2KEFXUAFUY3R	0811205703	561072144	The Asian Journal of Thomas Merton (New Directions Books)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	merton lives!	I never tire of reading Thomas Merton. The Asian Journal is a poignant and tireless encampment with one of the remarkable men of letters of the 20th century. Colored throughout with Merton's search for a place of greater solitude (his dissatisfaction on many levels with the cheese factory his beloved Gethsemani abbey had become being well known for some time before his death) -the redwoods of California, possibly Alaska- as the journal progresses one begins to feel in his words a kind of prescient kinship with his own accidental death, occurring in Bangkok before he had completed his Asian pilgrimage. Worthy appendices - the characteristic sweetness of his informal talk on monasticism given at Calcutta, and his lecture on Marxism and Monastic Perspectives with its prophetic last sentence \\"So I will disappear\\". Free of polemics, giving in its human searching, this is once again essential Merton.	2000-03-25
