US	51127281	R2LNWMBI22H69U	0670885797	452916029	Borges: A Life	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Dreaming of a weaver of dreams	Borges famously wrote that all he'd been was a weaver of dreams.  Williamson's life of Borges shows him to have dreamt copiously through his long existence.  He was a wreckless public speaker who loved to drop bombs in interviews and was unafraid to court controversy.  He started his literary life as an ensign of the avant-garde and a bolshevik sympathiser.  He morphed into a cultural nationalist, an admirer of the cut-throats of the barriadas, the knife-men of the Pampas and of old-fashioned milongas and tangos (he even wrote a few).  He was remarkably clear-sighted about the awfulness of Argentinian fascism, headed by the indestructible General Peron and was a philo-semite.  He later endorsed several dictatorships both in Argentina and abroad because he regarded them as the lesser evil (and he might have been right, although it probably cost him his Nobel prize).  But he opposed the torture and vanishings of the Dirty War and he decried the manipulation of popular sentiment that General Galtieri achieved when he chose to invade the Malvinas (Falklands).  He ended his life as mystical agnostic and chose to die in his second fatherland, Geneva. <br /> <br />Having read several Borges biographies I was surprised at the considerable links between his life (especially his sentimental life) and his work.  Williamson teases the meaning of many obscure lines in Borges's work, by showing how they emanated from specific experiences, usually negative.  This approach, while frequently enlightening, occasionally has its limitations.  This biographer attempted to show that virtually everything Borges ever wrote , said or thought (at least until he met Maria Kodama, in the early 1970s) was a consequence of a battle in his head, between his mother (\\"the sword of honor\\") and his father (\\"the dagger of the compadrito\\").  While this framework can be enlightening, Williamson is so exhaustingly repetitive at flogging this horse, that the reader ends up feeling rather like someone whois accosted in a bar by a tiresome drunk who just goes on and on about some pet peeve.  An insight is not a worldview, Mr. Williamson!  Also, some of the chapters repeat themselves almost word for word, as if though the author had forgotten what he wrote before.  The reader, alas, like Funes the Memorious, cannot forget and is therefore tempted to gloss over these bits.  I was also surprised not to see any reference to Naipaul's essay \\"The Return of Eva Peron\\".  Naipaul met Borges, interviewed him and also reviewed his work in a very lucid fashion.  Surely the thoughts of one of the greatest living writers about one of his predecessors would have been of some interest? <br /> <br />The conclusion is that Borges definitive life in English (such as Boyd's life of Nabokov) remains to be written.  While that happens, this is a better place to start than most.  I give the book four stars because it has rekindled my old love for the Master's work.  I think I'll dip into it in the next few weeks.	2005-06-12
US	51127281	R2Q7AXJ40K9NSI	1931082723	140297629	H. P. Lovecraft: Tales (Library of America)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	A must have for Lovecraft fans	As soon as I read the reviews of this book in the NYT Book Review I rushed to order it.  I do own the multi-volume Del Rey edition with the lurid covers and the yellowish paper, and two volumes of Lovecraft's works annotated by Joshi.  But for convenience and style nothing beats this single volume \\"Tales\\" published by the Library of America.  All the canonical works are here, plus more than a few for padding (Lovecraft just didn't live long enough to create a significant corpus of key works- which is actually good, because the casual reader may still be familiar with everything worthwhile he wrote).  As many have said before me, the editor should have been S.T. Joshi, who knows old H.P. better than anyone else alive.  I can't for the life of me guess why Peter Straub was chosen for this prestigious undertaking if a real expert like Joshi was available.  But this is not a serious problem.  Lovecraft should be enjoyed on his own, and sometimes Joshi's notes are too obvious and they drag the reader down.  Any literate person can read Lovecraft without any notes.  What we needed was a smallish hard-cover with onion paper that can pack 800 pages of legible print into a small, light frame.<br /><br />I won't comment on the Tales themselves, other than to say that mocking H.P.'s style as overblown or overeager, and ridiculing his affair with adjetives is like demeaning poetry because it doesn't say clearly what it means, or making fun of Raymong Chandler because of his unrealistic dialogue and impossible plots.  Lovecraft brought the Gothic horror genre to its peak.  Within the conventions of this genre nobody (and I mean *nobody*) can touch Lovecraft.	2005-04-27
US	51127281	R3PEASBPTRPWMV	0553273914	934590882	The House of the Spirits	Books	5	11	13	N	N	I have read it at last, and loved it	I am ashamed to say that I put off reading this book for over 20 years.  In Colombia, when it came out it was popular mainly among university girls of a leftish persuasion, one that I did not share.  The author's last name was not an inducement to sympathy.  My own experience of our own Marxist barbarians (the FARC, the ELN, the EPL and many others) rather put me off against it.  Surely Pinochet was not a nice person but he was preferable to the reds. <br /> <br />Besides my own ideological antipathy, the book was described as sub-Garcia-Marquian \\"magical realism\\", and I figured that reading the big guy was enough to become acquainted with that school of writing. <br /> <br />But a week ago I read a remarkably lucid review by Christopher Hitchen in the online version of Britain's Guardian.  I took it up and didn't put it down until it was finished. <br /> <br />First for the bad part (there is always that).  The book is indeed Garcia-Marquian in its first chapters.  There are several internal inconsistencies that I won't relate.  The style is a bit too cute for my taste at times. <br /> <br />But these are irrelevant quibbles.  The story is engrossing.  The lucidness of the author in portraying the motivations of the various characters is refreshing.  This is indeed not \\"a politicised morality play\\", but rather an elegy for a whole country.  The epilogue's message is life-affirming and does represent the spirit of current Chile and its current prosperous, democratic incarnation.  It also confirms my view that undermining democracy through military intervention to crush the Communists (or other subversives) is rather like burning one's house to get ride of some mice.  And that ideas are merely abstractions and that only people really matter.  Those are fairly basic notions, but in my experience they tend to be set aside quite often. <br /> <br />I will read Allende's other books, and through this review I thank her for this one.  And I hope that, some day, my countrywill too overcome its demons and that, like Chile, Colombia will remember the bad old days with a shudder of disgust and the will not to let them return.	2005-03-10
US	51127281	RBI47Q6B2LC11	0805066624	585238237	Pol Pot: Anatomy of a Nightmare (John MacRae Books)	Books	5	73	78	N	N	There is no honor or greaness here, just butchery	Philip Short refers to his book on Mao in his preface to \\"Pol Pot:Anatomy to a Massacre\\" and, while acknowledging Mao's extraordinary beastliness (the man was probably responsible for over 50 million deaths) he highlights Mao's pretentions to greatness not unlike Napoleon's or Alexander's.  That is not the case with Pol Pot.  He did not fight an honorable war against a brutal invader, like Mao did with the Japanese.  Instead, he led to his Cambodia's occupation by the hated Vietnamese, who had been his paymasters for a long time.  Pol Pot did not succeed in brutally modernizing his country's industry, like Stalin in the Soviet Union or Mao in China.  Instead, he pulled it right back into the stone age.  Like his worst predecessors in genocide, he never learned from his mistakes.  Instead, he kept his habit of ordering executions, a habit which eventually led to his imprisonment by his surviving henchmen (who feared for their lives) and some sort of trial.  And his corpse was not preserved like Mao's or Lenin's.  Instead, it was burnt with old tires and mattresses. <br /> <br />Short's book would have been very short (and uninteresting) indeed if he had confined himself to Pol Pot.  Instead, he wrote a veritable tableau of Cambodian history from WWII to our days.  1950s Cambodia comes across as a Ruritarian kingdom ruled by the beguiling Norodom Sihanouk.  Sihanouk is one of history's true survivors (the man is still around!).  One would need to look to Mitterrand or Fidel Castro for equivalent types who were able to survive and even thrive in impossible conditions, turning their alliances as they saw fit with no sense of shame.  Sihanouk is in a fact a much more attractive character than Pol Pot, who is opaque, a mere cypher in some ways. <br /> <br />Saloth Sar, who would later become Pol Pot, came from what might be regarded as the upper middle class (his sister was a concubine to a Cambodian king- not Norodom), although his family wasn't rich.  He was a mediocrestudent, and in many ways he would be a mediocrity all his life.  His strength was his inscrutability.  He kept a constant Buddha-like smile, and he never lifted his voice even when ordering the execution of close associates.  The Cambodian Communist Party (later known as the Khmer Rouges) was fostered by Vietnamese logistical support, although Pol Pot's career was a long attempt to break free of the control of this \\"fraternal\\" party.  The Communists' goals were fostered by the incompetent intervention of greater powers, some colonial, like France, some regional like Thailand and Vietnam, some global, like the US, the Soviet Union and China.  Virtually all of them (most without realizing it) did their utmost to help Pol Pot reach power and wreck Cambodia.  Particularly obtuse was American intervention in helping strongman Lon Nol in overthrowing Sihanouk.  This threw the mercurial Sihanouk into Chinese hands and then turned him into Pol Pot's associate, helping to legitimize Khmer Rouge presence among royalist and superstitious peasants.   <br /> <br />Short writes that Pol Pot's brutality was purely Cambodian (which should be annoying to all armchair Buddhists in the US and Europe) and that his actions were not caused in any meaningful way by the American intervention.  Be that as it may, it is hard to image Cambodia falling to Pol Pot's disorganized hordes if Sihanouk had remained in power.  Short also writes that the Khmer's millennial dictatorship, which was much more extreme than anything seem previously, except perhaps the Paris commune in 1870-1871 or Mnster under Jan van Leiden in 1535, was also quite chaotic.  Brutality was entirely random and without reason or rhyme.  For all Pol Pot's paranoia and total disregard for human niceties, he was unable to turn the Khmer Rouge into a unified iron-clad party, like Stalin did with the Soviets.  Even after his brutal purges, the party presence was highly regional.  Also, the Khmer's racial policies against the Cham (muslim Cambodians) and the Vietnamese were worthy of Milosevic or Saddam Hussein.  Pol Pot truly married the worst in both communist and nazi rules. <br /> <br />Pol Pot's life was unmarred by honor or greatness.  Short brings to life the extraordinary circumstances that allowed this ordinary man to unleash the hounds of hell among his countrymen.  I only regret that he wasn't tried like a war criminal and hanged from the tallest steeple in Angkor Vat.  And some of his associates (like Hun Sen) are still in power.	2005-02-18
US	51127281	RXARZK152BHO0	0393049744	642660655	The Victorians	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Best taken in small doses	Wilson's book is best taken in small doses, rather like his articles in London's Daily Telegraph.  The book is a huge panoramic survey of the years of Victoria's reign (1837-1901).  It is mainly chronological and organized around large themes such as art, novelists, poetry, the Empire, politics, social mores.  It is a bit of curate's egg (partly good, partly bad).  The actual curate's egg cartoon was published in Punch on 9 November 1895, and so the reference is also apposite.  The good part is the flavor Wilson brings to the dry facts.  He is full of wonderful anecdotes about characters and episodes, usually in parentheticals, which really liven up the broth.  He does have an encyclopedic knowledge of victoriana and is not afraid to ladle it out.  The bad part is the fact that it is simply not possible to give a coherent semblance of Victorian Britain in just one book, even a thick one.  All but the most central characters (like Gladstone or Disraeli) merit at most a couple of pages, and there are so many of them it's hard to keep them all straight, even when one is familiar with the subject. This gives the book a more than passing resemblance to a telephone directory, where one is introduced to a cast a hundreds (or thousands), but few stick in one's mind. Perhaps Wilson should have tried a device such as depicting events around the main members of two significant families, such as Figes did in his great \\"Natasha's Dance\\", which allowed him to cover three hundred years of Russian cultural history with a certain modicum of coherence lacking in Wilson's book.  Absent a clear organizing scheme, the book is a bit chaotic and not an easy read unless taken in small bites.    Having said this, I enjoyed Wilson's retakes of some personages who were absolutely thrashed by Lytton Strachey in his delightfully bitchy \\"Eminent Victorians\\".  I particularly liked seeing the mercurial Cardinal Manning shown as an intelligent, visionary man (he was fully aware that the future of the Church lay in supporting democratic politics and taking the side of the poor, and he did it himself by promoting trade unionism and Irish home rule) rather than as the nasty careerist Strachey describes.  In all likelihood both Wilson and Strachey are partly correct in their descriptions of the Cardinal, but Wilson's view is more sympathetic.    I didn't much like Wilson's constant apologies about the racial attitudes of the Victorians.  Those views were of their time, and there's no need to keep harping on it.  Anachronistic smugness is a bit jarring.  Moreover, I believe he should have been stronger in his defense of the positive side of the Empire, which was a greatly civilizing force, and the precedent for the current international law system.  The British Victorians, instead of merely expoliating the natives (like the Dutch or the Belgians) did work for their betterment.  Men like Messieurs Nehru and Mandela may only be seen as the rightful heirs to the best side of both the native and colonial inheritances.    I would have given this book 3 1/2 stars, but the option is not available.	2005-02-12
US	51127281	R2KG7VEMR3U1FV	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Flawed, but fun	Although Mr Ruiz Zaf&oacute;n has published many other books, this is his first one to become a favorite.  In many ways it seems like a first book.  Other reviewers have said that it is overlong.  I agree.  Dickens can write an 800 page book that yet is shorter than might have been.  This book suggests that this is not Ruiz-Zaf&oacute;n's case.<br /><br />The plot as such can't be faulted.  The book starts and ends with the same image: a boy and his father approaching an old building in old Barcelona, through the vanishing night fog.  Many of the characters are excellent, particularly the tortured Julian Carax, and his nemesis, the police inspector.  Fermin is also fun, but sometimes a bit too cute for an adult book.  Barcelona is nicely portrayed in this story.  Perhaps a map for non-Catalans would have been nice.  The architecture is well-portrayed, in this neo-Gothic tale.<br /><br />So what are the defficiencies?  Some characters (such as the blind pianist to whom Daniel, the protagonist reads, or Beatriz's brother, and even Daniel's father) don't really come together.  They appear to me quite underused given their potential.  In this sense, Ruiz is more an \\"atmosphere\\" type of author, rather than a \\"character\\" guy (like Dickens) or a \\"plot\\" guy (like Umberto Eco, to who he has been likened, somewhat spuriously).  Noting a likeness to Borges is a bit insulting to the Argentinian sage.  Not all books featuring enormous librabries are Borgesian.  The book has also several factual mistakes, the most jarring of which, to me, was that Bogota was in Venezuela.  Although Caracas was once a Colombian city, Bogota was never a Venezuelan one.  One would expect a Spaniard to know this (Ronald Reagan once confused Colombia with Bolivia, but such mistakes are more annoying when the guilty party belongs to the same culture).  I expect a Barcelonian would probably find many factual mistakes in the city's alleged architecture, but that's just a guess.  In the Spanish language version, the author employs many jarring anachronisms.  At one point he has Daniel saying to Fermin to \\"rebobine\\" (rewind, or repeat what he was saying), which I expect would not have been really used in the early fifties.  My issue of the Spanish Dictionary of the Royal Academy (the standard Spanish dictionary), which is the 1992 version, does not even include \\"rebobine\\" as a synonim to \\"repeat\\".  Of course these discussions may seem arcane to English readers, but a really good book does not make this sort of simple mistakes, which show that the book was dashed out without much care or editing.  Good atmosphere is not all.  Proper research, and care for language, are also important.<br /><br />This book, in fact, is not really very good, but it makes for amusing reading, perhaps in the context of a pool-side vacation.  I would have given it 3 1/2 stars if that were possible.  I don't think I'll re-read it, or give it as a present, but it was, all in all, a few hours of fun.many jarring anachronisms.  At one point he has Daniel saying to Fermin to \\"rebobine\\" (rewind, or repeat what he was saying), which I expect would not have been really used in the early fifties.  My issue of the Spanish Dictionary of the Royal Academy (the standard Spanish dictionary), which is the 1992 version, does not even include \\"rebobine\\" as a synonim to \\"repeat\\".  Of course these discussions may seem arcane to English readers, but a really good book does not make this sort of simple mistakes, which show that the book was dashed out without much care or editing.  Good atmosphere is not all.  Proper research, and care for language, are also important.    This book, in fact, is not really very good, but it makes for amusing reading, perhaps in the context of a pool-side vacation.  I would have given it 3 1/2 stars if that were possible.  I don't think I'll re-read it, or give it as a present, but it was, all in all, a few hours of fun.	2005-01-31
US	51127281	R1FLCMWVUTZ6BP	1859844413	754501369	The Prophet Armed: Trotsky 1879-1921	Books	3	28	41	N	N	Enjoyable whitewash	For nearly all its existence since Lenin's death in 1924 Trotsky (aka Lev Davidovich Bronstein) was Satan in the Bolshevik's manichean view of the world.  Most of the purges of the 1930s were allegedly meant to cleanse Soviet society and its key institutions (the Communist Party, the unions, the Red Army, the intelligentsia) of the Trotskyte taint that, like some sort of Original Sin, pervaded the proletarian dictatorship.  Stalin tried to erase Trotsky from the history of the Revolution.  He even erased Trotsky's physical attributes, not just by killing him in 1940, half a world away, but by obliterating his likeness wherever it might have been found. <br /> <br />This book, published fifty years ago, tried to counter the Stalinist plot against Trotsky by vindicating his key role in the 1905 and 1917 revolutions, in the Civil War and in the establishment of the Red Army and the Soviet state.  The author partially succeeds.  Here we see Trotsky in all his glory, as perhaps he would have liked to be remembered, as a child prodigy who from humble rural beginnings quickly found his way in the world, as a professional revolutionary, as a brilliant polemist and orator, who even as a young man was seen as worthy counterpart to Lenin, and far above the rest of the Party, as a good hearted man who tried to promote harmony within the Party and failed at it, as a cultured, civilized \\"westernizer\\", much more appealing than the brutal Stalin, who came straight from the \\"log cabin\\" of czarist barbarism.  He also came up with many good ideas, such as Lenin's New Economic Policy.  Deutscher also gives us some of the darker sides to Trotsky's scintillating personna.  He was proud and haughty, but brittle.  He was abusive to others, often unnecessarily.  He often let abstractions and daydreams take the place of reality.  And he came up with many bad ideas, such as War Communism and the Militarization of Labor.   <br /> <br />But, given Deutscher's profile (he was a Trotskyte) the book is often a competent whitewash.  The author shares Trotsky's (and the Bolshevik's) worldview to a great extent, and sees the October Revolution as a worthy action.  Mostly, he takes Trotskyte and Bolshevik motives as justification for their actions.  He portrays opponents (such as the White Guards and nationalist Ukrainians and Poles) as illegitimate.  Nowhere does the awfulness of Soviet rule, and the brutality of the Bolshevik leaders come through, except perhaps in their remarkably abusive writings.  To find such bitchiness nowadays one would have to refer to the academic world, where the nastiness is commensurate to the irrelevance of that which is being discussed. <br /> <br />Also, the book is often not very readable as history.  The author will often refer to future or past events in a single page, without indication of the precise dates, which makes this a hard book to read for someone not familiar with the October Revolution. <br /> <br />Having said this, a good reason to read this book is that it is beautifully written, and that the author really does get very close to his subject, which is mostly a negative in that he lacks perspective, but does bring the advantage of great liveliness which makes this a very good read.  This reminds me of Preston's life of General Franco.  Preston hated his subject and was unable utterly to develop any empathy with him, so the book was fairly arid and not insightful.  Deutscher has the opposite defect: he gets too close, as perhaps does Nicholas Farrell to Mussolini.  The ideal would be like Kershaw's Hitler or Short's Mao: far enough to look the monster in the eye, but not close enough to kiss him. <br /> <br />At this book's end, Trotsky is at the apex of his power, from which he would begin to slip during Lenin's final year.  But this is better left to volume II, which I also hope to review. <br /> <br />So read the book, but don't take Deutscher at his word. Complement this with Volkogonov's Trotsky.  And with Trotsky's own voluminous writings, which are often very amusing (particularly his biography of Stalin).	2005-01-28
US	51127281	R2UK7KYUJ7FQFJ	1563898446	331222438	Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again	Books	1	12	18	N	N	Makes me happy Watchmen 2 never came out	How do you write a sequel to a myth?  Certainly not like Miller has done in DK2.  Other reviewers have commented on the very poor draughtsmanship and on the repetitive storyline.  Some have also mocked his obsession with huge shoes.  These look specially disagreeable when worn by the Catwoman character.  The continuous digression to all sorts of grotesque talking heads is also annoying.  But nothing jars more than the \\"plot\\" (sic) concerning the superchicks, some sort of singers who dress up as superheroines.  For the life of me, I can't figure out what they mean, or why they turn up in this book, other than as a way to eat up valuable page space that had to be filled up somehow.  The dialogue is also pretty bad, specially between Superman and Wonder Woman.  The Robin as a villain is an obvious retake on Jimmy Olsen in \\"The Nail\\", but not as well done.    Shame on Miller for cashing in.  And with all those Sin City books he's selling, it's not like he needs the dough.  Alan Moore, if you read this, *please* do not attempt to put out Watchmen 2.	2005-01-22
US	51127281	R208YZVRC4S1I4	0465036562	98025992	Men of Tomorrow: Geeks, Gangsters, and the Birth of the Comic Book	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Social history of comics with a business twist	I was a comic book fan from my earliest age to about 10 years ago, when the whole thing seems to have gone to the dogs.  I was brought up on the Mexican editions of DC comics, and didn't become familiar with Marvel Comics until I visited the US in the second half of the 1970s and learned to love the cheeky humor and mindless action, plus the wonderful artwork of the Romitas, Buscemas and Ditkos of this world, and their little mannerisms (\\"true believers\\", \\"'nuff said\\", \\"excelsior!\\", \\"no-prizes\\" and such).  Although I did learn a bit about the origins and evolution of the medium, I must confess I was never too interested about the creators themselves.  For me, they were subsumed within the characters and stories they told, drew and inked.  I guess this may be a consequence of having learned about comics from reprints of 1960s Superman and Batman books, where the writers and artists were hidden under wraps, and strong individuality was discouraged.  Although I knew that Siegel and Schuster created Superman, that Kane and Finger did the same for Batman, and that Lee and a host of other talents (like Kirby, Ditko et a.) gave forth the Silver Age, I didn't know much about the guys themselves, or the business they were in. <br /> <br />This book has introduced me to the inner workings of the \\"House(s) of Ideas\\", both those of the creators and the businessmen.  It is certainly interesting to find out how such basic concepts as secret identity, origin story, motivation, super-villains and love interests came to be, and what was the business model that would enrich a few managers at the expense of some of the creators.  I was aware of the essential \\"American-ness\\" of comic books (that was, after all, part of the pleasure they gave to a foreigner in the days before color TV and cheap international travel).  \\"The Adventures of Kavalier and Klay\\" showed me that this was a particular brand of \\"American-ness\\", very deeply interwoven with a particular immigrant experience.  \\"Men of Tomorrow\\" fleshes out this landscape, and populates it with fascinating characters.  Even if you are not a comic book fan, it would be a very enjoyable read, since it is not a book for \\"geeks\\" and fleshes out all the stories for a general reader. I give it four stars because it could have used more pictures.  Memo for the editors: people who read comics like pictures!  Put some in in the next edition.	2004-11-25
US	51127281	RECZVLRPDSFXT	0312421958	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	10	13	N	N	There's no book like this on most cultures	So much praise has been heaped on this book that it is hard to say anything new.  The encyclopedic knowledge, the refined sensibility, the able selection of episodes and anecdotes make it a delight to read.   <br /> <br />But I was struck mainly by the sense of wonder at the extraordinary flowering of Russian culture in Czarist times, and of loss at the destruction of this world by the neo-barbarian Bolsheviks.  Figes explicitly says that there was no such thing as a Soviet culture, and that the Soviet regime brought nothing of value in the cultural sphere.  While harsh, that judgement is probably right, if one sees that there were no new Soviet musical composers besides well-known pre-revolutionary ones who returned to the Soviet Union, such as Prokofiev or Shostakovich.  I loved the chapter on the Russian exile, a subject with which I was not familiar other than through Boyd's two volume life of Nabokov.  A similar situation currently exists with the Cuban exiles, a similarly talented (and sized) diaspora. <br /> <br />The sections on Mongol influences in Russian culture and language, on the survival of pagan themes in folklore, on the exiled Decembrist noblemen, and particularly the peasant Prince Volkonsky and his wife, and on the awful life of Poet Tsevtaeva were specially trenchant.  Several names remain in my memory, as people I would have liked to meet, particularly Akhmatova and Maiakovski.  Or to have been a fly on the wall during the all-night meeting between poet Akhmatova and philosopher Berlin. <br /> <br />A friend brought me this book from the UK, and I read it through, always feeling a bit sorry that I was getting closer to the end.  I recommend it wholeheartedly.	2004-11-09
US	51127281	R2FOLJSEF9S37E	068486374X	38282201	The Economic Institutions of Capitalism	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Very useful for corporate lawyers	As a lecturer in law and economics I have used big chunks of this book as teaching material.  Another reviewer commented on the unfortunate writing style.  I agree.  Williamson is not accessible without significant effort from the reader, and often unnecessarily so.  But he is also extremely enlightening.  His analysis on contract governance is brilliant, and I have used his schematics on contract structures in both academic and professional life.  I advise lawyers who work in the corporate field, particularly in complex contractual arrangements, such as franchises or distribution agreements, to read this book.  It is really an eye-opener on why sometimes contracts fail to work as expected.	2004-11-09
US	51127281	R2MOVOXVB8TYZ8	8432208418	396063133	Dulces Guerreros Cubanos	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An insider's view of Caribbean totalitarianism	Norberto Fuentes was close for many years to Cuba's inner circle.  He fought in Fidel's African wars in former Portuguese colony Angola.  He was close to General Arnaldo Ochoa, a Hero of the Revolution who, according to Fuentes, led an Afro-Cuban army in the largest tank battle since WWII.  And a good friend to the De La Guardia twins, fast-living, good-looking intelligence operatives with plenty of blood on their hands.  Suddently, disaster struck.  In 1989, after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, strongman Castro decided he would give a sign that no glasnost or perestroika (remember them?) would happen in Cuba.  He had General Ochoa, Tony De la Guardia and several others arrested an tried on trumped-up charges of drug traficking, and afterwards had them executed by a kangaroo court.  Fuentes, a former darling of Fidel's for his earlier Hemingway book, fell from grace and was arrested.  He only got out at Gabriel Garc&iacute;a Marquez's request.<br /><br />Fuentes is therefore, a witness to life in Cuba for the inner circle.  These people are, within their own circle, omnipotent.  They can procure computers to write, like Fuentes, or recording equipment like Pablo Milan&eacute;s, which other writers or artists can only dream about.  They keep large bundles of US currency hidden in a variety of places (Fuentes kept part of his stash with his favorite mistress) just in case it's required.  They are absolutely amoral and would get into any sordid business provided it's profitable and Fidel's authorized it.  For them revolutionary rethoric is just a useful discourse to maintain their privileged status.  Fidel himself is, as one would expect, a megalomaniac with a speech disorder (he can't shut up), who believes in degrading or exalting his underlings in any way that suits him.  Fuentes is ambivalent towards Fidel: he knows Castro is a world-historical figure, but is entirely aware of the disfunctionality of the system that he has presided over for the past 45 years.  He grudgingly admires but also loathes Castro.  His sentiments are probably similar to those that Khruschev held towards Stalin: Admiration tinged with fear and disgust.  And it should be noted that Fuentes continues to proclame himself a Socialist persecuted by friends in the Nomenklatura.<br /><br />\\"Dulces Guerreros Cubanos\\" is a very personal book, somtimes rambling but never dull and always well-informed.  Whoever enjoys this book should also read Fuentes's more recent \\"La Autobiograf&iacute;a de Fidel Castro, Vol. 1\\", which takes 800+ pages just getting to the Revolution.  It is a veritable Aladdin's cave of mean spirited, but very funny, gossip and innuendo about Castro and his circle, supposedly written by Castro himself.  Having read several Castro biographies (among which I specially recommend Volker Skierka's recent work), I believe Fuentes a very useful resource, although he should be taken with a pinch of salt.  This is not history, but historicized fiction.grudgingly admires but also loathes Castro.  His sentiments are probably similar to those that Khruschev held towards Stalin: Admiration tinged with fear and disgust.  And it should be noted that Fuentes continues to proclame himself a Socialist persecuted by friends in the Nomenklatura.<br /><br />\\"Dulces Guerreros Cubanos\\" is a very personal book, somtimes rambling but never dull and always well-informed.  Whoever enjoys this book should also read Fuentes's more recent \\"La Autobiograf&iacute;a de Fidel Castro, Vol. 1\\", which takes 800+ pages just getting to the Revolution.  It is a veritable Aladdin's cave of mean spirited, but very funny, gossip and innuendo about Castro and his circle, supposedly written by Castro himself.  Having read several Castro biographies (among which I specially recommend Volker Skierka's recent work), I believe Fuentes a very useful resource, although he should be taken with a pinch of salt.  This is not history, but historicized fiction.	2004-11-09
US	51127281	R2FECCLJOAJNL5	1563890186	598496940	Batman: Holy Terror	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Full of mistakes, but very enjoyable	This is, as far as I know, the first official Elseworlds book.  The \\"What If\\" is Oliver Cromwell's survival for a decade, which ensures that the Puritan Commonwealth remains in place indefinitely in Britain and its colonies, including North America.  Bruce Wayne's parents, dissidents in this harsh, totalitarian theocracy, are murdered by order of the Court of Star Chamber, a shadowy religious authority.  This sets in motion the cogs and wheels that will lead to Batman's advent.  Seeking answers, Batman penetrates the bowels of Gotham Cathedral and runs into a government project, run by the demented scientist Erdel, to control superhumans and turn them into government stooges.  Flash, Green Lantern, Vicky Vale, Aquaman, Lori Lemaris, Clayface, Zatanna, Metamorpho and, most memorably, Superman, turn up and are either crushed by the government and turned into slaves.  The story is well told, and remarkably sophisticated.  The artwork is acceptable, though not brilliant.    The book is, nonetheless, full of mistakes.  The Commonwealth police were never called \\"Inquisitors\\", and in fact the term would have been repugnant to them, since it would have smelled of Catholic popery.  The same goes for the flagrant use of religious imagery in Bruce Wayne's gymnasium and in a Church where he is ordained.  The Puritans were iconoclasts and did not accept the use of human representation in a religious context.  In fact, they destroyed most of Britain's medieval imagery, which was a significant part of its culture.  The religious structure, with Bishops and ordained priests, looks rather Episcopal, and would have been inconsistent with the Puritans, many of whom were Presbiterians who did not accept tbe bishopry.  And also, the Puritans were very divided among themselves and could never have held power for 350 years irrespective of Cromwell's survival.  Plus the book is clearly intended as a heavy-handed criticism of the American religious right.  Comic books can do social criticism, but then they need to be better informed (cf. The Watchmen is still the gold standard for this).    Having said this, who cares?  The story is nonsensical but fun and memorable.  So buy it, already!	2004-11-09
US	51127281	R3L0L4H3RUPKQ5	1401201911	616430793	Superman: Red Son	Books	2	25	46	N	Y	Very disappointing	I waited a long time for this book.  I was thrilled to get it via Amazon.  I was *very* disappointed by it, and for many reasons.<br /><br />The first reason is that the premise is too narrow for such a long story to hold one's interest.  A great comic is read breathlessly, and only upon a second or third reading does one clearly identify the boring bits.  Here they are evident from the beginning and only become more so upon re-reading.  A long Elseworld book like \\"Golden Age\\" will warrant a fourth or fifth re-reading.  Not the case with Red Son.<br /><br />The second reason is that it is inconsistent.  Lex and Lois Luthor appear to be in their 20s in 1953 (the year of Stalin's death, at the beginning of the book).  That would make them about 65 when Lex is elected President.  At the time there is no indication that they have any children, and yet a complete lineage of Luthors is created in the final chapter, and a son is shown when there is no intimation that he should exist, or when he came to be.  Also, there is no reason why Richard Nixon should have been elected in 1960, and murdered in 1963, or why John F. Kennedy would be elected President in 1968 and hang around for about 20 years.  His marrying a fat, slutty Marilyn Monroe is fun but farcical.  That is clearly a take on Nixon in \\"The Watchmen\\", where he is still President in 1985.  There is no reason either why a pseudo-Batman should exist in the USSR, as the child of murdered dissidents, since Kal El's arrival in The Ukhraine in the 1930s should have no impact on NKVD activities prior to his adulthood.<br /><br />Finally, the book shows a profound ignorance about Communism.  Stalin is presented as a fairly malevolent old goat, but showing Stalin's son as the head of KGB is ridiculous, given that Stalin never gave a hoot about his own children and actually drove one of them to suicide in a German KZ.  And the drawings aren't so hot, except for the simulated \\"Socialist\\" posters.  A sort of \\"Social Realism\\",a la \\"Batman Year 1\\" would probably have been more suitable.  As it is, it looks cartoony in a cheap sort of way.<br /><br />One doesn't expect deep social criticism from a comic book (although they can provide it on occasion), but \\"Red Son\\", so long in the making, was subject to high expectations, which it hasn't discharged.<br /><br />All in all, an opportunity lost.  A pity.	2004-11-05
US	51127281	R3OP9NYCCNM8K4	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	4	6	11	N	Y	The Nazis seize power in the US through an unexpected President	In this book, history veers off course for two years (1940-1942) before falling back on track.  In 1940 crack aviator Charles A. Lindbergh is elected President on an isolationist Republican platform, and things go pear shaped for the young Roth family of Newark, New Jersey.  President Lindbergh quickly reaches an agreement with Hitler to prevent war between the two powers, but of course people worry about any secret protocols to the agreement, mainly concerning the fate of America's Jews.  I won't go deeper into the plot, but to say that it is plausible.  The country had significant working-class Polish, Irish and German minorities and was ruled by a anglophile elite with deep genteel antisemitic leanings.  Isolationist sentiment was by no means confined to the lunatic fringe.  In fact, even in WWI there was deep resistance over American involvement.  It is certain that an attractive, telegenic candidate like Lindbergh (compared to the ridiculous Wendell Wilkie, a Costello-look alike and well known lover of Madame Chiang Kai Shek) might have made a difference in 1940.    The novel is indeed the most personal of Roth's so far.  His portrayal of his stoic, honorable father, his strong, decent mother, his talented, ambivalent brother and his rebellious cousin all ring true.  Roth's young alter ego is an egotistic fantasist, who is also a top-notch narrator.  There are some common themes from his previous work, notably the American Pastoral trilogy.  The representation of evil derangement is female.  There is an honorable Jewish man buffeted by changes he cannot control or even understand.  Nasty consequences follow from minute causes.  Lirical descriptions of New Jersey working class life and scenery abound (a welcome respite from all the ridiculing of the Garden State in the movies).  The book is also an enjoyable read.  There is plenty of action, dialogue, intrigue and description.    So why are some people so critical of it? The book is obviously asking for troublewhen it straddles into alternate-history territory.  Roth was presumably surprised to learn how many readers like this sort of thing (witness the success of Harris or Turtledove) and how strongly critical they are of serious novelists who stray into their neighborhood.    But I liked this book, and there's no reason why you shouldn't, too.  It is a plausible story, with well-rendered characters and a nice pace.	2004-11-02
US	51127281	R3JKQOJCVF735A	0060929170	517998934	Mexico: Biography of Power	Books	5	87	88	N	N	Mexico's ying and yang	I have to confess I haven't read the English version of this book.   But if it's anywhere as good as the 3-volume Spanish version, it is probably excellent.<br />Mexico, particularly in Latin America, is a mythical country.  It has always had a vibrant popular culture.  In Colombia, it used to be said that the upper class aspired to be English, the middle class wanted to be American, and the lower class wished to be Mexican.  This is no slight on Mexico, just a statement of its powerful pull over others.  Amazingly, such an important country has never had such a strong historiography as much smaller ones, like Cuba.  This has many reasons, one of them being that the Revolutionary Institutional Party (PRI), probably the most effective political party in history, was able to co-opt most intellectuals either with favors or intimidation.<br />Therefore, much Mexican history used to revel in a hagiographical version of its pre-Columbian splendor and to celebrate politically correct milestones, such as Hidalgo's cry, Juarez's victory over Maximilian or the 1911 revolution, while glossing over other important but more embarrasing episodes, such as Iturbide's empire, Santa Anna's 30 year reign that led to the less of the Northern half of the country to the US, Maximilian's closeness to Indian land rights (Indians in Mexico were never better treated than under Maximilian), the remarkably efficient Porfiriato (a 35 year-long dictatorship), or the extremely brutal aftermath of the revolution.  This promoted a mythological self-view of Mexico that paved the ground for the economic catastrophe of Lopez Portillo and the political catastrophe of Salinas de Gortari.<br />For anyone interested in looking behind the cobwebs of official history and popular culture, Krauze is a Godsend.  In his work one can view the greater trends of Mexican history, and understand how a country may be both statist and hospitable to private business, officially anti-clerical but deeply religious, oftenin unorthodox ways, extremely violent but highly cultured, with an often radical foreign policy that belied a very conservative political culture.<br />As a Colombian I was very surprised at the conservative failure to win power from the 1870s to current President Fox (in Colombia the conservatives have run the country for well over half of its existence).  One, of course, has to see the origin of this in the alleged betrayal of the conservatives who supported Maximilian's empire, even though Maximilian himself wasn't conservative at all.  And Mexico's complex attitude to religion can be traced to such ambivalent figures as Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz (a nun-poet who was deeply critical of male domination in the Church) and Father Hidalgo (a revolutionary priest who is one of Mexico's Founding Fathers, who was close to freemasons and loved to indulge in forbidden readings and female companionship).  <br />Mexico's strong nationalism is of course fueled by its closeness to the most powerful country in the world.  Like Porfirio Diaz said, &quot;We are so far away from God, and so close to the Americans&quot;.  Also Mexico's Indian pride (maybe no country other than Paraguay, where dictator Gaspar Rodriguez de Francia forced whites and indians to marry, has a better tradition of metissage, although the rights of actual indians have historically been disregarded: cf. the Zapatistas in Yucatán) did not prevent it from receiving the greater part of Republican Spanish emigration after the Civil War.<br />So, Mexico is a complex country, perhaps more than most.  It is also, after Argentina's self-combustion, the only Hispanic-American country to have a shot at the first world.  Harvard's Huntington has decried Mexican influence in the US, and has even hinted that Mexico could use its presence throughout the South Western US to reclaim its former territories.  That is highly unlikely.  Mexico is fully aware that it has to live and work with its powerful northern neighbor (although that's not inconsistent with an official nationalist policy, for popular consumption).  But these fears indicate that all North Americans should be interested in Mexico.  And Krauze is a great place to start.  Americans, in particular, do worse than to know more about their great southern neighbor.	2004-04-27
US	51127281	R2PW5792JEHMT7	0691058644	990320532	The Strategic Constitution	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Very useful synopsis of key themes	If economic analysis of law had developed in continental Europe it would probably have begun with Constitutional law, rather than torts (Cf. Calabresi, the Cost of Accidents).  As it was, the body of economic analysis of constitutional law is just starting to come together from a variety of sources, including public choice theory.  Cooter came up with the idea for this book by way of discussions with European constitutional law experts.  The book has all the merits of Cooter &amp; Ulen's &quot;Law and Economics&quot;.  It is very easy to follow because it has been clearly written.  It is not as deep, but neither is it as verbose as Posner, nor as insightful, or as superficial, as Sunstein.  As a law and economics professor I have found it a Godsend.  Its many examples and exercises make it a perfect undegraduate textbook, and it is high time it were translated into other languages (particularly Spanish, where there is no equivalent contemporary text).  One would hope that Cooter would follow it up with a casebook with American and European cases.  This is still a white space, and there's no one better qualified than Cooter to fill it up.<br />One caveat is that The Stratetic Constitution still shows the joints between some of the chapters and the greater whole, and there seem to be other subjects which could have been dealt with in greater detail, such as the impact of positive constitutional rights, which is significant in many countries whose systems are based on statutory law.	2004-04-26
US	51127281	R14NTPSP75VB9Q	0385471955	238067236	Paris After the Liberation	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Almost as good as Stalingrad or Berlin	Paris after the Liberation has captured the imagination like no other Nazi-liberated city (sure, there's \\"Roma, Citta Aperta\\", but can any non-Italian mention any intellectual or politician living in Rome in 1944?).  Maybe it's because the French are better at self-promotion.  Maybe it's because their history is more dramatic than others (4 major revolutions- 1789, 1830, 1848 and 1871-in less than a century), or because Paris is a better setting for a good story (remember Les Miserables, or a Tale of Two Cities), but the happenings in Paris in 1944-1949 are compulsively readable.<br />The scene is dramatic: it moves from avant-guard theatres to banquet halls, from smelly bistros to worker tenements, from Les Champs Elysees to Saint-Germain-Des-Pres.  The cast is outstanding: doddering Petain, haughty De Gaulle, decent Mauriac, ambitious Malraux, brilliang Sartre, Camus, Hemingway, Picasso, Celine, Brassillach, Drieu, plus a large cast of fanatical communists and anti-semites, ignorant American senators, well-connected British spies and hairy proto-Kerouacs.  Everything comes together: military and political matters, social and artistic trends, intellectual developments.  Paris, in 1944-1949, was shabby and run-down, its people hungry and ill-scrubbed (although that's perhaps a recurring theme), but it was the mecca of the world.  Anyone who was anyone was there.  <br />Beevor and Cooper tell the story well.  They are able to add much flavour to the well-known facts by judicious use of diaries and private papers.  One feels like one was there.  I wouldn't have minded it myself.	2004-04-24
US	51127281	R1705X2SRS8OCB	0517219018	825352881	The Stand (Modern Classics)	Books	2	32	41	N	N	Throat clearing in civics 101	My expectations when I picked up this book were high.  It is one of the longest one its author has written and it is reputed to be the best.  I haven't read them all, so I wouldn't be a good judge of that, but I can say it's not as good as The Shining.  This is not because of the subject, which is nothing less than Armageddon, courtesy of a virulent strain of the flu (\\"Captain Trips\\") which, after having been unexpectedly released in an American military facility, proceeds to kill over 90% of Americans (and presumably, of humanity) within about a week.  The small number of survivors is then assaulted by dreams, one of a positive and one of a negative force.  Each force guides them to its respective stronghold, Las Vegas and Boulder.  A bunch of survivors (an East Texas cowboy, a pregnant single woman, a rock semi-star, a sociology professor, a smart dork, a retard, a mute, a schoolteacher, an arsonist, a smalll-time criminal, among others) must choose to align themselves either with good or with evil.<br />So what's wrong with this picture?  Nothing wrong with the first part, the description of the end of civilization after disease strikes is very well rendered.  The second part is perhaps too long: it also seems to contain King's political views (the good guys are virtually anarchist-libertarians, the bad guys are essentially fascists).  Again, that's not necessary bad.  The third part is just too short, and badly put together.  The good guys manage to reach the evil city after hundreds of pages of scene-setting and then everything's over in the blink of an eye.  The bad guy, Randall Flagg, had potential, but somehow failed to come together.  King is always telling us that he can do this or that (give you prostrate cancer, or a head-ache, or a VD) just by looking at you, but as an evil presence he doesn't even approach the Overlook Hotel.  I would have liked to have seen greater degeneration in the evil city.  It comes across just as a place which is unusually orderly and well-functioning, but were people are scared.  That's also a good description of Singapore, and I don't see that city as a terrible place to live.  While I'm not Stephen King, I can easily imagine new dark rituals taking place in Las Vegas, awful, pre-Columbian monsters coming to life in the desert to guard the Eastern marches of the Devil's Kingdom, and a horrible damnation coming to all creation.  Just reading about life in Nazi-occupied Ukraine is more terrifying, and it actually happened.  Instead of this we get a smiling guy with a third eye who can levitate a couple of inches above the ground.  Instead of devilish hordes of demi-humans (such as Lovecraft would have provided) we have just ordinary human beings who actually do nothing too terrible.  Instead of a memorable clash between good and evil we get Civics 101 (including the Burial Committee and the Lampost Checking Squad).  And although there are a few references to countries other than the USA, they are perfunctory.  If we're dealing with cosmic evil, it should at least be global.  I thought this was supposed to be \\"a tale of ultimate horror\\", like the sub-title says.<br />It's not that none of the characters are likeable.  Some of them are OK.  Harold Lauder is not bad, although he should have done more things to show he was brilliant.  We are always told he is, but he doesn't show us.  Texan Stu is OK and Larry the musician is actually pretty good.  Nasty slut Julie is actually excellent, really repulsive and quite real.  Mother Abagail is OK, but she dies too quickly and doesn't give us enough fireworks: what use is being God's chosen if one can't even smite some hellspawn or call down the fire from the heavens?  Even Moses had his serpent staff.  Flagg begins well, but then he honors his name and flags down to just vaguely threatening.  Since when does the devil need to negotiate everything with his followers?  Since 1962 Marvels Comics we've known that the bad guy needs to be much strongerthan the good guys in order for suspense to build up.  As the end aproaches, Flagg looks actually weaker than the good guys and the end was, to me, very disappointing,<br />The book is actually three stories.  The first one, the end of the world, is pretty good.  The second one, living after the plague is not bad, but full of padding.  The third one, the confrontation between light and darkness, is a let-down.  I'm not exactly sorry I read the book, but I would probably not have done so if I had read this review before.  There's just too many good books around.	2004-04-23
US	51127281	R3TXHJ5B63OO5L	0520082893	19048479	The Making of Modern Colombia: A Nation in Spite of Itself	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Much more than drugs and violence	This is the best English language history of Colombia available.  It follows the history of the country, from its disjointed past to its integrated yet violent present.  Bushnell joins traditional &quot;great man&quot; history with current &quot;socieconomic&quot; and &quot;cultural&quot; history.  He expresses unqualified admiration for Carlos Lleras Restrepo, and has good things to say about Rafael Nunez, Rafael Reyes, Alfonso Lopez Pumarejo, Cesar Gaviria, Gustavo Rojas Piniblla, Francisco de Paula Santander and even Laureano Gomez.  He acknowledges the country's ancestral commitment to economic stability and political moderation (which it traces, among other reasons, to the influence of coffee culture and of the country's traditional poverty), its historic yet slowly eroding loyalty to the Catholic religion and its cultural distinctiveness.<br />He also provides data to explode the myth that the country is run by a land-owning, violent oligarchy, or that Colombian GDP is mainly drug related, or that the country has historically been more violent than its neighors.<br />He doesn't make the mistake of allowing his own prejudices to determine what he choses to highlight, while at the same time refraining from moral relativism.  He acknowledges both good and bad in all main characters and groups in the country's history, and remains mostly optimistic about its future.<br />The bibliographic section is priceless, even for Colombians.  If you'd like to go beyond generalities and pious nonsense about Colombia, read this book and then, if still interested, round it up with Henderson's &quot;When Colombia Bled&quot; and Safford and Palacios' &quot;Colombia. Fragmented Land, Divided Society&quot;.  A great list of books on Colombia is available in Amazon.com: just look at Bert Ruiz's &quot;My Favorite Books on Colombia&quot; for more, apposite material.	2004-04-15
US	51127281	R32LW36ECIU4JH	1400040949	788802096	The Anatomy of Fascism	Books	3	48	61	N	Y	Good single volume introduction to fascism	Fascism is the genus to which Nazism, Falangism, Francisme, the Arrow Cross, the Order of the Archangel Michael, the Ustasha, and possibly also certain strains of militant Islam belong.  The book provides a very useful primer to the subject (which, by the way, goes well beyond a standard insult for supposed right wingers).  It is, however, addressed to college students and won't be much fun for those with an occasional interest, nor very informative for those who have  already read on the subject.  But even people familiar with the subject can always use a single refresher source.  The bibliographic essay is excellent, and the copious footnotes are very rewarding (who ever knew that Iceland had fascists?).  The book is not as fulfilling as Payne's, but it is much shorter and up to date.<br />Although these things should be obvious to any college-educated person, it is still useful to assert that third world dictatorships (such as Pinochet or Mobutu) are not fascist, that Fascism's symbols must be rooted in a country's culture (so that Swastikas and Roman salutes are quite useless in most countries), that Fascism could achieve power only with the support of existing elites but was not a mere tool of those elites, and that Fascism was authentically democratic (this is a good lesson who believe democracy is always good no matter what its consequences), although it never came to power via an election.<br />Paxton is intriguing when he refers to his opinion that the USA, at the end of the '60s, was ripe for a fascist takeover.  He refers to the revulsion many Americans felt for the counterculture of the time, the fear of many lower middle class white males at being left behind by women and blacks after the Civil Rights movement, and the likelihood that Vietnam War veterans might fail to be integrated into the new scheme of things and thus could perform a role similar to the fascist squadristi or the Nazi SA, and allow themselves to be used to frighten the electorate into a strong-arm fix to the crisis.  He doesn't elaborate on this scenario, but it might have been viable if the American political system had failed to recover from the Nixon resignation.  This would have been particularly likely after the oil crises of the 1970s if the two main parties had fallen apart.  Remember that Wallace, then a racist, captured in 1968 13% of the popular vote, and 5 Southern states.<br />This is an interesting \\"What If\\" that the author could have explored further, although he probably chose not to in order not to bulk out the book excessively.  Thus, it retains its sense of urgency and provides abundant interesting information on most pages.<br />In spite of these merits The book does make a serious blunder, when, in the final chapter, it compares Fascism to Communism and concludes that Nazism was far worse because it persecuted people for who they were, whereas Communism persecuted them because of what they did or had, and these things could be changed. This is blatantly untrue.<br />When Stalin ordered the kulaks to be liquidated as a class, he did not mean that those who gave up their excess property would be left alone.  He meant that anyone classed as a kulak should be liquidated irrespective of what he did or didn't do.  Indeed, many kulaks were not richer than their neigbours, and were classified as such only to fulfil the quotas imposed by the Vozhd.<br />When the Soviet Union or China created the groups \\"Enemies of the People\\", it included the children or spouses of such enemies of the people, who clearly couldn't have done anything to prevent it.  \\"Enemies of the People\\" were persecuted, incarcerated and often killed.<br />And when Stalin ordered that the families of soldiers who did not stand their ground in battle should be punished (read: executed) he wasn't giving them any choice: how could the families prevent a relative from behaving cowardly?  So, it is wrong, and not just factually, to state that Communism punished people onlybecause of what they did.  The implication that people under Communism could save themselves by changing their behaviour is also false, and deeply offensive.  In reality Communism killed people for who they were, and for who their parents, or spouse, or children, or siblings were, or for the actions of their neighbours, and even for their own nationalities: witness the cruel deportation of the Chechens and other peoples during WWII.  When top Bolsheviks ordered the murder of tens of thousands of Poles at the Katyn Massacre because these people were leaders in their communities (priests, teachers, nobles, etc.), just what could these victims have done to survive?  When Mao, during the cultural revolution, sent urban students to \\"learn from the peasants\\" and live for years in unimaginable squalor, just what was he punishing?<br />I don't have a clear and articulated opinion on whether communism or fascism was worse (although I do know that in fascist states one would usually be left alone unless one belonged to a persecuted group- see Eric Johnson's \\"Nazi Terror\\"-, whereas in commuist states one could be swept along by the periodic purges irrespective of what one was and what one did- see Robert Conquest's \\"The Great Terror\\", inter alia), but I am certain that Paxton belittles the awfulness of Communist rule, and somehow assumes that its victims were to blame for what they suffered (since they wouldn't have been punished if they had changed their behaviour).  To anyone who might be misled by Paxton's opinion, I can only recommend enduring texts such as Anne Appleabum's \\"Gulag: A History\\", or Solzhenitsyn's \\"Gulag Archpielago\\".<br />I still give Paxton 3 stars because this dubious opinion is marginal to his analysis (he clearly didn't think it through and might choose to elaborate the point in a further edition) and other than that the book is pretty good if slightly wooden.because of what they did.  The implication that people under Communism could save themselves by changing their behaviour is also false, and deeply offensive.  In reality Communism killed people for who they were, and for who their parents, or spouse, or children, or siblings were, or for the actions of their neighbours, and even for their own nationalities: witness the cruel deportation of the Chechens and other peoples during WWII.  When top Bolsheviks ordered the murder of tens of thousands of Poles at the Katyn Massacre because these people were leaders in their communities (priests, teachers, nobles, etc.), just what could these victims have done to survive?  When Mao, during the cultural revolution, sent urban students to \\"learn from the peasants\\" and live for years in unimaginable squalor, just what was he punishing?<br />I don't have a clear and articulated opinion on whether communism or fascism was worse (although I do know that in fascist states one would usually be left alone unless one belonged to a persecuted group- see Eric Johnson's \\"Nazi Terror\\"-, whereas in commuist states one could be swept along by the periodic purges irrespective of what one was and what one did- see Robert Conquest's \\"The Great Terror\\", inter alia), but I am certain that Paxton belittles the awfulness of Communist rule, and somehow assumes that its victims were to blame for what they suffered (since they wouldn't have been punished if they had changed their behaviour).  To anyone who might be misled by Paxton's opinion, I can only recommend enduring texts such as Anne Appleabum's \\"Gulag: A History\\", or Solzhenitsyn's \\"Gulag Archpielago\\".<br />I still give Paxton 3 stars because this dubious opinion is marginal to his analysis (he clearly didn't think it through and might choose to elaborate the point in a further edition) and other than that the book is pretty good if slightly wooden.	2004-04-12
US	51127281	R25NQ9F11JVNNY	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	At last he steps from under his master's shadow	Khruschev spent all his life trying to get out of the Vozhd's shadow.  Stalin made him what he was, and, until the end of his life, he ran from his legacy, while at the same time continuing to indulge in many of its ways.  For a very long time Kruschev has been a walk-on character in the Stalin biographies (particularly egregiously in Volkogonov's \\"Autopsy of an Empire\\", where everyone after Stalin is a let-down).  Stalin was so exceptional (and I'm not saying this as praise: rather the opposite) that everyone (including such extraordinary characters as Zhukov, Kaganovich, Bukharin, Beria, Kirov and also Khruschev) ends up looking pale by comparison.  <br />Taubman's biography does justice to its subject.  It emphasizes his duality: an ignorant man who prized culture and loved to deal with artists, but could never do so without alienating them; a true man of the people (the only real manual worker to have become leader of the USSR), with simple tastes, who was yet devious beyond measure; an exceptionally intelligent person who achieved the greatest power, but who probably would have been happier as a manager of a manufacturing concern; a warm man in public, who was yet extremely distant from his family, although he loved them deeply; a man who was a teetotaler who however was perceived as a drunk; a negotiator who wanted to end the Cold War, who did much more than anyone else to almost bring about nuclear apocalypse; a loyal Party man who ended up almost dismantling the Party and betraying its rules.  One could go on, and on, because nothing about Khruschev was simple.<br />Although Taubman doesn't say so, Kruschev's strategy was similar to that used by other figures who managed to survive terrible masters.  Robert Graves's Emperor Claudius comes to mind: according to Suetonius, he survived the madness of Caligula and the bloodshed of Tiberius by pretending to be a fool, a drunk and a cripple.  Like Claudius, Khruschev survived Stalin's various Terrors by disguisinghis ambition and playing the buffoon endlessly: by appearing useful but harmless, in short.  But, like Claudius, the abilities that led him to supreme power, deserted him once he achieved his goal: Claudius was easily destroyed by his cunning niece Agrippina the Younger, and her psycopath son, Nero.  Similarly, Khruschev, after having disposed of such tough customers as Beria, Malenkov, Bulganin and Molotov, was brought down by a second-rater, Leonid Brezhnev, in a singularly inept coup that probably could have been easily dismantled if Khruschev had had his eye on the ball.  Many of these leaders were grotesques (particularly Malenkov and Beria), and Taubman does a sterling job at presenting them like real human beings, which they also were.<br />The story Taubman tells is exceptional, and he tells it supremely well.  One feels like another guest at Khruschev's dachas, or a fly-on-the-wall at yet another Politburo meeting.  The cast of secondary characters is fascinating, including, on the American side, Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson, and key establishment types such as the Dulles brothers, Averell Harriman, Adlai Stevenson and Bobby Kennedy.  Interesting brits, notably Harold Macmillan, make their appearances, as do Conrad Adenauer, Mao Ze Dong, Zhou En Lai, Josip Broz Tito, Fidel Castro, Pandit Nehru, Sukarno, Charles de Gaulle and Walter Ulbricht.  That was a time when giants walked the earth, and this is truly the story of The Man and his Era, like the dustjacket says.  I was particularly interested in Andropov's role in the publication of the Khruschev memoirs in the US: appparently, as KGB chief, he could have stopped it because Khruschev´s contact was actually a KGB mole, but didn't, because he wasn't just a simple spymaster but also a complex character.<br />All the key episodes (like the infamous shoe-banging at the United Nations, the Cuban missile crisis, the several Berlin crises, the Hungary invasion, the secret speech at the end of theXX Party Congress, the launching of Sputnik and the Pasternak Nobel Prize) are told in just the right length, with all the context required for a non-specialist.<br />From the book one emerges with the view that Khruschev was not a demented villain like Stalin and Lenin, nor a useless careerist like Brezhnev.  He was rather like Gorbachev: a true believer who thought that the system he served could survive and would become even stronger if cleansed of the accretions of 35 years of dictatorship.  He was also a visionary.  He understood the change in the role of armies as a consequence of nuclear and high-tech weapons (he knew that large standing armies would be unnecesary and even counter-productive in the new world).  He saw that the so-called Third World was the next frontier for the Cold War.  He realized the USSR would have to live with Chinese and Yugoslav socialism, and that this would not necessarily weaken Moscow's power in the long term.  He realized that Mao's China meant that a rapprochement with the USA was necessary in order to maintain his country's status )if Khruschev hadn't been overthrown and Kennedy hadn't been killed, it's quite possible Nixon's entente with Mao would never have happened, because it would have been pre-empted by a new Soviet-American understanding).  His moving the missiles into Cuba was actually no different from the US having missiles in other countries bordering the USSR, such as Turkey.  He understood that Stalinism was an illness, which he tried to cure, although he failed to notice that, to a large extent, Stalinism was encoded in the Leninist DNA, and couldn't be done away it without losing Leninism as well.  <br />He did many evil things.  He was instrumental in collectivising the Ukraine, causing the worst famine in history after Mao's great leap forward.  He led the purges in Ukraine in the 1930's, although he tried to protect the local culture and language from his own onslaught.  He was instrumental in saving Stalingrad from the Germans, at a terrible cost.  He persecuted religion in the USSR like even Stalin hadn't dared.  He was a reckless gambler, and he sometimes lost sight of his bets.<br />Yet he was courageous and, on the whole, likeable.  He was probably the nicest guy that worked for Stalin, which may not be saying a lot, but it's better than being called the worst of them all (and there's plenty of competition for that spot).  Judged against these (admittedly low) standards, Khruschev didn't do too badly.  Taubman's book will do much to give him the place he deserves in the history of the last century.	2003-08-11
US	51127281	R1S0BBGWM92PK1	0773509828	341334392	St Petersburg Dialogues: Or Conversations on the Temporal Government of Providence	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A latter day Platonic Dialogue	I picked up this book in a wonderful pocket edition in Spanish, which allowed me to read it in snatches.  I believe it is better read thus, rather than in one sitting (I can't imagine reading 500+ pages of complex arguments in one go).  The author, Count Joseph de Maistre, was a Catholic Savoyard nobleman who was born in the Ancién Régime's twilight and was almost buried by the revolutionary upheavals after 1789.  Separated from his family and nearly broke, he endured a long odyssey through Europe, always escaping the revolutionaries just before their arrival into a territory, at last seeking refuge in Saint Petersburg where he quickly became a local fixture, well respected as a very learned man.  His learning is visible in the St. Petersburg Dialogues, where he has three characters (the count- apparently himself-, the senator - an elderly Russian nobleman- and the knight -a young French soldier) meet at the Count's dacha for 11 nights to debate all sort of matters.  They discuss the nature of Providence, and address the old question \\"why does the good man suffer, whereas the evildoer thrives?\\" in a very ingenious way.  They discuss the origin of languages, the limits of science, the future of mankind.  There is also a very long disquisition in which the Count tears Locke's \\"Treatise on Human Understanding\\" to tatters.  The writing is wonderfully fluid and a character may talk about an issue for pages on end, but this is never boring because the arguments move forward very quickly.  De Maistre was a great polemist and many of his arguments were apparently meant to shock the reader.  This will happen at times even when the reader tends to agree with most of the Count's arguments (as in my case).  Clearly, after the passing of Gilbert K. Chesterton (1930's) there hasn't been a worthy Catholic polemist willing to take on many of the fallacies of the modern mindset.<br />The Dialogues is, at its best, worthy of the Socratic dialogues on which it was modelled, althoughDe Maistre is as guilty as Plato of never giving opposite viewpoints enough airtime.  He may have been worried about fortifying them, which was opposite to his intention.  De Maistre shows that religion doesn't have to be fair, only consistent.  The Count, possessed of one of the bleakest views on nature imaginable, lived up to his own somber expectations.  Having lived in exile for a quarter century, he died a few years after the Restoration, unable to enjoy the re-establishment of absolute monarchy and absolute religion.<br />I found the book to be very uplifting in the spiritual sense and very much enjoyed the robust argumentation.	2003-05-30
US	51127281	R2ZZMJ03OUVLON	0312308574	686715097	Paris Between Empires: Monarchy and Revolution 1814-1852	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Cossacks camped out on the Champs Elysees	This book is a history of Paris between the two Napoleonic Empires (1814-1852). It starts with Napoleon's initial defeat, the first occupation of Paris, the Hundred Days and the second occupation. It is indeed extraordinary that Paris was not treated by the Russians in 1815 like Berlin was in 1945. Of course, Napoleon was no Hitler and Alexander I was no Stalin (although the French occupation of Russia was also quite violent, if less protracted than the German one), but then again Paris was no Berlin, and one doesn't treat the most beautiful city in the world like any other place (the point was accepted by the illustrious General and Field Marshall Von Choltitz, who chose to betray his führer rather than raze lovely Paris). <br />The story picks up its pace during the restoration. Building on his successful biography of Louis XVIII, Mansel shows that the familiar dismissal of the Bourbons (who supposedly had neither learnt nor forgotten anything) was unfair, at least during the reign of Louis XVIII, the former Count of Provence and younger brother of the slain Louis XVI. Louis XVIII went out of his way to reconcile the people with the monarchy, and he was genuinely popular during his short reign.  It is interesting to see how biographers are attracted to their subjets.  Antonia Fraser in her biography of Marie-Antoinette regards the Comte de Provence as a traitor who waited abroad for his brother's family to be slaughter in order to inherit the throne, whereas Mansel's Louis XVIII is a peaceful, clever, if slightly cynical, man.<br />The author brings to life the verve with which the Parisians enjoyed their lives after nearly thirty years of revolutionary and Napoleonic wars (according to Mansel, the Restoration's most reliable supporters were women, who did not want their children, husbands or lovers to be sent out to war). He recalls the literary, philosophical and political salons, which were not just gathering points for like-minded flaneurs, but essential nerve endings in the city's political life. In many cases, political decisions were made not in government offices, but in the salons themselves. <br />The murder at the opera of the Duc de Berry, Louis XVIII's nephew is brilliantly described. Mansel conveys the shortsightedness of Charles X (Louis XVIII's brother) and his advisors (including the brilliant poet and diarist, but terrible politician and rather unpleasant person, Chateaubriand) which managed to alienate the Parisians in six short years and led to the mercenary and unloved bourgeois monarchy of Louis-Philippe, who was always suffering attempts on his life (it seems to me that he is unnecessarily beastly to Poiron, as Louis-Philippe was known due to his pear shaped face- Louis-Philippe was a pleasant, apparently decent man, who did much to bring bourgeois propriety to France, and preferred to let people enrich themselves rather than get them involved in international wars- I would much rather be governed by a man like Louis-Philippe, than by an arrogant trouble-maker like his successor, Napoleon the Small). The end, when it came, was swift and epical, as 1848 unfolded, the dress rehearsal for the Commune of 1870. <br />The book is full of loving detail that only someone with several books about the main people of the era could achieve. I was fascinated to read about the most influential man in Paris during the restoration, Count Pozzo di Borgo, a brilliant and cynical Corsican general who hated Napoleon and threw in his lot with the Russians. It's not the Belle Epoque, but it's not far off.  By the way, Pozzo di Borgo ended his days as one of the richest men in France, and his descendants are still around, and still doing very well indeed.	2003-04-27
US	51127281	R10HOIWWB3LQRJ	0300097263	676003099	Empire: The Russian Empire and Its Rivals	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Rambling, but not uninteresting	Dominic Lieven, the historian of Imperial Russia (he is the author a very cogent biography of Czar Nicholas II), has written a long book on a big subject. In spite of the broad title (\\"Empire\\"), the book, as suggested by the sub-title, is really a comparison between modern continental European empires (Ottoman, Austro-Hungarian, Russian and Soviet) and a modern Atlantic Empire (British). He also takes a couple of stabs at the Chinese empire, although wisely steers away from making many points about this subject, which is likely to suck in the unwary. He does not attempt a definition of empire as such, and while acknowledging the socio-geographical school of thought (pioneered by Montesquieu and currently incarnated in Huntington), largely steers clear of \\"German-philosophy-type-First-Principles\\" and such. This is a relief, because he has much to say just looking at actual facts. <br />Although he concludes that, after the (probably terminal) eclipse of France as a continental great power after the First Empire, the real competition is between Germany and Russia, and that when one is in the ascendant (as was Germany in 1871-1945 and since 1990) the other one is in the relapse (Russia was ascendant between the Vienna Congress and the creation of the German Reich). While his arguments are intuitively appealing, Lieven does not say enough about Germany proper (the \\"Drang Nach Osten\\", for example) to support this contention, given that his focus is on the Southern part of cultural Germany, the Austro-Hungarian empire.<BR> <BR>As a historian of Ukraine, Lieven observes that the Russian heartland is Ukraine and that Russia may not be a great power separated from Ukraine, which raises the ugly likelihood of a future anexation of Ukraine and other neighbouring territories of historical, cultural or military significance by the extant Russia, not unlike what Germany did with the Saarland, the Sudetenland and other regions, prior to invading Poland and precipitating we-know-what. What is clear is that Russia is not likely to remain within its current borders, which have stripped out virtually all territorial gains made by the successive Russian and Soviet Regimes since Peter the Great at least. <br />He points out that Russia has experienced three modernization waves: one, starting with Peter the Great and probably \\"petering\\" out with the disappointments of Alexander I and the regression of Nicholas I (i.e., circa 1700 to 1825), the second one starting with the liberation of the serfs by Alexander II and extending to the Soviet times, winding down with the ossification of the regime with Breznev and Andropov after a failure by Kruschev to re-ignite the revolutionary fires (1861-1964), and a third one started by Gorbachov and still apparently in full swing (1985-Present). Given that each renewal was accompanied by a period or Russian Hegemony (the first one culminated during the second half of the XVIII century, under Catherine the Great and the second one in the 1940s and 1950s, under Stalin and Kruschev), it is clear that Lieven believes that a Russian comeback is waiting around the corner, hard is it may be to believe this now. <BR>Very perceptively, Lieven notes that growing unrest with Islamic nations can only lead to a rapprochement between the USA and Russia. This was published in 2000, well before S-11 and the current entente cordiale between the 2 great nations. <BR>He also has a few things to say concerning current multi-lingual \\"empires\\", such as Malaysia, Indonesia and (surprise, surpise) the European Union. As may be expected with an author writing on this subject, he has antipathy towards nationalism and thinks that such \\"empires\\" may yet make a comeback. But he acknowledges that they are not sustainable absent an over-arching ideology powerful to overcome nationalism, such as counter-reformation in the Habsburg Empire in XVI and XVII centuries or Communism in the Soviet Union (or Nazism in the Third Reich, or Islam in the Ottoman Empire). Whether contemporary multinational \\"empires\\" have such ideologies is not obvious (particularly defficient in this respect is the European Union).<br />Although Lieven is erudite and writes engagingly, and in spite of the interest of his mildly revisionist views on the Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian empires, I missed some of the other empires that competed with the Russians in their quest for continental mastery.  A small chapter dealing with the Baltics (Polish, Swedish and Lithuanians) would have been useful. A major rival empire that fought Russia not once but twice within the XX century, Japan, is barely mentioned. And British rivalry with Russia in the context of the \\"Big Game\\" (over Afghanistan) also is mentioned only in passing.<BR> <BR>Still, it's difficult not to like such a sane writer, who clearly sees that apparatchik kleptocrats such as those lording it over most of the former Soviet Union (and some of its satellites) are probably preferable to gaunt, angry cultural nationalists who are still waiting on the wings and sometimes getting their licks in (when the two groups merge, as in Milosevic's Serbia, the results are scary indeed).  The same point was made perhaps more humoristically by P.J. O'Rourke in some of his earlier books.  He sees very clearly that the Soviet Union was just a nastier version of the Russian empire and faced some of the same problems, such as dealing with large, rich, culturally distinct \\"colonies\\" (such as Poland). He clearly misses the multi-cultural empires such as the Austro-Hungarian empire (a short detour on the Spanish-Italo-Belgian empire would not have been amiss either), which he believes looks positively dazzling when compared with the hellishness of Hitler's Ostmark and the colonization of Soviet times. Whether his domesticated empires (of which the European Union is the most recent version) will survive is anybody's guess.	2003-04-27
US	51127281	R378FS6PIA6PWQ	0691024707	435159828	Vladimir Nabokov : The Russian Years	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great book- Even better than Nabokov himself, at times	Having read what little Nabokov anyone has read (Lolita) I exchanged this book for a Bogart biography I received as birthday present. I was hooked and, having read the whole book through in a few days, I bought the second volume and I wasn't let down. The book is a jewel and Nabokov becomes almost as close an acquaintance of the reader as Johnson became per Boswell's book. <br />The elegiac childhood that Nabokov enjoyed as the son of an upper class family of political liberals and Russian patriots is hard to imagine given the awfulness of Russian history since the 1905. After the death of his grandfather Nabokov became a millionaire at age 10. His family was close knit and loving (which may explain his deep love for his wife Véra and his son Dmitri, named after Vladimir's father). The Nabokovs managed to escape Russia from their Crimean summer house and eventually ended up in Germany, where they endured hardship and persecution. Nabokov's father, who had been an Education Minister during Kerensky's brief democratic administration, was murdered by an extreme-nationalist from the \\"Black Hundreds\\", a paramilitary organisation. Amazingly, Nabokov never bored to learn German although he lived in Germany for twenty years because he felt German would destroy his gift for Russian. His French was flawless, though (he died in French Switzerland). His meeting of the beautiful, brilliant Véra is touching, a rare moment of perfection on this cursed globe, and they became a very close couple. Mrs Nabokov was much more than a wife: she was a soul-mate and a loving collaborator in all Nabokov's efforts. Nabokov, in spite of his poverty managed to continue to live with aristocratic non-chalance and was always able to afford extensive and elaborate holidays that nowadays are only possible for the very well-to-do. The book ends as the Nabokovs and young Dmitri move to America, barely escaping France before the German invasion. Better times were yet to come, and they are aptly toldin the second volume.<br />Most of the books Nabokov wrote in this period were in Russian and thus they have not been as widely divulged as his books in English. I can't appreciate their quality, not reading Russian, but Boyd notes many references of experts which regarded them as some of the best writing in Russian in the 20th century, and more deserving of a Nobel prize than either Pasternak or Solzhenitzn.<br />The title of my review will probably be deplored by many Nabokov fans, but in fact I was deeply attracted to Nabokov's elegance, charm and tolerance, by his revulsion to snobbery (he was always annoyed by some Europeans' disdain for US culture or some Russian emigrés' disgust at the accent of Jewish Russian speakers), by his unerring political sense that led him to distrust most extremisms of the last century (he was one of the few important authors not to have written blatant political nonsense), and very much enjoyed his curious interest in butterflies (his fantasy of a lavish, multi-volume Encyclopedia of butterflies of the Russian Empire smacks of Borges to me), and his extensive work at Harvard concerning them (he does have a species to his name). Boyd's descriptions led to me seek Nabokov's literal translation of Pushkin's epical poem, Eugene Onegin (I found the translation unreadable, as many people have), and, in spite of Boyd's wonderful summaries, I couldn't really get into some of Nabokov' other works in English (Ada or Ardor and Pale Fire I thought too modernist for my taste- his literary criticism was great, although I winced at his evident distaste for Jane Austen- and shared his love for Dickens). But Nabokov is as great a writer as he as a biographer's subject, and Boyd's book is probably the best literary biography after The Life of Johnson. I heartily recommend it (it's great even if you haven't actually read Nabokov).	2003-04-12
US	51127281	R2JTXND2GEL82Q	0060188804	657007054	In the Footsteps of Mr. Kurtz: Living on the Brink of Disaster in Mobutu's Congo	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not just a big crook	I was goig to write a review of this most amusing book, but found that Mr. Henderson had beaten me to it. Following his cogent and penetrating review I find there isn't much left to say. However, in the best tradition of reviewers everywhere, I would like to refer to other parts of the book, which I found to be very entertaining. In the Constitution of a region of Zaire that wanted to secede from Mobutu's Kinshasa government there was an article (article 15) suggesting to anyone who wanted the government's protection or support to \\"take care of your own business\\" (\\"debrouillez-vous\\"), which essentially the legal form of Mobutu's dictum that corruption was OK so long as it wasn't excessive (President Turbay of Colombia said the same thing in 1978, although he didn't manage to hang around as long as Mobutu did). There is an operating nuclear reactor in Zaire. An enriched uranium core disappeared recently, only to resurface in the hands of the Sicilian mafia. A profet jailed by the Belgians who believed himself to be the incarnation of the Holy Ghost created a church complete with hierarchy and miracles and Holy Writ. Mobutu kept twins as lovers, to ward off malignant influences from his defunct first wife's spirit. I agree with Mr. Brokesley that the soul of the story is Mr. Mobutu. A cunning man, he had that rare combination of shamelessness and grandeur. One would need to go back to Mussolini or Napoleon III to find a similar European mindset. He wasn't a psycopath like other African leaders (such as Francisco Macias NGuema, Idi Amin Dada or Jean-Bedel Bokassa), and while he robbed the country of its lifeblood, bringing it back into the middle ages, he did it much more amusingly than other leaders could have done (who ever heard of a good anecdote about Robert Mugabe or Daniel Arap Moi, who are just as big crooks as Mobutu ever was?). Mobutu shared in the spoils of corruption, and allowed even non-family members to take part in the feast. This is much more than other tyrants (such as Somoza, Trujillo, Khadaffi, Saddam Husseim or Suharto) ever did. Yes, he was a bad guy, responsible for untold misery, but he wasn't as bad as some of the others in his line of business.  So, if you ever want to see what happens when the rule of law is absent and all social constraints implode, this is the book for you	2003-03-10
US	51127281	R38W28LCD4RD49	1585671975	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA	Books	5	24	26	N	N	What's wrong with this book? At 894 pages it's too short!	I am not a big fan of spy novels, in the same way that I don't tend to favour genre fiction. However, having read a shining review for this book in \\"The Economist\\", which is not a normally frivolous publication, I picked it up and read it from cover to cover in a few days. The book is a compulsive page-turner. The story is nothing less than that of the CIA from its inception in 1950 to the end of the Cold War in 1992, seen through the lives of several CIA and KGB operatives. The story is rigorously researched and the period details seem to be perfectly portrayed (I am a big fan of contemporary history, and did not find any significant flaws in the book). They follow our boys (mostly boys in this book, no big surprise there) from Berlin in 1950 to Budapest in 1956, to Havana in 1960, to Washington and Moscow in 1974, to Afghanistan in 1983, to Moscow in 1991, with a brief coda somewhere in Virginia in 1995. The main fictional characters are three CIA agents who join at the beginning and then rise through the ranks. They are two-fisted action man Jack McAuliffe, honourable attorney (sic) Winstrom Ebbitt III and efficient organiser Leo Kritzky. An additional character who plays an important role is drunken and deadly Harvey Torriti, the Sorcerer, head of Berlin base at the beginning of the Cold War. Their counterparts are a KGB operative named Yevgeny Tsipin and spymaster Starik (the Old Man). Each of the episodes follows all these characters as the CIA spooks try to outsmart the KGB spies, and vice versa. Many historical figures drop by, some of them in a clearly ficionalised take on their lives. Thus, Martin Bormann is introduced to Yevgeny as a Communist hero who fed Hitler's paranoia and led him to eventually lose the war, Pope John Paul I is shown to have been murdered by a KGB operative for stepping too close to the truth of the dreaded Kholstomer, a far-ranging operation to bring the West to its knees, and statesmen such as Harold Wilson and Henry Kissinger areshown to have been nothing more than KGB agents.     Some of the best parts of the book concern the author's obvious delight in spy craft. Many familiar devices such as cypher books, dead box drops, barium meals and all types of bugs turn up, and we learn a few new ones, such as walking back the cat (don't ask). Littell's spies are thoroughly professional and their work is hard, dangerous and unappreciated. Old spies such as The Sorcerer, the historic James Jesus Angleton or Starik die alone, forgotten by all, or almost all. The set pieces (the Soviet invasion of Budapest in 1956, the Bay of Pigs fiasco in 1960 or the attempted coup in Moscow in 1991) are very well put together and hugely exciting. Political leaders, both American and Soviet (Eisenhower, Bobby Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, Mijail Gorbachev) come out particularly poorly as they misunderstand the very valuable intelligence information they receive and abandon their agents and allies whenever expedient. A recurrent motif, in fact, is how US governments have usually abandoned local allies to the wolves whenever things got nasty (the Hungarians in 1956, the anti-Castrista Cubans in 1960, the Czechs in 1968, the Taiwanese in 1972, friendly Vietnamese in 1975 and friendly Cambodians in that same year).    The book is definitely a must read for any fan of conspiracy theories, as it sets out quite a few that are literally mindboggling. And the leitmotiv (Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass) is apposite and never distracting.    Does the book have any weaknesses? Contrary to what may initially appear it's too damn short! Operation Kholstomer, which is built up very nicely as the standard issue mortal threat to global democracy unravels too quickly. Surely there could have been an additional chapter describing how it would have worked and specifying how it was defeated? Starik's perverted liking for pre-pubescent girls is probably unnecessary and contrived to make him the obvious baddy (although it is a nice touch since it shows a sort of malignant reflection on the historic Lewis Carroll). And the discovery of über KGB mole Sasha is too easy because Littell does not really create memorable characters and so his hints of the mole's real identity are somewhat transparent.    But these are minor quibbles. Markus Wolf once said that the only really competent intelligence services were East Germany's Stasi, Israel's Mossad and Cuba's DGI. They all turn up in this book, plus the big guys we love to see (KGB and CIA). How can you lose with this lineup?	2002-12-11
US	51127281	RMNJ6OKEOLPS9	0465049087	441473878	Nazi Terror: The Gestapo, Jews, and Ordinary Germans	Books	4	19	20	N	N	First they came for the Communists	When I read this book I wasn't surprised about its main thesis.  It is a well-known fact that even the most dictatorial of governments manage to hang on to power only by judiciously dosing out the terror they choose to inflict.  A regime that descends into an orgy of blood-letting against its own citizens, such as Pol Pot's Cambodia, or Idi Amin's Uganda or Macias Nguema's Equatorial Guinea can only become undone.  It is also a well-known fact that most people have no strong views about events that don't affect them personally, and are willing to give significant leeway to the authorities provided they feel that they feel they are improving their own lot even if it comes at the price of persecutions against widely disliked miscreants such as Communist agitators, turbulent priests, religious sectarians (such as Jehova's Witnesses), homosexuals and Jews.<br /><br />In this book, Johnson analyses the Gestapo's modus operandi throughout the Third Reich.  He uses a medium-sized city and the surrounding small towns and countryside to paint a picture of the whole country.  He reviews the files for several typical crimes, such as listening to foreign radio broadcasts or criticising government policies or Nazi bigwigs.  He also follows the career of the Gestapo officials in the region from the beginning to the end of the Third Reich.  He concludes that most Gestapo officials were typical policemen, and many in fact had careers that dated to Weimar Republic and even Imperial times, that there weren't too many of them (contrary to popular belief, the Gestapo was not omnipresent and rarely acted unless called in by interested parties) and that, up to the end of the war, most people were left alone even when they violated the laws.  Only targeted groups, such as those mentioned above, were persecuted mercilessly.  In his interviews he concludes that most Germans did not fear the police, and in fact rarely came in contact with them at all.  The ubiquitous informants that most of us associate with Nazi Germany never existed (they would become very real in the post-war German Democratic Republic), and such accusations, when they came up, were frequently disregarded by the Gestapo, who were aware that the denouncers were often disgruntled relatives or former friends of the accused, out for revenge.  In short, the Gestapo were not a band of sadists and thugs, but a very professional tool in the hands of a ruthless government.  Something that comes across very clear is that the type of person who went into the Gestapo was not politically motivated, but merely a more or less efficient follower of orders.  Which is not to say that persecuted minorities had no reason to fear for their life and property.  It is just to mean that an unusually orderly, law-abiding populace had usually no reasons to worry about this risk.  The persecutorial madness actually came to happen in the last winter of the War, when the Gestapo seems to have gone berserk and dedicated itself to random imprisonment and torture, often of a vile nature.  In Johnson's story there was even the obligatory B-movie sadistical female guard who organised orgies with unwilling prisoners, whom she killed by the score.  The real nature of the regime, and its deep nihilism were exposed in its final throes.  In the small corner of Germany covered by Johnson we see some of the horrible dispair and collapse of everything human that comes across so vividly in Beevor's \\"The Fall of Berlin 1945\\" and Trevor-Roper's \\"The Last Days of Hitler\\" (Joachim Fest has recently written a book on the subject \\"Der Untergang\\", but it hasn't yet been translated into English).  Of great interest is finding out what happened with the Gestapo members after the War.  According to Johnson most of them were purged from the police force, and a few were blacklisted from government employment, but most were quickly cleared of any wrongdoing, and a few went back to their old jobs (one hopes, having learned a few lessons-but maybe not).  Most of them had no trouble producing character witnesses, including many from persecuted groups themselves.  This is not surprising, given that authorities often spared some while persecuting others of the same group, and it would be hard to find someone who never helped anyone.<br /><br />Having read the book didn't change my views on the matter of the larger German public's responsibility for the Third Reich and the Holocaust.  As Johnson shows, most people were remarkably free to gain information and disseminate it, and in several occasions were able to change government policies through organised protests (such as those against deportation or Mischlinge relatives of German citizens or forced euthanasia).  The view that Germans were cowed by a totalitarian power that would have destroyed anyone daring to lift his or her voice is a fantasy.  One thing I took from the book was new admiration for unlikely figures of sympathy: the Jehova's Witnesses.  I formerly saw these sectarians as somewhat comical figures doggedly pursuing the uninterested with their tedious \\"Watchtower\\" journal.  I now respect them.  They had a power of resistance in the face of annihilation that is deeply respectable.  In spite of the hopelessness of their task, they never surrendered, and bit the hand that strangled them.  When we see misfits such as Muslims or vagrants being mistreated or persecuted, let us never forget Pastor Martin Niem&ouml;ller's famous lines:<br /><br />First they came for the Jews<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a Jew.<br /><br />Then they came for the communists<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a communist.<br /><br />Then they came for the trade unionists<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a trade unionist.<br /><br />Then they came for me -<br />and by then there was no one left to speak out for me.t maybe not).  Most of them had no trouble producing character witnesses, including many from persecuted groups themselves.  This is not surprising, given that authorities often spared some while persecuting others of the same group, and it would be hard to find someone who never helped anyone.<br /><br />Having read the book didn't change my views on the matter of the larger German public's responsibility for the Third Reich and the Holocaust.  As Johnson shows, most people were remarkably free to gain information and disseminate it, and in several occasions were able to change government policies through organised protests (such as those against deportation or Mischlinge relatives of German citizens or forced euthanasia).  The view that Germans were cowed by a totalitarian power that would have destroyed anyone daring to lift his or her voice is a fantasy.  One thing I took from the book was new admiration for unlikely figures of sympathy: the Jehova's Witnesses.  I formerly saw these sectarians as somewhat comical figures doggedly pursuing the uninterested with their tedious \\"Watchtower\\" journal.  I now respect them.  They had a power of resistance in the face of annihilation that is deeply respectable.  In spite of the hopelessness of their task, they never surrendered, and bit the hand that strangled them.  When we see misfits such as Muslims or vagrants being mistreated or persecuted, let us never forget Pastor Martin Niem&ouml;ller's famous lines:<br /><br />First they came for the Jews<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a Jew.<br /><br />Then they came for the communists<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a communist.<br /><br />Then they came for the trade unionists<br />and I did not speak out - because I was not a trade unionist.<br /><br />Then they came for me -<br />and by then there was no one left to speak out for me.	2002-08-08
US	51127281	R338UWAWRJHJTP	1900512971	878169301	Class Act	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Class- it never goes away, does it?	This short book is the British journalist's story of how she coped with her need to reach above her class.  This is a familiar scenario for many Americans: lower middle-class Englishwoman manages, through intelligent marriages and hard-work, to move away from the world of aitches, tea-cosies, tabloids, barc-a-loungers and lottery into the world of velvet-collar riding jackets, carved walking sticks, Barbours and picnic hampers with cristal glasses.  She is sometimes insightful, although her non-English readers will often struggle to identify particular people she mentions (she is a tireless name-dropper).  Although I'm fascinated by class divisions, this book ultimately disappointed me, because it did not really provide any insight into the English class structure, and particularly into its evolution since the 1950s, when it was still very much an &quot;upstairs-downstairs&quot; sort of thing.  If you care about this subject from a less solipsistic (if American) perspective, read Paul Fussell's &quot;Class&quot;.  If you want to read Ms Lee-Potter's book, get the paperback version when it comes out, or borrow it from someone else.  He won't miss it.	2002-08-08
US	51127281	R1OTVVIB3FL36N	0679771867	223977650	The American Way of Death Revisited	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Worthy of Evelyn Waugh	Jessica Mitford's \\"The American Way of Death\\" picks up were Waugh's \\"The Loved One\\" ended. Her main point is that \\"funeral homes\\" and \\"funeral directors\\" are all humbug, dedicated to fleecing the grieving by taking advantage of a very trying time. She believes a tasteful funeral should not require expensive caskets or make-up work, and in fact did not require it until very recently. She is uniquely qualified to make these points, for she brings to the table her family's exemplary English aristocratic disdain to the maudlin and often crass world of the \\"Death Industry\\". She shows how funeral chains have taken over the task of conveying the dead to their final resting place, which before was handled by churches or smaller, local outfits. She lambasts their hard-sell tactics, their opaque pricing and their often mendacious services agreements, and sees it as a conspiracy against the living. She concludes that most funeral parlours are controlled by the manufacturers of caskets and accessories, which might explain the cut-and-thrust nature of the business (...). She shows that the significant expense incurred in preparing the dead for the casket during the wake (...) is unjustified, given that it really doesn't guarantee that the body won't decompose as the Industry claims. <br />What way out from this organised thievery? She suggests cremation, preceded by the setting up of mutual organisations that would carry out the task for the benefit of their members while only aiming to cover their costs (...). She mocks the pseudo-genteel world of \\"funeral directors\\" and \\"funeral homes\\", and concludes that this is a way for these people to move themselves up from the unlovely world of morticians were they come from. In this she is as funny as her sister Nancy in her list of \\"U\\" and \\"Non-U\\" words. She may be cruel, but she is always funny, and almost always right. This is a subject people prefer not to dwell on, but it's too important to be left to Death's Merchants.	2002-08-08
US	51127281	RTFIX6Q7FTESK	0691010935	705490845	Beria: Stalin's First Lieutenant	Books	5	70	79	N	N	Don't like office politics?  Read this book, then!	Having just read this, the only book-length biography of Lavrentii Beria, Stalin's most powerful henchman, I wondered if I would have survived in Beria's world.  Office politics in the Stalinist USSR was not just about bitching by the water cooler and trying to suck up to the boss (although such elements were also present, writ large).  Even surviving in such an environment required degrees of political acumen and sheer nastiness that very few people need to demonstrate in our herbivorous times.  Even as an apparatchik reached his goal of near-absolute power (say, Yagoda, Ezhov or Zhdanov) he would find himself subtly undermined.  Even as someone was appointed to the Central Committee he would find that key associates carefully placed across the state and party apparatus were being removed to the coziness of the Lubianka or Kolyma.  <br />In this world, which was described quite well by Hayek's The Road to Serfdom, in a chapter titled \\"Why the Worst Get on Top\\", Beria was almost bound to rise (although, for political reasons, Hayek was describing Nazi Germany rather than the USSR).  He was a Mingrelian, a minority ethnic group in Georgia, and, like Stalin, he was brought up by his mother after his father's early death.  He rose rapidly through the ranks of the political police and eventually managed to become Georgian and then Transcaucasian party boss (he even killed a few competitors in the way).  Ezhov's \\"Great Terror\\" of 1936-1937 paved the way for a takeover by Beria, who consolidated his position during the war and then by heading the nuclear weapons project.  A brilliant manager, who was able to get on well with those he worked with (but who had no compunction about delivering them to their deaths if it served his purposes) he always delivered.  Unlike Stalin, he was not interested in praises (although he organised his own personality cult for practical reasons) and was reasonable enough to tell the difference between real enemies and loyal followers.  Womenwere his weakness.  Ms Knight, a serious historian, does not indulge her readers with lurid stories about girls picked up in Moscow streets and then killed in the basement of Beria's town house, but she does mention that Beria was treated for siphilis during the War.  As Stalin aged, be became more and more deranged and eventually wanted to be rid of Beria and his Mingrelians.  Unlike other historians, such as Edvard Radzinsky, the author does not speculate about Beria's possible role in Stalin's demise in March 1953, although she concludes that only this saved Beria from the destiny of many of his predecessors.  While Beria's energetic attempts at de-Stalinisation were already known (Beria's lieutenant Pavel Sudoplatov had already mentioned them in his book \\"Special Operations\\"), Ms Knight elaborates on how wide-ranging they would have been had Beria succeeded in consolidating his grip on power.  Indeed, it is quite possible that glasnost might have come more than 30 years before Gorbachov came to power, and that it would have been implemented from a position of strength rather than one of weakness (in 1953 the Soviet Union was at the top of its power, having succeeded in launching a Hydrogen bomb and having established control over North Korea).  German re-unification might have happened in the 1950s rather than the early 1990s, and would have been much less costly and disruptive.  On the other hand, it's also possible that Beria might have backtracked after attaining his goal, which was only power for himself.  As Ms Knight shows, Beria, like most Soviet politicians had only very slight concern about policies, reserving most of his time and effort for power politics.  His downfall was swift, and to be frank, required significant courage from Kruschev and Malenkov.  Kruschev comes out of this book (like he did in Volkogonov's Stalin) as a devious henchman who was no less guilty than Beria, but far less able.  <br />It is interesting to see that the downfall of Soviet leaders in the period 1948-1990 was associated with failures to control events in their zones of influence.  Beria's downfall started with the breakup of Soviet-Yugoslav relations in 1948 and concluded in 1953, due to demonstrations in Eastern Germany.  Kruschev's downfall came in 1964, after he badly miscalculated the risk in transporting nuclear warheads to Cuba.  Gorbachov's fall was associated with failure over Germany in 1989.  As it was, Kruschov's de-Stalinisation was probably much less comprehensive than Beria's would have been.  A nice complement to Ms Knight's book is Sergo Beria's recently published \\"Beria My Father\\".  One last comment: Ms Knight's book is not for the casual reader.  Even for someone who has read Conquest, Pipes, Volkogonov, Radzinsky, Bullock and Ulan it is sometimes difficult to keep straight all the unfamiliar names and party organisations, especially in Transcaucasia.  The book would have gained from a few charts illustrating who worked when and where with Ezhov, Beria, Kruschev, Zhdanov or Malenkov.  A \\"power map\\", with Stalin on top and the various top leaders and their key protegees would also have been useful.  If you haven't read much Soviet history you should probably stay clear of this book, as it probably is not the most suitable one for a novice.<br />Stalin once famously introduced Beria to some Americans as \\"Our Himmler\\" (Ms Knight has ommitted this anecdote, and I wonder whether that was because she didn't believe it really happened).  If one compares Ms Knight's Beria with, for example, Peter Padfield's Himmler (although his book is clearly much less scholarly than Ms Knight's) one can see that Beria was much more realistic and efficient than Himmler.  The correct comparison is between Beria and Heydrich.  Had the Third Reich truly been a totalitarian state, Himmler would have gone the way of Yagoda and Heydrich would have been Hitler's Beria.  With Goering liquidated during the purges that would have followed, the entire foreign service culled for unreliable elements such as Ambassador Schulenburg and the Wermacht rid of likely conspirators such as Claus von Stauffenberg, it is possible that the War might have ended otherwise.  But that's a different subject.	2002-07-30
US	51127281	R115NPAGE03GFX	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Black fiction from a middle class perspective	Although black influence may be discerned in many strands of modern popular culture, from sports to stand-up comedy, from music to fashion and movies, one couldn't say that this has also been the case for fiction.  Professor Carter's book is a welcome first step in populating a compelling plot-driven narrative with characters we haven't heard from before (or at least, not to my knowledge).  In \\"The Emperor of Ocean Park\\" black university graduates with high-powered jobs and all sorts of material comforts are resolutely center-stage.  In Philip Roth's \\"The Human Stain\\", the main character must resign his blackness to achieve success and power in the academical world.  Carter's characters never resign their race to be successful in the white man's world.  The main voice is Talcott Garland's.  He is a lawyer in his forties, a professor of law in an ivy-league-ish university, which in spite of Carter's denial in a post-scriptum is a straigth forward rendition of Yale Law School, where the author teaches.  Garland is a complex man, not a cypher, surely a cut above the generic \\"cut-and-paste\\" renditions typical of modern popular fiction.  He is slightly overweight, not very likeable (he is aloof and emotionally remote), very much his father's son.  The father, the eponymous \\"Emperor of Ocean Park\\", is Oliver Garland, known in the book as \\"The Judge\\", a composite of Associate Justice Clarence Thomas, Judge Robert Bork and famous intellectual Thomas Sowell.  A moderately conservative civil rights lawyer, he is appointed to a federal judgeship in the District of Columbia Appelate Court where he moves increasingly to the right.  In the Reagan era he is nominated to the Supreme Court, but he must withdraw his candidacy when certain sordid associations become known to the public.  He then joins a Washington D.C. firm as counsel and rakes in fat fees as a very popular public speaker.  The Judge has shaped his children sometimes in ways he didn't mean to.  The first born, Addison, is a rebel who refuses to be subject to his fathers very exacting standards of emotional self-control.  His daughter, Mariah, the cleverest of all, has withdrawn from intellectual life to become wife of a rich white banker and mother of a large brood.  Talcott has fled the rough and tumble of political life to become a tenured professor, and is stuck with Kimberley, a woman he adores, although she doesn't love him and may be cheating on him.  A third daughter, Abby, died long ago, run over by a car that then fled the scene of the accident.  This death is the catalyst of all that happens afterwards.  The Judge is dead at the beginning of the book, and Talcott is quickly assailed by all sorts of shady figures who are looking for the Judge's arrangements.  Talcott has no idea of what this means, and he struggles till the book's very end to find the arrangements and keep himself and his family alive.  There is a complex chess problem (whose relevance is perhaps less clearly conveyed than the author intended) and several sub-plots to keep the reader occupied.  Those thinking about buying the book should not be dissuaded by its heft. The book is a page turner and it has the right mixture of plot, action and rumination to keep the reader interested.  It is also evidence that a book may be compelling without a single overtly sexual set-piece, without unnecessary profanity and without obsessive concern by fashionable slang or luxury good brands.  This book will still be readable in fifty years without a special dictionary.<br />Many people have commented on the detailed rendition on the specifics of middle class lives.  The big surprise is that these lives are similar to those of their white counterparts.  Middle class blacks are hard working achievers, sometimes hindered by emotional distance and obsessive self-pondering.  Perhaps one key point is that this is not the middle class as such that we are regarding, but the upper-middle class, with their large townhouses in Washington D.C. (\\"the Gold Coast\\") and their summer places in the Vineyard and the Hamptons.<br />We should expect this book to be slaughtered in the movie version, with Denzel Washington as Talcott, Morgan Freeman as the Judge, Hale Berry as Kimberley and Angela Basset as Maxine.  Gene Hackman would be a good Justice Worthington.  Read the book before you see the inevitable movie.  It will only spoil the fun if you do otherwise.	2002-07-29
US	51127281	R1VF435Z48WBVI	037570714X	153021170	The Mystic Masseur	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Is Gordon Ramsay OBE really sir Vidia Naipaul?	The Mystic Masseur was Naipaul's first novel, and it is probably the best known of his works (a movie has been turned out by Messrs. Merchant & Ivory). The main character is one Ganesh Ramsumair, the son of an Indian immigrant to Trinidad, who seems to be blessed by fortune. Each time he is in danger of taking a wrong turn, his fate steps in and gently nudges him in the right direction. Ganesh first attends school in Port of Spain, where he feels inadequate and has only one friend, clever anglophile Indarsingh, who leaves for Oxford upon graduation. Ganesh then attends a teacher's college, and takes a position as an elementary school teacher. He is not a success and resigns his position for a life of idleness, which is ended when his father dies, bequeathing to him some land and some royalties from an oil company. When attending his father's funeral he meets his formidable relation, The Great Belcher, who is one of these wise elderly Indian women who are accostumed to running funerals, marriages, businesses and lives for their younger folk. He also meets Ramlogan, extremely unpleasant owner of a rhum shop who is quarrelsome but cowardly, and not above any underhandedness (he will turn up again and play a crucial part in Naipaul's \\"The Suffrage of Elvira\\"), whose daughter Leela he marries. Much more devious than would appear initially, Ganesh takes advantage of Ramlogan's pride and extracts from him a house in a remote village and a significant dowry. This is fortunate, because at this time the oil royalty checks stop coming in. Ganesh and Leela move into the Ramlogan's house, and quickly become acquainted with the local rhum-shop owner, Suruj Poopa, who becomes Ganesh's true friend and sounding board. Ganesh spends several years doing nothing much except reading and trying to launch a career as a masseur, but he is apparently not very good at it. He even writes a short book on the Hindu religion, but it doesn't sell. Leela, desperate at his lack of direction tries to convince him to take a job working for the Americans in their military base (WWII is now in force), but fate takes a hand when the Great Belcher and Suruj Poopa advice Ganesh to become a mystic. As a mystic he is extremely successful, performing miraculous cures and eventually becoming a public figure. His prosperity communicates to the entire village where he lives, and to his friends the Surujs, and even his father in law, with whom he quarrels again and again. Eventually, after defeating his rival Narayan (peculiar, this choice of a name) he becomes a leader of the Hindu vote in Trinidad, and a Member of the Legislative Chamber. Initially a leftist (he and Indarsingh try to articulate the theory of Socialinduism, a melange of Hindu nationalism and scientific socialism) and a firebrand (frequently arrested for criticizing government corruption), he then becomes a pillar of the establishment, and is finally rechristened Sir Gordon Ramsay, OBE. His Trinidadian dialect becomes the cut-glass accent of the BBC and his Indian garb is replaced by a bespoke vested suit.<br />The story, thus told, loses the sense of destiny that Naipaul is able to weave in through the expert use of atmosphere and character. The self-discovery of Ganesh from his humble origins is very well-rendered, and many characters are memorable(especially Leela, Ramlogan, Suruj Poopa and an unnamed boy who helps Ganesh edit his newspaper). The liberating power of reading the great books (which is what Ganesh reads, rather than the lowbrow fare that Mohun Biswas gobbles up in \\"A House for Mister Biswas\\") is something that must have rung true for Naipaul (as it did for this reviewer). Several themes (the power of small events to have great consequences, and the almost unlimited scope for personal re-invention) were probably also derived from the author's own experience. This book is a triumph and a jewel.	2002-07-26
US	51127281	R3UHEHUUMOQML8	0679779078	226385792	The Shadow of the Sun	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The dream that was and the reality that is Africa	I must confess that I have never visited Africa.  I know it only through books, and to a lesser extent, TV and movies.  The older books on Africa emphasized its alienness, and the archetipal treatment of the continent and its peoples is that of Conrad's Heart of Darkness.  And most of the recent books I've read about Africa (like Michela Wrong's \\"In the Footsteps of Mr Kurtz\\", Adam Hochschild's \\"King Leopold's Ghost\\", Phillip Gourevitch's \\"We Wish to Inform you that Tomorrow we Will be Killed with Our Families\\", or Giles Foden's \\"The Last King of Scotland\\", or certain parts of Paul Theroux's \\"Sir Vidia's Shadow\\") focus on the breakdown of the continent and its apparently bottomless ability to disappoint even the most meagre expectations.  <br />Kapuscinski's book takes a different tack.  The book reviews the author's experiences of Africa over a period of over 40 years.  Although the narrative does not shy of notorious characters (like Uganda's Idi Amin or Liberia's Samuel Doe) or episodes (like the Rwandan Tutsi genocide or the Ethiopian-Somali war), his focus are the common people, the \\"bayaye\\", or uprooted peasants, swept into the smouldering cities by the winds of war or hunger.  He lives with these people in their \\"bidonvilles\\" (slums), travels with them in clattering buses and visits them in the bush and the desert.  As he proudly notes, most other foreign journalists usually stick to a few international hotels or white enclaves, and rarely stray form the well-beaten track (he mentions the incredulity of a colleague, who couldn't understand why he would visit one of the smaller countries if he wasn't meeting with the President).  <br />Kapuscinski did not want to confine his relationship with Africa to living the comfortable life of a white expat while reporting on the activities of the official classes (which doesn't mean that he doesn't go all the way for a story, such as being the first foreign correspondent to visit Zanzibar during the Black takeover against the Arabs).  As Poland's most famous foreign correspondent, it was his privilege to arrive to Africa during the late 1950s, when the independence movements were starting to come together and Africa was rather a land of hope.  He captures very well the elan of that hopeful point in time, when it seemed that the blight of colonialism would be erased and the new African nations would take control of their destinies and use their extraordinary natural and human resources to improve everyone's lot.  He narrates how inter-tribal warfare, corruption and Western (especially French) meddling put that illusion to rest, and does not flinch from describing the awfulness of the more recent years (using Liberia as a proxy for many other countries).  He prefers not to write about notorious events, such as South Africa's evolution from Apartheid or the former Zaire's disintegration in the post-Mobutu era.  He does not like to be obvious, and prefers to tell us that which others haven't told.  In spite of his sympathy towards the people he writes about, Kapuscinski is never sentimental, and never condescending.  Those wishing to read about Africa as cultural cradle to the world or beacon of a superior communitarian culture should go back to their well thumbed copies of Bernal's \\"Black Athena\\".  Those wishing to know what it was, and is really like, should read Kapuscinski.  Having read the book, my impression that things will not right themselves and that Africa will not pull through has been strengthened.  So in the end maybe Kapusckinski's view is not so different from some of the writers mentioned above.  But he takes his readers through the scenic route to reach it.	2002-07-25
US	51127281	R14PEVOBA0YV66	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Why not have the salad?	This book is not the anticapitalist rant that one might have expected, but rather a business case about the fast food industry.  It starts by reviewing the impact this industry has on its suppliers, and shows very cogently that the consolidation of the fast food industry has also led to the consolidation of the suppliers of meat and potatoes, key inputs in the industry.  Basically, there are less and less slaughterhouse operators, and there is more and more pressure to cut costs (this is unavoidable when the number of buyers -fast food and supemarket chains- is also dropping).  Schlosser shows the dismal living and working conditions of a mostly illiterate, migrant worker population.  If human pain and misery weren't enough, he also gives us the repulsive way in which cattle are brought up and slaughtered, and the many opportunities for infection that line the way from pasture to restaurant table.  His depiction of the artificial smells and tastes industry is brilliant.  I didn't know that most of the taste of the French fries served in fast food joints is chemical in nature, and that those fries might also have tasted of chocolate or mint.  <br />He is less interesting when he reviews the way a typical fast food chain works (perhaps because we are closer to that experience), but nonetheless it is worth knowing that this industry is the biggest employer of young, unqualified workers in the US, and that it is grueling work (which might explain the vacant stare of many \\"Would you like fries with that\\" drones.  And surely many of us had misgivings about the food, given the way it's probably handled, away from our view?  The fact that the \\"training\\" that fast food workers receive is deductible even though it's totally useless outside of the industry should be prima facie indication of the power of the industry as a lobby.<br />No one can fault Schlosser's statements that the fast food chains have materially reduced the variety of the eating experience, that whenever they move in, obesity follows in their wake, and that they are built on the sweat and blood of immigrants and teenagers (not to mention the mistreatment of animals and the frequent belly-aches of consumers).  Did you know that recalling contaminated meat is virtually imposible unless done with the meat packer's consent?  I sure didn't.  Clearly, the enforcement of health and safety regulations in slaughterhouses is imperative, and it is a shame that health and safety inspectorates do not have sufficient personnel or funds to do their jobs properly.  Isn't people's safety important, and should we be able to trust that the food we buy from well-established chains is fit to eat?  It is also sad that well-heeled lobbyists manage to control the flow of information about the industry.  I have been doing my bit for the past ten years, and have abstained since from the artery-choking, animal fat-saturated, manhandled and misshapen [junk-food].  Why not do the same?  Why not eat something nutritious, something that might titillate your taste buds or open to you the door to new culinary-cultural experiences?  Or if you can't afford it, or don't have the time for it, why not just have the salad (no fries or coke, thank you very much).	2002-07-08
US	51127281	R33YEC3CJBXXZ5	0374236437	707644275	Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution	Books	5	19	25	N	N	You may drive out nature with a pitchfork,	...When Fukuyama, in his latest book, published a few months ago, takes to task large segments of the scientifical and bioethical community, we should pay attention, for he is rarely misinformed and never less than cogent in his analyses.  The author's main point is that human nature, and the social and political institutions built on it (such as democracy, the rule of law and the capitalist market), is at risk from changes in biotechnology, such as neuropharmacology (drugs capable of altering human behaviour in radical ways), or longevity-enhancement treatments, or genetical manipulation of the unborn.  He makes a brave attempt at showing that the concept of human nature is meaningful and even necessary in this debate, and that it must not be grounded in religion necessarily.  His criticism of the disregard for human nature often exhibited by scientists (even in this day and age) is chilling, and goes a long way in convincing the reader that a short leash is in order when human dignity and human rights are at stake.  He shows very clearly that the main risk from genetic manipulation does not come from eugenistic states intent on eliminating the inferior- as in Hitler's Germany-, but from the law of unintended consequences (which in economics is termed social externalities).  There is just no way of knowing the impact that genetic manipulation will have, especially if left in the hands of ambitious parents desirous of giving their offspring an early start in life's struggle.  A probable consequence is the rise of real, biologically-grounded aristocracies, who in fairness should be accepted as a perpetual ruling class.  Plato's chilling description of a perfect state, in which superior minds and bodies govern the vast majority of untermenschen, neither mixing nor pitying them, could actually come into existence.  While this is probably the part of the book that will generate the biggest reaction, Fukuyama's arguments about the impacts of legal drugs to alter human behaviour are not amiss either.  His main point is that current society dislikes gender-specific behaviours, and therefore attempts to use drugs to generate an androgynous conformity.  He refers to how Prozac is used to nudge depressed women into more self-assertive (male-like) attitudes, whereas Ritalin is used to appease hyperactive young boys into sedate compliance.  His many quotes of scientists and social commentators indicate the degree to which nature is spurned by intelligent people who believe that it is, or should be, within their power, to remake human nature and the world we live in.  Stanford's Paul Erlich, always good for a laugh (he was priceless in the pompous-yet-totally-mistaken-windbag role in Lomborg's \\"Skeptical Environmentalist\\") shows yet again that common sense is quite uncommon in academia.  Given the risks on the one hand and on the other the total lack of insight that most scientists show in this regard, regulation is indispensable, and Fukuyama shows the way.  He is right to argue that, contrary to what some people think, or would have us think, regulation does work to a large extent.  And he is right that prohibition of certain types of research, such human cloning, should be the starting point and litmus test.  This book is a must read for laymen who would like to make sense of the contradictory messages they receive on this subject, and of course by policy-setters, scientists, philosophers and social commentators.  Besides being interesting and clear, the book is also very well written, so that the reader must not struggle with the writing to get at the heart of the point, and the length is also just right.  In the hands of someone else, this might have become a 500 page tome, rambling its way through anecdotes and repetition.  That's not the case.  The book's 220 pages (plus notes and bibliography), and fighting fit.	2002-07-08
US	51127281	R8VCL8DS8PYTY	1857881931	257939284	Agequake: Riding the Demographic Rollercoaster Shaking Business, Finance, and Our World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Demography won't be beat!	When I moved into France from my native Colombia, I was astounded at the number of old ladies with dogs and the paucity of mothers with babies and teenagers. Agequake confirms that this perception is just another aspect of the huge changes that new demographics will bring on within the next 20 years. The good news is that people are living longer. The bad news is that they are retiring at a younger age. And that, the longer they live, the more medical care they will require. <br />Wallace shows that the dependency ratios (the ratio of non-working &quot;dependents&quot; to working folk) will lead to a point where each worker will need to support not only himself, but a pensioner as well, and his own children, if any (and there will be very few). As the number of young working people, usually the more creative of all age-groups, continue to shrink, innovation will also came to a halt, and ultimately economic growth will vanish and then reverse the secular growing trend. While some environmentalists may feel overjoyed by this implosion of capitalism, most of us who rather liked material comforts and hoped that they would continue to grow endlessly will be less satisfied. The impact of the &quot;agequake&quot; will be felt in every sphere. Corporate hierarchies will make less sense when there are more middle-aged managers than young newcomers. The relationship between youthful and aggressive Third World Countries and rich older OECD countries (where elderly women will be the most influential constituency) will be fraught with dangers. Share prices will tend to collapse as the &quot;Baby Boomers&quot; start to retire and prefer to liquidate some of their assets. The housing market will be altered beyond recognition. <br />What can be done to avoid this future? Unsurprisingly, not much. Government policies cannot permanently improve fertility in rich countries, immigration in the scale required to make up for the shortfall of young workers will be politically indefensible, and the growing importance of older voters makes it virtually impossible for politicians to effect changes in fields such as retirement ages, pensioners' rights<BR>or public health.<br />All in all, a sobering read. When these things happen, those of us who read it will have at least a headstart on everyone else. Not bad for a few bucks, eh?	2002-07-05
US	51127281	RZ9ASPTLSNQKS	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A book as big as its subject and the Lone Star State	I first heard of this book last year (2001), when the Sunday Times of London asked William Hague, former chief of the UK Conservative Party, which book would he take to a desert island.  At the time Hague was licking his wounds after having been mauled in Parliamentary elections, and was forced to step down as Party Leader.  He was defeated by one of the most brilliant and ruthless political operators this country has known since the days of Baroness Thatcher, Tony Blair.  Having seen the book in a used-book shop I decided to pick it up in spite of its heft.  I wasn't disappointed.  I read the book very quickly, and understood why Hague had been so impressed by it.  It covers a period in which nothing much was happening in LBJs life.  After a hard early life (LBJ's father, a political idealist, was bankrupted due to bad investments, and his children became paupers almost overnight) Johnson was able to parlay his inexhaustible energy, his sharp mind and tart tongue, and his strong personality into a sucessful political career.  Having reached the House of Representatives he found himself stuck there, bored, blocked by the seniority system which would take him his whole life to overcome.<br />Johnson was always looking to the White House, and he knew that in order to make the jump from Texas state politics to the nationals he needed to be elected senator.  The book's main set-piece is a wonderful day-by-day description of the 1948 senatorial election that pitted Johnson against a legend of an older time, former governor Coke Stevenson.  Much has been said about Stevenson, including that he was a racist, and that he cheated as much as Johnson ever did.  Be that as it may, it seems well-proven that Stevenson was indeed a much-larger-than-life compendium of old-fashioned Western virtues.  He was laconic.  He was frugal.  He was hard-working.  He always kept his word, even when doing so was physically dangerous for him (no one could accuse Johnson of being a brave man, neither as a student nor as an adult).  He had a lean, weather beaten face that reminded me of Clint Eastwood in his more recent Western, The Unforgiven.  Stevenson's allies may have cheated in their own districts, but it is clear from Caro's research that Johnson won the election only because of very clear and fairly inept fraud in South Western Texas, the kingdom of the Duke of Duvall (a corrupt local politician out of Robert Penn Warren's \\"All the King's Men\\" who used patronage and corruption to maintain power for decades).  One of the perpetrators came forward and admitted it to Caro many years later, and there is a wonderful picture of some of the Duke of Duvall's men posing with a missing ballot-box.  Some of these men would have looked just fine at the side of Boss Hogg in the Old \\"Dukes of Hazzard\\" TV show.  Even more interesting than the actual cheating and the hear-stopping climax, which Caro manages to make exciting even though we know Johnson wins in the end, is the wonderful sense of an era re-created.  Caro brings to life the dusty towns, the heat, the working women and men, with no electricity, who eagerly listen to the candidates hoping for action that might improve their lives.<br />Another point concerns the clash between new and old ways of doing things.  Johnson represented the \\"new\\" politics, that currently dominates the landscape not just in the US.  In this approach, the candidate is a product, slickly packaged, supported by carefully controlled media disclosures and eye-catching stunts, such as using a helicopter to tour the State.  Stevenson is politics as it was, where the candidate campaigned on his character, campaign meetings were an opportunity for the electors to meet the candidate, and an appeal was made to the electors' good sense rather than their love of gimmicks.  Obviously, the Johnson-Stevenson clash could not but appeal to William Hague, after having been trounced by the most successful practitioner of \\"new\\" politics in the UK, Tony Blair.<br />Although the heart of the book is the 1948 election, Caro reveals much about Johnson's military service and business activities.  Johnson saw little or no military action and in fact spent most of his time in service touring defence facilities in the West, which left him enough time to buy clothing and socialize.  A single sortie in a fighter plane in the Pacific was enough to get him a decoration from General MacArthur, and he embellished his brief contact with the troops in ways that could sicken those with weak stomachs.  And this is another important point.  Johnson was shameless, and apparently believed his own lies at the time he told them.  He was astonished whenever he found out that others weren't fooled.  And the description of the way he built his media empire (when he became President he was a rich man, perhaps the richest to occupy the post) is also illustrative of the many opportunities that state patronage gives to the unscrupulous to better their lot with little risk.<br />While this is clearly not a pretty picture, I don't believe that Johnson comes out mainly as a villain.  It is unavoidable that an intelligent, ambicious, energetic young man should use all his powers to achieve his goals.  And he wasn't the worst of the lot.  Many deals were proposed to him that he turned down, whether on ethical grounds or to avoid damage to his reputation.  Many succcesful political figures were as bullying as Johnson (Teddy Roosevelt and W. S. Churchill come to mind), and others were as economical with the truth as he was (Richard Nixon and Tony Blair come to mind).  Many leaders, whether in academia, or in business, or in politics, tend to overstate their own merits and downplay their failures.  Johnson's main flaw is that he was more human than the rest.  While not admirable, this is surely something that we can understand.	2002-07-05
US	51127281	R3CZ34BYTZFT38	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Contentious Crowd Pleaser	This is not a Stalin biography for professional historians.  In this book the reader will not find grain yields in the Ukraine pre- and post- collectivisation, nor will they find tables listing the members of the Soviet state's leadership who were purged during the Stalin years.  This is a crowd pleaser, for the immense crowd who enjoys seeing the well-worn bones of the Vozhd's (Boss's) story adorned with the flesh and skin of telling anecdotes, brilliant apercus and titillating (yet reasonable, or at least viable) speculation.  The Boss comes alive in Radzinskii's hands. We should be glad it's just a book, and that he's really dead.  Buy it and read it.	2002-06-28
US	51127281	R2RTAPL5WHIIL	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Hitler Youth Distribute Poison Capsules as Wagner Plays	Beevor's latest offering does not disappoint his \\"Stalingrad\\" readers.  It views the crumbling Third Reich from the perspective of the major players, following them as they struggle to beat back the invaders (Hitler, Speer, Gobbels, Himmler) or to smash the Nazis (Stalin, Zhukov, Churchill, Einsehower, Patton) in the last few months of the war.  The book is a thorough distillation of the unimaginable suffering of the Germans as they get pushed out of France and Belgium after the failure of the Ardennes offensive and as they flee the Soviet steamroller which, like a dark nemesis, seeks to avenge the evil inflicted by the erstwhile conquerors to the Socialist Motherland.  The narrative is dispassionate, but the events are so convulsive that not one page goes by without an audible gasp escaping the lips of the reader.  While the book does not excuse the Nazis or deny that they got what was coming to them, it does allow the reader to empathise with the terror of ordinary Germans as they fled in crowded trains, on rickety carts, on ships or on foot, across desolated winter landscapes, under constant bombing.  For those left behind, life would be very grim indeed.  The Fuehrer's \\"Fortress Directive\\", designed to tie down Soviet forces on the Eastern Front (the latest one to surrender was Breslau, currently Polish Wroclaw) guaranteed that the Red Army bombed its way street by street as it occupied a city.  On the wake of the front line (often well behaved) came stragglers, often linked with Beria's NKVD, who indulged in sacking, burning and gang raping on an epic scale.  Even Soviet women released from German bondage were likely to suffer this horrible fate, a fact that even today is not openly discussed in the countries of the former Soviet Union.  As the Reich collapses all semblance of reason retreated, and the utter moral void of Nazism came fully into view, represented by Hitler's Nero order, by which he attempted to destroy the Germany that had not proved worthy of him.  Only Speer's conspiracy with the military leadership permitted Germany to survive the horrible winter of 1945.  The end, when it comes, is not something out of Wagner, as Hitler wanted, but rather a sordid affair, as the SS guards in the Fuehrer-bunker entertain girls whom they have lured with food and drink while Hitler plans his demise, which is announced by the smell of cigarrette smoke coming from the ventilation shafts (Hither forbade smoking in his presence, and hated tobacco smell).  It takes someone like Beevor to conjure such apocaliptic scenes on such an epic scale.  I enjoyed it very much, but missed some characters, about whom I would have liked to have read a bit, such as Roland Freisler (Hitler's Vishinsky, killed during allied bombings), or Goering (who pops in and out of scene much too quickly).  I know the book is about the fall of Berlin rather than that of the Third Reich, but surely Mr Beevor could have indulged his readers a bit more?	2002-06-28
US	51127281	R3NLBC5IRBQR8L	0844666807	329777968	An Area of Darkness	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Deep, disorganized insights into Naipaul's ancestral culture	In his native Trinidad Naipaul had always somehow been of India without being Indian. After 12 years in London, and possibly in an attempt to regain some sense of his own roots, he decided to take a sabbatical year in India in 1962. This book is the fruit of that year. <br />It begins inauspiciously enough with some amusing but not too jarring description of the endless troubles involved in bringing a bottle of liquor into India. We've all heard of India's elephantine bureaucracy, and Naipaul confirms to us that this is (was?) the case. Of much greater interest are the little fables he weaves to explain his view of how in India function is more important than action (i.e., ritual cleanliness is much more important than actual cleanliness) and gestures count more than reality (although this is common to many third world countries). Contrary to the impression a foreigner might have of chaos and aimlessness, India is in fact strictly regulated to a degree unknown in the West. Everyone has a place and a function, and such place and function are infinitely more significant to an Indian than what a Westerner's profession or skin colour might be to him. This provides a transition to another of Naipaul's interests, which is the nature of the relationship between the Indian Republic and the British Raj. According to Naipaul, the idea of Britishness is inextricably bound up with the Indian empire, and the British created themselves as an imperial people with a God-given mission, even as they created the Indians as a subordinate (inferior) race and state. Bound up with these deep meditations are the stories of his dealings with various landlords and hoteliers. Particularly amusing is his running relationship with the staff of a small hotel on Dal Lake, in Northern India, where he experiences the mutual dependency between masters and servants familiar to russian and ancient regime writers. He (the master) is often abused by the staff (the servants) and forced to perform meaningless or denigrating activities. The staff, however, treat him with an almost comical respect when confronted by third parties. Clearly the servants derive their respect from the respect shown to their master. The relationship is almost medieval. <br />And this is Naipaul's next point. India is not a modern country because there is no sense of the passage of time, but rather passive acceptance of everything, and an escape into the land of imagination to compensate for what otherwise would be a reality too painful to bear (but again, this is also a feature of other third world countries such as that of Colombia, and a source of Magical Realism a la Garcia Marquez). <br />The book's final part has a fascinating reflection on the nature of English writing on India and Indian writing. Naipaul disparages virtually all literary creation in the sub-continent (with a couple of minor exceptions including Narayan). He likes Kipling and has no clear opinion on Forster (he would eventually develop a strongly critical perspective on this author as well, deeply tinged by his antipathy to the writer's homosexuality). The ending is bleak, punctuated by his frightening falling in with a racist Sikh (who is a dead ringer for Europe's skinheads of a decade later) and a depressive visit to his grandfather's hometown, when he realizes that the distance between himself and India is unbridgeable. The backdrop is provided by the Chinese invasion and Indian defeat (this defeat is the last of endless defeats over the past millenium, and an emblem for them all).<br />The book, although picturesque in some points is extremely bleak and really justifies Naipaul's famed ability to stare at reality in the face, and not flinch. Whoever believes Naipaul has singled the Muslims for special abuse (in such works as &quot;Among the Believers&quot; and &quot;The Suffrage of Elvira&quot;) only needs to read this disconsolate book (his first of a couple) on his own homeland to confirm that Naipaul does notbelieve in playing favourites, and will shine the passionately cold light of his wit on everything that catches his eye. The book is in parts obscure and disorganized, but very insightful. This reviewer shared Naipaul's sense of grossness and void, as he contemplates utter misery and hopelessness (this is a feeling many peoples might have today: former Zaireans, Sudanese, Palestinians, Colombians, Bhurmans, to name just a few). His refusal to compromise is not fuelled by self-hatred (as has been suggested by some commentators) but rather by a powerful self-awareness. It's no wonder many Indians hated the book. Not being Indian, and not therefore needing to be appeased, I liked it very much.	2001-11-29
US	51127281	R29R2N5LNCG12Y	0394711955	71581131	Among the Believers: An Islamic Journey	Books	5	24	28	N	N	An unbeliever visits the land of faith and doesn't like it	It's 1979. The second oil shock that will bring about the terrible recession of the 1980s has just begun. In the East, the masses are stirring and revolution is afoot. Only this time the inspiration does not come from nationalism (favourite in the 1800s) or political ideology (usual from the Mexican Revolution to the Vietnam War), but religion. Yes, religion, dead and buried along with God by secularists everywhere, has rattled out of its grave, and lifting its curved sword, has led a new wave of fervent sentiment. In Iran, Mohamed Rezah Pahlevi, the successful but brutal modernizer Shah, has been overthrown by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. In Afghanistan, the Soviets are preparing to invade, setting in movement a chain of events that would end with the end of Lenin's Kingdom. In Lebanon, the civil war rages between Maronite Christians and Shi'ite Muslims.<br />Into this world (which is still clearly recognizable to us today, when the descendants of these fighters are still with us, but much more powerful and deadly than they were then) came an atheistic Trinidadian, currently known as Sir Vidia Naipaul. Naipaul visited four countries linked by one theme: they were countries that were conquered by Islam. They were separated from the Arab heartlands of the Prophet's Faith by heresy (as in Iran) or distance (as in Pakistan, Malaysia and Indonesia). He tours the four countries far and wide. He speaks with common people (like waiters, taxi drivers, translators, hotel managers, salesmen, journalists), religious leaders (Mullahs, Ayatollahs, intellectual and political leaders) and dissidents (mainly communists). He begins with Iran. There he attends a mass prayer at Teheran University and is repelled by the spectacle of tens of thousands of people praying in unison. He also goes to the sacred city of Qom, where he meets the clownish (but very dangerous) hanging Ayatollah Kalkhalli. He travels by train with communists and is harassed by revolutionary guards (not too different from Red Guards). In Pakistan he goes from the coast to the Himalayas and visits the large cities in between. In Malaysia and Indonesia he mainly flies across jungles, to see Islamic seeds sprouting deep roots in the body politic of these countries (although much more ominously in Malaysia). He visits religious schools and is appalled at the medieval squallor that reigns and wonders what use will these learnings be to the students of the country (in fact he believes that all these schools will do is put out more zealots who won't be able to find productive jobs, because they don't know how to do anything else but become teachers of even more zealots, and so on ad infinitum). He meets many wise men who are willing to contemplate great commotions (this is a constant: the most extreme fanatics he meets always appear initially to be genial and harmless). He sees this islamic revival as the vengeance of the formerly isolated country people who, having benefitted from some education, feel isolated from their roots, and use religion as a cudgel to beat either their own elites (as in Iran against the Shah or in Pakistan against Butto) or minority groups that are more successful than themselves (as in Malaysia and Indonesia with the Chinese or the Christians). Naipaul sees most of the faithful he meets either as close-minded (virtually the only thing on which everyone agrees is that in an Islamic countries women should not appear on TV) or hopelessly confused (although many consider themselves &quot;bad muslims&quot; because they feel they are unable to live their faith properly they have no doubt that a whole state based on such a faith would work very well). He is bemused that most Islamists are absolutely convinced that things would be better under an Islamic order, in spite of their inability in showing how exactly things would differ, and their grudging admission that the only properly Islamic state only existed in the 35 years after the Prophet's death, under the first few caliphs. He is angered at the ease with which the believers are willing to use foreign artifacts (such as weapons, funds or laws) in spite of their absolute rejection of everything foreign civilizations stand for. He is outraged at how political Islam has managed to obliterate any remainder awareness among Iranians of their imperial Persian past, among Pakistanis of their Hindustan past, and among Malays and Indonesians of their Buddhist past. He sees they identify so totally with their own ideological conquerors, that they see themselves as their descendants, rather than those of the conquered peoples, whom they truly come from.<br />Does he expect things to improve? Not really. He expects them to get worse, and he is convinced that the religious mindset (narrow, intolerant, violent) will be behind each and every commotion. Has he been proven right? Let each reader judge by himself.<br />Many of the commentators in these pages criticize Naipaul for his negative attitude to religion. This is a fair point. Naipaul is hostile to religion, and specifically to Islam. In one of his first books, An Area of Darkness, he declares that he was brought up on the belief that Muslims were unreliable, even traitorous. His own antipathy to Islam is a consequence of his Hindu background (he is a Brahmin), but his own atheism has made it much sharper. He has also been accused (among others by his fomer friend Paul Theroux) of having missed much dogmatic subtleties because of his lack of Arabic language. Do these things weaken the book? I don't think so, because Naipaul is no one else's ambassador and is not supposed to be impartial, or even fair. All he must be is informative, insightful, and amusing. He is all these things, and he also writes superbly. The book is as much about himself (his likes, his hates, his hesitations, his curious obsessions) as it is about the countries he visits. It is even less about Islam as a religion, a subject that Naipaul does not understand (he usually tries to escape expositions of dogma and eludes gifts of religious books or articles) and doesn't care about. Good muslims should not worry about this book. It is not about religion. It is a travel book, a highly critical and surely biased one. But this reviewer enjoyed it very much.	2001-11-26
US	51127281	R2BF4WG49RINJF	0140029389	251058186	Suffrage of Elvira	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A universal story told as a fable	This is the first Naipaul book I've read (following Paul Theroux's &quot;Sir Vidia's Shadow&quot;, which I highly recommend), and it has spurred me into reading more from Naipaul.  Not to bring anyone into disregard, but I believe it was high time for the Nobel Committee to return to richly satisfying writers of a monumental girth (such as Naipaul, Saramago or Garcia Marquez, to name just some of the more recent ones) when choosing its literature prize winners.<br />To the Suffrage of Elvira, then.  The story is a simple one, very charmingly told.  &quot;Pat&quot; Harbans is a man on the verge of old age who, mainly to be in a position to benefit from public works contracts (roadworks)decides to stand as a candidate for MP for the region of Elvira, Caroni District.  It is 1950, the second election after Trinidad's independence from Britain, and in Elvira there are 8,000 voters, of which the majority are of Hindu origin, with a few Muslim, Black and &quot;Spanish&quot; ones thrown in.  Mr. Harbans is traveling to the town of Elvira to visit Baksh (a rambunctious tailor who is seen as the leader of the Muslim group) and Chittanrajan (a rich goldsmith, who leads the Hindu faction).  His hope is to get Baksh's and Chittanrajan's support, thus ensuring his final victory in the elections.  During the trip everything seems to go wrong.  Harbans runs over a dog and almost hits two American Jehova's Witnesses on bikes.  He sees these events as an ill omen, and he is not mistaken.  In Elvira he is forced to pay through the nose, as all his future constituents take him for a ride that doesn't end until the end of the book.  He is forced to appoint Baksh's son, Foam, as campaign manager and to agree to his son's marriage to Chittanrajan's daughter.  He is forced to open an account at Ramlogan's run shop for his supporters, and is eventually forced to pay for the privilege of visiting ill Hindu voters, for the burial of a political opponent, and for a motorcade on election day.Everyone, and not the least Harbans (who is not at all suited for the rigours of a campaign, who hates to talk in public and easily falls into depression) is flawed.  Harbans's main opponent is a black candidate, nicknamed Preacher (who comes across mainly as a religious fanatic), and the chief of Preacher's campaign is a confidence man named Lorkhoor.  I won't tell much more, not to spoil the pleasure of future readers, but suffice to say that even the more appealing characters (Foam and Chittanrajan) are not without their blemishes.  This is small town, third world life, warts and all.  And the election is absolutely true to life, and not only for Trinidad, but also for many other similar regions.  I am not Trinidadian but Colombian, and I could recognize all the characters portrayed.<br />Naipaul is Swiftian, but not as acerbic as would be the case in his future works.  The election (and, indeed, democracy) is a mockery, and, while everyone tries to take advantage of everyone else, the strong prevail whereas the weak fall by the side, not without having inflicted some damage as a price for their destitution.  No one is too weak to spit and bite and even the big beasts sometimes have to retreat (although they win in the end).<br />The book is funny and probably was very difficult to write in spite of its short length.  I regretted not knowing what happened with the Jehova's Witnesses in the end, and I think Naipaul could have given Preacher a bit more of air time.  But otherwise, I have no complaints.  Read this book.  &quot;Do your part, vote the heart&quot;.	2001-11-19
US	51127281	R2G4KJYKK82NKK	0395907284	419114277	Sir Vidia's Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fascinating, infuriating Sir Vidia comes to life	&quot;Sir Vidia's Shadow&quot; is the sort of book Boswell might have written had he broken relations with Johnson while the great man was alive. Although in person the Nobel laureate Naipaul is very short and almost fragile (according to Theroux) he must have been in many ways a very large man to cast so great a shadow on so many people.<br />The story is easily told. In 1966 Theroux is a twentyish university lecturer living in Central and Eastern Africa who enjoys the sexual mores of the natives. He meets V. S. Naipaul, then in his mid-thirties, and his wife, Pat. Naipaul has benefitted from a shady foundation's grant and is supposed to teach at Theroux's university. The younger man quickly falls under the spell of the brilliant, imperious, often nasty Naipaul. These are the funniest chapters in the book. Perhaps the best anecdote is when Naipaul (who often refused to teach and to meet with either teachers or students) agreed to act as a judge in a literary competition, but insisted that there should be no first or second prizes, as he believed no entries would deserve such distinctions. Therefore, the prize should be called &quot;Third Prize&quot;. <br />Theroux and Naipaul grow close as the former accompanies the latter on several trips, and benefits from Naipaul's fanatical commitment to writing. Naipaul is deeply aware of excellence in writing, although he is too prickly to acknowledge the influence of either living or deceased authors. He would have agreed with Homer's sentiment &quot;I am self-taught&quot;. Afterwards, Naipaul moves to London, where he is joined by Theroux, and the gaps when they live on separate continents are bridged only by letters, as neither of them is used to communicating by phone (this is a nice touch). Eventually Theroux settles in England, and Naipaul introduces him to local lights such as Lady Antonia Fraser, Harold Pinter and Naipaul's younger brother Shiva (who makes a rather depressing character in this story). Naipaul is ofteninconsiderate to Theroux (he forces him to go to expensive restaurants and to pay the tab even though Theroux has no regular income, he ignores Theroux's wife and children, he dismisses his concerns) but Theroux accepts it as the price of being Vidia's friend. As both men grow in their writing vocation, and Theroux succeeds first as a travel writer and then as a novelist, there is still the unspoken assumption that he plays second fiddle to Vidia, a man who does not bear contradiction and who &quot;cuts off&quot; anyone who fails him even in trivial matters, such as punctuality. Vidia bullies all who have to deal with him, such as his wife, his editor, his fellow writers, his friends (of whom there are never too many, as Vidia is too thoughtless and blunt to give anyone much time to get close to him). However, according to this book, Theroux manages to remain his friend until his second marriage to a much younger Pakistani woman, Nadira. <br />The end, when it comes, is swift. Naipaul and Theroux take part in the book fair at Hay-on-Wye, at Theroux's insistence. Vidia is annoyed at the way the event progresses, but says nothing. Months later, Theroux finds out that books he inscribed to Vidia years before have come into the market, and assumes someone is cleaning house. He writes Vidia a fax telling him this, and receives back a demented response from the wife. He knows something is wrong when he cannot get in touch with Naipaul, but hopes against hope that it's only because Nadira wife is intercepting his messages. Eventually he runs into Vidia in London, and the older man cuts him off. When he tries to get an answer, Vidia just says that both of them would have to &quot;take it on the chin and move on&quot;.<br />As Theroux moves away from Vidia's shadow he becomes increasingly critical of him both as a person and as a writer, and it seems he derives a certain pleasure from parading Naipaul's faults for everyone to see. This is not surprising. Their relationshiplasted longer and was more intense than some marriages. Clearly, it is like one of those contorted love affairs when it ends, and the spurned lover (in this case Theroux) has to pick up the pieces.<br />The book is well written, well paced, and Theroux does not succumb to the temptation, which must have existed, of pre-dating his current feelings to infuse his earlier relationship with Naipaul. He lets the Nobel laureate take center stage. He comes across as dominating and dictatorial a man as Mao Ze Dong in Li Shui Zi's book, or Trujillo in Vargas Llosa's &quot;The Feast of the Goat&quot;. He truly is a magnificent beast, one to which it is also dangerous to get too close. As Theroux says, Naipaul is not the writer as buddy, but the writer as priest.	2001-11-08
US	51127281	R3PXG9P4CI7U9L	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	4	580	611	N	N	Still current, still very funny	I read this book some ten years ago, and it struck me as most humourous and overall correct.    Although I was born in South America, I have lived and studied in the US, and I have studied and worked in France and the UK.  My experience in all these geographies supports Fussell's conclusions.  It is true that the higher the social class, the taller and slimmer people tend to be.  It is true that the traditional lower (rather than the underclass) and the higher classes have many things in common, among them a deeply ingrained conservatism and a fierce pride in their way of being.  In the UK, working class men's clubs are fighting the same fight which was lost a few years ago by the gentlemen's clubs: the right to keep women away from at least some parts of their premises.  Many working class people all over the world deride attempts by others of a similar origin to \\"pass themselves out\\" as middle class, and regard middle class dress, speech patterns and social habits as feminine and unsound.  There is probably no significant difference in the prejudiced, deeply uncurious mindset of Prince Philip Duke of Edinburgh and that of a pensioner his age living in Yorkshire.  It is true that strident religious opinions, big hair of unnatural colour and painted nails, or toupees and poorly-fitting jackets are usually the predictor of lower-to lower middle class background, or that high professional qualifications, gym memberships, affiliation with environmental organizations and career ambitions normaly denote urban middle class.      It might be seen as cruel, even evil, to remark on it, but don't the following terms clearly conjure a mental image of a particular order of things? (a) barcalounger, (b) trailer park, (c) WWJD, (d) community college, (e) Tom Jones, (f) spam, (g) gin and tonic, (h) dinner jacket, (i) pesto, (j) 100% polyester, (k) white supremacy, (l) homemaker, (m) National Enquirer, (n) The New Yorker, (o) Nantucket, (p) Detroit, (q) credit card debt, (r) bodice-ripper, (s) short-sleeved dress shirt, (t) pocket protector, (u) hunting dog, (v) Armani, (w) Ivy League, (x) inner city, (y) Dairy Queen, (z) educator. Think of words like individual (pronounced \\"individjal\\") or expressions like people of colour.  Those who disbelieve Fussell's arguments to identify social classes just haven't been paying attention, for there are signs everywhere that they are still alive and well.    Fussell is very perceptive on many points.  He notices that English spelling and mock-old-English words (parlour, kippers, jolly good) are short-hand for the higher social orders, and that this is used by real estate developers to get homebuyers to pay more just to live in a posher sounding address.  He sees that many people seem to believe that college education irrespective of the actual college places them on a par with Ivy League graduates, and he sees it as a cruel ruse on the gullible and insecure (this is true everywhere: in the UK, many years after the polytechnics and teachers colleges were turned into universities Cambridge and Oxford still top the lists and \\"a group of fewer than 20 universities attract 90 per cent of the resources available for research and take the lion's share of money for teaching\\", according to The Times; in France virtually the entire business, political and intellectual elite comes from a handful of institutes, notably ENA, HEC, Insead and the X), in spite of the fact that truly desirable employers, such as consulting firms only hire people out of a handful of institutions (for example, Accenture, with 70,000 employees, only recruits MBA graduates at 5 schools in the US and 3 in Europe).      He notices that most people confuse the more visible upper middle class (called in the US the Preppies, in the UK the Sloane Rangers, in France les BCBG, in Latin America la gente bien, o la gente fresa) with the much more reclusive upper class, which one rarely sees, perhaps luckily, for they tend to be troublesome and violent(cfr., \\"The House of Hervey\\", by Michael de-la-noy: party girl Lady Victoria Hervey has had a high profile dalliance with gangster rapper P. Diddy).  He sees the clear difference between the upper middle class \\"Patrician\\" mindset, and the upper class \\"Aristocratic\\" one (in order to tell them apart, when you think of the upper middle class, think XIX century, Victorian, prudish, earnest, hard-working, dark, and when you think of the upper classes, think XVIII century, Augustan, idle, colourful, cynical: it's Dickens, Balzac and Jane Austen versus Lord Chesterfield, Boswell and Saint-Simon, or the Novel versus the Diary).  This is indeed a key difference between the American North and South.  The North's upper class (Saltonstalls, Cabots, Lodges, Ameses, Eliots, Adamses, Biddles) is distinctly Patrician, due to its deep Calvinist influence, whereas the South's (traditional California Land-owners or Alabama cotton-growers) is clearly Aristocratic (which is why only the South could produce William Faulkner's \\"Absalom, Absalom\\", and only the North could give forth \\"The Education of Henry Adams\\").  The US Civil War, seen in this fashion, is a re-play of the English Civil War between roundheads (Patricians)and cavaliers (Aristocrats).      Fussell also sees that economic development will not swell the ranks of the upper classes, but just create richer proles and lower-middle class people.  While some people may think that because they are rich they are upper class, virtually no one else is fooled.  Raul Gardini, formerly one of the richest men in Italy (who killed himself a few years ago), once said that he and Silvio Berlusconi were just very rich stiffs, whereas Gianni Agnelli was a prince.  If we look at the people who benefitted the most from the bubble economy of the 90s (such as software experts, web designers, internet enterpreneurs, telemarketers, singers and dancers and sport idols), we will see that most of them don't even try to appear upper class by wearing Armani or Ralph Lauren clothes, driving Bentleys, taking up polo or hunting or buying a yacht.  They are just happy to live it up, and don't much care to be seen as upwardly mobile.      Fussell was right when he wrote that Class was a very contentious subject in the US, that many more people thought of themselves as middle-class than was actually the case, and that simply discussing this matter was thought of as offensive.  Reading some of the ratings for this book I have no doubt that this is the case.  Some of the commentators appear personally offended by Fussell's opinions and think that \\"he's just a guy setting himself up as the standard for class, so we'll bring him down a peg or two\\".  He does nothing of the sort.  The only class with which he seeks to align itself is Class X, which is a bit like David Brooks' BoBos (Bourgeouis Bohemians), and he argues that only by stepping away from the class structure can we be totally free.      Some people may think that the social class structure is so undermined as to be nonexistent.  That's not the case.  Social classes are very robust, and, in way or another, manage to survive all economic or political upheavals (remember Milovan Djilas' book \\"The New Class\\", on the dominant bureaucrat/military class in Tito's officially Socialist Yugoslavia).  In the US many people seem to think that money grants class.  That is largely self-deception.  As Fussell says, it takes at least three generations to produce a middle class person, and many more to produce an upper class one.  Readers, do not berate the messanger for the message.  To paraphrase Goldwater, \\"in your hearts you know he's right\\".	2001-09-28
US	51127281	R34W900A6Y2PK0	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	608	676	N	N	Staggering research boiled into all the key information	Worthy causes, whether religious, political or moral tend to see themselves as above the duty to provide evidence to substantiate both their claims about reality and the suitability of their proposed measures to improve said reality. To their believers, the state of the world is obvious (usually bad), and they are genuinely astonished to find that most people are unconcerned about the grave issues that drive them. Their natural reaction is to become even more feverish about their respective causes and to step up efforts to proselytise and convert the benighted masses.<br />Bjorn Lomborg started working on the issues that would eventually make up the content of his book by leading some of his statistics students into debunking some claims made by University of Maryland's professor Julian Simon. Julian Simon had claimed that things were actually getting better rather than worse, and that most negative environmental indicators were connected to poverty, violence and bad government rather than consumption or wealth. To their surprise (for he initially took Simon's claims as evidence of typical American arrogance), Lomborg and his students found that Simon was roughly right. It was true that things were getting better, and that many of the claims coming from environmental advocates were contradictory (for example they both dreaded global cooling in the 1970s and global warming in the 1990s as absolutely negative, although clearly both have benefits compared to each other, and neither is all bad), or tendentious (for example, advocates for particular causes often choose particular extreme years to show a negative tendency in a variable, while ignoring the long term trend), or simply shoddy (such as using a report on a tiny plot of slanting land in Belgium to extrapolate the global impact of erosion on land fertility). Lomborg published some articles discussing his findings on a left-leaning newspaper in Denmark, that greenest of countries, and was astonished at the publicreaction. He decided to take upon himself a Gargantuan project, one that (I think) he couldn't possibly have thought through before embarking on it, or I predict he wouldn't have done it. He decided to review the state of the world from many, many angles, including humanity, all types of resources, animals and plants, as well as their interactions. The amount of work required to cover all these subjects, and to come up with data to back up his conclusions, must have been staggering. I have sometimes done this type of work, and I am in awe at Lomborg's achievement. It is truly a tour de force.<br />While I don't claim that everything Lomborg says makes perfect sense, or that all his data are correct (surely he won't deny his readers the right to apply skepticism to his own claims as well, and it is quite easy to use the WWW to check out his opponents' arguments), this is a rare book that attempts seriously to consider all facts from a variety of angles, which tries to answer objections or qualifications from opponents, and which carefully connects all the variables into a global picture, incorporating the temporal dimension both past and future. Lomborg is truly skeptical, in the sense of taking nothing for granted and approaching all the issues dispassionately. These are, as Descartes told us in his Discourse on the Method, some of the conditions for true knowledge.  Reading Lomborg one sometimes feels like the light has been turned on or the mists have cleared on many topics.  One is surprised to find many catastrophe-peddlers (such as Stanford's Dr. Erlich, who is unrepentant of the obvious failure of his predictions for the 1980s of widespread famine and scarce resources due to population growth) are still around and doing fairly well.  At least Lomborg takes them to task, and finds them wanting in logic and veracity.<br />I predict (and it doesn't take Nostradamus to figure this out) that this book will be purchased by many people who normally wouldn't think ofreading even a newspaper article on environmental concerns. Many of these probably won't make it through the entire book. In spite of Lomborg's great asides about his debates with WorldWatch and with Danish government ministers and his glee in demolishing yet another sophism, he is sometimes prolix, and there is a point were yet another chart showing that some metal's price has not gone up but down in the past hundred years is one too many. But let's not forget his calling (he is a statistician, although an unusually lively one), and let's not ask him from more than what he offers (which is a rational, dispassionate look at the environmentalist discourse).  His chapter on global warming is both exhaustive and exhausting.  I predict also that Mr. Lomborg will become a darling of the libertarian think tanks in the US and elsewhere, and a villain in the eyes of environmental organizations and their supporters. Both attitudes are mistaken. The only way to dismiss Mr. Lomborg is by showing that his data or his inferences from them are wrong. And, although roughly aligned with them on most issues, Mr. Lomborg is probably not of the libertarians' perspective (they should be scared if Mr. Lomborg decides to write a book testing many of the libertarian's claims, such as the trickle-down theory of economic development). Everything else is just taking things on faith, something Mr. Lomborg hasn't done. He is entitled to the same treatment.	2001-09-24
US	51127281	RP51QFJ6CSUCU	0805054758	873100040	The Pope's Rhinoceros	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Big, Unwieldly, but Fun	&quot;The Pope's Rhinoceros&quot; has been called Lawrence Norfolk's second novel. I don't believe its value comes mainly from its novel-hood. Rather, it has some amazing, even mind-blowing scenes tied together by recurring characters, some of which are intriguing or amusing, some less so.<br />The storyline is not easy to summarize (the book is like a very rich cake that cannot hold it shape). The time is the high Renaissance (early XVI century). Niklot, our hero, an aboriginal native of the island of Usedom, in the Baltic Sea, barely survives lynching by crazed locals because of his heathenish rituals. Having escaped an attempt to drown him (his mother was not so lucky) he wanders through the Central German forests for several years, living as a wild-child. He is captured by a wandering band of fraudsters who make a living by pretending to be retreating soldiers. Eventually the villagers of a town they intended to swindle turn on them, and turn them over to a real army, the Spanish one. Niklot, now named Salvestro, is befriended by a dim-witted giant (Bernardo) and by an older soldier, Groot. All take part in the attempted siege of the town of Prato, conducted by the Spaniards on behalf of the head of the Medici family, the youthful Cardinal Giovanni de Medicis, son of Lorenzo de Magnificent. For some unnamed reason (as is common throughout the book) the Cardinal pretends to accept Prato's surrender through an agreement with the city's bigwig, Aldo Tebaldi, but in reality allows the city to be plundered by the Spanish troops, and everything ends in an orgy of raping and murder that eventually extends to Tebaldi's family, who were being guarded by Salvestro, Bernardo and Groot (headed by a Spaniard named Colonel Diego). The Cardinal attempts to blame Salvestro et alii for the Tebaldi family massacre, but our hero and Bernardo manage to escape led by one of the more appealing characters in the book, a young proto-witch named Amalia. Colonel Diego and Groot are blamed for the escape of the supposed &quot;murderers&quot;, and are dishonored. Salvestro leads Bernardo back to Usedom in an attempt to recoup their fortune by fishing out a treasure that was supposedly buried at the bottom of the sea when the heathen city of Vineta (located on a small peninsula off the coast of Usedom) sank during Henry the Lion's attempted siege over two hundred years before. The attempt fails miserably, and the villagers again try to kill Salvestro, whom they recognize as Niklot. Both Salvestro and Bernardo are saved by an order of monks, whose monastery is collapsing into the sea. Brother Joerg convinces Salvestro to lead them to Rome, where they will obtain some unnamed type of help in the rebuilding of their monastery (money? architects? who knows?). Salvestro obliges but Rome does not welcome the monks or their guides. The former Cardinal de Medicis, now crowned as Pope Leo X is not interested in anything as pedestrian as monks and monasteries, but is only concerned with obtaining a rhinoceros, which he hopes will fight with elephant Hanno, donated to him by the Portuguese King Manoel. So the Usedom monks scatter, some becoming builders, some vagrants, and father Joerg is eventually left almost alone as he tries to obtain an audience with the Pope for months and months. Meanwhile, Salvestro and Bernardo (along with their former enemy, colonel Diego) are forced to sign up on a doomed voyage to Africa (guided by an African princess whom they found living as a slave to a high-class prostitute in Rome) to fetch a rhino for His Holiness. The voyage and adventures in Africa (not perhaps the best rendered part of the book)are partially successful, in that they manage to bring the beast back, but dead due to a shipwreck off the coast of La Spezia. The Pope, grateful even for a dead Rhino, confers to Salvestro any wish he might choose to express. He expresses a wish to hear the Pope's confession, which refers to His Holiness's shameful actions during thePrato campaign. Then Salvestro, brother Joerg and another monk returh to Usedom, where Salvestro is finally murdered by the locals.<br />The book, as has been hinted is very uneven. Many scenes are memorable for a sort of nightmarish quality and exageration that is sometimes worthy of Rabelais: a feast in a Roman Church during which several live animals are torn apart and devoured by the parishioners, a poetical competition on a flooded stadium (naumachia), a hunting party led by Pope Leo, the crass jokes of Cardinals Bibbiena and Dovizio (historical characters), a concert by ur-punk band, King Caspar and the Mauritians. The description of a Roman potentate's labyrinthine palace is not short of Eco's library in &quot;The Name of The Rose&quot;. The elaborate rendition of the life of a colony of rats, or the routine in the Papal kitchens, are nauseating but beguiling, and again not short of Patrick Suesskind's masterful &quot;Perfume&quot;.<br />Some things work less well. The character of Brother Joerg is inconsistent. At the beginning he is a forceful geography teacher, but then he becomes a virtual blind and mute wreck who allows his flock to be dispersed and eventually lost. The rivalry between Portuguese and Spaniards over the division of the globe between the two naval powers is not clarified, and it could be without loss to the plot. The efficient killer Rufo is left hanging (he wanders off page about two thirds of the book and never turns up again). As noted above, the portions that take place aboard ships, or in Goa or Africa are not as interesting as those that occur in Europe, and neither are the characters or the episodes featured. I couldn't see why the Usedom monastery wasn't rebuilt, why bullying monk Gerhardt did not get his comeuppance (unlike Groot, who got his to the hilt), and why Salvestro returned to get slaughtered. Or, indeed, why the hugely likeable Bernardo was not allowed to join a wandering troupe of dwarfs as the mandatory giant, as seemed his destiny at some point.<br />So why do I give this book four stars? Because the good parts are very good, and the bad parts are much better than the good parts of other books I've read recently. Because many of the characters are unforgettable. Amalia and Bernardo are both excellent, and the Pope is masterful, along with his cohort of drunken cardinals and cynical minor bureaucrats. The demented noble Roman Colonna is formidable, and the S-M red-headed goddess, La Cavallerizza Sanguinosa has an undefined role but always manages to make a splash when she turns up. Norfolk is a man with a tough stomach, who knows his story, and is not afraid of the baroque. Minimalism has its uses, but historical fiction is not one of them.	2001-07-16
US	51127281	R31I2E0PM8G347	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Great Trilogy's Least	The Human Stain, while vastly superior to most of what gets published in these times, is clearly the least component of a great trilogy.<br />It is the story of the rise and fall of Coleman Silk, a brilliant, light skinned black from New Jersey who, after returning from service at the end of WWII, decides to ditch his racial identity along with his loving family and the rest of his past to re-create himself as a Jew.  A regal and distant power-broker (as dean of faculty) in a small college, he is respected but apparently not much loved by his colleagues.  His downfall is brought about by careless referring to some underperforming black students as &quot;spooks&quot;, apparently a racist term from the 1950s (this expression is used in such a fashion by one of the characters of a 1985 film, &quot;Back To the Future&quot;, in a scene that takes place in 1955).  No soon has he uttered the words when a baying crowd starts asking for his head.  A proud man, he refuses to defend himself, and prefers to quit his position.  His wife dies of a broken heart over his mistreatment by the college and he takes up as a lover a supposedly lower-class cleaning woman who saw her two children burn to their death while enjoying furtive sex with one of a string of beaus.  This only compounds his fall, because it irritates a flighty and thoroughly nasty French lecturer, Delphine Roux who, feeling spurned by the ideal &quot;father figure&quot; starts vicious gossip that eventually coalesces in an anonymous letter (obviously written by Roux) sent to Silk.  The cleaning-woman, on the other hand, has a psychopathic ex-husband, a Vietnam war veteran who eventually (and don't read this if you don't want the story spoiled) kills both Silk and his ex-wife.  Meanwhile, bitchy, too-smart-for-her-own-good Delphine mistakenly sends to all the faculty an email describing her ideal mate, who (surprise, surprise) turns out to be a portrait of the now disgraced Coleman Silk.  Then, in order to disguise her idiocy, she fakes a break-in into her office by Silk.  Convently, Silk cannot defend himself and his debasement is complete.  Two inherently decent, if unlikeable people (Coleman and his lover) die in disgrace, while two underhanded killers of both character and body (Delphine and the Vietnam vet) survive.  Such is life.<br />Many readers will agree that the story is good, and very well told by Roth.  His bleak worldview and trademark misoginy are well in evidence, his edenic descriptions of New Jersey in the 1930s and 1940s are still there too.  He is very good at gripping descriptions of Promethean characters who initially triumph against long odds and are then dashed by the envious gods, who begrudge men the happiness that they have earned.<br />But Coleman Silk's fall is not as entrancing of that of &quot;Swede&quot; Levov in &quot;American Pastoral&quot; or Iron Rinn in &quot;I Married a Communist&quot;.  Perhaps because Silk's flaws are imperceptible (at least to me) his collapse generated less sympathy than decent family man Levov's and Communist violent firebrand Rinn's.  Also, there is nothing in &quot;The Human Stain&quot; like the nightmarish dinner party where Jessie Orcutt, an upper-class alcoholic whose husband will eventually steal &quot;Swede&quot; Levov's wife Dawn, tries to gouge Lou Levov's eye for no particular reason.  Lou Levov, the &quot;Swede&quot;'s father, is the (Jewish) incarnation of human decency, and even he ends the book speechless, with blood on his face, while the malignant laughter of nihilist Marcia Umanoff rings, mocking him and all he stands for.  Of course, it would be unfair to demand that a writer who already has included one of those moments that one never forgets in his trilogy's first book should also manage to get one into the last one.  There is no dishonour in a book being the least of a great trilogy.	2001-07-16
US	51127281	R2HQCJYLU6GZ74	0375701133	441709531	The Hitler of History	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Showing the True Colours of the Prince of Darkness	I must confess that I am fascinated by larger than life bogeymen of history.  I devour biographies about such characters as Mao, Hitler, Himmler, Beria, Stalin, Pol Pot, Mussolini, Fidel Castro, Franco, Robespierre, Lenin, Fouche, Napoleon, Richelieu.  While obviously one could never lump them all together (there is a universe of difference between a psychopathic genocidal maniac such as Pol Pot and a respected architect of royal authority such as Richelieu), they all share one common trait, and that is of having been thought (fairly, in most cases) to be dark, even satanic. And the darkest and most satanic of all is Hitler.  The man seems irredemeable, a compendium of all that is beastly and vulgar.  Hannah Arendt's dictum about Adolf Eichman (&quot;the banality of evil&quot;) seems even more adequate for Eichman's namesake and compatriot Hitler.<br />Lucaks' book shines a light through the Fuehrer's inner darkness.  In so doing he actually manages something of a re-appraisal that is, nonetheless, far off from a rehabilitation.  He shows how Hitler as a person was actually a much more complex and unfathomable being than the pantomime villain he has frequently been represented (remember the Hitler of &quot;Springtime for Hitler&quot; in Mel Brooks' &quot;The Producers&quot;?  Many serious historians have not been much more realistic in their portrayals).  He shows that this brand of spiritual evil is not diminished by Hitler's many positive personal traits (such as his fearlesness, his photographic memory, his iron will, or his personal honesty).  I thought it very fitting that he would dare to discuss evil in an explicitly religious context.  Contemporary indifference to traditional categories such as good and evil, and relativistic appraisals of everything, get in the way of an accurate understanding of what Hitler was about.  Hitler was not a cartoon character dribbling spit from his lower lip as he ranted and raved for the benefit of a few like-minded maniacs.He was an intelligent, hard-working man who was able to inspire an great nation with his vision.  Unfortunately, this vision was inhuman and hellish.  The evil that he conjured burned him from the face of this earth.  The tragic magnificence of his destiny is well conjured by Lucaks' erudition and elegant writing style.  His strong moral sense is also useful to have as one gazes into the abyss.<br />If you will only read one book about Hitler, make it this one, and if possible follow it up with Burleigh's &quot;Third Reich&quot;.	2001-07-11
US	51127281	R32LCXZR8QD3VF	0896801489	796276275	Conservative Thought in Twentieth Century Latin America: The Ideas of Laureano Gomez (Ohio RIS Latin America Series, No. 13)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Well Informed Appraisal of Authoritarian Conservatism	This book is a historical curiosity.  It is a monography written by an American academic about Laureano Gomez, a political leader who has been dead for thirty-five years, and who is forgotten by most people in his country (Colombia).  For those few that remember him, he is the Anti-Christ, the man who brought the violence to Colombia.  The book is a fair appraisal of Gomez's career and thought.  Perhaps only a foreigner can write fairly about the &quot;Tempest Man&quot;, leader of the Conservative party for thirty years and President for only a year and a half.<br />Laureano Gomez was born in the middle class and rapidly distinguished himself by his extreme militancy in politics and religion (although he was supposed to be an integrist Catholic he frequently clashed with bishops and priests).  He became an engineer (rather than a lawyer and a grammarian, which was the usual path to power in Colombia between 1900 and 1930) and a journalist.  His bid for notoriety came through in 1921 when, in alliance with a rising star of the Liberal party (and future President and constitutional reformer), Alfonso Lopez-Pumarejo, he brought about the resignation of President Marco Fidel Suarez on trumped-up charges of corruption.  In 1930 he became Party Leader and a very effective oppositionist.  His brand of opposition was extreme, and his verbal intemperancy was frequently blamed for excess by his followers and opponents.  He was accused of being a Nazi sympathizer, but that was very far from the case.  Laureano was a corporatist rather like the now forgotten Dollfuss, the Austrian Chancellor killed by Hitler's followers in 1934.  He was an authoritarian catholic, not a fascist.  In 1946 Laureano Gomez led his party to power, and in 1950 he became President in an uncontested election.  By that time violence had spiraled out of control, and in 1953 he was overthrown by Lieutenant General Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, who was supported by a rival faction of the Conservative Party.  He emigrated to Spain, where in 1956 he allied himself with Liberal leader Alberto Lleras to overthrow Rojas and re-establish civilian rule.  With Lleras, Laureano Gomez was the father of the &quot;National Front&quot;, a power sharing agreement that brought peace back to the country (although it was also blamed for the political immobilism that fueled armed leftist insurgency up to this day).  Laureano's son, Alvaro, inherited his mantle as a leader of the Conservative Party until 1990, when he retired to become a University lecturer.  In 1995 he was killed, another victim in the general lawlessness and violence that his father had fostered to some extent.  Alvaro Gomez never became President because in the popular mind he was often associated with his father who, rightly or wrongly, had been blamed for violence in Colombia.<br />A complex, flawed, interesting figure, this is a worthy review of Laureano Gomez's life and thought.	2001-07-11
US	51127281	R1KSDH5NX0HGFN	0871137836	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	3	125	161	N	N	Intriguing, but full of holes	This is an interesting text, the first book-length approach to the greatest Colombian criminal in history. As a Colombian, I am impressed by the amount of information of which I was heretofore unaware. If only it were true...<br /><br />In reality the book is full of mistakes, some of which would have been quite easy to detect and fix. These are just a few I found in a quick reading:<br /><br />(1) Simon Bolivar did not try to join Colombia with Peru and Venezuela to form the \\"Gran Colombia\\" (p. 16)(the \\"Gran Colombia\\" included Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela);  (2) The Rojas Pinilla dictatorship did not last five years (p. 18) (it lasted four years:1953-1957);  (3) Carlos Lehder and Jose Rodriguez Gacha were not \\"Antioquia Crime Bosses\\" (p. 29) (Lehder was from Quindio and Rodriguez was from Cundinamarca);  (4) President Alfonso Lopez Michelsen was not a founder of the Liberal Party (p. 62) (the Liberal Party dates back to mid-nineteenth century and thus could not have been founded by President Lopez Michelsen, who is still alive);  (5) President Cesar Gaviria Trujillo was never part of Bogota's elite (p. 122) (Gaviria comes from an upper-middle class family in the provincial town of Pereira);  (6) Marina Montoya was not a slender woman (p. 127) (Miss Montoya was a heavy-set woman);  (7) Father Garcia Herreros was not named Fernando (p. 130) (his name was Gabriel);  (8) The \\"Procuraduria General de la Nacion\\" is not \\"a kind of internal-affairs unit for the government\\" (p. 189) (the Procurador General is a constitutional level state official appointed by Congress and not part of the government);  (9) The government owned radio and television station is not called Intravision (it's named Inravision);  (10) Natives of Medellin are not called Medellinos (p. 280) (they are called medellinenses or just paisas).<br /><br />The book is full of mistakes in names and dates as well (we do like our names to be properly spelled, if it's not too much trouble), and it relies altogether too much on a self-serving account published by Escobar's brother, Roberto. The author's lack of familiarity with Colombian history and language is obvious, and pervasive. This makes it a bit hard to trust some of the more sensational revelations.<br /><br />As semi-fiction it's quite fun, though.	2001-06-24
US	51127281	R10LK6MWMV2O67	0226616517	358916697	The Great Melody: A Thematic Biography of Edmund Burke	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Burke is more than a few famous quotes	Everyone knows Edmund Burke's most famous quote: &quot;for evil to triumph, it is only necessary for good men to do nothing&quot;. As a former lecturer in political science, I was mainly familiar with Burke as the founder of Anglo-conservatism (infinitely more nuanced and modern than his equivalent in Franco-conservatism, the Count Joseph de Maistre). I had also read an early work, namely &quot;An Enquiry into the nature of the Beautiful and the Sublime&quot;, which I thought a brilliant little jewel. But there's much more about Burke than that. <br />O'Brien, the great man of Irish diplomacy, shows in this extraordinary book that Burke, whom recently history has shown as a fawning servant to the political leaders of his time (Rockingham and Pitt), was at the heart of the great fight between George III's royal absolutism and the emerging English democracy. Burke was on the right side of virtually all the fights he picked. He advocated equality before the law for the Irish subjects of the king, first tolerance and then freedom for the American colonies, the end of the colonialist abuses of the East India company, and a quarantine on the infectious ideas of the French Revolution. The later one is still a contentious affair. Zhou En Lai famously opined that it was still too early (in the 1970s) to judge the French Revolution. Burke would have had none of that. As early as 1790, in the &quot;benign&quot; initial phase of the revolution, he foresaw the Terror, the execution of the Royal Family, the Consulate and the Empire, and the French banner covering all of the Europe, in the name of &quot;Liberty, Equality, Fraternity&quot;. <br />O'Brien shows the extraordinary situation of an Irish Protestant (always accused of crypto-Catholicism) having great informal influence on the politics of Great Britain, while holding menial offices or representing various &quot;rotten boroughs&quot; in Parliament (this is no aspersion on Burke's memory- that's how politics was done at thetime, and anything that gave Burke a pulpit couldn't have been all bad). The &quot;Great Melody&quot; of the title provides the underlying themes around which O'Brien organizes the public part of Burke's life. Far from tiresome, this is a useful device that provides unity and coherence to Burke's thoughts and actions. O'Brien's attacks on mid-century historiography are perfectly adequate, given that much of what was written as that period was designed to regress Burke into irrelevancy, as a sycophant and a lackey. He never was that. He was a good and a great man, and O'Brien does him justice in his book. Perhaps the only fault that I could find in it is a tendency to assume the reader's prior knowledge of the arcanes of Irish history. But these are quibbles. If you can stomach a history of ideas, full of events and studded with memorable characters, this is the book for you.	2000-07-15
US	51127281	R1VG6Q5BLMA6X5	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Some shoddy editing mars an otherwise thoughtful book	Gary Wills has turned his elegant pen to a confusing and trying subject: the recent history of the Catholic Church, and the institutionalized deceit which, according to Wills,has defaced its mission. His arguments are in many ways indistinguishable from what a learned Protestant divine might write on the subject. He argues that neither the bishopry nor the priesthood are biblical. He says that the ordination of married men or women may not be opposed on scriptural grounds. He believes Paul VI sealed the decay of the Church by issuing his enciclical on contraception (Humanae Vitae), and says he did it only to avoid contradiction with previous declarations by Pius XI. He also takes a stab at a popular issue nowadays, whether the Church gave help or not to Jews during the Shoah. His analysis of the hierarchy's handling of the child molestation cases, and his view on the prevalence of gays in the Church are similar to lifting a rock in the field: underneath all sort of writhing forms and decaying bits of food are to be found, and it's not a pretty sight. To the bad guys (the Popes, especially Pius IX, Pius XII, Paul VI and John Paul II), liars and authoritarian cheats, he opposes the humane (John XXIII and John Paul I) and the truthful (Lord Acton, Henry Cardinal Newman and Saint Augustin). I can say Mr. Wills has given plenty of food for thought to this Catholic. I am not certain Mr. Wills is a Catholic at this point, but there is surely nothing wrong with that. It is regrettable that such an interesting review of thought should be marred by shoddy editing. Mr. Wills refers to Pius IX period as a pope as lasting 42 years, when in fact it lasted 10 years less, and he specifically mentions it later on (he refers to the Pope's period as 1846-1878, which is correct). He refers to the founders of Catholic parties hurt by Pius IX hostility to democracy as Luigi Bosco and Gil Rables, when he surely knows the correct names are Luigi Sturzo and Gil Robles. Mispellings abound, and I am sure they are not Mr. Wills'. He should get around to fixing these details in the second edition.	2000-06-19
US	51127281	R2BQIREGPRAP20	067451470X	629723544	Law and Literature: Revised and Enlarged Edition	Books	4	24	45	N	N	No deconstructionist twaddle- Rather, illuminating insights	Judge Posner is one of the more wondrous polymaths of his generation.  Law and Literature, although not the greater of his achievements, is a thoughtful opus, full of illuminating insights.  I read his book 6 or 7  years ago but I remember how impressed I was by the sharpness of his  analysis of the legal implications of Kafka's Trial and Melville's Billy  Budd.  I have been roused to giving my opinion because all the other  commentators are so uniformly negative about the book.  Clearly, either  they are missing something, or I am wide off the mark.  I propose  it's the  former, and recommend \\"Law and Literature\\" to anyone who wants to  know how one of the heights of contemporary legal thought tackles many of  the issues that have occupied anyone who knows the law and enjoys  literature.  The fact that Posner doesn't indulge in deconstructionist  twaddle is no reason to abstain.	2000-03-30
