US	51126958	RZ85PQQZRSO9G	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Is there anything left to be said?	I have browsed through these and find them mostly either the \\"I'm on the right and this book is right on\\" or \\"I'm on the left, and how can he think Michael Moore a bigger problem than President Bush?\\" Neither of these does much to illuminate whether this book has any value.<br /><br />I'm not a media insider, but it seems to me that Bernie suffers from the same problem so many others do: they think they are more influential than they are. Michael Moore is a jerk, a liar, a fraud, a creep, a thug, a bully and a fool. And maybe even a traitor. But he is not screwing up America. He is the product of a screwed up America, and confusing the two is much like thinking the sneeze caused the cold. Some of his suggestions are important, the politicians who seek to overturn and undo everything American, the ACLU, which is on a hunt to remove the word God from every public place, the video gamers and music companies who peddle grotesque slop. But again, why do Americans buy it? How did we come to find this entertaining? That's the interesting question, left untouched in this drive-by analysis.<br /><br />I am a rock-solid conservative, saddened by the choices our country takes. Both publicly and privately, we have become a nation of open-handed beggars, looking for free lunch and someone to blame. Goldberg's cheap, low-level attacks, all too simplistic and shallow and sloppy and casual, do nothing toward explaining how that came about. The folks he identifies are often emblematic, not the cause of the trouble itself. Come on....Amy Richards? She is a selfish jerk, but she is unknown to 99.99% of Americans. What she exemplifies is a whopper of a problem, but she did not cause anything. (Other than the death of two babies...)<br /><br />Any reader of conservative literature will have heard all this before, though much better written, not nearly so repetitive, and without all the typos. That's a shame! The whole thing feels like a quickie, without much energy, care, or thought, like listening to your well-informed but blowhard uncle pontificate just a bit too long.ll-informed but blowhard uncle pontificate just a bit too long.	2005-09-12
US	51126958	R28V6LMMB2FEO7	0385319932	283750903	The Napoleon of Crime: The Life and Times of Adam Worth, Master Thief	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Terribly disappointing	If you meander through all these reviews, checking the lower-rated ones, you will get a fairly accurate view of this book. I have read hundreds of true crime books, and this ranks near the bottom. It is a fascinating topic. Or should be. But in the hands of this author, it is a tedious, irritating, blather. Let me explain.<br /><br />Two of my favorite reads in the past few years make interesting comparisons. Big Trouble by J. Anthony Lukas was one of the most fascinating books I've ever read. Lukas wandered far and wide, reeling in everything and everyone, and in doing so, built a portrait of a time and place that was riveting. Every detail was useful, every speculation added value. Some of the reviewers found the rambles bothersome; I have rarely finished such a big book wishing it were even longer, but Big Trouble left me wanting more.<br /><br />A similar book was Dark Horse by Kenneth Ackerman. Extraneous details were seamlessly woven into the tale, making the world come alive and the characters multi-dimensional. I could almost hear the creak of boots and smell the cigar smoke. Skilled writing and skilled choosing.<br /><br />But this book ambles pointlessly, dragging in details that are neither of interest in themselves nor add to the tale being told. Long excursions into the lives of everyone who wanders into the main tale, endless condescending sermonizing about Victorian moralizing and double-standards, repetitive and irritating discursions into the \\"double\\" which the author seems to think the Victorians invented, and the most silly and irritating speculation sink this tale. Which is amazing, for the story of Adam Worth in the hands of the most plodding storyteller should be gripping. The man was a doer of great evil (which Macintyre blows off rather casually; Adam Worth left a wake of broken businesses, crushed dreams, falsely accused victims, and bankrupted people, but because he shot no one, and was \\"elegant\\" it seems OK.) He committed some astonishingly brave and brazen crimes. But there just isn't enough there that we can know, so invented details that grow wearying are heaped on.<br /><br />At one point, Macintyre compares Worth to Captain Nemo. Now, this is a weak comparison on its own grounds, but then we get something about \\"no one knows if Worth read the book, but if he did, he would certainly see himself there.\\" Now there's a pointless speculation. One of the common tactics of authors trying to puff up a lesser talent is to compare their achievements in some irrelevant way. \\"As Shakespeare did, So-and-so lived in Stratford,\\" thereby gratuitously tying a grade z author and an acknowledged master. At gerat length the author \\"compares and contrasts\\" Worth and J.P. Morgan, in a stupendously overblown manner. Over and over we are told how Worth would have enjoyed this quip by Wilde. Give us a break, pal. The guy was a crook, a scuzz, a humbug, and a thug who hurt many, many people, much like Melmotte in Trollope's novel, The Way We Live Now (another book we don't know if Worth read.)mes. But there just isn't enough there that we can know, so invented details that grow wearying are heaped on.     At one point, Macintyre compares Worth to Captain Nemo. Now, this is a weak comparison on its own grounds, but then we get something about \\"no one knows if Worth read the book, but if he did, he would certainly see himself there.\\" Now there's a pointless speculation. One of the common tactics of authors trying to puff up a lesser talent is to compare their achievements in some irrelevant way. \\"As Shakespeare did, So-and-so lived in Stratford,\\" thereby gratuitously tying a grade z author and an acknowledged master. At gerat length the author \\"compares and contrasts\\" Worth and J.P. Morgan, in a stupendously overblown manner. Over and over we are told how Worth would have enjoyed this quip by Wilde. Give us a break, pal. The guy was a crook, a scuzz, a humbug, and a thug who hurt many, many people, much like Melmotte in Trollope's novel, The Way We Live Now (another book we don't know if Worth read.)	2005-08-03
US	51126958	R1K5FX69UREPMY	0803259506	268295127	Five Seasons: A Baseball Companion	Books	5	40	43	N	N	How much we've lost	This is a depressing book. Not because its subject is depressing; we're not talking about the Ukranian famine of 1932 here. No, this is a \\"You are there\\" book written at the end of baseball as we knew it. We weren't aware of that at the time, though we could see that things were changing. But we thought, and were repeatedly assured, that the changes would work themselves out. However, if you're over 40, you know they didn't, and baseball is a far less fun activity as a fan than it was then. There are innumerable little tidbits that make you see how much things have deteriorated. Tom Seaver pitches 12 innings. 12! A manager today would have the talk radio hordes ready to unman him for that, but it is only one of many. Steve Carlton threw 30 complete games in 1972. Contemplate that. 30. More than most teams, heck, probably more than most divisions today. He won 27 games on a team that won 59 total. Unfathomable. But unlike the managers who fear their million dollar boys will throw out their arms, Carlton came back and achieved that for more than another decade. Sure he was a great. But there are innumerable tales through here of guys who weren't greats, just solid players, performing in ways that would be unheard of, or at the minimum, worth millions of dollars, today, and doing it happily, without whining, griping, complaining, simpering or gloating.<br /><br />Angell chronicles 5 wonderful seasons in the history of baseball, the years of Finley's Athletics and the Big Red Machine, and a new owner for the Yankees named George Steinbrenner, the arrival of Robin Yount and Mark Fidrych and George Brett and oh so many others. But because it is reporting, he also documents the arrival of guys who flashed briefly and then vanished. Baseball is like that.<br /><br />But it is the creeping arrival of ugliness that hurts to read. Reggie's showboating. Young kids who don't respect their manager. And big money. The sports page went from stories about hits and errors to tales of contract negotiations, threats, and free agency. I know money has always been a part of the game, and there were drunks, wife-beaters, and thugs in baseball since the beginning. But the big contracts and big payrolls have made all the teams change their perspective, and though throughout this book the players assure us we won't think differently about them as a result of these changes, we do. Teams are no longer teams as they once were, a reliable group of guys who continued for years together and added the missing piece or replaced the aging veteran incrementally. They are an assemblage of whomever can be gathered up to make a winner. Because we still want a winner, but we no longer care about the guys who do the winning. How sad. And for me and many of my generation, how boring. Baseball just isn't what it was, and it isn't the DH or the long season or frigid World Series games. No, it's money, and the game has been permanently corrupted by it. So read this to see how it once was, how glory and honor could be achieved on the field rather than in the contract.<br /><br />And feel disheartened for what we've lost, with nothing good to replace it.es of contract negotiations, threats, and free agency. I know money has always been a part of the game, and there were drunks, wife-beaters, and thugs in baseball since the beginning. But the big contracts and big payrolls have made all the teams change their perspective, and though throughout this book the players assure us we won't think differently about them as a result of these changes, we do. Teams are no longer teams as they once were, a reliable group of guys who continued for years together and added the missing piece or replaced the aging veteran incrementally. They are an assemblage of whomever can be gathered up to make a winner. Because we still want a winner, but we no longer care about the guys who do the winning. How sad. And for me and many of my generation, how boring. Baseball just isn't what it was, and it isn't the DH or the long season or frigid World Series games. No, it's money, and the game has been permanently corrupted by it. So read this to see how it once was, how glory and honor could be achieved on the field rather than in the contract.  <br /> <br />And feel disheartened for what we've lost, with nothing good to replace it.	2005-06-30
US	51126958	R2R9NCZFSTZY9V	1595550119	887393285	Hoodwinked: How Intellectual Hucksters Have Hijacked American Culture	Books	5	66	87	N	N	Opens many cans that the left would prefer closed	This is not a perfect book. My biggest gripe is with the stingy way in which the footnotes are done; checking a source would require some cross-referencing to see which one is being referred to. And the speed with which these complex topics are explored does not seem sufficient to do them justice. And there are the obligatory negative or positive adjectives designed to color our evaluations, the good guys are designated as esteemed or well-regarded, the bad guys are diminutive or one-legged or other such irrelevancies. But these are minor quibbles with a book that, if we are lucky, will generate some serious discussion. Because the position is clear. Chomsky and Mead and Kinsey and on and on were not crackpots, dupes, deluded, or sick. They were liars. They have deliberately forged, falsified, and fooled, and have moved to the pantheon of American Greats in doing so.<br /><br />How has this happened? Well, Jack Cashill is a journalist, not a historian, and he writes in a breezy, informed way that tells the tales in all their sickening and profoundly disheartening detail. Put quite simply, folks with axes to grind kept those axes secret, and used \\"science\\" and \\"careful scholarship\\" to promulgate theories that were just plain wrong. The great evils of the 60s, the causal sex, the communists and the capitalists are the same, the relativity of all morals, all came from these liars who were eager to reap the benefits of such thinking. And they did. Oh boy, did they. And how long will we pay? How many more dollars are to be thrown away on multiculturalism and AIDS research and other politically motivated shananigans that enrich the proper people while impoverishing us financially and morally.<br /><br />If this book does make a splash, you can be sure the ad hominem attacks will begin. Read the reviews of any controversial book from the right (or is that oxymoronic, as any book from the right is by definition controversial?), and name-calling, insults, and slander predominate. There is certain to be a review calling Cashill a Fascists, a bigot a lunatic or a Klansman. There is all-too-often little actual examination of the issues. And this book opens the door as to why that is. Why does Planned Parenthood defend Margaret Sanger so virulently? What difference does it make if she was a racist or not? Well, the answer must be the one drop rule. One drop of a faulty argument disqualifies her from ever joining any conversation again. That's the left's most powerful discussion method, just bar the door. PP could say \\"Yes, Sanger believed things we do not believe any more. So what?\\" But instead, they contort and lie and manipulate and threaten and whitewash and mislead and. Since they do not address ideas, they cannot evaluate whether an idea is a good one or not, and instead resort to the brutal attacks and name-calling for which they are so famous. Just ask any of the whistle-blowers named in this book.certain to be a review calling Cashill a Fascists, a bigot a lunatic or a Klansman. There is all-too-often little actual examination of the issues. And this book opens the door as to why that is. Why does Planned Parenthood defend Margaret Sanger so virulently? What difference does it make if she was a racist or not? Well, the answer must be the one drop rule. One drop of a faulty argument disqualifies her from ever joining any conversation again. That's the left's most powerful discussion method, just bar the door. PP could say \\"Yes, Sanger believed things we do not believe any more. So what?\\" But instead, they contort and lie and manipulate and threaten and whitewash and mislead and. Since they do not address ideas, they cannot evaluate whether an idea is a good one or not, and instead resort to the brutal attacks and name-calling for which they are so famous. Just ask any of the whistle-blowers named in this book.	2005-06-27
US	51126958	R2FIN6L7SCXV34	1565119347	488989918	100 Ways to Motivate Others	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Chock full of useful ideas	While not a ferocious reader of business/self-help books, I do read those that come especially highly recommended. Dale Dauten, one of the finest business writers around, thought this the best audiobook of the year. Good enough for me.<br /><br />While I cannot compare it to as many as he can, it is indeed one of the most useful books I've listened to. Broken into 100 short snippets, each idea opens with a good quote, explores and examines, and then tidies up nicely. I am not a salesperson, not a manager, and not a person readily identified as a member of the target audience. But this book had plenty of good things in it.<br /><br />I'll start with just one. \\"Manage agreements, not people\\" is an early, and recurring, tip. How simple. Teachers tried this years ago when the \\"grade contract\\" idea was rampant. But moving one step beyond a simple contractual basis of a relationship, it provides a clear and vivid way of looking at all interactions, with spouse, children, co-workers. I cannot manage anyone but myself; well, I've known that for years, but how to function well with others if that is true has been a problem. This book offers specific suggestions.<br /><br />Steve is no misty-eyed rah-rah guy, but a dogged thinker with clear ideas and some potent myth-busting analysis. Slow down. Do one thing at a time. and really pay attention to whatever it is you're doing now. Think long term. You'll do much better. In the words of Jane Austen \\"Take my word for it, if you are in too great a hurry, you will certainly live to repent it.\\"	2005-05-23
US	51126958	R8P3RLVOFW0V	075405358X	554191539	Three Men in a Boat	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	This recording is the best BOT ever!	I have listened to hundreds of books on tape. None has ever provided the pleasure this one was. Three Men in a Boat is an amazing book, oh yes. As the reviewers say...brilliant, scathing, funny, clever and a permanent fixture in the mind after one reading. Years later you'll remember the cheese in the train or the vanishing friend in the field or the way Uncle Podger hangs a picture. And I cannot imagine a smile won't come to your lips when you've done so.<br /><br />But Ian Carmichael clearly inhabits this book, making each voice come alive, offering an absolutely spellbinding reading. He is serious, pompous, twee, giggly, ponderous, ironic and hysterical when needed. No review can do it justice....you must hear him read the story of the mounted trout or the glass of water to know just what a great actor can do with wonderful prose. Listen. Listen again. And again. You won't be able to restrain yourself.	2005-02-25
US	51126958	R24YV19WB56WRF	0525204970	376817458	Sleeping Dogs Lie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Close to timeless, but certainly excellent	This is an excellent book. There is enough deception to keep your attention, enough variety of character to keep you interested, and enough skillful writing to make you sit back in admiration.<br /><br />The tale is simple but yet far from simple. A young man needs help. And a psychiatrist, who thinks he knows it all, has to see whether his profession really has something to offer this needy young man. He knows all the right words, the proper diagnoses, and the names and papers, but struggles with making all this \\"stuff\\" actually apply in the lives of people around him. Hugh Welchman cannot make it work, and the beauty of his self-discovery, the layers of deception and confusion and misery and unhappiness, obscured by the fog of Cambridge and the fog of his cigarettes, is just delightful. \\"A world in which things are not what they seem\\" as every film trailer says, and in this case, it is true. And never to be filmed by Hollywood, for the falseness here is not on the surface, but beneath layers of gentility, English propriety, and tradition.<br /><br />A beautiful tale. Worth a careful read.	2005-02-24
US	51126958	R2ZSMVREN3XXEX	0375414827	998457405	The Language Police:  How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn	Books	2	14	40	N	N	Great topic, important info, but badly presented	I have wanted to read this book since I first heard of it. A timely Christmas present solved the first part of the problem; I eagerly jumped in immediately. And found many many problems.<br /><br />The book is badly organized, repetitive, tedious, cliche riddled, prone to tarring with very broad brushes, and outrageously oversimplified. In fact, the book tells a great story in a terribly flawed way, much as the history books she reviews do. But she has no one to blame but herself. I could list many examples, but some of the other reviewers have done a good job on that. Let me just tackle one.<br /><br />When knocking the attacks that originate on the \\"right\\", she lumps all manner of wildly divergent groups together. Names are strung together as if they all believe the same things, seek the same limitations, oppose the same passages. The \\"right\\" is a block of thinkers all trying to squelch evolution (which she blithely dismisses), ugliness, Satanism, secular humanism, on an on, blah blah blah. She never addresses whether the objections of some might be more valid than others. Whether the virulent anti-Christianity she so properly complains about later in the book might not be worth questioning and opposing  No, she knows the perfect answer to every problem, she knows the proper amount of negotiation required, she arrogantly can determine just where the proper \\"middle\\" path is.  Just as the windbag authors she excoriates know. It is hard to keep your voice out of the discussion when you feel passionately.<br /><br />A limitation I didn't see mentioned elsewhere is pedagogical. The kind of teaching she imagines cannot happen in high school. Read two textbooks? As a former teacher, if I could have gotten my students to read one book I would have been thrilled. But two different books describing the same facts? In a single year? With students three to five years below reading level? Whoa...not in 50 minutes a day, lady. Not happening.	2005-01-05
US	51126958	R1RHSAEFKJIRHG	031233317X	672280148	How to Remodel a Man: Tips and Techniques on Accomplishing Something You Know Is Impossible but Want to Try Anyway	Books	3	15	17	N	N	3.5 would be closer...it's pretty good	Do you get Bruce's e-mail newsletter? Have you read his former book? Then this book will be familiar, possibly a tad too familiar. While there is much to like, and even many laugh-out-loud moments, there is also a feeling that the new, Hollywood Bruce has misplaced the family soul that once made his writing so delightful. Divorced from the wife that played such an important role in his previous writing, living in LA and working as a writer on the show 8 Rules, Bruce has made it. And also lost it. There is a pervasive feeling throughout this book of \\"product\\", something created and packaged and marketed by the same people who make all those movies about people I've never met, doing jobs that look nothing like reality. Yes, humans play the roles, and quite likely humans even wrote the stories, but those humans are unlike those who live elsewhere on this planet. Good imitations, but synthetic nevertheless.<br /><br />The best writing, the stuff that demonstrates Bruce is an author and not just a humorist, is not the contrived and goofy discussions with his man pals, funny though they sometimes are, but the writing about his youthful longings and painful struggles at Teen Town. That was excellent. Good, solid, heartfelt writing. Wish there'd been more.<br /><br />Bruce is a funny guy, quotable, clever, and adept at playing the Woody Allen \\"I hit him in the knee with my groin\\" kind of humor. But a little of that goes a long way for me, and this book exceeds \\"little\\" by quite a distance. So, while lots to enjoy in this book, it feels much less \\"real\\" than his earlier work.<br /><br />And to those who quibble that Bruce is not Dave Barry. Well, he's not. And Dave Barry's not Jerome K. Jerome. So what? Either a guy is good, or not. Dave can be very funny (and can be pretty lame as well.) So can Bruce. Enjoy it for what it is.	2004-10-04
US	51126958	RNX4A8IRQ8O9C	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Didn't like it for a different reason	Advertising attempts to create a phony moment and make it appear real. But it is only a moment: a print ad, a billboard, a thirty or sixty second slice of a life we are supposed to wish we had. They do not attempt to sustain the illusion. This book, written by an advertising executive, starts out with a intriguing, if not particularly well-written, bang. But it promptly spirals deliriously out of illusion into plain old stupidity.<br />I never felt anything other than grotesquely manipulated while reading this. Then, when the saving plot twist comes (no spoiler here, as the book is written in the first person, so I knew he wasn't going to die) I thought of the old National Lampoon response to writing yourself into a corner \\"Suddenly, everyone was run over by a truck.\\" That's what happened here, as the prestidigitator tried to pull a hippo out of his hat and flopped. \\"Oh, come on.....\\" was my response, and I don't think you're supposed to feel that when reading a suspense novel.<br />Numerous technical problems, such as how do two authors writing separate versions of the same tale have such a uniform style, as well as cliches, stereotypes and cardboard characters all combine to leave one not just unfulfilled, but irritated. Less than nothing here, as the illusionist could not maintain his promising deception.	2004-02-08
US	51126958	R2SQ94N8ZQQUVY	0679640355	786713457	Crazy Salad: Some Things About Women (Modern Library Humor and Wit)	Books	2	37	66	N	N	A New York Snob Speaks	Nora Ephron is quite sure of herself and her friends, and laughs heartily at the yahoos in the Midwest who cook and love their husbands. While her writing is often amusing, her attitude of condescension and wearying self-glorification is grotesque. And to see her way back at the beginning of the Women's Movement equally sure of how circumstances would improve for women is especially painful. She poo-poohs those who wonder if women's life will actually improve, (and her own &quot;Encounter Group&quot; partners certainly cast doubt upon that) and lives in a world where people such as herself need not be troubled by real life.<br />As a historical document there is much to glean. For instance, the disgust with Watergate is palpable; yet our disgust with far greater crimes today is much less apparent. A clever lady, with a  few interesting observations, but annoying and smug without being especially insightful.	2003-12-15
US	51126958	R27PU60LR73LWH	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Reasonably good content, bad presentation	Journalism essays compiled into books are dangerous propositions. Things change, the immediate is no longer immediate, and the heaping of unconnected articles together makes for disjointed and wearying repetitiveness. I wish he had taken these thoughts and composed a book exposing what he exposes. It's in there, just buried way too far down.<br />But those who attack this as racist are not just missing the mark, they are missing the point. The automatic tarring of anyone who questions affirmative action as racist is precisely what he is writing about. The virulent name-calling, designed not to open discussion but to close it, keeps suspicion alive on both sides. Blacks are allowed to mistrust, insult, attack, criticize, question in every way, and slander anyone they find straying too far from the party line. But why do some whites mistrust blacks? Well, if reading the piece based on an essay by bell hooks doesn't chill you, you are suffering from a terminally closed mind.<br />A far better book is Peter Wood's Diversity. It offers many of the same arguments, but does so in a cogent and spirited manner. Anyone who calls these authors racist does not know what the word means (though I wonder how many Americans have any idea....) So, though Horowitz is a fine writer, this is not his best work.	2003-10-01
US	51126958	R2WTBGC2B6JGYF	1893554074	422290596	Breaking Free: Public School Lessons and the Imperative of School Choice	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Many lessons work, some fail	Breaking Free tries hard to be the one-size-fits-all destroyer of the public school temple. And it comes very close. But its ancestry as a bunch of shorter journalism, and its seemingly complete faith in principals, keep it from being perfect.<br />Mr. Stern seems to believe that dynamic principals can single-handedly reshape a school. That is true to a point. But there are two problems he fails to address. One is that these dynamic leaders are hard to find, and even harder to identify. I worked for many years in public schools and knew many principals. Among the worst was a charming and pretty lady who knew the jargon, conveyed authority and confidence, and was \\"for the children.\\" She was a PR prize, known in the community and valued as an \\"expert.\\" She was also a very bad principal. Cronies were in positions of authority, cronies who were always \\"downtown\\" or \\"at a conference\\" but never around. She wanted everything to run wonderfully, and did not want to know anything about the details. So details were kept away. I am reasonably certain that standardized tests were \\"corrected\\" by the teachers, giving comparatively good scores to very weak students. Even in a world of choice, it would be hard to pinpoint her school as anything other than a success. Good scores, great leadership, happy staff. It all looked good. And it was all a charade.<br />Principals have plenty of other ways of jiggering the books. And giving them additional unregulated power will only allow those with a deceptive streak to provide jobs for friends and lovers, keep critics away, and create personal fiefdoms where their word goes. So, though a dynamic, dedicated principal, willing to work slavishly long hours for low pay, may be the answer, just how many of those guys are there?<br />But his devastating critique of the New York City public schools, with their entrenched unions that ultimately make the only rules that matter, and his comparisons with (admittedly selected) private schools doing far more with much less should be required reading for those who believe the Chicken Littles in the education world who run screaming whenever any change is proposed.<br />Public education is a near-total failure. It is outrageously expensive. Teachers control the language of debate, the politicians pretending to debate, and the future voters, so their terms and their ability to exclude critics make them apparently invulnerable. But enough people are avoiding public schools, even the best ones, that change will have to come. I just hope we don't wait until the entire system is in ruins.ar more with much less should be required reading for those who believe the Chicken Littles in the education world who run screaming whenever any change is proposed.<br />Public education is a near-total failure. It is outrageously expensive. Teachers control the language of debate, the politicians pretending to debate, and the future voters, so their terms and their ability to exclude critics make them apparently invulnerable. But enough people are avoiding public schools, even the best ones, that change will have to come. I just hope we don't wait until the entire system is in ruins.	2003-09-11
US	51126958	R3F333XI62QVQM	1893554627	81897477	Diversity: The Invention of a Concept	Books	5	44	56	N	N	6 for content, 4 for style, averages to 5	Must reads are everywhere. But few of them address such a toxic and dangerous plague as this one. The diversity movement, hiding in the garb of peace, love, and tolerance, is working hard to destroy the qualities that make America America. Sound harsh? It is. But Peter Wood documents with names and dates.<br />Why is education heading down the toilet? Well, there are many reasons, but diversity is certainly a major contributor. How about the fact that what passes for art these days leaves most people cold, if they're lucky, disgusted if they're not? Diversity again.<br />Diversity is a new concept, as Dr. Wood scrupulously points out. It is not an American ideal, but a recently coined invention to disguise the failure of affirmative action.  Its purpose is to remove judgement and evaluation, to protect the incompetent and the insignificant, and to force everyone to embrace everyone else (except those cranky, right-wing wackos...don't embrace those nasty people!)<br />The reason I knock this down a point on style is that when Dr. Wood is good, he is very, very good. There are pages that are as funny as they are illuminating, Thus the weaker stuff looks much lamer in comparison. But minor quibble. This is an important book, a book that will go a long way to helping us rid the country of the bad ideas that are masquerading as the only possible good ones. If we read it. And share it. And promote it. Please do so.	2003-05-30
US	51126958	R1R0OFT90H85A8	0399145672	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Can't even add the parts together	Some books are more than the sum of their parts. These would be literature, books that resonate in the head long after they are put down, books full of people and ideas and emotion. Some books equal the sum of their parts. These would be skillfully done fiction. Pleasant, worthy of the time invested, but not \\"for the ages\\" or even for more than right now. Then there are books such as this one. It is way less than the sum of its parts, and trust me, even that ain't much. Best forgotten, though remembering them would be the more difficult task.<br />While there are some amusing pieces in here, they are scattered like oases in the vast desert. It is incredibly lame, predictable, and dull. The characters would have to expand to be one-dimensional, and there are too many of them to even make much of an impression. It begins to feel like the Keystone Kops after a while, one zany, wild and spectacularly unamusing event after another. Improbable coincidences and silly plot twists heap up like ants on a grasshopper carcass.<br />Thankfully the book is very brief. Though there are over 300 pages, those pages look like many twenty-page college term papers, with wide margins, broad line-spacing, and large type.<br />I have been reading Dave Barry since he began writing back in Pittsburgh. I've read millions of his columns. The man is funny. But a funny man does not necessarily equal a funny novel. This is not funny. Not well-plotted. Not suspenseful. Not clever. Not witty. Not sparkling. Not interesting. Not amusing. Not fun. Not surprising. Not well-written. Not worth the money.	2003-04-24
US	51126958	R6LN5W788C2DO	0425181782	767852638	Icebound	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Plodding narrative diminishes the amazing story	Pedestrian prose abounds in this tale of an astonishing adventure that has messages for everyone. How vanity and position will cover the truth. How armchair theoreticians do not imagine their speculative webs will claim human lives. How foolish rivalries within the military will cost lives. How the dead are easily blamed whenever convenient. How reputations can be preserved or enhanced by judicious truth telling and equally judicious truth avoiding. How politics affects everything that happens in Washington, and pious politicians can mouth words that they know are a lie, all the while claiming to be \\"for the children\\" or some such [slop.]<br />No, this isn't today's news, but the unknown story of a very early, very poorly planned, polar expedition. No need for a summary, it is already here. But this book tells a tale of amazing endurance and staggering bravery that shames those of us sitting in warm houses with tennis elbow or a sore throat. What man can accomplish is truly astounding.<br />I wish the author had included a few maps of the locations; these are not easy places to locate in an atlas. And the spare writing wrings some of the joy from it; I had to remind myself of just what an amazing tale this was. I don't want shrieking, but the laconic style diminishes a tale of heroism rarely seen. A worthy read.	2003-03-26
US	51126958	R26Y7BK69BEAK5	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Surprisingly limp	The previous owner of my house left a collection of books behind, mostly spiritual (in the worst sense of the word) and contemporary fiction. I am not much of a reader of popular fiction, and this book, my first experience with John Grisham, is a perfect example of why.<br />I started with no preconceptions; I have not seen any films based on his work, nor read a word he has written. But I did know he is a multi-gajillion selling author who writes high-powered thrillers.<br />This book is neither. It is a fictional memoir, and as such loses its power in both realms. Since it is fiction, the agaionies described lose some of their clout. There are many charming books about growing up in the rural South, tales such as My Dog Skip or The Year The Lights Came On, stories of daily life in a world as remote as ancient Persia. There are also many high-octane novels about the evil that lurks in the heart of men. But rarely have I read a book with so little of either charm or energy. This is metaphor-free, almost adjective-free, writing, a long recitation of he said, we did, I walked, she moved, Pappy drove, on and on and on. No suggestions, no implications, no connections of any kind are added to any of the prose. It is amazing to me that a famous writer could write so long and yet use so little poetic language. The few adjectives used are cliched and trite, the swirling water, the bouncing children, the dark sky. And you'll seek fruitlessly for an evocative simile or metaphor.<br />The plot (such as it is) drives the story, and it is a fascinating look at a world recently here, but thankfully long gone. A world of bitterness, back-breaking labor, narrow-minded religiosity and limited visions is the world Grisham describes, a place he (and I) were eager to leave. But this feels like the book a person with no writing experience would compose, one of those novels someone who was \\"always told they should write a book about their childhood\\" would write. The lifeless prose drags along like the butter beans in the story. Sustaining, nutritious, even solid, but without much sparkle or flavor. Not bad, but not much good either.along like the butter beans in the story. Sustaining, nutritious, even solid, but without much sparkle or flavor. Not bad, but not much good either.	2003-01-07
US	51126958	R271OIEAL1KFRT	0609605917	758339585	Portrait of a Burger as a Young Calf: The Story of One Man, Two Cows, and the Feeding of a Nation	Books	2	21	33	N	N	Disappointing	As a person who has embraced vegetarianism not for a few months in college, but for all of my adult life (27 years), I really wanted to find this the hard-hitting expose the cover suggests: \\"Recalling Upton Sinclair's 'The Jungle' \\" No, not quite. Not even close.<br />While the book examines the dairy to beef story, it does so in a fairly innocuous way that seems to be how many carnivores think. Well, it's not that bad, the people are hard-working, the animals may be mistreated, but it's not for long blah blah. There is one hard-core vegetarian in the book, and he's a full-fledged kook.<br />The author performs the classic carnivorous cop-out at the end, preserving the animals he cares about but ignoring those he doesn't. (This after a lengthy phony suspenseful buildup--or at least felt pretty phony to me.) He acknowledges how simple it is when we see the animals as only members of a group, then drops it as if it is self-evident that one really has to do this.<br />Not a bad book, but not exceptional, provocative, or poetic. I did not feel compelled to read any of it aloud to my wife--my usual evaluative technique. I wonder who his audience is. Not I.	2002-09-23
US	51126958	R37RIT73EO3WEZ	0684827360	187598424	For Your Own Good: The Anti-Smoking Crusade and the Tyranny of Public Health	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	A little redundant &amp; unfocused, but sure to light your fire	This book will certainly set you aflame. Whether you hate smoking (as I do), prefer civil liberties (as I do), and/or despise the busybodies who know best how we should live our lives (as I very much do), you will find something here to excite you. If you belong to that latter group--please read it and stop your meddling. You do not know what's best for everyone!<br />I wish he had spent more time attacking the medical model of &quot;addiction&quot;. This has changed our society in more ways than we can contemplate, and all for the worse. But his naming names and dates of those who have told lies in furtherance of a good cause is worth the price of admission alone. A good book, one that tells a story that cannot even get to the sidelines of our know-it-all culture, and asks questions we do not permit to be asked.<br />For those who prefer freedom and personal responsibility, this book delivers one knock-out blow after another. Use his data and arguments and you'll reduce opponents to name-calling.	2002-08-20
US	51126958	R3ORBRMVQ5GP6L	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	3	15	18	N	N	A former doubter (like me) a current believer (like me)	I have read several Christian Apologetics. This is neither the best nor the worst. There is something new in here, at least for me, as the author takes a journalistic approach and interviews various scholars with particular areas of expertise and seeing how they would address skepticism in their domain. Some are better than others. Some more interesting than others. And some more compelling than others.<br />Its goal is to convince the unbeliever of the divinity of Jesus. That is a mighty tall order. A skeptic actually reading this book will have one of two purposes, either to find more ammunition to use in his fight against religion, or to actually learn more that might help him decide. As I was not an unbeliever when I read it (though I was a virulent one for many years) I cannot speak to its efficacy on convincing. But it will provide the unbeliever with plenty of new ammunition.<br />The simplicity with which he destroys opposition is ridiculous. \\"Well, what about this objection?\\" he asks the designated expert. And the expert replies \\"Oh, that is insignificant. No reputable scholar believes that any more\\" and with a casual wave, the question is dismissed. Most receive that, a few get answers, but rarely do they seem strong and convincing to someone who doubts.<br />The phony suspense--when he visits many of the scholars he wonders whether this one will be able to deal with his objection? If they didn't succeed, I don't think we'd be reading about it. It annoyed me every time.<br />At the conclusion of several of the interviews, he asks how their investigations have affected their belief...does he really expect (or would he even print it if someone did?) anyone to say \\"Well, after thirty years of study, my faith has been diminished by what I've read?\\" I like powerful stories of conversion and conviction, these are not that.<br />Every expert is esteemed, or scholarly, or prestigious. This is a common ploy in books like this, one I find especially irritating. Let the person speak for himself and let his argument stand on its own. I do not care whether he was educated at Harvard or taught at Oxford; many fools have done both. I do not care which publications have printed his articles. there is no credibility in this. The only credibility necessary is a strong, compelling, and cogent description of the facts. He wastes way too much time trying to build his experts up.<br />Why is he so concerned with appearance of his experts? Does it make any difference? But we repeatedly get a physical description and a description of the office, as if this means something, but we have both tidy and untidy men, so it really means nothing other than people are different.<br />Chuckled. Once is enough with this word--he uses it way too often.<br />Now on to some of the many good points:<br />The personal stories, especially of a Jewish-hippie-druggie-seeker-minister transformation, make good reading. I am always much more interested in the \\"what makes people actually change their minds?\\" question. Belief is about desire; it must be based on facts, but facts alone will not do the job. There must be something inside the yearner that makes him want to change.<br />And there is one wonderful argument I've not seen before, among the many I have: the complete discarding of all the past by the early and numerous Jewish converts. Within weeks of Christ's death, hundreds,a nd then thousands of Jews, for whom their rules and their history were what made them who they were, turned their back on it. We cannot understand such a shift, as we are pretty fluid in what we believe. But this was an amazing transformation, and one that would not happen without some powerful force behind it. Why did these converts forsake the religion of their fathers, completely turn their backs on generations of tradition, and embrace something that would make their life harder?<br />And though he oversimplifies every issue, each chapter concludes with a good bibliography; I could pursue further if I wanted.could pursue further if I wanted.	2002-05-06
US	51126958	RAXCUNYYCL1MM	0192835610	359457484	The Way We Live Now (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Looking to know Trollope...try elsewhere	... Too many plots, characters not given enough space to breathe, and way too much wrap-up yields a less than satisfying experience. But Trollope is a great writer, and when he's on top, as he is often throughout this book, he is untouchable. The Beargarden is astonishing, and has anyone ever written about so many different wastrels and made them all unique? Georgina and her brother Dolly could make a novel themselves. Poor Marie....desperate to be loved. Very touching stuff.<br />But the main story gets lost under so much weight that the overall novel loses its focus and just stunbles to a number of unconvincing conclusions. My favorite book is He Knew He Was Right. The sub-plots there enhance the story, and the characters are more vivid and less simplistic.<br />If you're here after the PBS series, note please...that series is adapted from this novel. There is a lot missing and a lot changed (all to the worse, I would argue). If you are new to Trollope, I would suggest The Palliser series or HKHWR. This is much less worth the time, though still a sparkling read with brilliant flashes.<br />Anti-Semitism? People are too touchy. The characters are certainly narrow-minded bigots, but Trollope himself is clear and potent. The \\"old, fat Jew\\" is among the most noble, most intelligent, and touching characters in Trollope. A gentleman, a sincere man, and one touched by the ugliness of his world but rising majestically above it.	2002-04-16
US	51126958	R3FOVJTBWEVWZD	0553577093	808201906	Dance Real Slow	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Lame, tame, much the same	The misapplied metaphor and the meaningless adjective overwhelm this slight book pretending to be a serious examination of love and fathering. But besides the numerous inappopriate and gratuitous modifiers, there is nothing here. The conflict feels grafted on by an author who recognizes the dullness of his tale, the plot surprises would only surprise the comatose, and the predictability of the whole thing left me weary. A book for those who feel rather than think, for the feelings are all good in this. Nice man, nice boy, nice girlfriend. Nice make-believe story line.<br />Nothing in here approaches real. Nothing is thought out. It is the harmless cotton candy of modern fiction, tastes great (in very limnited quantities) with no content whatsoever.	2002-04-08
US	51126958	R1BOWZR2RTSKJV	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	3	19	22	N	Y	Wildly uneven	I have not read all 58 reviews, but one thing I am not seeing mentioned is the disjointed repetitiveness of this book. It feels like magazine essays spliced together rather crudely into a book. Sentences reappear over and over. People are reintroduced every time they are mentioned. The book needed a severe tightening.<br />I am in no position to judge its scholarship; he is a well read and opinionated man. I found the arguments he traces quite interesting; this was certainly a provocative read. He clearly has several unwieldy axes to grind, and grinds them often. <br />But the book itself suffers from its repetitiveness, its smarminess, its endless wild speculation (\\"Hitler could very well have...\\" \\"So-and-so might very well have thought...\\") and its overall feel of cuteness. <br />Many little things that detract from what could have been a powerful read. What a shame.	2002-02-28
US	51126958	R1YS1KB0U35NNT	0192835408	269435497	He Knew He Was Right (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Trollope thought it a failure, I disagree	In his autobiography, Trollope zips past this story. I couldn't put it down, and read the last 40 moving and exhausting pages aloud to my wife. The Pallisers can get a bit wearying at times, though I love them all. But there is nothing tiresome in here; this book roars with its two intersecting plots and the relatively unique idea of making a sympathetic character, one whom you truly care for and about, a complete, irredeemable fool.<br />Several strong secondary characters, all just a little more complex than they seem, combine with a knock-out plot and vivid main characters, to make this my favorite Trollope novel. The man who will not accept the good around him but prefers to see the bad...? How's that for an eternal theme?	2002-02-05
US	51126958	RLLFJTEENJ3U5	0684852802	730013441	The Hypochondriac's Guide to Life. And Death.	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	See if you can stop laughing....	Funny, funny, funny.  You'll be reading aloud to whoever is nearby.  Guaranteed.  Takes all your worst nightmares and rolls them into one frighteningly delightful book.  A worthy descendent of Three Men In A Boat, the first hypochondriac's guide to life. Buy it and prepare for some lengthy investigations on the Internet...diseases you've never heard of and don't want to imagine, described in lovely detail.  The only thing that could make it better would be illustrations!	2002-01-03
US	51126958	R2HWAEW6877H5G	1929065248	389717045	7 Steps to Better Written Policies and Procedures	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Needs to read his books, not just write them	This is a very useful book. It is also badly written, immensely repetitive, in need of a good editor, and filled with pages with very little on them. The basic idea is solid; I have used this format and like it. But for this much money for such a slim volume, get they typos fixed.<br /><br />Let's take page 29, one of my favorites. As he numbs you with tiresome near-wordplay, he offers this advice for your Editing Checklist:<br /><br />5) Check for clarity: Are your words or sentences ambiguous? Will readers always understand your use of vague pronoun references like it and they and this refer to? Will readers be able to follow your train of thought? Have you used specific rather than vague words? Have you left a reader in doubt as to the meaning of critical words? Have you sued the appropriate vocabulary for the audience?<br /><br />6) Check for brevity or conciseness: Have you used too many words? Are their (sic) redundancies? etc. etc.<br /><br />This is pitiful.<br /><br />Savor that beauty \\"Will readers always understand your use of vague pronoun references like it and they and this refer to?\\" Know what he refers to? How about adding a \\"whom\\" to that sentence, Steve? You get bogged down in that muddy prose so badly even you don't realize you are missing an object. Should have taken your own advice. Read Strunk and White to see how these ideas should be presented.<br /><br />You don't make things clearer by saying them over and over.<br /><br />The sloth of saying \\"brevity or conciseness\\" is amazing. That is neither brief nor concise (hmmm, what's the difference there?)<br /><br />It goes on and on. I was exasperated and annoyed. What a shame; there's a really good magazine article in there.	2001-11-12
US	51126958	R2F7I1ZQDIGE1B	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Agree with the others, almost	This is indeed an epic retelling of the 20th Century, the tale of a man who, 40 years after his retirement, was still the most important person in every toom he was in. The story is powerful and depresing; the smiling DiMaggio hid a venal, petty, avaricious and cowardly man who demanded total, absolute allegaince from underlings and gave his presence in return. A real crumb bum.<br />But the book is fascinating in its development of the myth. I'm still a little hazy as to how Joe managed to become the God. Right guy, right place doesn't seem to be enough. The minor thug of adolescence becomes, withn just a few years, a magisterial person whose aura intimidates all. How did he do this? The reporters helped, but somehow, he managed to create this from inauspicious beginnings.<br />But it is a scintillating (if a bit smarmy at times) read. I'm currently reading He Knew He Was Right by Anthony Trollope--what an amazing parallel. A jealous man who could not appreciate what he had and yet could never let go. The one thing he could not successfully walk away from. A tragically sad tale. And worth reading.	2001-09-10
US	51126958	R73DR2VYU0MRL	0700610383	278311889	A Hole in the World: An American Boyhood Tenth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Mr. Rhodes is a fine writer--but this exceeds writing	Some books excite you; some bore you; some interest you.  This book embraces and engulfs you.  It is impossible to imagine anyone reading it without both raging and exhulting.  A wonderful, beautiful, searing book.  The first paragraph (which I read to my students as an example of 'The Event That Most Changed My Life') will suck you in so far you'll read it with fury, passion, and an intensity that makes both most autobiography seem limp and most writing seem pale.  Richard Rhodes is a fine writer, but this book is more than written.  It is bled.	2001-04-10
US	51126958	R3PUFK5U8CJ0VO	055321392X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Nearly Flawless Novel	... This is  a book.  The characters are alive in a way somehow Maugham seems to  accomplish effortlessly.  Reading this book is easier than watching a film:  the prose glides from the page into your mind, flawlessly, effortlessly and  unforgettably.  Why you might be reading this I cannot imagine--but if you  want to read a superlative book, from the days when the color of your suit  of the gender of your sex partners was unimportant, get this.	2000-07-14
US	51126958	RHBQNPDQMAL02	0156180022	83834721	The Circus in the Attic: and Other Stories	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Haunting, lovely, and memorable	I have been a fan of Warren's writing for many years.  He is known for his novels, yet in many of those the most poignant and moving parts are the inserts, the chapters placed there to highlight the main story.  Cass  Mastern evokes so much, that it is impossible to imagine AKM without it.  Warren achieves much the samee here...while not every story is a  masterpiece, at least 2, The Circus in the Attic, and Blackberry Winter,  will linger long in the memory.  These are stories of a different era,  slow, warm, evocative, suggestive and delightful.	2000-05-08
US	51126958	RSM30ATPLATBX	0151047723	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A life changing read	This novel works on layers that other novels don't even know exist.  Faulkner blew it off, but I suspect few outside the university read Faulkner whereas this book, rich, powerful evocative and beautiful, is what  reading is for.  It changed my life; it made me realize that self is not  &quot;found&quot; but created.  No higher praise can I offer.	1998-12-04
