US	51126761	RPYUUTYEEN35V	0446612111	861999493	The Zero Game	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A superior thriller	Brad Meltzer retains his characteristic ability to write taut, tense novels with breathtaking plot twists.  I won't mention the one featured so prominently in this book, but it's a jaw dropper. <br /> <br />Meltzer's protagonists generally work well - though I think Harris and Viv are more compelling than Matthew.  Seeing Harris from his own vantage point is one of the nicer touches in the book.  Viv emerges as a very distinct and witty character; her and Harris make for one of the odder couples featured in suspense literature.  The dialogue between them is crisp and often funny. <br /> <br />The suspense picks up by the end of the first third of the book and remains unrelenting until the closing pages.  The mine sequence works especially well - I was pleased by Meltzer's willingness to put his characters in an entirely different setting.   <br /> <br />I have mixed thoughts about the villain.  Janos is certainly one of the more chilling characters one will encounter in literature, but his ability to withstand punishment seems unbelievable.  It might have been more plausible if, at some point, he sheds his flesh exterior to reveal a terminator's endoskeleton.  Still, he makes for a memorable villain, and the final showdown is truly epic.  Meltzer characteristically uses one very capable villain in lieu of multiple, less distinct bad guys. <br /> <br />The Zero Game is definitely one of the finer thrillers I've read in the last few years.  If you like Meltzer's other work, you'll enjoy this one.	2005-06-29
US	51126761	R38MED6PNOXCO3	0873385586	878114711	Containing Coexistence: America, Russia, and the "Finnish Solution," 1945-1956 (American Diplomatic History)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great introduction to a fascinating question	Containing Coexistence studies what has to be one of the most interesting and least addressed questions related to the early years of the Cold War: how Finland managed to remain neutral and unoccupied.  Jussi Hanhimaki has written a detailed, cogent account of the interactions of Finland, the United States and the Soviet Union, with particular emphasis to the changing American assessment of Finland's position in the Cold War.    Probably the part of the book most relevant to students of the Cold War is the first section, which explains how Finland became the sole success story of Yalta.  Soviet foreign policy toward Finland is assessed as having been primarily driven by security concerns.      I personally wonder if Hanhimaki gives Finland's leadership too much credit for avoiding absorption into the Soviet bloc.  It would seem that the weakness of Finland's communists, the Soviet choice not to advance into Finland in 1944, and the consolidation of Cold War tensions in Central Europe probably did more to shape Moscow's policy than did President Paasikivi's prudent policy.  Clearly Helsinki played its cards very carefully and with real success, but I wonder to what extent the outcome was already determined by external events.    In any case, this is an excellent book by a capable and eloquent scholar.  It might have benefited from more evidence on the Soviet side, but this is understandly harder to secure.	2005-06-29
US	51126761	R11IU0GAPQIGFB	0061098795	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very solid	Although it doesn't roar to a fast start, I enjoyed Tony Hillerman's The Wailing Wind.  It begins perhaps a bit slowly, but picks up speed by the middle and comes to a moving, strikingly poignant conclusion. <br /> <br />The uneasy relationship between Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee receives ample coverage here; Hillerman is wise to make this a not-entirely-harmonious partnership.  Leaphorn emerges as the star of the book, but, refreshingly, he remains someone capable of making errors. <br /> <br />The book has fewer in the way of plot twists than other Hillerman novels - the perps are relatively easy to guess by the middle.  Still, the question of *why* they do what they do keeps the book compelling to the end. <br /> <br />If possible, I would recommend listening to the audio version of this book.  George Guidall has a real genius for creating distinct character voices.	2005-06-29
US	51126761	R3AM5OT7ZY90X5	039396017X	24436822	The Indians' New World: Catawbas and their Neighbors from European Contact through the Era of Removal	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Informative and captivating	James Merrell's The Indians' New World, winner of the 1990 Bancroft Prize, is one of those rare books that can satisfy both the interest of historians and the general public.  It is written with detail and clarity, telling a story that is fascinating and tragic. <br /> <br />Merrell looks in depth at the Catawba tribe in colonial and post-independence South Carolina.  His work sits broadly within the new stream of books about Native Americans - emphasizing both the injuries they suffered and their numerous adaptations to changed conditions after the arrival of the Europeans.  His account does a fine job of both recognizing the choices made by the Catawbas and emphasizing the magnitude of the many calamities they suffered. <br /> <br />The reader gets a very clear sense of just how violent the world of the Catawbas was - one major challenge they faced was raids by the Iroquois.  Merrell deals subtly with their decision to ally with the colonists - showing both the benefits and costs of this choice.  A poignant final chapter and epilogue charts what befell them after independence - the Catawbas retained their reservation until 1840, making them something of an exception. <br /> <br />When thinking about the Native American experience, most Americans think primarily of the tribes of the west.  Merrell's book does much to show us the experiences of Indians in the east of the country.  As a meticulously researched, well written account, it has a lot to recommend it.  Both experts and newcomers to Native American history will deeply enjoy this book.	2005-02-26
US	51126761	R2JMJF16FTLX6K	0061057134	893664393	Titan (NASA Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Quite good!	There's something very rewarding about Titan.  It's more measured in pace than most books I've read, but it's written with a careful attention to detail, a broad (and sometimes frightening) view of the future, and real originality.  This is one to take your time with and enjoy. <br /> <br />Titan features an ensemble cast of characters - all of which have flaws.  It doesn't dwell on them individually for too long (which some reviewers here fault it for).  But for the story it's trying to tell, breadth should trump depth.  I enjoyed the range of individuals present; their combined observations give the story a lot more detail and make it more complete. <br /> <br />Some readers dislike the course that the world takes in this near-future book.  Frankly, I'm chilled by Baxter's apparent prescience.  Of course the incident with the Columbia at the beginning of the book is pretty unsettling - I'm sure Baxter wishes he'd written the scene with a different shuttle.  But the course America takes over the novel is also chilling, and not too far from our current trajectory.  We may not have an administration that has eschewed space exploration, but the Maclachlan character has a few other similarities with the present president that should give us pause. <br /> <br />The details of the mission to Titan are fascinating, even if occasionally disgusting.  Baxter really did his homework on the effects of prolonged space travel on human physiology - the book is really remarkable in that regard.   <br /> <br />The drama in this book takes a little while to build, but I was hooked by its portrayal of a space program in deep malaise, and by the desperate struggle of the astronauts, once sent into space.  Titan builds to a tremendous conclusion - one worth waiting for.  Be patient with this book - you will not regret it.	2004-11-07
US	51126761	RWCZ2UJUPCXU8	0312135033	850459198	Great Catherine: The Life of Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia	Books	2	31	35	N	N	It's all about Catherine!	I read Great Catherine as an informal preparation for a class on Russian history.  Having finished it, I can't recommend it for anyone interested in her era.    The book does have some strengths.  Erickson writes well.  She has an abundance of empathy with her subject (which is a strength in a biography but only up to a point).  The book does give you a basic timeline of Catherine's life, and may be useful in that regard.    However, the focus of Great Catherine is quite unsatisfactory.  The book's central project seems to be redeeming Catherine's reputation from those who claim she was a depraved nymphomaniac.  While we've all heard the story involving the horse, I don't think that this is an issue that really has broad historical meaning.    Nonetheless, Great Catherine mires itself in a tiresome recollection of each of Catherine's affairs.  Erickson's sympathy for Catherine overrides any inclination she might have had to ask serious and critical questions about how this aspect of Catherine's life may have affected her rule.  Whatever she did in the bedchamber, Catherine chose to act in a way that gathered attention and started rumors, making herself the object of ridicule and scorn. The alibi that she was seeking love only holds for her first few flings.  The pattern that Erickson sketches is that of someone in the grips of pathological behavior.    Tellingly, Erickson seems to embrace Catherine's explanations for each breakup - which invariably fault the male partner and not the love-starved monarch.  Whether or not she was a nymphomaniac, Catherine's behavior was self-destructive.  A more inquisitive biography would steer past melodramatic commentary about the monarch's poor impoverished heart and ask how the monarch's personal life impacted her statecraft.    This is a book that is overly obsessed with appearances.  Catherine's radiant appearance and demeanor is discussed incessantly.  After a while, I was willing to take it on faith that, yes, she was very charming and also happened to look good.  Erickson seemingly cannot mention people without mentioning their physical features.  The reader is repeatedly reminded how ugly Peter III's mistress was.  A similar level of detail is lavished on pageantry, with one dinner or ball only more stunning than its predecessor.  Again, the reader - starved of more substantive details - is willing to accept that, yes, the Russian court liked luxurious living.    Very little of the book is devoted to discussions of Catherine's rule as empress and none of that is at all analytical or insightful.  As elsewhere, Erickson offers a basic defense of her protagonist.  Major acts of policy are not dealt with in detail.  Catherine's role in the destruction of the Polish state is covered in a few sentences that blandly note that this was commonly approved of at the time.  Her policies toward the conquered Poles are not discussed.  Readers will have to turn elsewhere to learn of the nearly 20,000 Polish civilians her soldiers slaughtered after capturing Warsaw in 1794; the impact of Catherine's choices on their lives clearly interested Erickson much less than the monarch's romantic resume.      Similarly, the book fails to examine her two wars with the Ottomans in satisfying detail.  What glimpses we do get of the wartime Catherine make her seem quite jingoistic and aggressive.  How does this reconcile with the tender-hearted reader of philosophy portrayed elsewhere in the book?  Moreover, the book never asks hard questions about her war policies - which are particularly important because the second war with the Ottomans dragged on far longer than Catherine would have liked, being complicated by a simultaneous war with Sweden.  We do get the detail that bad news from the front impelled Catherine to retreat and read Plutarch in solitude.  What a committed, capable monarch!    Another biographer might have at least dealt with Catherine's pivotal decision to confine Jews to the Pale of Settlement -a critical act of policy that set the stage for the pogroms of the following century.  Her policy toward minorities is never discussed.    The book's overall examination of Catherine's policies is quite laudatory.  This is odd, because it seemed that her efforts to reform the state were constantly frustrated by the nobles and by peasant rebellions.  Why nobles and peasants opposed her so much is a question left unanswered.  Where Catherine fails, Erickson attributes the failure to all other parties; never to the ambitious empress.  If something went wrong, it could only have been the fault of backward peasantry or corrupt nobles.  The long term impact of her policies is unexamined.    In sum, I think this is a shallow, unsatisfactory biography.  It focuses on Catherine's personality at the expense of understanding her actions.  At its heart is an unproductive infatuation with its subject that leads the author to skirt around serious questions in favor of endless and repetitive description.  I am left convinced that Catherine was indeed a bright, cheery, intelligent woman, but it is left to other authors to determine her real historical significance.  Catherine may have been great, but this biography certainly is not.	2004-08-05
US	51126761	R2JGB4IUVOM70L	1400049555	326988189	Like No Other Time: The 107th Congress and the Two Years That Changed America Forever	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Thoughtful and insightful	Tom Daschle's memoir of the 107th Congress should ultimately be recognized as one of the best first person accounts of the critical two years following the 2000 election.  Like No Other Time is an exceptionally good senatorial memoir.  Daschle is a keen observer of people and of politics.  Thus, his memoir is a candid and revealing look at the people and events that shaped America during two transformative years.<br />Daschle offers some sharp assessments along the way.  His nuanced and careful impressions of President Bush are very persuasive, contradicting both the idealized portrait of the right and the left's ridiculous notion of the President as an idiot.  Daschle is no supporter of Bush, but is careful to note his strengths.  <br />Also of interest are the dynamics between senators as described here.  Daschle's sometimes-cooperative, sometimes-conflictual relations with Trent Lott are described amply.  One gets a sense of just how much the Senate relies on such relations (I regretted that the book was published too early to record his impressions of Bill Frist and certainly too early to record Frist's tacky visit to South Dakota to support John Thune against Daschle).  Also explored in fascinating detail is the successful campaign to bring James Jeffords out of the GOP.<br />Daschle writes with frustration about the decline of civility in the Senate and Congress as a whole - an early section details the change in tone wrought by Newt Gingrich.  This trend has since been accelerated by the machinations of the White House - one section details just how much Bush committed himself to the Thune-Johnson race in South Dakota.  With evident pain, Daschle also discusses how the emotional farewell service to Paul Wellstone inadvertently became a more partisan rally (his balanced account of the event is a nice corrective to polemical accounts from either side)<br />Like other reviewers, I wish Daschle had commented about more topics.  He declines to discuss the outcomeof the Thune-Johnson race, but does imply that Bush's inattention to economic relief for South Dakota was a strong factor.  Nor does the later victory of Mary Landrieu in Louisiana receive coverage.  But his discussion of the Democratic Party's debate, in the fall of 2002, over going to war in Iraq is priceless.  Daschle aptly conveys the slanderous attacks made against the party over Iraq and the Homeland Security bill.  Though Daschle is clearly in a position of partisan authority, he makes a notable effort to keep his tone balanced and restrained.  <br />I was really impressed by this book and by its author.  Whatever the outcome of his race this year - and I'd very much like to see Daschle reelected for the sake of South Dakota and this country - I hope that this is not the last book he writes about American politics.  This is a book worth buying and reading for the insights it offers about American politics and the current tumultuous era.	2004-06-29
US	51126761	R2UHN00W0TD1G5	0449131173	393082813	The Council of Ten	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A quality Land novel	I've read a fair amount of Jon Land.  I'd agree with another reviewer here that this isn't his absolute best work, but The Council of Ten is another solid work of suspense.<br />Land's established, distinct style is amply displayed in this late-Cold War era work.  Seeking to uncover why his grandmother was murdered, Drew Jordan discovers that she had been recruited to smuggle cocaine into the United States.  But drug smuggling appears to be only the tip of the iceberg as he begins to uncover a conspiracy against the United States.  His efforts dovetail with those of an Israeli agent and a retired American agent.<br />Drew Jordan makes a nicely compelling protagonist, as does Elliana Hirsch.  Peter Wayman's weariness was well-depicted, but Land could have done more to give us a sense of his history (he does a better job of depicting Jared Kimberlain's backstory in The Eighth Trumpet).  Also, more could have been done with the character nicknamed &quot;Jabba&quot;.  At around 330 pages, this is notably shorter than other Land books, and thus lacks some of the fireworks of its peers.<br />Nonetheless, this is vintage Land.  There is an abundance of action - much of it wildly creative.  Look for one memorable sequence on a Prague subway car.  There are rapid plot twists.  And, as always, at the root of the action is a mysterious plot involving a new and terrifying weapon.  You got to hand it to Land - he doesn't fall back on the tired old standby of a stolen nuclear weapon.  He's always creative enough to invent his own, usually scarier, weapon.  <br />One small aside: the nickname of one of the villains in this book is, curiously, &quot;The White Snake&quot; - Land was apparently not familiar with 80s hair bands at time of publication.	2004-06-08
US	51126761	R3DR8VKOYYGBVY	193240726X	616851051	Burning Down My Masters' House: My Life at the New York Times	Books	1	124	131	N	N	If you must read it, borrow it from the library	In America, convicted criminals are not legally allowed to profit from their crimes.  I see no compelling reason why a serial liar like Jayson Blair should somehow be an exception to this rule.  Folks, this country has a terrific network of public libraries that would be happy to lend you this book free of charge or, if it is checked out, reserve it in your name.  In the meantime, you can read something more rewarding like \\"Fast Food Nation\\" or \\"The Da Vinci Code.\\"<br /><br />But I digress.  Let me tell you why reading this book should be a low priority.  Jayson Blair simply is not a credible author.  He weaves a few too many fantastic tales here as well as more than a few self-serving ones.  The clearest and most credible information presented in the book merely serves to indict him further for being deeply ungrateful.<br /><br />He never seems to realize that he was presented with a once-in-a-lifetime chance by the New York Times - one which plenty of journalists I know would have given their arm for - one which he blew to high heaven.  As to why he blew this so badly, he presents a multiplicity of uncompelling reasons.  He attempts to claim that his behavior was far from atypical at the Times but only manages to cite the case of Rick Bragg, whose failure to credit a stringer came out a few weeks after Blair's own pattern was reported.  Jayson Blair may be incapable of realizing this - and he certainly does not in his book - but few newspapers would have allowed him a future after Metro Editor Jon Landman's famous memo (to the effect that Blair needed to stop \\"writing for the Times.  Right now.\\")  For whatever reason - and Blair doesn't shed any real light on it - the Times was determined to see no evil where he was concerned.  Not only did it fail to act, but in the crucial subsequent year it gave him choice reporting roles in the Washington sniper case and domestic reporting on the Iraq War.  This seems a lot less like the racism that Blair purports to have seen than a very ill-starred favoritism.  Blair - again - can't recognize this.  Where editor Gerald Boyd is concerned, and Boyd was most responsible for tabling Landman's memo and keeping Blair around the paper for that last crucial year, Blair can only manage to be scornful.<br /><br />Like Stephen Glass' own attempt at writing, Burning Down My Master's House is an embarrassing and sloppy mess of attempts at self-justification (including, as the book's title would indicate, a deeply confused effort to play the race card), half-baked vendettas against old colleagues, and claims that - in light of Blair's known career of deceit - simply aren't credible.  If you must read it - if you derive some pleasure from Blair's pathetic tale of self-pity - I guarantee you this: you won't want to read it twice.  Make it a library book - you won't regret it.-starred favoritism.  Blair - again - can't recognize this.  Where editor Gerald Boyd is concerned, and Boyd was most responsible for tabling Landman's memo and keeping Blair around the paper for that last crucial year, Blair can only manage to be scornful.      Like Stephen Glass' own attempt at writing, Burning Down My Master's House is an embarrassing and sloppy mess of attempts at self-justification (including, as the book's title would indicate, a deeply confused effort to play the race card), half-baked vendettas against old colleagues, and claims that - in light of Blair's known career of deceit - simply aren't credible.  If you must read it - if you derive some pleasure from Blair's pathetic tale of self-pity - I guarantee you this: you won't want to read it twice.  Make it a library book - you won't regret it.	2004-03-18
US	51126761	R2LX9O3UJCJMYX	0399131515	115140351	Nobody Lives Forever (James Bond Master Spy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quality Bond	This is one of the better John Gardner Bond novels.  It has a novel plot: Bond not on assignment, but instead the target of a global manhunt.  It features some memorable and vicious villains, and a nice amount of plot twists.<br />Gardner's writing is taut, and we're reminded here that the Bond of the novels may be as suave as the Bond of film, but is considerably more ruthless.  He repeats Ian Fleming's classic description of Bond's features as containing a hint of cruelty.  Bond's ordeal in this book brings the trait more fully out of him than in other novels.  <br />The first half of the book is particularly good in establishing tension.  There are, perhaps, a few plot contrivances, but nothing especially blatant.   I've read most of Gardner's Bond novels and would rate this very highly among them.	2004-02-02
US	51126761	R3I4BNF3VQKM8K	0822934140	291932634	Timothy Pickering and the American Republic	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thorough, but not without flaws	By Gerard Clarfield's account, he first took an interest in Timothy Pickering because he thought that his subject may have been unfairly maligned by history.  A close examination of Pickering's life convinced him that his predecessors were right to scorn Pickering.<br />Clarfield has written a thorough and well-researched biography of Pickering as an archetypal \\"man on the make\\" in colonial and Revolutionary America.  His book is very well researched and well written.  It is an invaluable resource for those of us interested in Pickering.<br />However, Clarfield may have gone too far in his repudiation of Pickering.  As Garry Wills wrote in \\"Negro President\\" it is doubtful that one would find Pickering personally likeable.  Still, there is more to an individual than his personality.  Clarfield's indictment of Pickering rests largely on his personal traits: a tendency toward paranoia, unflinching self-righteousness, and a great capacity for anger.  However, in light of this portrayal, it's hard to see how Pickering ever got anywhere or accomplished anything.<br />Garry Wills has found that Pickering was a dedicated family man.  From Pickering's own record, it is clear that he was a respected member of the Federalist Party, with genuine and lasting friendships.  His career in public service was quite long.  He was hardly the failure that Clarfield seems to think he was.  Clarfield seems loathe to give Pickering any credit at all.<br />Other aspects of Pickering's career - those that make him more interesting to us - receive short shrift.  Clarfield does detail Pickering's efforts to protect the rights of Native Americans, but does not explore his anti-slavery sentiment or his support of the freed slaves of St. Domingue (Haiti).  These topics are delved into more thorougly by Wills.  <br />I would recommend reading this book and Clarfield's other book on Pickering.  Also, I would recommend reading \\"Negro President\\" by Wills, which gives Pickering a more sympathetic treatment.	2004-01-31
US	51126761	R3ITJX5L9LE15E	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quite good	Pompeii shows Robert Harris at the top of his form.  As he's done before in Fatherland and Archangel, he meticulously creates a world.  In fact, this novel represents his most ambitious attempt to do so.  Pompeii chronicles the efforts of Marcus Attlius to uncover why the crucial aqueduct that serves the nine towns around the Bay of Naples has failed.  To do so he must contend with both human malice and increasingly violent acts of nature.<br />Most readers will know what is going to happen in this book (though at least one here seems to have thought that the events in the book were occurring in Greece, so I guess you never know).  What is remarkable about this book is that our foreknowledge of the critical event in it does not lessen its dramatic tension in the slightest.<br />Why is that so?  Pompeii has nicely drawn characters, from the young and occasionally impetuous Attlius, to the historically based Pliny, the venal Ampliatus, and an impressive host of minor characters that are encountered.  The world of first century Rome is restored confidently.  What I found refreshing was that the book worked comfortably within its present; it did not feel the compulsion to work constantly at adding backstory, nor was that necessary.  This book will not tell you who Julius Caesar or Augustus were, and you don't need to know it to enjoy it fully.  What it does offer is a wonderfully nuanced and lively portrait of Roman life, making it as valuable in some ways as works of history.  I, for one, would be very happy if Harris wrote another Roman novel.	2004-01-16
US	51126761	R1J0KBG6LIO1SZ	0061012513	317368412	Storming Heaven	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good fun!	This is an uncommonly good book in the suspense genre.  It features a well-structured plot, an interesting concept and good characterization.<br />The book begins with the chilling kidnapping of a teenage girl.  The lead investigator, Mark Beamon comes to believe that the Church of the Evolution, a mysterious and powerful cult, is behind the crime, just as the cult begins targeting him.<br />In this, his second novel, Kyle Mills brings back the quirky but brilliant FBI agent Mark Beamon.  Beamon is one of the better protagonists you'll find in the suspense genre, unlike the bland boring characters of a Tom Clancy novel.  He's uncommonly funny, and a very good agent but also has flaws that make him more believable.  Beamon is joined here by a great supporting cast which includes a hapless but endearing refugee from the cult, and an aging and insufferable surveillance specialist.<br />The theme of religious cults used here is fairly interesting.  Mills does seem to be basing the Church on some composite of real-life religious sects.  It's actually a very novel conception of an updated, more flexible Christianity - upon reading it, I was surprised that this wasn't a real cult.  Or maybe it is . . .<br />In any event, the book picks up almost immediately and will keep your attention riveted until the end.  What more would you want in a thriller?	2003-11-17
US	51126761	R2HGIDI85RICRG	0140073868	215635453	The Thrill Of The Grass (Penguin Short Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Classic baseball fiction, especially for Cub fans	W. P. Kinsella writes with poignance and wit, capturing both the humor and the occasional tragedy of the game.  This collection displays some of his best work.  <br />My alltime favorite among this collection is \\"The Last Pennant Before Armageddon.\\"  In the wake of the Cubs' collapse this fall, a work like this has real prescience and is somehow reassuring that there was a higher purpose behind it all.  <br />Still, there are other strong stories in the mix.  In one, the narrator is offered the chance to trade places with the recently-killed Yankees catcher Thurman Munson.  Another, more whimsical story takes you inside the clubhouse of the 1951 Giants, as a surprisingly literate team debates whether The Greaty Gatsby is an allegory.<br />For me, \\"The Last Pennant Before Armageddon\\" is reason enough to buy this book.  In the wake of the 2003 NLCS, I feel a dire need to read it . . . repeatedly.	2003-10-17
US	51126761	R39K5ZTWIVNDOL	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	1	30	67	N	N	Preaching to the sheep	If the revelation of the extent of the killing fields in Cambodia (more on this later), or the mass graves concealed in Serbia didn't dissuade Noam Chomsky from continuing his bizarre career of spinning conspiracy theories and whitewashing murderous ideologies, it is definitely too much to hope for that the deaths of 3,000 people in a well-orchestrated murderous attack might provoke some thought in his mind, while sitting in his decidedly non-plebeian mansion.  No such luck.  <br />If anything, this book illustrates just how deeply old Noam has withdrawn from the world.  There is little in it that one could not find in his prior works, and I got tired of reading his discussions with fawning interviewers who throw him softballs.  Of course, he writes of Afghanistan as someone who has never seen it (I'd lay money on that) and certainly as someone indifferent to the damage wrought by the Taliban on that country.  The Chomskyite Left doesn't really care about human suffering in the vast majority of instances when it does not flow from Western action - he may occasionally cite the failure to intervene in Rwanda as proof of Western or American malevolence, but (diehard followers pay attention) does anyone think that he would have supported an intervention there? <br />Once again Chomsky trots out his tired characterization of America as a terrorist state.  But he doesn't really look at events in question besides viewing them casually as items on a list.  Context is important.  Why?  See what one author has to say about this, when examining the crimes of Communist rebels in South Vietnam:<br />&quot;I don't accept the view that we can just condemn the NLF terror, period, because it was so horrible. I think we really have to ask questions of comparative costs, ugly as that may sound. And if we are going to take a moral position on this-and I think we should-we have to ask both what the consequences were of using terror and not using terror.&quot;<br />The author?  A younger, less guarded Noam Chomsky.  Apparently terror is OK if inflicted in the name of &quot;the people&quot;.  But going in and rooting out a terrorist-sponsored regime in Afghanistan is inexcusable.<br />He's done this sort of thing before.  One chapter of his career that is deeply embarrassing to his acolytes occurred when he savagely attacked emerging reports of genocide in Cambodia.  When refugees published accounts of Khmer Rouge atrocities, he attacked those accounts, while praising pro-Khmer Rouge works by Western Marxists (a Google search on Khmer Rouge and Chomsky will  reveal more information).  Some Westerners admitted later that they were wrong about the Khmer Rouge; Chomsky never has, though his praise of them was written guardedly, as if in anticipation of future denials.<br />Readers looking to learn about the world will find this book tiresome and disappointing.  But if you care more about the Cult of Noam than the actual world his writings distort, don't let me stop you from buying this book and helping him pay the mortgage on his mansion.  Go ahead, once you have it, you can read it forwards and backwards and sideways and even upside-down.  It will be very enlightening . . . because you want it to be!	2003-10-12
US	51126761	R3QMFHSSBI7B1U	0380708388	602504705	Warbirds	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A leader in the genre	The Warbirds, which I recently revisited, holds up pretty well over time.  Parts of it are obviously dated - the use of F-4s in a frontline combat role, and of course the Soviet Union and the proximity of the events in the book to the Iran-Iraq war.  But, if you're reading this review, these probably aren't things to worry about.<br />The Warbirds is at its best as the story of a combat unit in the post-Vietnam military struggling to prepare for war, as a portrait of a unit under wartime conditions, and as a study of leadership.  As a whole, it remains an excellent novel.<br />The novel begins with the 45th Air Wing posted to Egypt, where the first segment of the book begins.  As storm clouds gather in the Persian Gulf, and following a clash with Libyan plans, the unit is reposted to RAF Stonewood for training purposes, under its talented new leader &quot;Muddy&quot; Waters.  The last third of the book covers its posting to the Persian Gulf to oppose an Iranian campaign to overrun the oilfields.  <br />Richard Herman has a real talent in populating his novels with distinctive and memorable characters.  The Warbirds establishes the core group of the early Herman novels, in particular: Anthony &quot;Muddy&quot; Waters, Jack Locke, James &quot;Thunder&quot; Bryant, Doc Landis, Rupert Stansell and Ambler Furry.  Herman defines his characters by their actions.   The resulting is a set of interesting and likable individuals.   <br />Perhaps by virtue of his own Air Force experience, Herman's depiction of the service is frank.  Particular emphasis is paid to the necessity of adaptation under training and combat conditions.  Bureaucracy takes its toll on the characters, and the hero, Muddy Waters, is forced to repeatedly defend both his men and his command from rivals in the Air Force.<br />The last third of the book contains some very well rendered depictions of combat.  The 45th is steadily attritted by combat against an Iranian army, and, in the final section of the book, forced to fight for its life against an amphibious attack.  The losses it suffers are made vivid by the author's willingness to sacrifice likable characters (something lacking in other genre authors).  <br />Good characterization, tense action and (amateur editorial review above to the contrary) solid plotting make The Warbirds an early classic of the military genre and a great first novel for Richard Herman.  By all means read this and then Force of Eagles, which is its immediate sequel.	2003-07-07
US	51126761	R21418WB53ZQL	0812535189	332284535	The Voices of Heaven	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting and very grounded	I was mostly satisfied by The Voices of Heaven.  As science fiction novels go, it was highly accessible.  In fact, its central story and themes could have fit easily within other genres, though the futuristic element is rendered easily and plausibly.<br />The story is basically one that could easily be adapted into a novel about a European colonist in the Americas - with Native Americans being substituted for the alien Leps.  <br />Pohl writes masterfully within the voice of his intelligent but often clueless narrator.  The author has a real gift for rendering characters - even fairly unsympathetic ones - as real tangible human beings.  The character of Tscharka is particularly well-done - we do get a sense of his positive attributes, though they are not frequently displayed.<br />At its core, this is a novel about what people need in life, about religion, and about dislocation.  As science fiction novels go, it is readily concrete and not at all disorienting or confusing.  The storyline is consistently engaging, but not always tense.<br />I agree about the audio narration of this book - Johnny Heller does a fine job as the narrator.	2003-07-04
US	51126761	R36GG0JBJ6YJ5N	0441054900	453822303	Berserker	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Quite excellent	Berserker is a true classic.  The theme of humanity fighting machines has been used many different times: in the fiction of Gregory Benford and Greg Bear; in television shows like Star Trek; and in movies like the Matrix and the Terminator.  It is refreshing to read one of the earliest versions of this story because Saberhagen's writing - which was doubtlessly an inspiration to others pursuing similar stories - remains distinct and his stories unique.<br />The structure of this Berserker book is a bit loose - it has perhaps 10 stories bracketed by the narration of an alien historian (whose introduction to the book is one of its finest parts).  This narration has an intentionally Homeric effect - Saberhagen clearly had Greek epics in mind.  Some of his characters recall figures in Greek mythology: the stoic Johann Karlsen, the vengeful Hemphill, and the vain Felipe Nogara.<br />The stories themselves are very well-crafted.  Saberhagen applies an admirable minimalism when writing, though at times he will indulge in descriptive prose (most notably in the excellent final story).  Humanity is depicted with both its flaws and virtues, as the struggle against the Berserkers brings out the best and worst in us.<br />Other reviewers disliked the loose structure - I rather liked it.  Novels can often tightly confine their worlds and limit them.  These somewhat connected stories hint at a much larger and grander story arc with all manners of other untold stories.<br />Finally, if you stumble on the audio edition of this, I would strongly recommend it.  The narrator who handles the Campan historian is excellent; the second narrators rendition of the voices of Berserkers is truly chilling.	2003-06-25
US	51126761	RR6PZLPEQF8NQ	0553579983	153158875	And Then You Die	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Kaldak, take me away!	I was not able to finish And Then You Die.  I had high, or at least, optimistic hopes for this book.  It begins promisingly enough with the Bess character and her sister stumbling upon the scene of an mysterious mass epidemic in a small Mexican village.  The level of suspense remained high when Bess was captured by a seemingly malevolent Mexican colonel, and aided in her escape by a brutal killer.<br />The book gets steadily less interesting as Bess bonds with her protector.  Part of the problem is that Bess is essentially an idiot with kneejerk impulses.  Any sympathy I had for her was undermined by her sequence of stupid decisions and comments.  In a rather implausible series of events, she effectively makes herself the head of the CIA, able to order everyone around her.  <br />I quit the book during an appallingly bad sex scene between Bess and her protector.  I just couldn't take it anymore.	2003-06-04
US	51126761	RSJM6G20KYUZU	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very strong, but not quite Fatherland	I was very eager to read Archangel, both on the strength of its premise and on the basis of Harris' prior work. His earlier novel Fatherland is a true classic that manages to be both suspenseful, dramatic and intellectually provocative.<br /><br />Archangel is a strong work of fiction, but it is not on the same level as Fatherland. Still it is worth recommending in its own right.<br /><br />Where Archangel succeeds is in atmosphere. There is something profoundly and distinctly haunting about Stalin's legacy, and Harris manages to evoke the ghost of the \\"man of steel\\" quite well. We are treated to vivid depictions of Moscow and the forested Russian North. Harris does pose a number of troubling points about Russia and Stalin's legacy - what does it mean that a considerable fraction of the Russian public celebrate the life of this monster?<br /><br />Archangel follows the adventures of a struggling British academic, Fluke Kelso, as he pursues Stalin's lost journal. The plot has not nearly as many twists as Fatherland, and the degree of suspense is somewhat less. The tone is, on the whole, far more mysterious. Noone should pick this up expecting a work with a lot of violent action.<br /><br />I'm not certain how I come down about the book's ending. It seems to fit the novel, and yet I was somehow expecting a bit more.  Nonetheless Archangel is a very good novel with a strong sense of history and setting, well worth your time.	2003-01-09
US	51126761	RAJ9EZBMHI1RO	0061000299	848405681	Listening Woman (Joe Leaphorn Novels)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Very solid work	There are few things as satisfying in the modern mystery novel as looking into the methodical mind of Detective Joe Leaphorn.  While many people read Tony Hillerman for his insights into Navajo culture, I most enjoy his depiction of the always thoughtful Leaphorn.<br />In Listening Woman, Leaphorn faces his usual intertangled mess of events: being nearly run over by a maniac, the theft of a helicopter, and two unsolved deaths in a remote corner of the reservation.  The joy of this book is its window into Leaphorn's mind as he tries to make sense of seemingly random events.<br />Hillerman's myteries are enjoyable because he keeps the details in front of the reader.  His detectives express bafflement, hold erroneous assumptions, and are very much prone to mistaken judgement.  As such, they are real and believable.<br />Listening Woman features a remarkable and intense closing sequence, which I have no intention of ruining.  This is one of Hillerman's best novels and I heartily recommend it.	2002-11-22
US	51126761	R359X6FIX3ZHL7	0671038850	757593145	A Stitch in Time (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine #27)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A delicious portrayal of Garak	I'm not a heavy consumer of Star Trek fiction, but I have to take my hat off to Andrew J. Robinson's excellent novel.  I was always a big fan of Deep Space Nine, in which Garak was the most compelling character.<br />Andrew Robinson, excellent actor that he is, undoubtedly invested much time in pondering the background and motivations of Garak.  Here it pays off, and we have a rich introduction to the life of our favorite Cardassian tailor.<br />One of the most delightful things about the book is the way that it thoroughly explains the relationships that Garak had with other Cardassians on the show (which were usually hostile).  Robinson effortlessly weaves (this is definitely the right verb here) each such interaction into his story.<br />The picture that emerges is by no means plain or simple.  Garak is at once capable of great decency and chilling indifference.  He is neither a monster nor a heroic figure - and it is informative to see how often he is manipulated by those more ruthless than he.  <br />Most of the book is retrospective, although there are fascinating passages that cover the immediate aftermath of the final episodes of Deep Space Nine.  I for one would greatly welcome another contribution by Robinson charting further into the future of this always-engaging character.	2002-10-13
US	51126761	RK1CFPZDKTCT6	0962145130	465636271	A Virginian in Yankeeland	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An instant classic!	Have you ever wondered if George Washington ever had children? If those children might be walking around amongst us? If those same children might be victims of a diabolical plot to deprive them of their rightful inheritance?    Neither had I until I stumbled onto a gratis copy of Benjamin E. Dean's classic tome \\"A Virginian in Yankeeland.\\" This is THE indispensable work for those of us who have wondered about the issue of our greatest Founding Father's issue.    Benjamin Dean is apparently a man wealthy enough to self-publish his own account of being \\"George Washington VI\\". Bully for him, I say. The world needs more of this sort of thing. In any event, Benjamin Dean stumbled upon this revelation sometime in the 1940s while he was in Kentucky. A bunch of GIs, off to fight the Nazis, observed that he had a stunning resemblance to George Washington (Just like the grocery clerk I saw the other day who thought I resembled James K. Polk).    By far the best section of this immense book is the introduction. The rest of the book, as far as I can tell, is full of rich yarns about the author's childhood in upstate New York. But the introduction lays bare the heart of the matter, including the author's (or, as he likes to write, \\"your George Washington VI\\" or \\"your Virginian\\") fight to reveal the truth.     He first made his point sometime during the 60s when he called a live radio show to declare his ancestry. After that, in his words, \\"seven years of media silence\\" followed. His next big break was an appearance on a \\"closed-circuit\\" TV show sometime in the 1970s. Finally he got the attention of the powerful interests who connive to deprive the heirs of Washington of what is rightfully theirs. A very catty article was written about him. Nothing if not determined, Benjamin Dean has chosen to take the high road in answering this scurrilous attack, writing and publishing a multivolume epic.    And you have to hand it to him. I can't say I fully read this book, but anyone interested in the history of upstate New York in the early 20th century, or the progeny of George Washington will undoubtedly find this books and its sequels riveting. May Benjamin Dean write and publish many more books on these themes!	2002-10-11
US	51126761	R112PH3MCQ921I	0380016966	881482982	Search for Joseph Tully	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A highly original, well executed thriller	Joseph Hallahan has a flair for the unconventional in his writing.  In The Search for Joseph Tully he manages to incorporate supernatural and genealogical themes into a very original suspense novel.<br />The Search for Joseph Tully has a nice sense of its own pacing.  Hallahan carefully establishes a bleak mood early in the book, which he skillfully intensifies.  The plot has two parallel threads: the genealogical research of a young Englishman into the family of one Joseph Tully; and the deepening feeling of foreboding experienced by a resident of an abandoned Brooklyn apartment building.  The two threads are skillfully interwoven for an ending which is not so much surprising as stunning (I'm trying to keep the spoilers to a minimum here).<br />Hallahan is especially talented in drawing the supporting characters of the novel.  The genealogical details manage to be compelling in their own right.  The Brooklyn thread drags a little more, but on the whole this is a nicely calibrated work of suspense.  It's truly a shame that Hallahan hasn't published more.	2002-09-10
US	51126761	R2JOCAQQ4SN5G4	0453007740	627065254	The Iliad (Classics on Cassette)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A wonderful epic, an imperfect recording	The Iliad puts all other war stories to shame; it is a work of great depth, complexity and nuance that has survived 3000 years and will undoubtedly last another 3000.<br />But, having completed the Penguin audio edition, I cannot give a wholly positive review.<br />First, I'll stress the strengths of this audio edition:<br />- Robert Fagles' translation is wonderful - both beautiful and consistent in tone.<br />- Bernard Knox has written another excellent essay, which accompanies the audio edition.<br />- The voice of Derek Jacobi is just right for this edition.  Jacobi has tremendous range and feeling in his inflections, he is alternately arrogant as Agamemnon, impetuous as Diomedes, and tender as Helen.  He was the ideal choice for this edition.<br />However . . .<br />This is an abridged work.  By now you've noticed this fact, as did I when I purchased it.  But perhaps, like myself, you don't realize: it's ABRIDGED.  Which is to say that chunks of the text are missing, and not from any one place in the poem.<br />I found that I loved the poem so much that these gaps were fairly agonizing.  They are bridged, not by Jacobi, but - oddly - by Maria Tucci.  Tucci's sparse and occasionally inane summaries are a poor substitue for Homer.  I found myself seething at the gaps, waiting for Jacobi to take over.  (Penguin's audio edition of the Odyssey is much better in this regard - featuring the uninterrupted unabridged narration of Ian McKellen.)<br />So, if you're thinking of getting this audio edition, ask yourself how much you would mind the abridgement.  If you think the absence of entire books of classic Homeric text might detract from the experience, it's probably a good idea to look at an unabridged audio edition, such as the one narrated by George Guidall.  I'll probably keep mine, since there's much to like about it; but if I had to choose again I would go with an unabridged version.	2002-08-28
US	51126761	R2453WUVDY939T	0804106665	427376619	Paris 2005	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A solid, underrated thriller	Paris 2005 manages to do several things very well.  It was written long enough ago that its depiction of the future of computers seems antiquated and not all that visionary.  Still, it is an absorbing work of suspense.<br />Where Paris 2005 succeeds is in depicting the byzantine world of an occupied France, where American computer programmer Robert Landry is struggling to use his mastery of the state's central computer to undermine the Communist regime.  His efforts are aided by allies he cannot fully trust, and by a lethal internal rivalry within the government.<br />This is primarily a work of suspense.  Compared to the novels of Craig Thomas, for example, there is very little in the way of violence or chases.  Still this is a well-crafted novel with several well-drawn very memorable characters.  The intricate plot twists nicely along the way as well.  <br />The title of the book is unfortunate, but if you're reading this review you're probably not someone who stopped reading Cold War spy fiction after the end of the Cold War.  Have a look at this one.	2002-07-13
US	51126761	RBRWH6NLIANOL	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Overall, a thoughtful and passionate book	James Carroll seems, if anything to pull punches in his account of the troubling history of the Church and anti-Semitism.  Reading this book and the many reviews of it, I did not feel that it sprung from a kneejerk rejection of his father's church, but through a dedicated, impassioned attempt to come to terms with the legacy of Catholicism in its entirety.<br />It seemed to me that his portrayal of some Catholic figures was sympathetic: Paul and Augustine emerge fairly well under the circumstances.  Carroll's treatment of the infamous Pius XII seems abbreviated, not drawing fully from John Cornwell's \\"Hitler's Pope\\" - which his citations otherwise endorse.  His answer to the central question of the Church's role in causing the Holocaust belongs to the sensible middle (unlike a recent rash article by Daniel \\"Broadbrush\\" Goldhagen): the Church's reactionism in the 19th century, the Inquisition's obsession with bloodlines, and traditional supersessionist tradition facilitated the eventual emergence of Nazi racism.  But along the way, Popes and thinkers who sought to protect the Jews are named and credited.<br />The genius of this book is its constant and often anguished contemplation.  Carroll writes with great empathy for his subjects: Catholics and Jews alike.  His emphasis on stressing counterfactuals is refreshing - it is good for all of us to know that a better history could have happened.  And he is ultimately hopeful.  He recognizes in John XXIII and John Paul II the seeds of reconciliation.  <br />His call for Vatican III is interesting.  This is not an event that we can see in the immediate future, but the reforms he proposes are sensible and perhaps inevitable.  Reading this book was a refreshing look at the subject of Jewish-Catholic relations, in spite of all the terrible events Carroll chronicles.	2002-02-21
US	51126761	R2SZI9TXNU0U5P	0451410017	182243858	Pressure Points	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Meets this critic's &quot;seminar gone awry&quot; novel standards!	This book was not what I expected.  I did not purchase it because of any prior knowledge of Larry Brooks.  I purchased it because it looked like the most interesting and suspenseful item of about 25 books in a hospital gift shop, and I had plenty of time on my hands.<br />From the back and front covers of the paperback edition, the book appeared to be more of a &quot;people getting hunted in the woods&quot;  type - that genre so thrillingly explored in Ice-T's 4 star classic &quot;Surviving the Game.&quot;  Man contracts to go to some activity in the deep woods.  Man finds that HE is the activity in the deep woods.  Man becomes crafty outdoors expert and methodically kills off venal pursuers.  You know the type.<br />Alas, Pressure Points is really a &quot;motivational seminar gone awry&quot; type book.  And it's good at that.  The plot takes a bit to kick in - there is some backstory that gets a bit tiresome - but once it does, it is pretty satisfying.  The author could have put more work into threshing out the supporting characters at the seminar - several people emerge to play key roles and the reader wonders &quot;who the heck is that guy?&quot;  I'd encourage readers to take notes, but come on people!  This is only a &quot;motivational seminar gone awry&quot; book!  Not a motivational seminar itself.<br />Anyway, there are multiple plot twists, which keep you guessing, and I do like the depictions of the main characters.  Which is why I'll give this 4 stars.  I'm not going to fault the book on its misleading packaging, it would be unfair to its talented and motivated author, Mr Larry Brooks.<br />Guess I'll go watch &quot;Surviving the Game&quot; again.  Sigh . . .	2002-01-30
US	51126761	R2GCIPW15WLA07	0786114398	377046405	The Trial	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Kafka must be read (or heard)	I recently completed the audio book of The Trial.  Other reviewers have spoken at length about the dream-like nature of Kafka's prose and the incredibly way by which he captures the absurdity of daily decisions.  The Trial offers us much food for thought, seeming to foreshadow the rise of totalitarian governments, yet remaining maddeningly unclear about K's agency in his own life.<br />I'd like to offer a plug for listening to this book on tape.  The audio version offers excellent narration by Geoffrey Howard.  Howard's range of voices is excellent, and he truly does justice to Kafka's long Germanic sentences.  Listening to the book was a pleasure - and made me look forward to my commute (always the sign of a good audio book).<br />My one quibble with the audio version is that some of the fragments, played at the end, could have been interwoven with the text, which itself is unfinished.	2002-01-14
US	51126761	R2UT84BIHKIYM9	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	I was pretty disappointed	I picked up The Bear and the Dragon with a great deal of anticipation.  The arc of Clancy's books from Debt of Honor onward have been heading toward a confrontation between Russia and China, and this promised to be the conclusion of a great arc.  Conflict between Russia and China is tomorrow's scenario of war.  Other writers, most notably Eric Harry, have already explored this possibility and I was eager to see Clancy's take on it.  The fact that the World Trade Center had just been attacked certainly contributed to my eagerness to read this book.<br />The Bear and the Dragon begins with a fair amount of plotting and suspense, but the respective threads of the plot grow frayed long before hostilities commence.  The book offers hundreds of needless pages of set-up, involving one of Clancy's trademark fluke events (a contrived killing of a diplomat).  Generally, it's a bad call to force your readers to wait that long for a plot development that is foretold by the cover description.<br />The actual writing of the war disappointed me for 4 reasons.  <BR>1.) is that it feels routine.  The war is basically reminiscent of the one at the end of Executive Orders.  Little menace is generated by the Chinese.  The resolution of the war is sudden and unconvincing.  China's a bit tougher than that, and the war deserved more than the last quarter of the book.  Which brings us to <BR>2.) the human element is genuinely lacking.  Eric Harry has done some marvelous work in Arclight, Protect &amp; Defend, and Invasion to display the horror and chaos of war.  Clancy's war always seems distant.  Good guys do not express doubt, panic, shock or horror.  The cowboys are mutually interchangeable, equally cocky, and very few of them ever die.  <BR>3.) The bad guys are idiots.  Zhang Han San always seemed the smartest guy in the room before, but Clancy turns him into an idiotic zealot in this book.  <BR>4.) Clancy's willingness to make unapologetic use of the word &quot;chink&quot; is indefensible.<br />I really liked reading Tom Clancy novels before this.  The Hunt for Red October got me started on the entire genre, Red Storm Rising rocked, and Clear and Present Danger is one of the best plotted books I've ever read.  I do like Debt of Honor and Executive Orders as well - both delivered the promised fireworks.  That's why I had such hopes for this book, and why I found it disappointing.	2001-12-06
US	51126761	RTH9MBCUXIJVE	0393318397	296671544	Semites and Anti-Semites: An Inquiry into Conflict and Prejudice	Books	5	53	62	N	N	An excellent and exceedingly relevant book	In the wake of September 11, a lot of Americans are only starting to wake up to something known to anyone who has read this book: the Arab world has succeeded Nazi Germany as the global epicenter of annihilationist anti-Semitism.<br />Bernard Lewis' book was written well in advance of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and it makes essential background reading into the bizarre theorizing that is so replete in the Arab world.  <br />Lewis writes carefully and with sympathy for his subjects, and he is careful to draw a line between criticism of Israel and outright bigotry.  Still, his inquiry finds that far too many newspapers and intellectuals in this region are willing to embrace medieval libels and Nazi tracts in their efforts to explain away the perseverance of Israel.<br />Anyone who holds universal tolerance as a cardinal value - regardless of their stance on the Israel-Palestine conflict - should read this book carefully.  Unless the world shines the light of truth on the recesses of paranoia and hatred lurking in the Arab world, we will be certain of seeing many more Osama bin Ladens	2001-11-09
US	51126761	R31UBL9S03F2MS	1559721367	200318227	Pacific Nightmare: How Japan Starts World War III : A Future History	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not really in the fictional style, but an intriguing book	I'm feeling more like a 3 1/2 star review, actually.<br />Pacific Nightmare still has a lot of the currency with which it was written.  I read it some time ago, expecting it to fit within the general technothriller genre.  It really doesn't - it is more mature and more concerned with politics and political trends.<br />The style is dry, as Winchester develops his scenario for the disintegration of China and involvement of Japan.  His tone is more that of a foreign correspondent writing dispatches, rather than a Tom Clancy.  But he has incorporated well developed subplots involving Taiwan and the Korean peninsula.<br />East Asia is regarded, in some ways, as one of the most volatile regions in the world.  This book is a good introduction to the dangers that political conflict in this region may pose to all of us.	2001-11-09
US	51126761	RSBK4312K5BN4	068804686X	959479659	Foxcatcher	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good Charlie Brewer thriller	William Hallahan is likely the best suspense author you've never read.  Foxcatcher is a good example of his work.  It is both wry and suspenseful, managing to capture the essence of the two opposing protagonists: Brewer and McCall.  Hallahan's style is measured, precise and professional.  He uses an economy of detail to focus the reader's attention, and then hooks him in for the long haul.<br />Never mind the spoiler laden review below.  Check out some Hallahan!  You will not regret it.	2001-04-11
US	51126761	R1BO8ERKQS02WF	0525246266	361241869	Starik	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very good Cold War thriller	Starik is perhaps not as well known as Cardinal of the Kremlin.  Nonetheless, it is a taut and well constructed thriller.  The plot revolves around a change of power in the Kremlin which brings a neo-Leninist madman to power.  <br />The characters who ultimately come together in this one to stave off World War III are interesting because they are an unlikely collection of rather unheroic people plotting to steal Lenin's corpse.  This is more of an every-person type of spy novel, as such it does not force cliche secret agents down our throats, rather an odd collection of Americans and Russians. <br />Additionally it is well written, and does manage to crank the suspense up to a good level.	2001-04-11
US	51126761	R353U8WP89HBPX	1859847765	292899299	To Kill a Nation: The Attack on Yugoslavia	Books	1	28	83	N	N	A rather disgusting piece of denial	Among the most interesting domestic products of America's recent wars in the Balkans has been a virtual split among the veterans of the anti-Vietnam War Left.  A number of 60s veterans found themselves repelled by the atrocities committed in the Bosnian and Kosovo wars and grew impatient with the West's refusal to intervene.  A stubborn few stuck the old &quot;enemy of my enemy&quot; formula that had worked so well - these include Noam Chomsky and his earnest factotum, Michael Parenti.  <br />Parenti, in an apparent effort to be the Chomsky of his generation has authored a strange, distorted pseudo-history of the Balkan Wars.  He neatly sews together fiercely-independent Western journalists like Roy Guttman, free-thinking intellectuals like Todd Gitlin and Susan Sontag (whose Left credentials he snippily questions), dedicated human rights organizations like Human Rights Watch, and, oh yes, the leaders of the West in a grand conspiracy to invade Yugoslavia to plunder its resources.  What resources, you say?  He doesn't say what exactly Clinton wanted so badly that he would risk his presidency (or his budget surplus) to pick on an economic bantamweight like Yugoslavia.  <br />In the process of putting this mass indictment together, Parenti steamrolls obliviously over the facts.  Anxious to discredit the bulk of Western reporting on Serb atrocities, he seizes on inconsistencies as a reason to toss all reports out - here is a man who believes in throwing out the baby with the bathwater.  God forbid that the Serb leadership might actually resemble the portrait painted of them by several dozen media organizations.  His &quot;enemy of my enemy&quot; formulation leads to some rather sickening attempts to paint war criminals like Radovan Karadzic and Biljana Plavsic as innocents caught in some Balkan adaptation of &quot;The Fugitive.&quot;  Consider Karadzic's role in the deliberate slaughter and rape of thousands, this is really quite perverse.<br />But nothing compares tothe tasteless little lagniappe he offers near the end of the book, where he quotes a speech by Milosevic where the man allegedly emphasized the multinational character of Serbia.  Even if Milosevic actually said those words, his actions led in a very different direction.  Hitler had his famous &quot;Peace Speech&quot; in 1933 - one wonders if a future Parenti book might cite this as proof that Poland invaded Germany in 1939.  <br />In the end, considering how many solid books have been written on Yugoslavia, Parenti seems to be doing his best to avoid the hard-headed and intricate analyses that dominate the field.  He is ultimately shy of the nuanced accounts offered by Laura Silber and Allan Little, David Rohde, Misha Glenny, Noel Malcolm and others because he knows that his book is a laughable work of pseudo-scholarship compared to theirs.  The only counterpoint he dares employ is to place his book alongside wartime reporting, with all its confusion and natural inconsistency.  With the warped precision of see-no-evil hindsight, this man has wrought a work of denial for the scrap heap.  One hopes that no victim of the Balkan wars ever has the misfortune to lay eyes on this book - it only adds insult to the injuries caused by those terrible events.	2001-04-02
US	51126761	R15N7GB7XEF9NK	0300035829	431246227	Thailand: A Short History	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A strong introduction to Thailand	David Wyatt has written a well-researched and extremely detailed history of Thailand.  Due to the complexity of the topic and the vast span of years he covers, this book can occasionally be a bit confusing.  The chapters  covering the last two centuries however are quite good and go a long way  toward explaining Thailand's exceptional status in its region.  I strongly  recommend this book to all people interested in the country.	2000-07-13
US	51126761	RP9Y1F3RRJ6PC	0395521327	809846138	Soldiers of God: With the Mujahidin in Afghanistan	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A masterful report on the war in Afghanistan	Robert Kaplan did what few Westerners dared to do in the 1980s: he entered the killing fields of Afghanistan to report on one of the century's most brutal wars.  This book is a searing and eloquent account of what he  witnessed.  It is largely anecdotal and linear and follows his travels from  the Pakistani frontier into the heart of Afghanistan.  Among the topics he  explores are the brutal extent of the Soviet campaign - which includes a  trip to the razed city of Kandahar - the role of the Pakistani ISI in  aiding the mujaheddin, and internal feuding between resistance groups.  This book was written in 1990, well before the overthrow of Najib, yet it  is highly prescient in forecasting the rise of fundamentalist Islam in  Afghanistan.  In that sense, it retains all the force and relevance it had  at time of writing.	2000-06-29
US	51126761	RRP2KJ8CCRF44	1577450086	648177902	The 15% Solution: A Political History of American Fascism, 2001-2022	Books	3	11	14	N	N	An odd yet revealing book	I picked up a freebie copy of this book on a bench in the hallway of my local university.  As a &quot;history of the future&quot; it looked very peculiar.  Eventually my curiosity got the better of me and I read it cover  to cover in one sitting.<br />The 15% Solution is basically an attempt in 1995  to write a &quot;non-fiction&quot; wake-up call against the proto-fascist  tendencies of the religious right.  While it is a &quot;history of the  future&quot; and each chapter details future events, the book has a large  number of footnoted references to statements made by the Gingrich  Republicans around 1994-95.  &quot;Johnathan Westminster&quot; wants us to  see the seeds of fascist rule in the Contract on America.  <br />How you  receive this verdict depends on where you stand.  I thought that  Westminster's quotes from the Gingrich sheep were revealing and disturbing.    Nonetheless, this book seems more a product of its time than an accurate  forecast.  American politics have moved in a very different direction from  that which the author foretold.<br />How does this stand up as a fictional  work of non-fiction?  The verdict here is mixed.  Each chapter of the book  details a step in the legal assault of future Presidents (from the  &quot;Right-Wing Reaction&quot;) on the Constitution then links their acts  to 90s conservatism while stressing that there is no &quot;historical  evidence&quot; that Limbaugh, Buchanan, Armey et al would support such  measures.  The chapters are quite repetitive and focus entirely on legal  discussions.  Some of the characters whose political observations are  quoted get very redundant.  Nonetheless the story is not  uninteresting.<br />This book is gimmicky and a little strange.  I doubt  conservatives can or will read it and like it.  Nonetheless, for what it  was, I found it readable and interesting if a bit off.	2000-06-28
US	51126761	R1A230K3KPWD67	0061005827	83514678	Lion's Run	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A peerless work of suspense	Lion's Run is, quite simply, the best work of spy fiction that I have ever read.  <br />I am a lifelong fan of the work of Craig Thomas, who puts the vast majority of suspense writers to shame, and I would venture that this is his best work.  <br />Lion's Run is global in scale and Shakespearean in drama.  It is the archetypal Craig Thomas novel, where a small group of people, working against the odds and against time confront a powerful conspiracy.  <br />Within the first fifty pages of the novel, Sir Kenneth Aubrey, Britain's spymaster, is falsely accused of being a KGB mole.  His friends and colleagues: Paul Massinger, Peter Shelley and Patrick Hyde race against time to exonerate Aubrey.<br />The action in Lion's Run is global and breathless - some of the best sequences include chases in Afghanistan, Vienna, and Prague.  Thomas' character are expertly crafted, and his writing is always gripping.  Particularly well written are the characters of Massinger, Hyde, and the fiendishly clever Tamas Petrunin who makes an unforgettable appearance.<br />In short, if you are seeking good spy fiction, look no further.	2000-06-05
US	51126761	R3AHAJYPM7X3UH	0816195188	996447318	Wild Cat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very good spy thriller	Wildcat is another excellent spy novel by Craig Thomas.  While it is not quite as good as the epic Lion's Run, Wildcat is a success in its own right.  <br />Recently reinstated into the SIS, Kenneth Aubrey is assigned to  supervise the defection of the son of his nemesis, Brigitte Winterbach, the  head of East German intelligence.  When the operation goes horribly awry,  Aubrey's own son is endangered by Winterbach's desire for vengeance.  All  the while, the clock is ticking down on an impending Soviet operation in  the Himalayas . . .<br />The action in this book has the breathless quality  that is one of Thomas' trademarks.  Thomas' expressive writing style  heightens the tension and drama of the book - which has a very original  storyline.  All in all, this is a novel worth reading.	2000-06-05
US	51126761	R4TJ3EKTHD7Z8	0704324369	68004529	Cyprus	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A good introduction to the Cyprus question	This is a well written, vigorously argued book on how Cyprus came to be divided.  Hitchens makes his case with passion and conviction in a style that is enjoyable to read.<br />Naturally, this is a very partisan book.  My  own feeling is that Hitchens has magnified the roles of outside powers at  the expense of analyzing the roles played by the Cypriots themselves.   There is a visceral New Left animus toward Washington's role here that may  obscure the extent to which this conflict was home-grown.<br />Nonetheless,  this is a strong book and a good introduction to the Cyprus issue.	2000-06-03
US	51126761	R2XCPV2HQPCJUA	0807847429	576590577	The War of 1898: The United States and Cuba in History and Historiography	Books	1	15	43	N	N	Conspiracy theories abound!	This book is a mess.  In the name of revising old truisms that have been discarded a long time ago - historians have known for decades that the Spanish-American War was hardly the crusade it was pitched as - this book  creates William McKinley the Extraordinary Supervillain as an explanation  to US policy.  There is no mention of the fact that he tried to keep the US  out of war, or of the fact that the country and congress basically went  crazy after a certain ship called the Maine blew up.  He can't disprove  theories about the Maine - he can't challenge the evidence of others - so  he just writes snidely about how every other historian is a dope.   <br />Discarding the old jingoistic Rough Riders stories (which were forgotten  a long time ago) doesn't oblige one to embrace bizarre conspiracy theories.   Ernest May's &quot;Imperial Democracy&quot;, John Offner's &quot;An  Unwanted War&quot;, and David Trask's &quot;The War of 1898&quot; are far  better at explaining this event.<br />For another review of this book check  out Theodore Draper's article in the 1998 volume of the New York Review of  Books.	2000-05-29
US	51126761	R137M78JZ31E55	0151002665	251438884	A Better War: The Unexamined Victories and Final Tragedy of America's Last Years in Vietnam	Books	5	128	146	N	N	A very good reexamination of the Vietnam conflict	We have been repeating certain truisms ad nauseum for the past twenty five years: &quot;It was a civil war&quot;; &quot;The South Vietnamese fought reluctantly&quot;; &quot;The North Vietnamese fought a popular war&quot;; &quot;US tactics were ineffective.&quot;  The Vietnam War has become a  clich in our historical memory.<br />Lewis Sorley deflates each and every one  of these truisms and helps to tell the real and much more tragic story of  the Vietnam War.  Through a thorough analysis of America's command strategy  under Abrams he shows how Americans came to understand the war as it was  and fought much more effectively.  Sorley's experience as a military  historian helps him to explain the course of the war on the battlefield,  particularly the outcome of the Easter Invasion.  Lacking the leftist  biases of many Vietnam War historians also allows him to discuss the  unsavory side of the Communist struggle - and the fact that they were just  as dependent on their patrons as South Vietnam was on us.  Additionally,  his use of Communist sources details just how effectively the Allies fought  after 1968.<br />I picked up this book believing that we should have stayed  out of Vietnam.  I put it down feeling that our abandonment of the South  was perhaps the most profound act of cowardice in American history.   Sorley's book captures the tragedy of this abandonment - and the lost  possibilities for millions of South Vietnamese, Laotians, and Cambodians,  too many of whom did not survive long after the &quot;liberation&quot;.	2000-05-02
US	51126761	RUX1RQLQPWF6O	0446515574	527982210	Pax Pacifica	Books	1	1	7	N	N	A very fictional book!	This is a very fictional book!  Granted all novels are based on make believe but this book was much more fictional than most works of fiction.  The characters were all made up and the author made them go through a bunch of events that haven't really happened (I don't read the papers that much).   Sometimes I wondered if the events in this book were real, but I realized  that they were just too unreal to be real.  In fact they were fictional and  I didn't really believe them!  I'm not sure that the Secretary of State  ever goes dancing.  I mean, who would want to be boogeying in between  Madeline Albright and Warren Christopher.  It'd be a pretty lame party!	2000-04-23
US	51126761	R1IWIOTFUK6WAJ	1879176041	861909548	Imperial Democracy: The Emergence of America As a Great Power	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Versatile, eloquent and masterful	This is possibly the best history written of the origins of the Spanish-American War.  Ernest May utilizes a very wide range of sources to produce the first international history of the crisis of 1898.  May's  versatility is unparalleled: he masters the details of American domestic  politics, the geopolitical aims of the powers and the intra-cabinet  intrigues that determined European policy.  The outcome is to set an  American story in a broad international context so that the reader may  fully understand just what 1898 meant for America, Spain, and Europe as a  whole.<br />This is a truly indispensable work of history.	2000-04-21
US	51126761	R2AQIFAP8S1LY3	1566632471	248629448	Chamberlain and the Lost Peace	Books	1	23	41	N	N	A very strange look at 1939	John Charmley has a thesis that he has tried to hammer home repeatedly: that Britain should not have intervened in the Second World War and that, by doing so, Winston Churchill succeeded in mortgaging Britain's future to  America, losing the Empire, and ushering in decades of social democracy in  Britain.  In other words, Charmley thinks Britain would have been better  off if it had turned  an even blinder eye to Nazism.<br />This book is  nominally about Chamberlain, but we see a lot of Churchill and Charmley  tries to bring in his arch-villain whenever possible.  This visceral  dislike for Churchill - combined with a fawning admiration for Chamberlain  - is troubling in that it prevents Charmley from acknowledging that one was  ever right and that the other was ever wrong.  This book is about as  partisan as possible.<br />His ultimate argument, that Nazi Germany posed no  threat to Britain is absurd.  Charmley does not even bother to examine  Hitler's ambitions; had he done so, his argument would have fallen apart.   Germany sought to be an Atlantic power, as well as a European power.   Ideological bias blinds Charmley from the fact that a triumphant Germany  would have effectively emasculated Britain and encouraged Italy and Japan  to poach London's colonial possessions.  He despises America enough to  blind him to the fact that there were far more rapacious powers operating  in the 1940s (see some of the letters Charmley has written to the Daily  Telegraph)<br />All in all, this book is best read as an example of modern-day  Tory cynicism and contempt for the past.   As a chronicle of the years  before the war it has little to recommend it.	2000-04-21
US	51126761	R2LNTFYA2237WF	0801490480	932867393	The New Empire: An Interpretation of American Expansion, 1860-1898 (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A very good book with debatable conclusions	I disagree with much that is in this book but I would not dispute that it is an indispensable work on the 1890s.  LaFeber's writing is crisp, his research is vigorous and his conclusions are bold.  He is by far the most  persuasive and talented member of the economic determinist school.<br />My  problems with this book concern its conclusion, where I feel LaFeber's  thesis tramples over evidence that the Spanish-American War was triggered  more by political events than economic aspirations.  His depiction of  McKinley seems 2 dimensional and incomplete and his evidence for McKinley's  motivations is highly circumstantial.  I feel he is far too dismissive of  evidence that McKinley was forced into war.  The seminal event in the 1890s  was (in my view) not so much the product of a rational program of expansion  as the outcome of a series of fits and starts, culminating in the  destruction of the USS Maine.  I would personally recommend Ernest May's  Imperial Democracy to complement LaFeber's account of 1898.<br />Nonetheless,  this is a real classic.  You don't have to agree with the book to find it a  valuable contribution to the field.	2000-04-21
US	51126761	R1AH1RA5E7H7OP	0393312186	491700063	Time on the Cross: The Economics of American Slavery	Books	1	45	101	N	N	Tells the Unreconstructed what they want to hear!	Time on the Cross is seriously flawed.  While the intent behind it is honest, the outcome of this project is a gold mine for Confederate apologists.  Fogel and Engerman systematically misrepresent the nature of  slavery in the Old South.    Their account lacks any conception of the  nuances of life in the antebellum South.  Their use of sources is highly  selective: examining the diary of one slaveholder, Bennett Barrows, they  use selective examples to conclude that he did not whip his slaves  indiscriminately.  Apparently they missed the pages where dear old Mr  Barrows had himself a \\"whipping frolick\\" or where he beat all of  his field hands as punishment for losing a shovel.  By the time they assert  that whipping was rare (in their words, \\".7 whippings per hand per  year) I'm ready to gag.    Consistent in this book is a systematic  inattention to the psychological reality of the slave system.  F&E  don't understand subtler forms of coercion; they don't understand fear.  In  their economic analyses, one senses that they stacked the deck to favor the  South: one hilarious map groups (slaveholding) Missouri in the North and  includes the \\"states\\" of Oklahoma, Nebraska, and North and South  Dakota.  None of the last four entered the Union before 1865!     Fogel and  Engerman should have stuck to pure econ.  When they decided to write  history, they came to the field projecting economic assumptions onto their  subjects, forgetting the very complex and layered nature of life in the  South.  Having reduced slaves to eager workers with a Protestant work ethic  they have inadvertently produced a book that must read very well at meetings  of the daughters of the Confederacy.    For a much better history of  slavery, look at Kenneth Stampp's The Peculiar Institution. Herbert  Gutman's Slavery and the Numbers Game is a great critique of F&E.	2000-02-13
US	51126761	R1JPKE8T75PRZ8	0345330277	488365382	Another War, Another Peace	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Masterful and heartbreaking	This is an excellent novel.  Its plot is admirably simple: the story of two soldiers in Vietnam who, in spite of everything, become fast friends.  It is touching, vivid and ultimately heartbreaking.  This is one of the  best Vietnam novels ever written and deserves to be read and republished.	2000-02-13
US	51126761	R32IWQN6V210W8	0807847429	576590577	The War of 1898: The United States and Cuba in History and Historiography	Books	2	25	52	N	N	Thorough . . . and yet quite disappointing	Louis Perez can hardly be faulted for not doing his reading.  He leaves scarcely a stone unturned in his survey of the historiography of 1898.  Yet this book falls far short of its potential.<br />I suspect the reason for this  is both political and methodological.  Perez writes from the left and he  focuses on Cuba.  Nothing is wrong with either, however, taken together  these produce a skewed and inaccurate description of American policy in  1898.  Perez criticizes his predecessors for thinking that they can write  about Cuba from an American perspective.  He makes the same mistake,  however, in thinking that his command of Cuban history gives him some kind  of special insight into McKinley's motivations.<br />The academic left has  generally had little to offer studies of the Spanish-American War.  Julius  Pratt's Expansionists of 1898 blew their argument out of the water by  arguing that American businesses did not want war with Spain.  That hasn't  kept authors like Perez from trying to cast McKinley as some kind of  scheming imperialist.<br />One does not have to be a fan of McKinley to find  this characterization inaccurate.  It is underpinned by entirely  circumstantial evidence.  Worse, it is contradicted by McKinley's  biographers, and by accounts which emphasize the extraordinary pressure  that the President faced in March of 1898.  Perez writes snidely and  dismissively of the impact of the explosion of the U.S.S. Maine, while  refusing to offer his own theory of the impact of the event.  He never  directly refutes the accounts emphasizing the Maine, he just makes it clear  that he really dislikes them.<br />Perez' conclusion - which makes Fidel  Castro one of the few heroes of the book - does little to redeem this  overly political, snidely written, and surprisingly incomplete text.	2000-01-19
US	51126761	R1GPHGN56PF8U3	0553101749	766527144	Heaven's Reach (Uplift Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yes there were loose ends, but they come with Uplift novels!	I, for one, was riveted by the concluding novel in the second Uplift trilogy: I couldn't put it down. While I would have liked another 50 pages at the end to explain what follows the conclusion, I can accept that there are things Brin would prefer to leave for later. Full disclosure always sounds better than it turns out, the best conclusions always leave something for the next installment - and we can be certain something is on the way.<BR>The wonderful thing about the whole Uplift Universe is that it is so vast and - necessarily - Brin cannot fully explore every subject or character to their utmost potential. Often he employs hints as to their underlying nature, or is content to leave mysteries for future novels. This is a worthy, essential entry in one of the greatest science fiction series ever - even better than Star Wars (particularly after The Phantom Menace)	1999-08-25
US	51126761	R1QBK4LTRLYZB1	0553265784	647530636	In the Ocean of Night	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An imaginative opener to a stellar series	In the Ocean of Night dramatically opens the Galactic Centre series.  It does so gradually and originally, involving one of the most imaginatively written alien encounter scenes ever.   While this book lacks the frenetic  pace of some of its sequels, it is nonetheless a worthwhile member of the  series.	1999-07-14
