US	51140190	R3MHXDHKSPPN92	0892968028	978532593	Watch Your Back! (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	4	3	8	N	N	one of the best Westlake books you will find	I really enjoyed reading this latest Dortmunder book. Westlake is complicating his plots further and further as he progresses in the series and it really adds to what other wise would be a whole lot of hot air. I totally dis-agree with the other reviewers here giving this book five stars. \\"Watch Your Back\\" is a fun book but it does not stand up to classics like Chandler or Jim Thompson. I think that even Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiasson have a few books between themselves that easily out shine this story. But all of my belly-aching aside, if you have read most of the rest of this series and are looking forwards to catching up with old friends like I was, this will be a satisfying novel. Just don't expect anything new here.	2005-10-10
US	51140190	R3PB9I1CRZ34H1	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	its great to say that this latest Bosch is one of the best in the series	I am a big fan of Connelly's Bosch series and the last few books have been a pretty hard comedown from some of the earlier near perfection. What is so great here is that Connelly is scaling back the over the top serial killer motif (ala James Patterson) that was destroying some of the more recent Bosch books. Instead Connelly goes back to what he does best, the simpler nitty gritty realistic Los Angeles that was so brutally enjoyable to read. I totally recommend this book. It suffers a little in the end... I think that the resolution was anti-climactic and typical. I would like to see Connelly pick up one of Pronzini's latest books and see how he could pull some of the unexpected endings into his own work. I feel that Connelly is hopefully ending his 'Sell Out' days and returning to his characteristic wonderful storytelling. Ah, he really didn't sell out. I think that Connelly found himself here.  The Closers is a book that epitomizes everything the Bosch series is about; Internal politics, deductions, legwork, and character development.<br /><br />The plot had a couple of holes in my opinion. Things are paved over that could have been more difficult. The Closers is near perfection. But I hold Connelly to a higher standard. So I'm knocking it down a peg.<br /><br />Read this book... its great. Just don't start the series here. Start at the beginning.	2005-10-06
US	51140190	R2DXB57T40FXW3	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	This is my favorite Kenzie/Gennaro novel	I sort of feel that the first book in this series was just one long excuse to present one action scene after another. This second volume digs a little deeper and we as readers are presented with a complicated story. Lehane has over time become one of my very favorite genre writers and I think that Mystic River is right up there with any genre book ever put onto paper. The Kenzi/Gennaro series is much more mundane than Lehanes masterpiece, but it is still fun. Here in 'Darkness...' Lehane does not let things go too far over the top. It still remains in the realm of somewhat believable. The great plot is powered along by a series of sophisticated (sophisticated for genre writing) character studies.<br /><br />You really should pick this book up if you want a pretty nice series to delve into. I don't think that this book will disappoint you.	2005-09-07
US	51140190	R2ERPVN8NICZI2	0743255054	791154205	The Sign of the Book	Books	2	7	10	N	N	The first three books in this series are five star... so dont give me a hard time about giving this book only 2	This book is a real let down. I thought that each of the first two books contained some of the best genre prose to come along since Jim Thompson and Raymond Chandler roamed the streets. \\"The sign of the Book\\" On the other hand (if looked at objectively) is a pretty pathetic offering to what still could be a very interesting and drawn out series. I think that my main beef with this latest Dunning book is that it just doesn't stack up plot wise to the masterful turnings of \\"Booked to Die\\". Instead we as readers are confronted with an alarmingly cut and dry thriller that felt as old as the crumbling Kentucky Blue Ridge Mountains. Secondly, as others have pointed out, Janeway is starting to get a little stale as a literary figure. He has stopped growing here. Instead of as in earlier books, where the reader was able to watch Janeway come to life through Dunnings gifts as an author, here in \\"Sign of the Book\\" we see Janeway suffocating on formula.<br /><br />If you enjoyed the other Dunning books and are looking for something along similar lines to this series, I would suggest the overlooked author Douglas Kennedy. He has one really good one from a decade or so ago called the 'Big Picture'. The plot here really reminds me of Dunning at his best.	2005-08-09
US	51140190	RF0NTBEWK699W	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Lehane is one of my favorite genre writers	When I say that Lehane is one of my favorite writers, I mean it. Mystic River is one of, if not the best, genre book ever written. It ranks up there with the best of Chandler, Hammett, and Jim Thompson. Lehane's Kenzie/Gennaro series is also pretty good. From one book to the next in this series I think that Lehane found himself as an author. A Drink Before the War was Lehane's first effort that was published I believe. It is a bit weary when compared to his more mature work and really deserves no more than three stars. This series is worth reading, and you should not pass this book by if you plan on wandering into it. Just keep in mind that these books do get better with the passage of time. They kind of remind me of a darker Harlan Coben/Myron Bolitar effort.<br /><br />This book has several major faults. First of all, it drops right into the series as if this were the second or third book and not its first. Time and again Lehane references past excursions or characters as if the reader were in the know. It feels as though Lehane were using the plot to jump from one action scene to the next without regard to plausibility. I was looking forwards to reading this book after enjoying the rest of the series if just because I wanted a more intimate introduction to the duo protagonists. But this is not the case here. They arrive fully formed and undergo little fleshing out.<br /><br />I do urge you to read Lehane. His only masterpiece thus far is Mystic River, and you might as well start with that book if you have yet to read Lehane.	2005-08-04
US	51140190	R2TVTLP1NYP1N2	0446604712	770610425	What's the Worst That Could Happen? (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	this IS a FUN book... but is that enough?	This is a breezy book making its entry into a series that is based on fun uncomplicated prose or plots. Dortmunder is a pretty decent protagonist, thrown out there by the illustrious Donald E. Westlake. As a character, Dortmunder is an unassuming and humble crook. He is not the brightest of bulbs out there, but in the end he manages to whip together one big time heist after another. What is kind of lacking with Dortmunder or with this series as a whole is character development. Other than a few quirks, the characters are really only skin deep. The main draw with these books are that they are always interesting takes from the other side of the fence. Instead of following around a PI busting an evildoer, with these books we follow around the slime presented in a kindly light while they make fools of authority.<br /><br />With `What's the Worst that could happen?' Westlake offers up a sort of Oceans Eleven plot here. Only this plot is much more complicated and in the end more satisfying than the movie. Dortmunder stalks a Billionaire who through circumstances I wont go into here, takes possession of Dortmunder's ring. Now he wants his ring back and the exploits that follow are enjoyable to follow.<br /><br />A lot is lacking in this series. They are fun. I wont deny that. But they are on par with a decent 80's TV show like Magnum PI rather than attempting to become an earth moving force like Raymond Chandler. These are throwaway novels... pulp in the extreme. Nothing bad about that, but you should know that with these books you should not expect greatness.	2005-08-01
US	51140190	R2T4RBOY45D3A7	0446576972	670656489	Dance of Death	Books	3	0	1	N	N	This is a very fun book...	Preston and Child are a good duo writing team. They churn out the pulp fast and keep your desire forever more Pendergast novels satiated. Yeah these books are fun to read. Yeah the plots are kind of goofy unreal comic book oriented. And yeah, the writing could be generously placed on par with Dean Koontz. But somehow it all works. The books by Preston and Child click in a summer blockbuster kind of way.<br /><br />Even though I like these books, I'm not giving this one five or even four stars because I am a man of principle. I think that the authors have gotten wayyyy to attached to their legion of protagonists. Over the last couple of books in this series Pendergast has achieved a super hero status that rivals Batman. Because of this, I think that a lot of the suspense has been drained out of the novels because you just know nothing bad will happen to him. The other peripheral characters likewise have become so dear to the authors that even in this book, where the nemesis is killing off all of Penderast's closest friends, Preston and Child were forced to introduce characters we really haven't become acquainted with in previous novels.<br /><br />What I wish more than anything is if these two fine authors took it upon themselves to mature as a team. I wish that they would start writing exclusively stand-alone novels without re-occurring characters. I wish that they would do this and then not hesitate to knock one of them off in sacrifice to an old fictional standby known as an homage to suspense.<br /><br />If you want some fun books to read, I totally recommend this series. I say you should start with Relic and work your way book by book to this point. Otherwise you might miss several in the know references.	2005-07-28
US	51140190	RMFHS6Q0PMC91	0786705051	689445921	Boobytrap (Pronzini, Bill)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I really like Pronzini, but this is no five star read	Before I came onto the scene, this book had a five star average. I feel a little bad about taking it down a notch. I say this especially because I admire the writing of Pronzini. But this book here is not only a mediocre book at best, but also far from Pronzini's finer efforts.<br /><br />First of all the plot is simple and much stretched. The Nameless Detective novels get better latter on in the series. This book is kind of the middle of what Pronzini has written. The story line is very 1980's TV cop show implausible. It really feels sort of like a filler... Nameless gets a little older here and notches another case under his belt, but not in the magnificent way he has in Pronzini's last couple of books. I mean, come on... circumstantially, the guy happens to take a family out to the lakes while the husband is kept at home. Only a serial bomber is waiting for the husband to arrive and on and on. Give me a break Pronzini.<br /><br />But... on the other hand, the writing is still first notch prose wise. It's sparse and reflective. I wouldn't pass this book by if you are slowly devouring the entire series.	2005-07-27
US	51140190	R20E3V2MTMBS4V	0440184622	584625374	Tai-Pan (Asian Saga)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	This is a pretty decent novel	I am wondering if this book might be a little dated. It was written about thirty years ago and in some ways was a precursor to many of today's swashbuckling thrillers. The scenes of action here feel a little tepid in comparison to what Clavell wrote in Shogun. I kept feeling like the story was building towards a great climax, but instead it ends softly and slightly unresolved. The ending is not terrible by any means, mainly because it is kind of unique. But this uniqueness also left me in a state of anticipation that was a little odd. I felt like Clavell had written 700 or so pages of precursor and that the interesting part was about to happen after the last page.<br /><br />This is a pretty long and involved book, Clavell goes into great detail, but on reflection it would have been even more satisfying if as an author he had been able to add just an extra layer of nuance or sense of place. You might wonder what I am trying to say here... the book is lavish in detail, but still contains not enough. By this I mean that only in select spots does Clavell stop and build a sense of place that will really put you in the world he is writing. Perhaps it is enough in that every forty or so pages he really slows down and offers this glimpse. But I would have enjoyed it even more if he had gone into side stories that might not have enhanced the linear plot but had instead grabbed the reader and given some insight into the characters of this world outside of the protagonists eyes.<br /><br />Tai Pan was a pretty decent read. I found that it did not compare with Shogun in it's over all historical sweep. The only other Clavell work that I have read is King Rat, a WWII prison camp story that almost worked like `Stalag 17'. All in all, it seems to me, as an impartial observer, that Clavell's work lacks an over all punch that does not manage to blow the reader away. If you were a fan of Shogun's like myself, Tai Pan might be a little bit of a let down because it is lacking in the manipulative intrigue department. The story just plods along, unfolding without the finesse or character development shown so adeptly in Shogun.<br /><br />Wilbur Smith is a contemporary writer who has only just recently after a long career managed to piece together a trilogy that feeds upon Clavell's legacy with his Courtney Family books `Blue Horizon' and the such. I would recommend these books  \by Smith over Clavell. If you have not read either of these authors and are looking for a comparison, I would say that Raphael Sabatini and `Gone With the Wind' are precursors to the mindset that can be found here in Tai Pan. There are many better books out there that fall into this genre. In Tai Pan every thing is there for a rousing adventure, but it is left under developed and in many ways is stiff and un-pliable.he manipulative intrigue department. The story just plods along, unfolding without the finesse or character development shown so adeptly in Shogun.  <br /> <br />Wilbur Smith is a contemporary writer who has only just recently after a long career managed to piece together a trilogy that feeds upon Clavell's legacy with his Courtney Family books `Blue Horizon' and the such. I would recommend these books  \by Smith over Clavell. If you have not read either of these authors and are looking for a comparison, I would say that Raphael Sabatini and `Gone With the Wind' are precursors to the mindset that can be found here in Tai Pan. There are many better books out there that fall into this genre. In Tai Pan every thing is there for a rousing adventure, but it is left under developed and in many ways is stiff and un-pliable. <br />	2005-07-25
US	51140190	R2UHHTIB2SVG5D	0786889691	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is a really good book	`The Blue Hour' is in many ways a first-rate detective novel. Unlike so many contemporary thrillers, Parker packs in a trove of deductive reasoning by the protagonist team of Hess and Merci. So the whole novel feels like it is formed under the sure hands of an author capable of building an engaging puzzle. I say this with admiration because it has become very commonplace to find novels where supposedly great investigators really don't piece together clues ala Mr. Holmes or Mrs. Christie. Instead authors for the most part these days just allow for the protagonists to walk into breaks via chance. I for one often find myself cringing at the silly leaps of implausibility you might find in most thrillers. That does not occur here in Parker's novel.<br /><br />I really just want to urge you on... give this novel a chance. It has a couple of faults, but it is still vastly superior to a lot of what is out there. My main beef with this novel is that it is written from the perspective of four different points of view... Hess, Merci, and two characters's that Parker throws in to confuse matters. I could have done without the two characters that Parker sets up as possible suspects. I think that this took much of the suspense away from the ultimate resolution of the novel. I found myself guessing the ending a third of the way through the book, though Parker did throw a few red herrings into the mix and I was never %100 sure if I was reading the signs correctly. One last thing that got me was the Hollywood ending. I think that this book did not need such a typical resolution.<br /><br />If you have read this book and are looking for other authors to test, I constantly thought of early Patricia Cornwell novels while reading this. If you have not read her you might like her first five or so books. Another good author is Denis Lehane, I have enjoyed pretty much everything he has written; in fact he just might be the very best genre writer of our day.	2005-07-25
US	51140190	R2A7QI9DO8ECBP	0440211174	973993581	Epitaphs	Books	3	3	4	N	N	This is a great series, just dont start with this book	It's hard not to enjoy Pronzini and his elegant simple detective tales. They really feel a lot like Marlow transplanted half a century into the future. `Epitaphs' is another good strong story that fits in well with the rest of the series. On the other hand, this book feels uninspired against what I would consider a five star book. `Epitaphs' feels like filler, wedged in between Pronzini's first very good books and his later interesting and unique story structures that you will find in his last couple of additions to the series. I would equate this book as being on par with the more forgettable Tony Hillerman or Dick Francis books. This is not a negative in my book, instead I would say that my comment is one that should lead you to pick `Epitaphs' up and enjoy it in the context of the greater series as a whole. It's just that this is not the book I would recommend to anyone of whom I would like to find interest in the Nameless Detective series.<br /><br />If you have not read Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series and enjoy Pronzini, I would whole-heartedly recommend these books to you. Start with the first in the series and read the first seven or so. They are great up to that point and then start to become redundant.	2005-07-23
US	51140190	RXALIRH5EP7M2	0312981341	801031260	Reflecting the Sky: A Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novel (Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	this book is ok	I am a pretty tough critic most of the time, mainly because I expect perfection from authors. I know that this book has gotten pretty darn good reviews and I am kind of buckling the trend here with a three star review. This book does have several flashes of brilliance and Rozen does manage to pull off some neat plot tricks. But in the end here this is a very confusing story. I know that over and over again the characters talk about how it is very Chinese to have inexplicable occurrences and motives. But it is frustrating when as a reader you can look back over the plot of the story and poke huge holes in the plot. Perhaps even more frustrating is that in order for the plot to unfold the way it did would require very extreme circumstances of the most improbable order to occur not just once but dozens of times. In my book Lydia Chin was not being a detective here but was instead being dragged along through silly coincidence.<br /><br />Perhaps my assessment here is a little harsh. I think that I am a little overly peeved because parts of this book are so great. I was bowled over at the very beginning, where the kidnapping is first unveiled. When I got to the end of this scene I thought about all of the possible scenarios that might unfold ala Agatha Christie and was delighted that I found myself loosing track of them. It was like Rozen had taken a complete Backgammon set and had thrown the pieces onto the floor. Every piece thus representing possible suspects motives, and only waiting to be uncovered by Chin's logical reasoning. Only the book did not really work out that way.<br /><br />I might recommend the #1 Ladies Detective Agency series, the Patricia Cornwell books starting from the first, or Tony Hillerman's books (also good to start with the first books here) in lieu of Reflecting the Sky. Obviously others disagree with me. This is not a bad book, but it is not a masterpiece either.	2005-07-22
US	51140190	R3TM8MS3F0ULPF	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is my personal favorite of the series so far	Morality for Beautiful Girls is a real treat. I have really gotten attached to this series of books that cherish story telling over action scenes. Smith's work here with his #1 Ladies Detective Agency is not about finding clever ways to solve mysteries. So if you have yet to pick up one of his stories or are wondering why so many people love these books keep that in mind while you read them. Instead of trying to solve the puzzles or sit waiting to be shocked into sitting up biting your nails, watch how Smith pulls together a dozen interesting personal tales and then weaves them together in a magical way. In `Morality...' Smith manages to slip in a few insights into how one might manage to live a proper and upstanding life. He does so by having his characters think of the old Botswana ways or the Ten Commandments and then wonder at what is wrong with modern Botswana men and women. Then he goes about with stories that link into this theme. All in all this is a very deceivingly complex book. It lulls you with its simple approach and if your not careful you might not notice that Smith might be trying to change you, the reader, with his clever insights.<br /><br />So far I think that because of what I said above, this is Smith's best work of the series. I am in awe of his abilities as an author. This is sort of like reading a simple version of Moby Dick with all of its layers of meaning. Don't pass this series up, though I would suggest you start with the first book.<br /><br />Enjoy	2005-07-22
US	51140190	R16QIX0GJ0L56T	0446611247	607227823	The Judgment	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Heed my warning... Turn aside your thoughts of reading this book here!!!	This book has several factors working in its favor. Primarily it is a plot that is very unusual that will grab you attention and keep you hooked long enough to finish the book. But... other than that, this is pretty much a wasteland of bad writing all around. Even the plot itself is more than a little ridiculous if you sit back and think about it for a moment.<br /><br />I really started to feel the pain here when Buffa introduces a love affair for Antonelli. I was groaning out loud over the complete sappyness of this side story that just fills in a few pages with wasted thoughts. Buffa has garnered my respect here by producing perhaps the worst love affair ever to be placed on the written page.<br /><br />The Amazon Editorial Review had a good thing to say about this book. And that is \\"At some point during The Judgment (the exact moment will vary according to individual tolerance), you may find yourself putting the book aside and picking up an Elmore Leonard for an emergency infusion of quality dialogue.\\"  I had to laugh when I read this because it is so true and it summed up my feelings strongly here. However, Amazon does go on to praise the courtroom scenes. I have to beg to differ. I am not a lawyer and don't watch more than a couple of hours of lawyerly centered TV a year. But even I, a novice in such matters, had to scratch my head at the way Buffa totally pulls out a courtroom scenario from left field and manages to present it so artificially that it felt like I had an attack on my sense of plausibility.<br /><br />Turn aside here, heed my warning. If you are looking for a courtroom thriller, you might want to go back and read Turrow's first book `Presumed Innocent.' A much superior mystery than the Judment.	2005-07-20
US	51140190	R3AUV909LIXEA7	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is a great and subtle story	I really am enjoying this series so far. The stories are very simple while at the same time they read as monumentally as end of the world thrillers. It's a real achievement to tell such quiet tales while pulling the reader in and keeping them at the edge of ones seat.<br /><br />Perhaps the best thing about these #1 Ladies Detective Agency books is plainly how it allows for an outsider, an American, to see Africa through the eyes of one who knows and loves their land. I realized while I was reading these books so far that I have never really thought of Africa in any other light than The Gods Must Be Crazy/Colonial superiority mindset, or through the lens of the evening news. I have long thought that Africa is a never-ending series of disasters akin to one of the levels of hell. Reading such a relentlessly positive and upbeat take on Botswana will surely help change ones opinions of Africa if you have not been there like myself.<br /><br />At the same time, I have to judge this story on its merits if I am going to be fair with my review. If I were to set this tale in the States for instance, would it be as engaging? I don't think so. I would give the mysteries and stories with in this book only a couple of stars. The originality of the writing and the unique mystery protagonist along with the setting and place on the other hand deserve five stars. So head into this book not expecting Agatha Christy. Instead think of it as if you were reading `A Year in Provance' and that this other travelogue book were laced with an amusing mystery or two.<br /><br />Enjoy	2005-07-18
US	51140190	RNDRCC34OVQFP	0743476298	652336182	The Bookman's Promise (Cliff Janeway Novels)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of the best series' in genre fiction out there	I love this series. Cliff Janeway is one of the most complete characters in the mystery genre. The books are tight and the plots twist and turn ending up with unexpected resolutions. However, the Bookman's Promise does leave a lot of frayed and farfetched threads hanging by the end. You could easily over look this and still be bowled over by Dunning's impeccable writing. But... for a true mystery aficionado like myself, you will have to admit when you look back over the story that a lot of what occurs here does not make total sense.<br /><br />First of all, when considering the resolution of the murder, you will have to admit that this is kind of hokey. I just did not understand why the murderer felt like he/she needed to do what he/she did. With the amount of time that elapsed (this will make sense if you have read the book) the object of desire were in all rights irrefutably the murderers in the first place. Secondly, the plot surrounding the blind old lady was very far fetched. It's hard to buy, and her giving that valuable book to a few strangers is odd to say the least. And lastly, another reviewer wondered why Dante was even in the book. When I thought about that, I sat and could not really answer the question. Dunning pulls in a peripheral bad guy to spice things up and in the end Dante has no real connection to the story. One last complaint that I have is that there is a huge flash back-story here talking about Richard Burton's trip to the South. I think that this story was kind of forced. If you read Murakami's `Wind Up Bird Chronicle' you could see just how seamlessly an adjunct third party story can fit into a larger tale. Holding them side-by-side, Murakami puts Dunning to shame.<br /><br />All of my ranting aside, I really did enjoy this book. There are a lot of faults here, but it was fun and informative regarding history and books at the same time. This is the third in a series and it only drops off a very little from the first two's intensity. Dunning is starting to remind me a little of Harlan Coben's stand alone books (by this I mean all of Coben's books without the character Myron Bolitar). Coben's recent books are a lot of fun like Dunning's. Coben is way too cheerful and optimistic, but if you like Dunning's work, I think you would also enjoy Coben.Dunning is starting to remind me a little of Harlan Coben's stand alone books (by this I mean all of Coben's books without the character Myron Bolitar). Coben's recent books are a lot of fun like Dunning's. Coben is way too cheerful and optimistic, but if you like Dunning's work, I think you would also enjoy Coben. <br />	2005-07-17
US	51140190	R2Y01RFWT9DT6U	0446677922	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This is a very well crafted mystery, wrapped in a 30's period tale	This is a really good book. I am giving it five stars here, but there is something that niggles at the back of my mind that refuses to equate this book with the very best I have read. Perhaps it is that `The Bottoms' plays a little too closely at first with `To Kill A Mocking Bird'. In the end this book has little to do with Mockingbird, but it really pulls up affiliations with Harper Lee's classic in its overall tone. Maybe also, Lansdale did not quite evoke enough of a sense of place or time for me. And lastly, the character `Goat Man' lost a little something because he was never built up as a terrifying figure after the first nights chase, little innuendo's are bandied about by Lansdale that lead one to know the truth about him long before the protagonists. But this is all nit picking. The book is first rate in every other respect.<br /><br />I strongly recommend this book, `The Bottoms'. I think that you will find here a page turning mystery/thriller/period piece that satisfies in a large degree anyone's appetite for a well-crafted book. It's also unusual enough that if you have read too many mystery/thrillers like I have, that you will be grateful for a change of pace. The ending is pretty much unexpected and Lansdale offers up enough red herrings that you will be lying if you say that you were %100 sure of the ending before you got there.	2005-07-16
US	51140190	R3EEWPUW5WZOHZ	0765343835	487940759	Midnight Pass: A Lew Fonesca Mystery	Books	2	0	4	N	N	This series is t he pits	Midnight Pass is ok. This whole Lew Fonesca series is kind of being spewed out by Kaminsky without passion. I think that when Kaminsky was getting started he managed to pull off a few works that had a little class. His Rostnikov/Russian police department series was enjoyable, though a little too dependent upon the style of Ed McBain and his 87th precinct work. But lately, Kaminsky has been churning out books like they were Beatles pop singles, three or four a year. And because of his desire to get these books out there quickly, I think Kaminsky is sacrificing originality.<br /><br />I thought that the first books in this series, Vengeance, and Retribution were pretty good, but they centered around one of the worst fictional characters that I have ever come across. The young mistreated girl Adel made me kind of sick. And the cast of characters surrounding Lew Foesca have become parodies of other detective novels. It's kind of sad that Kaminsky, whom has obvious talents, has fallen to such mediocrity. This story, Midnight Pass, feels like a run of the mill episode in a badly produced and marginal 80's tv drama.<br /><br />I think that if you skip this book, this series, and Kaminski altogether you will not be missing much. Try any of Denis Lehane's work. Mystic River is his best, but you might enjoy his Boston PI thrillers as well. Harlan Coben's stand alone novels that do not have the character Myron Bolitar in them are very good as well. Patricia Cornwell's earlier novels are great. Just pass this one by.	2005-07-15
US	51140190	R3W2WDHPWH5ZY6	1564312186	718378913	Illusions: A Nameless Detective Novel (Nameless Detective Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	This is a very good series, I didn't find Illusions as up to standard	Perhaps I read too many Pronzini's too quickly. For some reason Illusions was just not that great of a read in my opinion. I felt like Pronzini was kind of just offering up a half-baked effort and in my opinion it kind of fell a little flat.<br /><br />First of all this book centers around morality. This morality is a shady sort that is ambiguous, and in the end both cases here are not as difficult to digest as the author would like to make out. I found myself thinking that the two mysteries here were not really up to par with the other Nameless books in this series. The tales did not force Nameless to undergo change in anything other than a superficial level. Also, the suspense level never really ramped up at all, this was more of a case of going through the motions.<br /><br />I think that Pronzini's Nameless is one of the better PI's out there in the world of literature. I have enjoyed several of these books, especially the later ones (which is unusual in serial pulp). But as with any long running series, the author is bound to produce efforts not quite up to others, and I think that this is one of those.	2005-07-13
US	51140190	RQU2WQ7GCZ9VF	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Painfully leading plot structure destroys sophomore effort	I think that this book was a disaster. Maybe I am getting a little jaded in my old age, but I expect a little bit of cunning on the authors part when I read a genre book and this one has none to offer. My main beef with Pratchett is his tendency to show his cards early on and then spend endless amounts of time laying them out. By this, I mean that in just about every work of Pratchett that I have read, he tells you the entire plot within the first couple of paragraphs and then the rest of the novel is in a way very expected. `Equal Rites', the 3rd (I think) in this series was exactly like this also. When Pratchett is on, his books take unexpected turns and the reader is left wondering what will happen next. Sadly, everything in Light Fantastic can be seen coming from a mile away.<br /><br />I think that Pratchett wrote this entire book as a show case for his wit. Because of the success his first book, `Color of Magic' attained in the humor department, I think that Pratchett got a little confused and started to think that this was all that is important regarding a novel. Later in this series you will start to see the humor for the most part dry up and interesting story lines interceding. But here you will see none of that.	2005-07-13
US	51140190	R36JK7RWRFW3T6	0385305052	623285232	Demons	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Pronzini's best, though an admirable effort	Don't get me wrong with my low-ball three star review of this Pronzini yarn. I am quickly turning into a huge Nameless Detective fan. For some reason I am finding myself working backwards through the series. This is not something I normally do; it's just that the order in which I am obtaining these books is a little unusual. What I am finding by doing this is that Pronzini has become with time more complicated and subtle with successive novels. Maybe he has a few early ones that rival his later works, but Demon's is not up to par with the work that he has published over the last few years.<br /><br />My main complaint is that because Nameless has become so familiar with both the author and his reading public, that very little time is spent digging in and exploring Nameless here. So what is left is the protagonist battling with what might be his lady-friends infidelity and a mystery that is fairly predictable. What I love about Pronzini's later work is that I was always in awe of his misdirection and unique endings. But here, it was sort of obvious at least over what happened to Nedra, a missing woman.<br /><br />Look, I hate to dissuade anyone from passing up the Nameless series. I think that it is one of the very best of dozens of series' that I have read. I can't say start with the first in this series cause I haven't read it yet. But I can say that if you give one of these books a shot, you will be pleased with your choice. At the very least, this book is great, though kind of predictable with a tried and true plot.	2005-07-12
US	51140190	R3BHQ0CRG2X7IF	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	astonishing first novel	For a long time I have been intending to pick up Kingsolver and give her a read. When I worked at a bookstore as a youngster I remember often being amazed that if we were to sell only a handful of copies of a popular book, even a few years after being published, that this would be a pretty good track record. And the bookstore I worked at was a pretty big deal. So when I constantly found myself repacking the shelf with slews of newly re-ordered Kingsolver books, I would wonder why she was perhaps one of the best selling author in the store. Now I know. `The Bean Trees' is a very well crafted tale.<br /><br />The story here in `Bean Trees' is at its heart one of the most simple plot structures you will ever come across. It is as old as the hills and authors have been using this story line to tell stories in one way or another as far back in time as I have read. This is a coming of age tale wrapped around the charismatic character Taylor. What makes this book so unique is that primarily it is filled with side winding tales that spin the imagination off onto engaging tangents. I think that this might be Kingsolver's first book if I read her bio correctly. If it is, this is a very remarkable achievement. Few authors that I have read wrote a more impacting first novel, and those would be luminaries such as Updike, Mailer, Heller, and Salinger.<br /><br />My only beef with this story is that it does not really hit any true depths of emotion. It churns along on the surface of positively. I think that it plays a little too easily with the heartstrings. I was a little mad with Kingsolver in that she made everything a little too easy while attempting to offer a world of depravity cascading around the edges. This is part of the point of the book in a way... but still, it felt too clean... too calculated.<br /><br />I am entirely looking forwards to reading the rest of Kingsolver's work. I will look forwards to seeing how she develops as an author. And I would %100 recommend this book to anyone.end this book to anyone.  <br />	2005-07-11
US	51140190	R1ZQ0CDLWO6S36	0743410653	418692542	Booked to Die (Cliff Janeway)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is a book you really should not pass up	This is such a perfect book. It is crafted for those who love mysteries and thrillers as well as books themselves. Not only that, but the plot twists and weaves in a way that you just don't find in too many other stories. When you reach the end of Booked to Die, think about where you thought the story was going for the first half of the novel, and then stand back amazed at the ending. The book is like life itself, not a neat point A to point B journey, but instead an unraveling that is really very unexpected.<br /><br />Booked to Die is one of those books that, if you are like myself, will immediately hit you as a satisfying find. I have read hundreds and hundreds of the more popular books out there, and over the last year I have been searching out lesser known authors. Dunning is, and it's sad to say, not an author the general public would recognize as quickly as Grisham or Baldacci. But it is all the more satisfying to stumble across Dunning if just because you will know that in your hands is a hidden jewel of a mystery that in many ways is a secret you can hold for yourself.<br /><br />I know that I am not talking about the plot, or the characters too much here. Just read a couple of the other reviews for a synopsis if you need one. But trust me, as a very jaded reader myself, that this here book will be one that you won't be sorry to have picked up.	2005-07-10
US	51140190	R20UZFVDFJMLG8	0786710861	880123332	Spook: A Nameless Detective Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	this is not a knock down masterpiece, but it is very good	I really am enjoying getting into this series. Perhaps I am going about it in the wrong way, seeing as how I am starting with the last couple of books, rather than the first. But so far this has had zero impact on my ability to become engrossed with Pronzini and his gift at turning a tale. `'Spook' and `Bleeders' are the only two I have read thus far. `Bleeders' was just great because of his quiet and unexpected ending. ` Spook' is on the other hand even simpler than `Bleeders' in a lot of ways. And I like that. It's sort of a counter measure against all of the cookie cutter thrillers dealing with tired serial killer plots. `'Spook' does let the reader down a little because it feels like Pronzini is slowly winding down his series here. It's my own fault for not starting in the beginning. It does have a little less character development or conflict than I would have liked, but hey, this is the 28th book.<br /><br />All I have really to say that this was a fun book to read. If you have read too many mysteries and thrillers like I have, I think that you will really enjoy getting into Pronzini. I am really looking forwards to the first couple in this series and expect to find a character kind of like Block's early Matthew Scudder.	2005-07-09
US	51140190	R4MZSCJUA88A9	039915180X	797916108	Hidden Prey	Books	2	4	4	N	N	This series met its demise several books back	I really enjoyed reading these Prey novels by Sanford early on in the series. But like any series of books that whips out one book after another without a major evolutionary shift in either plot structures or characters, these books eventually become silly caricatures of themselves. In one of the Sanford interviews that I read, he said that he is writing to make money. (Obviously I am paraphrasing here). I have nothing against that at all, most popular contemporary thriller/mystery writers follow a strict guide line and leave the reader with a sense of happy contentment. I think that when you find a good thriller, like one of the first Prey novels, it is because the author is introducing a new and unusual character to the reader. Now that Sanford is 15 or so Prey novels into his series, Davenport is familiar, and without new nuances... the story becomes drab because it is almost like the author is going through the motions.<br /><br />I think part of what made Hidden Prey grotesque in a way is that Sanford is really reaching here. His hidden communists are kind of laughable, and the whole story with the female KGB agent and the homeless lawyer lady are goofy. For me it wasn't even a pleasant way to spend a few hours in reading this book. It was more a painful reaction towards remembrances of a better past than a calm relaxation with a familiar other.<br /><br />Pass this book by. Try Denis Lehane's Boston PI series.	2005-07-07
US	51140190	R3UT0XCY83W3VN	0812575180	710542546	Vengeance: A Lew Fonesca Mystery (Lew Fonesca Novels)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	the second book in this series is much better	Kaminsky is a writer of whom I have read quite a bit of what he has written. I always enjoy picking up one of his Russian Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov 87th precinct Ed McBain knock off genre books. But like the 87th precinct work, they are nothing overly special. Kaminsky has written several books of a few other series' as well. They are pretty good, but again just a pleasant way to pass a few hours. What surprised me about Lew Fonesca (the protagonist here) is that I really got into this character and was enthralled by this series in a way that I had yet to be regarding Kaminsky's writing. The first Fonesca book that I read and was enraptured over was not Vengeance, it was Retribution. And now, that I have read Vengeance I just have this to say about the book. It is not very good, and it compares unfavorably to its sequel.<br /><br />I would totally skip Vengeance and start right in on Retribution. Forget that Vengeance is even out there. You don't really need it to enjoy the rest of the series. One thing that I think takes both of these books down a couple of notches is the character Adele. If you have read these books you will know whom I am talking about. In Vengeance she runs away from home to take up a career as a whore and be abused by her estranged father. What the heck? Sounds kind of implausible. But in Retribution she then destroys manuscripts of a great writer and everyone sympathizes with her. Why? I really really loathe Adele in a way that I seldom do towards even the evildoers.	2005-07-07
US	51140190	R3OHJPUA7G2S3I	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book is perfection unto itself	This is not an overly hard-hitting book. Nor is it filled with magnificent prose. What this book is on the other hand is a remarkably unique visionary and elegant reworking of the traditional sleuth mystery.<br /><br />This is a slow book in many regards. The pace set by Alexander McCall Smith is one of quiet reflection. The story bounces back and forth through time and thus fleshes out vividly the character of Precious Ramotswe. Other than a few hard-boiled cases like Matthew Scudder, and one or two Agatha Christie descendents like MC Beaton's Agatha Raisin, I can't think of many other characters that rival Ramostwe in depth. You will be sucked right into a wonderful world and I promise, you will find a side of Africa that you might not have been aware of.<br /><br />The story itself here is a little unusual. When I say that, I mean that it is not linear. It does not follow a plot from start to finish in one grand swoop. Instead what you have here are a series of mysteries undertaken and solved by our protagonist. Also, as I said before, liberal remembrances are interlaced. Note that none of the individual mysteries are really very top shelf. The problems are not those of end of the world or even of deathly peril. Instead you are lead down a bumpy road that I think will offer you more satisfaction than you might believe possible.	2005-07-05
US	51140190	R3QOKKZJITHORA	0812543262	584815540	Relic (Pendergast, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The best Preston/Child book so far	This is the best Lincoln Child/Douglas Preston book out there. I have read all of their books and have either been on the edge of my seat in suspense or on the floor groaning due to the ham fisted nature of their often-inglorious writing. One thing that I don't think I will ever be capable of, (no matter how much fun these books are to read) is give these authors a five star review. The writing here is quick and painless, these are like the 1940's movie serials, these books are meant to be tossed aside after providing a few moments of succor.<br /><br />One of the things that make The Relic so dang good is that this is the first in a series of books that is quickly becoming quite large. Here you will meet a cast of characters that wander in and out of the author duo's stories. The one common denominator for the most part will become Agent Pendergast, a mysterious southern gentleman. One of the things that make the rest of the books in this series so frustrating is Agent Pendergast. He becomes such a caricature of himself in further books that it becomes a little nauseating. The other protagonists also become too precious to the authors and little development character wise occurs further along.<br /><br />What I would love is for Preston and Child to abandon this series now that it is petering out. The Relic was great, and so are a few others they have penned here. But his best books after Relic are the stand-alone works. It would be nice also to see them try to break the very Hollywood style plots they come up with over and over again.	2005-07-04
US	51140190	R2UXEX4LA7ARPE	0312971540	132522712	Monsoon (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	pretty darn good	Monsoon, by Wilber Smith is a very taught swashbuckler by any means. It is sweeping in its epic arc, the characters are very likeable, and the writing is engrossing. What bothers me is that all three of the Smith books in this Courtney family trilogy seem to be the same. Its like Smith took the fine plot from the first book, used it again on the next generation in the second, and then tiredly, once again did the same in the third. It's a little vexing for one such as myself to have read all three of these back to back and be confronted by such a pitiless lack of imagination on the author's part.<br /><br />One of the overwhelming feelings I think you will walk away from Monsoon with is that of a period epic being crossed with a Bruce Willis `Dye Hard' movie. Smith really layers on the action and sets it up well. Adventures abound in Monsoon and unfold in unexpected ways. This book is a really good escapist novel. It might be a little light in both the prose and enlightenment departments, but beyond that it is difficult to berate.<br /><br />Perhaps the only other author who has written along these lines that I have enjoyed more is Raphael Sabatini. Sabatini is an author who wrote in the 20's and 30's and presented the world with such masterpieces as Scaramouch. You might want to check this or one of his other books out.	2005-07-04
US	51140190	R33IGAHZRRAL8E	0812540360	871471826	Retribution: A Lew Fonesca Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	almost perfect	Kaminsky really surprised me with this book. I have read quite a few of his Russian police mysteries and enjoyed them for what they are. I kind of feel like his Rostnikov books are akin to McBain's 87th precinct crime novels and that both of these series are great in their own way, but nothing spectacular. With Retribution however, Kaminsky takes a step in an entirely new direction. This book takes on an entirely new feel from his Rostnikov books. Lew Fonesca is a gritty protagonist reminiscent of good noir films and Lawrence Block's Scudder character. The cast of characters surrounding and interacting with Fonesca is well fleshed out and done so in a manner you only find with the best mystery writers.<br /><br />My only beef with Retribution is how Kaminsky wrapped up this book. The solutions to the crimes were a little to pat and easily come by. His characters fall apart a little and become typical of the genre. But the first two thirds of this book are solid gold and will satisfy anyone looking for a modern day Dashiel Hammett. I did not like the character Adele here, I wanted to slap her around a bit. Her reason's for destroying the works here are very petty and I thought that if anything she deserved punishment rather than the sympathy of Lew.<br /><br />Regardless of the endings somewhat disappointing preciousness and somewhat silly answers, Kaminsky does a fine job over all here. I did not want the book to end and am about to jump in my car and find the rest of this series' books. I think you will feel the same as I about this book and just want to urge you on. Enjoy.	2005-07-03
US	51140190	R2KHT5GMW1K3PX	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	2	1	2	N	N	No where near Pratchett's best	Look, not every Pratchett Disc World book is a five star read. Pratchett seems to approach every new book from a different angle. And because he does so, some of his books will make you roll on the ground in laughter while others will satisfy jaded fantasy readers with interesting ideas. `Equal Rites' on the other hand is a pretty simple book that was not very well put together and is written at a grade school reading level. I don't know what sort of audience Pratchett is after, he seems to skip around in so many directions that maybe it is not a concern for him who his audience is for a particular book. But if you are just getting into the series, this might be a book that you could pass up and come back to at a later time if at all.<br /><br />The plot is kind of deadening. Pratchett kept inferring what would happen through hundreds of little hints and thus expunging any surprises. Not that there would have been any surprises because this is the sort of story that you will have encountered numerous times in the past. The laughter in comparison to some of his other books is missing, gone is the `Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy,' zany-ness that was so appealing in say, the `Color of Magic.' Lastly, why did Eskarina need to be taught in any case? She seems to have known more about magic that any wizard could have taught her before the long trip occurred.<br /><br />This is a disaster of a book in comparison to other Pratchett's. I really do suggest that you pass on this one. Harry Potter is much better than this. Also, you might want to try the author Alice Hoffman and her book `Practical Magic'. This is more adult in nature, and is a very satisfying read.	2005-07-02
US	51140190	R12G66KG85GV6K	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	4	4	N	N	what a fun read this is	I am so glad that I finally picked up Pratchett and started to read this long series. I don't know why I never felt an urge to read Pratchett before. If you read a lot you might hit a point where you are bemoaning the fact that you have read all of the good authors out there. And then you will pick up a book and unexpectedly set forth on a whole new landscape. Now when I look back at moments where I was finding difficulty in discovering new authors to plunder, I only wish that someone had pointed me in Pratchett's direction.<br /><br />This series is very much like the much more widely read `Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy'... only better. I was laughing out loud time and again as I flipped through these pages. And in the boundaries of this genre (humorous fantasy), I can't think of an author being able to top what lies before you if you have yet to read these books.<br /><br />The reason I did not give this book five stars lies in the fact that I don't think that `The Color of Magic' manages to pass muster against other authors whom leave more of a wake in their passage. George RR Martin is an author who has just completed the fourth in a series of fantasy novels that will just blow your mind away. They are not humorous. The heft of Martin's series emotionally and plot wise makes a small book like `Color of Magic' pale slightly in comparison. But that aside, this is a book that I would heartily recommend. Enjoy.	2005-07-02
US	51140190	RDJ1EPVRDY97C	0399151516	261821914	Reckless Abandon: A Stone Barrington Novel	Books	1	5	6	N	N	this book will leave a very bad taste in your mouth	Reading a Stewart Woods book makes me wonder about myself. You see, when I first started picking up the Stone Barrington books a decade ago, I kind of enjoyed them. Now I just don't know if I have either grown as a reader, and these books were always really bad, or if it is Woods' fault in that his writing style has devolved to the point where it is no different than gibberish.<br /><br />This is a goofy cornball book if there ever was one. It totally reminds me of the 1980's TV shows where the star of one would make an appearance on another in a guest position. Its like Simon and Simon appearing on Magnum PI for a week. Here Stone Barrington meets up with Holly Barker. These are two characters from two of Wood's series. In the end, this book is no better than the throw away drivel that came out of 1980's cop shows in the first place. The book is nothing more than a painful reading exercise if you have any respect for your intellect. What really makes me sad is that the reading public-at-large constantly place Woods' work near the top of the bestseller lists.<br /><br />I beg of you to save your money and dearly beloved brain cells. Avoid this book at all costs and count your self-lucky that you were forewarned here and had a chance to back out peacefully. If you have liked his books and want something similar, I recommend the early Prey novels by John Sanford. They get old also, but the first few are really good in comparison to Reckless Abandon.	2005-07-01
US	51140190	RBE9N4IV2C1YV	0449006905	998359614	The Prosecution	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Feels like a fine book met the Texas Chainsaw Massacre	It's a real shame that a few inconsistencies and a tendency to hurry on the part of the author end up destroying an otherwise pretty decent courtroom mystery. From the beginning you will note Buffa's writing style lean towards a militaristic editing hand. Only Buffa manages to knock out huge swaths of plot that would be imperative in supporting this novel. Its very frustrating to leap twice in one book from a murder suspect being apprehended to a trial with what feels like no more than a couple of days passing meantime. Of course it should take months and months to reach the trial point with endless investigation along the way. Not here. Secondly, Joseph (the protagonist) is presented to us as the penultimate lawyer. But it does not come across that he is so here. Instead not once, but twice he wins his case on unsupported writing via Buffa's hand. I mean, when you read this... if you do, think about Christine's testimony in court that sends Goodwin away. Why did she testify? There was no need whatsoever.<br /><br />Beyond all of my bellyaching, there is a lot to like about Buffa. His characters are enjoyable to read and the story, regardless of all of its flaws, is fun to read and is unusual. I would try my hardest if we were in the same room to stop you from picking up this book and wasting your time. I think that Buffa might have an interesting book in him. It is just that this is not it.	2005-07-01
US	51140190	R126ONR99LOXY	0002226049	157189401	The Last Frontier	Books	2	2	5	N	N	not near MacLean's best. I'd say skip this one	I really enjoyed `When 8 Bells Toll,' and thought that `The Guns of Navarone' was pretty decent. `Last Frontier' on the other hand was a pretty lack luster effort by MacLean. The book just jumps right into the middle of the action, without preamble or the opportunity to be introduced to the protagonist. For the first sixty or so pages I was wondering when the flash back would occur and inform the reader why Reynolds (the protagonist) was in the situation he was in. In the end however, this book was not really about anything other than two things. One, a stream of action sequences that feels a bit tame by today's standards (after all, this book was written 50 years ago). And secondly, MacLean uses this book as an opportunity to lecture the reader on world events of his day. MacLean really goes off on a peace tirade over and over again here. Its kind of funny to be reading this so far removed from its time and look back at how Communism and the Cold War were being seen by the west.<br /><br />The worst thing about this book is that it really felt like just a bunch of action sequences strung together with out careful plotting. The good guys constantly get out of scrapes in what can only be viewed as ludicrous maneuvering on the part of MacLean. Time after time, Reynolds and his band get into terrible trouble only to be rescued from the clutches of the most terrible police force ever created. I was wondering towards the end why this band of fellows just didn't head into Russia and end the cold war Rambo style.<br /><br />I would not recommend this book to anyone. Even a MacLean fan. Maybe I would point someone interested in this time period only to be startled a bit by Communist references, but that would be all.	2005-07-01
US	51140190	R3PL2AONX1ZRQ7	0743410165	62211306	The Will	Books	1	5	10	N	N	god awful	`The Will' was just plain painful. I don't often review books unless I have read the entire tomb from cover to cover. The only time I might put in my two cents worth is in a case like this. I really truly did attempt to get into the writing and story here, picking the book up before dropping it again in disgust. Eventually I made it a little over 100 pages in and by this point I realized that the author was intent upon his course and there was nothing left to do but abandon ship.<br /><br />Booklist said that this work was on par with Grisham. And you know what, it is. I felt like Arvin was weaving a Christian tale of the little guy prevailing and finding himself again against the backdrop of his old hometown. The voice here was not even really Arvin's, but instead a sickly version of a Grisham mimic. Arvin creates a very motley cast of characters dealing with their own inner demons in such a false manner that it made me kind of sick. If people in rural Kansas are really so paper thin and stupidly moral as they are portrayed here in this book, I say lets nuke em before they cross pollinate with the rest of our country.<br /><br />I shudder. This book was a nightmare for any self respecting fiction lover.	2005-06-28
US	51140190	R1JQ2MUTCK4DVZ	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	3	2	6	N	N	a decent childrens book	On one superficial level this is a pretty good book. I say this because it is a real heart-wrenching bit of story telling. I really felt for the family and the kid protagonist here. Also the story has several very clever manipulations surrounding its construction. The author throws in antidotes left and right, filling out an otherwise very simple tale. I have to say that as I put this book down I was thinking hard about what it was that got to me here. And in the end I came to the conclusion that Mark Haddon had really offered up nothing more than a well-concealed story that was really insultingly gimmicky.<br /><br />I was a little offended at Haddon's willingness to time and again delve into the surefire treasure trove of movie of the week catch-alls. What could have been a pretty good off kilter mystery if he had gone a different rout with the story becomes a Black Stallion style triumph of the will. The story line is no more complex than any of the four or five Rocky films or a 6th grade level reading book. Maybe Haddon did intend his audience to be a slightly older school child, but his subject matter I believe is best contemplated by an adult with empathy.<br /><br />Ahh, this is a jumble of conflictions here in the book. I was not a big fan of the books resolution or its over all plot direction as you can tell. But to give Haddon his props, this is a very well written character study. I would skip this book if I were you, there are several others floating out in the universe waiting for you to open them up. And quite a few will in the long run be more satisfying reads than `The Curious Incident.'	2005-06-28
US	51140190	R3DYHU3NMZ81MO	0671567829	195903904	The Bookman's Wake (Cliff Janeway Novels)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	with stipulations, this is a knock out of a great book	Everything about this book is perfect... or one could say that if you were to look at it under a certain light. What came to mind time after time while I was reading `Bookman's Wake' was that film by Jean Cocteau `Orpheus.' I say that because in the movie Cocteau creates a surreal world where Poets are akin to rock stars, crowds of beautiful young ladies cling to successful poets outside of cafes. In `Bookman's Wake' Dunning creates a similar world where a specialty book publisher attains the same heights as the poets in `Orpheus.' Not that it would be a bad thing if this were really so, but it just strikes me as preposterous in today's world, and I had a hard time swallowing it as a focal point of this novel. I myself enjoy collecting contemporary firsts and understand a little of the book collecting world. Specialty/fine press publication books are kind of goofy novelties in my opinion and just my predisposition towards this medium left me a little jaded towards this book. You can find an actual master at arionpress.com. A place located in San Francisco, where you can get a tour and check out some truly remarkable books.<br /><br />OK, with all of that aside, I have to say that everything else about this book really is perfect. It is one of the very best mysteries that I have read. It doesn't pull punches, doesn't go over the top, and it is more of a cerebral journey than a brain dead thriller. The character Cliff Janeway is a pretty interesting guy. And this is not the first in a series of books. I say that because usually you will get most of the character development in the first book. I have not yet read the first book, but was still sucked in by the protagonists deep character. The story does feel like a good Raymond Chandler book as some other reviewer put it. But if you have really read Chandler, you will see that it is not a rip off of that long dead hard boiled writer. Instead it is a modern homage of Chandler in many ways.<br /><br />Pick up this book. I totally recommend it. I have read hundreds of mysteries and maybe only one or two were as good as this one.ook. I totally recommend it. I have read hundreds of mysteries and maybe only one or two were as good as this one. <br />	2005-06-27
US	51140190	R25JTC1UPM6VKU	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	3	5	N	N	might be a five star read if you read this	Look, I am going to give you a little tip on how to read this book. You might not want to hear it if you are utterly convinced that you will finish it before you start. But if you are unsure whether or not you want to read this book, just take a moment and read this. I wish that someone had given me this advice on how to approach `Paranoia,' if so, I might have enjoyed reading it even more than I did.<br /><br />First of all, I am not going to give away the ending. But... there is a twist or two at the end that makes up for a long build up. I say this because the protagonist in this story is insufferable. I had to put this book aside several times because I was so upset with the idiocy of this character that I wanted to reach in and throttle him. I think that the story could have been constructed in a slightly better manner so that the reader would not feel such apathy towards the guy telling the tale. The author, Joseph Finder, does a very good job at building up a sense of place and creating an unusual plot line. In fact, the plot is so fresh that I think if you are an avid mystery/thriller reader, you will be excited by not being confronted with the same old same old. To pull this story off, Finder needs to be given a little leg room. I have to admit that I turned to the last pages in order to find out what would happen... to see if this sometimes insufferable character would end up in a situation in that I could at least respect him a little. I wish I had not. That is what I am trying to tell you. Read the book, and I promise you an ending that is well done.<br /><br />I sort of think that Finder is an author almost on par with Harlan Coben plot wise. And though I was frustrated with Finders character here, I still appreciated him more than Coben's protagonists. And the end here is far superior to any Coben book yet written. So, if you enjoy Coben (truly a thriller writer at the top of this genre) you will like Finder. Finder is a writer with a sense of justice, and a touch of Noir that is very refreshing.stice, and a touch of Noir that is very refreshing.  <br />	2005-06-25
US	51140190	R1RSBYGRXOH7GK	0786709421	371420800	Bleeders: A "Nameless Detective" Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	only 4 stars might be a little hard on this great book	This is a very fine detective novel. It's a bit of a throw back in that it is in essence an old time gumshoe private eye tracking down an elusive quarry. The manner in which Pronzini unfolds his plot here is unexpected in a very satisfying way, while at the same time sophisticated in its delivery. The author that comes to mind most similar in style to this book is Lawrence Block and his Matthew Scudder series before it started to fall apart. Both Pronzini and Block have the gift of being able to create a scenario that is bigger in scope than your run of the mill end of the world contemporary thriller. These authors do this while presenting the reader with a simple elegant story. Bleeders is very satisfying indeed.<br /><br />What amazes me most about Bleeders is that this is the twenty-something book in the series. It is obvious that Pronzini has complete control of his medium here. He is not selling you a half-hearted effort based on past success. I don't think that I have picked up one of his nameless detective novels before. I plan on reading them all now. Unlike every other author of a mystery series I have yet to come across one that has sustained such a firm grasp on excellence as Pronzini has with Bleeders. Maybe you could say that about Ed McBain and his 87th precinct books. Most authors fall into predictable story lines that would pale in comparison to the earlier work. If Pronzini has fallen from his high horse, if even a little, his first nameless detective novels must be something else.<br /><br />Hey, pick up this book, you will enjoy it.	2005-06-24
US	51140190	R2GFMZAB8A7MEX	0553270257	912651978	Lincoln's Dreams	Books	4	6	10	N	N	I would start with another Willis if you have not yet read her	Lincolns Dreams was interesting. I have come to a conclusion about Connie Willis that might not make sense to you if you have not yet come to appreciate books on tape. I have now read pretty much every work that Willis has published. Every book that I have read has been a little dry, a little slow, and the plot just sludge's forwards at a creeping pace. I have found it very difficult to actually enjoy the nuance Willis employs through her characters. The main thing is that I am constantly attempting to hurry through to push the plot along, which is not really what a Willis book is about. More than any other author I have noticed, Willis is the perfect author to read slowly and succinctly in a spoken out loud manner. By treating her this way you will be rewarded with some of the best subtle character interactions around. So if you find yourself frustrated by Willis when your holding one of her books in your hands, before you give up on her you might want to find her on tape first.<br /><br />Sadly, I don't think that Lincoln's Dreams is on tape. Its not her best work anyways. I would totally start with `To Say Nothing of the Dog.' This is an amazing experience. Even if you have read the book before, you will get a lot of new insight into a complicated tale by taking this advice. Her other works on tape are a short story collection and `Doomsday Book.' Try these and you wont be disappointed.<br /><br />To get `To Say Nothing...' on tape, try your library. I bet they wont have a copy, but they can still get it for you at most likely no or a minimal charge through an interlibrary loan program. Ask them at the desk about this and someone will help you out if you haven't done this before. Its easy. And if you enjoy the experience of `To Say Nothing...' half as much as I did, you will be hooked on the medium.<br /><br />Dang, I haven't even really talked about `Lincoln's Dreams' yet. It's sort of confusing, the story line gets a little muddled at the end. I re-read the last couple of chapters to see if I missed something, but I don't think that I did. It kind of reminded me of Murakami's<br /><br />`Wind up Bird Chronicle's' ending, a book that was equally confusing in its conclusion. You will totally see signs of Willis' future genius in this book.the last couple of chapters to see if I missed something, but I don't think that I did. It kind of reminded me of Murakami's  <br />`Wind up Bird Chronicle's' ending, a book that was equally confusing in its conclusion. You will totally see signs of Willis' future genius in this book.   <br />	2005-06-23
US	51140190	R3CL4TYCW5E9QK	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	4	3	4	N	N	one of King's very best	I have read just about everything that Stephen King has written and I can only think of a couple of short stories like 'the Mist', and maybe just one book 'Salem's Lot' that I enjoyed more than Carrie.  Primarily the reason I enjoyed this book so much is that it is a real departure from his later day formula writing. This is one of Kings very first books and it is a little raw in comparison to his later work 'Shaw Shank', 'Bag of Bones', but in many ways that rough quality adds to the books appeal.<br /><br />Of course, even if you haven't read the book yet (like myself until a couple of days ago), it will almost be impossible to be surprised by the ending. Who amongst us has not seen Sissy Spasek drenched in blood at her prom, it's an iconic American image. But that aside, this is a very enjoyable book because it really gets close to the 'horror' label that King has been slapped with his entire career. I can always get into a King book because it stumbles around the edge of terror, but am pretty much always disappointed because of his insane need to offer up a very happy ending.  I'm sure that King has sold twenty times the amount of books that he would have had he continued on this edgier path. But I often think of what could have been had he been a little more daring. Its kind of like Elvis ending up singing Blue Hawaii in a Las Vegas night club when he had started off as such an edgy charismatic youngster.<br /><br />Anyways, I highly recommend this book if you like King at all. If you have yet to read much King and are wondering where to start out, try 'Salem's Lot' as a novel, or even better, a collection of his short stories like 'Skeleton Crew.'	2005-06-22
US	51140190	R2F5P4VZ8FA7FK	000611962X	821995681	The Guns of Navarone	Books	3	3	4	N	N	very predictable	I thought that the 'Guns of Navarone' was ok. This is only the second MacLean book that I have read. But already I have to say that it is not the best Maclean book that I could recommend. In my opinion` When Eight Bells Toll' was a more engrossing tale in that the plot constantly shifted directions. `Navarone' on the other hand is very linear, from point A to point B without a deviation along the way.<br /><br />The characters in Navarone are not very well pieced together. If you take a good hard look at them, they are very generic. But this is besides the point because MacLean is writing a thriller, and one rarely ever sees the protagonist in more a superficial light in any thriller. After all this is not high literature but instead an escapist bit of fluff.<br /><br />So if we were to judge this book merely on the merits of the story, you will have to admit that it is very predictable in all ways except where the main characters just barely sneak out with their skins. Maybe this book is very dated and one can feel undercurrents of unintended humor sliding into the pages as our preconceived notions come to war with the idiotic blind luck the team has upon occasion.	2005-06-21
US	51140190	R23R6XP72KZ1QN	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	2	8	11	N	N	I really don't understand why Palahniuk gets such hype	this book was very mediocre at best. I think that the author covers up the poor execution of his novel here with graphic language. I have nothing against an author shocking a reader, but here it is just slathered on so thickly. And its not just that he uses words that will get censored out if I were to post them on Amazon, but primarily it is Palahniuk's desire to jump from one excruciating scene to the next with little plot or authorship tying them together. The novel just is not very well pasted together. I felt like he was trying to write a novel ala Richard Russo. By this I mean that Palahniuk strings together hundreds of antidotes in order to come away with an interesting story. I also thought several times about Russel Banks Rule of the Bone while reading this. I kept thinking that Banks pulled off what Palahniuk might have attempted.<br /><br />I heard some good things about Haunted, and am looking forwards to reading the latest offering by this author. But I do suggest that you might skip this book.	2005-06-18
US	51140190	R1BUWY74JJ5KKE	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	I think this is the best Grisham since the Firm	Being Gresham's best work since his blockbuster the 'Firm' is not very high praise for a book. I don't think that he really is very much of a writer. There is something about his style though that makes for a pleasant way to pass the time of day away. The sheer ease of which his prose settles you down is pleasurable.<br /><br />What is amiss here is that Grisham really does not know what he is doing here. This is unlike anything he has yet written. It feels like a Robert Ludlum book in many ways. But Grisham proves his naysayers correct in that that this book is a very shoddy production. I was never sold from the very beginning that anything that occurs is in hindsight very convincing. I never bought that several nations would want to kill the protagonist. Nor am I buying that he would have A-been released from prison, B-been set up in the manner he was, and C- basically that anything here would have been plausible. I mean come on now, why did Grisham spend half the book teaching the guy Italian? It really never matters that he learned it. Why did Grisham set the story in Bolognia? I really think that it was only because it was a touristy spot. You can take on any aspect of the book and just pull it apart.<br /><br />Many times I found myself wondering if Grisham were trying to write a romance or a thriller. The components just don't fit together. And the generic protagonist that Grisham offers us is just so implausible in the role set out for him that it is laughable. Not once did he come across as anything other than a really nice guy. He was a plastic toy manipulated by Grisham in the same way a little kid plays with his Star Wars action figures.<br /><br />All of that aside, I did read the book quickly and did not hurry myself through a few meandering pages. The book will hook you and then fill you up like a plate of really bad for you junk food.	2005-06-18
US	51140190	R24A9VAN6NB61I	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Quincunx is as great as this book is bad	I think that Palliser wrote one of the finest genre books of the latter 20th century in Quincunx. Every single page was a plot twist of sorts and will leave you breathless if you have yet to pick it up. But just as Palliser wrote such a complex book in Quincunx, 'The Unburried' is manifestly its very opposite. I really cant well describe this book because what the plot was about I really dont know. 'Unburried is so very slow and tedious the only way I could use this as a recommendation is as an insomnia remedy.<br /><br />I really don' t think that the two reviewers chosen to be 'Spotlight Reviewers' actually read the book. I perused these reviews and was shocked at how different their opinions were to mine. They must have read the dust jacket and pieced together a review off of that. They are wrong in that this book is very very dull. Read 'Quincunx' and enjoy it, but leave this one be.	2005-06-18
US	51140190	R17006FMAAV5UF	1400062500	585019467	The Egyptologist: A Novel	Books	1	10	21	N	N	terrible	I just want to say that the only reason I picked this book up is because I came across two reviews here on Amazon that said this book was amazing. But it is not. This book plods on and on and has absolutely no merits other than the author's decent writing style.<br /><br />The first half of the book pits two characters against each other, the Harvard Egyptologist and an Australian private eye. Both of these characters write in the first person and come across as insufferable. Phillips did not allow for the reader to employ empathy towards any of his characters in this book. Even worse than that, other characters are introduced and are just as ugly as the first two. Only the last two characters hold any interest, they appear in the final pages of the book. But by then you will be looking only for some reason as to why the author wrote this disaster in the first place and will be left with no humor in order to appreciate them.<br /><br />The worst thing is that you will understand exactly where the story is heading from the first few pages. The detective and Egyptologist unfold their stories very slowly, and you as a reader will be waiting for a twist. It never comes. I am sure that you will have the essence of the ending several hundred pages before the characters do themselves. This is no way to write a thriller, or a mystery, or any other book.	2005-06-18
US	51140190	R39UFB3ZXBRQ4N	0345464710	904659248	The Murder Artist: A Thriller	Books	3	10	12	N	N	There is a lot to like about this book	I really enjoyed how this book started. It stands out against other thrillers in that the protagonist undergoes quite a bit of stress as events pertaining to his children's kidnapping unfold. John Case really wallops his character Alex Callahan by throwing the system at him. The police, his wife, and the media are on his tail over the disappearance. For the first half of the book you will be on your seat, captivated by an author tweaking this genre in new directions. But then it starts to fall apart. Alex follows up on leads and the story fades from a dynamite nail biting suspense novel into a run of the mill-seen it all before mystery.<br /><br />Maybe if you haven't read too many thrillers you will enjoy this book all of the way through. But Alex is not really fleshed out as a character. You will not be left with any idea of who he is as a person. At least he does not posses any superhuman attributes and remains an  `everyman,' so you will be able to relate with the character. And because this book is not a character study, it has to rely wholly upon the plot. So that is why it is just such a shame that the novel sheds all of the gripping earlier structure that Case built up and instead becomes a very typical step by step process. Another thing is that Case often writes in a manner that leads the reader to understand what Alex should be doing long before he does. This occurs quite often in the second half of the book and I don't want to give away the plot. You are left screaming at the character to ask this or do that, and he usually does, but not without long deliberation.<br /><br />Lastly, I just want to recommend a couple of authors that you might enjoy much more than this effort by Case. Harlan Coben has written a couple of really good thrillers recently. Try one of his later ones without the character Myron Bolitar, and skip `Innocent' his most recent book. I guarantee that it will be similar in style to `Murder Artist', only better. An author I like even more than Coben is Denis Lehane, try `Mystic River' or any of his series that deals with a private eye duo in Boston.like even more than Coben is Denis Lehane, try `Mystic River' or any of his series that deals with a private eye duo in Boston.  <br />	2005-06-17
US	51140190	RVZPZD4M6AGVK	0942324196	441832866	The Royal Art Lodge: Ask the Dust	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More great art in here than you can shake a stick at	If you want this book you might have to go onto EBAY or pay a bit extra for it. If you are thinking of getting it and have the opportunity to do so, but it is a little on the high side of reasonableness, get it anyways. This book is one of the best catalogs that I have ever seen. Inside is a nice long interview with the Art Lodge players. Also you will find a slew of drawings that kind of remind me of the best of Hockney's work. Hundreds of great drawings.	2005-06-16
US	51140190	R3E7AKRSL5258B	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I thought this was a fun read	For some strange reason I thought that this was the first book in the series. I think that it was listed so on a page here at Amazon. And so I started this long series with the 28th book. But you know what, I still enjoyed it very much and was left wanting more. I don't think that I needed other books in the series in order to place a context exactly for what Pratchett offers up here.<br /><br />All in all `Night Shift' was a pretty interesting read. I think that fantasy/science fiction allows for the author to be more creative than other genre writers. Thus Pratchett delves into a scenario and plot structure that while being in essence simple and accessible to younger readers also reads as original and fresh. The story was a fun time puzzle with interesting characters.<br /><br />I would not stop anyone from picking this book up.	2005-06-15
US	51140190	R1PUAHZ5TF377X	0312989385	991869571	The Janson Directive	Books	3	5	6	N	N	a fun but weightless read	This book that was released after Ludlum died truly feels like a real Ludlum. I was wondering if it would have the same nuances of his other books completed when he was still living or be entirely in the voice of whomever pieced it together post Ludlum. The only slight difference between Ludlum's earlier work and this is the extensive detail placed upon military weaponry and background. It also feels like Ludlum in that the plot is really pretty silly when you get down to its bare bones. I think I have read a dozen Ludlum's in my time and all but the first Bourne book deal with a cabal or figurehead intent upon taking over the world. Nothing is new here. Once the story starts to congeal into a structure where the reader begins to understand what is going on, very predictable plot threads start to come to life.<br /><br />My main complaints here are the dozens of times that Janson escapes getting shot or killed by the best of the worlds hired killers. Bullets are constantly narrowly missing the guy or he is rescued from out of left field by his friendly version of the Calvary. The evil dude here is so predictable when it comes time for him to enter the book that it was groan-able. So in essence, this is a pretty stupid book. If you take offense to my calling this a stupid book, I recommend that you try some thrillers by other authors with more capable hands. It's obvious that you have not yet read enough of this genre. Some early Tom Clancy books are definitely better, or Jim Harrison and Dashiell Hammett's work. But I think that you might enjoy Denis Lehane's books even more if you give him a chance. Start with Mystic River and go from there.<br /><br />Ludlum is always enjoyable on a certain level, and if you are able to suspend disbelief and work around characters that show absolutely zero personality, this would be a fine book. I sort of think of Ludlum as writing comic books for adults and there is nothing wrong with that from time to time.	2005-06-14
US	51140190	R2595GTNHCIPZ7	0553199404	29300416	The Aquitaine Progression	Books	3	10	17	N	N	This is one of Ludlums better books	I think that this is one of Ludlum's best books. He never became an author of great prose or managed to build a legacy that will stand the test of time. The style of writing he used was on the cutting edge of popular fiction in its day, but it already feels dated. Authors that have been influenced by Ludlum have taken his thrillers and managed to push the envelope several steps beyond `The Bourne Supremacy' or `The Aquitaine Progression.' His progeny includes Brad Metzer, Harlan Coben, and Tom Clancy to name just a few. These three and many more are writing ala Ludlum only in a more taught and confident style. It is glaring, the deficiencies of Ludlum, when you compare his books to his contemporaries or writers of generations that came before him such as Jim Harrison or Dashiel Hammett. The stiffness of Ludlum's writing, and the weaknesses of his characters individual natures are apparent in relation.<br /><br />The reason I say that this is one of Ludlum's best books is that it is more complicated that most of his other works. The plot takes a good third of the book to develop, and I have to say that it put me to sleep several times getting through those pages. But after the story line is in place, the novel just takes off and you are brought along for a very suspenseful ride that does not let up until the very end. The story is a little goofy. It's very much like any other Ludlum novel if you have read the author before (The world is threatened by a Cabal of unseen manipulators, very James Bondish). But if you are able to suspend your grounding in reality and soak up this fantastic tale, the complex nature of the plot will entertain you.<br /><br />Really the only reason I am giving the book only three stars is because I think that Ludlum is worthy of only three. He is a pretty mediocre author, and if you are offended by my judgment of him, you have not read enough of this genre yet.	2005-06-12
US	51140190	R24YIO24AQCLGW	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	13	13	N	N	this is a great book	I have read three Russo books, and all three of them have left me stunned. This is mainly due to the author's prowess. His strength is in dealing with the intricacies of a complex novel, shifting positions like a prizefighter. If you have taken any literature appreciation class you might have studied Moby Dick. I can't think of a better author to equate Russo's style to than Melville. He shifted from one character to another as well as writing in a shifting manner that is still inspiring today. Russo, from one chapter to the next explores his characters effortlessly in a similar shifting manner that keeps the story constantly fresh. Empire Falls is different than Straight Man or Nobodies Fool, the other two books of his that I have read. With Empire Falls, Russo steps back from his protagonist a little more than in the other two, wrapping the entire town into his tale, including it as if it were a character as well. Also, in comparison to the other two books that I mentioned above, a grand sweeping arc of time is considered in this book, which makes this feel like an epic instead of the intimate nature of the others. What occurs is that the result is nothing other than the author showing his mental muscle. But this is not done in a brash or egotistical manner. He steps into a new cadence, a different sense of humor, and a narration style that is tuned to a perfection not better than, but different than his other works.<br /><br />From the moment I put down the first of his books that I read a couple of weeks ago, I have been struck by the idea that I have been taken on ride by a master of his craft. Of the thousands of books I have read in my adult years, only a few other authors have maintained such a sure sense of perfection over every work they wrestled with. The only other author that comes to mind with a skill approaching Russo's is John Fante, with who book after book the author will leave you in awe.<br /><br />I like to find either small or large issues with in a stories plot to quibble with, and in Empire Falls, the only aspects that deign a mention are that the silent character Tick, the daughter of the protagonist, befriends is very underdeveloped, I thought that Russo might have had his reasons for doing so, but that the portrayal of this character in such a manner was underwhelming and safe rout to follow by Russo. The lack of development does make sense in that the character is essential to the surprise in the end, but I feel that this person was very very thin. Also, several plot threads are left ultimately unresolved.<br /><br />But those are minor quibbles, read this book, enjoy and then relish what a well-crafted novel this is.plot to quibble with, and in Empire Falls, the only aspects that deign a mention are that the silent character Tick, the daughter of the protagonist, befriends is very underdeveloped, I thought that Russo might have had his reasons for doing so, but that the portrayal of this character in such a manner was underwhelming and safe rout to follow by Russo. The lack of development does make sense in that the character is essential to the surprise in the end, but I feel that this person was very very thin. Also, several plot threads are left ultimately unresolved.     But those are minor quibbles, read this book, enjoy and then relish what a well-crafted novel this is.	2005-06-11
US	51140190	R28OY1SAZYZZRT	0399152512	901590256	Two-Dollar Bill (Stone Barrington Novels)	Books	1	37	42	N	N	such a very bad book	This book should be called 38 dinners at Elaine's instead of `2 Dollar Bill.' It seems like Stone, Dino, and a slew of other characters are spending every other page entering the restaurant. I feel a little bad trashing this book. The author photo of Stewart Woods shows the face of a man who appears humble and defenseless. But it was so bad, that even a defenseless chap like Woods deserves no sympathy. I am trying to remember earlier Barrington books. I know that I have not enjoyed the last couple of titles in the series. They are getting so outlandish and inconceivable that its like spending some time in the mind of a five year old playing with action figures rather than being led on a taught story under the capable hands of a true suspense writer.<br /><br />`Two Dollar Bill' is probably the worst Barrington novel yet. It is very shoddily pieced together. There is no other way to put it than that Woods has lost his grasp as to what it is to be a genre writer. To start with the ins and outs of the plot are sheer lunacy. The amorphous character that is the namesake for the title is such a mass of conflicting personalities that it is difficult to accredit him with being little more than a device. `Two Dollar Bill' is used at the whim of the author to fit any need at any time in order to further along the story. Its as if he were an idea at the back of Woods mind that never seems to have been fleshed out.<br /><br />Barrington himself has turned into a comic stereotype of his old self and his antics along with his friend's correlates with the old Keystone Cops movies of the silent era. A bunch of bumbling buffoons that belies the very notion of whether or not to take them seriously with out liberal uses of salt.<br /><br />I would entirely pass this book by. Try one of Harlan Coben's earlier books that dose not employ the character of Myron Bolitar. Open up a Denis Lehane book or a Jim Harrison suspense novel. Any of these authors have easily distanced themselves from the dregs of Woods imagination. Save yourself the suffering of having to plow through one page of poorly written prose after another.magination. Save yourself the suffering of having to plow through one page of poorly written prose after another.	2005-06-09
US	51140190	R3UYW9VPCOHZHW	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	darn near perfect	Straight Man is a great book. I feel a little foolish even trying to attempt a review of Russo if only because he is such a great writer of biting sarcasm. His words tease the readers mind with their perfectly worked asides and well-crafted prose. As with his other works, not only the protagonist, but also a slew of peripheral characters comes to life without struggle under Russo's hand. You would be hard pressed to name another author whose world becomes so fully developed as Russo's.<br /><br />I highly recommend this work. I think that Russo might very well be one of a hand full of authors working today that deserve to be considered amongst the foremost practitioners of his craft. The manner of his writing reminds me strongly of Dellilo and Richard Ford. Ford could be seen as a little more trapped in the mind of a single protagonist dealing with inner turmoil and Dellilo as standing in a darker reality than Russo. All three being remarkable authors that are pushing the envelope of fiction in not only a very readable, but satisfactorily rumative direction as well.<br /><br />My only complaint with Straight Man in comparison to my favorite Russo novel, is that the structure of the book is not quite as sturdy as Nobodies Fool. Some very small plot decisions and secondary story lines are a little disjointed and un-clarified. But these are such small matters. I will surely be handing out Russo books as presents to others in the future and whenever I find myself thinking that way about a book or an author, I know that I could have asked for nothing more.	2005-06-09
US	51140190	R3LSUSARXDRCV2	0446614459	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell Series)	Books	1	9	15	N	N	one of the worst books I have ever even tried to read	This is about as stupid a book as you will ever come across. I love to flay a few of my least favorite authors like James Patterson or Dean Koontz every chance I get. These guys do say a few original things every once and a while. Their ideas are sometimes interesting. It's just that these authors have a tendency to end every single novel with a happy and predictable ending that destroys credibility on their parts. I think they do this because their novels sell big time and they are not writing fiction so much as selling a product. Baldacci however is even worse at writing than Koontz or Patterson. Baldacci is from what I have encountered contemporary Americas worst best-selling writer by a long shot. He should not have the audience that he does, and it is a real mystery to me why this trash is so popular.<br /><br />The story starts off with two very unsympathetic characters attempting to come to grips with disasters that they were responsible for on the presidential campaign trail. They work together to find out just what really did happen several years ago when an obnoxious candidate was gunned down in their presence. The story never really takes off and mires itself in stupid conversation and inept problem solving. The characters are as flat and unresolved as can be. And the writing style is sophomoric at best. But above all of this is the ending. The way the mystery resolves itself is out and out laughable.<br /><br />Don't pick up this book, it is very bad and I am sure you will regret it. Try Denis Lehane or Patricia Cornwell instead.	2005-06-07
US	51140190	R3M2CNSJZPDU71	0446615757	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	2	7	9	N	N	sentimental sludge	This is about as bad as writing can get. Reading Baldacci is akin to watching a horrendous train wreck unfold. I don't know why he is such a popular author or why I keep thinking that his books might be interesting. I think that so many authors are writing along similar lines that it becomes confusing whether or not the particular authors work was decent or bad several months after reading his/her previous novel. The Christmas Train however does stick out in ones mind in that it is a departure from Baldacci's more predictable and suffering titles. And because he is taking a step in a new direction for himself, and that the words pass easily by, I decided to give the author a two star rating here, kind of like throwing him a bone for his effort.<br /><br />All of that aside, this is a terrible book. It starts off all sentimental in nature concerned with family values and the mystery of a Christmas train ride. Then it throws in a little mystery and a chance bit of disaster to get the blood roiling. It's so sadly contrived and uninspired. Baldacci is writing for his enormous paychecks and little else. No wonder people just don't read very much, if they pick up a best seller like this and suffer through a few pages, they will hesitate to pick up another book for some time to come.	2005-06-07
US	51140190	R9MNIUDFB1F	0446607711	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	1	1	5	N	N	your head will split open and ooze goop after reading this	All I can say is pass me some aspirin. This is a dozy of a bad novel. As it says on the dust jacket, a Supreme Court law clerk grabs a petition and ends up becoming deceased. Its up to the brother to uncover the truth by finding the real killer who had let a poor black man rot away for a crime he did not commit. At the same time the brother contends with mysterious bad guys out to get him and stop the unearthing of the evidence. Not only does he deal with his family, but his brothers friend, a sexy young law clerk herself and the duplicity on the bench she works for.<br /><br />And that's only the start of the plot.<br /><br />Its really pretty bad, it descends into mired pretensions and goofy resolutions. The characters are so shallow that you are left with little notion of who they are except for a faint nasty after taste over their conceded ways. Baldacci is along with James Patterson and Dean Koontz one of America's worst authors. If you want an author who writes on a similar vein to this, try one of Harlan Coben's last four or so stand alone thrillers with out the character Myron Bolitar in it. Or for a more sophisticated read, look for Denis Lehane, he wrote the amazing Mystic River, but his PI series located in Boston is pretty good as well.	2005-06-07
US	51140190	R3ANQQDDUICMWB	0425201449	950957632	The Body Farm: Scarpetta (Book 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is a great book	As I was reading this I found myself very much disliking the main character, Kay Scarpetta. This is the first book by Cornwell that I have picked up and I found myself again and again wondering how an author could conceive and then involve herself in a protracted series spun around such a disagreeable woman. Not only that, but the other peripheral characters, such as her niece, sister, mother, and old friend Marino all are so awfully self involved and petty that I counted myself lucky that I wasn't friends with any of them. Also intruding into this story quite often was a cultural superiority on the part of Scarpetta that was kind of awful to behold, I wanted to knock her down off of her high peg.<br /><br />And then something amazing started to happen, the story, taught from the beginning and thus worthy of continuing, kept moving along quite nicely. The mystery here was one of the better ones that I have come across, mainly because though it was apparent in whom the murderer was, Cornwell also gave us a couple of other characters who seemed just as likely until the end. I started to find the characters fascinating and unique if only because 99% of authors build up sympathetic or comic book super hero's with out blemish, and here was something new. So I found myself really enjoying this unexpected distasteful journey through the lives of several all too human characters.<br /><br />So all and all, I really have to hand it to Cornwell, she wrote here one of the better mysteries that I have picked up, it is taught and never lets up, and it is very well written. It might not be a masterpiece, but I think that I will recommend it to friends and that is the essence of a five star review if there ever was one. I don't think that I would like Cornwell any more than I do her main character, after all she proudly dedicated this book to one of the most unsavory politicians of our day, Orin Hatch of Utah, but heck, I am sure glad she is around churning out novels and I look forwards to reading more.look forwards to reading more.  <br />	2005-06-06
US	51140190	R3DVW89RWII8SD	0446610933	665759078	Animosity	Books	2	0	0	N	N	this well written book is in the end only BLAH	I was very upset with Lindsey over this book. He managed to write with beautiful prose that created a very evocative sense of place. I felt like I was inside a classic MGM noir flick, watching characters delve towards the seedier side. But aside from the great writing, the plot here in the end became insulting and rather beside the point. Its as if Lindsey, with this book, were not writing a mystery or a thriller but putting up essences of emotions and places under the guise of a genre novel. So what you have here is something trapped in between a Jim Harrison tale that is biting in its glint edged fury and a David Lynch flick. And with Lynch, I am referring to his films as being nothing more than a grand pastiche of emotions or of moving paintings that really have no plot.<br /><br />So this book does not work... try Jim Harrison for a tale that it seems Lindsey finds influence in. All of Harrison's books that I have picked up have been very good, so I don't think that you will be disappointed by any of them. Just skip this book, `Animosity,' and move on to something better.	2005-06-04
US	51140190	R9FSAON757ZPB	074349153X	330260637	All That Remains (Kay Scarpetta Mysteries)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Cornwell should write more Scarpetta books like this	I had not read this book when I made my way through Cornwell's Scarpetta series. So as I came back and filled in the holes by reading this book, I found `All that Remains' to be a refreshing addition to the series. I wonder why Cornwell left this simpler format for the convoluted and over the top serial killer genre of James Patterson in her latter work. This book just works so well in many ways. And because Scarpetta is not taking on a group of mythical Serial Killers spread over several books (check out the last six or seven Scarpetta titles), this book is kind of believable.<br /><br />One thing missing is the intensity that Cornwell develops later in the series when she becomes a more nuanced writer. `All that Remains' never hits the high tone-edge of your seat excitement of say `Black Notice' when it is working well. Another thing missing is the bitter Scarpetta that comes along as life tears her apart later in the series. But that is no big deal, its just odd seeing Cornwell's characters not fully fleshed out.<br /><br />I would recommend this book to anyone with the stipulation that you start with her first in the series and then work your way through all of her books. It's a ride that becomes frustrating at the end if you admire the mature manner in which Cornwell attacks her first half dozen books, but is still rewarding nonetheless. I would especially recommend this book if you have read Lawrence Block's Matt Scudder series and enjoyed watching a character develop from one book to the next. Or if you for some reason liked Patterson's Alex Cross series the Scarpetta books will be a welcome surprise (Scarpetta puts Cross to shame in comparison).<br /><br />You won't be disappointed.	2005-06-03
US	51140190	RBFWU1E4W2ENC	0060735023	396458551	Lost Lake	Books	2	3	4	N	N	a jumble of far fetched ideas	This book has some problems that loom over the structure of its story. It's clunky, pieced together at points in a slap-dash manner. And the characters are only vague approximations of humans, not very successfully fleshed out. What you have here is a novel where if you suspend your notions of reality and allow for your self to be brought along on a disjointed ride, `Lost Lake' will be a mildly entertaining way to pass a few hours.<br /><br />My main complaint is that no one, and I mean no one that has ever lived is as purely evil as the nemesis. It just makes him into a comic book caricature of what could have been an interesting study. Maybe that isn't my main complaint. Instead it might be that the whole scenario is so insanely far fetched that it is almost laughable. If you have read this book, just think about it for a second, the entire plot is just plain goofy. However, even though this is a silly idea to write about, Margolin could have twisted this book just a little bit and had a very interesting book on his hands. If have to give the ending away here, so pass this up if you haven't read the book. What if the general was a sympathetic character after all, and his daughter was crazy? Now that would have been a nice way to end the book.<br /><br />You very well might disagree with me about only giving this book two stars. It was very readable. But I expect a little more than nonsense. I was very disappointed by Margolin's latest effort.	2005-06-01
US	51140190	R1OWZSZGW9S0MU	0312979673	592169243	Break and Enter: A Novel	Books	1	6	8	N	N	This novel has its highlights, aside from that... a disaster	Harrison is a gifted author who has yet to achieve mastery of his field. This is I think his first book and I have to say that it reads like he is still trying to figure out how to piece together a novel. This book is advertised as a legal thriller, and that plot line does hold together this story, but in actuality, this book contains two stories. One, the legal aspect, is pretty well written and I was kept turning the pages in anticipation of its conclusion. But the other component of this novel probably outweighs the legal half of the book in the number of pages dedicated to its portrayal. This second story is concerned with the marriage of the protagonist and is very very painful to read.<br /><br />Peter, the protagonist, is probably not very smart. He is an incredibly self-centered young ADA in Philadelphia. At the same time he is altruistic. He is insanely devoted to his wife who has left him, yet destroys his marriage with a wanton lust. This book is filled with contradictions that I suppose every human contains inside ones soul, but the over all effect achieved here in the book is the portrayal of a man who is at his essence pretty damn disgusting. I found it impossible to feel empathy towards Peter. And Harrison as an author delights in setting up one situation after another where Peter plays the fool and leaves the reader in a space where you will be yelling at the man to not do what he is doing. It's akin to watching someone you want to like bash his head into the wall repeatedly.<br /><br />So, the legal aspect is good, better than Grisham, and I will look forwards to more Harrison novels in the future. But the divorce plot line is just so badly conceived that it brings this whole novel down.	2005-05-31
US	51140190	RW6EBBY8R395O	B00005X60C	614820038	When Eight Bells Toll	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I had a good time reading this book	For what it is, this book is really pretty good. First of all, you need to be aware of the fact that this book is about four decades old, and with that in mind expect to be greeted by many dated ideas. Foremost among these is the sense of chivalry that occurs between thieves and Calvert, the hero. If you read a lot of contemporary thrillers, these villains are not very ruthless in comparison.<br /><br />That aside, this book is very well crafted. A little far fetched in its scheming, but a nice little puzzler that you will be pressed to uncover. The book was written in the hey-day of Ian Fleming's popularity, and James Bond oozes out of the pages all over the place. But what is so great about this book is that where Bond is as dynamic as a cardboard tube, Calvert is constantly berating himself and questioning his own senses. What transpires is in essence a very good Fleming thriller with a little something extra thrown in with this enjoyable character.<br /><br />OK, this book is not a pugilistic prose novel on par with Pynchon or Updike, but it was a fun read that will keep you engaged and while away a pleasant afternoon.	2005-05-30
US	51140190	R82JI42WUDYF6	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a very PC thriller	I was eagerly awaiting this book. Coben is my kind of author, churning out books quickly enough to satisfy a readers desire forever more written pages. Over the last year I have been touting Coben as an up and coming author, sort of on par with a modern day Hitchcock. He has constantly improved as a writer. If you follow the arc of his career from his earlier Myron Bolitar series, to these stand alone novels, you will note an author ever more confident with his profession. His more recent works have taken on a very complex plot structure that not only holds together very well, but also manages to sustain a real feeling of suspense throughout.<br /><br />However... My one complaint of Coben is that his characters are as dimensional as a piece of paper. The Myron Bolitar series was all about these two characters that were super-extra-ordinary human beings. The protagonist (Myron) had really no faults and could do no wrong. This being the case, his books really lost something in regards to character development or conflict. With his stand-alone books, Coben still has had this problem, but instead of being a loosely guised comic book super hero, the protagonist becomes more of a very perfect every man. This is frustrating, because no one is that good of a person. And no with `Innocent,' Coben seemingly takes a new tack of which I was very excited when I read some initial reviews and blurbs. Here the protagonist is an ex-con trying to make a new life for him-self, but his seedy history is catching up to him. But dang it all if Coben doesn't just make this ex-con the greatest most sympathetic human being ever to live. And that's not all, other main characters also follow in suit and before you know it the pages are over flowing with self-righteous sugar syrup. For myself, this fact just ruins everything; it's hard to believe in the characters here.<br /><br />So because of the very underwhelming depictions of our main characters I am knocking off two stars. Its time that Coben reached a new level with his writing, take a stand, and stopped pussyfooting around. He could be one of the best writers of the genre around. I think that `Mystic River' quality writing by the author Denis Lehane is not out of Coben's reach. I wish Coben would reject this gold plated Wonder Bread portrayal of humanity and emulate Jim Harrison or Edward Bunker rather than Dean Koontz and his oh so rosy human condition that is only found on TV or in books like this.<br /><br />If you enjoy Coben for his plot twists (which are five star material) try Quincunx, a period piece set in Elizabethan England by Palisner. It's an amazing book that will keep you on the edge of your seat for days on end. Or try `Mystic River' and see how great a Coben book could be.that Coben reached a new level with his writing, take a stand, and stopped pussyfooting around. He could be one of the best writers of the genre around. I think that `Mystic River' quality writing by the author Denis Lehane is not out of Coben's reach. I wish Coben would reject this gold plated Wonder Bread portrayal of humanity and emulate Jim Harrison or Edward Bunker rather than Dean Koontz and his oh so rosy human condition that is only found on TV or in books like this.  <br /> <br />If you enjoy Coben for his plot twists (which are five star material) try Quincunx, a period piece set in Elizabethan England by Palisner. It's an amazing book that will keep you on the edge of your seat for days on end. Or try `Mystic River' and see how great a Coben book could be.  <br />	2005-05-28
US	51140190	R3M3IZK0VS6VZF	0060198311	609892895	All the Flowers Are Dying (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	1	9	13	N	N	a very poor addition to my favorite mystery series	This is a pretty bad addition to one of the best mystery thriller series. I became hooked on the hard-boiled genre several years ago when I made my way through most of the Scudder books in a matter of weeks. The arc that Scudder made with his fall and then eventual rise was unique and poignant in many regards. The stark writing style of Block captured a real essence of the gritty New York streets. And the small-scale crimes were refreshing to read when it seems that serial killers wiping out hundreds of people in a spree captivate most other authors.<br /><br />With `All the Flowers are Dying' Block continues to take away something from what could have been a perfect series if he had left it alone a few books back. It seems that Scudder has long since finished growing as a character and now is as two dimensional as Blocks other renowned character Bernie from the Burglar series.  Scudder is leading a life that had reached a glorious epoch with his wife Elaine and sidekick TJ. Nothing-new character wise is explored here.<br /><br />The story itself started off with a great and unique plot. I wont be giving anything away by saying that an innocent man is put to death for the murders of three children in Virginia and the real killer is the nemesis in this novel. But this plot line is quickly swept away and becomes incidental after Block spends a good deal of time developing it. I felt like Block had written this as a short story and then tagged it on at the beginning of this book just because he didn't know what to do with it. The manner in which Block attached the two pieces together (the Virginia aspect and Blocks run in with the killer) is very clunky and feels forced. Also in the way is another plot line that I wont get into here, but I will say that it was frustrating in that it felt like a cheap trick to muddy the waters.<br /><br />Skip this book, read the first eight or so Scudder books with abandon and you will be grateful that they are out there in the world for our consumption. By the time you hit this novel you will realize that this is a very poor and pale imitation of the earlier works.<br /><br />A good gritty novel that I never hear anyone talk about is Dog eat Dog by Edward Bunker. You might like that if you are into this genre. Other authors you might consider are Jim Harrison's novels (which are amazing) or Denis Lehane's `Mystic River', which is probably the best stand on its own gritty thriller ever written.world for our consumption. By the time you hit this novel you will realize that this is a very poor and pale imitation of the earlier works.  <br /> <br />A good gritty novel that I never hear anyone talk about is Dog eat Dog by Edward Bunker. You might like that if you are into this genre. Other authors you might consider are Jim Harrison's novels (which are amazing) or Denis Lehane's `Mystic River', which is probably the best stand on its own gritty thriller ever written. <br />	2005-05-27
US	51140190	R37DTW1GRKD0A4	0425180638	109258524	The Last Precinct: Scarpetta (Book 11)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	This is the worst Scarpetta entry in a very worthy series.	This I by far the worst Scarpetta book in the series. What a shame that Cornwell let this amazing series of books get away from her. First of all, this book does redeem that terrible ending to the preceding work, `Black Notice' in which for the umpteenth time Scarpetta foolishly allows a serial killer into her home for an inevitable dull climax. And this book does have a very engaging premise in which Scarpetta is the victim here on trial, and her name is being sullied. But aside from that, this book is a disaster.<br /><br />I hated the ending of Black Notice and was furious with Cornwell that she devastated a remarkably taught book with it. Other than that, I thought that the writing was the best she had done and was looking forwards to this new one because it seemed that Cornwell grew as an author from one book to the next. Also I felt that it was well past time that she tried to get away from the very predictable plot line that she has used in every single Scarpetta book up to this point. But for some reason, Cornwell's prose just falls apart here; it is dull and lengthy, without a shred of the suspense that I have grown to expect from this fine author. And the promising plot just collapses as she tries with all of her might to force it into the conformity and safe harbors of her past novels.<br /><br />Some of what I hated most about this book are that there is no detecting here, Scarpetta just happenstances upon the end solution, its as if Cornwell became tired of writing and just hurried through the last couple of chapters to bring this book to an end. Secondly, Some of what could have made this book interesting, such as Scarpetta's supposed guilt over a murder from `Black Notice' never becomes a full-fledged possibility. Instead Cornwell skates around this alluring plot, spending half of the book building it up, but never pushing it over the edge. Thirdly, what's the point of having any extra characters such as Lucy or Marino? Marino never seems to add anything but bluster, why does Scarpetta always say he is the greatest homicide cop ever? All Marino ever does is leap to the wrong conclusions. Secondly, Lucy and her Last Precinct firm never get off the ground. Why was the Last Precinct firm even in the book? What did Lucy do to help her aunt?<br /><br />The only interesting thing this book offered was two interactions. One was with the psychiatrist Anna and the other was with the ADA Berger. Both of these scenes either reminiscing over WWII or walking through some evidence were well done.<br /><br />Cornwell, if you read these, break the mold. Do you have to have serial killers in every novel? Do you have to follow the same plot line?anything but bluster, why does Scarpetta always say he is the greatest homicide cop ever? All Marino ever does is leap to the wrong conclusions. Secondly, Lucy and her Last Precinct firm never get off the ground. Why was the Last Precinct firm even in the book? What did Lucy do to help her aunt? <br /> <br />The only interesting thing this book offered was two interactions. One was with the psychiatrist Anna and the other was with the ADA Berger. Both of these scenes either reminiscing over WWII or walking through some evidence were well done.  <br /> <br />Cornwell, if you read these, break the mold. Do you have to have serial killers in every novel? Do you have to follow the same plot line?  <br />	2005-05-26
US	51140190	R346GE4PLUT49J	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	95% of this book was near to perfection, the last pages rot	I just finished reading Black Notice and am so upset with Cornwell that I had to sit down here and write out my review to exorcise my negative thoughts as quickly as possible.<br /><br />First of all, I really am enjoying reading Cornwell's series. I think that she very well might have the best mystery/thriller series out there today. If you have yet to pick up one of her books I would implore you to do so without hesitation. You should start towards the beginning of this series and follow the development of the characters even though it is not essential to enjoy yourself here. The quality of Cornwell's writing is so high that it will more than suffice in winning you over.<br /><br />I'd been feeling that Cornwell had drawn herself into a corner with her series up to this book. She has been having an on-going involvement with a serial killer team that dragged across so many books that it was becoming a little tiresome. So when I started this book, I found myself filled with an unexpected excitement as Cornwell seemingly instigated a new level to her story composition with the introduction of great internal strife with in the medical examiners offices. When you read these pages, I promise you that you will find yourself riveted to the story as it unfolds.<br /><br />I am so mad because this book clicked along perfectly for a good 70% of its first pages, then it stumbled a little and got a little hokey as Scarpetta and Marino traveled to Paris. But it still remained a very fine book. But the ending... my god Cornwell, how can you take such a fine achievement and desecrate it in such a predictable and uninspired manner? I won't give the ending away here. If you have read Cornwell in the past you will see exactly why this ending is so lazy on her part. Compare it to other endings Cornwell has given to us in the past and then tell me that it is not becoming a very tired gimmick on the author's part.<br /><br />So all of that aside, I would love to give this book the five stars it should deserve.k the five stars it should deserve.  <br />	2005-05-24
US	51140190	R1U3AXP4ZFV1ZB	0553296590	674781900	Dreamsnake	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a fine read	I really enjoyed slipping into the mind of McIntyre for a few hours as I followed Snake (the heroine) around a strange and hopefully alternate future. Part of what I enjoyed is that McIntyre left the reader in just as much confusion over aspects of how this future world worked as she did her protagonist. So as her protagonist found some new knowledge or discarded old false ideas, so did the reader.<br /><br />There is one thing that I would like to point out for anyone who has not read this book yet, and that is don't go into this expecting your usual form of science fiction here. This is more of a mystical journey where the mood created by the author is half of the fun. I kind of equate this book with the 'Kin of Ata are Waiting' in writing style. Other than that it is unusual against the books that I have stumbled across.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book as a light and un-taxing read. It is not Pynchon or Proust, just a gentle pleasant story.	2005-05-22
US	51140190	R13JBEYISVLU42	0804104506	963264326	The Whale's Footprints	Books	3	1	1	N	N	this is fun to read, with stipulations	I read Billingsgate Shoal a few weeks ago. This is the book Rick Boyer won the Edgar award for. I found a lot in that book that I both liked and dis-liked. The Whale's Footprints is similar to Billingsgate in that regard.<br /><br />First of all, if you have not read a Doc Adams  before, he is a pretty good protagonist. He is still on the two dimensional side as a character, and both his supporting cast of family as well as friends falls into Magnum PI 1980's tv land. If you don't mind that, you probably will like these Doc Adams books. I think that you should start at the begining of the series though.<br /><br />Secondly, the plot here is beyond a little stretched. The story is more than a little immature quite often regarding how neatly everything just falls into place. If I knew Boyer at the time he was writing these books, I would have told him to slow down a little as an author. I think that it would have helped both Doc Adam's as well as pull the reader in if  Boyer had taken the time to not only go into greater detail on the sense of place, but also fleshed out some of the decent conversations occuring.	2005-05-22
US	51140190	RV9N9WQTIH36E	0553562940	194318952	Uncharted Territory	Books	3	1	2	N	N	more like a decent short story than a true Willis novel	This is a typical Connie Willis short story rather than what you would expect from her after reading Doomsday or To Say Nothing of the Dog. Admittedly this book was I believe written before either of her classics. I picked this up because I truly love the author and needed a Willis fix bad. It supplied me with a moderate dose that satisfied my mental itch for a few hours in a pleasant way, but left me out of sorts and unsatisfied with the development of the over all situation here.<br /><br />First of all, the plot, which never seems to be of a great concern to Willis, is really kind of non-existent. I did not mind this too much, but wonder what it was that Willis was trying to get across with this writing. Secondly, the conversational writing here and underlying romance was down played. And the on going fine jokes became more than slightly tedious.<br /><br />If you haven't read Willis yet, skip over \\"To Say Nothing of the Dog,' you will be in for a real treat.	2005-05-22
US	51140190	R38R03BWU07AMZ	0745927831	604006987	Endless Knot (Song of Albion trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	this is a very juvenile effort, but maybe thats the point	This is at times a very well written book. Usually in most adventure novels that I have stumbled across some of the actual conflicts are the most poorly written parts of the book. But here Lawhead shows himself time and again to have a strong hand in his profession if taken on such narrow guidelines. It is some other aspects of this book that drove me a little nuts reading this book. First of all, his main character Llew Silver Hand was a spoiled little brat. He is supposed to be a King to end all Kings, but instead I often found him to be no different than a highly spoiled pre teenager that I wanted to slap around. Secondly, the writing here is so incredibly sentimental that I felt like I was watching a scoop of ice cream being slathered with a gallon of chocolate sauce. The first third of his book has little to do with the plot, but was interesting nonetheless. I was enraptured by the descriptive power Lawhead displayed here as Llew surveyed his empire and wed his love. Then, the entire plot is hinged on incredible, and if you think about it, insanely far fetched occurrences. I mean come on, if your going to write a book at least iron out some of the harder to swallow aspects here. The worst was the incident in which Llew let a murderer several times over go because he claimed Nowl (I might have miss-spelled that) and because he did so Llew could not punish the murderer or he himself would have to relinquish his throne. Why wouldn't every criminal claim `Nowl'?<br /><br />If you want a book better than this by a long long long shot, try George R R Martin's now four book series `Song of Ice and Fire'.	2005-05-22
US	51140190	R9447JFTDMVA0	0425169863	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The series is starting to wobble on its legs a bit	In `Point of Origin' Patricia Cornwell is following the lead of James Patterson's protagonist Alex Cross. Once again we are confronted with the essence of evil in the guise of a manipulative serial killer that works her way from one book to the next. By comparing the Scarpetta series with the Cross you would be right to leap to the conclusion that I am laying a major insult on Cornwell. Patterson has proven himself to be the most craven and laziest author at work today, concerned only with making a quick buck on the hapless reader. But where Patterson has utterly destroyed the credibility of a once interesting character in Cross, Cornwell has fashioned a more thoughtful approach to the same problem. This book works well, but only just barely.<br /><br />As much as I am enjoying reading the Scarpetta series, it is becoming frayed at the seams a bit. I am hoping that Cornwell will leave behind this character who has seemingly been explored to about her furthest point. Scarpetta cant battle a new serial killer every book and confront that person in such a personal one on one struggle every time with out getting a little tiring. After all, most of the growth Scarpetta attained was in the first few books of this series, and now it feels like she is becoming a stereotype of herself. I think that Cornwell is such a gifted author that she could, if she wished, write a novel on par with Jim Harrison's better books, or `Mystic River' or `Motherless Brooklyn.'	2005-05-17
US	51140190	R3R497AS01H7SZ	0671038567	59746751	Body of Evidence (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Still love Cornwell, just a sophomore bump in the road here	This is not Patricia Cornwell's best book. I have read two others by her, a little out of order, `Body Farm,' which is a magnificent mystery/thriller achievement and `Postmortem' was a grand opening to what is turning out to be a wholly engrossing series I hope. But `Body of Evidence' felt like an unsure sophomore effort on the part of Cornwell. Not that it was bad, I have no real glaring complaints about this book, but on the other hand the plot was a bit clunky. I think that if you do read the entire series, which is my plan, this is an adequate book that won't leave you terribly disappointed. It just felt a little unnecessary, as if you were renting the 14th James Bond flick. The book was fun, but predictable and pretty much the same as its predecessor. All of that aside, having started in the middle of the series with `Body Farm', I know in advance that Scarpetta will undergo a series of personal upheavals that I will enjoy encountering I am sure as the novels progress.<br /><br />My main complaint here (and this could be a spoiler) is that the ending is almost identical to `Postmortem'. Not only that, but it was a fair stretch to pull Scarpetta in as the victim here. I just did not buy it. Also, as she travels around, the descriptions of place were a little underwhelming as others have pointed out. I felt like the first half of the book; Cornwell was attempting to imitate some of Agatha Christie's work here. The second half of the book became a mish mash of styles that set up a wholly new genre; only it was done here unclearly and ultimately unsatisfactorily.<br /><br />If you like Cornwells books, I would recommend two other authors that don't go way over the top. Denis Lehane, who wrote `Mystic River,' (perhaps the best thriller I have ever come across) also wrote a series of five books that were fun to read about a pair of detectives in Boston. Harlan Coben wrote a series of books that he is well known for (Myron Bolitar) but they are just ok. If you check out Coben's stand alone, more recent novels you will be in for a treat.eck out Coben's stand alone, more recent novels you will be in for a treat.  <br />	2005-05-16
US	51140190	R22132PXRSCWOW	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	a very good book	I first read Ender's Game as a 7th grader when it first came out. I remember enjoying this book immensely and would not hesitate to hand a copy out to any youngster that I came across today. Now, as an adult I decided to listen to this book as I worked and was pleasantly surprised that I found it very enjoyable even at my advanced age. Ender's Game is obviously written for a younger crowd, but at the same time it is so well conceived that it will be enjoyable to all but the most jaded of readers.<br /><br />This book does not feel as spry as Rowling's Harry Potter books, but instead reflect the sparser writing of Phillip Pullman. If you have read either of these two authors and are looking for a book almost on par with these, I would recommend Ender's Game.<br /><br />Other books that might be of interest to you if you are looking to expand your sci-fi horizons would be Harry Harrison's first three 'Stainless Steel Rat' books, Robert Heinlein's pre-' Stranger in a Strange Land' books for a younger crowd (this would include the classic 'Puppet Masters,' or 'Starship Troopers') or Larry Nivin's short stories.<br /><br />For older readers I would recommend Philip K Dick's work including his complete short stories or 'Now Wait for Yesterday,' Neal Stephenson's 'Cryptomnicrom,' or on a fantasy note, the yet unresolved series of books by George R Martin.	2005-05-15
US	51140190	RHIGS9I5KWIN1	0441010938	517325606	Deprivers	Books	1	2	6	N	N	really bad	Its funny that another reviewer said this was \\"X-men meets the fugitive.\\" Before I started to write this I was thinking of what this book reminded me of and all I could think of were comic books in prose form. I especially thought of the really bad X-men movies that brought a legion of wacky characters together in a fight of good vs. evil.<br /><br />This book was really bad because it starts off with zero character development. We jump into the story with no idea why we should give a damn about these people who feel so sorry for them selves. The story skips around from one character to another and an incredibly cheesy world in conflict plot arises. Lastly, the writing here is painfully bad. I think that the only reason this book was published is because it really felt like a B movie and perhaps they were hoping for a movie deal.<br /><br />It seems like the last decade Hollywood has been producing an endless supply of comic book based movies that differ little from one another. Every once in a while one of these is watchable I suppose, but the majority of these films are trash. And then at the bottom of the heap are a few films that are so bad and so uninspired that it kind of takes your breath away just to watch the trailer and contemplate them ('Batwoman,' or 'Daredevil' to name a couple recent ones). That is how this novel feels.	2005-05-15
US	51140190	R2ULB4EDMQRUU9	0743477154	602429584	Postmortem (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cornwell is a master at her craft	I am giving this book only four stars because of its goofy ending. I wont give the ending away, but it was entirely unworthy of this book that was otherwise so fine. Besides that one bit of rancor on my part, I would highly recommend this book to anyone.<br /><br />The writing here is taught. Cornwell is obviously one of the best writers of mystery/suspense out there today. I can only think of a few other authors that meet her standards in this genre and they are so dissimilar that it almost leaves Cornwell alone on top of her own mountain. Not only does Cornwell give us a grade A protagonist in Kay Scarpetta, but also she drags us along on a jaunt through evidence that you normally would not encounter in mysteries. Usually when you pick up a mystery, every written word will tie back into the solution or conclusion, not here. Instead Cornwell will take you on a feisty ride that will leave you turning pages in rapturous anticipation.<br /><br />This is the second Cornwell book that I have read, the other being `Body Farm,' a more complex novel that casts Scarpetta in a very unflattering light. Its nice to see the unusual evolution of this great character Cornwell has given us from one book to the next. Here in `Postmortem' Scarpetta is a somewhat likeable woman dealing with varieties of stock supporting characters that never get fleshed out. In `Body Farm' Scarpetta becomes more human and hard to deal with as a sympathetic reader. Cornwell also fleshes out several other characters such as Marino and her niece in a likewise vile manner.  I hope you enjoy this book as much as I and continue on through the series with as much appreciation for the treat Cornwell has presented us.	2005-05-12
US	51140190	RWJDSMQZIE5BP	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Don't get me wrong, I love Connie Willis	I think that Connie Willis is the best science fiction writer out there today. It's just that this here is not up to par with the other two books of hers that I have read. `To Say Nothing of the Dog' is a classic that I would recommend to anyone, even those who scoff at the mention of Sci-Fi. And `Doomsday' was a very enjoyable read in its own right. But what kind of put me off in `Doomsday' was the same thing that made me upset with `Passage.' `Doomsday' was a very linear book, the plot of it started at point A and headed without departure from its track to its end. That was o.k. because there were a few things going on that broke the plot up a bit. `Passage' on the other hand starts off in one direction and for 600 pages we pretty much know what is going to happen.  I was very frustrated by Willis in that I was constantly flipping past well-written pages to hurry along the plot. I felt like I was listening to a great song that starts off well for the first minute, and then a soloist hits a high C note and holds it their for the next four minutes until finally the band starts up again and finishes off in a semblance of order. Or maybe you could say that this would have made a great 40-page short story, but for some reason it is 600 pages long. Or it could just be that Willis needs to read and examine some suspense authors to see how important it is to keep the plot moving and the reader engaged.<br /><br />I would recommend to Willis that she read `Wind Up Bird Chronicle,' a book by Murakami. It would be interesting to see how Willis' books would change if she brought in some of the narrative devices that Murakami uses. He is constantly going off on tangents that help the reader think and expand the scope of the book. Another author Willis might get something from would be Russo's `Nobody's Fool.' This is another book that is all about small stories with in a larger context. I think that Willis was playing with this tangent device a little, but it was not pulled off with great success here.off with great success here.  <br />	2005-05-11
US	51140190	R3QBDO2CCCYM15	0312866437	709096683	Adventures in Time and Space with Max Merriwell	Books	3	4	5	N	N	almost a masterpiece	This book started out amazingly well. I found myself really getting pulled into an intriguing plot that was left ambiguous enough to willingly drag me along as a reader.  Pat Murphy set up a situation on a cruise line involving two single women, a crusty old science fiction writer and members of the crew. The interactions at first between these protagonists were so craftily done that I found myself feeling like I was not only getting to know them, but also wishing that these were my own friends.<br /><br />However, then Murphy takes a very childish turn about 80% of they way through the book and instead of remaining sophisticated starts getting just plain goofy. I think that this was the point of the story, and I understood why she did what she did, but I felt all of a sudden like I was reading a book written for 7th graders and not a fitting ending to a great start. In fact it was a pretty lazy ending. Also, the characters that I was enjoying reading so much fell apart as well and became cardboard imitations of them selves.<br /><br />If you have not read Connie Willis before, I would recommend that you start with her before Pat Murphy. I was even thinking at the back of my mind that Murphy might have been an alias for Willis before it started falling apart. `To Say Nothing of the Dog' might be the best science fiction book written in the last two decades and would be a much more satisfying read I promise you.<br /><br />If you have read both Willis and Pat Murphy and are looking for similar authors, I would recommend that you branch out into mysteries and try `Break Up' by Dana Stabenow or `Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet' by MC Beaton. One other author of note similar to what Pat Murphy is attempting here would be `Practical Magic' by Alice Hoffman.	2005-05-10
US	51140190	R7HEXATPR8M1U	0679753338	499546549	Nobody's Fool	Books	5	10	11	N	N	one of the best books I have ever come across	This book is perfect. I have come across only a few books in my time that joyfully sing from start to end, it is like finding an open doorway into a place you never expected to find. This is the first Russo book that I have read and I am shocked at myself in that I never gave the author a chance before. The reason I have spent all of these years over looking Russo is probably because I thought that his books were of the intellectual vein, a tough read that would be satisfying upon conclusion, but a struggle to get through. Instead I found `Nobody's Fool' to be just the opposite. Though the story and plot line were elegantly complex and the characters portrayed were well fleshed out, Russo did this while not going Pynchon or Joyce on the reader. Instead Russo beckons the reader in with a familiar banter that is non-threatening ala Fante or a layman's Stegner. The book is calming and peaceful, embracing one with the joy of life.<br /><br />Sully is in my mind one of the greatest characters that I have come across in literature. But it is not just Sully who is unique among fictional creations that I have come across. It is also the entire town that Russo has brought forwards. Everyone here is alive and struggling from one day to the next. Russo places just as much emphasis on bit characters as he does with Sully who holds it all together.<br /><br />I'm finding it hard to say why I liked this book so much. I don't want to just re-hash the plot; other reviewers here seem to do such a fine job of that. Let me just say that you should trust your intuition, if you have gotten this far into this review and have scanned a couple of others here, you will see nothing but unadorned praise. A lot of Amazon books get higher reviews than they usually deserve, `Nobody's Fool' earned it. You will have to search far and wide to find a more satisfying novel than this.<br /><br />If you want an author close to what Russo is writing hear, I would suggest Underworld by Delillo or the complete Fante collection. Neither are quite the same as Russo, but both either in expression or sentiment fall close by.the complete Fante collection. Neither are quite the same as Russo, but both either in expression or sentiment fall close by. <br />	2005-05-08
US	51140190	R2OUUOW7Y0WCSF	0375411089	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Hiaasen is starting to get a little long in the tooth	I was a little disappointed in this book. It feels like Hiaasen is starting to re-hash old grounds. I have seen these oh so cool characters in previous books and the plot line is becoming old and dated. I mean you can only read the same story so many times before you start wondering if the author is permanently stuck on one track. I think the success that Hiaasen has found at the same time has paralyzed him against taking risks and the story here becomes a parody not of other genre books (such as his earlier titles) but of his own earlier works.<br /><br />It seems like authors who spend a few years in Southern Florida start writing in a similar vein. Back in the 70's Elmore Leonard perfected his slapstick capers while situating several of his stories in this area. I think that Hiaasen owes more to Leonard than anyone else, but he did not out and out copy the older master of this genre. Instead Hiaasen took an ecological slant and a more erudite writing stance that managed to flesh out his characters a little more than Leonard. Several of Hiaasen's earlier works are classics, such as 'Tourist Season,' and 'Stormy Weather.' Lately Lawrence Shames has taken the mantle of Florida's funniest crime writer; though I think he does not rate up there with Hiaasen or Leonard. All three are eerily similar and if you are looking to expand your reading horizon along the lines of Hiaasen, you might want to check out the other two writers.	2005-05-04
US	51140190	R30APL7R0NTXWO	0380728257	12527119	When the Sacred Ginmill Closes (Matthew Scudder Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Scudder is the greatest crime protagonist out there	I am writing this because I was looking to see what others were saying about my favorite mystery/crime character. The latest few reviews were pretty hard on Block and I just want to put a few things straight.<br /><br />First of all, Block is a very hit or miss author. He has written dozens of books and maybe only 25% of them are Scudder novels. He has written just as many 'Burglar' books that are more akin to Agatha Christy than Dashiel Hammett, and I am not their biggest fan. Besides that, Block has written countless short stories and started a few other series' that are in comparison to Scudder, uninspired.<br /><br />What Block has done here is not write just one book and then continue to revise the same plot over and over as so many mystery writers do. Instead, as a reader you should start at the beginning of this series 'Sins of our Fathers' where you will find a Matthew Scudder, moderately in control of his alcoholism. This is not the best Block, but it is pretty important to follow the development of this amazing character from one book to the next.<br /><br />By the time you come to 'Ginmill,' '8 Million Ways to Die,' or others further along in the series, you will have found yourself keenly aware of the small developments of Matthew Scudder as a character. 'Ginmill' is a key Scudder novel in that it marks a transitional point that opens up new horizons in coming books and acts as a bridge in many ways. If you have not read the preceding books, and don't wait to judge 'Ginmill' until reading a few more, this will not be apparent.<br /><br />Secondly, 'Ginmill,' like all of the Scudder novels, is not earth shattering. After you have read hundreds of thrillers where the earth hangs in the balance every time, it is refreshing to pick up a Scudder book that is all about smaller mundane everyday occurrences. These pages are all the more satisfying due to the fact that Block is using this book to really explore a character that he has already spent a great deal of time and energy with.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this series as a whole, it is one of two that really follow a primary character through a lifetimes worth of changes. The other that I am keenly thinking of as I write this would be by John Fante, and I would even recommend his work over Blocks (high praise). If you have read most of Block's work and would like to find another author who treats a character this way, start with Fante's 'Arturo Bandini' books (Fante's alter ego) and then pick up the rest of them. They all fit nicely together portraying a life from infancy to senility.great deal of time and energy with.  <br /> <br />I would highly recommend this series as a whole, it is one of two that really follow a primary character through a lifetimes worth of changes. The other that I am keenly thinking of as I write this would be by John Fante, and I would even recommend his work over Blocks (high praise). If you have read most of Block's work and would like to find another author who treats a character this way, start with Fante's 'Arturo Bandini' books (Fante's alter ego) and then pick up the rest of them. They all fit nicely together portraying a life from infancy to senility. <br />	2005-05-04
US	51140190	R2EC8P7OOF3SFB	0312971842	91020937	An Ocean Apart: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	I thoroughly enjoy the writing of Pilcher	I first found Pilcher when I picked up 'A Risk Worth Taking.' This book was enchanting in the way it built up characters and hurried the reader effortlessly along without the crutch of an overall plot for the first half of the book. Which is quite an achievement if you think about it. And because I enjoyed 'Risk' so much I decided to read the rest of Pilcher's work as well.<br /><br />As I read 'An Ocean Apart' I found myself comparing it to 'A Risk Worth Taking' quite often. Five or six years of time lay between the two and the growth of Pilcher's ability as an author during this time is apparent. First of all 'Risk' is overflowing with sentimentality and syrup. At times the lives portrayed were so idyllic and content (even though they were undergoing conflict) that it was difficult to take. 'Risk' on the other hand has dampened this exuberance if just a bit and by doing so allowed for the penultimate moments to become ever more vivid. Also the plot of 'Ocean' is quite predictable even if Pilcher adds in several curves that muddy expectations over the details. 'Ocean' follows a very traditional linear plot line that you will have encountered countless times be it in another book or the TV movie of the week. 'Risk' however is very unusual and I would recommend that title as a starting point to any who are looking for something new and enticing plot wise.<br /><br />Pilcher writes about the upper class. And it is evident that he harbors deep feelings even if subconscious on his part over class structure and its place in the world, which is fascinating unto itself, watching these aspects pop out in unexpected places. I am envious of the world Robin Pilcher must live in. He has such a positive view on life. When you read one of his books you will find yourself saying again and again, 'Ahhh, this is the way the world should be.'  I look forwards to many more books by Pilcher in the future. I hope that he continues to grow as an author and continues the trend away from the traditional plot line that is so engrossing in 'Risk.' I think that he could end up as a shining light in literature if he does so. And 'Ocean' is not only an enjoyable read put forwards by an author just finding his own legs, but a beacon showing a precursor of promise that I hope is realized in the years to come.from the traditional plot line that is so engrossing in 'Risk.' I think that he could end up as a shining light in literature if he does so. And 'Ocean' is not only an enjoyable read put forwards by an author just finding his own legs, but a beacon showing a precursor of promise that I hope is realized in the years to come. <br />	2005-05-02
US	51140190	RGOFOAYIP6CVJ	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a satisfying novel	I have read this book twice now, with about fifteen years in between. Both times I left feeling like I had walked away with a newfound knowledge into a society that I knew little of. From what I understand, Clavell was a prisoner of war during WWII under the Japanese and he related this experience in the book King Rat. I find it fascinating that instead of harboring an immense resentment towards this culture, Clavell embraces it and brings to life a novel such as Shogun.<br /><br />This book spans a well-crafted period of transformation on the part of Blackthorn, an English pilot for a fleet of Dutch ships that reach the end of its foreshortened journey on the shores of Japan. Though the book might follow Blackthorn on his journey though various levels and occasions of Japans society, it is really more a story that attempts to explain Japan and why it is the way it is.<br /><br />I have read King Rat and Tai Pan, and found both of these books to be lacking in some way. If you have started with one of these books and are hesitant to pick up Shogun, I beg of you to reconsider. Clavell is at the peak of his powers here and you will be satisfied with the pages that await your turning.	2005-04-30
US	51140190	R3BAS4M96APE7E	0804111626	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	This is not really a mystery...	This is the second in the Agatha Raisin series and my personal favorite so far. In the Quiche of Death we met Raisin and followed her around the Cotswold's as she moved into her new home in the country. We immediately are confronted with a haggy old dame who has retired and now plans on wrecking havoc on her poor neighbors. What makes 'Vicious Vet' work on an even grander scale than 'Quiche of Death' is Beaton's willingness to further expand upon the characters and Raisins interactions with them.<br /><br />This is not at all a mystery. One does take place in these pages, but it is very much secondary to the town folk. So even though Beaton references Marples in every book, this is not an engrossing mystery online with Agatha Christies work. Instead I would recommend that you think of this as a romp on par with Wallace and Grommit.<br /><br />If you are looking for something similar to this, I would recommend that you pick up the Kate Shugak novel 'Break Up,' by Dana Stabenow. Another good author that slightly reminds me of Beaton is Connie Willis, and I would recommend her work, 'To Say Nothing of the Dog.'	2005-04-27
US	51140190	RQ7ST5CW2JBUL	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	3	21	25	N	N	I have conflicting feelings about this book	This is such an old school novel. I was thinking for the first half that it bore a striking resemblance to the better Graham Green. But as I kept working my way through the pages, the laconic prose kept putting me off. Don't get me wrong, the pages in this book flow like a molasses dream. But the story builds so slowly that it becomes frustrating. The main character is not very intelligent, and as a reader you will be jumping ahead of him, screaming at him like he was the blond bimbo in a horror flick to run out of the house. So as the story builds at its slooooow pace, and the `unsophisticated postal technician' Leonard Marnham frustratingly gets batted about like a moth in a box, we are left not as entranced readers, but as frustrated onlookers. That is my main beef with this story. I could not enjoy myself spending time with this character or the circumstances. McEwan did a remarkable job in writing this and pacing the story, he just never gave us a character that we as readers could relate to.<br /><br />I have never read McEwan before, and I am looking forwards to trying my hand at another of his novels. It was courageous on his part to create such a novel as this, and I respect him greatly for doing so. But I just don't think that this book worked very well.	2005-04-27
US	51140190	RVUIY8BJIH52N	0312961863	304124845	Agatha Raisin and the Murderous Marriage (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	yawn	I love Agatha Raisin. I think that the first three books in this series are remarkably well done. But maybe I read the first five books too quickly and this is one just became glaringly the same as the others. Instead of growing as a character Agatha is becoming a stereotype. Not only that but the other once glorious town folk are becoming more backdrops. Backdrops to what is another question... for what made the first few books great were not the mysteries but the characters themselves. Now it seems that Beaton is trying to force Raisin into the land of James Bond and spy craft.<br /><br />I will just put it that I was pretty disappointed by this book and feel like the three star review might be a little generous on my part. Only the fact that Beaton wrote such brilliant books (that are mocked here) lends itself to garnering a higher review in my book.	2005-04-25
US	51140190	R1V7ZS9I241PT2	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Great idea, poor execution	I will give this book a couple of stars only because of its unique slant on the genre. Crichton has turned the folks at Green Peace into eco terrorists worthy of giving Bin Laden a run for his money. Not only that but he takes a character and uses him as a sounding board; throwing meaty facts that dispute the notion that global warming exists. This allows for the reader to become informed to some startling facts that might indeed change your mind in regards to the notion of global warming.<br /><br />All of that aside, to put it bluntly, this book sucks. A while back, Crichton did write a few excellent techno thrillers, Jurassic Park, Rising Sun, and Disclosure, but since then Timeline, Prey, Airframe, and now this book have all been at best sub-par. As a human being I have to give Crichton his kudos, he is a damn smart man and has had a very successful career I am envious of. But as an author pertaining to the contents of this book, he is both lazy and aside from the original idea, uninspired. He pulls every no-no out of his hat and runs with them, pushing them together in order to bundle off a hasty manuscript.<br /><br />My primary early complaint is the amount of time it took to establish a main character. As a reader you will be bounced from one situation to the next with a growing sense of abandonment. Crichton is establishing his forthcoming disasters, but he does so in a non-linear fashion that leaves the reader unattached to any character. Secondly, Crichton gives the good guys a list of locations that takes all of the detection work out of this, the main characters only have to connect the dots and save the day, and I tell you hundreds of pages of this grows tedious fast. Thirdly, one of the good guys is a character even more brilliant than the biography of Crichton himself, a needless superhero able to leap to conclusions even Sherlock Holmes would not have deduced, taking even more fun out of the chase and further alienating the reader. Fourth, why don't these guys just bring in the Calvary right away when they find the list and put an immediate stop to this looming catastrophe? After all, they knew who the primary evildoers were in this case. I could go on and on.<br /><br />I was really looking forwards to reading this book. Something tells me that one day when Crichton settles down again after enjoying the good life he will write a few more very fine reads. But this is one book that you should stay away from. Try Dennis Lehane's `Mystic River', Michael Connelly's `Blood Work', Lawrence Block's  `Matthew Scudder' series or one of Harlan Coben's more recent books (without Myron Bolitar).don't these guys just bring in the Calvary right away when they find the list and put an immediate stop to this looming catastrophe? After all, they knew who the primary evildoers were in this case. I could go on and on.  <br /> <br />I was really looking forwards to reading this book. Something tells me that one day when Crichton settles down again after enjoying the good life he will write a few more very fine reads. But this is one book that you should stay away from. Try Dennis Lehane's `Mystic River', Michael Connelly's `Blood Work', Lawrence Block's  `Matthew Scudder' series or one of Harlan Coben's more recent books (without Myron Bolitar). <br />	2005-04-25
US	51140190	R19N2ZB5K5W9IG	0553587889	239706284	Prodigal Son (Dean Koontz's Frankenstein, Book 1)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	not koontz's best	If you have read a Koontz before, you will pretty much already know the story line to this tale. The only difference is that here Koontz takes in Frankenstein and turns him into a Marvel Comic book character out to save the day.<br /><br />I think that I have read just about every Koontz book. He has a plot that he uses over and over again shifting characters and situations just slightly in order to write something new, but it's really not often new. The reason that I read or listen to Koontz is that every once and a while he almost produces an astounding book. Back in the early 1990's it seems to me that he wrote two or three tales of horror that was really engrossing.  But since then he has written close to 20 books that are just goofy. They are silly in that they go so over the top with a bad guy who is so purely evil pitted against a couple that is falling in love and as pure as can be. And the ending always is a lesson in Christian morality that makes you wants to call up the author and offer some editorial advice. The only difference with Frankenstein as opposed to most of Koontz earlier work is that this one is three times more complex and three times as long. I have not read the last two books in the series yet, but I hope that they don't become three times as sappy.<br /><br />Koontz has the ability to write a great novel. His imagination and ability to push a story along are not in question. What is in question in my opinion is his need for pat resolutions. At the outset of this newest book, he talks of meeting with Phillip K Dick, an author who inspired many a twilight zone episode in the 60's. Dick's stories were strange and odd tales that harbor a mood I think Koontz strives for in his work. I wish that Koontz would pick up a few of Dick's books and see that if his happy endings were applied to them, they would fall apart, just as Koontz's do. I wish that Koontz's main characters were either more flawed if on the good side or less evil if on the bad. At times when you are reading one of Koontz's books, you feel very much like you are in the middle of one of the better X-file episodes and wonder why Koontz doesn't grab a hold of these moments and expound.<br /><br />(...)are reading one of Koontz's books, you feel very much like you are in the middle of one of the better X-file episodes and wonder why Koontz doesn't grab a hold of these moments and expound.    (...)	2005-04-19
US	51140190	R2I4J1G252HJBC	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	1	22	26	N	N	This might very well be Patterson's best book in ten years	Even though this is the best Patterson book in a decade (and he has churned out dozens over that time) this statement is by no means charitable. Honeymoon is one of the laziest, loosely edited bits of slop I have ever come across. The plot is about as formulaic as can be, and is as digestible as the poison used within these pages. Huge, giant swaths of the story essential in holding it all together are added in with castaway sentences. Instead of any sign of integrity, sex scenes haunt a good 20% of these pages (and poorly written B grade soft porn sex at that).<br /><br />In some respects you've got to just admire the sheer lengths James Patterson traverses to sell his books. The man is utterly shameless in his efforts to produce as many titles as possible while creating some of the worst fiction of our day. It wouldn't surprise me at all if he had a stable of ghostwriters helping him get this stuff on the shelf. At least Honeymoon is not another poorly written addition to the Alex Cross series (I did enjoy a couple of the early Cross books). And thank god this is not yet another sequel to his Nancy Drew series or the genetic mutant Angel books.<br /><br />I just keep asking myself, why do I read or listen to this monster of a writers books? They are so bad, and I know that they will make me wretch even before I pick them up. Maybe it is because they are like the McDonalds of fiction that makes them appealing. Its intellectual equivalent is like sitting in front of the TV and channel surfing.<br /><br />Please, instead of getting this book, try Harlan Coben's newer work (just not his Simon Bolitar series) or Dennis Lehane (in my opinion the best thriller writer at work today)	2005-04-18
US	51140190	RX21RUX6ZCFEB	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	this tale will grow on you	Let me just say that I read the first three books a year ago and have been anxiously awaiting the 4th in the series for some time now. So with this I am judging the first three at once. And I have to say that this is the best fantasy series that I have come across. I think that I have read over a hundred fantasy, not science fiction, books in my time and none of them compare in the over all sweep of imagination that Martin hands us here. Robert Jordan, Tolkein, et all... these authors could learn a thing or two from Martin.<br /><br />I just want to caution the prospective reader because these novels unfold gradually. Martin is not in a hurry to resolve the plot lines or take us from one action scene to the next as quickly as possible. Instead we become more and more acquainted with the main characters and when suspense calls, it is all the more terrifying for the interludes.<br /><br />Also I don't think that Martin knows how this series will end. I think that he might have had an idea and that it is evolving as he writes it. Which is great because instead of taking easy endings he is not only introducing new main characters into the story line but also drastically eliminating a few of those that have become too dear. So you just wont know what direction this series will turn next, and that is very refreshing. I think that this is a primary reason that these books succeed in becoming more engaging with every turned page.<br /><br />Pallisners 'Quincunx' though it is a historical novel and seen through the eyes of one character instead of a myriad of them would be the one book that I would recommend if you were looking for something similar to this series. I say this because the plot of 'Quincunx' is so incredibly complex (as is this series) it becomes a tour de force in many ways.	2005-04-18
US	51140190	R2ZBZH8A8VTRG0	0345450183	290245844	Balance of Power (Kerry Kilcannon)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	a very odd book	Patterson does not write prose in a manner that I have ever come across before. His work feels like I am reading a transcript to a CSPAN argument rather than fiction. I cant decide if he might be the most uninspired writer of prose working successfully today, or a manipulative author using such a dry approach as a tool to add authenticity to his words.<br /><br />Other glaring weaknesses would include foremost the manner in which Patterson jumps around from one character to another. As a reader you will have a very difficult time feeling empathy towards anyone here, for they as characters are not very well developed. Lastly, the primary focus of the novel, a fight against a fictional NRA, actually occurred in our congress last year and the bill basically did what Patterson rallies against so vehemently here. Only the passing of the bill did not even register more than a blip in the national press at the time, and here Patterson turns this cause into a defining movement in politics of our times.<br /><br />In some ways, the manner in which Patterson develops an alternate universe and then digs into it with immaculate detail, this book will impress you. But in others, as I stated previously, you will be let down by its very predictable story line.<br /><br />I did read the precursor to this book, 'Protect and Defend,' a while ago. I was rather indifferent to this book as well. So if you are a Patterson fan you might want to disregard my review. Its only that if you are for some reason rabidly devouring his books, I don't think that you have been looking very hard for other authors that would give you more enjoyment for your time. Try Dennis Lehane or Harlen Coben (non Simon Bolitar novels).	2005-04-17
US	51140190	R786X3ZHKSJF4	0679879242	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	even as an avid reader & an adult, I loved this book	Pullman here has written a trilogy very different than Harry Potter. Where as Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings might tell a great tale that will sweep a reader of any age into a fascinating world, Pullman has gone deeper and added a subversive element. What fascinates me about this trilogy is the manner in which Pullman takes on aspects of society such as the church and ferociously attacks it.<br /><br />Though the characters are not fleshed out to a great extent in comparison to fiction oriented more exclusively towards adults, the story will weave an engrossing web around the reader. Not only will you be swept along on a mystical ride through a surreal universe, but you will encounter problems faced by our present day world with a new perspective.	2005-04-14
US	51140190	R5IWKG00G3W6O	0449221121	660240543	Rat Race	Books	3	11	12	N	N	this is a pretty good dick francis,	It's kind of strange, but every Dick Francis is pretty much the same. It's strange because only two of his many books have the same lead character. What Francis does is find a profession, research what may pertain to said profession, and then plop his readymade protagonist and story-line into this situation.<br /><br />The gift that Francis has is that as a reader I really don't mind that I have seen this plot and character twenty times before. The authors prose is elegant in its way and it allows the reader easy access to a world that is fascinating to visit. Whenever I think of Francis as an author I think of Cocteau, the French director who built worlds where poets were the rock stars of society. Francis does this with jockeys. Every time you open up one of his books, the jockey is on the highest echelon of culture even if the other characters don't realize this.<br /><br />Rat Race is either a fine place to start on Francis if you have not read him before, or it is one of his more captivating short novels if you are looking for a next title in the series. If you want his best book in my opinion, try 'In the Frame.'	2005-04-14
US	51140190	R24TF7FZ0D0KBQ	0441003389	602505473	Freedom's Landing (Freedom Series: Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I think this would be a good book for young adults	What was most fascinating about this book was that it started off almost in the middle of a story, as if you turned on the TV and watched a flick with out seeing the beginning. And then the book ended the same way, as if you turned the movie off with out seeing the conclusion. If I did not know that there were several other books in the series, I think that I would have been reviewing Freedom's Landing in a better light. I say this because this story felt more like a dream that you look back upon after waking. The beginning might be hazy and the end is where the alarm clock took over.<br /><br />This is a pretty crazy tale; aliens invade earth and round up slaves from major cities. They use whips to force people into the ships as if they were cattle. If you read the book think about how strange some aspects of her story are. The dialogue is pretty bad, but then again, I think she was aiming towards a younger audience than myself, so I forgive her for that.<br /><br />If you're looking for a good female science fiction writer and were seeing if McCaffrey was a starting point on that endeavor, pass her by for the time being. Instead concentrate on Connie Willis and her book 'To say nothing of the dog.'	2005-04-13
US	51140190	REN7O4TS5HDRZ	0441005314	26419470	Freedom's Choice (Freedom Series, Book 2)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	a goofy read for children	This is a story written so far out in left field that it is kind of entertaining. It is a space romance that is as hard hitting as a soap bubble.<br /><br />What made the first book in this series so interesting is pretty much lacking here. By this I am talking about the surreal dream like quality that pulled out unusual though inspiring visions to dawdle over. Instead we are presented with a story that follows the most predictable 'read it before' plot lines that seem to float by without struggle.<br /><br />This might be a good series to read with your kids, but you can find better books in that regards as well (Pullman, Harry Potter, Narnia, and Watership Down).	2005-04-13
US	51140190	R9L46RSB513QV	0312991428	61626848	Blue Horizon (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	same as the others in this series	My only problem, with this otherwise very readable work of fiction, is that Smith is not risking anything with this book. It is a fine adventure, extraordinarily well written, but predictable. Read it and have fun with a fantastic book, but make sure that you have read the first two (Monsoon and Birds of Prey) in the Courtney series first. The only discouraging thing about this book is that all three of these are pretty much the same book. They all share about the same plot and characters. So reading this epic tale was a bit of a let down because it would have been nice to have something other than a hashed over story that was very enjoyable the first time around.<br /><br />Sabatini's `Scaramouche,' written in the 30's is a great swashbuckling book that should be of interest to those who might be considering Blue Horizon. I highly recommend Scaramouche and don't think that you will be disappointed.	2005-04-13
US	51140190	RFJ4L7GDM5IXK	0804113580	304306669	Agatha Raisin and the Walkers of Dembley (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Read Agatha Raisin, but dont start with this book	I love Agatha Raisin. M.C. Beaton has created one of the finest character studies of small provincial towns I have come across. I've found myself laughing aloud several times with each book that I pick up and I bless Beaton for that.<br /><br />In her previous three stories, the mysteries have stood second stage to Raisin's interactions with people in the town. And that was just fine. But here it seems that Beaton is attempting to turn Raisin into a bumbling Mrs. Marple alluded to in every story. But it doesn't work. Beaton just can't set up a mystery on par with Christy and in her efforts to do so, Beaton sacrifices much of what was so enduring about her first three Raisin stories.<br /><br />I did not especially like this book though I plan on reading more Raisin novels in the hopes that Beaton once again captures the magic of her past triumphs.	2005-04-13
US	51140190	R1BNDJ3UBKFZ7H	0312168187	497375829	Dog Eat Dog: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fantastic!	This is a gritty novel. This book is almost without parallel and unlike any other crime fiction that I have had the pleasure to read. Don't think about it, buy it and read it. This is the best author writing hard-core fiction alive. This is Chandler's prot&eacute;g&eacute;e if you had to name one; only he is taking the side of the criminal here. This novel is hard, its like getting into a bar fight and being smacked around a few times.<br /><br />I am not too much up on giving away the plots in my reviews, especially if I enjoyed the book. Let me just say that this novel is hard to start. I think that is because it is so unusual. It kind of reminded me of Motherless Brooklyn in that way. The characters do not allow for very much in the way of empathy with the reader. But the writing does suck you in after a few pages and then you are hooked on a hard ride.<br /><br />Quentin Tarantino has said that Block is one of his many inspirations, and that is why I pick this novel up a few years ago. In fact I think Block was Mr. White or some color in his 'Reservoir Dog's' flick. So if you saw that film that is a good indicator as to what you will be confronted with here. Only instead of the restrictive nature surrounding a film (2 hours) Block takes his time and develops a character study any hard boiled writer should envy.	2005-04-13
US	51140190	R31OMKIBS1MGYU	0345422317	866931563	The Genesis Code	Books	3	2	2	N	N	this book was ok	I liked the start to this book. Other than the fact that Case chose to create a protagonist at the top of his field (the head of the greatest private eye firm in the world) the story moved along in unpredictable directions that made for interesting turns of plot. I did not like that Case built up a huge prologue that left the reader waiting for Lassiter (the main character) to catch up with where we were. The fact that he was head of Lassiter Associates also made it too easy for the guy to get out of his jams.<br /><br />The book really fell apart at the end and three stars might be generous just because it pisses me off to get 90% of the way through only to be confronted with a pat happy ending. I wont give away the plot, but it should leave you groaning with distaste. Lassiter is also pretty dry... two-dimensional. He does not grow or change. Reading this book is like seeing the latest James Bond flick, you know who Bond is and he wont be fleshed out during this film at all.<br /><br />I would recommend Harlen Cobens latest books, which were not perfect, but were of the same ilk as the 'Genesis Code,' (make sure that its not a Bolitar novel) or 'Mystic River,' which might be the top of the thriller genre at the moment.	2005-04-12
US	51140190	R32XP0YPBYLE1Z	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	3	5	N	N	If you have yet to read Willis, start with "To Say Nothing..	This is a pretty good read. I don't think that this was as care free or as complicated as her off the wall book 'To Say Nothing of the Dog.' I almost found myself giving this book a three star review until I realized that I was doing so because of how 'Doomsday...' stacked up against this other book.<br /><br />Unto itself, 'Doomsday' presents us with a fairly simple plot that ends up engaging the reader due to its stark though humorous take on the primary protagonists. I like how Willis does not pull any punches here and rams us through in a mainly unsentimental fashion.<br /><br />Unlike most science fiction Connie Willis really goes into great detail with her characters and the sci-fi part almost becomes a secondary factor. In fact, I can't think of another sci-fi author who manages to accomplish this feat. Perhaps two authors most akin to Willis would be Stabenow of the 'Shugak' mystery series and MC Beaton who writes the 'Agatha Raisin' books. I think that it is interesting that Willis brings this form of character development into this realm of fiction and I hope more Sci-Fi authors emulate her in regards to this in the future.	2005-04-11
US	51140190	R8OYPYW3GR2AM	0345435796	285378245	The First Horseman	Books	1	0	1	N	N	reading this is akin to banging your head against a wall	The premise of this story started off smartly. I was drawn in as a reader as Case set up an unusaul plot where the protagonist is in Russia to cover a minor story only to be pushed aside while his sources of information are taken away. But from this point onwards the story becomes painfully predictable as time after time Case takes the predictable rout. Finally the story completely falls apart and it was like when you watch one of those really bad action flicks where the hero saves the day time after time and its so stupid that you get a bad headache.<br /><br />I have read one other Case book I think, his \\"Kingdome Come\\" that was written under a psudo name, or maybe Case is the psudo name, I'm not sure. But what I am trying to say here is that 'Kingdome Come' was much better than 'First Horseman.' Its still a little corny, but it reads like a more contemporary Ludlum.	2005-04-10
US	51140190	R1DGTYHL48GI2T	031227002X	121845754	A Risk Worth Taking	Books	4	13	14	N	N	what a great meandering book	I didn't think that I would enjoy this book when I picked it up. And while reading it, I was amazed at how much I was getting into the story. I say this because it really lacks a driving plot. Maybe because I have read way to many mysteries and thrillers where its almost impossible to break the mold of tradition where you start in point x and end in point y that it was very enjoyable to be swept up in a story where you truly do not know what was going to happen next.<br /><br />The author, Pilcher also does a great job of second hand story telling. By this I mean he will have a character sit down say in a pub and tell an engrossing tale to another character which allows for the reader to be swept off on a tangent. I found that Pilcher really knows what he is doing when it comes to moving a story along and it was hard to put down this title because of that.<br /><br />Lastly, the only fault that I found here was that besides the main character 'Dan the Man,' the supporting cast was not fleshed out very well. I liked Dan and found him to be very human as he was undergoing a life transforming change. But the others in the book (his children, mother, wife, and acquaintances) were not pushed as far as they could have been. They change, but the change is too simple.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book.	2005-04-08
US	51140190	RKDSEFONIX3WZ	0804111634	294561434	Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	This is a great book, but not Beatons best	I started off with the second in the Raisin series 'Viscous Vet\\" and fell in love with the quirky world that Beaton has created here. I find myself in the minority of reviewers in not giving this book 5 stars and feel kind of like a lout. The only reason I can't give this 5 stars is that Her next couple of titles in the series are even better than this. I think that Raisin and the characters in the town only fully develop as the series progresses. Maybe reading 'Quiche of Death' after getting to know Agatha Raisin left me feeling that this first book was lacking some of the sparkle and digging humor found in later books.<br /><br />Agatha Raisin is one of the most human fictional characters that I have ever come across. She is full of rivaling petty emotions that add a depth of spirit seldom found. I highly recommend this book and feel that if you get sucked into the series you will have a whole slew of further titles to enjoy.<br /><br />If you liked this book and are wanting other authors that might have similar aspects, try 'Break Up', which is part of the Kate Shugak mystery series by Stabenow and builds up a town atmosphere similar to Beaton , Ann Perry's \\"Cater Street Hangman,' a mystery that is overshadowed by an impressive group of characters, or 'Practical Magic,' a book that is quirky and full of good fun in a somewhat different manner.	2005-04-06
US	51140190	R1EH9NHQPYLWZH	0449208672	120535270	The Cater Street Hangman	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Its hard to review this book	I say that this book is difficult to review primarily because I am looking at it on two levels. One, being the mystery that is sub par and does not engage the reader to any extent. I was left wondering whom it might be that was causing the ruckus on Cater Street till the very end, but it was an ending that was disappointing and I wont give it away here. I would give the mystery just 2 stars.<br /><br />On the other hand Perry has woven one of the most insightful studies on humanity into a mystery that I have ever encountered. I was struck time and again on how interesting and involved this book becomes with several characters, not just the protagonist. She brings an entire family into focus and rips away shrouds allowing for us to feel that they are all undergoing a transformation while the murders occur.  So the plot/character development behind the mystery was 5 stars all the way.<br /><br />This is the first Perry that I have read, and I am eager to devour the entire Pitt series. I would highly recommend this title and expect that her work will mature as she progresses.	2005-04-04
US	51140190	R3VVFPL1BKHB0P	0553279602	399886935	The Matlock Paper	Books	3	5	6	N	N	dated, though you will see signs of Ludlums future greatness	Aspects of this book are so stereotypically bad that it was difficult to get through at first. The whole drug scene that Ludlum builds up is laughably bad. Ludlum also builds up a militant anti white black underground that would strike any reader as offensively racist in other contexts, though in this over the top book it fits right in. I wasn't around in 1970 or when this book was published, so it might have seemed plausible at the time. But Ludlum has just tackled so many areas that now read as folly that it would be difficult to stretch your credulity to really get into this book.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong, I am a big fan of Ludlum's and have pretty much read most of his books (his Road books are awful in my opinion if that is saying anything). I think that he has perfected the man on the run scenario and some of his later works are pure popcorn fun. In Matlock I think that we are seeing Ludlum toying with an outline that he used several more times in later novels. At the same time, Matlock is sedated in comparison to his later books because the evil doer (whom I wont give away) is so out of left field and implausible that it makes me groan thinking about the entire plot.<br /><br />This is a pretty far-fetched book, and I think that 3 stars might be too generous. Try the Bourne Identity instead if you have yet to read Ludlum.	2005-04-04
US	51140190	R28HABRX74JABD	0440234697	666439399	The First Billion	Books	1	5	9	N	N	oh the pain	I had nothing else around to read while I had this in my hand, so I kept coming back to it and finished its pages. After a time it became a matter of testing my will power or seeing if I could triumph and prevail by plodding through this disaster to its end with out doing myself bodily harm.<br /><br />I finish many books that I am not overly fond of, but this has got to be one of the worst. From the very beginnings of this story we are confronted with a righteous protagonist with everything in the world. In fact, he is a dashingly handsome, brilliant young personable CEO of a company on its way to the top. Only he has made a mistake and gotten into bed with the evilest of flawed characters on a recent IPO. What unfolds is a dummingly stifling plot that wanders across the globe as our hero saves the day. What's really painful is the way his characters fall into the most obvious stereotypes.<br /><br />I think that Reich should give up writing novels and go work for DC comics. QUICK, go look for another book on your list and be thankful you did not buy this one.	2005-04-04
US	51140190	R1QRCP4DTRPSQF	0525948449	346222769	The Motive (Dismas Hardy, Book 10)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	this is a decent book	Lescroart has put himself into a bit of a bind. He has produced a series of books that have garnered an audience clamoring for encores. Because the characters are so dear to the author and have already achieved a superhero status of mythic proportions, Lescroart is unwilling to damage this fantasy land and the comic book protagonists are fully realized and do not grow. What I wrote here is kind of a slap in the face of Lescroart because two thirds of the book deals with Diz and Abe superficially suffering and undergoing superficial angst.<br /><br />A few spots in the book really work well. I was on the edge of my seat during the trial period as well as the investigative work that Abe undertakes. Which is saying a lot because at the same time the trials outcome was never in doubt due to a weak case and Diz's need to prevail and the seemingly effortlessness in which Abe navigates his way to the truth. It would have been nice if Lescroart had messed with the readers heads a little here.<br /><br />Lastly it would be nice if the plot line that Lescroart has been building up over a couple of books now would come to a head. This is in regards to when Abe, Diz and friends took on the evil doers of the SF police department and now feel a terrible guilt.<br /><br />It would be nice to see Lescroart set this series aside and write some stand alone books ala Harlen Cobin or Lehane and really explore the nuances of a character or two. In fact, I would wait on reading the 'Motive' and pick up a recent Cobin, a Lehane, a Lawrence Block 'Scudder' mystery, Hillerman, Hammett, Raymond Chandler, MC Beaton, or another author that you might have been thinking of.	2005-04-04
US	51140190	R1MMPQS7XWVF61	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	This book is GREAT!!!	Willis has written a masterpiece of science fiction. The story passes by light in its frivolity and charm. While it starts very slowly and a little tediously it casts a warm tender spell around the reader that one rarely encounters.<br /><br />Science Fiction fanatics might be a little taken aback by Willis' style that more resembles the writing of MC Beaton than Heinlein. The characters are precious and evolve with the passage of the tale, unfolding themselves along side the readers plodding gate through the pages. The story itself is wrapped around a puzzle that you will find yourself attempting to unfold. And all in all its just great fun.<br /><br />If you ever sign on and read this, thank you Connie Willis. Its a good thing that I don't know where you live, or I'd wrangle up a posse and force you to write every hour of every day.	2005-04-01
US	51140190	RJHI84QT4MHVM	0451211413	196048228	The Second Chair (Dismas Hardy)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	the author shows contempt for fiction	I just happened to pick this book up and read it without the preceding works in this series as a foundation. It might be that after reading all of his earlier books Lescroart's 'Second Chair' might be comfortable territory for the initiated. But as a stand alone book, this is pretty tired fare. The plot is far fetched and does not gel into the remotest idea of cohesion. The story bumps along from one character to the next like a bad auto accident. The characters are cardboard cut outs that are painful to imagine. And lastly the ending is a disaster of major \\"saw that coming\\" proportions.<br /><br />The writing style itself is not too shabby, though Lescroart could have whittled down the story by a hundred pages and lost nothing.<br /><br />Plainly, this is just a sub par Grisham.	2005-04-01
US	51140190	R2VVOZU78F94B7	0804105510	806661529	Billingsgate Shoal	Books	3	9	9	N	N	entertaining, but lacking in several departments	This novel reads like it would play on the telivision along side Magnum PI. Its fun, quick and light enough to pass the Wonder Bread test. The protagonist does have a human side, but he is not weak at all and it builds a wall between the readers empathy and the novel.<br /><br />If I were you, I would pass this up. It is very dated. It might have been cutting edge at one time, but it probably wouldnt even catch the time of day for the Edgar Awards these days.	2005-03-30
US	51140190	RHI34C41GOPH8	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a good book by one of todays best writers	This is not the finest work that Lehane has ever churned out. The Kenzie series is juvenile in comparison to such books as Mystic River. The protagonists in this series pretty much remain the same from one book to the next and are not deeply changed by the horrors that occur except on superficial levels. My other beef is that the characters are all so exceptional that triumph comes easily. But for purely escapist works of fiction, you can't get much better than this series.<br /><br />Lehane just might be the best thriller/mystery writer at work today. The only other author I could even come close to comparing him to is Block. Not that the two authors write in the same manner, but in that Lehane and Block have both pulled up the genre to its highest levels and shined brightly.<br /><br />If your looking for books similar to Lehane, I would recommend Harlen Coben's stand alone books (not part of the Simon Bolitar series).	2005-03-28
US	51140190	R10NSHS4OZTA25	1400043662	478155730	Kafka on the Shore A novel	Books	2	27	46	N	N	I love Murakami, But this book is not good	I have read over two thousand books and Murakami wrote probably my favorite all time novel (Wind Up Bird Chronicle). I went onto EBAY and found his works that are not available in the states. I say all of this so that you can see I am a Murakami fanatic and would love nothing more than a new great novel by one of my favorite authors. But this here is not a good book and I wish that I had not read it.<br /><br />This work does not hold together, it is a hundred little components that have been carelessly pasted together. Murakami's genius still comes forward time and time again, but frustratingly so. I think that Murakami just got plain lazy and did not undergo the rigerous re-writing period needed in order to bring his ideas out. And the shame of it is that Murakami's \\"effortless style\\" that is so appealing to the reader needs an iron hand to formulate.<br /><br />I think that the best way to read this book is to open it up at random, read a few passages, ponder it and then put it down. By this I mean to say that if you treat his prose here like poetry I think that you would get more out of 'Kafka'.<br /><br />Perhaps the main concrete complaint that I have here is that a certain sense of mystery is missing in this book. Murakami has lost a little of this in his last couple of books I think. 'Kafka' is filled with the possibility of mystery here, but it is all feeling so forced and expected. You might very well get quite a bit more enjoyment out of reading actual Kafka short stories. I would recommend his complete short story anthology, as most of his better ones are not in Metamorphosis. Other authors you might want to check out would be Helprin and his book 'A Winters Tale,' or a collection of Borges fiction (Borges is a little dryer than Murakami or Kafka, but very much on the same level). Lastly, if you have not yet read all of Murakami, you might want to find his own collection of short stories, he really shines in his endeavors regarding this medium.	2005-03-28
US	51140190	R1IPB469NDRW13	0948462280	978149637	Image on the Edge: The Margins of Medieval Art (Essays in Art and Culture)	Books	3	16	50	N	N	painful	I had to read this for a class. This is not for anyone unless you are searching for strict information. Camille manages to give countless astute observations that would be very helpful in building up a paper. But as historical book unto itself that guises itself as text interpreting Medieval Europe through rebellious artwork, it just doesn't hold much water. The confines here are soooooo narrow that unless you have already a great passion for artwork of this period you will be left quite numb.	2005-03-21
US	51140190	R1JC17MYDSCR21	0399142509	465118288	Breakup (Kate Shugak Mystery/Dana Stabenow)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	I very much enjoyed this book	Stabenow manages to capture perfectly the chaotic feel of Alaska life. I worked up there several summers and it felt like I was back in one of the frontier towns that I remember fondly. This is pretty far into the Shugak series, but a librarian recommended that I start with this book. I found that I did not need to read any of Stabenow's other books in order to fall in love with Shugak and the series. Since then I have pretty much read them all and I would say that none of them quite matches this one. So if you have not read any Shugak mysteries yet, this might be a good place to start.<br /><br />What's so unusal about this book while comparing it to both others in the series as well as other mysteries, is that it pretty much doesnt have a mystery. Instead what makes this such a fun read is that you are lead on an excursion into the life of the protagonist that is well worth following along upon.	2005-03-21
US	51140190	R1GB9UI9KQ8Q8B	0451210557	468712802	No Second Chance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If your into plot twists, this is for you	Coben is not a hard boiled mystery writer. His work is fluffy and a little too cute for my tastes. I have read pretty much all of his work, and I am glad that he is slowly evolving from his Bolitar series. The Bolitar work was so predictable and precious that it grates the nerves after a while, but Coben's stand alone work takes a few risks. His characters are more human though they are still not 'everyman.' It is interesting that he is becoming more and more like Dennis Lehane and I am looking forwards to seeing how, as Coben matures, his novels progress towards a state of literature grace that I am enviable of.<br /><br />My only real problem, as I mentioned above, is that the main character here is already a superman of sorts before the story starts. So the character does not grow. And maybe because of that, I did not relate to him and found him irritating at times. I kept thinking that this book clattered along like a great Hollywood action flick. The suspense never lets up and the story continues on well past the resolutions most lesser authors would stop with.<br /><br />I think that If you pick this up as an escapist novel, you will not be disappointed.	2005-03-21
US	51140190	R2272VYBIWURJX	0449006522	260503270	The Manhattan Hunt Club	Books	1	3	5	N	N	This is just plain bad	I thought that the premise of this story was pretty interesting. An original setting that could make for a great thriller as some man fights to survive in the tunnels under Manhattan while being hunted by ruthless corporate old money big wigs. But Saul just has to be about the worst writer in America today. I stuck with this tale just to see if Saul could wiggle his way out of a structural disaster that occurs when he gives about half the pages to a character (the father) that detracts and is un-needed. Saul manages to make it feel that this is the first draft we are reading. The ideas are not built up at all or lead into fruition except for the descriptions pertaining to depravity in a couple of his characters. This is perhaps the most half assed bit of piece meal cut and paste editing that I have ever come across. Very uninspired.	2005-03-21
US	51140190	R1FXDTGY6E8AQX	0441023622	385885559	Another Fine Myth (Myth, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	You or your child will be happy with this book	Another Fine Myth is a fun book to read for your child. If you have someone in your life that is about at the age where they might pick up Harry Potter or if they are looking for something akin to it, this is a good direction to turn. I feel that Asprin modeled these books on the old Hope and Crosby `Road' flicks. The banter between Skeeve and Aahz (the two main characters) is quite enjoyable. The worlds that Asprin creates are also very imaginative and fun to encounter.<br /><br />This is quite an engrossing book and wont tire you no matter what your age as long as you have a sense of humor and a bit of wonder left in your heart.<br /><br />Other series' in line with this would be the `Stainless Steel Rat' by Harry Harrison, and the `Xanth series' by Piers Anthony	2004-12-08
US	51140190	R1XCQFVWF9KAEY	0345455207	290935571	Utopia	Books	3	3	4	N	N	You wont miss anything if you skip this book.	When I picked this book up I thought that I was about to encounter the absolute worst premise of all time. All you have to do is read the dust jacket to groan with the possible clich&eacute;s that might run rampant throughout this book. I have read all of Lincoln Child's books co-authored with Douglas Preston and have found them for the most part to be entertaining. So I thought that regardless of what looked like a disaster of an idea, I would give this a go anyways.<br /><br />Surprisingly Child managed to craft a pretty taught though implausible thriller here. His characters are very one-dimensional and are not developed at all. But his use of the English language is remarkably well suited for this type of writing. He manages to craft a story that is quickly consumed and that keeps the reader plodding along in suspense. There is no originality occurring here, and at its core is a plot that is as old as the hills. But Child manages to keep the reader engaged through his expert grasp of suspense.<br /><br />I would like to see Child and Preston read Edward Bunker's `Dog eat Dog.' I would like for them to see how Bunker treats his protagonist and pull some aspects of this into their mainstream wonder bread characterizations. It would be unique and startling if they would combine the two.	2004-12-08
US	51140190	R1IUUWBXL7C0OO	044653143X	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast, Book 5)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	great fun, a page turning bit of fluff	Brimstone is a roiling good read. I have read all of Preston and Childs books. They for the most part had some potential but failed in the end to deliver. Their books are basically what you'd find in your usual page turning thriller. But these two throw in three locked door mysteries (ala Agatha Christy), several harrowing chase scenes (ala James Bond), three well-developed protagonists, several good villains, and to pull everything over the top, a salting of the dark arts. All together these ingredients set the stage for what is one of the best contemporary pulp reads I have come across. This is not Jim Thompson or Elmore Leonard who straddle literature while working in this genre. But it is akin to Grisham or Steven King and Dean Koontz, only better.<br /><br />Hey its great to see these two authors finally live up to their potential. My only criticism is that the protagonists are too precious to the authors, and it is starting to become inevitable that nothing bad will happen to them. I would rather see them write a stand-alone book again outside of this series where they could take some liberties with the main characters and not be afraid to rough them up. The entire time I read this book I felt like they were in no danger because they were needed for a sequel. Also, these two work much better together than separately. I hope for even better things on the horizon.	2004-12-08
US	51140190	R2OZ8I5N9SE8EJ	0061097845	224669426	A King's Ransom	Books	2	2	7	N	N	A pleasing uncomplicated excursion, it's not goodliterature	`A Kings Ransom' was all right. It read like Grippando was using Grisham as a template and layering that upon a kidnapping story. To keep the pages turning, Grippando adds generous doses of suspense and keeps several surprises in store for the reader along the way. What it all adds up to is a very predictable work no more challenging on the old synapse than an A Team re-run.<br /><br />I can't say just what it is that Grippando is trying to do as an author other than to cash in by writing very sellable, politically correct, and Hollywood style pulp. Obviously while you read this you will see that the author does not have an original thought in his mind. This novel reads like it was plotted out to fit around an interesting situation (the kidnapping) and then it became the authors responsibility to tie up the many loose ends in a satisfactorily uncomplicated manner.<br /><br />The prose and conversational aptitude occurring in this book are barely adequate to sustain a novel this size. The characters are barely fleshed out, not even the protagonist in this story. All in all I can't even really say anything very nice about this book other than it easily beckons the reader along by offering several sharp twists in the story structure. This is the kind of book that I would guess a cynical writer intent upon selling as many copies of his titles as is humanly possible.  Crass commercial drivel at its most hedonistic.	2004-10-11
US	51140190	R161HA0JJ1SG66	0446605387	684727727	Nocturne: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	its ok. nothing to write home about	Hey Ed McBain is a good author for what he does. I have read over a dozen of the 87th precinct books and have enjoyed every one of them. But when I start writing a review of a book I like to think of how it stacks up against other authors work. Not only that, but I like to think about how this book rates against another book in the same authors over all body of work. So while this is an elegant and simple book in its own right, it is not a literary achievement. In fact I would go so far as to relate this series of books against well-produced TV shows.<br /><br />This work has a lot in common with Hill Street Blues. Every episode is about like the last one, three stories interwoven in a tight no-nonsense style. All three stories unfold in an engaging though very expected manner. Because McBain is just churning this work out, I can't give it five stars. Very little sweat seems to go into his novels. He comes up with an interesting premise, works out a beginning and end, and then relies upon his underused gifts as an author to hold it all together.<br /><br />You will enjoy this book, or Ed McBain in general. I recommend him as a very light read. His work holds together and is more gripping than Grisham, Baldacci, most Stephen King's, and others of this ilk. Try Lawrence Block, Hammett, Jim Thompson, Dick Francis, Tony Hillerman, or Michael Connelly for a better read.	2004-10-11
US	51140190	R3G5TRWODAAB7	0061012513	317368412	Storming Heaven	Books	2	1	4	N	N	save your time, skip this book	This was the best of the three Kyle Mills books that I have read so far. That is not very high praise when you compare this title to such luminaries of mediocrity as `Free Fall,' and `Burn Factor.' `Storming Heaven' was written prior to the other two novels that I mentioned so it is a little disconcerting to see a de-evolution in Mills' work as the years go by. I haven't read it yet, but maybe `Rising Phoenix,' his first novel will turn out to be his best work.<br /><br />Storming Heaven is most definitely one of those books that it written with out passion by an author attempting to mold himself to the sure fire rout towards the bestseller list. Every tired and over used method to further along an uninspired plot is used here. I felt like I had read these pages many times before. To put this work into the best possible analogy that I can come up with, it was sort of like watching a re-run of one of those 1980's private eye t.v. shows where you know how it will work out before it even starts.<br /><br />The saving graces in this book are the protagonist, Mark Beamon who turns out to be better than your average hero type. This is an enjoyable character that is not fleshed out enough in my opinion in this novel. In fact that is the bothersome aspect of all Mill's characters here. It would have been nice to use the decent right wing religious conspiracy angle as a cover to explore a few of these persons in more detail. Instead Mills mistakenly believes that the Hollywood car chase clich&eacute; is where the strength of his story unfolds. It is not. Try Lawrence Block's `Scudder' series for some good contemporary tales that put Mills to shame. Or if you have not yet delved into Elmore Leonard, Dashiell Hammett's `Maltese Falcon,' any Raymond Chandler, or a good Jim Harrison, try one of these amazing authors instead.	2004-10-08
US	51140190	R2V78UPCRDNSXN	0060005548	852525868	Beyond Suspicion (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	sadly Grippando cops out again and writes a hack novel	This book starts off with a surprisingly unusual and seemingly original premise. The first fifty pages or so feel like one of the better Carl Hiaasen novels or an inspired Elmore Leonard work that teeters on the edge of chaos and anarchy. I was even holding out hope that in some way Grippando was about to lash out and surprise the reader by taking on a wholly unexpected supernatural aspect when we first encounter the main protagonist's wife. Grippando takes the first person point of view, but scatters it around half a dozen characters. This is a bothersome trick of the pen most half assed novelists use to push the plot along. In this novel it totally gets in the way of character development and gives the story a stale quality. Everything that occurs here could have been much more interesting if Grippando took one character and bounced the developments off of that person in unique ways (I am thinking of the `Wind Up Bird Chronicles' as an example here of an author who really knows what he is doing in this regard).<br /><br />What bugs me the most about this novel is that after the great opening, Grippando spends the rest of his time neatly wrapping up all of the loose ends he created. I wanted to scream at the author for chickening out and not pressing his imaginative abilities. What you have here is in the end a very predictable work of fiction that reads pretty well on par with the better Grisham and Baldacci. Its not terrible, but in the end it is a throw away hack job that won't remain fresh in your mind a week after you have read it	2004-10-04
US	51140190	R91ZFB66L9K34	0142000086	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	greatest novel ever?	I just wanted to put in my two cents here. (...) let me just say emphatically that it is. But... I would suggest that you not pick this book up lightly. It is a very stubborn work that in many ways is a precursor to the 20th century's flirtation with high literature. In many ways this book can be compared to the more stubborn works of Pynchon and Joyce in that you can read it over and over again and find an entirely new perspective in which to appreciate it every time.<br />I picked Moby Dick up several times only to be frustrated with its seemingly antiquated cadence and structure. Luckily for myself I found a reading group a few years back that was delving into some classics and Moby Dick happened to be one of these works. It made all of the difference in the world to have a knowledgeable leader of a reading group opening up discussions after every few chapters to discuss what we had read. After undergoing this experience and finishing the book I was and still am in awe of the majesty Melville attained in these pages.<br />Please, even if you are sure of yourself as a reader and scoff at my suggestion to use a reading group or class structure to enjoy this work, find a copy that will have a comprehensive `readers guide' in order to cast light on some of the complex and arcane references. This will be helpful if only to note how uniquely Melville manipulates the focus of his story and the characters contained with in.<br /><br />Enjoy this book, and please don't open its pages on a whim unless you have plenty of free time, patience, and a curiosity to uncover ideas or meanings that might not be so apparent at a first reading.<br /><br />------------------------------------------------------------------------	2004-10-03
US	51140190	R6T89XTL4PZXQ	067978327X	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	This very well might be literatures crowning work	I just wanted to put in my two cents here. If you are perusing these reviews under Moby Dick in an effort to see whether or not it is worth reading (which is why I personally scan these reviews) let me just say emphatically that it is. But... I would suggest that you not pick this book up lightly. It is a very stubborn work that in many ways is a precursor to the 20th century's flirtation with high literature. In many ways this book can be compared to the more stubborn works of Pynchon and Joyce in that you can read it over and over again and find an entirely new perspective in which to appreciate it every time.<br /><br />I picked Moby Dick up several times only to be frustrated with its seemingly antiquated cadence and structure. Luckily for myself I found a reading group a few years back that was delving into some classics and Moby Dick happened to be one of these works. It made all of the difference in the world to have a knowledgeable leader of a reading group opening up discussions after every few chapters to discuss what we had read. After undergoing this experience and finishing the book I was and still am in awe of the majesty Melville attained in these pages.<br /><br />Please, even if you are sure of yourself as a reader and scoff at my suggestion to use a reading group or class structure to enjoy this work, find a copy that will have a comprehensive `readers guide' in order to cast light on some of the complex and arcane references. This will be helpful if only to note how uniquely Melville manipulates the focus of his story and the characters contained with in.<br /><br />Enjoy this book, and please don't open its pages on a whim unless you have plenty of free time, patience, and a curiosity to uncover ideas or meanings that might not be so apparent at a first reading.<br /><br />------------------------------------------------------------------------	2004-10-03
US	51140190	R29YLSSBPZAU6I	0061012203	50102106	The Informant (v. 1)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A trashy story that was kind of fun to read	Hey... this book is ok. I am a tough critic and feel that three stars is what a well crafted though altogether unoriginal story deserves. This was fun to read... well not fun, but it was a book that was engaging enough to make me want to continue until the very end with curiosity as to how it would all play out. The sad thing about this book like so many others of its ilk is that it just is soooo predictable. Not that I knew what was going to happen at every turn. I didn't. What I mean is that the book plays along traditional plot lines to a crescendo and bingo, you have a new best seller. Grippando is an author who can write decently, it is just that he tries too hard to be conformist. If you are looking for the next Grisham or Baldacci try this one out and you won't be disappointed. For a better read along the same lines I would suggest Douglas Kennedy's first book \\"The Big Picture,\\" which was sadly overlooked at about the same time `The Informant\\" came along.<br /><br />  `Motherless Brooklyn' by Letham or `Dog Eat Dog' by Edward Bunker are two thriller/mystery genre books that I would rate at five stars if you would like to check out a title that I would truly recommend. They both take a more than slightly new take on the same subject manner Grippando is working with here.	2004-10-03
US	51140190	R32UR283P1EBHW	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	the greatest work of fiction ever?	I just wanted to put in my two cents here. If you are perusing these reviews under Moby Dick in an effort to see whether or not it is worth reading (which is why I personally scan these reviews) let me just say emphatically that it is. But... I would suggest that you not pick this book up lightly. It is a very stubborn work that in many ways is a precursor to the 20th century's flirtation with high literature. In many ways this book can be compared to the more stubborn works of Pynchon and Joyce in that you can read it over and over again and find an entirely new perspective in which to appreciate it every time.<br /><br />I picked Moby Dick up several times only to be frustrated with its seemingly antiquated cadence and structure. Luckily for myself I found a reading group a few years back that was delving into some classics and Moby Dick happened to be one of these works. It made all of the difference in the world to have a knowledgeable leader of a reading group opening up discussions after every few chapters to discuss what we had read. After undergoing this experience and finishing the book I was and still am in awe of the majesty Melville attained in these pages.<br /><br />Please, even if you are sure of yourself as a reader and scoff at my suggestion to use a reading group or class structure to enjoy this work, find a copy that will have a comprehensive `readers guide' in order to cast light on some of the complex and arcane references. This will be helpful if only to note how uniquely Melville manipulates the focus of his story and the characters contained with in.<br /><br />Enjoy this book, and don't open its pages on a whim unless you have plenty of free time, patience, and a curiosity to uncover ideas or meanings that might not be so apparent at a first reading.	2004-10-03
US	51140190	R9K6HK4DAZ5YM	0671025694	931118487	The Big Bad City (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	more of the same from the 87th precinct	If you have read McBain before, you will find more of the same in this novel. As usual in his 87th precinct works that I have read, McBain (pen name of the author) sets out what are basically three short stories that interlink and form into a short novel. All three of these stories are slick no nonsense to the point Dragnet style pieces. They are very readable and enjoyable. If you are a fan as I am and are looking for more of the same from McBain this book will not let you down. If you have not read McBain before, I would suggest that you start towards the beginning of his series even though you could jump in here and it would not effect the enjoyment this work offers in any way. That aside, I am only rating this work as a three star read because it is so formulaic. I can't bring myself to rate it any higher because I feel that the author is just churning this out without much thought (even though he does this quite well). This book is not high literature. It is just something, as are all of the books in this series, to pick up and enjoy for what it is, a mass produced work by a master in familiar surroundings.	2004-10-03
US	51140190	R3K9K8N6M3ZKZG	0061098035	303934244	Burn Factor	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Painfully bad plot	Mills seems to have a pseudo gift, that of being able to run the protagonists along through the unfolding story in a manner that is friendly towards the reader. His characters are as developed and deep as what you might expect from a Grisham novel. In fact the entire story concept could be interchanged with a thousand other uninspired novelists writing for what might sell in today's market. Plot and character here as flat as a cardboard sandwich. What does set this novel apart from the rest of the pack is unending sexual and gratuitous violence. This is one of the most horrific, blood thirsty, and grisly novels that I have ever come across. The victims number in the hundreds as a psycho killer rampages across the eastern corridor and it seems as though every single one of them was massacred in the same tedious fashion. The worst part is the predictable happy ending that ties the story neatly together. Something so outrageous as Mills' sick ideas deserves a more unique ending than this Dean Koontz rip off. (Can you believe that someone actually stated that Dean Koontz was being taken advantage of intellectually?) It would be nice if Mills manages to emulate authors who take risks. I think that he has it in himself to someday produce a book worthy of a human being and not focus groups might suggest. After all, I was able to make it through to the end of this drivel, and that was an accomplishment worthy of some note to the author's credit.	2004-10-01
US	51140190	R1UIN7X0EQVOZT	0517571749	731170827	Hockney on Photography: Conversations with Paul Joyce	Books	5	1	1	N	N	this is a must have hockney book	I have read all of Hockney's interview books that I know of. Also as an avid and harsh critic of books pertaining to artists I have to say that this one is a book that will not let you down. It is simple in that Hockney discusses his photographic work over a period of four or five years and several interviews. What is majestic about this book is that it quickly envelopes the entire spectrum of  painting, sight , and photography. Hockney talks about what it means to be an \\"artist\\" in the barest sense of the word. It is inspiring as well as insightful on several levels. If you get this book, you wont be unsatisfied.	2004-09-30
US	51140190	R3NYB9RTW36VG4	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	This is one of my all time favorite books	I just wanted to say that I have been an avid reader for fifteen or so years and have plowed through three or four books a week during this time. 'Wind Up Bird Chronicle' is a book that I read many years back and it is still fresh in my mind to this day. I think that is saying a lot for a book, that it will stick with you for such a long period of time. Over the years since I read Murakami for the first time, I have recommended this novel to over a dozen family members and friends. Pretty much universally they are all grateful for the nudge in this direction.<br /><br />The one drawback to this tale is the ending. And I say this as a cautionary note in that I did not mind it so much, but it was a little confusing. The protagonist enters a dream like sequence that becomes a little confusing, but if you read it with an open mind in tune with the complexities of the rest of this novel it will not detract overly from the perfection of the first 90% of the novel.<br /><br />This book is in many regards as complex as 'Moby Dick,' in that the story jumps around narratively from one plot line to another in a most elegant and pleasing manner. But whereas Moby Dick is best appreciated while reading it in a group in order to understand its nuances, 'Bird Chronicle' is exceedingly comprehensible and a pure joy to enter into. While you are reading this novel note how expertly Murakami shifts the focus in several different directions.<br /><br />I can't say enough good things about this book. After reading it I spent a great deal of time tracking down his books that were only printed in Japan as well as everything available in the US. Sadly, the complexity was missing in these other books that you will find here. I kind of consider this to be one of the five or six great post modern works of our time. One of the great things about this book is that it will charm you right from the very first opening paragraph. I wish I had it to read for the very first time again, count yourself lucky and pick up this book.k up this book. <br />	2004-09-30
US	51140190	R372SS415FPK4N	0671034731	931118487	The Big Bad City (An 87th Precinct Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	This is a read that I would recommend, might be 4 stars	The only reason I am being a little hard on McBain here is that one of his numerous Isola city crime novels melds into another with little to make any particular work stand out from the rest. As usual, this book is taught with fine prose and a couple different plots that weave past each other and develop without pain to the reader. As usual the plots are distinct and well scripted while being laced with tidbits of philosophical rumblings by the protagonists. McBain is in my opinion one of the more gifted writers of the last five decades, churning out enough material to encompass several careers. Only I don't think McBain is taking any risks here, he plays it safe and we get more of the same. So that is why I am knocking this book down a couple of notches. Its totally worth reading and I would say that you will not be disapointed by purcasing this book. Its just not ground breaking and I am being hard on the old guy because I think he has it in him to churn out a magnificent read if he desired.<br /><br />Lastly I would reccomend early Dick Francis novels or Johng MacDonald if you are looking for authors on par with McBain. They are different but similar in approach to their craft.	2004-09-29
US	51140190	R387IV56XABGQ0	0061098027	771444694	Free Fall	Books	2	0	3	N	N	a nasty bad plot that stumbles over itself	This book was pretty bad. I listened to it as a book on tape unabridged. In many ways this is a better format to enjoy a book than actually reading it in my opinion, so please don't groan and dismiss what I say because of that. The reason I say that I listened to this book is that it forced me to hear every single written word and I am sure that if I were to have held it in my hands instead I would have flipped past half the pages to figure out how it ended. What bugs me to no end about this book and the author is that he has taken a couple of ideas (a missing FBI file, a rock climbing lady, an honest FBI guy on the outs with the system, and crooked politicians) and then proceeded to play these against each other with reckless abandon. Mills pretty much tugs every possible tried and true method to further a weak ass plot. The end result is a painful display of shoddy writing that gives his genre a bad name.<br /><br />Tom Clancy actually gave this book a pretty good couple of review quotes and is mentioned on the books cover. I wonder how much he was paid to write a couple nice lines. In my opinion, Clancy wrote a few pretty good reads early on but has turned out some incredible trash as of late, and I say this because Free Fall is a lot like one of Clancy's later books. If you want a comparison, this might be an apt one. MIlls does have potential however, much of what he wrote was almost good and I look forwards to reading his work in a few years.	2004-09-29
US	51140190	R3009EFDAP1GGF	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Connelly's best work in my opinion	Blood Work starts off with an unusual premise and then continues to pull the reader in many unexpected directions throughout the reading. Connelly has a couple of flaws as a writer that shows up without fail in each of his books. That is the villains are pretty much the same from one book to the next and as a reader you get used to looking for what becomes obvious hints. Also he always turns the hero, in this case Terry McCaleb, into a victim. So you could say that every Connelly book is very formulaic. Which is too bad, mainly because Connelly's prose is by my standards up there with the best writers working this genre today, Maybe topped or equaled only by Lawrence Block and Tony Hillerman.<br /><br />What's great about this book and why I like it even more than the Bosch series is that it is toned down several notches. Not until the very end does it become super sensational and over the top. Not until the end does the formula completely take over in an attempt to neatly tie things up.<br /><br />I just want to say that it is a privilege to have so many great pulp fiction authors out in the world bringing entertainment to us masses. And I want to thank Connelly for being one of the better of these.	2004-09-29
US	51140190	R1L5KL6U3B19WS	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	2	7	14	N	N	I read this for the 2nd time and did not enjoy it very much	I read this book when I was a kid in junior high and thought that it was about as interesting as can be. I guess that as you age your tastes change and the need for solid prose becomes stronger. If you have a kid and are looking for a book to give them oriented in science fiction, I still believe that this would meet your criteria. But it still does not meet the standards of other fantasy writers who have come along over the last few years producing masterpieces for children that also engage adults. Rowling and Phillip Pullman both achieve very readable and very adult oriented works that surpass `Startide Rising.' Heinlein would be an author that I would throw out for someone who has yet to discover the joys of Science Fiction. I think that it is becoming difficult to find authors that transcend just plain bad writing and produce an engrossing work of SF. The last couple of generations have not produced many good writers in this regard. Brin is not one of these writers. As bad as `Startide Rising' was as an adult writer, it still surpasses his other work that won't allow for a reader to get past a few painful chapters before putting the book aside. This book does have an interesting take or two that alows for one to imagine, which is the key ingredient to SF in my opinion, but it is overshadowed by plain bad writing.	2004-09-19
US	51140190	R10APKMFTT019S	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	3	5	5	N	N	worth reading if you have read his better Bosch books first	This book started off interesting enough. I was engaged for the first few chapters and then it became very predictable and tired... as though Connelly were going through the motions after he set up an interesting premise. The characters here have nothing to do with Bosch in this book, but interestingly they find themselves in a later Bosch novel, I think it was `The Narrows.' Connelly seems to be enjoying combing his earlier work without Bosch and tying everything together, which is admirable.<br />I think that Connelly is getting to the end of his career as a writer. And this saddens me. Primarily because he never wrote a book that truly meets his talent head on. I wish that he had allowed for himself to struggle a little bit more as an author. I think that the great character known as Harry Bosch and all of the neat tied up ends of every book are fine and all, but it's not enough. Even though his stories walk the edge of something dangerous they never break any literary boundaries as Hammett and Chandler did in their own day. The Bosch works might even surpass these two luminaries in some aspects, but Connelly has had decades of other authors to feed upon and add to the flavor of his plots. Thus these books are slightly underwhelming. Besides Lawrence Block, I think that Connelly had one of the best chances to overcome the predictability of our contemporary thrillers. He has not yet done so. Instead he constantly tries to grapple with what I assume are his own doubts by sending every novel needlessly over the top into a stereotypical 1980's shoot-em out cop drama. So sad.<br /><br />This is a fine read unto itself, I give it three stars and think that if you have read the better Bosch books by Connelly, this book will not let you down too hard. In fact it is an enjoyable time consumer.	2004-09-17
US	51140190	R1PW5L117BRN4F	0340766018	857541992	The Night of the Triffids	Books	3	24	25	N	N	amazing start, danmable finish	This book started off damn well. I have to say that the first 100 pages or so clipped along at a very enjoyable pace. As the reader you will be unsure as to what is going on. The world is tumbled into a blackness that is unexplainable and the plot takes on a charm that snakes you in. What I want to do is take the author by the lapels and slam his head into a post or dense wall. His prose is elegant and engaging far past expectations. In fact I'd have to say that for the style of writing he is engaging in, his skills in this regard are enormous. What I cant stand, literally want to yell at the guy over, is that this book became one of the most tired, predictable, unimaginative works of fiction that I have come across. Maybe I am being too hard on the author, but to take such a grand start and end up with a novel that I have read a thousand times before is almost inexcusable. I am rating this book at three stars, mainly because it starts off like a Kafka or Philip K Dick gem. Once the protagonist is rescued from his island it all goes down hill fast, so you might want to read this as a short story and leave well enough alone at this point.	2004-09-17
US	51140190	R2TM3FQRGNT0DQ	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	2	6	7	N	N	pretty bad	This book is completely uninspired. Huge swaths of pages are almost unreadable. This is fiction at its worst, pressing every button to garner the highest thrill quota. Patterson does do a little better with his following novels `Kiss the Girls,' and 'Jack and Jill,' and this is his first novel I presume from over ten years ago, but it pales in comparison to some other better works. Try Jim Thomson, Edward Bunker, or `Silence of the Lambs' (Which Patterson sadly rips off left and right here).<br /><br />This book leaves a disgusting film over the reader's cerebral cortex. Its only saving grace is an interesting twisting plot line that really packs a well thought out wallop.<br /><br />Read the two in the series that I recommended and stay away from the rest of Patterson's toxic waste land.	2004-09-07
US	51140190	RGWCNYHDPOD9N	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	this was an entertaining read	Bosch comes back to the job after a leave of absence lasting just over a year. His house that was destroyed in a quake is back, as is a flame from an earlier book. But I am not on rehashing plot lines.<br /><br />This book is quite fun, I read it three days ago however and it is already starting to dissipate from my mind. So beyond entertainment used to divert ones attention or occupy a few hours, this is a light though enjoyable read. As always, Connelly is only a step or two away from creating something quite original with his work. As an author however, Connelly plays it safe and gives us the traditional tried and true plot line. What makes this book and series stick out from the rest is his unique banter and personal peccadilloes between his characters. I wish Connelly would read some of our contemporary literary luminaries stemming from Carvers influence and then turn around and reshape the mystery thriller in a similar fashion to Lawrence Block and his Scudder adventures.<br /><br />Read this series in order to obtain the maximum enjoyment.	2004-09-07
US	51140190	R150XWAT3I0SSJ	0425144429	520292898	Mr. Murder	Books	1	1	5	N	N	close to unbearable	This is not Koontz's best work by far. As usual, Koontz uses his traditional tried but true plot line that comes close to being remarkable as Kafka and Phillip K Dick, only to slip into politically correct mushiness. This book could be viewed as a Christian inspirational text rather than a horror novel. It is always fun to start Koontz's novels because the ideas are strong as always. But it just doesn't follow through with any originality. \\"Fear nothing,\\" and \\"Seize the Night,\\" and \\"Intensity,\\" are my favorite Koontz novels, and would recommend these before `Mr. Murder.' This isn't his worst novel; it just jellies into a pile of sameness with the rest of his gibberish.	2004-09-07
US	51140190	R17MQPAJ37IHSI	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The best Bosch novel?	The Last Coyote might be the best of Connelly's Bosch series. I hesitate to lay such a claim upon this book if only because it does have some weaknesses in that there is much in the way of unnecessary plot additions here. A love affair that is tired and stalls the stories development comes to mind. Later in this series, you will find tighter stories, but they run into the far fetched over the top sensationalism that makes these books read like a Hollywood blockbuster rather than a serious crime drama. With that aside, I whole-heartedly recommend this book. You should enjoy it for the guilty pleasure that it is. I would say that you should build up to it, don't skip the first books in the series. It is not necessary, but  it adds quite a bit to know Bosch's past history.<br /><br />Try Hillerman or Block for consistent good books in a mystery series, or `Becker's Ring,' by Steven Martin Cohen for a good mystery read. On the more adult side try Quincunx by Palliser or `Wind Up Bird Chronicle' by Murakami. Try Hammett, Chandler, Jim Harrison, or Edward Bunkers Dog Eat Dog. These are all mysteries that are a little more serious and just as enjoyable as what Bosch offers.	2004-08-28
US	51140190	R2OS7ZEK8LKLB1	006109918X	552690770	Talking God (Jim Chee Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	an average Hillerman addition to his great series	Chee and Leaphorn travel to Washington DC in an attempt to uncover mysteries that nag upon their souls. I won't talk very much about the plot. I am sure that if you read other reviews here you will pretty much satisfy your needs in that regards to your content. What I will say is that this novel is pretty much the same as every other Chee/Leaphorn duo in the Hillerman archive. Both of them stumble across something that isn't right, and as they work towards solving their problems, their work gets intertwined. After reading this scenario a dozen times, it becomes a bit tedious. Especially when Hillerman stretches plausibility. This work contains characters and plots that read like a fantastical comic book. The main evildoer is so typical that it is hard to take him seriously.<br /><br />  The only good thing about this book is the personal interactions with Chee, Leaphorn, and Janet Pete (Chee's current love interest). I would have enjoyed this book a lot more if it played up primarily personal dealings with these three characters and others along the way while playing down the tired mystery that sadly overwhelms these pages.	2004-08-17
US	51140190	R1G2W83MCFXX7E	0451168429	737730936	Depraved Indifference (Signet)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	poor addition to the Karp series	Ohhh the pain of reading such poor prose wrapped up in the guise of a second rate novel by yet another lawyer who thinks he is a writer. I am not a writer myself and don't think that I could do much better.<br /><br />For some reason that I can't remember anymore, I enjoyed picking up a couple of the books in this \\"Karp\\" series a couple of years before. Now that I am picking up the one or two loose books that I missed the first time through, I find myself often gazing off into the nothingness before me in horror. I think to myself, how could I have enjoyed these books the first time around?<br /><br />Well. This review might piss you off, but I am being honest when I say, stay away from this book. Stay away from this series. It's implausible, and stale, as if Tanenbaum is going through the motions as he gets another chapter in his moneymaking machine out to the public. This is like the Hardy Boys for adults, or high school age children still fed with the pap of TV plots and Hollywood films. Yes, this is only the second book in the series. And yes, when it came out this was not yet a money making machine. But it feels like Tanenbaum thought about what it would take to make such a machine, and that this is just the second installment on the road to riches.<br /><br />The plot of this story is very very confused. Tanenbaum follows Butch Karp, a criminal prosecutor for the city of New York, his co-workers in the office, his wife (think Angela Jollie in that video game based movie she was in), her kid (smartest kid the world has ever known), her friends ( a mysterious cop who loves her, more), a host of bad guys, a host of government interceders... it goes on.<br /><br />Try Hillerman or Block for consistent good books in a mystery series, or Lehane for a good mystery read. On the more adult side try The James Deans by Reed Coleman or `Wind Up Bird Chronicle' by Murakami. Try Hammett, Chandler, Jim Harrison, or Edward Bunkers Dog Eat Dog. Just pause before you read this book.	2004-08-13
US	51140190	R1O2OIKAX6LSTH	0446612731	498818576	The Black Echo (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	not a masterpiece, but a good fun introduction to Bosch	This is the first and one of the best of a fine series of books written by Connelly. Bosch, a detective on the outs with his LA police department, stumbles into a mystery surrounding the death of an old Vietnam mate. This story unfolds many layers of complex plotting that does not feel contrived or pander to the sensational Hollywood over the top sensationalism... well not too much anyways. Instead, Connelly weaves a tale that harks back to the sensibilities of Hammett and places this into a mid 80's mindset that works pretty well.<br /><br />I would like to have had this story delve into the character of Bosch a little more, either through conversation or thought. It was a little on the cardboard side of character development. Instead, Connelly holds the reader with his nifty plot. That is why I am marking this book down a bit as far as my review goes. If you read the entire series, Bosch starts to develop, and as a reader you will enjoy the plots that blossom in one novel and take fruition in another. This series is definitely worth reading if you are looking for one, and I would give it five stars as a whole. It might be that only Hillerman and Block (Scudder) have better serials that this.	2004-08-13
US	51140190	R3BS7VXCV0RLKV	0312871996	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	2	2	6	N	N	good idea, but thats about it	I have enjoyed Clarke at times. 'City and the Stars,' or Rendezvous with Rama.' This idea here is a great one, looking back in time with the use of a worm hole. I also like his further exploration of ideas explored in 'Childhoods End.' What you have here is one of the two most important aspects of Science Fiction portrayed in all of its magnificence. A good idea to wrap the story around. But the characters or the means these two authors use to get the idea across feels academic. Because of the stiffness and secondary nature of the story, it is almost unreadable.<br /><br />If you want a good story, skip this book. If you are looking for a great science fiction idea, this is a five star read.	2004-08-05
US	51140190	R2JUZB554TF6TJ	0515086894	253241306	Cancelled Czech	Books	2	0	0	N	N	decent fun read	Reading this book was an enjoyable endeavor. It is not nearly close to Blocks better works and the only reason I would recommend this title is if you have become so engrossed with his Matthew Scudder novels and need something to ween you from the series after finishing them all. What you have here is a 1960's james bondish farce. Robert Ludlum wrote some similar works in the 1970's, his 'Road to Gondolfo' for instance. The film version of 'Casino Royal,' or 'Our Man Flynt,' would be other comparisons. This book is better than all that I mentioned above, but it still lacks the edge of the better Scudder work.<br /><br />Granted, this book was published almost forty years ago according to the copyright date, so it must be one of Blocks first books, and that is almost the only reason to be kind with it.<br /><br />I am not saying much about the plot here, it is your typical prisoner breakout spy thriller with a ironic humorous tilt. Very unplausible and in many ways terrible outside of the fun banter lacking in Block's later work. Even surpasses the Burglar series humor wise, but lacks the Agatha Christie plots. Dont read this if you have yet read much of his other work. He has about thirty better books.	2004-08-05
US	51140190	R1RKULAG65E24Y	0870700405	681664655	Fashioning Fiction In Photography Since 1990	Books	5	4	4	N	N	this book is great.	What a great book. I was a little hesitant over how I would receive and enjoy this book at first, but after having leafed through its pages several times now I realize that this is exactly what is cool about narrative art today. This book does not contain the fine artists Crewdson, Garfield, Wall, or the young Yale ladies, instead it surveys in many ways the influence these artists, and the movements they are following, are having on fashion photography. And vice versa. What I have to say is that many of the photographers I did not know of before opening this book are just as good as anyone out their.<br /><br />Philip Lorca diCorcia and Nan Goldin are well known artists in their own right and you will see them in this book. DiCorcia's work is interesting in that this is not what I would expect to see in a gallery judging from his earlier work. But it is pretty interesting and a new avenue for the guy. The better showings by artists here are those I had never heard of. There is some twisted stuff here. Not violent, but subversive 1950's post modern irony.<br /><br />Hey, this is a great book. You will find yourself pulled back again and again. And the best thing is that it is easy to enjoy. Much more so than many other recent surveys that tackle the fine arts.	2004-08-02
US	51140190	R3LBQ06C06OWCW	0714843113	406755349	Cream 3	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	disappointed	This third volume of the Cream series disappointed me. I say this mainly because this book gets bogged down in either conceptual ideas that are less than grandiose or curatorial/theoretical high-mindedness that trumpets the intelligence and sensitivity of those compiling the list. Instead of looking at emerging artists either from the markets point of view or as those new artists inspiring other artists, this book becomes about as flat and appealing as rusty water.<br /><br />Its one saving grace is that it is bringing dozens of artist's attention for the first time in a major publication. And even if these artists' work for the most part is less than overwhelming, it is interesting to explore their work. Maybe not enough time passed between the first, second, and third Creams to allow for the quality found in the first two. But I suspect it was primarily those that did the compiling this time around that are to blame for the damaging of an otherwise fine series.<br /><br />Try Vitamin P or the earlier Creams if you are interested in a contemporary art survey.	2004-08-01
US	51140190	R3PGS0LHRP0IKB	0446613266	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross #8)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	nasty drivel	this is a terrible book. I was enchanted by Kiss the Girls and a couple other early Pattersons. Save your memories of what was a taught set of thrillers. This book sucks.<br />I have read well over a thousand books in my time and this has to be about the worst one that I have made it through. In fact If I had to list my 'worst ten reads,' this one, along with Patterson's Angle series would rank highly upon it. Why do you keep reading Patterson? you might ask. Well, I have the bad habbit of picking up whatever is around at any given time and seeing it through. Usually what hooks me is the plot and my desire to see how the author constructed it. So I keep stumbling across Pattersons work, after all his books allways end up on the best seller lists and are easily available. What continually grabs my attention with Patterson is the feeling that I am witnessing a catastrophic train wreck.<br />I read in some article that Patterson works with several co-authors. Maybe that is why this work feels so much like a consensus and uninspired.	2004-01-09
US	51140190	R3MIRGEQORIK30	0446604437	88046951	Becker's Ring	Books	5	0	0	N	N	good book	I enjoyed this book, and I want to read more. Could someone leave more titles by this author in another review? Or how I could find them, for they seem to be out of print?  Thanks<br /><br />===<br /><br />OK, after a decade, I tried to re-read this story. I also got another of this authors books. Tried to read it...<br /><br />This is one of the first genre books I read. Since then, I have seriously read over 1000 of them. My taste has matured. I wouldn't give this a five star review today.	1999-11-22
US	51140190	R3PA1YO6NMS9M8	0688116213	119737607	Awakening Earth: Exploring the Evolution of Human Culture and Consciousness	Books	5	5	6	N	N	(a peek at the next step of human evolution)	I was happy to have stumbled across this book. Inside its bindings lies a thoughtful look at where the evolution of our speciese has come from and where it is going. Spiritualy, physically, and Meta-fully.  Worth  reading for purly new ideas.	1999-07-24
