US	51147050	R15VRDCTY7V4U3	0446531421	432548907	Still Life with Crows (Pendergast, Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not for the Birds�Or the Fainthearted	Move over, Stephen King!  Preston and Child have created a horror story that will stand right along those of the master.  The Kansas community of Medicine Creek, in the midst of the tall corn, is rocked by the discovery of a mutilated body staked out in a circle cut in the cornfield, surrounded by the bodies of crows impaled on a matched set of authentic Native American arrows-worth, it is discovered later, many thousands of dollars.  Small town sheriff Dent Hazen has enough trouble coping with this one murder, but then there is another, and another, and ...  Showing up to help is vacationing FBI special agent Pendergast, who is as weird as the situation.  Dressed always in a black suit, demonstrating impeccable manners, riding in to town on a bus and then walking to reach his destinations, Pendergast both confounds and amazes the sheriff and the townspeople.  Amazement moves on to irritation on the part of Sheriff Hazen when Pendergast employs punk-dressing juvenile delinquent Corrie Swanson to be his driver and assistant while he is in town.  Pendergast is as disconcerting to the reader as he is to Sheriff Hazen and the citizens of Medicine Creek.  He is obviously wealthy, well educated, and it is established that he is a multi-decorated legend in the FBI.  He is also something of a very tolerant stuffed shirt.  There are also digressions to a friend of his, an antiquities specialist, who is cataloging the myriad of collections in a closed New York mansion, which is apparently Pendergast's.  There are creepy situations there that are never explained, and are not pertinent to the story line at all.  The story line in Medicine Creek needs no enhancement.  Ancient legends and curses, massacres, family feuds left over from bootlegging days, and municipal rivalries all become pertinent as Pendergast, Hazen, Corrie and others wade through multiple and grisly homocides to reach an exciting (and bloody) finish deep in the bowels of Kraus's Kaverns.	2003-06-20
US	51147050	R29BHL7FF5C04E	1400060036	721149356	Dead Aim: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Right on Target	Robert Mallon is content with his life.  A millionaire as a result of hard work and accidental perfect timing when his divorce forced him to sell off his homebuilding business, he lives quietly on the California coast.  Then he sees a beautiful young woman walk into the ocean and attempt suicide.  He rescues her, but then she goes away and is successful on the next try.  Haunted by his inability to reach her, and by unresolved issues from his sister's suicide years before, he begins to investigate the young woman's life in an attempt to understand why.  The investigation raises even more questions, and then his friend who is helping is killed, and someone tries to kill him.  The result is an intense, gripping story.  There may be flaws: maybe one or two coincidences that strain the suspension of disbelief, and a middle-aged somewhat sedentary man is unlikely to be able to foil the machinations of young, trained, dedicated, and psychopathic killers.  Still, the story captures the imagination and the skilled writing captures the attention.	2003-06-20
US	51147050	R3KXAZIR6ELRMA	0743453956	213780897	Executive Power (Mitch Rapp )	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Power Trip	A stand-alone sequel to Separation of Power (October, 2001), Executive Power continues the adventures of Mitch Rapp, an American James Bond.  Brought in out of the cold after his earlier adventures, Rapp is a counter-terrorism expert for the director of the CIA, with direct access to the President.  He is also a newlywed, and finding it difficult to dash off for a clandestine operation without creating waves at home.  His boss, whose confirmation as the first female CIA director was the primary plot line for Separation of Power, and his wife are conspiring to house train the macho field operator.  The plot line in Executive Power is actually two different operations.  One is the rescue of a US family taken hostage by terrorists in the Philippines, and the other is the search for a Palestinian terrorist who is trying to force the creation of a Palestinian state-by some very traditional and some very unusual means.  I found the dual story line a little distracting.  It is almost as if Flynn had the Philippine story in mind as a separate novel, but then decided to wrap it up into another one.  The Palestinian story line is excellent, with lots of twists, turns, and betrayals.	2003-06-19
US	51147050	R3BBH0NLREHILT	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Different, But Not �Boaring�	For the dedicated Hillerman reader, this latest may be disappointing.  We have become accustomed to excellent mysteries which are also anthropology lessons.  In almost if not every story of Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee, Tony Hillerman has presented his readers with lessons about many facets of the southwestern Native American culture, the problems this culture faces.  This novel is more a straight thriller, without significant overtones of cultural stress and adaptation.  The basic plot line does have a Native American connection.  It seems that the Department of the Interior is responsible for a trust fund for Native Americans.  The trust is where royalties and other payments for oil, gas, timber, and other sales from reservation lands are deposited so that the money can be used for the benefit of the tribes.  It also seems that tens of billions of dollars which should be in the trust are not, and there doesn't seem to be any explanation.  A senator hires a retiring CIA specialist in pipelines to investigate what is happening in the \\"four-corners\\" territory, especially as it related to activities of a billionaire recluse who may be dabbling in hard drugs as well as petroleum.  The implication is that the billionaire is diverting gas and oil from the pipeline and avoiding paying royalties-or anything else.  The covert investigator is found murdered on the reservation and Jim Chee is the investigating officer.  But the FBI claims jurisdiction, transfers case management to Washington, and then stonewalls.  Chee wonders why the apparent cover-up and keeps on digging.  Enough waves are made that DC people involved in investigating the trust fund situation wonder if there is a connection and ask Joe Leaphorn, now retired, to look into the case.  What follows is a very good thriller, with unlikely \\"heroes\\" and bad guys getting their just desserts.  The implications of Washington insider conspiracies are raised but never resolved; yet, while not quite up to Hillerman's stories which do have stronger cultural lessons, this is a very good book.  PS: the sinister pig is not Native American but pipeline related.  Read the book to find out what the title reference is about.	2003-06-17
US	51147050	R1040QBFF0W247	0446530689	792252776	The Protector (Morrell, David)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who Will Protect the Protectors?	Cavanaugh is a \\"protector\\" not a bodyguard!  Bodyguards are thugs, crude muscle.  Protectors, or protective agents, employ sophisticated talents and techniques.  That point established, Cavanaugh is assigned to bring in a prospective client, who wants to completely disappear.  As he does, he and client Daniel Prescott are attacked and almost taken.  It seems that Prescott is a chemist and has developed a compound that creates and extreme panic reaction when someone breathes it.  They become uncontrollable and often violent.  He tells Cavanaugh that a Colombian drug lord is after him to get the formula.  They escape, unite with a full protective team, and reach a hideout.  Then they are attacked by what can only be military special operations forces-who want to kill Prescott, not capture him.  And Prescott starts killing the protectors before fleeing with the beginnings of his new identity. Only Cavanaugh escapes, and thus begins the tale.  And quite a tale it is.  Morrell has done an exceptional job of building suspense and creating twists and turns in this action adventure thriller.  Cavanaugh has been exposed to the fear chemical, and dreads the long term effects.  He must find Prescott to get the antidote, and also evade both foreign agents (not druggies) after the chemical and rogue US forces trying to kill Prescott to cover up their black project.  He knows what Prescott has been told about making a complete disappearance, and also what kinds of books and videos he had picked to entertain himself in his original hideout.  With these clues he is on his way, seeking his own survival as well as payback for his murdered friends. This is a real page-turner.	2003-06-09
US	51147050	R338K171TF2553	0743448979	923125003	A Dab of Dickens & A Touch of Twain: Literary Lives from Shakespeare's Old England to Frost's New England	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Dash of Biography &amp; A Touch of Wit	I really didn't know what to expect when I picked this book up.  A friend heard the author lecture on Shakespeare and bought a copy for our daughter, a Ph.D. candidate in English (Shakespeare).  She sent it to us to deliver, since she didn't have our daughter's address.  My wife and I both read a little bit, and then decided we had to read it all.  Our daughter will have to write a thank-you for a used book.<br /> Engel belongs to the school of biographical literary criticism, and thinks that authors' works are influenced strongly by their lives and the times in which they live them.  The brief, and partial sketches of these nineteen literary greats are based on his classroom lectures.  All I can say is that I wish he had been one of my teachers.  These lectures in writing are cleverly written, with a very pleasing dry wit, and are informative while being interesting.  Do you know the origin of the term \\"box office\\" and the actors' wish to \\"break a leg\\"?  You will after you read Engel's snapshot of Shakespeare.  And no one ever told me before that Chaucer was satire.  Finding this book was a fortuitous accident.  I hope my daughter enjoys it as much as I did.	2003-05-26
US	51147050	R3C3Y9HPDJMIXI	0399149805	55912034	Skyhook (Nance, John J)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Hook Gets Set Slowly	John Nance has given us several lawyer/aviation stories, beginning with the excellent Pandora's Clock about disease spreading quickly worldwide through airline travel (SARS anyone?).  Many of his books have been suspenseful and gripping.  Some have not been as good as others.  Skyhook, unfortunately, tends more to the latter than the former.  The first half is a very slow read, and I came close several times to putting it down.  I persevered, however, and was satisfied at the end.<br /> This book is more lawyer than aviation, and the protagonist is neither.  April Jensen is a cruise line executive based in Vancouver.  Her best friend and almost-sister is a young, rising lawyer with a prestigious Seattle firm.  Her father is an airline captain who owns a restored, made into a recreational vehicle, WWII flying boat.  When her parents disappear  while flying in Alaskan waters, April practically has to force authorities to make a search.  When they find her parents afloat in a life raft nearly dead from exposure, her pressure appears to have been justified.  Then a belligerent FAA inspector accuses her father of all sorts of violations, including drinking, and gets his license revoked.  This is serious, because flying is not only his occupation, it is his life.  The lawyer friend becomes involved to try to save his career.<br /> Meanwhile, there is a secret Air Force research project going on, to create the computer software and links to enable a ground-based pilot to take control of a plane in flight, ostensibly so that a plane with incapacitated pilots can be landed safely.  The civilian applications post 911 are obvious, but not stated until later.  The project is in trouble, and the chief software developer is having real concerns about sabotage.  These two plots just avoid a midair collision, and merge into a common trajectory, with a smooth three-point landing.  You may have to buckle your seat belt to get to the ending, but on the whole, this is a good read.	2003-05-19
US	51147050	R3F7JG9RUS8T0J	0765301881	799894693	More Than Courage (Coyle, Harold)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Appropriate and Timely	We have enjoyed many Coyle novels, starting with Team Yankee and including the several stories relating the military career of Scott Dixon, and even his son.  He has done a wonderful job of describing the professional soldier and his (and her) sacrifices to defend the United States.  More Than Courage may be his best, possibly excepting The Ten Thousand.  In this novel he describes the relationships which develop within a unit and the loyalties between warriors, as well as the travails of prisoners of war in the modern era.<br /> Coyle's prescience is amazing.  Published in April, 2003, as the major fighting of Operation Iraqi Freedom is ending, this book eerily describes an environment where US special operations units are operating in Syria to identify and locate chemical and biological weapons sites hidden in Syria as the Saddam regime ended in Iraq.  A Syrian patrol happens upon a recon team as it is deployed around a potential site, breaks up the team's operation, and captures several of its members.  The story relates the capture, the aftermath for the team members, and the efforts to obtain their release, ending finally with a rescue operation.<br /> In relating this story, Coyle is most critical of the media and the way some of them ignore any traces of taste or judgement in their drive to get a story.  He is also critical of the way the media may drive and bias an event in order to generate more drama-assisted by politicians whose major concern is getting in the news.<br /> More than Courage is a good story, and will be still be a good read next year.  But the timing of its publication makes it a fitting tribute to POW's returning now, and those still missing.  There is no way we can offer sufficient tribute to POW/MIA's.  As Bill Fornes, a Korean-era POW, related in telling his story (Walking Through a Spider's Web, 2001), he was prepared to die for his country-he was not prepared to be a prisoner of war.	2003-04-25
US	51147050	R2704A6552LS4A	1403384703	294567967	Comfortably Numb	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Title Misleads	While the state of comfortable numbness may be an appropriate description of USAF personnel doing long shifts on JSTARS or AWACS, that description does not apply to readers of Guy Jones' book with that title.  Numb, maybe, over the first pages as Jones sets the stage a little slowly; but never comfortable and definitely not numb over the entire book.<br /> The promotional blurbs on the cover liken this book to the \\"techno-thrillers\\" of Tom Clancy and Dale Brown.  I disagree.  There is technology: JSTARS and AWACS do their job using very sophisticated technology, but the technology is pertinent to the story only as necessary for a thriller set in that environment.  I liken this story more to the \\"anxiety dreams\\" of Robert Ludlum, but where Ludlum was the suave sophistication of Cary Grant, Jones creates a situation with more of the down-to-earth coping of Andy Griffith.<br /> Two college friends, different genders but with no sexual relationship (her doing, not his), go into ROTC and JSTARS/AWACS training together, and are assigned together for duty.  Their on-the-job mentor and training officer is more than a little weird, and definitely on the outs with their commanding officer.  They all end up on a mission where the fan starts being pelted.  Their ensuing adventures, blundering through a Ludlumesque environment, end up exposing a major international plot.  All's well that ends well, and the characters go off to live happily ever after-or do they?<br /> This is a great read, and I look forward to more-either the continuation of this story as set up very well by Jones, or something new.  Based on this book, either will be welcome.	2003-04-24
US	51147050	R3VNT4S50J7VMN	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Ride the Rails to Romance	Many writers notable in one genre seem to want to try their hands in another.  It does seem strange for a best-selling author of hard-hitting action-adventure and suspense to put out a sweet little Christmas romance, but that is what David Baldacci has done - and done very well.<br /> Journalist Tom Langdon enjoyed being a foreign correspondent, working at the cutting edge of war, famine, pestilence, and terrorism.  He enjoyed it so much that when his lover, soul-mate and fellow correspondent Ellie wanted to quit, he just let her go.  After the glamor died for him, and he returned to the states for much more mundane writing assignments, he missed her, but couldn't bring himself to admit error and seek her out.<br /> Now its almost Christmas, and Tom is on his way from Washington to Los Angeles to meet Lelia, with whom he has a generally satisfactory part-time and long-range relationship, for the holiday.  However, because of an episode where he vigorously expressed his resentment about being hassled by an airport security guard, he is banned by the airlines from domestic flights.  So he decides to take the train, and maybe get an article about the experience.  And an experience it is!<br /> Tom meets many interesting people on his journey, not least of whom are the train crews who embody the best of an old fashioned customer service orientation.  He also finds Ellie, now Eleanor, currently a movie writer who is traveling with her producer boss to research - you guessed it - a movie about train travel.  The trip is full of romance - eloping lovers who are to be married on the train- as well as skulduggery, interesting characters of various types, and adventure.  Tom also does some soul-searching and self-evaluation about Eleanor and other life choices.  And, of course, there is a very satisfactory surprise ending.<br /> Sometimes when writers go outside of their niche the result is disappointing.  This trip (both in genre and in plot) is very successful.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R2T7KVS9BTSL8T	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Strangers in the Night	Dean Koontz has a recipe, and has once again applied it for our reading pleasure.  Take two strangers, both loners who realize that their lives are far from complete, but who are coping pretty well.  One or both of them have some sort of dependent who relies on them completely.  Apply some sort of strange person or being who threatens them.  Mix them together under conditions that require they flee together from unknown or not understood terrors.  Stir in encounters with people who need help, which the couple individually or together can and do provide.  In the end, serve up with justice for the bad guys and at least the potential for happy every after for the couple.  Using this tried and true recipe, Koontz has cooked up another savory dish for us in By the Light of the Moon.<br /> Dylan OConnor is an artist, who travels around and sells his landscapes at art shows.  He cares for Shep, his autistic brother, who travels with him.  They are orphans, whose father was a suicide while they were adolescents and whose mother was murdered by a burglar five years later.  Jillian Jackson is a standup comic waiting for her big break while traveling the western club circuit in her vintage Coup de Ville and her sole companion, a potted plant named Fred.  They happen to be staying overnight in the same Arizona motel when a stranger knocks Dylan on the head and injects him with some strange serum.  He tells Dylan that people are chasing him and will kill him when he is caught.  Since he doesnt want his lifes work to be lost, he has injected Dylan with the results of his research, and warns Dylan that the people chasing him will also kill Dylan if they figure out he has received the serum.  He also tells Dylan that the psychotropic stuff he has given him does something different to everyone, with an effect that is ...interesting, frequently astonishing, and sometimes positive.  With that he leaves Dylan, bumps into Jillian and injects her on the spur of the moment, and then takes off in Jillians car.  As she pursues, Dylan is preparing to run, and then bad guys arrive and Jillians caddy explodes.  Fleeing together, they begin to experience the effects of the stuff (and come to find out Shep was injected as well) and begin their strange journey.  And it is an exciting one.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R2N6DQ6GMEQZCM	158736123X	861360354	Cold Cuts: A Murder Mystery and Cosmic Comedy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sleuthing as an Art Form	First off, I am prejudiced about this book.  Marcia Mayo is a colleague.  I know her and I know some of her characters.  The dialog between Annabelle McGee and her buddy J.B. Jones sounds an awful lot like conversations I have heard in the hall outside my office between Marcia and her buddy Debra, and others.  Aside from my predilection to like the book (Marcia threatened me with mayhem if I didnt give her a favorable review), it really is a fun read.<br /> Annabelle McGee is a 50 year old flower child, divorced with children grown, operating an art shop from her home in rural Rivers End, Georgia.  Old enemy, now Tallahassee socialite,  PhaPha Eberhart drops off a truly horrible painting and asks Annabelle to sell it for her on consignment.  Shortly thereafter a disreputable character shows up and buys the painting.  Then PhaPha is found dead in the deli section of Rivers Ends sole supermarket.  Annabelle decides to solve the murder and, with assistance from her buddy and next door neighbor, J.B. Jones, finally does.<br /> Like Kathy Trocheks Callahan Garrity novels and Patricia Sprinkles stories, Marcia Mayos characters and their peccadillos are at least as important as the story line.  The story hangs together with interesting twists and turns.  And the characters and their interactions are truly delightful.  Maybe there will be more adventures of Annabelle McGee.  I hope so.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R1U0EBU7Q9CKKW	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Microrobotic Terror	Michael Crichton has frightened us for years with stories of plague and microbiological skulduggery or ineptness leading to horrifying environments.  In Prey, his newest, Crichton recombines the DNA of computer technology, nanotechnology, and biotechnology to produce a cutting edge thriller of high tech misfeasance and edge of disaster suspense.<br /> Jack is an unemployed programmer turned technology applications manager.  He is unemployed because he blew the whistle on shenanigans by his superiors in his Silicon Valley company.  While looking for a new job, he is a house-husband.  His wife, also a high-tech manager, is under extreme stress at her company, which is trying to find venture capital to bring out a really breakthrough product that will revolutionize diagnostic medicine.  The stress, or something, is causing a personality change that is almost as worrisome to Jack as his difficulties in finding a new job.  Is Julia really working all those long hours, or is she having an affair?  She certainly seems to be setting up a strong case for herself in a custody hearing if divorce is imminent.  The baby experiences a strange episode of sickness, then Julia is in an auto accident.  Then Jack's old company wants to hire him back as a consultant to solve problems that Julia's company is having with some software that Jack originally developed.<br /> While Julia is hospitalized Jack heads for the manufacturing facility in Nevada (that he didn't even knew existed) for a couple of days to solve the problems.  There he discovers problems far in excess of any he has been told about, and all of the crew are isolated and besieged by manmade horror.  Since the story is told as a flashback, readers know that all will come right in the end, or do they?<br /> Crichton has once again showed us the potentially horrible results from humans messing with the environment.  Of course, this is fiction and could never happen for real - could it?	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R1YZQLPP3KLD5P	0345444892	646331214	Murder at Ford's Theatre (Capital Crimes)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Historical Reruns	Margaret Truman has entertained us for years with her homicidal tour of Washington landmarks.  The current stop at Ford's Theater is no exception.  Nadia, a young, sexy, female intern to powerful Senator Lerner is found dead in the alley outside of Ford's Theater, where she sometimes volunteered.  The media had previously alleged sexual activity between her and the senator.  Clarise, the director of the operating arm of the theater is the senator's ex-wife, currently preparing for confirmation hearings on her appointment to head the National Endowment for the Arts.  Their son may be the last person to have seen the intern alive.  While there are other suspects, the police narrow in on the son, and Clarise calls on friend Mackensie Smith to help out.  Smith, and his wife Annabel, are the usual principles in Truman's Washington tours, but this time we have new characters in the leading roles.  D.C. police Rick Klayman, the young white detective and his veteran partner Mo Johnson carry the investigation and much of the story line to its not unexpected but still satisfying conclusion.  Along the way we learn quite a bit about Lincoln, the theater, the assasination, Booth, and others.  There is even a has-been British Shakespearean actor, and admirer of Booth, who attempts to recreate that worthy's most famous role.  All in all, Truman has given us another enjoyable and educational stop on her continuing tour.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R393OP9T80OJNS	0312291027	645604671	Hollywood Tough: A Shane Scully Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	It�s Hard to get back to work	Stephen Cannell's latest Shane Scully novel returns the reader to Los Angeles one year after Shane and his beautiful wife/partner/boss Alexa barely survived The Viking Funeral (St. Martin's, January 2002 and December 2002 softcover).  Shane is completing medical leave recuperation from injuries received in that story.  He and Alexa, happily married, and Shane's son \\"Chooch\\" seemingly have adjusted well to all of their traumas, and Shane is wondering what kind of new duty he will draw, and if he will be working under his wife, who has progressed rapidly up the LAPD promotion ladder.  Things cannot stay serene for long, however.<br /> Shane and Alexa attend an engagement party for Alexa's best friend, who has been star-crossed for lovers.  At the party, Shane meets Nicky Marcella, one of his former clients/snitch, a con man who has become a movie producer.  He asks Shane to help him locate an old friend whom he wants to cast in his new movie, but he can't locate her.  Also, Shane overhears the groom to be making an arch comment about never needing a divorce - his previous wives died after he tired of the!  Shane is suspicious and over Alexa's objections starts to investigate.  He also finds the missing actress, who is now a doped-up prostitute.  He reports back to Nicky, and then forgets about it - until he is called out to a crime scene to identify her tortured body and explain why she had his business card.  Now Shane is angry and pushes on to discover an East Cost mafia family trying to wedge into the Hollywood unions, a merging of street gangs to take over narcotics trafficking in LA, and ends up fronting a sting that before he knows it is really producing a megamillion dollar movie.  And then the gang involvement reaches in and entangles his son.<br /> It all works out in the end, and Shane doesn't really get to be a movie magnet.  It is a suspense-filled story with lots of action.  Cannell can be counted on for a good story, whether in one of his novels or one of his movies.  This one is true to form.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R2AHD6Y0DGSZD1	0525946896	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Sharp, but no Sting	Maybe there are two Ken Folletts.  One Follett has given us stories with complex plots and  interesting, well-defined characters.  This Follett wrote The Eye of the Needle, Lie Down with Lions, The Pillars of the Earth, and Night Over Water.  The other Follett gives us stories with simple story lines, a plot that is thin and/or obvious, and cardboard characters.  Unfortunately, the latter Follett is responsible for Hornet Flight.  Adolescent characters pursue an adolescent plot with dialog and description suitable for adolescents.<br /> In the Summer of 1941, Harald Olufson, a Danish teenager, is studying for final exams and anticipating college.  German occupation is lightly felt, and while some Danes are resentful, none seem rebellious.  And some welcome the German drive for organization and no-nonsense attitude toward criminals and trouble-makers.  In this setting young Harald blunders onto a strange apparatus build by the Germans near his home; visits the home of a Jewish classmate to discover his beautiful sister Karen and a civilian sport aircraft stored in the barn; and gets into trouble with the police for painting anti-German graffiti on a wall while drunk (for the first time in his life, of course).  Harald's brother, Arne, a Danish air force pilot is engaged to  Hermia, a British citizen who worked in the embassy in Copenhagen until the German's arrived. Hermia has become the head of the Danish section of British Intelligence, and is charged by Churchill to discover how the Germans have developed air defenses that are crippling bomber raids, which are all the British have left to fight with.  In a series of coincidences, Harald and Karen survive the breakdown of the fledgling resistance organization Hermia established before she left Denmark and miraculously escape to England with the information that the British need to counter the German radar and save the day.<br /> Hornet Flight is an interesting story reminiscent of young adult fiction of an earlierday.  While entertaining, it is far short of what Follett's adult fans have a right to expect.	2003-01-29
US	51147050	R26QA1U38US08V	0375505423	271998417	Worth the Fighting For: A Memoir	Books	4	15	21	N	N	He Would Rather be Right!	In this second memoir, United States Senator John McCain continues his story, picking up where he left off in Faith of Our Fathers.  The first memoir, which was well received, ended with McCain's 1972 return home from five plus years as a prisoner of war.  This edition takes us from that point to the present day, and includes discussions of the \\"Keating Five\\", ideas about campaign finance reform, ideas about reform of<br />congressional operations, and presidential campaigning.  It is an interesting and entertaining read.<br />  Any memoir is subjective, presenting the writer's personal view of the events of his or her life and activities.  When the writer is a public figure of some note, such as Senator McCain, it is likely to include some aspects of explanation offered primarily to show that the subject is aware of his shortcomings and regrets them.  This memoir has self-examination and apology to a fine degree.  It also has very interesting narrative about McCain's beliefs and things he learned through his \\"second career\\" in politics, which are useful information for the reader.<br />  Of particular interest to this reader is McCain's interspersion among the recollections of his activities of several stories of people (or characters) whose life and attitudes he finds worthy of emulation.  These include Robert Jordan (Hemingway's For Whom the Bells Toll), General Billy Mitchell, Marlon Brando's portrayal of the Mexican revolutionary in Viva Zapata, Ted Williams, and Theodore Roosevelt.<br />  McCain's father and grandfather were naval officers who achieved high rank and notable service. Five years in Vietnamese prisons took him out of the loop for too long for comparable achievement, never mind the physical toll exacted by the conditions of his imprisonment.  After serving for several years as liaison with the U.S. Senate, McCain decided to resign from the Navy and seek public office.  His second wife was from Arizona, so he moved there to run for office.  He waselected to the House, and then successfully sought to succeed Senator Barry Goldwater.  His service has been  marked with \\"maverick\\" positions, controversy, and an attempt for the Republican nomination for the presidency, which he lost to George W. Bush.  If McCain's explanation of the things he did as a Senator and candidate are somewhat self-serving, so what?  It is refreshing to read his version directly, without filtering and  editorializing from the media.  He makes some telling points about the need for campaign and congressional reform.	2002-10-02
US	51147050	R1KMW0J1X9YFTK	0446526002	694025239	The Putt at the End of the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bagger Vance Meets Monty Python	It is said that a camel is a horse designed by a committee.  Since a camel is very efficient doing what camels are intended to do, then the remark must mean that a camel is a very funny looking horse.  Well, in The Putt at the End of the World, a committee of nine individually popular writers has turned out a very funny golf story.<br /> The Putt at the End of the World is apparently the brainchild of last-listed author Les Standiford, shown as editor and compiler.  It also seems to be a salute, at least in part, to recently deceased British writer Douglas Adams, author of the Hitchhikers' Guide to the Galaxy series which includes The Restaurant at the End of the Universe.  It is certainly reminiscent of Adam's work, with zany characters interacting amidst nefarious schemes, all centered around a golf tournament.  But not just any golf tournament.  Computer zillionaire Philip Bates has bought a Scottish castle and cleared original growth timber to construct the ultimate golf course-as well as rehabbing the castle into an exotic hideaway retreat.  This infuriates both environmental terrorists and the last of the MacLout clan, who claims that the MacGregor sellers usurped his family's claim to the property and he should have gotten the money.  Then Bates (no relation to this reviewer) scheduled a conference and golf tournament inviting all of the world's political leaders and top golf players.<br /> One of the invitees is Billy Sprague, club pro from Squat Possum Golf Club in rural Ohio.  Billy is a magnificent golfer, unless there is money involved in which case he can't even get the ball of the tee.  Billy's mentor is the old retired family doctor whose life is golf, who build the Squat Possum Club and who dies immediately after giving Billy his invitation and telling him that he has to go to Scotland and play in order to lift the curse and \\"...save the world as we know it...\\"  Then FBI and British Secret Service refugees from the Keystone Kops get involved becauseof the terrorist threat, and the rest is-not history, but hilarious.<br /> Each of the nine authors wrote one of the chapters.  They did a good job matching styles, and/or Standiford did a great job of editing, because the novel is seamless.  It is a farce, but at the same time has a \\"Bagger Vance\\" note of paean to the wonder of golf.  It reads fast, and it reads great.	2002-06-04
US	51147050	R1P6XPUJDUHPO9	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hell Hath No Fury	In Mortal Prey, thirteenth installment of the \\"Prey\\" series, John Sanford \\"reunites\\" Lucas Davenport with Clara Rinker, the highly successful hit woman who almost cashed in Lucas's chips once before.<br /> Rinker became involved with Lucas when she accepted a job in Minneapolis, and Lucas managed to track her down and almost catch her.  She tried to kill him, he almost killed her, and she retired after almost being killed by her employers who didn't want her retired and loose knowing all she knew about them.  Between books, she escaped to Mexico and quite by accident became involved with the son of a drug ring godfather.  She figured out who the family was, but they didn't know about her.<br /> The new story begins when a sniper kills Rinker's boyfriend and almost kills her as well, and does cause her to lose the baby she is carrying.  Everyone assumes the hit is connected to her boy friend's family.  Not Rinker.  She knows it is her old employers trying to tie up a loose end, and she is also concerned that the family will find out and blame her.  So she takes off as soon as she gets well, and heads to St. Louise for revenge.  When the facts about Rinker come to light, the FBI gets involved and brings in Lucas, who has come closer than anyone else to apprehending her.<br /> Even though the FBI has figured out who her probable targets are and is trying to protect them, Rinker stays one step ahead.  The task force stays as close at they do only because Lucas brings street cop smarts into the game to go with the computer-driven FBI analyses.  The suspense builds, the blood flows, and the bad guys fall away one by one.<br /> In the end, after a surprising plot twist, there is justice of a kind.  Does Rinker get away from Lucas again?  Read Sandford's Mortal Prey and find out.	2002-05-29
US	51147050	R1DW469SERW3WX	0345411463	587156594	Eureka	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Northern California Confidential	A series of flashbacks, from 1945 to the turn of the century to the Battle of the Marne to the roaring twenties, Eureka is a well-told story of relationships, skillfully disguised as a murder mystery.<br /> Eureka, California (in this story) is a small coastal town between San Francisco and Los Angeles.  As a sideline to building a railroad between the two large cities two entrepreneurs start an elegant housing development and themselves move into the hills above the town.  The town itself is a hell-raising place right out of the old dime novels.  One of the entrepreneurs acquires all of the land except for the town, which his ex-partner sells to the local crime boss.<br /> Brodie Culhane is a shanty Irish orphan who becomes friends with the son of the surviving entrepreneur and is virtually adopted into the family.  His two heroes are his patron, Mr. Eli, and the sheriff Mr. Eli has brought in to try to control the bad element in town.  Buck Tallman is also straight out of the dime novels - a relic of the old west that is rapidly disappearing.  Brodie decides to leave, and joins the Marines, planning on a career.  After a few years, however, World War II interferes, and Brodie, now an injured and decorated captain returns and begins training to become Buck's successor.  Brodie becomes sheriff after a shootout where Buck is killed.  He fills his staff with people with whom he served in the Marines.  He is also much more aggressive about wanting to clean up the town.  He targets the crime boss whom he knows is responsible for Buck's death and has him convicted of murder.  The town becomes a resort for Hollywood types.<br /> Flash forward.  In 1941 Los Angeles homicide detective Zee Bannon and his partner pick up a call to investigate an apparent accidental death.  The circumstances look clear, but the victim is much more confusing.  A widow, she has a hundred thousand dollars in the bank, no will, and no traceable history before 1924.  Following the money, Bannon ends up in Eureka, now renamed San Pietro and a prosperous and crime free community with a sheriff who is about to run for governor.<br /> Bannon and Culhane strike sparks at the same time they feel a strong affinity.  Culhane tries to steer Bannon away, but Bannon perseveres and in the end triumphs.  However, there is some cost, and all of the questions are not answered.  It is not until 1945, when Bannon, now himself an injured and decorated ex-Marine returns from the war that he learns all of the answers.<br /> Diehl has given us several novels and this latest,  like all of his others, is well worth reading.	2002-05-29
US	51147050	R2HHIJO29QY5R9	0399148477	436056065	Turbulence	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just When You Weren't Afraid to Go Near the Airline	John Nance has written several good, suspense-filled stories about troubles in and around airplanes.  Turbulence may be his scariest.  In part, this may be because of the times, when we are much more conscious of security and when that heightened security has increased the time passengers spend processing in for their flights.  As I read, I remembered the promotional line for the horror movie Jaws II, something like \\"Just when you weren't afraid to go near the water again.\\"<br /> Recall all airline employees - ticket agents, flight attendants, pilots, security staff, baggage handlers - whom you ever encountered who were having a bad day and wanted to share their frustrations with you.  Put them all together in a busy airport and on one single flight - Meridian Flight Six, Chicago to London and continuing on to Capetown - and delay the flight for hours.  Add a mix of passengers with all of the wide range of characteristics you might find on any jumbo jet, but especially the African student who is returning home suddenly because he can't locate his mother; the Asian-American dot.com millionaire who built his fortune on customer service and can't stand the behavior of many airline personnel; and a physician who is suing the airline because his wife and newborn died when the pilot on an earlier flight refused to land so that the wife could have medical attention.  Stir in a little more spice when the crew changeover in London brings on a captain who is new to international flying and very tentative, a first officer who is impatient and who is having domestic troubles, and a senior flight attendant who just doesn't like people but who keeps her job by constantly accusing others of harassing her.<br /> As the pot begins to boil, take a national security concern that terrorists might take advantage of an incident of \\"air rage\\", and throw in a tip that something big is imminent and it will involve a major airliner and an African flight.<br /> The result is a well-told storythat generates anger, apprehension, thrills and excitement.  And also an appreciation for many, many people - airline employees, passengers, and just plain folks - who go out of their way to help others and who far too often are overlooked as we focus on all the bad things that happen.	2002-05-29
US	51147050	R3240KEM36LECL	0399146008	157310859	Shock	Books	1	6	6	N	N	Shockingly Bad	Since Coma, in 1977, Robin Cook has given us many fascinating medical-based thrillers.  The frontspiece of Shock, his latest, lists twenty-two other works.  A recurring theme is a female medico who discovers some sort of medical scam (Coma was about a group that put surgery patients into permanent comas so they could use the victims as a \\"parts farm\\" for illegal organ transplants). There have been some variations, but medicine and medical research have the basic venue.  Some of Cook's work has been great, some has been only good; but they have all tended to  be well plotted and well written, and with a generally believable premise.  Cook's latest, however, is a drastic departure.<br />Shock still has a medical premise, and the protagonists are two female graduate students in Boston, one a thesis away from her Ph.D. in economics and the other needing her thesis in biology.  The economist breaks up with her medical student boyfriend, and the two girls decide they need to get away from Boston to finish their research and writing.  They decide to donate eggs to a fertility clinic and invest the very substantial donor fee; then  move to Venice to do their writing.  Off they go, and eighteen months later, dissertations completed and final defenses scheduled, they return to Boston.  Wondering what happened to their eggs, they call the clinic but are given no information-as  per the original agreement.<br />Up to here the story is vintage Cook; but at this point the story line deteriorates rapidly.  With no apparent activity to keep them busy, the women embark on a mission to find work at the clinic, under false names, in order to hack into the clinic computer and find out about their eggs.  They create false identities with social security numbers purloined from recently deceased women, apply for jobs and are hired immediately, and  begin a comedy of errors adventure.  They do discover that the clinic is doing major research on human cloning; is doing various other nefarious acts with their egg donors; and is also occasionally killing donors and covering up their deaths.  The young women are detected and are pursued through the labyrinths of the clinic basement, but escape and call for help.  The bad guys then download their research files, wipe their hard disks, and successfully flee offshore.  The story doesn't end-it just stops. Perhaps Cook was setting us up for a sequel.  If he was, I don't intend to read it.	2002-05-09
US	51147050	R3JTK92L6K27TE	0765300001	661946564	Never Enough	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Enough Is Too Much	Harold Robbins was a master storyteller.  He conquered the reading public with The Carpetbaggers and for many years spun yarn after yarn of intrigue and sex and manipulation and<br />sex and so on.  Toward his latter years, the quality of the story line declined somewhat, but the books were still good. That is not the case in this posthumous effort by Robbins' editors and estate.  This novel may be based on Robbins' ideas, but he did not leave enough information for whoever wrote this novel to do the idea justice.  The substitute writer does an excellent job of copying Robbins' style, but the story line is very weak.<br />The essential components are there.  David Shea is a high school football hero and a football scholarship is the only way he can go to college.  When he and some friends beat a bully to death, one of his friends takes the rap so David's scholarship will not be endangered.  An injury ends his football career, but he finds his niche as a stockbroker.  He uses people-strangers, friends, it doesn't matter.  In short, he has the all the characteristics of a Robbins \\"hero\\".  But just as the story builds up to a critical point-the third wife who is his moral and intellectual equal has just left him and has vowed revenge-the book ends.  Apparently Robbins did not leave behind a conclusion and the estate, editors, and ghost writer couldn't, or didn't bother to, think of one.  Up to the lack of an ending (or last quarter or so of the story), the ghost writer does reproduce Robbins' prose very well.	2002-05-09
US	51147050	RALJBQVHAU4PY	0446529400	481146482	Long Lost	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For	David Morrell is an accomplished writer, with several very good books and a few awards to his credit.  Long Lost is an excellent  addition to his credits list.  Some parts of this book terrified  me more than anything I have read since I was a child. Brad Denning is a successful architect in Denver.  Still haunted by the disappearance of his nine-year old younger brother when they  were children, he is has adjusted well.  Deep down, however, he still wants more than anything else for Petey to come home. When he and his work are featured on a national TV morning show, he talks about his long lost brother.  Naturally he is besieged by crank callers.  He is stunned, however, when someone accosts him  on the street and then convinces him that he really is long-lost  baby brother Petey.  This stranger bonds quickly to Brad, his  wife Kate, and their eleven-year old son, Jason.  Dale and  Petey, along with Jason, even go camping at the same place in  Colorado that their father took them the summer before Petey was  kidnaped.  The narrative flows well.  Then, just about the time that it seems that if this is a thriller something should happen, it does.  And how! Telling what happens, and how the rest of the tale proceeds denies the reader the opportunity to  experience all of the suspense that Morrell spins to well.  Suffice it to say that this is an excellent story, a real page-turner.  The reader should not be disappointed in this novel.	2002-05-09
US	51147050	R1O1EMV6SXGHM	0743224914	868849101	Christmas in Plains: Memories	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Holiday Memories from the Depression to the White House	In An Hour Before Daylight former President Jimmy Carter reminisced about his boyhood on the farm during the Great Depression.  Included in that were memories of Christmases, both for his family and for those around him in the farming community of Archery.  Following up on the reception of An Hour Before Daylight, President Carter has focused his reminiscences on Christmases on the farm, in Plains, in Atlanta, and in the White House.<br /> Christmas in Plains is a short but warm book that will not take long to read.  In that short time, however, the reader will be struck by the importance of family, tradition, and holiday in President Carter's life.  Some of the material presented is repeated from  An Hour Before Daylight, and perhaps from some of President Carter's other books as well.  It doesn't matter.  The book is well-written, and evokes in the reader his own stirring of ghosts of Christmas past.<br /> Written by almost anyone else, this book would not attract much attention.  Many people have experienced Christmases much like these (except for the White House).  Perhaps that is why it does receive attention-because of President Carter's celebrity we will read it and remember our own roots, family times, and traditions.  And this is a time when those memories bring us a special comfort.	2001-11-05
US	51147050	R3D2II0IVJXTVN	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	History From The Trenches	Bernard Cornwell is best known for his Sharpe's Rifles series, covering Wellington's Peninsula Campaign of the Napoleonic Wars; and expanding to a prequel series about the creation of the British Raj in India.  He has also looked into the American Civil War (The Starbuck Chronicles), the American Revolution (Redcoat), Arthurian legend (The Warlord Series), and the dawn of British history (Stonehenge).  All are well written, although the American books fall far short of the British ones.  Cornwell's latest is British again, and is up to his standards.<br /> Thomas of Hookton is the illegitimate, but acknowledged son of the very unusual village priest in the seaside hamlet of Hookton.  Everyone assumes that the priest is of noble birth, and at least a little crazy.  He even has books!  Which he reads!  He intends Thomas for the clergy as well, and Thomas already has one year at Oxford.  Thomas's real love, however, is archery.  He is a master of that strange, new, and uniquely British weapon, the longbow.  French pirates, commanded by a mysterious character who gives his name as &quot;Harlequin, attack Hookton on Easter morning, kill the priest, steal the precious holy relic displayed at the church, and start Thomas off on his adventure.<br /> When the pirates attack, Thomas goes for his longbow, and mounts the only defense of the village; but it is too little, too late.  Thomas finds his father dying and learns that &quot;Harlequin&quot; is actually his cousin and that the holy relic in the church is a mystic family heirloom which his father stole from his family when he fell out with them.  But his father does not tell him his family name before he dies.<br /> With nothing left in Hookton, Thomas goes to the wars, enlisting as a common bowman.  He becomes a soldier in the British army which has invaded France as the Hundred Years War begins.  What follows is Cornwell's masterful narration of historical fact set in the thoughts and deeds of his characters.  It appears from the ending that this is the first in a new series of Cornwell histories.  This reader will certainly look forward to the books that follow.	2001-10-29
US	51147050	R1ZDS0TUETYJZY	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Trying Make It On Minimum Wage	Welfare has been reformed.  No longer will deadbeats feed comfortably at the public trough.  Now they have to get a job.  Poverty has been beaten.  Or has it?  This is the question posed by Barbara Ehrenreich, a female, fiftyish writer who also has a Ph.D. in biology.  To look for an answer, Ehrenreich went undercover and lived for several months as someone trying to find and hold a minimum wage job and live on her income.  She relates her experience in Nickel and Dimed.<br /> Ehrenreich's biases show clearly in her narrative.  She acknowledges up front that she was a semi-radical student in the sixties, that her husband was a Teamsters' organizer, and that her father and uncles worked in the mines and on the railroads.  She is definitely not pro management or a conservative Republican.  However, her experience makes a strong case for the need for a safety net for people who working on the low end of the economic food chain.<br /> She starts her experiment near her Key West, Florida home.  She goes into the community with a start-up bankroll and a &quot;rent-a-wreck&quot; for transportation.  She soon finds that housing is the big problem.  It is expensive-easily taking up more than half of the gross pay from a minimum wage job.  Without the capital reserve to make the sizable deposit required for an apartment, she is forced into motels or trailer parks that rent by the week.  And all of these types of places are miles and miles from where the jobs are.  She also finds that although there are lots of help wanted ads, she is invariably steered toward waitressing.  She tries this for a month, and quickly finds that she cannot make it on one job alone.  She will have to work two jobs just to have a hovel to sleep in and junk food to eat.<br /> Moving on the Portland, Maine, Ehrenreich finds more of the same.  Here she is steered toward housekeeping jobs, and discovers that many businesses keep the help wanted ads going even when they don't have any jobs to offer.  Theydo, however, expect that their high turnover will create vacancies soon.  What they are doing is keeping a reserve of prospective employees on tap.  After Portland, she finishes her experiment in the Twin Cities of Minnesota.  Here she finds that housing, a problem elsewhere, is nearly insurmountable.  She turns down a job with a building supply place to work at Wal~Mart.  As the pressures mount and increasingly she is not getting by, she even starts a little union organizing campaign; but it doesn't get anywhere before she returns to Key West to write her book.<br /> Although Ehrenreich's biases clearly show (she never met a manager she didn't dislike), she does demonstrate a clear problem in our society and raises valid questions that our society needs to answer.  She is unable to make it working at minimum wage, and she starts each new experiment with a bankroll and a car.  People who work for minimum wage stay below the poverty level.  And the official definition of poverty is based on food costs, while housing has become a larger and larger problem.  Drug tests are an especial problem for Ehrenreich.  She disapproves on principle; she cites evidence that they are ineffective and beneficial only to the testing companies; and particularly notes that test sites are far removed from work areas and living areas, making getting the test another sometimes insurmountable hurdle.	2001-10-29
US	51147050	R28DRII9ZIG65B	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Different Kind of Suspense	If you are looking for another Patterson suspense thriller, don't go any further.  James Patterson is noted for his suspense thrillers, many featuring D.C. detective psychologist Alex Cross.  There have been some variations in Patterson's repertoire, thrillers featuring other detectives, and one drastic variation.  That variation was Miracle on the 17th Green, a story of a man in midlife crisis who gambles everything on realizing his dream, and in achieving that learns enough about himself and life to save his marriage and family.  Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is another variation, reminiscent of Erich Segal's  widely-popular 1960's Love Story.  This is very different from Patterson's usual work, and, I think, very well done.  There is an element of suspense, but people looking for murder and deduction, as well as people who did not like Segal's classic, should look elsewhere.  Katie Wilkinson is single, attractive, and a successful editor in a New York publishing house.  She meets Matt, who is a poet-housepainter on Martha's Vineyard, when his first book of poems is assigned to her for editing.  She falls in love, and life seems perfect.  Then Matt, with no warning, leaves her.  He leaves behind a diary, written by Suzanne for her infant son, Nicholas.  Katie begins to read and soon realizes that Suzanne is Matt's wife and Nicholas is their son.  Wracked with pain and sorrow, Katie continues to read, and we read with her.  We and Katie learn all about Suzanne and her life, and the difficulties which led to her moving from Boston to Martha's Vineyard to be a sort of country doctor.  As the story unfolds the reader and Katie, become very fond of Suzanne.  But this is the wife of Katie's lover who abandoned her!  How can we?  This is a very short book, filled with feeling.  If you did not like Love Story, don't bother.  If you did, then grab the box of tissues and settle down for a pleasant evening.	2001-08-20
US	51147050	R2C2C30P9QEXI2	0345433300	260503270	The Manhattan Hunt Club	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lost Under Manhattan	Are you ready for another anxiety dream?  John Saul provides one with The Manhattan Hunt Club.  Jeff Converse is a promising architecture student at Columbia University in New York.  Although he is from a working class background he and Heather Randall, a child of privilege, are in love.  The only fly in the ointment is that neither his parents nor hers approve.  Everything falls apart when Jeff, riding the subway late one night, surprises a mugger who is brutally  attacking a woman.  He chases the mugger away, then turns to help the woman.  As he leans over her she wakes, sees his face, and starts to struggle.  At that moment a train pulls in and passengers, seeing the struggle, attack and subdue Jeff.  Only Heather and Jeff's father believe his story.  The victim saw only Jeff, and the subway riders saw the only the struggle.  Jeff sticks to his story. He is convicted.  The judge, because of Jeff's previously unblemished record and his forthright stance, maintaining his innocence, imposes a light sentence. The causes much dismay and displeasure on the part of the victim, the press, and speakers for minority communities.  One the way from the holding area to prison Jeff's van is hit by another vehicle and Jeff is pulled from the wreckage and led into the subway system.  From there he is spirited into a maze of dark, subterranean but man-made passages.  From his architecture studies he knows he is in the multilevel labyrinth of utility tunnels, abandoned subway and train passages, and storm and sewer lines that lie beneath the bustle of Manhattan.  This labyrinth is only partially mapped and is now inhabited by the homeless, including the unfortunate, the unable, and the unrepentant.  There is another elementpredators who make up The Manhattan Hunt Club.  These well-to-do people combine their thirst for vengeance against those who have avoided just punishment from society with their thrill of the hunt.  The result is somewhat formulaic, but grippingly told.  Saul very effectively uses stereotypes to satirize stereotypes.  The ending is both anticipated and yet with a strange twist.  I haven't decided yet whether the ending is weak or very poetic.  You decide.	2001-08-20
US	51147050	R1NRZZ6NSWFS0O	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	8	9	N	N	13,000 Years in 400 Pages	In the introduction to this Pulitzer Prize winning book, author Jared Diamond recounts a 1972 conversation with a Papau New Guinean leader who asked why Europeans came with all their technology to &quot;discover&quot; New Guinea, instead of the other way around.  This was a question Diamond had already considered, because to his mind native New Guineans were at least as intelligent as Europeans.  Twenty-five years later, Diamond had an answer for that question, and it is a good one.  According to Diamond, the domination of the world by European culture since 1500 (and the US is culturally an extension of Europe) is the result of three proximate factors: military and political developments up to and particularly since 1500; the ravages of European based disease on newly-met peoples; and the development of technology.  He summarizes these three factors in the three words of his title.  He explains how these proximate causes developed from root causes in a review of biological, climatological, geographical and other trends and events in the 13,000 or so years since the end of the last ice age.  In his review, he specifically addresses the so-called &quot;genetic advantages&quot; which have been cited by some to claim &quot;racial superiority&quot; as a root cause for &quot;white&quot; domination of world events, and gives a plausible explanation of why there is no such thing.  Unfortunately, people who would espouse that reasoning are not likely to work through this book to discover why they are wrong.  Readers will have to work to finish this book, but they will be rewarded when they do.  It is dry reading, and very repetitive.  It is, however, well worth the effort.  Diamond looks at why, if Africa is the source location of humanity as we know it, Africa has continued to be the least developed continent, and perhaps the one with the most human problems today.  He provides explanation of why the &quot;Fertile Crescent&quot; was the source of western civilization, butbecame the far-from-fertile political problem area it is now; why development moved westward from the middle- and near-east into Europe; why China, with a highly developed culture thousands of years ago, stultified and only recently entered the modern age; and why European-based diseases wiped out other cultures but their diseases seldom (but not always) had little effect on Europeans.  This book does not give us any indications how cultural and economic differences can be addressed today, but perhaps if we better understand how they came to exist if the first place, then maybe we can come up with a way that they can be addressed.  This book does help us with that better understanding.	2001-07-18
US	51147050	R1APOIELNWZG7F	034542753X	556257635	Rise to Rebellion	Books	4	62	65	N	N	The First Full Measures	Jeff Shaara may have started writing to finish his father's The Killer Angels trilogy with Gods and Generals and The Last Full Measure, but with Gone For Soldiers and now Rise to Rebellion he is firmly established in the novelized history genre in his own right.  The first of two books telling the story of the American Revolution, Rise to Rebellion covers the period from the Boston Massacre through the siege of Boston and Washington's moving the fledgling Continental Army to New York and the Declaration of Independence.  Shaara focuses on John Adams, Ben Franklin, George Washington, and, from the British side, General Thomas Gage, but the emphasis is strongly on John Adams.  This is an odd coincidence, given that this book was released at about the same time as  David McCullough's acclaimed biography of John Adams.  I cannot compare the two, not having read McCullough yet, but Shaara does a wonderful job of making John Adams and Abigail very real people.  There is also wonderful background on Ben Franklin's time in England during the years before he gave up on mediating any kind of accommodation.  There is also informative background on John's cousin, Sam Adams, whose name is often mentioned but whose contribution is not documented very much in general literature.  Washington is introduced, and background provided, and we will probably see much more of him in the sequel.  I found the material on Thomas Gage is also very informative.  American history does not generally give us much information on this man, other than the fact that he was in command of British forces at the beginning.  This is a very readable and very interesting book, and I look forward to the next volume.	2001-07-16
US	51147050	R3ULVT74PPM85H	1930493053	225652466	Walking Through a Spider's Web	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ordinary People; Extraordinary Acts	This is a nice little book, which might be read at one sitting.  It is the story of two people who came from ordinary, even deprived, beginnings.  They were ordinary people who were called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice-and did so as a natural act.  Since the fiftieth anniversary of the Normandy Invasion, much has been made of &quot;the greatest generation&quot; who fought in World War II.  Not very much has been said about those who served in Korea, even as the fiftieth anniversary of that &quot;police action&quot; is upon us.  Some of the &quot;great generation&quot; of World War II service were called, or volunteered, to serve again; and they did so under even more difficult conditions.  Members of the next generation joined them, and also made great sacrifices.  Bill Fornes was a child of the Depression, but he wanted to fly.  He left the coal fields of West Virginia to enroll at VPI and graduate, with difficulty, with an Air Force ROTC commission.  He flew fifty missions in Korea and was shot down and captured by the Chinese.  Technically, he was not a prisoner of war, because the Chinese kept him in isolation as a war criminal, charged with germ warfare.  His wife, Nancy, did not know if he was alive, because he was not on the POW lists.  She knew he lived only when he was released after thirteen months.  After his release, Bill left the Air Force, but then went back in to finish his career.  He did retire, but only after being separated with a short time to retirement, for which is qualified only by enlisting as a noncommissioned officer.  Bill and Nancy tell their story in straightforward, parallel narratives, which are unpolished, unassuming narratives.  They are ordinary people, who were called on for extraordinary acts.  After retirement Bill became active in the ex prisoners of war organization, and helped to establish the National Prisoner of War Museum located at the Andersonville (Georgia) National Historic Site.  His experience was also featuredin early performances of the associated drama, &quot;And Grace Will Lead Me Home&quot;.  In the book, Bill says that he was prepared to die for his country, but he was not prepared to be a prisoner.  He survived, and came home.  A lot of POW's didn't.  His story, and Nancy's, are moving tributes to the extraordinary spirit of ordinary people.	2001-07-08
US	51147050	R1CSJM2CANHZZH	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Superheroes and Ordinary People	If you ever enjoyed comic books, then you should enjoy Michael Chabon's Pulitzer Prize winning novel of two teenager cousins who take on New York, the publishing business, and the Third Reich-and win.  Even if you never read the comics (or will not admit to it) you should still enjoy the well-told story of two young men, their girl, and their adventures together as life changed for everyone.  Josef Kavalier is a young Jew in Nazi-occupied Prague, whose family sacrifices everything to squeeze him through a loophole to escape to family in New York.  Josef is an artist, but has also studied magic and escapism for years, imagining himself following in Houdini's footsteps.  He escapes Prague only through an amazing adventure and ends up in New York.  There he meets his cousin, Sam Klayman-a boy from Brooklyn who has millions of ideas for ways to escape his life.  Together they create a new character for the burgeoning comic book trade and take on the establishment, the publishers of Superman,  and the Nazi Empire.  Joe meets and falls in love with Rosa, he and Sam, now called Clay, do well for themselves, and do very well for their employers.  Then tragedy strikes and Joe escapes New York, by way of the U. S. Navy, and ends up manning a weather station and listening post in Antarctica.  Another amazing adventure and escape ensues.  This amazing comic book in prose rather than illustration is well written and the characters are interesting.  Their action-adventures are exciting.  Along the way, the reader gets an overview of the development of the comic book business and a trip down memory lane for those who might remember The Shadow, The Blackhawks, Captain Marvel, Archie, Veronica, and Betty, and many others.  The story entertains, but also illustrates the position that people grow and change, and they cannot hold on to their old ways and traditions forever.  People need to know who they are, and get on with their lives.  I read and enjoyed comic books in the 40's and 50's, the era described in this book.  My son read and enjoyed comics in the 70's and 80's, and recommended this book to me.  Maybe that contributed something to my enjoyment of it.	2001-07-04
US	51147050	R2CVFQKO869LES	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Marriages Off To A Very Bad Start	San Francisco police homicide inspector Lindsay Boxer's day is off to a very bad start.  First, she is informed by her doctor that she has an advanced case of a life threatening blood disorder.  Then she is called in on the brutal murder of society newlyweds in their honeymoon suite.  This will be a high profile case, so her regular partner is reassigned and she is told to work with an ex-cop who now handles public relations for City Hall.  As that day, and the following days, progress Lindsay comes to terms with her illness and begins to fight back.  She also comes to terms with her new partner.  What she cannot come to terms with is the perpetrator of the honeymoon murderer.  There was no robbery; the only things missing are the couple's wedding rings.  Lindsay fears that this signals a serial killer is just starting out.  And she is right.  In 1st To Die Patterson takes us along as Lindsay discovers the connections in the series of bizarre killings of newlyweds and begins to home in on the killer.  Along the way, she builds an unlikely support group of female friends-a medical examiner, a reporter, and an assistant district attorney.  The Women's Murder Club, as they call themselves, works on solving the crimes from a variety of at best semi-official viewpoints-and they do a good job, of course.  In the end, they find the perpetrator and build an airtight case, except...  There is a very peculiar ending, one coming out not quite the way even an experienced reader of thrillers might expect.  In retrospect, it is obvious that it could hardly have been different.  That is what make James Patterson a good novelist, and 1st To Die a good read.	2001-05-30
US	51147050	R2OMSNDTVLXGDM	0399147136	662895707	Headwind	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Flight to Avoid Prosecution	John Nance's theme is thrillers about or occurring on airplanes.  In Headwind, his latest, the airplane action is less interesting that what happens on the ground, but the story is arresting anyway.  Former US president John Harris is traveling on a commercial flight that makes a stopover at Athens (Greece).  Just before departure, the captain is informed that he must delay to allow police who are on their way to arrive and arrest one of his passengers-the former president.  The captain-a US national, Air Force reserve officer who is master of a German-flagged commercial flight-doesn't like the way that sounds and fakes an emergency so that he can take off and continue to Rome.  What he doesn't know is that the Italian police are also waiting to serve an international warrant on the former president, and police are on standby in nearly every European nation!  In the 1980's, in an effort to be able to punish human rights violations by dictators, most nations signed a treaty that made the infliction of torture by any official in a country a &quot;borderless&quot; crime.  In other words, a warrant could be taken out by people in one country and served on a citizen of a second country while in a third country-and extraditions treaties would not apply.  This is the treaty that was employed for a Spanish court to claim jurisdiction to try former Chilean ruler Pinochet and to have him arrested in England.  That actual case dragged on for quite some time and was finally moot because of Pinochet's age and health.  In the novel, it seems that the current dictator of Peru had a brother who was killed in a terrorist raid on a drug processing plan some years ago.  The claim is that the raid, which included the torture of women and children who were there, was a covert CIA action sanctioned by then President Harris.  The dictator's avowed purpose is to take Harris to Peru, give him a trial, and execute him.  The treaty would allow him to do that.  The principal characters are theairline captain and a &quot;defrocked&quot; judge who has just been readmitted to practice law.  The former judge was a junior partner in the former president's law firm years ago, and is the one person Harris wants to help him now.  This, of course, drives the US State Department crazy.  The story line is good, the characters are interesting, and the novel is a good, solid read.  Reader will enjoy some good barbs thrown at bureaucrats, learn something about international law, and learn a lot more than they probably want to about the fuel problems of flying a Boeing 737 from Ireland to the United States.	2001-05-30
US	51147050	R1VK49DONJZ9JA	0345434684	343656718	The Skies Of Pern	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An Epilogue for the Pern Saga	In All the Wyers of Pern Anne McCaffrey concluded the saga of the &quot;modern&quot; descendants of the colonists who settled the far-off planet Pern.  There was a nice, neat finish.  With the red planet successfully diverted to another orbit, never again to bring &quot;thread&quot; into the skies of Pern after the current &quot;fall&quot; is over, the original colonists' artificial intelligence computer had completed its last program as assigned by the colonists before they fled the landing site for safer lands in the north.  Knowing that the current residents of Pern needed to find their own way now that the AI had helped them recover their lost history and helped them to start their own renaissance, the AI turns itself off, leaving only an appropriate quote from Ecclesiastes on the screen.  MasterHarper emeritus Robinton realized what had happened and laid down his own burdens, after serving for many years as the grand old man of Pern, and responsible for much of the good things that had happened on Pern throughout the series.  A most satisfactory ending.  In the acknowledgments for The Skies of Pern McCaffrey notes that she was encouraged to &quot;keep to the `real' story line&quot; rather than &quot;go off on tangents because there are so many people on Pern.&quot;  Indeed, McCaffrey's stories, filling in gaps in the history and fully developing some of the &quot;minor&quot; characters have been most enjoyable.  I have considered these to be the potatoes to enhance the meat of the main story line.  Returning to the main line, however, McCaffrey has provided us with an excellent epilogue.  A meteor strike on the prison hold of Crom results in the escape of one of the conservatives who attempted earlier to destroy the Aivas  He organizes an active, but still covert, rebellion against the &quot;abominations&quot; brought on by the new learning.  Another, large meteor strike causes large scale damage, mitigated by the dragon riders and the new astronomers, largelydragon riders, who used information from Aivas to project the impact areas.  The younger generation of dragon riders are active in this novel, and they establish themselves and their future after the end of threadfall.  All in all, a most satisfactory epilogue.	2001-05-06
US	51147050	R3YQ0VWHYHG07	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not a Single Lawyer, Dead or Alive	John Grisham is noted for his hard-hitting, suspense-filled novels about lawyers.  A Painted House is a significant departure.  There is not a single lawyer in the book.  Instead, we spend several weeks in late summer and early fall of 1952 with seven-year-old Luke Chandler on the family cotton farm in rural Arkansas.  It is time to pick the cotton on eighty acres of rented land.  The crop looks good and prices are high.  If the crop can be picked and marketed before something goes wrong, maybe the family can make it another year without going deeper in debt.  We go with Luke and his grandfather in the old truck to find &quot;hill people&quot; to pick the crop, and to employ Mexican workers from the labor contractor.  We watch through this seven-year-old's eyes the tension between these two groups, and feel the tension within the family as compromises are made in order to keep the labor to bring in the crop.  Everything revolves around bringing in the crop.  After a long day in the fields, handpicking the cotton, we relax with the family on the front porch of their unpainted house, listening to Harry Caray give the play-by-play for the St. Louis Cardinals, playing in Sportsmans Park in St. Louis.  Thank goodness the cotton looks good, because the Cards are mired in third place, behind the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants.  The shame of it all-losing to two New York teams.  Grisham's prose is almost poetry in many parts of this book.  There is some suspense, but we are not gathered into a plot, but rather into a time and place when life is much simpler, and much, much harder.  Maybe the fact that I was twelve in the summer of 1952, and only one generation off of a south Georgia farm makes this book resonate to me.  Maybe, too, it is because I actually saw the Cards play in Sportsman's Park in St. Louis that summer.	2001-05-04
US	51147050	R227NM440QGF8G	0312878257	145164961	Through the Darkness (World at War, Book 3)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	War, Magic, and Infantry	Harry Turtledove is known for his work in &quot;alternative history&quot;.  In this genre, some major or minor event is plausibly different from historical fact, and the fictional course of events that follow is dramatically different from reality.  Recent Turtledove works are in a series which addressed US and world history based on the Confederacy winning the US Civil War, with a continuation into World War I.  He has continued with a new series loosely based on World War II, but in a fantasy environment.  Into the Darkness and Darkness Descending begin the series of which Through the Darkness is the third volume.  Set in the fictional world of Derlavai where the descendants of the on-time ruling empire are an often despised minority, the Algarvains and the Unkerlantians seek to establish a hegemony where they, the proper successors to empire, rule.  A long war ended with Algarve denied its proper place and even stripped of some of its possessions.  Unkerlant was plagued by a bloody civil war during the period, and the surviving king is not happy with his place in the world.  By the way, in this world they have magic instead of physics, ensorceled crystals instead of radio, dragons instead of airplanes, magic sticks and magic &quot;eggs&quot; instead of guns and bombs.  In spite of the differences in the world, the people are still people and they function and react just the way Europeans did in the middle third of the Twentieth Century.  They fight, they die, they muddle through, they love.  Turtledove creates a hugh cast of characters who people his world, and then tells the story of the war through its impacts on them.  He designates some of his characters as &quot;viewpoint&quot; characters and tells the story through their impressions and actions.  There are a lot of viewpoint characters-at least one in each major population group.  And a very lot happens to them.  Turtledove tells the story well, and with enough significant, although sometimes whimsical, differences from geography and history to keep the reader's interest.  Finland as a desert and North Africa with polar cold are examples of the whimsey.  All of the regular characters, especially the &quot;viewpoint characters&quot;, are  interesting people, and their stories are interesting, too.  The series, however, is much too long.  Three volumes is enough, but there is at least one more, maybe two or three.  Over that much real time this reader would prefer to read several different stories.  The series is very well done for what it is, and the first three volumes, read sequentially, are engrossing.  Maybe the fourth (and fifth, etc.) will come along soon enough that the reader will remember the characters in the early volumes.	2001-05-04
US	51147050	R107U61WWTAXM2	0345428145	717221126	Murder One	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Who's Worse�the Killer or the Kops?	William Bernhardt has given us two other Ben Kincaid stories (Dark Justice, Silent Justice) and Murder One continues the saga of this not-so-typical lawyer novel hero.  Kincaid is defending 19-year-old exotic dancer Keri Dalcanton in her trial for the ghastly murder of police hero Joe McNaughton.  McNaughton was found naked, chained to the statue in a fountain in a public park one morning, dead from multiple stab wounds; the night before his wife had badgered him into going to see Keri to break off their torrid love affair.  His mutilated body was bound so tightly that his arms were broken.  Keri weighs about 100 pounds, Joe 220.  Keri was arrested and charged within hours of the time the body was discovered.  The cops are up in arms about their hero being killed, and in such a sensational fashion.  Early in the trial, Kincaid spots an error in procedure in the way the police got their  warrant to search Keri's apartment, and the case is dismissed.  Many police are enraged and vow to make Kincaid pay for getting the murderess off.  The most vehement is the cop who messed up.  In mood for revenge, the police institute the &quot;Blue Squeeze&quot; to badger Kincaid and make his life miserable.  With full SWAT team (and media) support they raid Kincaid's office, with a proper search warrant this time, and find a bloody knife in his desk.  He is then arrested for concealing evidence and for murder.  The circumstances are enough to vacate double jeopardy and bring Keri back to trial again.  Then the charges against Ben are dropped.  Keri's new trial proceeds, along with a side narrative of the tribulations of Keri's brother Kirk, who is obviously disturbed and deranged.  Kirk's actions lead to an unexpected, almost deus ex machina,  ending to the trial.  Then there is an even more bizarre ending to the novel.  The story is well told, and has some very interesting characters who weave in and around the plots twists and turns.	2001-05-03
US	51147050	R1GL9OGCXVXX2C	0446526754	705378585	Dark Winter	Books	4	18	18	N	N	26 Little Penguins	Agatha Christie took ten people off to a remote location for a weekend, and they started to die, one by one.  William Dietrich isolates twenty-six people at the South Pole for several months, and guess what?  &quot;Ten Little Indians&quot; happens to twenty-six ice- and dark-bound South Pole residents.  (There are no penguins at the Pole; they are at the ocean hundreds of miles away.)  Jed Lewis is a geologist turned meteorologist assigned as a last minute replacement to the team that will &quot;winter-over&quot; at the Amundsen-Scott Base at the South Pole.  When the plane that bought Jed leaves, along with the last of the &quot;summer people&quot;, the twenty-six remaining scientists and support staff are stranded-there will be no way in or out over the long, perpetually dark winter.  (The very real April, 2001 evacuation of a critically ill doctor from Amundsen-Scott by a heroic small plane flight from McMurdo base emphasizes he isolation of the characters in the book.)  Jed is actually a sort of secret agent.  After becoming disenchanted with his work with &quot;big oil&quot; in secretly surveying the Alaskan nature reserves for oil deposits, he is looking for a new job.  He meets a scientist who is working on global warming and needs data from the South Pole winter; but the technician who was going to winter over and collect data for him has canceled.  It also seems that the top scientist at the Pole has found a rock buried deep in the ice.  Since there are no rocks at the Pole, this must be a meteorite, but it is not the typical metallic rock.  The find must be kept secret, because it could be very valuable-scientifically and commercially.  Since Jed is a geologist, he can do the preliminary evaluation over the winter while collecting climate data.  Meanwhile, he will have several months to consider his life and his options.  In an almost foreseeable fashion, the plot begins to twist and turn when the rock disappears and then its finder is found dead.  Clue after clue points toward Jed, who is the new guy and suspicious anyway-why was a geologist sent down to do climate research?  There is romance, and there is skulduggery.  The story is told well and the reader feels the isolation and fear as everyone seeks to find an easy answer to calm their terrors.  Even if many parts of the plot are anticipated, the story is interesting-after all, Agatha Christie was not all that original in her stories, and they are still classics.	2001-05-03
US	51147050	RIB7Z1J5L9Y5Z	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spenser's Seven Samurai	After twenty-seven other Spenser novels, Robert B. Parker has to have difficulty coming up with a new idea.  In Potshot, he provides an very different twist-an adaptation of the Japanese classic, The Seven Samurai (or the US version, The Magnificent Seven). At the request of grieving widow, May Lou Buckman, Spenser journeys to the western resort town of Potshot.  It seems a gang of toughs living in the mountains outside the town are terrorizing the locals, extorting payoffs for &quot;protection&quot;.  Steve Buckman refused to pay, and was found dead by gunshot wound.  No witnesses, so no prosecution, even though everyone knows the gang in the &quot;Dell&quot; did it.  Widow Mary Lou gets a reference to Spenser, and comes east to ask him to come and  help.  When Spenser arrives, he finds the situation as bad as described.  When the town fathers ask him to help them get rid of the &quot;Dell&quot; gang, he goes on a nation-wide recruiting tour, picking up tough guys from several previous novels-starting with Hawk, of course.  The fact that he ends up with exactly seven tough guys to take on a much larger group of outlaws and deliver the little town cannot be a coincidence.  Parker's style in writing the Spenser stories has changed since the TV series.  His dialog is very close to that achieved by the characters in the teleplays.  In fact, all of the recent Spensers have had a sense of being new TV movies based on the series-and that is not necessarily bad.  All of them, this latest included, are very pleasant, entertaining reading.	2001-04-24
US	51147050	R2LRNVD72RQODJ	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Washington Intrigue and Down-and-Dirty Politics	Richard North Patterson's latest novel, Protect and Defend, takes some old characters to new places, and gives us a riveting and educational story.  As Kerry Kilcannon completes his oath of office as President of the United States, swearing to &quot;protect and defend the Constitution&quot;, the Chief Justice of a bitterly divided and partisan Supreme Court collapses and dies.  Unexpectedly, one of the new President's first acts will need to be the appointment of a new Chief, who will be the tie-breaker on the new Court.  Kilcannon, whom we met in an earlier novel when his candidate brother was assassinated, chooses Appellate Judge Caroline Masters from California, also significant in previous Patterson stories, to be the first woman Chief Justice.  At first this seems both a good political and statesmanlike call.  Masters has a solid and balanced judicial record, no controversies, and is a female.  She also impresses Kilcannon with the sensitivity of her rulings.  Then the problems start.  One of Masters' former clerks, now an associate in Master's former law firm, pro bonos for a San Francisco women's clinic.  Sarah Masters is a promising, sharp lawer.  She is also sympathetic to the case of a fifteen-year-old, six-months pregnant unwed mother-to-be who has just learned that her baby will have little, if any, brain and is unlikely to survive after birth.  Moreover, because of the baby's hydrocephalism, it must be delivered by classic c-section.  This means there is a significant risk that the mother will bear no other children.  She wants an abortion so that she will be able to have other, living children.  A new federal law, however, prohibits late term abortion for minors without parental consent.  The girl's parents are avid pro-lifers who refuse to consider consent.  Her only hope is to challenge the federal law, and to do so quickly, before she comes to term.  Since the lawyer in this case is a former clerk, and somewhat protege of the nominee for chief justice, and since the case will be heard in the nominee's appellate circuit, the case becomes a bellweather for the nominee's confirmation in the Senate.  Sides are quickly drawn, pitting a conservative Republican majority against a brand new President who barely squeaked by in his election.  The politics are dirty, the characters are finely drawn, and the story is fascinating.  Patterson has produced a winner.  This reader's only concern with the books is the near sterotyping of some of the characters.  Like TV's West Wing, most of the republicans are almost single-issue demagogues and most of the democrats are rational, sensitive, moderates.  Rational, sensitive, conservatives do exist, but they don't get much play; and some democrats do take knee-jerk, extreme and single issue positions.  But, hey, this is a novel and it is a darn good story.	2001-02-15
US	51147050	R2R3WS0T0E0FIE	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Dark Side's Shadow Looms	The time line that is the basis for Robert Heinlein's &quot;future history&quot; series includes a takeover of the United State by a religious &quot;theocracy&quot;.  He wrote Revolt in 2100 to tell how the theocracy was overthrown and the republic reestablished, but he never told the story of how the theocracy came to be.  Reportedly, he said that writing that story would be too depressing.  As a result, readers must wonder how it might have happened, and how that master storyteller would have presented it.  The Star Wars Saga presented us with a similar conundrum.  The original Star Wars trilogy, as Revolt in 2100, begins with the tyranny in place and the  revolution beginning.  The trilogy carries the revolution through to its successful conclusion, and many supplemental books have projected what happens beyond the movie set.  Then the movies return, but at a time well before the downfall of the &quot;Republic&quot;.  Readers are still curious about what happens in between.  In Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter, Michael Reaves gives us a hint about what happens.  The story is not conclusive-there is a least one more book, maybe several, in the unresolved story.  And we know the eventual outcome.  It takes a very good storyteller to pique your interest while telling a story where you already know the ending, and don't like it. Reaves is a good storyteller.  This is not a happy story.  Good guys die and bad guys win.  Still, for the curious it sets up the downfall of the Republic and rise of the Emperor.  Shadow Hunter is set even before the most recent movie; Obi-Wan is just a senior apprentice Jedi at this point, and only a contributing character.  Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter is light reading, but interesting.	2001-02-15
US	51147050	R3XW08XH9MAZJ	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Angels Dancing on Pinheads	There is an old philosophy/theology question about &quot;How many angels can dance on the head of a pin?&quot;  According to the characters in Dean Koontz's new novel, From the Corner of His Eye, the answer might be: as many as there are, or might be, here and in all of the other places where the pin is.  Koontz has a magnificent talent for description and for interweaving story lines about different people in different places, then bringing them all together in a logical and entertaining fashion.  He does this again in  From the Corner of His Eye.  The three different story lines in this novel are: (1) Agnes Lampion, the Pie Lady, in Southern California, who loses her husband in a traffic accident on the way to the hospital to give birth to son Bartholomew, who turns out to be a prodigy; (2) Celestina White, a young, aspiring artist in San Francisco who takes on the task of raising her little sister Seraphim's illegitimate child, Angel (also a prodigy), after her sister dies giving birth to this product of rape; and (3) Junior (Enoch) Cain, an amoral self-improvement enthusiast who kills his wife on impulse while they are on a picnic.  Junior is pursued by homicide detective Thomas Vanadium.  These names are carefully selected, as in much older morality tales, where the name of the actor gives you immediate insight into their character.  There is a significant toll of homicide through the story, and also factoids about natural and people-created disasters with high death tolls.  In the end, the surviving characters come together in a very satisfying and uplifting ending.  Policeman Vanadium does tricks with quarters.  At first this seems just to be one of his tools in &quot;softening up&quot; suspects in interrogation and in amusing children.  Later on we learn how this is much more, and connected with quantum mechanics (which makes a lot of sense as long as you don't think hard about it-but anyway, it works!)  It is always a pleasure to read Koont'z, and his latest work is no exception.	2001-01-26
US	51147050	R1YV0X9X8OPK5V	0345428293	206865868	Trust Fund	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not Your All-American Family	The Hancock family of Connecticut might be modeled somewhat after the Kennedy's of Massachusetts.  There is the irascible old man who rules the family and its fortunes with an iron fist; the bright, politically-oriented son who is being groomed for President; a younger son who is bright, but spends far too much time looking into a bottle; and various others.  In Trust Fund, Stephen Frey sets this family into a Ludlumesque plot where a cabal of current and former politicos are working to create a surveillance system that makes &quot;Big Brother&quot; a piker.  Bo Hancock, the hard-working, hard-drinking youngest son, is a financial genius who manages the family fortune, which is mostly wrapped up in the Warfield Fund.  The oldest brother is the titular head of the business, with their father in the background but still calling most of the important shots.  The middle son is a candidate for President in a close race.  The family (father) decides Bo might be a detriment to the campaign, separates him from the business, and exiles him to Montana.  The &quot;facts&quot; which are presented to justify this action are not true, according to Bo, but his protests are ignored.  He dutifully takes his family to Montana, but after a year he is ready to return.  Not only does he miss the action, but the information pipeline he maintained indicates that his successor is endangering both the family's and their associated investor's capital.  Skulduggery directed against Bo proceeds, but then his father dies and he returns both to mourn and to reclaim his place.  What follows is something of a mishmash.  There is a lot of murder and conspiracy, and the story is interesting, but somewhat confusing.  Behind all of the shennanigans is a cabal financed in part by Hancock pere to help assure his son's election.  Others are involved because they are dedicated to maintaining national security, and feel that civil rights violations are not important if the people don't know about them; butusing computers to dig up the dirt (or manufacture some) on people who need to be influenced is good practice.  The story gets resolved, with a happy ending, but the conclusion is an unsatisfying epilogue.  Trust Fund is an interesting read, but this reader wonders what someone like Ludlum could have done with it.	2001-01-26
US	51147050	R50SEJSIEIIKV	078600584X	539771013	Presumption Of Guilt	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Atlanta Police on the Spot	The two things that make Presumption of Guilt fun to read are its setting-contemporary Atlanta-and the wonderful skill with which Lelia Kelly describes both the city, his history, and its residents.  The plot is solid, a classic lawyer-crime drama, but Kelly's rich narrative asides make this book more than it might be otherwise.  The protagonist is Laura Chastain, a lawyer with an old-line Atlanta corporate firm.  A senior associate, she is on a fast track to become a partner.  The only problem is that she has developed a taste for criminal law, and the partners of her firm tend to think that is too vulgar.  That opinion, however, does not stop the partners from calling on her when one of the firm's corporate clients needs a criminal lawyer.  The story starts with the end of the trial where she successfully defended the neer-do-well son of one of the firm's biggest clients against an assault charge.  She is soon approached by a vice squad cop who expects to be charged in the death of a prisoner.  He insists he is innocent, but if he is, then there is some skulduggery going on down at police headquarters.  As Laura investigates she becomes more and more convinced that something strange is going on.  She also becomes more and more involved with the dashing young bachelor partner who is her supervisor in the firm.  There are interesting twists and turns before Kelly leads us to an interesting and suspenseful conclusion.  Maybe it's having spent twenty-five years in Atlanta that makes me think that Kelly's descriptions of the city are so rich.  Example: &quot;...it's growth had occurred late enough to allow planners to benefit from the lessors on older cities, but they hadn't.  Atlanta, Laura believed, actually aspired to be Los Angeles.&quot; And:&quot; Atlanta...had become the embodiment of the Old South for much of the world-all because it had been burned, first by Sherman, then by Hollywood.  It was the second, fictional burning that had done the most damage.&quot;Whether you lived in Atlanta or not, you should enjoy Presumption of Guilt.	2001-01-23
US	51147050	R3LJKHLMA0NNWA	055380099X	720736629	Last Puzzle & Testament	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Puzzling Case	Last Puzzle and Testament is an intriguing approach to the &quot;whodunit&quot; genre.  Set in a small town and revolving around the rich old maid who dies and her money-grubbing relatives, the story has the potential to be just another one of hundreds of similar stories.  The gimmick that makes this novel different is the crossword writing amateur sleuth and a treasure hunt for the heirs that is based on, you guessed it, a crossword puzzle.  Cora Felton is a celebrity in the small town of Bakershaven.  She is cruciverbalist, a crossword puzzle constructor, with a national syndication as The Puzzle Lady.  The only problem is that she knows more about multiple marriages and martinis than vocabulary.  Cora's niece and companion, the divorced Sherry Carter, is really the crossword expert, but started using her aunt as a front for her image and to overcome the problem of being too young for credibility.  Now they are stuck with the subterfuge.  When elderly spinster Emma Hurley dies her attorney, following her instructions, assembles the potential heirs and informs them that the bulk of the estate is to be awarded to the first one to solve a puzzle she has devised.  She also names the local celebrity, The Puzzle Lady, as the sole judge and referee.  Then, as the puzzle solving begins, people start to die.  The twists and turns of the puzzle, and of the detecting, involve Sherry and Cora in a variety of situations, all leading up to a very unexpected resolution.  Part of the charm of this mystery is the character of Cora herself.  A good-heated soul, she just drinks a little more than she should, and a lot more often.  She and Sherry go through some interesting gyrations in order to cover up that Cora just doesn't have what it takes to solve, much less create, a crossword puzzle.  The romantic interest is provided by Aaron Grant, reporter for the Bakershaven Gazette.  He has already figured out that Sherry really writes the crosswords, but wants her to tell him as a signof their developing relationship.  Sherry, on the other hand, doesn't feel right about letting a relationship develop until she tells him the truth.  Every time one of them is about to bring the matter to a head, something happens to distract them.  Last Puzzle and Testament, by Parnell Hall is an amusing little mystery, well worth the read.	2001-01-23
US	51147050	R1SEGYVIZGK57Q	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Children Lead�And Win	Orson Scott Card has written several novels, but is perhaps best known for his series of stories about Ender (Andrew) Wiggin, the prodigy who led the military of the interplanetary federation in its successful defense against interstellar invasion.  Backed up by a group of other children almost as brilliant as he, Ender is responsible for the tactics that provide for a successful counterattack that defeats the enemy and destroys them and their home world completely.  After the last battle, Ender moves on into the colonization of space and works through the personal and corporate trauma of the genocide that was necessary for human survival.  After taking Ender's story to its conclusion in a series of novels, Card took an interesting tack, returned to the beginning of the story, and retold it from the point of view of characters who were supporting actors in the original.  Primary among these were Ender's principal aides, Bean and Petra, and Ender's brother Peter, who was barely mentioned in the original.  This new story was appropriately titled Ender's Shadow.  That story line is concluded very effectively in Card's new book, Shadow of the Hegemon.  After the war is over, and Ender has gone off to colonize deep space, the children who were trained to be soldiers and who helped Ender are returned to Earth and their families.  The transition is difficult, since they are used to being treated far differently as they are at home.  People can't seem to realize that they are not just children any more.  When all of the members of Ender's inner circle, except one, are kidnapped, it seems that someone knows they are more than just children, and wants to use their special skills.  Petra is one of those captured.  Bean is the sole escapee.  With Peter's help, Bean launches an effort to rescue the others and foil whoever it is that has taken them.  Card's Ender Wiggin fans seemed to be pleased with the return of the prodigies in Ender's Shadow.  They will also be pleased with the neat ways in which Card continues and concludes the story in Shadow of the Hegemon.  It is not very often that an author creates supporting characters who are so interesting in their own right that they deserve their own stories.	2001-01-23
US	51147050	R1MB3CS6Q437E5	0312269595	734957500	The Tin Collectors	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not The Ordinary Cop Story	The Tin Collectors is Cannell's sixth novel.  At first blush it seems to be just another basic, good, cop story; but it develops into something more, going beyond the action and plot into relationships.  LAPD detective Shane Scully receives a call in the middle of the night from Barbara, his one-time girl friend who is married to his ex-partner, super cop Ray Molar.  Ray has gone berserk and she needs help.  Shane dashes the five miles to their house and finds Ray about to kill Barbara.  When Shane intervenes, Ray tries to shoot him.  Shane returns fire in self defense and kills Ray.  This is a difficult situation, but Shane knows he is in the right and expects that all will work out.  Ha!  For reasons Shane cannot figure out, the top administration of the police department quickly elevates the situation to a major affair and turn it over to Internal Affairs.  The Internal Affairs Division is informally known as &quot;The Tin Collectors&quot; because of their high rate of convicting cops and collecting their &quot;tin&quot; (badges).  Shane's case is assigned to an IAD prosecutor brought back from another assignment.  An earlier investigation of Shane in which he was exonerated was one of her few defeats.  Several young cops for whom Ray was something of an idol are assigned minor roles in the investigation and make things difficult for Shane.  Why are these cops even involved-their normal assignments are far from IAD business?  In the end justice prevails, although it takes some skillful writing to resolve the situation without artificial solutions.  Along with the standard cop story, Shane is involved with a fifteen year-old problem child.  The boy's single mother has asked Shane to let her son, Chooch, stay with him for a month or so in order to have a good male role model.  The relationship between the mother, the boy, and Shane is slow to develop, but adds significantly to the overall impact of the book.  I thought the book was very slow in the beginning, and almost put it down.  I am glad I didn't.  It was not until I was nearly through that I realized that Cannell is best known for his screen writing (The Rockford Files, Hunter...).  The early pages probably work better on screen than on paper.  In retrospect, they visualize very well and do set the stage effectively.	2001-01-12
US	51147050	R3736L9F197W44	0440221463	472161856	All Our Yesterdays	Books	4	20	21	N	N	The Way to Dusty Death	Surprise! Surprise!  This Robert B. Parker novel is not only not about Spenser and Hawk foiling the bad guys by playing the game just a little close (or even just over) to the line of legal behavior.  It isn't even about a private detective.  Parker's All Our Yesterdays (as in Macbeth's &quot;have lighted fools their way to dusty death.&quot; is a generational saga reminiscent of Jeffrey Archer--and at least as good.  The setting is still the Boston of Spenser, Hawk, and Susan, but not the trendy, yuppie Boston they frequent.  Instead we are in Charlestown, the lace-curtain Irish district, and following the lives of three Boston cops.  The first, Conn Sheridan, was a sixteen year old sniper during the Easter Rebellion in Dublin.  Later, after breaking out of a British jail just before his hanging, he immigrated to Boston where he joined the police.  Conn was involved with the young wife of an American industrialist, a Boston Brahmin, in Dublin.  Conn's son, Gus, inherits his father's secrets and rises to power in Boston Homicide, while connections to the underworld enable him to send his son, Chris, to Harvard Law.  Eventually Chris, who is unknowingly involved with the granddaughter of his grandfather's lover, is appointed special investigator to stop a gang war and catch a serial killer of teenaged girls.  Gus, however, already knows about the killer--his father caught him and let him go years before.  After everything comes apart, Chris goes to Dublin to find his roots and understand the story his father has finally told him.  The book is Chris telling the story in flashbacks to Grace as they try to reconcile their life together.  It is a well-told story, with love, hate, war, revolution, cops and robbers, and some interesting twists and turns.  It is much more complex than Spenser and Hawk shooting down the bad guys while Susan worries and supports.  All Our Yesterdays  is a good read.	2001-01-04
US	51147050	R2PXP6PCQHQ5S5	0399146504	180800665	The Devil's Code (Kidd)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Hackers Not Kidding Around	After several excellent novels about Minneapolis police detective Lucas Davenport, John Sandford returns to his original character, Kidd.  Kidd is very different from Lucas, although there are some similarities.  One major difference is that Kidd is a crook.  He steals technology and business secrets.  He does this mostly for fun, but it does supplement his income as a painter.  Returning from a Canadian fishing trip, Kidd is met at the airport by the sister of Jack Morrison, one of his hacker (and criminal) friends.  Jack is dead, killed in a shootout with security guards at the high-tech business where he was a consultant.  It appears that he had sneaked into the office to pirate some files and started shooting when a patrolling guard came by.  Lane Ward, Jack's sister, doesn't buy it.  Jack hated guns and would certainly not be carrying one, much less start shooting.  Since he had told her that if anything ever happened to him she should call Kidd, here she is.  Kidd isn't all that interested, until he discovers that she knows all about his nefarious side-Jack told Lane about his capers with Kidd.  Kidd agrees to go along and at least look into the situation.  Now the reader already knows that Jack was murdered and the shootout with the security guard was a setup.  Sandford told us that in the first chapter.  But Jack was the second murder in that chapter.  The first was an official with the National Security Agency who was shot down on the street near Washington.  Kidd and Lane start to investigate and are almost killed by accident when the bad guys burn down Jack's house with them in it.  In a series of both physical and computer-driven investigations Kidd and Lane begin to uncover the plot.  Kidd brings in LuEllen, his cohort from the previous novels.  LuEllen is a real thief, not a computer hacker.  She does second story work with precision and vigor.  With LuEllen's help and his network of hacker buddies Kidd solves the mystery, makes a little money on the side, and straightens out the National Security Agency.  The bad guys all get what's coming to them.  There is a little collateral damage to some of the characters along the way.  Kidd is not the kind of character to build a successful series on.  Sandford was wise to drop him and create Lucas Davenport and the &quot;Prey&quot; novels.  Returning to Kidd gives Sandford a break from developing Lucas plots, and perhaps Lucas will return with new vigor.  There is just too much reliance on hacker buddies providing all the answers as soon as Kidd dreams up a question-Sanford's version of deus ex machina.  The story is well crafted and an entertaining read.	2001-01-04
US	51147050	R1I31TYQGSHOT9	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Self Help for the Budding Author	After more than thirty block-buster thrillers, horror-meister Stephen King has penned an unusual primer for the prospective writer.  This is not a simple &quot;how-to&quot; but is an interesting perspective of the author, his background, and his approach to his craft.  (Although he seems to think of it more as his addiction.)  Additional significance comes to the book because King was working on it when he was almost killed in a vehicle-pedestrian accident in the summer of 1999.  After leaving the hospital, King returned to the book and finished it as part of his therapy.  The book is in three parts.  The first part is biographical.  King relates his background, including his early urges to write stories, in order, in his words, &quot;to show how one writer was formed.&quot;  The second part is a treatise on the business of writing.  King uses the analogy of a carpenter's toolbox, along with a story of how he once helped his uncle replace a window screen.  After lugging the massive (and heavy) toolbox to the job site, his uncle used only a single screwdriver to complete the job.  When King asked him why carry the whole box when only one single tool was needed, the uncle responded &quot;I didn't know what else I might find to do one I got out here, did I?  It's best to have your tools with you.  If you don't, you're apt to find something you didn't expect and get discouraged.&quot;  The third part recounts King's near-fatal accident, his recovery, and thoughts on living and writing-which to him are the same thing.  All three parts of the book are interesting.  For someone interested in writing as well as reading, the middle part is the most significant.  King does not present any new, world-shaking formula for good writing, but he restates many of the standard guidelines in the no-nonsense style that is the hallmark of his novels.  This is a far cry from presentation of style manuals and creative writing courses.  He does provide emphasis on certain points-some of the tools in the artisan's toolbox.  Anyone who likes to read and/or write should enjoy this book immensely.  (There's an adverb-sorry, Stephen-but I have tried to avoid passive voice and long sentences.)	2001-01-04
US	51147050	R2QJSNR97AOPT3	0425151867	399944420	Acceptable Risk	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Cook Risks Varying His Formula	Robin Cook's Acceptable Risk  is something of a departure for this popular author, but the risk Cook took by trying something new has an acceptable conclusion.  Many authors find a formula and stick with it.  Their fans eagerly await each new effort with new characters filling virtually identical plots.  Sometimes when these authors want to do something different they have to publish their different kind of book under a different name.  Cook's previous books have not had identical plots, but they almost always have a medico, usually female, who stumbles upon a nefarious medically related scheme and at great personal risk exposes the bad guys.  Acceptable Risk  does involve medicine, and is based in Massachusetts, frequently the case in Cook's works.  However, while there is a drug research theme, the book is really about the Salem witch trials of the 1600's-but brought forward into the present.  The protagonist, Kimberly Stewart, is a surgical nurse at Mass General.  She is also descended from one of the women whom the Puritans executed for witchcraft--but the family doesn't talk about it.  She becomes involved with a research scientist and incidentally the two of them decide to research her family history relative to the Salem trials.  They can find no evidence that her ancestress was involved, in spite of family legend.  Kimberly and her boyfriend try to resolve the discrepancy, and stumble upon a possible fungus-related cause for the whole witch hunt episode--while the boyfriend stumbles upon a possible billion dollar behavior modification drug.  As the story unfolds the two principals undergo their own changes, and the novel provides a subtle commentary on the trend today to treat personal and social problems with new and improved chemistry.  It all comes out okay in the end, but many have to pay a bitter price for the lessons they learn.  There are no real villains in  Acceptable Risk --just some archetypical types who fit the general format of a Robin Cook novel.  There is just as much tension and suspense as Cook usually provides, but in a different kind of vehicle.	2001-01-04
US	51147050	R2ODU1FLCKYQHB	0399146687	239822085	Perish Twice	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Parallel Unicops	Robert B. Parker is best known for his Spenser novels.  A hallmark of  the Spenser stories is the sensitivity of the tough but not-so-hard-boiled private eye and the relationships among the supporting cast.  Parker's new series about a female private eye closely parallels the old series.  Perish Twice is the second go-around for Sunny Randall, introduced last year in Family Honor.  This time she has three parallel &quot;cases.&quot; (Like Spenser, she doesn't let little things like having paying clients affect her desire to investigate.  After all, what she really wants is to know the answers.)  Her paying client (for a while, at least) is a militant feminist who wants protection from whoever is making threats.  But she doesn't want to call in the police because they are sexist pigs and her business is none of theirs.  So Sunny is her body guard, escorting her to and from work.  When Sunny quickly spots and identifies the stalker, the client does not want her to do anything, and is angry at Sunny for making the ID.  Strange!  Then a staffer in the client's office is murdered and Sunny is fired by her client because she, against the client's orders, identifies the stalker to the police.  The stalker is then found dead with a suicide note and a pistol in his hand, so the police wrap up both cases.  Murder followed by guilt-induced suicide.  Sunny is not satisfied, however, and pursues the case on her own.  Along the way she also has to deal with her pre-feminist-consciousness sister, who thinks her husband is cheating on her and with a mid-life crisis on the part of her best friend, who is a counselor who doesn't want to deal with her situation.  Sunny's ex-husband (who shares custody of their dog and is a frequent date) and friend Spike complete the main cast.  There are also assorted cops and bad guys who are typical of Parker's menagerie.  The conversations are clones of those among Spenser, Hawk, and Susan - and that is a favorable recommendation.  Sunny Randall is not Spenser - but then again she is in many ways.  We enjoy Spenser time after time, and now we can enjoy Sunny for all of the same reasons.	2000-12-23
US	51147050	R252F712DXWRSB	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Fifties Flashback	Ken Follett has a knack for building a suspense thriller around historical events, even one which might have been routine.  His latest novel, Code to Zero, is a perfect example.  While the 1958 launch of Explorer I, putting America into space and starting the drive to catch up with and surpass the Soviet's space initiative was historically significant, it is not something a reader would expect to inspire an espionage thriller.  Evidence of Follett's writing skill is that he keeps the suspense level high while we all know the launch was successful.  Code to Zero begins with an apparent bum waking up in the men's toilet at Union Station in Washington, D.C.  He has no memory of who he is or even where he is, much less how he got there.  Someone else in the room guides him toward a shelter for food, and calls him &quot;Luke.&quot;  As he wanders around, however, he discovers that he has skills.  He notices that he is being followed, that he knows how to elude his shadowers, that he knows how to &quot;live off the land&quot; in an urban setting.  He also realizes that he has no cravings for drink or drugs.  Something must be wrong.  Luke's adventures do not have the anxiety dream character that Robert Ludlum provides in his novels.  Luke proceeds logically and makes progress in his quest for identity and explanation.  He finds help along the way, of course.  In this case there is the amazing coincidence of having also in D.C. Luke's former girlfriend who is a specialist in memory loss, and two more of his college friends who served with him in the O.S.S. during World War II.  It still works, aided immensely by Follet's use of flashbacks to develop the characters as we meet them and as their parts in the drama grow.  Code to Zero is good, solid Follett, and a pleasure to read.	2000-12-23
US	51147050	RXU5E1HMBBZYH	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	4	14	18	N	N	This Book Has Redeeming Qualities	David Eddings is the author of two very good fantasy series.  The Belgariad and The Mallorean are two parts of one continuing story about a peasant boy who becomes a prince and who, as an adult, saves the world-with help from an ageless wizard and his also ageless daughter.  The Elenium and The Tamuli, also a two-story set, are about a knight in black armor who first saves and marries the princess and then with the princess saves the world.  The background to the Belariad and Mallorean stories was so complex, although the stories still had good flow, that Eddings supplied the full background, from two points of view, in Belgrath the Sorcerer and Polgara the Sorceress.  About the time of these latter books, it was announced that Mrs. Eddings - Leigh - was a full co-author and not just a helpmate providing significant support.  The latest Eddings work is listed under both names, and both can be proud.  The Redemption of Althalus starts out very slowly.  The hero - using that term loosely - is Althalus, who is an unmitigated thief and murderer.  He is a pleasant enough fellow if you don't have anything he wants, and is a joyful drinking companion and storyteller; but still, he is not a character to like.  After a run of bad luck, Althalus takes a commission to journey to the ends of the earth and steal a book.  He arrives at this destination to be greeted by a talking cat who enthralls him and begins his conversion.  It seems that the Creator God, who loves order, has an evil twin who loves chaos.  The bad God has sent his minion to hire Althalus to steal the Creator God's book.  If the bad guys possess the good guy's book, then they can reverse creation and chaos will reign.  However, there is a sister-goddess who represents love and life, and she recruits Althalus to help her defeat her evil brother.  As they travel about and recruit other desciples, and then take on the evil ones desciples, Althalus changes, but still remains the ever-irreverent scamp.  Readers of the Belgariad and Mallorean stories will recall with pleasure the conversations between Polgara as &quot;Aunt Pol&quot; and Silk, the coniving confidence man and gambler who is really a prince but who doesn't like the responsibility of royalty.  This byplay was a minor chord in those stories, but did add flavor to the main story.  The Redemption of Althalus takes that byplay into a major theme where the characters can develop a relationship.  The Eddings do this very well, and a book which was slow to start because the character is unlikeable becomes an exciting story where the character becomes someone to cheer for.  The Eddings certainly redeemed Althalus for me.  Maybe they will for you as well.	2000-12-21
US	51147050	R1GD000UXHIRAV	0399146644	864794808	L.A. Dead (Stone Barrington)	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Gone and Soon Forgotten	Stuart Woods has written some very good novels.  Chiefs, his first, may even be great.  Several of the stories in the continuing story of the Lee family of Meriwether County have been quite good.  Palindrome was as fine a mystery-thriller as one could ask for.  His Stone Barrington stories, the latest of which is L. S. Dead, have steadily declined.  The series recounts the adventures of a New York homicide cop turned lawyer named Stone Barrington.  His recurring lady love is Arrington Carter.  The tone of their relationship was set when (in Wood's Dirt) upon being introduced Arrington quipped that she could never marry Barrington.  Well, she didn't, although they have had a continuing relationship.  Stone planned to propose while they were on a Carribean sailing vacation (Dead in the Water), but Arrington did not come, and ended up married to a movie star.  In L. A. Dead Arrington's husband is found murdered and Arrington is the prime suspect.  When Stone receives her call for help, he drops everything.  The problem is that he is in Venice, has just finished the civil wedding ceremony and is about to head to the cathedral for the church ceremony.  His almost-wife is not pleased that he must interrupt marrying her to head for Los Angeles to see about his former girl friend.  Her father, an organized crime kingpin, is much more understanding.  The jilted Dolce (who is not very sweet - Woods does have fun with naming his characters) pursues Stone and insists that she is Mrs. Barrington.  Stone does get involved in the murder investigation, gets involved with movie stars, gets reinvolved with Arrington, and works on becoming uninvolved with Dolce.  The ending resolves some things and leaves more options for continuing the series.  I would rather see Woods work more on the Lee family, introduced in Chiefs.  Those stories have been more interesting and less adolescent. Woods is a skillful writer, and L. A. Dead is a good way to kill a long wait at  the airport or otherwise passing time.  The reader who does not expect much will not be disappointed.	2000-12-21
US	51147050	R19F8FOS2F7MJ6	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Anxiety Dream by Ludlum	Robert Ludlum is the master of novels which contribute to conspiracy theory and anxiety dreams.  He has combined these elements again in The Prometheus Deception, his twenty-third novel.  His formula, which has been so successful, takes a character who has or is about to retire from spying, or who doesn't know who he is, or who does not suspect who he really is, and places him in a dangerous mission to penetrate an international cabal which is about to destroy or enslave the world.  No one is better than Ludlum in creating a cabal: &quot;Inver Brass&quot;; the &quot;Sicillian Shepherd Boy&quot;; and now &quot;The Directorate&quot; which becomes &quot;Prometheus.&quot;  And these cabals all have tentacles into all of the halls of power.  Wandering through the anxiety dream of  The Prometheus Deception is Nicholas Bryson, a career spy for the Directorate put out to pasture five years ago.  He is approached by the grand old man of the CIA and informed that his former employer was not the super-secret off-the-books US spy agency he thought it was.  In fact, it was a deep-cover KGB operation for which Bryson had not helped save the world for democracy but had almost won the cold war for the Soviets by subverting many key CIA operations.  Convinced that there may be something to the story, Bryson tries to recontact the Directorate and its head man, his old mentor.  There is an immediate attempt on his life, which he barely escapes.  Then he is off on his adventure: destroying ships at sea, evading terrorist attacks in crowded European cities, and evading old colleagues out to get his head.  It seems that his old agency has become Prometheus and is about to conquer the world, and the world won't even know it!  In formula fashion Bryson meets and is assisted by a beautiful female agent.  Ludlum provides an interesting twist in the standard formula with the roles of Layla, the beautiful Mossad agent, and Byson's wife, Elena, who left him just before he was &quot;retired&quot; by the Directorate.  Turning many suspenseful pages, the reader helps Bryson foil the dastards and once again retire, knowing that the world is safe again and Prometheus has been consigned to the flames.  Or has it?  The ending sets up a good premise for a sequel.  The Prometheus Deception is classic Ludlum which will be enjoyed by his many fans-and maybe even create a few new ones.	2000-12-07
US	51147050	R2MVLV7COM80JN	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Black Notice Faded Gray	The tenth Kay Scarpetta novel by Patricia Cornwell was entitled Black Notice.  The eleventh, The Last Precinct picks up in the daylight following the night of terror that ended Black Notice.  As with all of the Scarpetta novels, Cornwell presents a well-told story, filled with suspense and surprises.  This reader's primary criticism of the second half of the Scarpetta saga has been two-fold.  First, Cornwell has tended to the soap opera, with Kay's unfortunate love affairs, colleague Pete Marino's bitterness, and niece Lucy's lesbianism and career problems sometimes seeming to be more important than the story line.  Second, Cornwell has by choice or inability tended to make each novel depend heavily on its predecessor.  Unless the reader has a very good memory or has read the earlier novel(s) recently, there is a lot in each subsequent book that is unexplained.  The result is more of a serial-multiple episodes in one continuing story-than a series of independent stories about the same character.  The Last Precinct is actually the second half of the  Black Notice story.  It is almost like the old TV series &quot;Arrest and Trial&quot; or its modern counterpart &quot;Law and Order.&quot;  In the first half the police investigate and make the arrest; and the second half is the trial.  In the &quot;Law and Order&quot; model, there is just not as much action in the trial phase compared to the investigation phase.  This is the case in The Last Precinct.  Cornwell does attempt to rectify this, and there is an ongoing investigation with some real surprises.  There is also a lot of retrospection by Kay about the past, which helps fill in gaps the current story leaves about significant events in earlier ones.  The novel does leave the reader with some unanswered questions.  Is Cornwell about to remove Kay Scarpetta from being Chief Medical Examiner for the Commonweath of Virginia? Is a change of venue from Richmond to New York coming soon?  The ending of The Last Precinct hasdefinitely set up the possibility for a part three of this story (or is it part twelve?) in New York.  Will that be a one-time shot, or the start of a new direction for the series?  If Kay moves to New York, what will happen to Pete Marino?  Tune in next year.	2000-11-19
US	51147050	R2THJC0GPMG76	0060194243	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: India 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Another Sharpe Novel from Cornwell	Bernard Cornwell writes historical fiction, most of it in the old style of Forrester's Hornblower and F. Van Wyck Mason.  Much of his work has been the story of Richard Sharpe and his adventures as a member of Wellington's British army during the Peninsula Campaign in the war against Napoleon's France.  The character Richard Sharpe is an illegitimate orphan from London's workhouses who enlisted in the army one step ahead of prison and hanging.  He served in Wellington's army in India and saved Wellington's life in a battle.  As a reward he was made an officer.  The Sharpe's Rifles series begins with Richard as a Lieutenant, and takes him through battles and hard-earned promotions to Waterloo.  Eight of the novels were made into a BBC television series, which has been shown on US public television and which is available on cassette.  Cornwell wrote one additional book in the series, filling in between two earlier ones, and one Sharpe novel which occurs well after the Napoleonic Wars.  He then started a &quot;prequel&quot; series providing background and telling the story of Richard Sharpe in India.  Sharpe's Fortress is the fourth in the series set in India.  Richard is already commissioned, and is just beginning to feel the alienation from fellow-officers because he isn't a gentleman.  He is also learning to deal with enmity from enlisted soldiers because he isn't a proper officer-a gentleman who gives orders by right.  The series of battles which led to the defeat of the Mahrattas and established the British Raj in India is interesting history.  This novel begins with the Battle of Argaum and ends with the Siege of Gawilghur, which broke the back of the Mahratta empire.  Now Sharpe and Wellington will be heading back to England, and this reader hopes that Cornwell will have more exciting stories to cover the six years between the end of this book and the beginning of Sharpe's Rifles.  Richard Sharpe is to the British Army what Horatio Hornblower was to the BritishNavy.  And Cornwell's stories are wonderful reading.	2000-11-07
US	51147050	R2HCBKY9LUJCD2	0399146164	501935513	Riptide	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Confusion and Cross-Currents	Riptide, the title of Catherine Coulter's latest, is the name of a town where much of the action occurs.  It also describes a shore condition where the wave action is confused by conflicting currents.  Confusion created by conflicting currents well describes the situation for Coulter's heroine, Rebecca Matlock.  A successful speech-writer for the governor of New York, Matlock begins to be plagued by a stalker.  The police are unable to help, and then she heads for New York City as her mother goes into the final stages of cancer.  The stalker follows and kills someone to show Becca how much he cares.  The New York police, however, seem to think that Becca is at fault.  Harassed by both police and stalker, Becca flees as soon as her mother dies and settles in Riptide using an alias.  Riptide is a remote village which she knows of only because it was the hometown of a nerdy guy she befriended in college.  Becca is surprised to find that her old friend Andy is not only no longer nerdy, he is a hunky sort of techno-wizzard who has moved back home.  He has been abandoned by his wife and left with his stepson, a child who seems a little disturbed.  As a relationship begins to develop with both Andy and Sam, along comes a guy Becca thinks may be the stalker, but who turns out to be someone who knows she is in trouble and is trying to help her.  Why?  He is being her &quot;guardian angel&quot; as a favor to a friend.  Who is the friend?  Why does he care about now-orphan Becca?  Add another crosscurrent when, after a heavy rain the cellar wall of Becca's rental house blows out and exposes a skeleton.  Is this what happened to Andy's wife?  If so, why would she be buried in the cellar wall of this house-not Andy's?  The riptide of plot currents keeps a reader off balance.  Just when you think you have this one figured out, then you don't.  Riptide is a solid read, which will keep your interest.	2000-10-07
US	51147050	R14P8NHSP64RKH	0679450432	835692581	Dark Lady	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Politics, Murder, and Strange Bedfellows	Richard North Patterson's latest, Dark Lady, is a well-crafted lawyer-cop-political tale which will hold your interest.  The protagonist is Stella Marz, a single, 38-year old Assistant County Prosecutor who wants not to be the assistant.  But that means she would have to be the first woman elected to the job.  Her boss is running for mayor, but if he is elected will he back her or his long-time friend and political ally in the special election?  The political environment in this rust-belt metropolis is complex, with the electorate fairly evenly split between African-American and the children of Central European immigrants.  Stella is a tough, competent prosecutor who seldom loses and whose dedication and tough stance has earner her the sobriquet of &quot;Dark Lady.&quot; Patterson deftly brings out Stella's background and its effect on her current viewpoint.  A reader comes to know her and the difficulties she surmounted to reach what might have become the critical point in both her career and her life.  Dark Lady may not be a great book, but it is a story well told.	2000-10-07
US	51147050	R2FB1J08JFYIFH	0375500693	414133865	Murder in Foggy Bottom (Capital Crimes)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Broader Scope for Truman	In this latest of Margaret Truman's homicidal tour of Washington landmarks and regions, the author expands her scope beyond the single homicide in DC to mass murder by terrorists.  There is a Murder in Foggy Bottom to start the book, but this murder seems almost to be incidental to the story, which quickly moves to the cabin on a commuter airline which crashes soon after takeoff from Westchester County, NY.  But then we learn that at almost the same time there have been commuter airline crashes in Idaho and California.  Three crashes in one day is too much for coincidence, and then evidence of SAM missiles is found in the wreckage.  There is the expected panic and concern as the FBI and looks into domestic terrorist organizations while the State Department and the CIA look overseas.  The story is strong, the characters are believable, and the suspense is maintained.  While Mac and Annabel Smith, the usual primary characters in Truman's series, are present in supporting roles, the principal characters are different.  One interesting aspects of this book is the fact that there are multiple characters, almost an ensemble, who carry the story line to an interesting conclusion.	2000-10-07
US	51147050	R33UO244ROQNZR	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Genocide and Prison Comedy	Elmore Leonard is well-known for irreverence and &quot;strange&quot; characters.  Pagan Babies does not lessen that reputation.  The title refers to the wording of signs on change collection jars in the lunch rooms of Catholic schools, collecting donations for missionaries in far off Africa and other remote locations.  Father Terry Dunn arrived at the rural Rwandan mission run by his uncle just before the old man died and the Hutus began their genocide against the Tutsis.  Gathering fearful Tutsi parishioners into the church, Father Dunn is celebrating the Mass as Hutus break in and slaughter the congregation.  Five years later the bodies are still on the floor of the church and Dunn celebrates the Mass only on special occasions and hears confessions in the yard of his house-when he gets around to it.  When a Hutu brags rather than confesses about participating in the church slaughter and others, and promises more to come soon, Dunn is faced with a dilemma.  In an unusual way he solves the problem the day he leaves for hometown Detroit for home leave-but Terry Dunn is an unusual priest.  Dunn went to Africa just before the Detroit police came to call about his involvement in transporting truckloads of cigarettes across state lines without benefit of local taxes.  His lawyer brother has explained all of that, and only formalities remain to clear everything up.  Then Dunn meets his brother's investigator who just got out after three years in a Florida jail for assault on her ex boyfriend, who had conned her out of her savings.  (Her story is that she just ran into him on Collins Avenue-in a Buick Rivera; and besides, she had the right of way.)  Dunn's home visit becomes very involved, with guest appearances by the ex boyfriend, Dunn's former tobacco business associate who turned him in, principals and &quot;soldiers&quot; of the Detroit mob, and various other strange and interesting characters.  How does his home rest and fund raising for the orphans of Rwanda turn out?  You will have to read the book and find out.	2000-10-07
US	51147050	R174GOEPODHJEL	0060183772	640615804	A God in Ruins	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A Different Type of Story for Leon Uris	Leon Uris published his first novel, Battle Cry, a World War II story of a Marine battalion, in 1953.  In the nearly fifty years since he has written eleven more.  The latest is A God in Ruins.  While most Uris novels have been well received, the most popular by far is Exodus, which was published in 1958 and was at that time the best-selling American novel since Gone With the Wind.  Uris' novels typically relate to personal experience.  He was a marine in World War II, as was his first wife.  Parts of The Angry Hills related experiences of Uris' uncle as a volunteer in a Jewish Brigade in the British Army fighting Nazis in Greece.  The Jewish experience in Europe and Israeli independence have been part of many of Uris' novels.  An Irish theme developed in Uris' novels after he lived in Ireland.  Perhaps the Irish independence movement struck a chord after his immersion in Israeli independence.  Trinity and Redemption followed in 1976 and 1995.  A God in Ruins is a departure for Uris.  There are still marine, Jewish and Irish connections, but this story is about an American presidential race (in 2008).  The opponents are poles apart.  Both are from working-class families.  One is a technology geek who grew up in the family-owned junkyard playing with radios and the like.  He ends up an the inventor of a computer system that makes him wealthy and eventually the incumbent President.  The other is the son of a Irish-American marine veteran, ex-Brooklyn cop.  The ex-cop could not settle back in Brooklyn after the war and moved with his bride to Colorado where he buys the ranch that had been the home of his best friend who died on Saipan.  Unable to have children, they adopt a son through a Roman Catholic agency.  This son becomes the governor of Colorado, and the candidate to unseat the incumbent President.  This novel begins on the eve of the general election, as Quinn Patrick Patrick O'Connell learns who his birth parents are, and is trying to prepare a statement for the media to inform them that if elected he would not only be the second Roman Catholic President, he would also be the first Jewish one.  As he tries to prepare his statement, he flashes back over his life, his accomplishments, and his loves.  Mixed with his flashbacks Uris gives us a similar treatment of the life of President Thorton Tomtree.  As the novel unfolds, leading up to the election, we see two somewhat similar young men grow into very different adults.  There is something of the tension between industry-technology and liberal-environmental in the contest between the two principals, but neither is a stereotype.  Overall, A God in Ruins is an interesting, well-told story.  Nothing great, but entertaining.  The title, by the way, is from an Emerson quote: &quot;Man is a god in ruins...&quot;	2000-09-27
US	51147050	R1ED3RRJJKKJSG	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	0	1	N	N	And the Saga Continues	When Tom Clancy ended Debt of Honor (1994) with Jack Ryan as President of the United States, this reader thought that Clancy would have to move on to another character.  After all, what more could Ryan do?  He had progressed from a history professor at Annapolis to junior analyst at the CIA to National Security Advisor to Vice-President, and now held the top office in the land.  Well, Clancy did have another adventure for Ryan.  In Executive Orders (1996) Clancy found a plot for continuing the Ryan saga, with Jack reconstituting the government, successfully countering a ploy by a corrupt politician to take the presidency away from him, and foiling a Chinese-backed attempt by Iran to destroy the United States through germ warfare. (The Chinese were also silent partners in Japan's plot in Debt of Honor.)  In The Bear and The Dragon, Clancy has once again found a plot for President Ryan.  This time the Chinese Politburo moves directly to gain control of eastern Siberia, its resources and its space for the burgeoning Chinese population.  Russia has found gold deposits larger than those of South Africa and petroleum deposits larger than in the Persian Gulf.  With these resources, a well-managed Russia will have the capital, in hard currency, to modernize its economy and solve its internal problems.  Chinese leaders do not want a sound Russia on its borders, and do want the capital to consolidate their own positions and solidify their military strength so they may rebuff foreign influence-especially economic.  Jack and the United States survive and conquer, of course, but the tale is told with Clancy's inimitable, suspense-filled style.  A reader's observation on Clancy's style is that while he still uses long discourses, and lots of technical description, the discourses are less detailed technology and more personal reflection.  He seems to have matured into more concern for individual motivation and political philosophy.  Clancy has Ryan acting in a politically conservative fashion, making decisions based on logic and consideration of popular welfare more than political position.  Wouldn't we all like to see that in Washington?  The problem is agreeing on the definition and the methods of achieving popular welfare.	2000-09-27
US	51147050	R33C1SW1TFV4LT	0684853299	111767343	Morgan's Run	Books	4	10	13	N	N	An Australian Fable of Job	Colleen McCullough is Australian, and established herself as a writer with The Thorn Birds, a novel of Australia.  In the last few years she has been writing stories of ancient Rome, but in Morgan's Run returns to her native Australia.  This novel is about the initial colonization of Australia with the Botany Bay penal colony and its offshoot on Norfolk Island, a thousand miles away.  The story begins in Bristol, England, as the American Revolution is starting.  Richard Morgan is middle class, unassuming, and devoted to his wife and son-unusually so for the time.  Prospering until after the American war is lost, Morgan Job-like loses his fortune and family, and runs afoul of aristocratic shenanigans, ending  up a convicted felon sentenced to be transported.  But with the American colonies gone, England has no place to send her gaol-filling convicts.  Barely discovered, much less explored, Australia is picked as the ideal dumping ground.  After all, it is two oceans away, and the problem will definitely be out of sight.  And by sending only convicts and their keepers, there is not likely to be another of those pesky revolutions.  McCullogh captures the soul of long-suffering, long-enduring Richard Morgan as he copes with horrific prison conditions, convict labor, a transport ship little better than a slaver (which it was before being contracted as a convict transport), and a totally disorganized and corrupt expedition.  A reader cannot but help to understand why the newly independent Americans insisted on the Bill of Rights as part of its written Constitution.  Inept bureaucrats  and corruption have been harder to overcome.  This is not an action-adventure.  It is a well-told tale of a man with deep inner strength, a man who perseveres through adversity.  A Job.  In her afterword, McCullough promises more about Richard Morgan and his family.  Perhaps we will not have to wait too long.	2000-09-27
US	51147050	R21AMS0XL81Y8Q	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Please, Sir, May I Have Some More?	The Harry Potter stories have taken the world by storm.  There are four of them now.  Written for pre- and early teen readers, Harry's adventures still have appeal for older readers, with the same magic the classic children's tales such as Wind in the Willows, Peter Pan, and the Pooh stories.  Harry was introduced in &quot;Sorcerer's Stone,&quot; along with his cohorts, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger and the rest of the faculty, staff, and students of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizzardry.  Harry is an orphan, living with his aunt, uncle, and cousin in an environment that makes Cinderella's look good.  Harry's mother and  father were both magicians.  A bad magician, Voldemort, one on the &quot;dark side,&quot; killed Harry's parents.  Sent to live with his aunt and uncle (and brat of a cousin), Harry doesn't know about the magic world.  However, Harry is a hero in the magic world; and when he reaches eleven, he is admitted to the Hogwarts School.  Thus begin the adventures.  Each of the four books thus far covers one school year.  The plan must be for at least seven books, because Hogwarts has a seven year curriculum.  Each year so far Harry and his friends have foiled an evil scheme to bring back the bad magician. Each year the schemes have become more complex, and the story told better.  The books have also gotten longer.  After the fourth book, in spite of Harry's heroism, the evil one, Voldemort, has returned and is ready to begin again to conquer first the magic world, and then the mundane &quot;Muggle&quot; world.  There have been some complaints about the books, because they have witches and magic.  But as a character in another story said, &quot;Magic, alchemy, science-what's the difference?&quot;  There are forces fighting for good against forces fighting for evil.  Isn't that what Milton and Dante, and even Jeremiah, wrote about?  In the Harry Potter stories, there is no confusion about who are the good guys and who are the bad guys.  So the good guys play hockey riding on broomsticks, so what?  It is fun and it is entertaining.  I am certainly looking forward to Harry's next adventure.od guys play hockey riding on broomsticks, so what?  It is fun and it is entertaining.  I am certainly looking forward to Harry's next adventure.	2000-09-27
US	51147050	RT62UEVK8RTAV	0312253397	204354638	Hong Kong: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Dragon Belches	Stephen Coonts' latest Jake Grafton story is another good one, but different from the norm.  In this story, set in the People's Republic of China's newest Special Administrative Region, Hong Kong, Jake does not operate as part of the Naval Establishment.  His adventure is solo, or nearly so.  In 1997, of course, the British turned the Crown Colony of Hong Kong over to the mainland Chinese.  The PRC pledged that Hong Kong would be able to continue upon its capitalistic ways as a Special Administrative Region , just with a little supervision.  It is to this environment that Admiral Jake Grafton comes now, officially on vacation but actually on a secret mission for the National Security Council.  The US consul-general in Hong Kong is Virgil Cole, who was Jake's weapons systems officer flying A-6 Intruders in Viet Nam.  Virgil was badly injured when he and Jake were shot down.  After his recuperation Virgil left the Navy and became a high-tech billionaire.  He supported the right politicians and was appointed to the Hong Kong consulate.  Now there is some suspicion that he may be involved in channeling illegal contributions from the PRC bureaucracy to US politicians.  Since Jake and he are old shipmates, Jake is sent to investigate.  Jake's wife, Callie, is invited to participate in a program for Chinese students.  With this cover, Jake starts out on what is officially a vacation, but which quickly, as a reader familiar with Coonts' work might expect, goes awry.  Jake does what Jake always does, of course.  He charges straight into the hornets' nest and makes things come out all right.  This is not Coonts' finest, but it is a good, solid story.  The technology gets to be a little far out, but mostly it is still believable.  It is interesting that both Coonts and Clancy have their latest stories directed to and resolving difficulties with China.  I wonder what people in the Chinese bureaucracy think about that.	2000-09-27
US	51147050	R3JL5NF06ZOGYL	0688156134	538868251	Stalker: A Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus Novel (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	And A New Generation Is Heard From	Faye Kellerman has written several very good stories about LA police  detective Peter Decker and his wife Rina Lazerus.  These suspenseful  mysteries blend the usual cop story with the personal and family life of  these very complex people.  In her latest, Stalker, Kellerman brings along  a new generation.  Decker's daughter, Cynthia, is the primary protagonist.  Cynthia Decker is a first-year rookie, working on patrol.  She is smart,  Ivy-educated, and full of herself.  She also has something of an  &quot;aura&quot; as the daughter of the famous detective.  In other words,  she does not fit in very well.  Add her brash self-confidence and the fact  that she is a woman in a traditionally male, blue collar, role, and there  are bound to be sparks.  But wait a minute.  Is this hazing that might be  expected from macho, chauvinistic co-workers?  Or is it something a little  more sinister?  One of her father's assistants comes to interview  one of the detectives in her precinct , and then gives Cynthia a ride home  when she cannot drive.  Now it appears to her co-workers that she is  involved in her father's investigation into a rash of car-jackings.  Then a  connection to a couple of unsolved high profile cases turns up.  Strange  things begin to happen to Cynthia-a displaced family photograph; her  sweaters seem to be rearranged; was that a shadow or someone lurking  outside her window?  Kellerman maintains the suspense, and readers may  find themselves turning pages rapidly while alternatively murmuring  &quot;Go get them, Cynthia&quot; and &quot;Stupid, call for help.&quot;  New readers will enjoy the thriller and become acquainted with this  interesting and unusual family.  Established fans will also enjoy learning  more about the family of characters in this continuing story.	2000-09-14
US	51147050	R23MCP944Z0KX6	0316558400	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium : An Englishman's World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Thousand Years in a Twelve-Month Review	The subtitle for this interesting little book is &quot;What Life Was Like  at the Turn of the First Millenium - An Englishman's World.&quot;  It uses  an ancient text, extant in the year 1000 as its base.  The Julius Work  Calendar, according to the authors, was handwritten with home-made ink on  parchment around the year 1020, probably by a cleric in the manuscript  studio of Canterbury Cathedral.  The calendar lists twelve months on twelve  pages, with each page headed by the name of the month and the appropriate  astrological sign.  Down the page are listed the high and holy days to be  celebrated during the month.  At the bottom is a drawing of the primary  work to be done that month-plowing, shepherding, reaping, etc.  Lacy  and Danziger take us through the year 1000 following the monthly tasks and  special days of the calendar.  As they point out, we generally think of  English history beginning with the Norman conquest of 1066, but Anglo-Saxon  England was a thriving community before that-else why did the Normans want  to take it?  Did you know that the typical Englishman of the year 1000  was about the same size we are?  It was not until urbanization and  overcrowding that poor food and sanitation caused smaller stature.  Women  owned property.  There was literature, although little written.  The  country had only recently been unified, merging the Angles, Saxons, Danes  and other Vikings with the earlier Celts.  England in 1000 was perhaps the  most prosperous and civilized area of northern Europe.  Taxes were simple.  Newly minted coins were valid for only two or three years, then they must  be returned to the local mint where they were melted down and recast.  But  only eight or nine coins were returned for each ten turned in.  Through the twelve months of The Year 1000, Lacey and Danziger give us a  fascinating picture of life in the mother country as it was 1,000 years  ago.  This is not a complicated book.  It is easy to read in snatches, and  it is filled with interesting and sometimes amazing tid-bits.	2000-09-14
US	51147050	R1YY70OJ1SHW7J	0312861834	897807345	Starswarm: A Jupiter Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Like Teacher Like Student	In his introduction to Starswarm Jerry Pournelle pays tribute to Robert  Heinlein, as an inspiration when Pournelle was an adolescent reader and  science student; and later as a mentor and friend.  I will pay tribute to  Pournelle: Starwarm could have been a Heinlein book.  All of the elements  of vintage Heinlein are there: the young protagonist who is different from  his peers, the science that is out-of-reach for now, but conceivable for  tomorrow.  I have always enjoyed Pournelle as a writer in his own right.  After reading this introduction, as I read Starwarm I remembered Citizen of  the Galaxy and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.  I have missed science-based  science fiction a la Robert Heinlein and enjoyed finding it again in  Starswarm.	2000-09-14
US	51147050	R35EFOIQH0NDGW	0312261837	552272371	The Jekyl Island Club	Books	3	18	20	N	N	History Comes to Life	Many Georgians and many tourists enjoy the recreation and relaxation of  Jekyll Island, one of the jewels of Georgia's &quot;Golden Isles.&quot;  One of the attractions for visitors to the Island is staying at, or  visiting, the restored hotel, The Jekyll Island Club, and touring the  &quot;cottages&quot; built by the millionaires who originally developed the  island more than one hundred years ago.  In The Jekyl Island Club, Brent  Monahan takes us back to the time when J. P. Morgan, Joseph Pulitzer, and  other tycoons and robber barons vacationed in splendor, and ran their  little island as part of their fiefdoms.  When one of the guests on the  island is found dead from a gunshot, however, they have to acknowledge the  local authority, at least enough to have the Brunswick sheriff make  official their idea of what happened.  Enter John Le Brun, high  sheriff of Brunswick and a person with good reason to hold a grudge against  the captains of industry who occupy what was formerly his home.  Le Brun  has his own problems, including a brand new chief deputy who recently  returned home is disgrace from Philadelphia and is the son of the local  judge.  The judge is not a fan of the sheriff's, and is totally in the  pocket of the Jekyl Island Club membership.  In launching his investigation  Le Brun must face the disdain, if not enmity, of club members and some of  their staff; concerns about the loyalty of his own deputy; his own  feelings; and his sense of justice.  The pressure is on, in part because  President McKinley is soon to visit the Island, traveling over from  Thomasville where he is vacationing at the vacation home of his advisor,  Ohio Senator Hanna, to meet with the some of the millionaires and House  Speaker Reed, a guest of Morgan's.  President McKinley's visit actually  happened, and Monahan uses that historical fact and the residual glamor of  the Jekyl Island Club, to fashion a neat little mystery.  In an afterword  Monahan also notes that before and after the millionaires' ownership,  Jekyll was spelled with two &quot;l's.&quot;  While it was their private  preserve, there was only one.  While this book is not a  great mystery,  it is a solid one.  The greatest charm, however, is in its bringing to life  the era of conspicuous opulence and filling out the pictures today's  visitors to Jekyll Island have in their imaginations.d after the millionaires' ownership,  Jekyll was spelled with two &quot;l's.&quot;  While it was their private  preserve, there was only one.  While this book is not a  great mystery,  it is a solid one.  The greatest charm, however, is in its bringing to life  the era of conspicuous opulence and filling out the pictures today's  visitors to Jekyll Island have in their imaginations.	2000-08-06
US	51147050	R31INGV7OPK8N6	0345427505	221309303	Gone for Soldiers: A Novel of the Mexican War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Apprenticeship for Generals	Michael Shaara's The Killer Angels won the Pulitzer Prize and became the television movie Gettysburg.  The book gave a detailed recounting of the  battle itself, but more than that it got into the heads, and souls, of some  of the real people who took part.  After his father died, Jeff Shaara  continued in his father's style, writing Gods and Generals, leading up to  the Battle of Gettysburg, and The Last Full Measure, continuing the story,  and the characters, until the end of the Civil War.  The  American Civil War was a major event in United States history.  It settled  the issue of &quot;states' rights&quot; and the balance of power between  the several states and the central government.  It settled the issue of  slavery, and as an outgrowth of that established a firm basis for due  process and civil rights of both individuals and enterprise.  This made  possible the economic development and capital structure which has made the  United States the predominant economic engine of the entire glove.  Because  the Civil War was so important, and because we were both winners and  losers, it tends to dominate consideration of the entire period from the  War of 1812, when American independence was confirmed, and World War One,  when America moved into the world arena.  However, there were two other  &quot;little&quot; wars in that period which were very important.  The  Mexican War  settled the southern national boundary and moved the western  boundary from one shining sea to the other.  The Spanish-American War  substantially removed European interests from the Americas and gave the  United States as least quasi-colonial interests in other parts of the  world.  In Gone For Soldiers Jeff Shaara takes us back to the period  1846 to 1848, especially from March, 1847 until the end of the war.  In the  early part of the war General Zachary Taylor stabilized the Rio Grand  front, but was unable to advance and bring the war to a conclusion.  General Winfield Scott took a smallarmy by ship to Vera Cruz, landed his  entire army on a hostile shore, and proceeded to win one battle after  another against the &quot;Napoleon of the West&quot; Antonio Lopez de Santa  Anna.  Finally, Santa Anna was defeated at the gates of Mexico City (the  Halls of Montezuma of the Marine Hymn) and  ousted by the government and a  peace treaty is concluded-one that gave the United States what is now the  southern part of Texas, California, and everything in between.  As  in his previous books, Shaara is excellent both in his descriptions of the  action and in his depictions of the participants and their emotions.  All  Civil War buffs know that Lee, Grant, Joe Johnston, Beauregard, Longstreet,  Jackson, Pickett, and others fought in the Mexican War, that this was  where, as junior officers they &quot;learned the trade&quot; thay practiced  with such skill with and against each other as senior officers a few years  later.  Shaara shows us some of the potential for comradeship and even  friendship which existed among them.  He also presents an explanation for  Lee's rapid advancement.  A 40-year old captain of engineers on Scott's  staff, Lee (in the story at least) demonstrates his instinct for terrain,  strategy, and tactics that his previous career on staff and as a builder of  forts had not shown.  The relationship between Lee and Winfield Scott which  develops in this story provides one explanation for Scott choosing Lee to  put down the John Brown insurgence and offering Lee the top field command  in the Union army, which Lee declined in order to place his loyalty with  seceding Virginia.  This is an excellent book and well worth the time  for both Civil War buffs and for readers who enjoy interesting  relationships among historical figures.	2000-08-06
