US	51145468	R36YBNYHMO35ER	076792066X	457307841	The Universe in a Single Atom: The Convergence of Science and Spirituality	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Compassion and Modern Science	I recently read the Dalai Lama's new book `The Universe in a Single Atom\\". In the book the Dalai Lama relates Buddhist philosophy and science to western metaphysics and science. It is a broad attempt to reconcile modern science with spirituality (especially Buddhist).<br /><br />In the middle of the book the Dalai Lama relates a question that he asked at one of his biannual conferences on science. He saw that the metaphysics behind western science was reductionism . Higher level systems are described in terms of lower level principles. Systems are describes in terms of laws that relate lower level concepts. So chemistry is explained as a consequence of underlying atomic and molecular physics. The Dalai Lama asked the question if higher level systems could ever affect the lower level principles by which they are constituted. The assembled scientists answered that there could be no such interaction and the Dalai Lama wrote that he did not pursue the question.<br /><br />In his discussion in the book I could see why this question came to the Dalai Lama. In fact, I can see it as a primary reason why he pursues his interest in science. The Dalai Lama indicated that compassion was the one the great truths about the universe. If the universe is at its basis controlled by the cold inanimate laws of quantum physics, then what is the place of compassion? How can it be a truth of the universe if it is found no where as a fundamental principle?<br /><br />The answer that I see for this question is a rejection of reductionism at least as I understand the term. There are certain basic principles that do not manifest themselves until a sufficient level of system complexity is reached. So the principles behind evolution (notable the `selection of the fittest' and the `inheritance of acquired traits'), are basic but cannot be found in physics. `Selection of the fittest' requires at least a biological systems and the `inheritance of acquired traits' requires a social system.<br /><br />Inherent in the ideas of evolution is the principle of competition. Species (or genes) compete to survive. However competition quickly breeds cooperation. With cooperation, individuals can specialize and as a group derive advantages that cannot be achieved by a single individual alone. Cooperation taken into a social setting extends into altruism, empathy and compassion. These are not mere surface phenomena. These are basic principles that provide for advantages in evolution. It is no coincidence that the only species known to have a perception of its place in the universe regards compassion as one of the truths defining that place.<br /><br />With the level of system complexity needed for evolution to be operative comes the possibility of the Baldwin effect . This is an evolutionary principle that an evolutionary advantage of a characteristic can affect the evolution of that characteristic. So take the example of cooperation. Acting at a group level, cooperative individuals will have an advantage. They will have a selection advantage in reproduction. Thus individuals without the genetic capacity will disappear and the population will become more and more cooperative. So a principle operating at the social level can have effects at the biological level. The success of a cooperative social group will create cooperative individuals. A higher level principle will change the underlying system of which it is constituted. In the same way compassion being at higher level than cooperation reinforce the effect.<br /><br />So this is an answer to the Dalai Lama's question. Higher level principles can have an effect on the operation of lower level principles. All that is needed is a system of appropriate complexity. So compassion is a basic principle of the universe. It is a basic principle that shapes the universe in its own image.r /> <br />Inherent in the ideas of evolution is the principle of competition. Species (or genes) compete to survive. However competition quickly breeds cooperation. With cooperation, individuals can specialize and as a group derive advantages that cannot be achieved by a single individual alone. Cooperation taken into a social setting extends into altruism, empathy and compassion. These are not mere surface phenomena. These are basic principles that provide for advantages in evolution. It is no coincidence that the only species known to have a perception of its place in the universe regards compassion as one of the truths defining that place. <br /> <br />With the level of system complexity needed for evolution to be operative comes the possibility of the Baldwin effect . This is an evolutionary principle that an evolutionary advantage of a characteristic can affect the evolution of that characteristic. So take the example of cooperation. Acting at a group level, cooperative individuals will have an advantage. They will have a selection advantage in reproduction. Thus individuals without the genetic capacity will disappear and the population will become more and more cooperative. So a principle operating at the social level can have effects at the biological level. The success of a cooperative social group will create cooperative individuals. A higher level principle will change the underlying system of which it is constituted. In the same way compassion being at higher level than cooperation reinforce the effect. <br /> <br />So this is an answer to the Dalai Lama's question. Higher level principles can have an effect on the operation of lower level principles. All that is needed is a system of appropriate complexity. So compassion is a basic principle of the universe. It is a basic principle that shapes the universe in its own image. <br />	2005-10-08
US	51145468	R2SCK57R7H4Q6R	086304025X	430352893	The Manipulated Mind: Brainwashing, Conditioning and Indoctrination	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Man as a species is creative because `no man is an island'	This book is concerned with brainwashing. However instead of concentrating on the specifics of the techniques used, it presents and analyzes why brainwashing and other forms of conversion are possible. The book extensively quotes from Sargent's seminal studies reported in \\"Battle for the Mind\\". Sargent showed how brainwashing and conversion can be traced to a physiological strategy used by the brain to cope with stress. Sargent's insights into this are conclusive but he does to address the question of why this strategy was chosen by evolution and to what purposes it is used. Winn presents results from psychology to show the reasons why as she quotes ' man is a rationalizing animal.' Winn shows how man as a social animal is tuned to adapt to the reality as others find it. Man, as opposed to other animals, has the potential to learn from others and so gives great significance to the knowledge that he finds implicit in the behaviors of others.<br /><br />Winn's book is a distillation of the research of others. She presents Sargent's ideas but deepens them by putting them in a broader psychological and social perspective.  She does not explicitly state this but her book presents the reasons why the capacity for conversion or brainwashing is evolutionarily advantageous. It is a trait that provides us with capacity to create society. Man as a species is creative because `no man is an island'.<br /><br />This is an excellent book that is well worth reading.	2005-07-03
US	51145468	RI6GNXVZM3WFV	1883536065	430285700	Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversion and Brainwashing - How Evangelists, Psychiatrists, Politicians, and Medicine Men Can Change Your Beliefs and Behavior	Books	5	42	47	N	N	Conversion - religious and political	This is an important book for what it reveals about the nature of interrogation. Interrogation, as it is practiced' is not about finding the truth but about creating a set of new beliefs in the prisoner. As the author, Sargent, points out this may be entirely unintentional on the part of the questioner. However the techniques they use to overcome their subject's resistance act to put him/her in a state of heightened suggestibility. The examiner by his/her questions supplies to the subject the substance of new beliefs. The stress that they put the subject under cause distinct and predictable physiological effects that result in the subject losing his/her previous sets of beliefs.<br /><br />Sargent illustrates this by reference to techniques used in religious conversions and Soviet and Chinese brain washing and re-education. Sargent shows that the same techniques of overwhelming the subject with stress and then offering a way out have been sued for thousands of years in this regard. He describes Soviet era questioning, the evangelism of John Wesley, Chinese re-education camps and shows that they all have the same effect of converting the subject to a new way of belief that is desired by the examiner. The subjects of Soviet show trials did not confess because they feared more pain. They confessed because they genuinely believed in Th charges against them<br /><br />This puts the current discussion of torture and Guantanomo in perspective. The techniques from there that have been described in the press are not designed to elicit information under the fear of pain. They are designed to convert the prisoners to a new set of beliefs that are compatible with American interests. As Sargent shows, since the fact that the prisoners are people with strong beliefs means that they will, after conversion, hold beliefs of equal strength in the new cause. They will cooperate with the American cause because they will then believe in it with all of their hearts.	2005-06-13
US	51145468	R3PL5PFVWEP5WQ	0142003344	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	3	20	34	N	N	Strawmen as Fish in Barrels	I have enjoyed other books by Pinker and was expecting to enjoy this one as well. However it did not take me very long to tire of this tedious book.  Pinker does not hide his opinions. Indeed he is most certain of them and expounds them tediously in page after page of description.  With that, I found myself quickly  growing tired of him building up strawmen only so that he can knock them down. I am not a scholar but even I could tell that his descriptions of opposing philosophical theories are shallow and designed to prove his point.<br />Mr. Pinker obviously has deep convictions about human nature. This book reminds me of being forced as a student to listen to a professor profess his pet theories before a captive audience. I found no great exploration of ideas here but just a declaration of Pinker's beliefs. I kept thinking of strawmen and fish in barrels while I read this.	2003-12-20
US	51145468	R3JMFTCPXWRTK6	0140139397	899677703	The Big Rock Candy Mountain (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The Universal in the West	`Big Rock Candy Mountain' is the story of ambition and security, of restlessness and comfort, of expansion and insularity. In Bo Mason, the book presents te expansive here who cannot be tied down. It presents the restless dreamer whose only motive is to find the pace that is better. It presented him as the daring rogue that men envy and women find irresistible. It also presents him as the husband of Elsa and the father of Chester and Bruce. It presents him as the husband who deeply loves his wife and sons but whose instinctive drives forces him to hurt them deeply. The book presents Elsa, Bo's wife, whose dream is the security of a loving family but who is ineluctably attracted to the daring bo who can free her from a life of restriction and drudgery.<br />In short this is a book about the conflict within the human soul that pits the need for independence and adventure against the desire for security and safety. It is set in the Canadian and American west at the time of the westward expansion. It is a book about real people that delve deeply into the generic human condition. Its characters are real and finely detailed yet it is more than just an account of a particular family in a particular time. It explores grand themes an yet it true to the motivations of its characters. It is a book that finds the universal in the particular and the instant in eternity. It is a book that will be remembered.	2002-09-15
US	51145468	R3OP8090JOM9I1	0886292573	614957398	Lament for a Nation: The Defeat of Canadian Nationalism (Carleton Library Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Definitive Essay thet Presaged theGlobalization Debate	In the light of September 11th, many Americans are asking the rhetorical question 'Why do they hate us so?' This essay from 1965 brilliantly outlines the forces, in modern liberalism, that are antagonistic to local culture. The lament that it describes is a lament for a local nationalism that has been abandoned by its population in favor for the attractions of a global culture based on American values. These American values are the values of the modern culture, in which traditional values which provide meaning to life are abandoned for the ease which modern technology can bring. Traditional values which provided meaning but also constraints to human life and action are being abandoned according the this book view for a shallow notion of human freedom. This shallow freedom is the freedom to enjoy temporary conveniences at the expense of the ability to live life in compatibility with eternal principles.  What meaning that modern life can provide are rationalizations of self-indulgence which will be adjusted to fit the needs of technology as it evolves in its self-defined way.<br />The book describes how Canadians have abandoned their traditional 'conservative' values in favor of the easy continentalist option of acquiring American wealth by accepting American values. The author describes how 1960s Gaullism in France was a reaction to the same forces. The same observations can be made today about the knee-jerk anti-Americanism in Europe and France in particular that is paradoxically based on the inherent attractiveness of American values. The American culture is becoming the world culture. It is dispossessing all other cultures that it encounters. This provokes a reaction among 'conservative' (which includes the globalization protestors who in this book's terms are conservative in respect to culture although they would see themselves as anarchistic, radical etc.) who fear that the cultures that they value are going to be lost to the forces of technic- `the one best way'.<br />I cannot do justice to this book which links these ideas into the flow of Western ideas. It shows the conflicts that of these differing sets f ideas in the works of philosophers and theologians. it does so in a manner that is very accessible to the general reader but has also provided a basis for research by professional philosopher's, political scientists etc. for the 37years since it was published.<br />This book is on a par with Jacques Ellul's 'The Technological Society.' It is a book that will be remembered and studied for hundreds of years. It uses as its starting point the issue of Canadian nationalism but its implications are universal. I wish that I could give it six stars.'.<br />I cannot do justice to this book which links these ideas into the flow of Western ideas. It shows the conflicts that of these differing sets f ideas in the works of philosophers and theologians. it does so in a manner that is very accessible to the general reader but has also provided a basis for research by professional philosopher's, political scientists etc. for the 37years since it was published.<br />This book is on a par with Jacques Ellul's 'The Technological Society.' It is a book that will be remembered and studied for hundreds of years. It uses as its starting point the issue of Canadian nationalism but its implications are universal. I wish that I could give it six stars.	2002-08-27
US	51145468	R2GIZEXPBTVAJ6	0316180661	358661477	Consciousness Explained	Books	1	222	281	N	N	Lots of Words to Explain Very Few Ideas	This book contains a great many words. Unfortunately, it contains only a very few ideas. This book could very well be contained in a 15 page white paper. Indeed it has. The same ideas have been published in the paper 'Time and the Observer - The Where and When of Consciousness in the Brain' by the author (Dennett) and Kinsbourne. Even in that case the 15 page paper is contained in a 33 page text. To use the clich&eacute;, Dennett will not use a paragraph when several chapters will suffice<br />I would advise anyone who wishes to understand the ideas contained in this book to read the paper. You will not have to waste your time in plowing through hundreds of pages of superfluous explanation. The paper is anthologized in 'The Nature of Consciousness: Philosophical Debates' that was edited by Block, Flanagan and Gazeldere, which is also available from Amazon. You will get the same ideas as contained in this book plus many many more.<br />Another strategy would be to read one of Gerald Edelman's books which contains many fewer words in much better expositions of a great many more ideas that are much more trenchant and insightful.	2002-08-18
US	51145468	R2P47K6C8B8AP9	0345446860	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	No matter where you go, there you are	Rebecca Davitch woke up in her life at 53 and wondered who she was. Why had her life turned out as it had? She had not planned to live her life the way she was living it. Did she really belong somewhere else in another life in another family.<br />This is a classic tale of a mid-life crisis. It is told very well and with real insight. Rebecca had not planned her life but she chose it. She chose it with countless decisions, each of which is masked in happenstance. Rebecca searches through her past to see why she had not chosen to say with her first love Will. She discovers to her surprise that she left Will and the life he offered by choice and not by accident. Will offered her a life full of constraint surrounded by petty fears. She unwittingly but purposefully chose another life that was open to novelty and chance. Rebecca in the end sees that she is in reality in control of her life and has chosen to live it by creating a wild divergent family.  She has chosen chance over safety and certainty.<br />In her midlife crisis she attempted to find herself only to discover that she never had been lost.<br />Ths is an excellent study in character by a writer who has mastered the art of characterization.	2002-07-26
US	51145468	R3SPERH03VR8GB	0521337399	850184719	Plans and Situated Actions: The Problem of Human-Machine Communication (Learning in Doing: Social, Cognitive and Computational Perspectives)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Important Beyond Its Ostensible Field	This is an outstanding book. The insight that showed the power of the idea of `situated action' goes far beyond the realm of interactive design or even human computer interaction in its entirety. It is a fundamental  solution to the problem of facing complexity and contingency. Its implications are widespread. This book was published in the 1987 when during the last days of classical AI. This is one of the seminal books that showed the inadequacies of the classical formulation. Indeed it showed a new and much more way of achieving the goals that classical AI set for itself and failed. Despite its age the ides in this book are still fresh and important.<br />. Absolute certainty is impossible and the quest for it is costly and futile. Instead of  trying to overcome the uncertainty that is in the world, the system designer should embrace it and use it as a tool to solve the problems that it creates.<br />This is a book that should be read by anyone who has set the task for themselves of developing any system that must function in an uncertain environment. In short this is a book that should be read by anyone who is developing a system that will have to function within the real world	2002-07-11
US	51145468	R32TBHFVYW0W3S	0520085841	526903755	The Cult of Information: A Neo-Luddite Treatise on High-Tech, Artificial Intelligence, and the True Art of Thinking	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A Demonstration of Human Emotion	The Cult of Information is a heartfelt  but in the end unsatisfying book, The cause for this disappointment can be found in the book's subtitle which contains the phrase `And The True Art of Thinking'. Roszak is deeply concerned that the computer is commonly used as a model of the brain. He is concerned by the importance that some give to computer skills. He is concerned that the time taken to learn computer skills lessens the amount of time children have to learn how to live in a truly human environment. He is concerned that people will begin to think that they can only act in the strictly procedural way that computers act. He is concerned that the computer brain model will make people believe that they can only aspire to the rudimentary types of interactions that computers are capable of.<br />Roszak spends most of his book creating examples to illustrate his concerns. However the book would have been better is Roszak had a better idea of what human thinking  was really about. Instead of many many declarations that human thought is intuitive and impossible to explain, a review of the brain mechanisms that have been discovered to be behind thought, learning, emotion etc. would have been much better.<br />Roszak would have discovered that far being purely procedural devices, new models of computer activity are now in widespread use. These models were developed because the lack of capability that the procedural model exhibits was recognized by specialists in computer science and artificial intelligence. Indeed the same criticism that Roszak gives of computers not being capable of truly fitting itself for detailed interaction in a human environment was one of the reasons that these new models were developed. New `situated' models of computer behavior are designed from the beginning to fit themselves in to the world of humanity. They are designed as an attempt to do the routine things such as driving a car, mowing a lawn etc. that Roszak says that computers are incapable of. That these are very difficult tasks for a computer to do and that true success in this area has not yet been achieved does not deny the fact that the attempt is bing made.<br />Roszak seems to have a very narrow view on what human interaction is about. He does not attempt to describe it clearly. His understanding of Marshall Mcluhan is definitely lacking. He makes a statement about Marshall Mcluhan's views on  television that is clearly incorrect. His lack of understanding of human activities is shown by his confounding of activities that Mcluhan would have called `hot' and `cool'. For Roszak, learning is  a hot occupation. Learning is a matter of solitary thought whose goal is develop to a private understanding. Roszak never seems to describe a `cool' interaction that takes place publicly and whose goal is sharing and accomplishment.<br />Roszak's book is worth reading for the depth and sincerity of its concerns. It would have been better if the computer and modern forms of computer mediated interactions would have been describe doing, were more than a cartoon outline. As Mcluhan and many others have demonstrated the computer is part of a technological development that is changing the way people interact and so changes their view of themselves. Some of these changes are for the good and others are most definitely for the ill. Mcluhan and Innis, years before Roszak, recognized this and founded an insightful literature which explores this area. Roszak describes his book as a treatise. However it is more of an emotional cry in opposition to the ill effects that computers and computer mediated communication can have on humanity. Read it to understand the concerns that the neo-Luddites, as Roszak describes himself, have about technology. Read Mcluhan and others to understand these effects.le of. That these are very difficult tasks for a computer to do and that true success in this area has not yet been achieved does not deny the fact that the attempt is bing made.<br />Roszak seems to have a very narrow view on what human interaction is about. He does not attempt to describe it clearly. His understanding of Marshall Mcluhan is definitely lacking. He makes a statement about Marshall Mcluhan's views on  television that is clearly incorrect. His lack of understanding of human activities is shown by his confounding of activities that Mcluhan would have called `hot' and `cool'. For Roszak, learning is  a hot occupation. Learning is a matter of solitary thought whose goal is develop to a private understanding. Roszak never seems to describe a `cool' interaction that takes place publicly and whose goal is sharing and accomplishment. <br />Roszak's book is worth reading for the depth and sincerity of its concerns. It would have been better if the computer and modern forms of computer mediated interactions would have been describe doing, were more than a cartoon outline. As Mcluhan and many others have demonstrated the computer is part of a technological development that is changing the way people interact and so changes their view of themselves. Some of these changes are for the good and others are most definitely for the ill. Mcluhan and Innis, years before Roszak, recognized this and founded an insightful literature which explores this area. Roszak describes his book as a treatise. However it is more of an emotional cry in opposition to the ill effects that computers and computer mediated communication can have on humanity. Read it to understand the concerns that the neo-Luddites, as Roszak describes himself, have about technology. Read Mcluhan and others to understand these effects.	2002-06-30
US	51145468	R2XKQ1392VHZS9	0465084672	126627049	Thought Contagion	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Disappointing and Shallow	The book is very disappointing. I would not recommend it to anyone. Anyone with an ounce of imagination and a glass of beer could create the types of analysis presented here. Indeed it reads more like an undergraduate beer session discussion that an account of a field of scholarship. It is difficult even to review since there is no wholeness to the ideas as they are presented in the book.<br />The first chapter of `Thought Contagion' supplies some useful information about the modes by which memes of ideas may propagate through humanity. Unfortunately the author does not build upon this to provide a model of meme propagation. The rest of the book is a collection of `just-so' stories bout various ideas and how they can spread, work in synergy or conflict etc.  These accounts are not deep but are comprised of only shallow arm-waving analysis. The author continually hints at deeper ideas of meta-memes, synergistic assemblies of memes creating self-sustaining groups, antagonistic sets of memes resulting in oscillations in the numbers of adherents etc. Even in some of the `just-so' stories, the author refers to these ideas but never explicitly demonstrates them. The reader is left with chapter after chapter of what appears to be shallow conjecture.<br />The author implies that he has a mathematical model that confirms some of his analysis. I assume that he does but he never presents even a hint of it. The book would be much better if he had expressed some of his examples in a mathemaical strcture to show the commonality among his models that he continually hints at. The reader can easily see that most of the examples conform to a few simple patterns. If the author had shown these patterns and fitted examples ot them, he would have better explained his ideas.	2002-06-22
US	51145468	R3MGVPBI6296EN	0195129113	905390222	Beyond Engineering: How Society Shapes Technology (Sloan Technology)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Co-evolution and Learning - Society and Technology	`Beyond Engineering' is subtitled `How Engineering Shapes Society'. It is that but it is much more. It is a book about technology and society. It is part a descriptive history and sociology of technology and part a prescriptive analysis of how society can manage technology to its best purposes. It is broken into two main parts. The first describes the technological process and shows how technologies are selected for mass utilization. The second uses this analysis and discusses the issues that have now arisen with the ascendancy of technology and its central place in society.<br />In discussing the technological selection process, the author Robert Pool makes much of the power of incumbency. A new technology does not arise form nothing but is developed in a co-evolution between scientific progress and societal capabilities. It is developed by human beings who live in a particular point in history and thus have their values and practices shaped in a specific manner. Any technology that is developed will have to be compatible with the social and technical attitudes prevailing at that time. Pool shows in his discussion of the development of the Watt steam engine that the engine was developed taking into full account the attitudes of the people who would have to implement and manufacture it. Watt could scientifically demonstrate the need for tight tolerances to maximize efficiency but his engine was being developed in an era of craft workman who could not see the necessity of such tolerance. Watt was compelled to set up controlled manufacturing sites where he could build machines to the required tolerances. It would have been more efficient to manufacture the engines in place with local labour but that could not be done in the ethos of that time.<br />Mistakes once made in the development of technology will propagate themselves in the social and technical attitudes of the people involved in its continuing development. Pool shows how nuclear power developed within the technological attitudes of military propulsion and civilian power generation. Pool shows how attitudes in these domains shaped the technological choices and how these choices were not the best either technically or commercially.  Pool's analysis of the power of incumbency and the multi-armed bandit is excellent here.<br />The second part of the book talks of central place of technology in our society. Technology has moved far from the time of Watt. Now, technology is so complex that no one human being can be aware of all that factors that go into the development and operation of a major new invention. The implication of this is that no one can understand and predict the operation of a major invention in all circumstances. Technological risk cannot be obviated by the building of entirely predictable systems. Rather risk has become probabilistic with designs being created to hopefully prevent failures causing major loss of life or economic loss rare.<br />Society must decide if the risks inherent in a technology are acceptable given the benefits tha can be derived from it. Since no complex technology is predictable this acceptance must in some manner be built around a faith in our societies ability to cope with uncertainty. Since no technology can be proved safe in all circumstances, society must be shaped in such a way that it can rapidly cope with unexpected serious failures.<br />This analysis shows the basic disagreement between the neo-Luddites or technological pessimists and the technological optimists. Pool discusses the work of a Yale sociologist named Charles Perrow who argues that complex technologies cannot be so maintained. They are rife with un-understood emergent properties that render them unmanageable. They are so complex that they cannot be understood by any one person and therefore must be managed centrally and hierarchically by enforcing detailed operation procedures that are the result of long term research by multiple specialists. On the other hand they are prone to unexpected failures and so must be managed locally by workers who can respond to serious contingencies. According to Perrow this is a contradiction that shows that some technologies cannot be managed so as to prevent losses due to accidents. Perrow calls these `normal accidents'. This is a statement of technological pessimism and is one that calls foe the aggressive use of the `precautionary principle' in rejecting technologies that cannot be proved safe. Since this is true of most modern technologies it seems as if society must give up the benefits of modern technology in order to remain safe.<br />However there are many large complex technological systems that function safely. Pool uses the research of Berkeley political science professor Todd a Porte to show this. La Porte discovered may organizations that were managing large scale technologies in a very safe and efficient manner. The characteristic of these organizations is that they combine the properties that Perrow said wee incompatible. The combine a centralized hierarchical control of best practices with distributed local control able to cope with contingencies. La Porte shows how these function in the operation or the US air traffic control systems, military organizations such as aircraft carriers, large chemical manufacturing companies such as Dupont. These overlay a central concern with best practices with an educated workforce who are expected to montitor their own activities, communicate and learn.<br />This insight demonstrates the technological pessimism inherent in analyses like Perrow's can be overcome. Society can shape itself to be able to benefit from modern technology. Since this benefit will derive from the actions of an educated, self-initiating, learning middle class, technology can also indirectly create social good.<br />This is book well worth reading. One fault in the book is that Pool does not outline his argument anywhere. In no one pace does he give a clear summery of his ideas. An introduction and a final summary would have improved the book. Nevertheless this is a book this it found to be full of insight. It one that is well worth reading.they are prone to unexpected failures and so must be managed locally by workers who can respond to serious contingencies. According to Perrow this is a contradiction that shows that some technologies cannot be managed so as to prevent losses due to accidents. Perrow calls these `normal accidents'. This is a statement of technological pessimism and is one that calls foe the aggressive use of the `precautionary principle' in rejecting technologies that cannot be proved safe. Since this is true of most modern technologies it seems as if society must give up the benefits of modern technology in order to remain safe.<br />However there are many large complex technological systems that function safely. Pool uses the research of Berkeley political science professor Todd a Porte to show this. La Porte discovered may organizations that were managing large scale technologies in a very safe and efficient manner. The characteristic of these organizations is that they combine the properties that Perrow said wee incompatible. The combine a centralized hierarchical control of best practices with distributed local control able to cope with contingencies. La Porte shows how these function in the operation or the US air traffic control systems, military organizations such as aircraft carriers, large chemical manufacturing companies such as Dupont. These overlay a central concern with best practices with an educated workforce who are expected to montitor their own activities, communicate and learn. <br />This insight demonstrates the technological pessimism inherent in analyses like Perrow's can be overcome. Society can shape itself to be able to benefit from modern technology. Since this benefit will derive from the actions of an educated, self-initiating, learning middle class, technology can also indirectly create social good.<br />This is book well worth reading. One fault in the book is that Pool does not outline his argument anywhere. In no one pace does he give a clear summeryof his ideas. An introduction and a final summary would have improved the book. Nevertheless this is a book this it found to be full of insight. It one that is well worth reading.	2002-06-16
US	51145468	R2VAB2KQTDPKWX	0375714499	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	2	89	159	N	N	Shallow, Trite, Without Insight and Unimportant.	I began to read this book with some hesitation. I was aware of the reputation of Noam Chomsky as someone of erudition. I was afraid that I would not be capable of successfully following the subtle arguments of a world class intellectual. This hesitation was not justified.<br />Chomsky and Herman quote from Jacques Ellul's book Propaganda' in the preface to this book. They do so without apparent insight or irony. Ellul brilliantly analyzed the nature of propaganda in his book. He noted that the purveyor of propaganda necessarily became its victim. The reader of Manufacturing Consent' is subjected of  to hundreds of pages of shrill rhetoric masquerading as analysis. Non sequiturs follow non sequiturs to support unsubstantiated claims.<br /> There is truth in this book. However these are derivative and obvious truths. Every page of the book is filled with details designed to support the authors' thesis that the media reflects a societal viewpoint and that other viewpoints are discouraged. The surprising thing about the book is that the authors seem to think that this is some sort of novel idea. They spend hundreds of pages showing that the facts of some historical events could be interpreted differently within another viewpoint. The sad thing about this so-called analysis is that the authors present their own interpretation as the unvarnished truth as opposed to the self-serving propaganda that other viewpoints provide. The facts are myriad, the analysis is predictable and the conclusions are trite.<br />The authors seem not to sense the irony of quoting Ellul in a book that shows the truth of his insight that the purveyor of propaganda is one of its victims. If they had created a book that followed from Ellul's seminal insight and showed the danger that a society falls into when its core beliefs become propaganda, they could have created a significant book. However that book would not be Manufacturing Consent.'<br />Society to function must have a set of core beliefs to inspire its members to cooperate on grand social aims. Members of society must be prepared to sacrifice some of their own self-interest to facilitate grander societal aims. This can range from support for the arts to aid for the indigent and sick.  However as Ellul showed these core beliefs can acquire the status of emotion and become irrational. They acquire a status beyond their purpose and since they have become irrational they can be used to suppress any alternative view. Alternative views cannot be analyzed; they are a danger and so must be suppressed. Society becomes imprisoned in a straightjacket of beliefs and cannot adapt to new circumstances.<br />Ellul saw this. Ellul wrote a brilliant book on propaganda. The authors of this book wrote a book trying to show that their analysis of historical events is more accurate' than that of the mass media. This may or may not be so but it is largely unimportant. The important issue is not about the motivations of some dead politicians but how a society can protect itself from its own propaganda. Ellul tried to show this. Popper tried to show this. Herman and Chomsky prove the same shallow point over and over again. They are not wrong in their ideas and assertions. It is just that they are shallow, trite, without insight and unimportant.<br />If you want to know about propaganda read Ellul. He said it before Herman and Chomsky. He said more than Herman and Chomsky. And he said it with insight.beliefs to inspire its members to cooperate on grand social aims. Members of society must be prepared to sacrifice some of their own self-interest to facilitate grander societal aims. This can range from support for the arts to aid for the indigent and sick.  However as Ellul showed these core beliefs can acquire the status of emotion and become irrational. They acquire a status beyond their purpose and since they have become irrational they can be used to suppress any alternative view. Alternative views cannot be analyzed; they are a danger and so must be suppressed. Society becomes imprisoned in a straightjacket of beliefs and cannot adapt to new circumstances.<br />Ellul saw this. Ellul wrote a brilliant book on propaganda. The authors of this book wrote a book trying to show that their analysis of historical events is more accurate' than that of the mass media. This may or may not be so but it is largely unimportant. The important issue is not about the motivations of some dead politicians but how a society can protect itself from its own propaganda. Ellul tried to show this. Popper tried to show this. Herman and Chomsky prove the same shallow point over and over again. They are not wrong in their ideas and assertions. It is just that they are shallow, trite, without insight and unimportant.<br />If you want to know about propaganda read Ellul. He said it before Herman and Chomsky. He said more than Herman and Chomsky. And he said it with insight.	2002-02-09
US	51145468	RR5WX02NL1G62	0226902110	78968039	The Whale and the Reactor: A Search for Limits in an Age of High Technology	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Darkness of Technology	In this book, Langdon Winner presents a philosophical description of the position of those who oppose the paramount place technology has taken in society. Central to Winners argument is his observation that technology is inherently political. He presets two ways in which this is so. The first, which is rather unconvincing, is that a piece of technology can be used as a means of political coercion. He cites the fact that Robert Moses designed the overpasses on the parkways around New York City to be so low as to prevent buses from using them. This ensured that low-income people could not live in the communities adjacent to these parkways which was a political aim of Moses. Now Moses used technology in this case but since technology represents the means by which things are done in the world, this seems to have been inevitable.<br />Winner makes a much more convincing case for his second form of politics in technology. Any technology requires a compatible environment to work in to achieve maximum efficiency. People who benefit from a specific technology will through political means strive to change society to achieve this compatibility.  Specific technologies carry their own political imperatives.<br />Now in itself the co-evolution of society and technology is not necessarily harmful to human society. Modern technology requires and educated work force and hence drives a political imperative for an educated middleclass population. The needs of technology and a beneficial state of society are compatible in this case. However Winner does not see it this way. He sees technology as an independent force for change that will indifferently discard traditions and social structures that are incompatible with it. Reading his descriptions of society, one realizes that Winner appreciates what could be called the darkness of society in analogy to the darkness of god.<br />The darkness of god is the sense of ineffable mystery when one contemplates the power and intentions of god.  The magnificence of god is tied to the fact that he is infinitely good and beyond human comprehension. His ineffable mystery provides comfit to his believers. In the same way, Winner wants to find a sense of belonging in society. He objects to the technological view that society is a purely instrumental means of achieving some desirable end. For his society is the thing that gives meaning. Depriving it of this renders the individual helpless and alone.<br />Winner attempts to understand why others do not see society in this way. In particular he tries to understand why people are quite willing to adapt themselves and their society to the needs of technology. Winner sees that this acceptance of technological change has brought prosperity but cannot see how shallow economic prosperity is preferable to a stable meaning-giving society. Hence the Whale and the Reactor of his title.<br />What Winner seems to miss is that while technology has political imperatives, as he correctly observes, it is also subject to political imperatives. There is no monolithic thing called technology. Rather there are various technologies that all compete to fit into what would best be called a ecosystem of technological and societal arrangements. Successful technologies then must be aware and adapt to the needs of the larger ecosystem of society.  Societal and technological arrangements co-evolve and a successful arrangement must be sensitive to larger needs outside of itself.<br />This co-evolution is best done in a open educated affluent society that is tolerant of change and divergent views. Technology rather than being a straightjacket requiring conformity from members of society is a slave to societys needs. It will be By fostering an open educated society it creates the conditions that foster the dignity of the individual.  The very political imperatives that control technological development are the reasons why people are willing to adapt to technology. They adapt inan open educated way that provides frees them from obsolete constraints while emphasizing long held beliefs of individual dignity and freedom.<br />The movies Modern Times and Metropolis show technology in the way it is viewed by Winner. Technology is shown as an over-powering force that indifferently shapes mankind to its needs. However the dystopias presented in these movies and seen by Winner has not come about. Society has become more open. Society has become freer with the political changes driven by technology.<br />Winner decries the lack of meaning and tradition he sees around him. To him meaning comes from society and change eliminates meaning. For others, meaning comes from an eternal process of which change is a part. Meaning is not fixed but a continual striving for understanding. Technology is accepted because it is part of that process. Technology is then part of an ineffable darkness by which mankind evolves its meaning.<br />This is a book well worth reading. Winner's views have wide consonance in society. His feeling of unease in the face of technological change is shared by many. There is a wide gulf in understanding between those who share Winner's view and the bulk of society which finds that its beliefs are compatible with technological change. This gulf can be seen by the mutual incomprehension on both sides of the globalization debate. I disagree with Winner's views and find his view of technology as political incomplete. However he masterfully describes the issues that a5re driving these worldwide protests. Most of these protests are inarticulate expressions of an emotional horror at the loss of meaning. Winner provides us with an insightful analysis of the issues that is clear and thoughtful.<br />This is a book well worth reading.an open educated way that provides frees them from obsolete constraints while emphasizing long held beliefs of individual dignity and freedom.<br />The movies Modern Times and Metropolis show technology in the way it is viewed by Winner. Technology is shown as an over-powering force that indifferently shapes mankind to its needs. However the dystopias presented in these movies and seen by Winner has not come about. Society has become more open. Society has become freer with the political changes driven by technology.<br />Winner decries the lack of meaning and tradition he sees around him. To him meaning comes from society and change eliminates meaning. For others, meaning comes from an eternal process of which change is a part. Meaning is not fixed but a continual striving for understanding. Technology is accepted because it is part of that process. Technology is then part of an ineffable darkness by which mankind evolves its meaning.  <br />This is a book well worth reading. Winner's views have wide consonance in society. His feeling of unease in the face of technological change is shared by many. There is a wide gulf in understanding between those who share Winner's view and the bulk of society which finds that its beliefs are compatible with technological change. This gulf can be seen by the mutual incomprehension on both sides of the globalization debate. I disagree with Winner's views and find his view of technology as political incomplete. However he masterfully describes the issues that a5re driving these worldwide protests. Most of these protests are inarticulate expressions of an emotional horror at the loss of meaning. Winner provides us with an insightful analysis of the issues that is clear and thoughtful.<br />This is a book well worth reading.	2002-02-07
US	51145468	R1TREYRLR9PT99	0871569531	211201266	Turning Away from Technology: A New Vision for the 21st Century	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Turning Away from Individuality	For those puzzled by the motivations of anti-globalization protestors, this book provides insight into the beliefs that drive these movements. As is usual in discussions from within this movement, the participants in the conferences summarized by this book present an entire laundry list of things that they oppose. These contain the expected capitalism and nuclear power but also include, perhaps surprisingly for those outside of this movement other things including television, computers etc.<br />This extensive list of unacceptable technologies and systems confuses people who try to understand the mass protests which thereby seem unfocused an pointless. However reading this book shows that they all stem from a common root. This is a movement that is opposed to individuality. It has been created by people who find their identity in community. They see technology as Jacques Ellul saw 'technic' as creating the 'one best way' which destroys local communities and leaves the individual without a system of belief with which to structure his/her life. The long of things thy oppose from the WTO to globalization to television are all things which they see as antithetical to the community-derived beliefs which they see as the basis for any fulfilled life.<br />The book's subtitle is &quot;A New Vision for the 21st Century.' The vision that these people have is not new. Indeed it is entirely conventional. They find meaning in their lives by the ability toi live within a comforting structure. In this they are very similar the  `family values' movement. Indeed the opposition that both of these movements have to television are based on the same root of damage to community. Both movements look to the community to define values. They prefer the legitimacy of traditional and shared beliefs to what they see as reckless and dangerous innovations that they fear will leave people rootless. This is most evident in the chapter 11 which discusses the role of woman and the effect of technology on that role. There is real discomfort in the description of the discussions about thuis topic with the difficulty in making feminism compatible with a belief in a strongly structured community. The participants use the jargon of feminism but as the editor points out the largest number of them support strongly defined gender roles. This is obviously incompatible with the goals of feminism which is a powerful political force and a strongly legitimizing set of beliefs for modern activists.<br />To see the lengths to which members of this movement can go to render these incompatible belief systems compatible, I recommend the book `Gender' by Ivan Illich. `Gender' is not a deep book by any means nor does it provide any significant set of facts or analysis. Rather it is interesting in the lengths that Illich goes to try to show that culturally-defined gender roles are not what they seem when the come from traditional communities. Illich tries to declare that whit is black if it comes from traditional communities and fails in a very spectacular way.<br />The book is a summary of the contributions to conference discussions. With this, it cannot be the lear development of any one set of ideas. It does give an overview of the points of view of many of the thinkers in the movement. However it is more of a book for sampling than fro deep study. It is a collection of extemporaneous remarks and the drifting focus of a conversation. The book `Liquid Modernity' by Zygmund Baumann is a much better description of the ideas that technology is depriving people of structure that gives meaning. An interesting counter- by Paul Levinson argument to can be found in the book `Soft Edge' which argues that community and technology are co-evolutionary and that any technology that is dehumanizing cannot succeed. It will hinder the community that created it and will thus be eliminated by selection.<br />This book is interesting as a sampler to discover the concerns of the people, in this movement. In this, it is well worth reading. However it is not a book of scholarship or even of clearly expressed ides. It is more of a collective rant - a cry of anger and despair at forces these people see as challenging their defining beliefs. For clear analysis and insight one has to go elsewhere. Ellul, Postman and others can provide an analysis based on the ideas presented here in a much more lucid coherent and cogent way.<br />This book is worth reading for anyone who wishes to understand the motivations of the anti- globalization protests. However it is as unfocussed and full of anger as that movement is. It is worth reading not for its ostensible content but as a witness to the attitudes and belief that drive that content.ent. In this, it is well worth reading. However it is not a book of scholarship or even of clearly expressed ides. It is more of a collective rant - a cry of anger and despair at forces these people see as challenging their defining beliefs. For clear analysis and insight one has to go elsewhere. Ellul, Postman and others can provide an analysis based on the ideas presented here in a much more lucid coherent and cogent way.<br />This book is worth reading for anyone who wishes to understand the motivations of the anti- globalization protests. However it is as unfocussed and full of anger as that movement is. It is worth reading not for its ostensible content but as a witness to the attitudes and belief that drive that content.	2002-01-06
US	51145468	RONAUBR5F8CK9	0415142768	368909854	Lakatos: An Introduction	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lucid and Accessible	I am a layman with interest in philosophical concepts and how they can be applied to my own field of study. I am presenting this review as of interest to other layman and not of direct interest to professions in this field.<br />The above being said, I found this book to be a lucid and accessible introduction to the ideas of Lakatos. I would recommend it to anyone else who is in my position of trying to understand the philosophical space without an exhaustive philosophical background..<br />Larvor presents Lakatos ideas in an historical manner. He relates them to the ideas of Kuhn and Popper that they advanced. He shows their origin in Lakatos' personal background in Hegel and Marx.  The connections to these other thinkers is made clear with their ideas as they relate to Lakatos work thoroughly explained. This connection provides and understanding of not only Lakatos' work in their context but of the broader scope of their ideas in philosophy.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who like me would like to understand the ides brought forth in philosophical investigations but lacks a formal background. It is an excellent book for self-instruction. It provides a clear grounding that makes the reading of the books by these major thinkers much more worthwhile. I had read Lakatos, Kuhn and Popper before I read this book. This book greatly helped me by giving greater clarity to the ideas that I had found there and by making subtle but important issues that I had not understood sufficiently much clearer.	2001-12-10
US	51145468	R1M247KLWLHIQR	0805068031	3918433	Day of Infamy, 60th Anniversary: The Classic Account of the Bombing of Pearl Harbor	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Personal Histories of Pearl Harbor	This is a first person history of the events around Pearl Harbor. This is not a book which examines the great issues. It is a book which captures the feelings and experiences of the people who lived through the attack on he American side. It traces their dawning realization that the idyllic peace time existence that they had led up to December 7th had been changed in an instant. It traces the difficulty that these people had to understand that a war was on. They woke up on a Sunday to live their quotidian lives and found themselves in the midst of a defining moment in history. Lord captures their incredulity with anecdotes such as one in which a person going to church is strafed by a Japanese fighter and carrys on to church unable to fully understand what had happended to him and another in whach a distinguished surgeon addressing a conference started his lecture with a joke about the explosions happening outside the hotel.<br />The book traces these individuals as in a few hours they transform themselves bafflement to determination. Lord shows how this was representative of eh US nation as a whole as isolationists as well as everyone else are changed by the attack. Lord's book is a history of individual lives caught up by great forces. It is book that focuses on the ordinary and the individual to bring focus to a great issue. It is well with reading.	2001-12-09
US	51145468	R1ZR40CSZIZR94	059600110X	352772224	Peer-to-Peer : Harnessing the Power of Disruptive Technologies	Books	4	7	7	N	N	War Stories	This book is a collection of war stories on the use of peer-to-peer technology. The papers are informal and only superficially technical. The book would best be used as source of papers that can be used to introduce the topic to managers and non-technical personnel. For this purpose it is well worth the money. However it is not one that I would recommend for someone with an interest in learning about specific technical issues. The book is good for its ostensible purpose and would be a worthy addition to any company's technical library. or design methodologies in general. It is well worth reading.	2001-12-04
US	51145468	R1RAP3UN6AJ3KT	0134565428	435192827	Use Case Maps for Object-Oriented Systems	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Notation with Uniquely Useful Capabiliites	Use case maps provide a unique method of linking the high-level functional specification of system behavior to traditional object-oriented notations. Traditional notations focus almost exclusively on the behavior of individual system components. They are essential for definition of behavior specific components but offer little to no insight into how components interwork to meet overall system objectives. System objectives that are essential to defining customer value are obscured in detailed considerations of specific component behavior. Use case maps provide a unique way of viewing system behavior.<br /><br />UML activity diagrams provide some of the same services but have difficulty with things that use case maps excel at. Use case maps by avoiding early commitments allow the evaluation of architectural alternatives. They allow specifiers and designers to keep their minds open to new opportunities by avoiding an early transition to specific implementation issues. Architectural alternatives may be specified and evaluated easily in the use case map notation.<br />The use case map ability to easily adapt to and handle uncertainties in requirements and operation will become even more important as time goes on. It is a commonplace observation now that no new systems are built.  Development is about evolving an existing system to meet new requirements. This is something that use case maps can do very well. They capture system operation above the technological details of implementation. They focus on identifying and clarifying behavior and so can point out the issues that must be addressed in system evolution. The maps can be coupled to various architectures and so can maintain and so maintain their meaning with and can be used to evaluate a variety of implementation architectures that are proposed for system evolution.<br />The ability of the maps to adapt allows them to be used to specify systems  that must dynamically adapt to user and network behavior. This is an important class of system now and will become even more important as more and more applications move to the network mode of operation.<br />Use case maps have found a following in the research community and tools are being built that allow performance predictions, function test cases, non-functional analysis and others to be carried out on use case map specifications.<br />The book is clear with good examples. It covers both the notation itself and the means to best apply it. This is a very worthwhile book that will be of interest to anyone with interests in requirements engineering, software engineering or design methodologies in general. It is well worth reading.rtant class of system now and will become even more important as more and more applications move to the network mode of operation. <br />Use case maps have found a following in the research community and tools are being built that allow performance predictions, function test cases, non-functional analysis and others to be carried out on use case map specifications.<br />The book is clear with good examples. It covers both the notation itself and the means to best apply it. This is a very worthwhile book that will be of interest to anyone with interests in requirements engineering, software engineering or design methodologies in general. It is well worth reading.	2001-12-04
US	51145468	R2KIHZHIJ7S38Z	0415197724	60767805	The Soft Edge: A Natural History and Future of the Information Revolution	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ellul, Postman et al Refuted	This book is a reply to the technological pessimists such as Ellul and Postman who see technology as dehumanizing. Levinson convincingly argues that technology is not dehumanizing in itself and indeed succeeds in establishing itself when it is matched to human forms of activities.<br />The title 'Soft Edge' is a comment on the ideas of technological determinism. Hard determinism is the view that technology contains within itself the means to dictate how it will be sued in society. Soft determinism is the view that technology can only influence the direction of how it will be used. Levinson seems to go even further by arguing that technology and human society co-evolve and that technology that is not amenable to successful human use will be eliminated. Successful technology is absorbed into the human fabric and new technology demonstrates its fitness in the natural selection process of this co-evolution by demonstrating its fitness to serve human needs.<br />Levinson clearly points out that this co-evolution does not necessarily have beneficial ends. It opens possibilities whereby both human good and human evil can flourish. It is a human choice as to which one - good or evil - will predominate. Levinson shows how the power of radio to create close personal contact benefited both the evil of Hitler and the virtue of Roosevelt. Each in their own way touched the feelings of their populations personally. Radio, in part, created the conditions whereby politicians of their respective sorts could lead. It was human choice and not technological determinism that allowed each to flourish.<br />This book contains important ideas that do much to refute the popular pessimism of the current day. It is well worth reading. However the style in which the book is written makes this a tedious exercise. It is difficult to follow the argument due to the incessant asides with only partially pertinent observations. It appears that instead of using footnotes, Levinson strung supporting observations and references in line in the text.<br />The main argument is obscured when it is broken up constantly with pages of observations that only marginally illustrate it. It is even worse when there is obvious carelessness in the presentations of the supporting commentaries and when obvious errors are made that hinder significantly its credibility. Special relativity is used as an example of the use of non-Euclidean geometry. Alexander Graham Bell is stated to have developed the telephone in one passage as part of a search for a hearing aid for his wife and correctly in another as an attempt to develop a harmonic telegraph. The explorer Jacques Cartier is misnamed Jean Cartier. This book needed a good editor. However in one of his innumerable asides, Levinson gives a lengthy account of the reason that he does not overly revise his work. He should change his mind on that.<br />Despite these flaws this is a good book with important ideas that bears close reading. I recommend it.bservations and references in line in the text. <br />The main argument is obscured when it is broken up constantly with pages of observations that only marginally illustrate it. It is even worse when there is obvious carelessness in the presentations of the supporting commentaries and when obvious errors are made that hinder significantly its credibility. Special relativity is used as an example of the use of non-Euclidean geometry. Alexander Graham Bell is stated to have developed the telephone in one passage as part of a search for a hearing aid for his wife and correctly in another as an attempt to develop a harmonic telegraph. The explorer Jacques Cartier is misnamed Jean Cartier. This book needed a good editor. However in one of his innumerable asides, Levinson gives a lengthy account of the reason that he does not overly revise his work. He should change his mind on that.<br />Despite these flaws this is a good book with important ideas that bears close reading. I recommend it.	2001-08-07
US	51145468	RVDJC96DZB5RY	014015910X	404354666	The Salterton Trilogy: Tempest-Tost Leaven of Malice a Mixture of Frailties	Books	5	13	13	N	N	I grew up in Salterton	I grew up in the town that Davies used as his model for Salterton. The Davies were a leading family in Kingston Ontario Canada. They were the publishers of the local newspaper which was a highly regarded journal in Canada.<br />Davies showed his ability to capture and describe character in these novels since they exactly describe the Kingston that I remember from my childhood in the 1950s.<br />Kingston was a university and government town with only a modest industrial base. The local establishment was bifurcated with one group centred on the university and another group comprised of local merchants and professionals. As one might expect in a small Ontario town in the 1950s, these groups were insular and provincial with a strong faith in their own virtue and legitimacy to rule. Davies captures this beautifully in is descriptions of the personalities and petty politics of the community. He captures this in their mutual  genteel but discreet contempt fot the working class population of Kingston based in the 'North End' that Davies describes.<br />However, Davies captures the personalities beyond the expected prejudices that one could expect in a provincial 1950 Canadian town. The characters themselves are accurately drawn. I recognise some of them even though they were a generation ahead of me and despite the fact that I grew up in the North End which was kept separate from the richer parts of the town.<br />One of the characters is undoubtedly my high school music teacher who was a remarkable man. Daives describes hem only briefly in 'Tempest Tost' but he captures the personality of this wonderful man accurately and sympathetically. The same can be said for all of Davies' characters.<br />These are remarkable books that find the universal that lies behind all of us. They are well worth reading	2001-07-30
US	51145468	RJUBJOT5TYMOQ	0679748164	386435416	Systems of Survival: A Dialogue on the Moral Foundations of Commerce and Politics	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Morality in conflict but necessarily interdependent	Our society has principles that forbid us to kill and yet our society also has principles that require it to prepare for and engage in war. Much has been made of this conflict in morality but very little light has been shed on it despite its ancient origin. Jacob's tackles this apparent contradiction and others in another of her books where her searching insight can discover ideas that have eluded others.<br />Jacobs resolves the apparent conflict by showing that it is no conflict at all but really the interworking of two disjoint moralities that must function interdependently to allow our society to flourish.<br />Our society functions to interfere with the liberty of its inhabitants as little as possible and yet it can restrict the freedom of malefactors and even sentence them to long terms of imprisonment. Jacob's identifies this as the interworking of the commercial and guardian syndromes of morality. These moralities are contradictory - what is a vice in one is a virtue in the other. And yet we need them both. The commercial syndrome abjures force and encourages voluntary agreement. This is the syndrome that characterises interpersonal interaction within our society. It is desirable and yet it is incomplete. Its success requires the confidence of all particpants that the principles of the syndrome. This is provided by the guardian syndrome which is based on coercion and strict adherence to fixed rules.<br />Jacobs shows how these sysndromes must be kept separate in society for just as initiayive and industry are virtues in the commercial syndrome they are vices in the guardian syndrome. Simliarly the guardian sysndrome requires largesse but the commercial requires invenstment and efficiency.  A guardian cannot make laws on his own or use his offce to enrich himself without disabling the entire society. Similarly a commericial participant cannot use coercion on others since it destroys the flexibility that gives the commercial syndrome its societal benefits.<br />A clear example of this can be seen in present day Russia in which the machinery of government has been taken over by ogliarchs who run it for their own benefit. The commercial and guardian syndromes are intertwined and so both fail. The obvious crime here is the violation of trust by these official but another crime is that this makes the entire country poor. People can not have trust in voluntary agreements and so do not make them. The economy fails because the commercial sundrome is violated and poverty results not from the funds directly stolen by officials but from the wealth that they prevent creating.<br />I am only skimming the behaviors that Jacob's describes in her book and cannot do justice to her ideas in this brief review. It is book full of insight and wisdom. It is well worth reading.<br />The only flaw I see in the book is not in  the content  but the form in which it was written. The dialogue style is not Jacob's strength but this is only a samll flaw in an book that is excellent overall.r />A clear example of this can be seen in present day Russia in which the machinery of government has been taken over by ogliarchs who run it for their own benefit. The commercial and guardian syndromes are intertwined and so both fail. The obvious crime here is the violation of trust by these official but another crime is that this makes the entire country poor. People can not have trust in voluntary agreements and so do not make them. The economy fails because the commercial sundrome is violated and poverty results not from the funds directly stolen by officials but from the wealth that they prevent creating.<br />I am only skimming the behaviors that Jacob's describes in her book and cannot do justice to her ideas in this brief review. It is book full of insight and wisdom. It is well worth reading.<br />The only flaw I see in the book is not in  the content  but the form in which it was written. The dialogue style is not Jacob's strength but this is only a samll flaw in an book that is excellent overall.	2001-07-30
US	51145468	R38NX5QBMN88GO	0691050201	612592481	The Problem of Trust	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Trust as a Result of Limits	Selgiman book is a contribution to the issues of 'social capital' and 'civil society' that is much in vogue these days. Seligman attempts to distnguish and clarify the concepts that form the background to these ideas.<br />Seligman intially shows what has been termed trust by writers such as Fukayama is  not trust but a form of familiarity. The trust that Fukayama's social capital is built on is a learned confidence in the behaviour of others. Someone living in a culture can learn that that others can be guaranteed to perform their roles in a predictable manner and so can learn that there is little risk in reliance on their actions.<br />Seligman contrasts this familairity and confidence with what he terms 'trust.' Seligman shows that participants in modern society play far more roles than they did in the past and that of necessity there will be conflict in the imperatives of these roles. In Western society this has led to the privileging  of the concept of an individual who lies behind all of these roles.<br />With refererence to the work of Enlightment philosophers, Seligman shows that this precludes the use of familiarlity to reduce risk in social itneraction. Interactions cannot be predicted from past behaviour. The indvidual move from being a role filler to an auronomous agent which negotiates behavior that is not controlled by role expecatation. Trust is that property which at the limits where role expectations fail can allow agents to rely on the good faith of others.<br />Seligman shows how trust is not a necessary result of the process of role multiplication and fragmentation but is an historical fact resulting from the forces in western culture. h He discusses how the current forces of identity politics, political correctness aand the like are attempts to eliminate trust with its acceptance of risk. These are attempts to define and control all apsects of behavior by removing the capability of agency from the individual. The indvidual with them is defined by the external attributes of his/her role.<br />To Selignam trust is about the acceptance of risk. It can only be found in the beahvior of autonomous agents. It contrasts to familiarity which can be used to learn the actions of role fillers whose actions are determined by the expectations of their roles. Identiy politics is a direct attack on the idea of the individual.y the external attributes of his/her role. <br />To Selignam trust is about the acceptance of risk. It can only be found in the beahvior of autonomous agents. It contrasts to familiarity which can be used to learn the actions of role fillers whose actions are determined by the expectations of their roles. Identiy politics is a direct attack on the idea of the individual.	2001-07-29
US	51145468	R3VAU38X1Z8YMY	0195133730	131201595	The Sociological Imagination	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Robust Problems Define Excellence	TThis is a masterful work by an original thinker. Wright was concerned with the developments that he was seeing in the social sciences in his time. He was concerned that the social sciences was developing in ways that limited its value to humanity and therefore to itself.  He saw the social science of his day as working against true freedom in society by allowing itself to be used to manipulate the population into unthinking acceptance of established authority.<br />He saw two major trends that removed the social sciences from addressing robust problems whose solution would make genuine differences to humanity. The first was a retreat into 'Theory' so abstract that it was unable to describe anything of significance. Wright uses as an example an article  that describes a theory of human relationships that was so abstracted from reality that, as Wright shows, it could not capture the fact that sometimes people accept the norms of their society unwillingly. This theory was wrapped in such opaque jargon to unambiguously define the trivial that it last all relationship to genuine society.<br />Wright also identifies as a further development in the social sciences, an empiricism so constrained by technique that it can only address the most specific and mundane problem. If theory has become to remote and abstract to contact real society this empiricism is equivalent in being so immersed in the specifics of a society that it cannot capture more than the trivial.<br />Wright's book is a plea to social scientists to abandon these two enterprises and to return to a social science which is concerned with problems whose solutions will change society,. He calls the ability to find and understand such problems the sociological imagination. He sees practitioners of this form of sociology as inherently political. They may not be in political office but they make their findings known to be acted upon in the political milieu.<br /> Wright sees this as a way to genuine freedom in that the governed will know the structure of the society that is governing them and can then freely choose to live within it or to make changes. Wright is concerned that the social sciences of his time were not used to promote this genuine understanding of society by the population but to manipulate them into a passive acceptance of norms that may not be in their interest. He is afraid of a beneficent tyranny with a population of what he calls happy robots.<br />This book is a denunciation of passive acquiescence and a plea for informed acceptance as the basis of society. Wright's fears are as valid today as when he wrote them over 40 years ago.the governed will know the structure of the society that is governing them and can then freely choose to live within it or to make changes. Wright is concerned that the social sciences of his time were not used to promote this genuine understanding of society by the population but to manipulate them into a passive acceptance of norms that may not be in their interest. He is afraid of a beneficent tyranny with a population of what he calls happy robots.<br />This book is a denunciation of passive acquiescence and a plea for informed acceptance as the basis of society. Wright's fears are as valid today as when he wrote them over 40 years ago.	2001-07-13
US	51145468	R2XER2UQB6OZHE	0745624103	795038425	Liquid Modernity	Books	4	63	66	N	N	Bound by Freedom	Bauman makes a distinction between solid and the liquid modernity of his title. The book is analysis in several sections of the effect of society in Bauman's terms becoming liquid. Previously people were immersed in solid societies that produced the norms by which people lived. People could structure their lives by being members of their society and could measure their success by measuring themselves against their society's norms.<br />Bauman gives an account of how modernity's emphaisis on the individual has resulted in the destruction of these norms all in the name of giving freedom and self-determination to the individual. However this freedom and self-determination is in many ways illusional. Society may have restricted an individual but in many ways it enabled the indiviual by supplying the support and infrastrcture for them to live their lives. Now indviduals are are on their own. They must construct themselves from the beginning without support and as Bauman points out they must not only construct themseleves they must construct the measures that allow them to assess the meaning and success of their lives. They are bound by their own freedom.<br />Bauman shows how the loss of interdependency is enabled by technologies that are not dependent on proximity. Long lasting relationships and societies are built by people who have to find ways to live together and face the exigencies of their physical and ecomomic environments. Woth modern technolgy the dependence on territory is diminished and the technologially and economically enabled can simply move from one opportunity to another and are not tied to the economic fortunes of any  one partcular territory. Those tied to a territory are fated to experience booms and busts with no long lasting support from society.<br />The result of this according to Bauman is a society of individuals who are tied only to themselves and only to the present. They construct not cathedrals to the glory fo their society but talk shows which give them comfort by showing others lost in the problems of their indviduality. Humanity has given up Notre Dame to find comfort in Jerry Springer.<br />Bauman produces real insights in this book that explain many aspects of modern society. However his views tend to the extereme. Even the technological elite that he describes moving from one territitory to another are in reality bound both territorialy and socially. Knoweledge is created socially and the diffusion of knowledge relies on social conventions and proxmity. Bauman's views do not account for this dimension of tacit knowedge and social norms.which give them comfort by showing others lost in the problems of their indviduality. Humanity has given up Notre Dame to find comfort in Jerry Springer.<br />Bauman produces real insights in this book that explain many aspects of modern society. However his views tend to the extereme. Even the technological elite that he describes moving from one territitory to another are in reality bound both territorialy and socially. Knoweledge is created socially and the diffusion of knowledge relies on social conventions and proxmity. Bauman's views do not account for this dimension of tacit knowedge and social norms.	2001-07-07
US	51145468	R1Q7N1OA6OHAPU	1559637846	364411232	The Regional City	Books	4	44	57	N	N	Community is not everything	This is yet another book on a New Urbanist idea.<br />This one describes the idea of transit oriented communties. These are relatively dense planned communities that try to maintain what is seen as the essentials of small community life.<br />The density and distribution of these communities make them amenable to public transport. However more emphasis is placed on the development of community. Shopping facilities are centralized and made accessible to pedestrians. Public buildings and public space like squares are made central to the life of the community. The public buildings are given distinguished architecture to show their importance to the community. The public park or square is placed at the hub of planned pedestrian traffic to provide a place for unplanned meetings and interactions.<br />As it is this soert of community will probably work. The idea of the public square at a transportation crossroads as a means to creatre interaction is straight out of Bill Hillier's seminal work 'Space is the machine.' With proper attention to the principles presented by Hillier, there is no reason why a community designed in the way advocated here cannot produce the types of interactions advocated within this book.<br />However the book does not go far enough to truly identify what these principles are or even to state clearly and directly what basic principles are guiding the plans that it advocates. It would be possible to create developments that follow the plans described here that would work against the outcomes that it is advocating. Hillier's book, in its analysis of some modern housing estates based on similar goals, demosntrates this.<br />Yet there is something fundamentally wrong with this book. It is a basic statement of architectural determinism. Traditional suburbs are blamed for all problems in society from environmental pollution to school shootings and possibly even to asteroid impacts causing mass extinctions. There seems to be nothing wrong in society that is not the fault of suburbs and that cannot be fixed by these pedestrian-based communities.<br />The author acknowleges that the autonomy and privacy provided by the suburban form is attractive to many. He even states that his suggested community form is not antithetical to it. However following that one statement the remainder of the book is a jerimiad against suburban life. Privacy and autonomy references are replaced with descriptions of isolation and alienation.<br />The book would be more convincing if it remained an advocacy for its desired form. There is no doubt that this form if designed properly can foster the close community life that many people find very attractive. However not all people are attracted to this sort of life. Many people prefer the social autonomy that is provided to them in suburbs. With modern communication mechanisms like the telephone, Email, automobile etc, they can maintain multiple social netowkrs each with the social distance that they find comfortable. They are not forced to interact with a neighbor that they do not care for simply because his residence is nearby.<br />All in all this is a good book for its purpose. The unfortunate blathering about the short comings of suburbs distracts from its main purpsoe and weakens its argument. However many will find the small community life presented here very attractive.<br />It is worth reading despite these handicaps.hat is not the fault of suburbs and that cannot be fixed by these pedestrian-based communities.<br />The author acknowleges that the autonomy and privacy provided by the suburban form is attractive to many. He even states that his suggested community form is not antithetical to it. However following that one statement the remainder of the book is a jerimiad against suburban life. Privacy and autonomy references are replaced with descriptions of isolation and alienation. <br />The book would be more convincing if it remained an advocacy for its desired form. There is no doubt that this form if designed properly can foster the close community life that many people find very attractive. However not all people are attracted to this sort of life. Many people prefer the social autonomy that is provided to them in suburbs. With modern communication mechanisms like the telephone, Email, automobile etc, they can maintain multiple social netowkrs each with the social distance that they find comfortable. They are not forced to interact with a neighbor that they do not care for simply because his residence is nearby.<br />All in all this is a good book for its purpose. The unfortunate blathering about the short comings of suburbs distracts from its main purpsoe and weakens its argument. However many will find the small community life presented here very attractive.<br />It is worth reading despite these handicaps.	2001-05-15
US	51145468	R19FCFG1167WLN	0521290384	446773647	Proofs and Refutations: The Logic of Mathematical Discovery	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Mathematics as a human endeavor to meet human needs	I would recommend that anyone interested in mathermaics or indeed anyone interested in human activities read Imre Lakatos's seminal book 'Proofs and Refutations: The Logic of Mathematical Discovery'.<br />Lakatos direcctly makes the  distinction between formal and informal mathematics. Formal mathematics is contained in the proofs published in mathematical journals. Informal mathematics are the strategies that working mathemeticians use to make their work a useful exercise in mathematical discovery.<br />The proof provided for the four colour theorm which was derved in the 1970's relied heavily on the sue of computers and brute force technqiues. It was extremely cotroversial not because it was invalid but because of the issues which Lakatos so clearly describes in this book.It was undoubtedly a valid formal proof. However it did nothing to advance the cause of mathematics beyond this.<br />The reason that Lakatos equates proofs and refutation in his title is his contention that it is the refutations that are developed that show mathematicians the deficiencies and indeed teh possibilites in their theories. A refutation does not necessarily discredit a theory. Instead it provides insights to the theory's limitations and possibiliites for future development. It is their attempts to deal with unwanted and unexpected refutations - to preserve a valuable theory in the face of imperfect axioms and proof methods  - that teach mathemeticians the true depths of their conceptions and to point the way to new and deeper ones.<br />Lakatos shows this by an account of the historical development of the concept of proof in mathematics and by showing in historical detail how certain valuable 'proofs' were preserved in the face of refutation. To this point Lakatos shows that the 'proofs' of the truth of Euler's number are no proofs at all. The great mathemetician Euler noticed that for any regular polyhedron the formula V-E+F=2 holds where V is the number of vertexes, E is the number of edges and F is the number of faces. Euler's and his successors proofs fall before any number of counterexamples. Does this prove that the theorem is 'incorrect?' Or does it mean as  mathemetician's actions show that they thought it meant was that their concept of what constituted a regular polyhedron was deficient. Lakatos shows how these conceptions were modified over a couple of hundred years as counterexample after counterexample were faced.<br />These counterexamples all made mathematics stronger by deepening the conception of what polyhedra really are and by discovering new classes of them. In the end Euler's formula turned out not to have a proof but to be in effect a tautology. It is true for the regular polyhedra for which it is true by the definition of what constitutes a polyhedron. It is true because human mathematicians in order to make progress need it to be true.<br />The computer proof of the four color theorem was a triumph of formal mathematics. Its critics complained and if interpreted according to what Lakatos wrote in this book, they complained because it defeated the progress of informal mathematics.<br />Mathematical proofs are useful tools. The tell us what we need to know. Formal mathematics is about finding them. Informal mathematics is about making them useful. Mathematics is not some Platonian ideal divorced from humanity, painting, poetry ... It is a human endeavor to meet human needs.of edges and F is the number of faces. Euler's and his successors proofs fall before any number of counterexamples. Does this prove that the theorem is 'incorrect?' Or does it mean as  mathemetician's actions show that they thought it meant was that their concept of what constituted a regular polyhedron was deficient. Lakatos shows how these conceptions were modified over a couple of hundred years as counterexample after counterexample were faced. <br />These counterexamples all made mathematics stronger by deepening the conception of what polyhedra really are and by discovering new classes of them. In the end Euler's formula turned out not to have a proof but to be in effect a tautology. It is true for the regular polyhedra for which it is true by the definition of what constitutes a polyhedron. It is true because human mathematicians in order to make progress need it to be true.<br />The computer proof of the four color theorem was a triumph of formal mathematics. Its critics complained and if interpreted according to what Lakatos wrote in this book, they complained because it defeated the progress of informal mathematics. <br />Mathematical proofs are useful tools. The tell us what we need to know. Formal mathematics is about finding them. Informal mathematics is about making them useful. Mathematics is not some Platonian ideal divorced from humanity, painting, poetry ... It is a human endeavor to meet human needs.	2001-03-18
US	51145468	RTGXMTUWJAQYL	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Imagination and Words in the North End of Salterton	This book was the first piece of literature that I read. It was sometime just after I left high school and I picked the book up in a corner store near where I lived. One of the owner's was a force for good and took it upon herself to make literature available in the neighbourhood. Ours was a university town but our neighbourhood was the poor one and the residents were regarded with genteel contempt by the university and business groups. Robertson Davies lived there and captured all of this in his Salterton trilogy which describes the town and with it its attitude to the 'North End' among other things. (If you have not read the books of the trilogy, I highly recommend them.)<br />The owner insisted that her book rack be stocked with some literature over the protests of the distributors who said that only pulp would sell in the North End. I bought the book and with it I saw what the power of imagination and words could be. I had not been exposed to anything like it previously. In a real way, it did give me the opportunity to change my life. Now that is not bad for a paperback that cost me only a few dollars.<br />I see from the ratings given here that others agree with me that this is a wonderful book full of imagination. It would be a great gift to a young relative or an old one for that matter.<br />I recommend it strongly.	2001-03-07
US	51145468	R24IDB1S5GKLA5	0029116023	299489811	Muse in the Machine	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Emotions as Interpretations of Reality	Gelernter recognizes that the mind is a functional part of the human being. It evolved to help the entire being function within its environment and to say the same thing its functions are defined by the need of the human being to function within that environment. The mind is not an abstract device separated from reality as is the common assumption.<br />Gelernter identifies the bases of the mind's mechanisms as emotions and memory. By emotion, Gelernter means a way by which the organism can capture and characterise its current state. The commonly known emotions of fear and hunger are obvious examples of this but Gelernter expands this to include very fine-grained feelings that blur the lines between the distinct feelings that are commonly viewed as emotions. He shows how a composite feeling of contentment and anticipation on a boat trip can be viewed as a distinct emotion, for example. With this ability to finely characterize a situation by an emotion,the organism can identify similar situations that it met in the past. It can then select its actions based on the success or failure of actions in past similar situations. His view of the mind is similar to the common engineering techniques of case-based and memory-based reasoning.<br />However Gelernter expands on these common models by showing how his views on emotions link to poetry as an example of a higher human faculty that is commony thought to be unexplainable at the functional level. Gelernter identifies that the method for matching of situations by emotional memory may by either loosely of tightly focussed. Tight foucus is conventional reasoning in which details are important. Loose focus allows apparently disparate situations to be matched based only on the structure of the connections in the consitituent emotions. This type of reaosning is what Gerlernter states as the source of creativity. It is what allows a poet to find common ground with his reader as Gelernter demonstrates with his comparison of his idea to T.S. Eliot's 'objective correlative.' Gelernter shows his ideas with examples from the English Romantic poets and from apparently inexplicable passages from the Bible which can be explained as examples of loosely focussed emotional connectivity.<br />A book which has references to AI, the Bible, English Romantic poets and more is of course interesting. Rdferences in the book to authors as diverse as marvin Misnky. Shelley, Byron and the author of Geneisis must makw this a unique book.<br />This book is worth reading.ea to T.S. Eliot's 'objective correlative.' Gelernter shows his ideas with examples from the English Romantic poets and from apparently inexplicable passages from the Bible which can be explained as examples of loosely focussed emotional connectivity.<br />A book which has references to AI, the Bible, English Romantic poets and more is of course interesting. Rdferences in the book to authors as diverse as marvin Misnky. Shelley, Byron and the author of Geneisis must makw this a unique book.<br />This book is worth reading.	2001-03-04
US	51145468	RMBMXF381AFDF	046504316X	179310455	Machine Beauty: Elegance And The Heart Of Technology (Repr Ed) (Masterminds)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beauty as a Means of Handling Complexity	Modern engineering systems are very complex and must be designed to meet conflicting constraints. The major hurdle facing an engineering designer is to find a way to meet these many competeing contraints in an affordable amount of time at an affordable price. Much work has gone on in computer science on the analysis of systems by formal methods. The hope of these technques is that the entire operation and requirements of a system can be captured in a mathematical model which would allow the 'correctness' of the sytem to its requirements to be proved.<br />This is the major ideas of such distingushed researchers  as Hoare and Parnas. Unfortunately these methods have never been found to work in practice. For anything but a toy system the complexity of the formal model becomes intractable. But there is a more important reason for the failure. How can 'correctness' be defined fro a real world system which must work in a filed of changing requirements.<br />Gelernter identifies this problem but notes that it is solved everyday by real world engineers who must face real world requirements. These engineers are not deterred by the failure of formal methods. Instead they rely on a sense of beauty which is a sense gained from experience in how a system can meet its requiremtns. It is this abilty to see though the complexity to see the structure and pattern in the design that will dictate its degree of success that enable a human designer to function where strictly mathematical and logical techniques fail. Only techniques which use holistic thinking can succeed in in the real world.<br />It is often thought that human reaoning pales beside the clarity of logic and mathematics in understanding the world and how devices function. Gelernter rightly points out that this common attitude is precisely worng. Formal mathematical technqiues have failed where they have been claimed to be paramount. The human understanding of beauty is an ability to function in the world by identifying what is most suited to an issue.<br />Gelernter seems to be saying that the quest of many people to reduce the world to mathematics can only result in failure. It is confusing certainty with knowledge. Experience has shown that these technqiues cannot cope with real world complextity. The proponents of such techniques often portray themsleves as realisitc pragmatists who confront the problem which others try to avoid. Gelernter shows that these people are blind to the real problem and exhibit an unjustified faith in cold specific logic. Only techniques which can view the problem and proposed solutions holistically can hope to cope with real world complexity. It are these technqiues which supposed pragmatists heap scorn on which are most practical. It is poetry and not mathematics which bests describes the world.<br />This book is worth reading.hat is most suited to an issue.<br />Gelernter seems to be saying that the quest of many people to reduce the world to mathematics can only result in failure. It is confusing certainty with knowledge. Experience has shown that these technqiues cannot cope with real world complextity. The proponents of such techniques often portray themsleves as realisitc pragmatists who confront the problem which others try to avoid. Gelernter shows that these people are blind to the real problem and exhibit an unjustified faith in cold specific logic. Only techniques which can view the problem and proposed solutions holistically can hope to cope with real world complexity. It are these technqiues which supposed pragmatists heap scorn on which are most practical. It is poetry and not mathematics which bests describes the world.<br />This book is worth reading.	2001-03-04
US	51145468	R3D579XP7VYBGH	0070338892	899612233	The New Urbanism: Toward an Architecture of Community	Books	3	101	157	N	N	Community is not Architecture	I grew up in what new urbanists would probably call a paradise. It was a real community in which neighbours were really neighbours. People did sit on their verandahs and converse with their neighbours on the street. There was an understanding that one could borrow things if the owner wasn't using them. It was considered polite to tell the owner if he was there but if he was away one could just borrow the thing and tell him when he came home if one was still using it. In short it was everything new urbanism wants. This was in a moderately large city in Canada.<br />There were two things wrong with this paradise:<br />a) it was not about verandahs, facing the street etc. It was about control and conformity. The neighbourhood protected itself by frowning on unexpected behavior. There was an expected range of interests and an expected range of activity. If someone went out of this range, one could expect social sanctions unfailingly. The dark side of Jacobs 'eyes-on-the-street' is Foucault's 'gaze.' The neighbourhood worked as an exercise in power. The verandahs and street life were instruments of that power. Heaven help anyone who had non-standard interests.<br />b) the neighbourhood was unsustaining. With the growth of the personal rights ethos, the ability of the neighbourhood to control its inhabitants fell away. No longer could the neighbourhood fathers take action to control petty teenage misbehaviour. Instead personal rights and social policy took these controls away from the neighbourhood and gave them to government agencies. As a result the neighbourhood is now perhaps not unsafe but definitely uncomfortable. No one leaves tools or equipment out now in case a neighbour needs to borrow it. Everything is locked up. The doors are firmly closed and neighbours now complain to the police instead of discussing thier joint problems.<br />New urbanism seems to miss this point. Neighbourhoods are about local power. For some people this produces a comfortable paradise. For those slightly different it creates a jail of conformity. Some people thrive in it. Some peole will be stifled. Neighboourhoods are an exercise in hopefully beneficent control. Architecture does not create this control. It can destroy it certainly and make it impossible but it cannot create it.r those slightly different it creates a jail of conformity. Some people thrive in it. Some peole will be stifled. Neighboourhoods are an exercise in hopefully beneficent control. Architecture does not create this control. It can destroy it certainly and make it impossible but it cannot create it.	2001-03-01
US	51145468	R1DGSQ29PTUUOA	0865475571	690664705	Suburban Nation: The Rise of Sprawl and the Decline of the American Dream	Books	3	36	56	N	N	Sprawl is not the issue	Rhia book describes a set of esthetics that purport to dictate desirable social goals. Can esthetics do this or perhaps more achievably can esthetics influence it. More to the point are the goals described in this book desirable. That depends upon who you are of course.<br />I grew up in what new urbanists would probably call a paradise. It was a real community in which neighbours were really neighbours. People did sit on their verandahs and converse with their neighbours on the street. There was an understanding that one could borrow things if the owner wasn't using them. It was considered polite to tell the owner if he was there but if he was away one could just borrow the thing and tell him when he came home if one was still using it. In short it was everything new urbanism wants. This was in a moderately large city in Canada.<br />There were two things wrong with this paradise:<br />a) it was not about verandahs, facing the street etc. It was about control and conformity. The neighbourhood protected itself by frowning on unexpected behavior. There was an expected range of interests and an expected range of activity. If someone went out of this range, one could expect social sanctions unfailingly. The dark side of Jacobs 'eyes-on-the-street' is Foucault's 'gaze.' The neighbourhood worked as an exercise in power. The verandahs and street life were instruments of that power. Heaven help anyone who had non-standard interests.<br />b) the neighbourhood was unsustaining. With the growth of the personal rights ethos, the ability of the neighbourhood to control its inhabitants fell away. No longer could the neighbourhood fathers take action to control petty teenage misbehaviour. Instead personal rights and social policy took these controls away from the neighbourhood and gave them to government agencies. As a result the neighbourhood is now perhaps not unsafe but definitely uncomfortable. No one leaves tools or equipment out now in case a neighbour needs to borrow it. Everything is locked up. The doors are firmly closed and neighbours now complain to the police instead of discussing thier joint problems.<br />New urbanism seems to miss this point. Neighbourhoods are about local power. For some people this produces a comfortable paradise. For those slightly different it creates a jail of conformity. Some people thrive in it. Some peole will be stifled. Neighboourhoods are an exercise in hopefully beneficent control. Architecture does not create this control. It can destroy it certainly and make it impossible but it cannot create it.verything is locked up. The doors are firmly closed and neighbours now complain to the police instead of discussing thier joint problems.<br />New urbanism seems to miss this point. Neighbourhoods are about local power. For some people this produces a comfortable paradise. For those slightly different it creates a jail of conformity. Some people thrive in it. Some peole will be stifled. Neighboourhoods are an exercise in hopefully beneficent control. Architecture does not create this control. It can destroy it certainly and make it impossible but it cannot create it.	2001-03-01
US	51145468	RF5RBYQZ6111U	0066620694	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: The Revolutionary National Bestseller That Changed The Way We Do Business	Books	5	1	2	N	N	True also for success of  existing technologies	I concur with the large majority of reviewers that this is an exceptional book that reveals and explains clearly some of tthe amjor factors forcing technological evolution.<br />The author clearly points out that a primary factor for technological replacement is a mismatch between what a technology can deliver and what service values customers are willing to pay for. He demonstrates with case studies that technological capability evolution usually outpaces the increase in customer needs. This will usually result in a occurance where teh customer does not need and is unwilling to pay for a technology and so will replace by what was seen previously as an inferior choice.<br />Technological replacement is the scenario presented by the author. However there is another alternative which he did not describe. Chrostensen sees technological replacement as a change to a different network of values that means a change to a different technology. However the case of the competition between Ethernet and ATM (asynchronous transfer mode)for primacy in the local area network environment shows that is not teh only case. Ethernet was the existing technology and was based primarily on low cost. Much technological invenstment was made to reduce the costs of Ethernet interfaces until tehy became cheap enough to be ubiquitous. Its value as a low cost solution was challenged by ATM which was able to be competitive with Ethernet in price due to semiconductor advances and promised much more in the way of quality of service for new applications such as multimedia and voice processing.<br />ATM was the disruptive technology but it did not replace Ethernet. However its value network did dramatically alter the value network that Ethernet provided. Ethernet providers did not retreat into niche high performance markets as Christenesen illustrates that suppiers of other technologies did. Instead they adopted the value network of ATM and added it to their own. They also challenged ATM in its own value network by creating new values such as speed and ease of set up which directly challenged the fundamental ATM technology.<br />As Christensen pointed out, a change to a value metwork brings about technological change. However in this case there was no technological replacement. The existing technology faced the challenge to its value network by coopting that of the disruptive technology and adding new values of its own. It was the disruptive technology of ATM which fled to niche high performance markets.alue network by creating new values such as speed and ease of set up which directly challenged the fundamental ATM technology.<br />As Christensen pointed out, a change to a value metwork brings about technological change. However in this case there was no technological replacement. The existing technology faced the challenge to its value network by coopting that of the disruptive technology and adding new values of its own. It was the disruptive technology of ATM which fled to niche high performance markets.	2001-02-05
US	51145468	R1K77YNHXPXMC6	0140279164	528225956	The Religion of Technology: The Divinity of Man and the Spirit of Invention	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Theology as the Source of Technology in the West	This book traces the origin of the Internet and the attitudes of its developers to Protestant theology and its antecedents in Christianity. Instead of goodness entering the world through God's omnipotence, Protestants believe that they are required to build God's kingdom in this world. The drive in northern Europe for technological enhancements to life derives from this.<br />A book that offers an interesting insight on Noble's ideas is  'Collective Intelligence' by Pierre Levy.  This book examines the social impact of Internet technology and proposes a set of ideals that should be used to guide a society using it. Levy tries to show how his set of ideals would obtain the most benefits from society from this technology. An interesting part of the book occurs when Levy compares the mode of live in an Internet society with that derived from Catholic ideals. He recounts mediaeval Catholic philosophy on the means by which God's insight creates the world. God can exist by his contemplation of his own existence since he is the essence of all things and out of his contemplation springs angels which can contemplate their own existence but need other things to exist. There are 10 ranks of angels each created either by God's or the next higher angel rank's contemplation of themselves. The contemplation of the lowest rank of angels creates our world.<br />The nub of this is that the world is top down. The ideal is at the pyramid of existence and goodness derives its meaning from the top. Levy contrasts this with the new conception of the Internet as shown by Noble. The lowest rank which is our world can create a new world above it. In this case, it is the lowest level of connectivity of the Internet. This new world is good in so far as it enables the inhabitants of our world to flourish. The lowest levels in cyberspace can create higher levels of existence with no limits on the number of levels which corresponds to the ranks of angels. Goodness flows up these levels from the real world in direct contrast to Catholic theology.<br />These two books support each other. Levy offers this Internet world as an ideal and contrasts it with the Catholic ideal. Noble examines it as an historical process and notes  its derivation from Protestantism.<br />These are two very interesting books well worthy of attention.real world in direct contrast to Catholic theology.<br />These two books support each other. Levy offers this Internet world as an ideal and contrasts it with the Catholic ideal. Noble examines it as an historical process and notes  its derivation from Protestantism.<br />These are two very interesting books well worthy of attention.	2000-10-25
US	51145468	R6Z9UFF0Z2ZWJ	0738202614	742800557	Collective Intelligence: Mankind's Emerging World in Cyberspace (Helix Books)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Theology as the Origin and Goal of the Internet	If you want an interesting book, I'd recommend 'Collective Intelligence' by Pierre Levy.  This book examines the social impact of Internet technology and proposes a set of ideals that should be used to guide a society using it. Levy tries to show how his set of ideals would obtain the most benefits from society from this technology. An interesting part of the book occurs when Levy compares the mode of live in an Internet society with that derived from Catholic ideals. He recounts mediaeval Catholic philosophy on the means by which God's insight creates the world. God exists by hid contemplation his own existence since he is the essence of all things and out of this contemplation springs angels which can contemplate their own existence but need other things to exist. There are 10 ranks of angels each created either by God's or the next higher angel rank's contemplation of themselves. The contemplation of the lowest rank of angels creates our world.<br />The nub of this is that the world is top down. The ideal is at the pyramid of existence and goodness derives its meaning from the top. Levy contrasts this with the new conception of the Internet. The lowest rank which is our world can create a new world above it. In our case, it is the lowest level of connectivity of the Internet. This new world is good in so far as it enables the inhabitants of our world to flourish. The lowest levels in cyberspace can create higher levels of existence with no limits on the number of levels which corresponds to the ranks of angels. Goodness flows up these levels from the real world in direct contrast to Catholic theology. Another view on this can be found in, 'The Religion of Technology' by David F. Noble. This book traces the origin of the Internet and the attitudes of its developers to Protestant theology. Instead of goodness entering the world through God's omnipotence, Protestants believe that they are required to build God's kingdom in this world. The drive in northern Europe for technological enhancements to life derives from this.<br />These two books support each other. Levy offers this Internet world as an ideal and contrasts it with the Catholic ideal. Noble examines it as an historical process and notes  its derivation from Protestantism.<br />These are two very interesting books.r technological enhancements to life derives from this. <br />These two books support each other. Levy offers this Internet world as an ideal and contrasts it with the Catholic ideal. Noble examines it as an historical process and notes  its derivation from Protestantism.<br />These are two very interesting books.	2000-10-25
US	51145468	R28KYUWOUZLVNS	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Delight	I bought this book for my granddaughter. Her absolute delight in receivng it was worth infintiely more than the small sum that I paid for it.	2000-07-11
US	51145468	R19IMK0O5TCAB5	0812929012	924992585	The Working Life: The Promise and Betrayal of Modern Work	Books	4	25	32	N	N	Culture of Autonomy	Ciulla places great importance on personal autonomy. She is suspicious of any connection outside of thepersonal that infringrs on that autonomy. She finds difficulty in the fact that people draw at least some of their  identity from the world around them and in particular for this book from  their occupation or job. Ciulla constantly stresses the implicit danger of  betrayal and exploitation in this trust in others for life meaning. She  repeatedly draws comparison between this fidning of identity in one's job  with that of slavery in which the slaves identity is submerged to the  personal interests of teh master.<br />Ciulla's book is a strong advocacy of  her point of view written with an evident extensive background in the  subject. It is well worth reading but one must keep in mind that this book  is a brief to support one point of view.<br />As a side note. Ciulla deplores  the needs of some people to find their identity in their relationships with  others. She calls these people 'other-directed.' This is just the standard  extroversion that is highly prized in current culture. It is nice to read a  book in which introversion is praised as an ideal rather than being  regarded as an ailment to be treated.	2000-07-11
US	51145468	R3GKQHZ5CXSMCN	0394718747	171979453	Propaganda: The Formation of Men's Attitudes	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Activist to Cash Generation	This is a brilliant book. Have you ever wondered why idealistic organizations turn within a few years from activism to being soley commercial cash generators? This book shows how these organizationsa are  subverted by their own propaganda and become its victim. Now I know why I  receive so many printed form letters detailing a pressing social crisis and  asking for a guaranteed monthly donation.	2000-05-20
US	51145468	R3FHV1055RMFUJ	0137483104	247640077	Death March (Yourdon Press Computing Series)	Books	1	1	70	N	N	This is a bad book	This is a bad book. Do not waste your time reading it	2000-01-31
US	51145468	RR6RZEBLFOWYD	0394703901	275300193	The Technological Society	Books	3	12	26	N	N	A Naive World View  on 'The One Best Way'	Ellul writes of &quot;technique&quot; which is the force in human culture which emphasizes efficiency above all else Efficiency as embodied in technique thus covers engineering technology, political organization and many other entities. Ellul deplores the impetus to find what calls  &quot;the one best way&quot; in society. He claims that the drive for  efficiency destroys the capability of defining a local identity which is  the essence of human autonomy. There is only one most efficient way and  that way becomes the only way.<br />Ellul fears of a standardized society are  as pertinent today as ever. However he gives little evidence that it is  technique alone which drives this. His book is a series of unsubstantiated  claims that technique centralizes. The history of the last 35 years since  the book's publication in 1964 of the decentralizing aspects of technology  shows that he has only a naive grasp of the problem.	1999-09-08
US	51145468	RG60I93AM0BA8	0930588401	68243204	Gender	Books	2	10	47	N	N	A Muddle	Illich is faced with a problem. He deplores modern civilization as dehumanizing but recognizes only subsstence existence as an alternative. Unfortunately subsistence existence and other historically based cultures  prensent strongly based sex roles. This flies in the face of feminism which  denies the value of culurally defined sex roles and thus denies the values  of Illich's ideal culture. Since feminism is a powerful political force,  Illich must find a way to make his views compatible with it.<br />Illich  overcomes this by defining modern sexual roles as sexist but historical  cultural roles as gendered  This is the book. He overcomes the challenge  to his ideal by a linguistic definition. His history of social roles is  spotty and biased to prove his point.<br />The book is a sophistic muddle.  Mnay many better books that the social history of the home are available.	1999-08-16
US	51145468	R32R3IB957PD15	067974195X	775641653	The Death and Life of Great American Cities	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Excellent book --- but used by zealots	This is one of the fundamental books on the successful strcuturing of large cities. The ideas proesented here about the principles that will generate a liviable settlement are applicable to settlements of all sizes.  Jacob shows how these principles can be met within the structure of large  cities and how some of the convnetional designs of such cities hinder thme  and create non-ideal living spaces.<br />The book is excellent. Unfortunalely  however its solutions have been seiezed upon by zealots who try to fit  Jacob's solutions for large cities to settlements of every size. Jacobs'  ideas and name are used constantly in discussions on city planning. It  would be better if the people bandying her ideas about would read her  books. They might be surprised to find that theirs and her ideas about the  role of government in city planning may be quite dissimilar.	1999-06-18
US	51145468	R2R84RPQN8ESCN	0375750525	583942750	The Vagina Monologues	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Slight Words	This is a book about women discovering themselves. Unfortunately the ambition of the project is not realized with the superficial stream of consciousness approach used. This may have been effective as a device in  the play from which the book is derived but not here. The predicably trite  forward by Gloria Steinem is out of place in this book and hinders its aim.  Steinem only describes women in contrast to men not as ends in themselves.	1999-05-30
US	51145468	R10VZYP7JU24TV	038071115X	472609947	The Soul of a New Machine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Captures the Life of a Development Project	I read this book with recognition. It captures what is rarely captured which is the feelings that engineers have to the systems that they are creating. These attitudes must resemble that attitude of a mother to her new born. The engineer like her has dedicated his soul to the development of a new life. Once it is done it takes on a life of its own, divorced from its creator but it sill remains part of his soul.<br />This would be an excellent book for anyone who wishes to understand the motivations of engineers and the problems of managing an engineering project.	1999-05-11
