US	51152827	R1PDBYJZGYBFH7	0912141042	305516410	A Doctor at Calvary: The Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ As Described by a Surgeon	Books	4	23	23	N	N	A thorough, yet painful reminder of Christ's death...	&quot;I should no more expect anatomical precision from a theologian or a paleographer than I should ask a doctor for a dogmatic definition or for an explanation of some exegetical or historical point. To speak the truth, it seems to me essential that we should collaborate, and that each one should tell what he knows.&quot;  (pg. 150).<br /><br />Dr. Barbet gives us a heart-rending account of the pain and suffering that Christ undertook on our behalf.  In the book, Dr. Barbet begins with the Shroud (Chapter 1), speaks on crucifixion and what was know about this practice (Chapter 2 and 3) and ten launches into the sufferings of Christ based on what history tells us about the practice of crucifixion (Chapters 4 through 7). He then explains what archaeology and the Gospels tells us about the removal from the cross and the burial (Chapters 8 and 9). The last couple of chapters ten touch on a scientifically accurate crucifix (Chapter 10) and Dr. Barbets final thoughts (Chapter 11) followed by a meditation on the Passion of our Lord, Jesus Christ (Chapter 12).<br />Though the book was written in the 1940's, the science is good and widely accepted.  Dr. Barbet does a good job of putting things in a layman's context so everyone (not just those with an understanding of human anatomy/physiology) can understand what had taken place. The book s written very formally, but that is really a product of the time and does not detract from the message this book conveys.<br />After reading this book, I have come to a deeper appreciation of the sufferings of Christ, and I imagine that most people who do read this book will come to a similar conclusion.  For anyone wanting to come to a deeper appreciation of the Passion, I would highly recommend this book, and it would handsomely complement any Bible study of the Passion narratives, especially during the Lenten season.	2001-12-16
US	51152827	R2FUZN40QCAJA9	0898707617	782760796	If Your Mind Wanders at Mass	Books	5	95	96	N	N	An indepth review of the Catholic Mass	Some people might take offense at the title of the book, and on the basis of that alone, not pick it up and read it. &quot;Why, I always pay attention at Mass, I don't need this book.&quot; might be a common reply to the question asked by the title of this book, and they'd be fully justified in that answer, however this book can still help them out, and even come to a DEEPER appreciation of the Mass. Dr. Howard's book doesn't intend on giving suggestions on how we can &quot;bide our time&quot; during a boring church service, rather, Dr. Howard explains the meaning behind each part of the Mass and tells us why it is done, and why it has always been done this way. This book is meant as a resource, to give us a deeper appreciation of the Mass, allowing us to connect more deeply with each phase of the mass on a spiritual level. For those who are not Catholic, and are not familiar with the Mass, this book will serve as a valuable resouce for them, explaining why things are done and what to expect if the non-Catholic should ever attend a Mass. For Catholics, they will come to a deeper understanding and appreciation of why the Mass is the pinnacle of Christian worship, and why it should be treated as such. I highly recommend this book for everyone.	2001-09-06
US	51152827	RH6LXJ021P1NB	006061174X	535359377	The Magnificent Defeat	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Simply a masterpiece	Originally intended (as per Buechner's Introductory Note) for congregations consisting of predominantly young people, this compilation of 18 essay's speaks to every Christian who would sit down and read them.  The Magnificent Defeat is broken down into 3 parts. I - The Challenge to Surrender , II - The Triumph of Love, III - The Mystery and Miracle of Grace.  Each essay starts with a quote from scripture and then continues on with Buechners typical introspective point of view on the life of Christ, and in turn our own life as a result.  While Buechner does touch on some theological points, a lot of his essays deal with the search for the Truth.  Given the fact that it was originally intended for young people it does touch on the matters of the legitimacy of God (He does exist!) and why the person of Jesus Christ makes sense.  As an apologetics resource, I think Buechner touches the most basic of subjects in an easy to understand AND relateable manner.  These essays are powerful, and can also serve as a good topic of discussion during particular Christian seasons (i.e.: 2 essays on the Birth of Christ, 2 essays on the Death of Christ) as well.  I highly recommend this book, along with all the other Buechner works.  His style is unique, but just as relevant and just as strong as other great Christian writers, such as C.S. Lewis.	2001-04-05
US	51152827	R2P5WFC3S59PC6	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Interesting novel, but it's lacking in places	This book has it's good points, and it's bad points.  I'm going to start off by making a disclaimer to those who read this review and who are thinking of reading these books.  These books DO NOT represent all of Christianity.  Lahaye and Jenkins are Fundamentalists and as such, their theology differs (in some cases to extremes) from a lot of the more tradition Christian faiths (i.e.: Catholicism, Orthodoxism, Anglicanism and Lutheranism).  These books are fiction, and should remain fiction, I would not recommend them as witnessing or apologetic tools.  Please, do not use them to glean an understanding of the theology of Christianity.  With that said, I thought this book (along with the second one in this series) were very good.  The action was fast paced, the character development is done extremely well.  LaHaye and Jenkins do a good job of making these characters &quot;human&quot;, with their personal flaws and faults.  Reading about the trials and tribulations of the main characters certainly allows the reader to relate to the situations, which really helps these books move along. It also allows the reader to become attached to the characters, and whenever a book evokes emotions, it's going to be a very good read.  I also think that the authors do a good job of leading the reader along the plot.  Things are revealed slowly, but not so slow that the books drag.  As a matter of fact, the first two books go along quite quickly.  The problems begin with the third book of the series (the series was supposed to be a Trilogy but then was spaced out to cover an unknown number of books), and which is why I only have given it three stars (call it a hind-sight ranking - and it's because the series begins to become seriously lacking in the third and subsequent books).  However, if you don't mind the books &quot;slowing down&quot;, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend these books, however I think that there are other &quot;Apocalyptic&quot; literature books that are less expensive(i.e.: not an indeterminate number of novels) and written with a better grasp of theology and are a more accurate representation of Christianity (for example, the book Father Elijah by Michael O'Brien - Ignatius Press).	2001-04-02
US	51152827	R3IHZLGFOVRP5Z	089942242X	401942170	The New Saint Joseph Baltimore Catechism (No. 2)	Books	4	81	87	N	N	Some things should NEVER change	Such as dogma and doctrine of the Faith.  And we see this mentality reflected in the Baltimore Catechism.  While &quot;outdated&quot; in the sense that this book was compiled before Vatican II, which was almost 4 decades ago, this book is still entirely relevant for Catholics today.  The book is assembled as a series of questions and answers to a number of matters as it pertains to the faith of Catholic Christians.  This is the second book, which is targetted to children from middle school and up.  I am an adult (i.e.: over 18) and I still enjoy reading this Catechism. The answers are simple and straightforward, and I've found that working as a catechist (R.C.I.A. - Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults) that this book becomes a wonderful resource.  In addition, since this book has not been modified post-Vatican II, this is a favorite resource of traditionalist Catholics.  Overall, I think the book is a good resource for Catholics, the pictures break up what could be tedious reading (sorting through Q&amp;A) otherwise and add a unique &quot;flavor&quot; to this book that it would not otherwise have.	2001-03-21
US	51152827	R3VOVVJCBO89BJ	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Gripping tale but some major theological errors	There is no doubt that LaHaye and Jenkins weave a gripping tale here. The first two books are extremely well paced and action packed. The character development is extraordinary and very tastefully done. They are certainly characters that one could relate to.  However there are some problems with these books, if they are to be read as anything other than purely fiction (I say this because I know many people use these books as witnessing tools).  First, this book, as it has been stated, can be very offensive to Catholics.  As has also been pointed out, Jenkins and LaHaye do a very poor job of either understanding or conveying Catholic (and consequently mainstream Protestant) theology.  For instance, the only reason that the Pope is saved in the Rapture is because he converts to a Lutheran line of thinking.  Needless to say, the Catholic and Lutheran churches have similar lines of thought in eschatological theology, and both differ greatly from the evangelical viewpoint which is depicted in this book.  There are other points which indicate poor research of the Catholic theological position which could have easily been rectified.  These are unfortunately reasons for Catholics to put these books aside and pick up one which is more accurate and just as captivating (O'Brien's - Father Elijah - by Ignatius Press is one example).  In addition, it must be said that this series originally started as a trilogy, and as is evident, we're now on the sixth book with no end in sight.  This means that this is the last book which doesn't spend an enormous amount of time rehashing past episodes (books) to bring the reader back into the flow of the new books. This also means that this is the last book which is hard hitting and fast paced, as it appears the later books are more drawn-out to increase the amount of material for later books.  In my mind, this is the greatest pity about this series, because if it was shortened, it could have been an excellent, five-star series.  So, in conclusion: This is a great series to read if your an evangelical Christian, but I would please ask you to not let this book paint a picture of Catholicism which is untrue. This book is merely fiction so please don't let it sway you to believe things which are not true about other Christian denominations.  Also, do not expect this series to maintain the high state of action, and hence the quality that you will get accustomed to in these first two books.  It is a slow but steady decline from here on out.	2001-03-21
US	51152827	R2DYQMY5HYCWXA	0195282663	215706477	The NRSV Catholic Edition: Economy Edition: New Revised Standard Version	Books	4	68	74	N	N	A very good Catholic Bible	This Bible ranks right behind the NAB (in my opinion) as it pertains to Catholics who wish to have a complete Bible to read from.  I say complete because this version of the NRSV contains the deuterocanonicals (which non-Catholic Christians call the &quot;apocrypha&quot;), and has them listed amongst the books of the Old Testament instead of stuck in the back.  The NRSV is used by the Catholic Church in Canada for the Liturgy, and so all Canadians would find this Bible especially useful.  The Revised Standard Version (RSV) is an updating of the King James Bible, removing the Victorian language and updating the translation (the English language HAD developed over the almost 400 years since the KJV had been written) to make the Bible more readily accessible and understandable for today's reader.  The NEW Revised Standard Version (NRSV) is almost a totally different translation, and contains changes that may not be appreciated by some people.  The biggest difference between the NRSV and RSV is the use of &quot;gender-inclusive language&quot;.  Personally, I don't find this to be a problem, because if the text is meant to include both sexes then the appropriate words should be used to convey this in the translation.  Overall, I think this adds to the accuracy of the translation.<br />Now, as for this particular book. The softcover book is extremely sturdy. The paper is thin, but does not suffer from &quot;bleed-through&quot; if you decide to mark the book with notes or high-lighting. Another bonus of this book is the myriad of maps (64 in all) that pepper the book.  There are also over a dozen charts that are found in appropriate locations and serve as useful references.  In addition, the softcover version contains a papal encyclical which speaks about the importance of the Bible and the serious study of it that Catholics should do (in direct contrast to the fallacious anti-Catholic claim that Catholics are told NOT to read the Bible).	2001-03-21
US	51152827	R101388V3H3UWL	0899428703	815092166	Lives of the Saints for Every Day of the Year/No. 870/22	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Beautiful Catholic Encyclopedia of Saints...	... that corresponds with the Catholic Churches Liturgical Calendar. First published in 1955, this book is relevant even today, and it's look gives it an antique look which inspires one to respect the simple and pious attitude that one should bring into prayer. The saints are listed in alphabetical order in the &quot;Contents&quot; listing of the book, and then can be read in chronological order, from January 1 through December 31. Each day has the saint whose feast day is celebrated that day. Details into the saints life is listed, and the length is dependent on how much is actually known about that particular saint. It can range for a paragraph for the lesser known saints (for instance St. Fabias), up to a couple of pages for more predominantly known saints (for instance St. Basil or Saint Thomas the Apostle). Each saint reading is then finished off with a Church approved prayer to each saint which can then be prayed alone or with others. This book is an excellent resource for people who wish to bring a daily reflection into their lives, and the saints, models of virtue and piety are a great focal point for these reflections. The saints can serve as role-models for the lives that we should lead. I think this book does an excellent job of conveying that message.  Another bonus to this book is its illustrations of a number of the saints, fitting a face to a story.	2001-03-21
US	51152827	R2JL62165ZY7XX	0895550660	541500934	The Incorruptibles: A Study of the Incorruption of the Bodies of Various Catholic Saints and Beati	Books	3	38	42	N	N	Interesting stories	Incorruptibles, published by TAN Books, documents 102 cases of saints and beatified who have been shown to have bodies that have not decayed.  Some of these saints (like in the case of St. Francis Xavier) literally were placed in extreme conditions, very conducive to decay and bodily destruction, but remained intact.  Each case is carefully researched (which is a very strong suit of this book) and well-documented (102 cases in 310 pages). Each case is presented with a short review of the saints life (where applicable) and the case for &quot;incorruption&quot; (i.e.: conditions of burial, etc).  The downside of this book however is that there are very few pictures of the bodies.  I think that with all the research done in this book, that a few more pictures, and more close-up shots of the ones that were taken would have made this book an even better resource. As it stands, the lack of pictures and close-ups is what knocks this book down to 3 stars.	2001-03-20
US	51152827	R262BEY7ZWM5HZ	1885217722	785472998	New American Standard Bible	Books	5	181	190	N	N	One of the best translations out there.	The NASB is in the forefront of Biblical scholarship, and if you want to own only one copy of the Bible (word for word translation) and you are a non-Catholic Christian, then I would tell you to seriously consider this version (I would point Catholics towards the NRSV or NAB).  The NASB does not use inclusive language, it is a very strict interpretation but flows smoothly, and also tends to favor the traditional phrasing.<br />The NASB has traditionally been awarded the title of &quot;the most literally accurate translation&quot;, and while I don't believe this to be 100% accurate, I think it's close on the mark. The NASB does benefit from excellent scholarship, and from major advances in Biblical discovery from the last few decades. Throw in the benefit of the cost of this Bible, which is very inexpensive, and you have an excellent Bible to use for a long time.  In addition, the concordance at the back of this bible is frosting on the cake.	2001-03-20
US	51152827	R25KY0YMJO2ILL	068482504X	265369601	Joshua and the Shepherd	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Strong ecumenical message	Like all of Joseph Girzone's books, Joshua and the Shepherd is extremely well written.  It is easy to read (excellent prose), and Girzone weaves such a detailed story that it is hard not to get swept up in the flow of the story. This book is definitely a story about the universal love of Jesus (Joshua) for all of His creation.  The book is definitely idealistic in its ecumenical storyline (different denominations establishing a strong single community), but Girzone does leave one with the impression that there is definitely hope for such a possibility if people truly listen to the Word.  Overall, I liked the book. Being an advocate of ecumenism myself (though I must state that I would not want unity by sacrificing Truth) I could relate to this book and thougth the message was truly inspiring.  My one problem with the book however was that at times, Girzone writes so simply, you feel as if the book was actually written for grade schoolers.  Then again, perhaps it wouldn't be such a bad idea to expose children to this message (the one of ecumenism) anyways.	2001-03-20
US	51152827	R2WTF6RPLT3M0A	0840713657	406452308	Compact Personal Gift And Award Bible-snap Flap-nab	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Catholic Bible	The NAB is perhaps the best Bible to own for American Catholics. It is the Bible that is used for the Liturgy for the Church in the United States of America (Canada uses the NRSV).  The imitation leather is durable, and is sturdy enough to place into a Bible cover. The binding is very strong, and allows Bible tabs (cords - the long flat strings that you then use as bookmarks) to be slipped down into the binding. The pages are of thin paper, which cuts down on the thickness of the Bible, but it is very crisp and does not bleed through if you use a highlighter or pen to take notes.<br />A bonus of the NAB is that is has a very exhaustive cross-direct quotations of another verse, or explain a particular verse. In addition, the NAB has very good footnotes which explain a lot of the more difficult verses.  Of course it should be noted that the NAB is a Catholic Bible so the footnotes in places will have a Catholic &quot;bias&quot; to them.  However most of the footnotes have to deal with cultural and historical information which may not be readily known by the reader. The final highlight of the NAB is that each book of the Bible comes with an opening summary of each book. Important information such as who wrote the book, when it was written, what audience was being address, what the central theme of the particular book is and what was happening during the times that the book was written is all contained in these summaries.  The only drawback to the NAB is that it does not contain a concordance, however with the cross-referencing, this is not as much of a problem.<br />The durability of this book, the excellent construction and the beauty of the imitation leather make this an ideal &quot;Gift Bible&quot;, perfect for first communions and confirmations, or any other occassion where one wishes to give the gift of the Word.	2001-03-20
US	51152827	R3PKIH8CPANY2Z	0939516004	661495921	Twelve and One Half Keys	Books	1	3	14	N	Y	I guess I'm not mystical enough...	... because I thought this book was terrible.  If you like an author to get to the point, or even to tell you what he's thinking (even if it takes half the book to get to that point), you'll be disappointed, because the stories in this book get odder and odder.  Calling them abstract would be an understatement, and one will feel as if they're lying down on a couch speaking to a psychiatrist.  Hays tries to get you to come to conclusions by asking yourself questions and seeking the answers within you.  Which might not be such a bad idea, if you knew what the heck the stories in this book were half-way about.  I was not impressed.  The stories were way off the wall, and I just didn't have the patience to sit there and tease out whatever glimmer of personal reflection these stories might represent for me.<br />To be truthful, I bought the book because John J. Pilch was affiliated with it.  I tried and tried to find out how he was responsible for this book, but there isn't even a foreword by him, and I couldn't see if he wrote any of the stories or not. Pilch is a Christian, and so I was hoping that this book would be Christian in nature... it isn't as far as I can tell. But then again, I couldn't tell much from this book anyways.	2001-03-19
US	51152827	R1BAU2DR1PRKXE	0892436719	887864319	Handbook for Today's Catholic: Fully Indexed to the Catechism of the Catholic Church (A Redemptorist Pastoral Publication)	Books	4	54	55	N	N	Excellent Catechesis Resource	The Handbook for Today's Catholic is a wonderful resource for those who wish to learn more about their Catholic faith, and have a hard time reading through the Universal Catechism of the Catholic Church (which is not light reading). This handbook is fully indexed to the Catechism, which affords an easy read along with the exact wording of the Catholic Church.<br />The handbook is broken down into four sections. The first section is entitled &quot;Beliefs&quot; and gives a quick review of all the essential doctrine and dogma of the Church.  The second section is entitled &quot;Practices&quot; and reviews the commandments, the precepts of the Church, the sacraments, liturgical seasons, etc. The third section is entitled &quot;Prayers&quot; and lists a number of more often used prayers by Catholics. It also has an explanation and review of community prayer and meditative prayer, along with suggestions for how to successfully employ meditative prayer. The final section is entiled &quot;Living the Faith in the Spirit of Vatican II&quot; and talks about how Catholics are a the living embodiment of God here on earth. We are God's people, and accordingly, we should act like it. It talks about God in Scripture, how we worship as a community through the Liturgy and the Sacraments, how we are stewards of God's property, how we are to deal with vocations, social justice issues and evangelization.<br />Overall it is a very thorough book, and covers the essentials in a condensed form in such a way that no other book to date has been able to do. If you are a Catholic who truly wishes to know more about your Catholic faith, this is an excellent book to study and meditate on.  If you are a non-Catholic and wish to learn about the Catholic Church, you can turn to this book for some straight-forward and easy answers.	2001-03-16
US	51152827	RGQFOS9VKXBEZ	0884861511	309231735	The Collected Works of C.S. Lewis	Books	5	70	71	N	N	What a bargain!	For the cost of this book, I would have gladly paid the same price for &quot;God in the Dock&quot; alone.  Yet, with this compilation, you get &quot;God in the Dock&quot; along with two other CS Lewis classics.  The Pilgrim's Regress is a fictional story with an autobiographical twist. The main character, John, is in search for his island, something he has been drawn to his entire life, but never could quite put &quot;his finger on it&quot;.  Knowing CS Lewis' past, and how he went from atheist to Christian, and you'll see this book reflects his own personal struggles as he searched for the truth.  Christian Reflections (14 essays) and God in the Dock (48 essays) are compilations of a plethora of essays CS Lewis has written on a large number of issues.  From the justifiability of war (CS Lewis wrote a large number of essays during the World War II period), to answers to atheistic questions, ethics, prayer, common theological questions and church music, Clive Staples Lewis leaves no stone unturned. The Pilgrims Regress is a perfect introduction to CS Lewis, and will get you geared up for the theologically heavier fare that you will get with the other two books.  Reading the two other essay driven books is easy, once you get accustomed to CS Lewis' mannerisms, and the essays vary anywhere from 4 to 5 pages in length, to 20 or more. The prose is rich, and CS Lewis is one of the greatest Christian authors of all time, and after reading this compliation, you'll know why.	2001-03-14
US	51152827	R1XILTK6MBUVOG	0060611251	892400651	On the Road with the Archangel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Another Buechnerian classic	&quot;On the Road With the Archangel&quot;, is in my opinion, one of Frederick Buechners best books.  It is based on the Book of Tobit, which in the Catholic Bible is one of the deuterocanonicals and to the Protestants is one of the apocryphal books.  Though Buechner is not Catholic, he treats the Book of Tobit with a reverence that is greatly appreciated, and he shows for Protestants that even though they do not recognize these books, that valuable lessons can be learned from them.  Frederick Buechner, like he did with the &quot;Son of Laughter&quot;, fleshes out the characters like only he can do.  After a few minutes one can already begin to relate to the characters, and as with every good book, when it is over, you'll feel as if a good, close friend has moved away.  Not only has Buechner transformed the Book of Tobit into an easy to read storyline, he takes us to an ancient time and has us instantly recognize the problems the characters face as problems we encounter as well.  Not satisfied with just a simple story, Buechner takes us into a soul-searching journey along with Tobias (the main character) and forces us to analyze our own relationship with God.  Do we realize our relationship with God in the proper light, do we recognize His love for us and how He views His creation in a proper light?  I think Buechner does an excellent job of shining a light on the answers to these questions.<br />Definitely a great book to sit down with and enjoy.  I would recommend it to any Christian.	2001-03-13
US	51152827	R2G5OVO76RPK5K	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Catch CS Lewis at his best	The is truly a Christian classic.  In this book, CS Lewis gives you a glimpse of hell, and a glimpse within your own soul in ways that will have you relating completely to the characters.  CS Lewis does a magnificent job of illustrating the denials and rationalizations that are faced by society, and even though this book was written decades ago, one can see the timelessness of his message.  One must be ever vigilant! It is an insightful commentary on our human nature and often our obsession with being self-centered.  Without you knowing it, CS Lewis touches on some basic theological issues, but without what some would consider his usual &quot;headiness&quot;. This book, along with The Screwtape Letters can serve as a good introduction to the writings of C.S. Lewis.	2001-03-13
US	51152827	R20RLEBMZ68Q4G	0529064847	925558508	The New American Bible (With the Revised Book of Psalms and the Revised New Testament)	Books	5	319	331	N	N	The Bible for the Catholic Church in the USA	This it the Bible translation (known as the NAB) that is used in the Liturgy of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church (i.e.: first and second readings, psalms and the Gospel) in the United States of America (Canada uses the New Revised Standard Version - NRSV).<br />It is a very easy to read translation, and is truly a translation, as the scholars who compiled the New American translation did so from Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek texts. This is unlike other Catholic translations, which have often worked from the Latin text of the Latin Vulgate. In the foreword, it talks about how the oldest and best-known and supportable texts were used in the writing of this translation, making it one of the best historical translations you can find.<br />Since it is a Catholic Bible, it contains the deuterocanonical books, which non-Catholic's erroneously call the &quot;Apocrypha&quot; (i.e.: I say erroneous because apocrypha means hidden, and these books are far from hidden).<br />Each book of the Bible contains the history of that book. Such information included is who was responsible for writing the book (when available), the period in which it was written, and the purpose and intent of the book.  Along with this foreward, the each book contains extensive footnotes to assist the reader in understanding particular phrases and/or the historical context. It also contains cross-referencing material which will point the reader in the direction of other related scriptural verses.<br />As a pointer, this translation can also be found online by visiting the National Conference of Catholic Bishops at the United States Catholic Conference website.  You will be able to read the text there and decide if this is a translation you would want to purchase.  As a Catholic, I would highly recommend it to all other American Catholics.	2001-03-09
US	51152827	R1ENQJQNSV4CCU	0814622887	7540511	The Cultural World of Jesus: Sunday by Sunday, Cycle C	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Excellent RCIA tool	The Cultural World of Jesus is written as three books.  Each book is based on the Catholic Latin Rite lectionary, with each book representing one year of Catholic teaching on the Gospels. These books contain essays on the gospel for each week, which puts everything in the perspective of the mediterranean culture.  These books are very good for Catholics who wish to have a deeper understanding of the Gospels, and wish to have some reading material to help their weekly Scripture study.  It is also an excellent resource for RCIA team members or potential converts, to gain a good insight into the Jesus' culture and consequently the direction of His teachings.  I do not know how useful these books would be for someone who was not a Catholic however. The A,B, and C Cycle system is not a straight run-through of the Gospels, as each week in the Liturgical calendar has a specific and special meaning and consequently the Gospel story for that week corresponds.  However, just for the cultural reflection itself these books are worth what you pay.  In addition, John Pilch has a very light style of writing, and does not get caught up in theological jargon.  Each week is represented by a two to four page essay, making scripture study very easy and enlightening.	2001-03-08
US	51152827	R2BLZL4BSJNAC	0814622879	501151448	The Cultural World Of Jesus: Sunday By Sunday, Cycle B (Bestseller! the Cultural World of Jesus: Sunday by Sunday)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A very good RCIA resource	This book, like the cycle A and C books, deals with the Gospel readings for the Cycle B year of the Latin Rite Catholic lectionary.  It gives pertinent information on the Mediteranean culture and the times in which Jesus lived.  This allows us a deeper insight into Jesus' teachings, and their meanings.  This is therefore, a very valuable resource for those working in RCIA, adult education, religious education or for someone who just wants a deeper understanding of the Gospels.  Each week is covered by an essay ranging from two to four pages in length. It is written in very easy to understand language making the whole learning process easier andmore enjoyable.  I highly recommend this set of books.	2001-03-06
US	51152827	R35GJ3BZ3ETA0Z	076480488X	646324286	The Essential Catholic Prayer Book: A Collection of Private and Community Prayers (Redemptorist Pastoral Publication)	Books	5	104	105	N	N	Essential Indeed!	This book is a lovely compendium of centuries of Catholic tradition in the form of prayer.  The book starts off with an introduction to prayer, why we pray, why we should pray, how prayer is found in both the Old and New Testaments and how we can overcome difficulties to prayer.  The book ends with a brief &quot;manual&quot; of ways to pray;  whether it be praying at a certain time of day, reflective prayer while studying an aspect of life (be it physical or spiritual), different types of prayer (thanksgiving, intercession, contritiion, etc etc).<br />Between these two chapters are 250 prayers that are steeped in Catholic tradition.  Prayers range from everyday prayers known to every Catholic (Our Father, Glory Be, Hail Mary, Apostles Creed), to prayers to Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, prayers to Mary and the Saints and prayers for specific intentions (for the sick, confessional, before/during/after the Mass).  There are a number of devotionals and litanies in the book which I found especially spiritual, as well as some of the more well-known chaplets (prayers using rosary-beads as a structure for the prayer) and novenas.<br />Overall, this is one of the most complete books I've ever read on the topic of prayer.  It was well worth the ...  I paid for it, and I've spiritually recouped my expense with the first week of use of this book.  For someone who relies on structured prayer, this book will be invaluable and will offer some nice tips and guides to help nurture your prayer life.  I would (and do) highly recommend this book for anyone who wishes to deepen their prayer life.  I think this book would also make a great gift.	2001-02-22
US	51152827	R2TUF4UM08CGB9	0552132888	502876176	In God's Name: An Investigation into the Murder of Pope John Paul I	Books	1	21	51	N	N	How serious can you take a book...	... that brags about antagonizing the very subject (The Catholic Church) of the book itself?  Second, how can you take seriously, a &quot;investigstive reporter&quot; when he cannot even reveal any of the sources that he uses for what he claims are the more &quot;damaging claims&quot; that he makes?  Rather than investigative reporting, this book is conspiracy theory laden and one wonders how many times Mr. Yallop has contributed articles to the Enquirer.  He has no proof whatsoever about a true motive inside the Church.  His accusations against Opus Dei are entirely unfounded. He blames everyone from the head of the Vatican Bank to the Masonry, without producing a shred of evidence.<br />This appears to be just one of a series of books written by authors who have an overall disdain for the Catholic Church. If you want to read an investigative report that doesn't cite any sources (sort of like looking at a ton of tv expose' when everyone is blacked out and their voices muffled so you can barely understand them) then this book is for you.  If you prefer something that befits your intellect, don't waste your time on this book.	2001-01-23
US	51152827	RC45L4IRJRP93	0060611561	489904889	Telling the Truth: The Gospel as Tragedy, Comedy, and Fairy Tale	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Guide to Christian Preaching	&quot;The Gospel is bad news before it is good news. It is the news that man is a sinner... That is the tragedy. But it is also the news that he is loved anyway, cherished, forgiven.... That is the comedy.... In answer, the news of the Gospel is that extraordinary things happen to him just as in fairy tales extraordinary things happen.&quot;<br />And that is the basis for Frederick Buechner's book. That as evangelists we need to remember that the Bible is more than just a book, it starts as tragedy, it becomes so outrageous to be comedic and then amongst it all, God loves us so much that it's a fairy tale. And as with all fairy tales, that all who accept the outcome, the ending is happy.  And we must keep all those things in mind.  And preach the Bible with love.<br />Frederick Buechner uses a number of &quot;secular&quot; works to illustrate his points.  He points to the tragedy of &quot;King Lear&quot; by Shakespeare, he goes over the fairy tale sof C.S Lewis' &quot;The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe&quot; and Frank Baum's &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;.<br />To illustrate the comedy of the Bible, he turns to the Bible itself, going over the promise of God to Abraham and Sarah about the birth of Isaac, and how they laughed... the idea seemed so preposterous.  And it does seem preposterous in a way, the promises of the Bible... so outrageous as to be almost impossible to believe.  And that is why the Bible turns out to be fairy tale, because what is &quot;too good to be true&quot; isn't. It happens, and it happens to us.<br />Buechner writes with colorful prose, but you won't get lost in the verbiage and his meaning will come out crystal clear.  He conveys to us a message that speaks to us and tells us to speak the Word with urgency, and do it emphatically, colorfully, just as the Bible is colorful itself.  Do it with compassion, do it with love and do it with inspiration.<br />&quot;Let the preacher tell the truth. Let him make audible the silence of the news of the world with the sound turned off so that in that silence we can hear the tragic truth of the Gospel, which is that the world where God is absent is a dark and echoing emptiness; and the comic truth of the Gospel, which is into the depths of his absence that God makes himself present in such unlikely ways and to such unlikely people... you and I laugh till the tears run down our cheeks. And finally let him preach this overwhelming of tragedy by comedy, of darkness by light, of the ordinary by the extraordinary, as the tale that is too good not to be true because to dismiss it as untrue is to dismiss along with it the catch of the breath, that beat and lifting of the heart near to or even accompanied by tears, which I believe is the deepest intuition of truth that we have.&quot;	2001-01-22
US	51152827	R1AY1N85IYH39N	0895551586	993267612	The Faith of Our Fathers: A Plain Exposition and Vindication of the Church Founded by Our Lord Jesus Christ	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A precise definition of the Catholic position	The first edition of this book was written in 1876, and the fact that you can still buy it today, and that millions of these books have been sold (over 4 million copies), are testament to the vibrancy and truth that is contained within this book.<br />In an age when Catholicism was the &quot;new kid on the block&quot; in America, Cardinal Gibbons, an Archbiship of Chicago, wrote this book to inform and educate non-Catholics on the biblical soundness of the Catholic Church. This book also has proven to be a highly rewarding read for the Catholic as well, who can always use a bit of a reminder of their faith.  In addition, this is an excellent resource for apologists. The answers are clear, concise and contain scriptural support for each position.  Granted, some of the material (as it relates to Cardinal Gibbons when he refers to the present-day world) is out-dated, but this is not a problem throughout the whole book (maybe a couple of references to the &quot;present day&quot; will need some research since they did happen over a century ago).<br />For those who wish to seriously inquire about the Catholic Church, this book should be able to answer most (if not all) of your questions.  For those who wish to have an excellent tool available to defend and proclaim the legitimacy of the Catholic Church, this book will lend you that support and defense.  However, people wishing to learn more about Marian doctrine should not go to this book to find those answers... why?  Because this book does not spend much time talking about these matters.<br />So what topics are covered?  The priesthood, celibacy, temporal power of the popes (necessity), infallibility, purgatory and scripture are a few of the topics this book covers.	2001-01-15
US	51152827	R1E96AIWEOEJX	0898708095	419879999	Science and Evidence for Design in the Universe (The Proceedings of the Wethersfield Institute Vol. 9)	Books	5	234	285	N	N	A Primer on Intelligent Design	This book is a compliation of three essays (first 113 pages) which study the possibility of intelligent design from a physics, mathematical and philosophical aspect. The remainder of the book (approximately an additional 80 pages) make up the appendix which supplies three additional essays which speak about Intelligent Design and seek to address specific criticisms against this theory. The first appendix, entitled Answering Scientific Criticisms of Intelligent Design, is written by Michael Behe, a biochemist, and is possibly the best chapter of the entire book. For a primer on what \\"intelligent design\\" is considered to be by its proponents, this book would suffice. I would highly recommend this book to those who are interested in this subject.	2001-01-11
US	51152827	R30MALAXAAH3JB	0822003910	70610680	Dante's Divine Comedy: The Inferno (Cliffs Notes)	Books	3	18	28	N	N	A Cliff Note review?!?!	Well, it's odd to write a review for a set of Cliff Notes, but I'll make an exception in this case. People often equate buying Cliff Notes with kids who have to read a book and want to actually get OUT of reading the book.  However, I bought Dante's Divine Comedy: The Inferno for leisure reading (actually I like the theological implications that Dante ponders in the writing of his poem) and the Cliff Notes have become quite useful.  The Notes start out with a general background of Dante, giving a mini biography of the author.  Throughout this sketch they allude to a number of instances in his life which will come into play in his work The Divine Comedy.  They then go on with an overall synposis of The Inferno.  After that they go into a full-out commentary on the work itself.<br />I picked up the Cliff Notes at the same time I bought my copy of The Divine Comedy.  Why?  Well, I didn't want to miss a thing. I read for fun, but I also try with the books I truly enjoy, to read critically.  Knowing that the copy of The Inferno was actually a translation from the latin meant that since I cannot read latin, that there would be certain nuances of the language that I may miss out on when reading it in english.  Hence, I am relying on the Cliff Notes (which I read AFTER I finish a particular section) to point out these instances to me.  I can then go back and re-read the section and gain the deeper insight into the poem itself.  Used as a supplement (not as the source itself, which unfortunately happens with many users of Cliff Notes) this has proven to be a nice tool.  It is by no means absolutely necessary (my copy of The Inferno comes with its own commentary... I have the Bantam issue of Dante's Divine Comedy) but it is nice to have on hand when there are sections that are a bit 'heavy'.  I will not go into the book itself here in this review, since this is the Cliff Notes, but instead I'll tackle that in a review of the book itself.  Overall, I think the Cliff Notes area nice addition, something to have next to the armchair when reading the actual book.  The only downside... the Cliff Notes cost almost as much ($4.95) as the book itself ($5.95).	2000-12-29
US	51152827	RLQLSA9Y7A7J6	0892432209	443172108	Catholic Answers to Fundamentalist Questions	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A good Catholic Apologetics Primer...	As a Catholic who has a hobby of doing apologetics work, I found that this book helped out immensely.  The questions answered in this book are standard fare (ie: these are the questions that you are most likely going to be asked by Protestants who inquire about the Catholic faith - and as such, it is a useful tool for those that work in RCIA or Inquiry courses within the Catholic Church). The answers are short, to the point and are supported by Scripture and the Catechism of the Catholic Church.  For those who think this book is an attempt to &quot;go on the offensive&quot; do not fear. The book is written with an ecumenical approach, an attempt to honestly answer, honest questions asked in good faith. The author admits to writing this book after having had to answer these questions from Protestant friends time and time again.<br />A bonus to the book is its cost, which is very inexpensive. It is not meant to be a comprehensive guide to the entire Catholic faith, but it does set a nice foundation. It's a handy book to have on hand for those times that you're asked a question, or you're looking for a short concise answer to a common question.	2000-11-20
US	51152827	R3G91SWCCOCKMB	0842329269	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind No. 5)	Books	2	19	23	N	N	Oh no, not another one....	Wasn't this series supposed to be completed by now?  When this series first started, it was fast-paced, intriguing, had a great story line and was an excellent read.  It was also supposed to only be a trilogy.  Well, by the second book it was obvious that it wasn't going to be a trilogy and by the fourth book I don't think anyone knew exactly how many books there really would be in this series.<br />So now we find ourselves at the fifth book, and frankly not much has changed in the past three books.  The first third of the book is spent reviewing what happened in the last book of the series, and then the remaining two-thirds is spent dragging along trying to extend the plot so this series can last for what seems like eternity.<br />I liken this series to a great athlete that does not retire until his career falls totally apart.  This book had the potential to be &quot;Hall of Fame&quot; material, but with the dragging on of the series the books have lost their edge and I'm afraid all that people will remember are the last set of books in this series.  They are no longer fast paced like the first two were, the plot is continually reiterated (probably so people can remember what the whole series is about) and the character development has halted entirely.<br />One wonders whether the authors have any idea how these books are going to end as well!  Which might not be so bad if it wasn't supposed to be a trilogy!	2000-11-20
US	51152827	R2HRPBA086WWG5	0879733470	685518638	The Catholic Answer Book of Mary	Books	5	43	46	N	N	A Marian Apologetics Compendium	This book is a compendium of sorts, drawing from the combined knowledge of over 25 well-known Catholic authors/apologists (Sugensis, Stravinskas and Armstrong for instance). The book is 29 chapters of Catholic doctrine, devotionals, evangelization guides and stories. It is extremely well-written, easy to read and since each chapter is authored by a different contributor the book does not get monotonous. The apologetics work is easy to understand and is spread out so the reader does not get bombarded all at once. If one wants to buy a book to help them in their apologetics work that revolves around explaining Marian doctrine, this is the book I would point them to first.	2000-11-16
US	51152827	R1TVEJU6TR6Y9P	0764801228	534804165	Behold the Star: Daily Refelctions and Prayers for Advent Cycles A, B and C	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A good daily Advent reflection source	&quot;Behold the Star&quot; is a good Catholic Bible study supplement. It covers all three liturgical cycles [A/B/C], and gives reflections for each day of the Advent season (almost a month long). Each day lists the readings (first, second and Gospel) for that day along with a reflection portion for personal review.<br />For those that wish to have a reflection based Bible study (or would like to move in that direction) for the Advent season, I think this book would help you achieve that. However each day is only partly represented (under a page for each) and you may want to add additional material if you're afraid that people may rely on the book too much.<br />Overall though, it appears to be one of the more thorough Advent-based Catholic Bible study sources on the market, and a big plus is that this one book will last you for as long as the liturgical cycles stay fixed.	2000-11-16
US	51152827	R495YCA5XDM7E	1888992085	416316570	Refuting the Attack on Mary: A Defense of Marian Doctrines	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A condensed review of Marian Doctrine	Father Mateo was the pen name of a Catholic Priest who hosted the &quot;Ask Father&quot; forum on the Catholic Information Network until his death in 1996. This book was written as a direct rebuttal to a two-part article entitled &quot;The Mary of Roman Catholicism&quot; printed up in the Christian Research Institute Journal in 1990. Father Mateo hits many of the theological points of Marian doctrine in this book, though it would be nice to have a copy of the two CRI articles mentioned in this book. If you are not familiar with Marian doctrine, this book does not give you time to catch the basics, and it can get quite heady at time. If you have been &quot;down this road before&quot; though, this book will be fast paced. Though it is a direct rebuttal to a duo of CRI articles, this book can be used by Catholic apologists when discussing Marian doctrine, as the book is quite comprehensive. However, if you are looking for a slower paced, easier to read Catholic Apologetics book based on Marian Doctrine, I would recommend &quot;The Catholic Answer Book of Mary&quot; by Peter Stravinskas instead.	2000-11-16
US	51152827	R1EY09SCY5G2D3	0898708028	581816706	One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic: The Early Church Was the Catholic Church	Books	5	86	90	N	N	A dramatic and accurate view of the Early Church	This book's focus is on the Early Catholic Church and covers five  primary areas in five huge chapters (the book itself is a soft covered book of over 300 pages). The topics covered are 1. The Church of the Apostles, 2. The Church of the Early Church Fathers, 3. The Church of the First Four Great Councils, 4. The Primacy of Rome in the Early Church and 5. The Early Church Was the Catholic Church.<br />This book is an excellent read, some of it being in story form which makes it an easier and more interesting read than some other apologetic material. It is strongly rooted in history, presenting historical facts to prove that the Catholic Church of today is a direct descendent of the Early Church of the time of the Apostles.<br />I would recommend this book for anyone who is involved in Catholic Apologetics, or who would like to learn more about the Early Church. It draws upon a huge source of early Church literature, it develops a very interesting picture of the Early Church and ties them all together to give us the Catholic Church we have today.	2000-11-15
US	51152827	R2E3TS7W4SVYKY	0814613012	244574501	Gospel According to Matthew (Collegeville Bible Commentary Series) (Vol 1)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Catholic Commentaries	The Collegeville Commentary series is a Catholic set of commentaries for the books of the Bible. Most of the commentaries are individual (ie: one commentary for one book of the Bible), and the commentary on Matthew is one of those. When I say that it is a Catholic commentary, I mean that it is written by someone of the Catholic faith, and as such all interpretation will be done from the Catholic standpoint. The commentary is a paperback book of over 100 pages. The top portion of each page contains the actual Biblical verses, while the lower portion of each page contains the commentary. The two are easily delineated, and the format is not confusing. Another nice feature to the individual books (like this one) as compared to the compendium (you can buy the Old or New Testament commentaries as single books) is that these contain pictures of sites important to Jesus' ministry, and where appropriate maps of the areas as well. Also, the compendiums do not have the Biblical verses but only contain the commentaries (presumably to save space). The cost of these books is relatively cheap and if you only need a commentary on a book or two of the Bible these are much cheaper to buy than large bulky commentaries. If you want the whole set though, I suggest you buy the compilations of the OT and NT, which though they lack the pictures found in the single books are much reduced in cost.  Overall, these are very good books to learn from and read if you are a Catholic.  It is one of the very few &quot;Catholic Commentaries&quot; that you can find that covers the entire Bible.	2000-10-14
US	51152827	RLTS5WZN4RNN1	0879739266	175582079	The Twelve: The Lives of the Apostles After Calvary	Books	5	94	97	N	N	An indepth documentary...	... for the Christian who also happens to be a history buff. This book attempts to address the question &quot;What happened to all of the Apostles after Jesus died?&quot;<br />The book is divided into chapters which address each Apostle. Drawing from the New Testament, each chapter provides detail on each Apostle and his role in Jesus' ministry, it also attempts to give a character analysis (personality, etc) on each Apostle. The book then tries to give a full indepth history on what each Apostle did based on extra-biblical sources (for example Eusebuis' &quot;History of the Church&quot;). The book also relies on local stories that are generated on each Apostle (for example St. Thomas and his ministry in India). It is in no-way a definitive history on each apostle, but it does try to give a fully detailed history given the limited amount of material. The prose is excellent, making this a very easy-to-read book. For anyone who is interested in the history of the Christian Church, and would like to read up more on the Apostles, I would highly recommend this book.	2000-10-05
US	51152827	R1O4B1IKS1OXUG	0814622860	501151448	The Cultural World of Jesus: Sunday By Sunday, Cycle A	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Excellent book for religious education	This series of books (there is one for each cycle [A/B/C] of the Catholic Liturgy) prove very useful for religious education and RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults) classes. Each week of the year is represented, with each week having a homily based on the gospel (NOTE: the essays are concerned ONLY with the Gospel reading, and not the 1st or 2nd readings for that same liturgical week) reading for that week. Each essay(homily) attempts to give the reader a feel for the Mediterranean culture that was representative of the palestinian region that Jesus inhabited during His ministry. These books will give the reader invaluable insight into Jesus' times and culture and will be sure to give the reader a better look at Jesus' parables and what they meant for people at that time. It is also a nice tool for people to have to supplement their weekly Bible study, as people can follow the liturgical year at home on their own or in a group (which makes this book an excellent resource for Bible study groups).	2000-10-05
US	51152827	R38Z64JXN59SV0	0814622860	501151448	The Cultural World of Jesus: Sunday By Sunday, Cycle A	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Excellent book for religious education	This series of books (there is one for each cycle [A/B/C] of the Catholic Liturgy) prove very useful for religious education and RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults) classes. Each week of the year is represented, with each week having a homily based on the gospel (NOTE: the essays are concerned ONLY with the Gospel reading, and not the 1st or 2nd readings for that same liturgical week) reading for that week. Each essay(homily) attempts to give the reader a feel for the Mediterranean culture that was representative of the palestinian region that Jesus inhabited during His ministry. These books will give the reader invaluable insight into Jesus' times and culture and will be sure to give the reader a better look at Jesus' parables and what they meant for people at that time. It is also a nice tool for people to have to supplement their weekly Bible study, as people can follow the liturgical year at home on their own or in a group (which makes this book an excellent resource for Bible study groups).	2000-10-05
