US	51150291	RXBRIVGFJMUX4	0072434228	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Janie's Journey	Janie's retrospective story begins with her childhood and unfolds through her marriages to three very different men. As a reader, I was charmed by her girlhood dreams of love only to see them dashed by an arranged, albeit safe, marriage. I gradually began to understand her struggle against familial and social expectations in order to strike a fine balance between personal happiness and the type of love she has always dreamed of. She is unable to do so under the subjugation of her first two husbands. It is only with Tea Cake that she finally discovers acceptance of herself, the ability to exercise a good amount of free will, and as near an equal partnership as she has ever known.  <br /> <br />Their Eyes Were Watching God is an interesting story because the narrative changes in an almost inconspicuous manner. There is a third-person narrative that is interwoven with Janie's personal telling of her story to her best friend Phoeby. The narrative changes succeed in not jarring the flow of her story which never ceases to entertain, amuse, and move the reader.  <br /> <br />Hurston's story is lyrical once you accept the cadence of Janie's voice. The author's acute sense of dialogue is really what embroils the reader in Janie's story. The dialogue between characters is a passport to a world where people sat talking on porches and seemed to live a hand-to-mouth existence. The use of this near-dialect by the characters, especially Janie, personalizes the story and draws us into their world of hard-living and simple fun. By the end, the reader will have lived through the story with no regrets just like its heroine.	2005-03-03
US	51150291	RU1498RLBO8CD	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	10	12	N	N	If time means nothing	In Audrey Niffenegger's stunning debut novel, everything hinges on faith, love, hope, and timing in order to combat fate, foreshadowing, tragedy, and sorrow.<br />Henry DeTamble is a man plagued by what will become known as Chrono-Displacement Disorder. This means he will be snatched out of one time and arrive in another, usually within his own lifespan. There are always two things he can count on when this happens. The first is that he will arrive without anything. The second is that he can never bring anything back with him. The only thing he returns with are his memories of what occur. When he is not time-traveling and doing what he can to survive, Henry is a librarian who, at the age of 28, is trying to lead a normal life.<br />At 20, Clare Abshire is a paper artist who is already in love with the librarian she meets while doing a research paper. In fact, she has been waiting for Henry who has never even known of her existence. But the truth is, Henry has known Clare since she was six years old. She has provided him with food and clothing all through her childhood while he helped her with her homework and gave her some foreknowledge of her own future.<br />The Time Traveler's Wife is a moving story about a love that crosses the boundaries of time and space. It leaves you wondering about all the possibilities and why it was meant to unfold the way it did. Henry and Clare's love for each other is the constant that the rest of the story revolves around. The story is told simply and well. None of the characters overindulges themselves with self-pity or histrionics. In fact, despite the title, the story almost completely reflects the fatalistic attitude that encroaches upon the hero as he makes the most of his existence.	2003-11-12
US	51150291	R8DI45DDKH8L2	0786805684	394193021	Ella Fitzgerald: The Tale of a Vocal Virtuosa	Books	5	7	7	N	N	the first lady of song	The Pinkney couple's biography on Ella Fitzgerald is a delightful read for young children who want to learn more about the talented jazz artist. The use of narrator Scat Cat Monroe as a device to engage children is successful especially due to his use of language. The rhymes and rhythms the authors adopt to tell the story echo the snazziness of the music at the time. Young readers will thoroughly enjoy getting to know more about the artist Fitzgerald through this story.	2003-02-18
US	51150291	RSY0RX70D2GUX	0446525537	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A book that explores the depth of love	In the year 1998, a fifty-seven year old man reflects briefly on the spring that changed his life four decades ago. When he was seventeen, Landon Carter spent most of his time escaping impending adulthood by hanging out with his irresponsible friends and hanging around with them at the local graveyard. By today's standards, according to him, this was rather tame behavior. But back then, he was considered something of a rebel considering his family's wealthy background, his sweet mother, and his more-often-than-not absent father. He is simply a boy with no idea what direction his life will take when he unexpectedly finds himself becoming a man with the help of a minister's daughter.<br />Jamie Sullivan is the quintessential good girl. She helps out at the local orphanage, heals wounded animals, and is kind to everyone she meets. She is also something of a plain Jane and is seemingly comfortable with the fact that she is different from others. Landon Carter asking her to the homecoming dance starts a relationship that is slow to blossom but is heartwrenchingly beautiful by the time it is in full bloom. As the two slowly, and even more reluctantly, fall in love, they find their happiness threatened and their faith tested.<br />This is the first book I've ever read by Nicholas Sparks and I doubt that it will be the last. I was incredibly moved by the love that was shared between Landon and Jamie. Their relationship forced me to look at love from a more spiritual perspective. Despite the fact that I am not a fan of first person narrative, I came to realize that the story coming from Landon's point of view simply made it all the more powerful because it is he who develops and improves. And too, through him, we are better able to understand, empathize, and relate to other characters especially Jamie whose religious fervor might be initially off-putting for those to whom faith is not the cornerstone of their existence. How Jamie compels Landon to tap his potential will moveyou to tears as you watch him become a better person, the person she knows he is capable of being and he never dreamt of becoming.	2001-12-28
US	51150291	RWYN2KBVQMT92	0373764057	41442245	Cowboy's Promise (Man Of The Month/Code Of The West) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An eternity without her�	Urban Native American photographer Charlie Seeks Elk turned his back on the woman who loved him and the hopes she had for marriage and a family. Two years later, what does he have to show for it? Caught in the crossfire in the Middle East, he finds himself hovering near death, comforted by the sight of those he loves, and ready to cross over. Though eternity seems ready for him, Charlie is not ready for it. Encountering death opens up regrets and makes him realize that he can no longer close himself off from his fear of loss. With that in mind, he heads off on a search for the love of his life. His search for her takes him to Montana and it is there that he finds, not only her, but himself as well.<br />Cait Blasingame switched jobs to be with and help out her father on their ranch. In addition to running a ranch, she also works as a nurse and a midwife as well. Among her professional and personal occupations, she is also trying to find the time to settle down and have that family she wanted with her fiancé who is a cardiologist. Between the two of them, they are helping everyone but themselves. And just when it seems as though Cait will never find the time to make her dream come true, Charlie Seeks Elk comes back into her life making it even more problematic by rekindling their mutual attraction and belatedly professing his love for her. Once she had loved him and was ready to make a future with him. Now their roles are reversed and Charlie is doing all he can to convince her that he's here to stay.<br />Anne McAllister will move readers deeply with her latest installment of this series. Charlie's story is one that will touch hearts as his near fatality compels him to reaffirm life in general. Whereas before he focused on the devastation of life and its tragedy, in Montana he uses his camera to capture life and the fundamental relationships of both animals and humans. His greatest struggle is not to win Cait's heart but to learn to be at peace with himself. Cait is a big part of this but she is primarily a challenge to overcome in a larger scheme. A lot of Charlie's discontent stems from his childhood and the author draws on characters from other stories without overwhelming Charlie and Cait's. Cait is a little harder to relate to at the start but as her past with Charlie unfolds and he reveals more of her to the reader, it becomes easier to understand her anger, her sadness, and her frustration. I really enjoyed learning about Charlie and Cait and was glad they managed to find each other in the end. I felt that what motivated Charlie to seek out Cait and how he discovers himself in Montana was starkly drawn and made the story even more powerful.	2001-12-09
US	51150291	R2ITJCEMQSV8D6	0425181464	403003617	Seduction in Death	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What started out as a game	In this installment of the In Death series, a killer whose romantic streak proves deadly and whose keen knowledge of drugs and technology is testament to his brilliance pursues a dangerous game. He seeks out and actively hunts women by catering to their romantic inclinations, their love of poetry, and by chemically ridding them of their inhibitions. But his rape and subsequent murder of two women brings Lieutenant Eve Dallas in as an unexpected opponent whose perceived inferiority only increases his arrogance and his determination to win the game he started. But as Dallas and her team closes in, the hunter realizes too late that he is the hunted. J.D. Robb has done a great job of weaving a splendid plot in her latest installment. Though there is no real mystery, the detailed illustration Robb has given the readers of the murderer is powerful and occasionally moving. The author's use of Eve's past in this case is obvious and we learn, as Dallas does, a little more than we wanted to about the man who was her father. Robb continuously draws parallels between the two cases. Dallas continues to &quot;stand for the dead&quot; and her dedication and determination almost threaten to exhaust her, which culminates in a very moving scene with her husband and his majordomo. Peabody and McNab learn to iron out their differences and to look at their relationship from a new angle while slowly discovering how to juggle their professional and personal lives together. And two other secondary characters return as civilian consultants on the case that also happen to find a growing interest in each other. Robb continues to shine in this series by approaching the case at every angle just as Eve does. In doing so, the story has more punch and all the characters, including the villains, are a little more understood. Do not miss this installment of the In Death series. It will leave you wanting more.	2001-08-30
US	51150291	R2H9C3YC9ZSCYL	0373271549	185625439	Moonglow, Texas	Books	5	9	9	N	N	He may not improve your home but he can improve your life	Molly Hansen doesn't particularly care for her home in Moonglow, Texas but when the U.S. Marshals' office sends over a handyman to work on her place, she figures it's not her place to argue. The house and the identity were given to Molly about a year ago when she entered the Witness Protection Program after witnessing a terrorist act. There is nothing about her new life Molly finds appealing and little she enjoys about Moonglow until the handyman from hell enters her life. <br />When Dan Shackelford left Moonglow twenty years ago, he never expected to come back much less return posing as an itinerant handyman. He might not know much about home improvement but figures he can play his unexpected assignment by ear. Still suffering from the tragic fallout of his last assignment, Dan is less sure of his skills as a Deputy Marshal than as a handyman. When WITSEC is compromised by hackers, however, he accepts the low-priority case of protecting Hansen knowing it is his last chance to prove himself capable of his professional duties. He never suspects that his charge will give him new hope both professionally and personally.<br />Mary McBride has written a story that is nearly flawless both in style and characterization. The irony is that part of the charm of this book stems from the imperfections of the hero. Dan Shackelford is both amusing and admirable in his role as a reluctant hero. His desire to go through life in a drunken haze only increases when he returns to Moonglow, the town where everyone literally knows his name and his reputation for trouble precedes him. He finds his depression lifting every now and again as he comes to befriend and eventually love Molly Hansen whose unflagging faith in him stuns and shames him out of his self-imposed misery. Molly is a wonderful heroine who has come to accept her new life. She's smart and practical so it doesn't take her long to realize that Shackelford is anything but handy to have around the house. But she is drawn to him, the Moonglow lore about his troubled adolescence, and the man he has become. McBride does an excellent job of developing Dan and Molly's relationship and drawing an appealing image of Moonglow, which only gets better for both the reader and Molly when Dan reluctantly drove back into town.	2001-06-07
US	51150291	R2X7K0PYEV542U	0373243944	216559919	Do You Take This Rebel? (The Calamity Janes, Book 1)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Forgive if not forget	Nine years ago, Cassie Collins left Winding River, Wyoming pregnant and unmarried. Cole Davis, the young man she'd loved, had turned his back on her and abandoned her. Determined to make a life for her and her child outside of the small town she grew up in, Cassie works as a waitress and manages to provide for her son and herself. While a life of luxury is impossible, they don't want for anything. But when her son Jake hears that she has been invited back to Winding River for her ten-year high school reunion, he can't pass up the opportunity to help her get the money to make the trip possible. His illegal scam on the Internet has the sheriff suggesting the two lie low and suddenly a trip back home doesn't seem so bad after all. Jake will be able to visit his much missed grandmother and Cassie will be reunited with the rest of the Calamity Janes, four girls she befriended way back when. The only cloud in her sky is the possibility of running into Cole and having him discover the truth about Jake's paternity.<br />Cole Davis had planned to leave Wyoming and move out from under his father's thumb. But when Frank suffers a stroke, Cole finds himself back where he was though he has determinedly made a success of himself in the computer industry. When he runs into Cassie, he can't help but feel betrayed by the fact that she wouldn't wait for him. But soon, Cassie and Cole uncover the truth behind their separation and are slowly renewing the friendship and love that once meant so much to them both. But this second chance hits a snag when Cole begins to wonder about her son. Soon the roles are reversed and Cole discovers he has to make a choice. He can either move forward with his life with Cassie and Jake or he can wallow in the disservice done by those he should have been able to trust. <br />Sherryl Woods is off to a promising start with her new series The Calamity Janes. \\"Do You Take This Rebel?\\" is a charming story that won't fail to move you. The bond between the fivewomen is still strong though they differ in many ways. Their loyalty towards each other is very much at the core of this book. But Woods doesn't allow them to usurp the development between Cole and Cassie as they struggle to piece together a family from the betrayal and mistrust of their past. Woods paints a very strong picture when it comes to Cassie who has struggled for the past nine years to raise her son and to give him the best life possible. She is painfully aware that she cannot offer him the wealth the Davises can and is also threatened by Cole's father whose machinations are never worked through completely. This is perhaps the one flaw of the story. Of the two, Cassie is the stronger character because she isn't afraid to risk her heart proving that despite years of caution and lessons painfully learned, she is still a rebel at heart. Cole has a lot more to work through though he faces a lot less pressure. Still, what he does for Cassie, despite his lack of faith in her, proves he is an admirable man who can slowly, but surely, work through his resentment. This is a good start to an interesting new series and I recommend picking it up.	2001-05-16
US	51150291	R3DF9OYSKN0KO3	0373121792	652130149	Inconvenient Bride	Books	5	16	16	N	N	For better or for worse	Dominic Wolfe has had it with his father's meddlesome matchmaking. The driven businessman has no time for a wife and harbors bad memories of being jilted twelve years ago. But when his father forces his hand, Dominic decides to beat him at his own game and railroads hair stylist Sierra Kelly into marriage figuring he's better off with the devil he knows rather than the one he doesn't. Sierra would be the first to say the two of them know next to nothing about each other. With her purple hair and her optimism, she couldn't be a more inappropriate wife for the straitlaced Dominic with his business suits and his mergers. And the vibrant attraction they feel for one another is not a solid base for marriage. Still, Sierra is determined to get beyond the walls her husband has in place to prove to him that love, like any merger, is worth fighting for. <br />In \\"The Inconvenient Bride\\", Anne McAllister has penned a heartwarming story about two opposites who marry in haste and feel compelled to make things work. But for such opposing characters, this leaves a lot of room for interpretation. To Sierra, marriage means admitting her feelings for Dominic go far beyond their initial attraction. She loves him and sees this marriage as an opportunity to learn more about each other and to make it last. And she realizes that she has barely scratched the surface of her husband's heart. Dominic's character provides the most challenge when it comes to the story. It is easy to see why he hedges when it comes to committing his heart and his blunt honesty when it comes to the reason why he married Sierra is very painful. For him, marriage is a convenience and Sierra is there for him to indulge in the attraction between the two while he continues business as usual. But his foolish belief that he will never love her throws a monkey wrench into his plans. With an unreceptive Sierra on his hands, Dominic realizes that if he wants this marriage to last, he is going to have to get to know his wife. The problem is, what he comes to know he can't help but love. McAllister does a fantastic job in her characterization of Dominic. Both Sierra and the reader come to realize that there is more to the man than just the suit. And with Sierra's help, he begins to unwind and to realize that business is not everything. Dominic is an interesting character because he tries so hard not to fall in love with Sierra and to retain the compartmentalization of his life. His bluntness when it comes to his wife doesn't just hurt her; it also reveals his vulnerability. Sierra is a blessing in disguise for him. She has a generosity of spirit that doesn't quit and an unflagging faith when it comes to her love for him. I really enjoyed Dominic and Sierra and how they came to understand that having little in common proved to be no match against the excellent balance they struck together.	2001-05-02
US	51150291	R16TRVZ66QMGX7	037351137X	557732254	Tallie's Knight	Books	5	34	34	N	N	An incredible Regency novel	On a visit to his childhood friend, Magnus, Earl of d'Arenville, finds himself falling in love with a child. It was the most unlikely thing. But having decided he'd like children of his own, he realizes that he must choose a wife. Not just any wife but one who will be content to live in the countryside and raise their children lovingly. Magnus requests that his cousin Laetitia put together a house party of eligible girls to choose from. One evening, he witnesses a young woman rising to the defense of a small boy and his dog and decides that she will be the one despite the fact that she is orphaned, penniless, and not eligible in the eyes of society. <br />Contrary to Magnus's belief, however, Tallie Robinson knows she won't be happy or grateful to be married to someone known as The Icicle. She was content to see to her cousin Laetitia's house and her children and all too happy to spin dreams of a hero who would love her and whom she could love in return. But Laetitia's outrage at what she sees as her undeserving turn of good fortune results in Tallie being turned out without a character, forcing her to marry Magnus after all. From there, the two embark on a Grand Tour. Though Magnus would be content to spend their honeymoon in Paris, Tallie has her reasons for wanting to travel to Italy. And over the course of their honeymoon, Tallie begins to realize that Magnus is not the cold and heartless man she thought as his concern for her becomes evident and she soon discovers that he is the hero she's been waiting for. All too soon she finds herself falling in love with this man who can't comprehend what love is but is becoming increasingly entranced with his incredibly charming and remarkably naïve wife. <br />\\"Tallie's Knight\\" is a wonderful story penned by author Anne Gracie. In it, she takes two people of very different temperaments who have never known love. From this marriage of convenience, the author spins out an incredible love story that fulfills Tallie's dreams, melts Magnus's heart, and captivates her readers. Tallie is a heroine who is ignorant of the malice that is rampant in society. Left by her parents at a school for most of her life, Tallie has retained her innocent outlook and her tendency to dream, which Gracie expresses through Tallie's internal thoughts. Through these dreams, readers come to understand Tallie's capacity for love and as Tallie experiences new things in her marriage her hero begins to take on more definition. Magnus is a hero who is misunderstood but doesn't care. Gracie begins the story by revealing that Magnus is much more than what he seems. As he falls in love first with a child and then with Tallie, we begin to see that though his heart does indeed melt, it seems to be far more likely that it was untapped for most of his life. In Tallie he finds a woman unlike any other that he's met. She doesn't use tears to manipulate, she is unexpectedly demanding, and she isn't thrilled with jewels. Tallie's love and her simple charm force Magnus to see the world through her eyes and to realize that it could be a very fine place indeed.	2001-04-12
US	51150291	R1XLQ405XWI3VW	0373291574	686704956	Gallant Waif	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Two war torn protagonists	Kate Farleigh is on the brink of selling herself into service when Lady Cahill arrives only to kidnap her in an attempt to save her from herself. She claims to be the godmother of Kate's long deceased mother. Not given the chance to question this claim, she finds herself spirited to Leicestershire, which is next on Lady Cahill's itinerary. There, she finds herself being confronted by Jack Carstairs, Lady Cahill's grandson, who has consigned himself to a reclusive existence due to war-related injuries he suffered on the Peninsula. Despite their inauspicious beginning, Jack finds himself frequently surprised by the half-starved urchin who persistently defies him and will not be cowed by his vile temper and black moods. He slowly discovers that Kate is no stranger to war and that her own experiences on the Peninsula have forged an indelible mark that does not allow her to tolerate his constant self-pity. <br />Anne Gracie has spun a beautiful and poignant story about two people who have been marked by war and how they have learned to deal with it in England where it seems to have had far more tragic repercussions. Kate Farleigh is a spirited and charming heroine despite the negligence of her father and the defection of her betrothed. Despite having been kidnapped and put into an unfamiliar situation, Kate makes the most of her existence. Once a concerned Lady Cahill installs Kate as Jack's housekeeper and to see to his well being, Kate truly does what she can to clean the place and comes to care for Jack despite the fact that he defies her at every turn and argues with her about her unsuitability when it comes to housework. Jack firmly believes that Kate deserves far more than what life has bestowed upon her. As he comes to understand her negligent childhood and to love the challenging girl who does all she can to help him, he begins to wonder whether she can ever love him despite his wounds. Gracie's skillful use of cunning and clever secondary characters only servesto emphasize the appeal of her protagonists as they struggle with their own insecurities and the scorn of society in order to find their happiness.	2001-04-09
US	51150291	R23GN5YTF9X702	0373650558	977469095	Magnificent Seven (Montana Mavericks)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Two families�one incredible team	Heather Johnson has returned to Whitehorn in order to deal with her father's estate. Years ago she had escaped the bitter prison of her childhood. Ten years and three children later, Heather has found a measure of success as a public relations executive in San Francisco. It's a job that has given her a sense of self-worth and has helped to fend off the memories of her alcoholic father and the strict housekeeper he left her upbringing to. When she arrives at her father's ranch, she is advised to remodel it before selling so she reluctantly hires contractor, Mitch Fielding, to assist her. Mitch doesn't succeed in making a good impression on Heather or her children when his twin daughters wreak havoc during his interview. He can't help but admire Heather for how well-behaved her children are and arranges for her to take care of his girls during the day while he works in hopes that she might influence them in a good way. At first Heather manages to distance herself from Mitch and his motherless girls. But as she wins their hearts, she finds herself unable to extricate herself from their hope that together, they'd make a fantastic team.<br />\\"The Magnificent Seven\\" is by far the best of the Montana Mavericks series thus far. Cheryl St. John is to be commended for the wonderful way in which she has created two different families and integrated them into a dynamic one. It is refreshing to encounter a hero whose heart is as good as Mitch Fielding's. Though his twins are truly terrible brats who succeed in manipulating him, he finds himself helpless to deny them. But when he meets Heather, he finds himself falling in love with her beauty, her poise, and the wonderful way she disciplines her children without any fear of inadequacy. While Mitch does believe that his twins need a mother, he does not see Heather as merely fitting that role. Instead, he finds himself falling in love with her and admiring her success with the twins, a lesson she imparts to him. In an unusual but not unexpected reversal of roles, Heather balks at the idea of staying in Whitehorn and marrying Mitch. All of her childhood fears and misery are at this ranch. But her own children love living in Montana and as Mitch begins to remodel the house, she finds herself unable to dwell on the past that haunts her. Instead she begins to speculate what could be with Mitch and his girls. St. John has written a heartwarming and fluid installment of this series that will not disappoint at all.	2001-03-21
US	51150291	RYBWJOU0N0EAF	0373650698	492681902	Billion Dollar Bride (Maitland Maternity, Book 8)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	You can�t take it with you	The Cahill-Lamont wedding would have been a coup for wedding planner Anna Maitland if she wasn't so certain that the bride and groom, two good friends, weren't making the biggest mistake of their lives. Anna's priority was making the day a dream for Caroline Lamont but when she discovered that wealthy businessman Austin Cahill sought this marriage for the sake of producing an heir to leave his fortune to, she couldn't help but disapprove despite claims from both parties that they were certain that this was what they wanted. Still another problem arose when her brilliant son Will found a kindred spirit in Austin. And yet, the more Anna comes to know and understand what motivates Austin, the more she finds herself drawn to him. For Austin Cahill, marriage to his friend Caroline is ideal. Neither of them is capable of love and all he wants is a child to leave everything to. But when he meets their wedding planner, he can't help but admire Anna for her poise, her wit, and her incredible son. As he becomes more involved in making decisions regarding the wedding, he unexpectedly finds himself falling in love with Anna and her son. <br />Muriel Jensen's installment of the Maitland Maternity series is the best yet. The story is fluid and the characters are engaging. She turns what could be clichéd into something creative and endearing. Austin is a hero who isn't heartless despite the circumstances involving his intent to wed. His decision to marry Caroline is not a dispassionate one because he knows that the two of them truly are good friends. And though Jensen could have employed a love triangle as a tool, she doesn't. Instead, Anna comes to respect both Austin and Caroline despite her misgivings about preparing this wedding. Anna is a strong heroine who has endured a loveless marriage so her concern for Caroline becomes sincere and admirable. She is also able to relate to Austin and his need for family. But she never behaves unprofessionally and always displays her uttersense of responsibility. One of the best things about this story is the fact that it is not their immediate attraction that pulls Austin and Anna together so much as a grudging friendship whose potential for love is explored with the help of Will, the ten-year old financial wizard who is Anna's pride and a source of mild envy for Austin. There is a secret that Anna does keep from Austin that is paramount to the story but it is worked through thoroughly and without breaking the fluidity of this story. In addition, Jensen also juggles the secondary plots incredibly well, integrating them into the story without detracting from the appeal of Austin, Anna, and Will's story.	2001-03-21
US	51150291	R4OMGTYLZIHLY	0373243820	925703609	A Love Beyond Words (50th Book) (Harlequin Special Edition)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A unique love story	When Hurricane Gwen mercilessly ripped through Allie Matthews's neighborhood, the deaf woman was buried beneath the rubble that had once been her home. She is brought back to safety by firefighter Ricky Wilder and the connection established at the time of the rescue begins a relationship that Allie feels compelled to explore after years of self-imposed seclusion due to her loss of hearing. For Ricky Wilder, life had been full of work and women until he rescued Allie whose strength of character and courage he found incredibly attractive. But after years of dodging matrimonial lectures from his mother and sisters, Ricky finds himself trying to resist taking the fall that his family believes will assure his happiness. <br />\\"A Love Beyond Words\\" is not exactly an appropriate title for this story. Although Allie is deaf, she is perfectly capable of speaking and communicating verbally with others since she was not born deaf. But Sherryl Woods has created two engaging characters in Ricky and Allie who are brought together because of a natural disaster. The story progresses at a moderate and comfortable pace for most of the book and I really enjoyed reading about the friendship that develops between these two characters who seem to have little in common but find that they admire what they learn about each other. Ricky is a laidback guy who is comfortable with his life and his choices. He enjoys a modicum of danger in his life to keep it from becoming dull but he is also deeply rooted in his family. Because of her loss of hearing, Allie is much more structured. She has had to give up one dream in order to find and pursue another. She clearly understands what it means to adjust because of this so I was surprised at her inflexibility when it came to her attitude towards Ricky's job especially since his skills save lives including hers. An only child, she finds Ricky's family both appealing and overwhelming. I really enjoyed how Woods integrated Ricky's family and friends intothe story because it really enhanced his relationship with Allie whereas her opinion of the danger that comes with his job diminished some of the progress made in their relationship. Perhaps if Woods had integrated it a little earlier into the story, there might have been more time to work through it. Instead it disrupted an otherwise fluid story.	2001-03-20
US	51150291	R3A8HWK2PO7YLK	0373834632	573653285	Texas Vows	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Moving forward	Sam McCabe and his five sons have been at an emotional standstill from the moment his wife died of cancer. Kate Marten, a grief consultant, knows that the suppression of his grief has rendered his sons incapable of finding a healthy way to work through their own. In one last effort to convince Sam to let her counsel the six of them, she arrives on his doorstep and somehow manages to convince him to become his new household manager. Sam isn't happy with the arrangement but he needs all the help he can get. His sons' determination not to let any woman fill their mother's shoes has resulted in the resignation of ten housekeepers in six months. Kate is the only woman who has actually volunteered for the position and no one is more surprised than he is when she lasts.<br />Kate has not led a charmed life. She is not a consultant who practices in theories or who demeans her patients with lofty ideas. She is familiar with grief due to the tragic death of her brother Pete years ago. A death her father, Laramie's football coach, blames on Sam McCabe, Pete's best friend. So her decision to help the McCabes meets with disapproval from her father with his high expectations, her mother with her need for peace, and her fiancé who was once her father's protege. Her concern for them is at war with her love for Sam McCabe and his five sons who are struggling so hard to come to terms with their loss.<br />Cathy Gillen Thacker has written a heart-wrenching story about two people whose pasts are intertwined but whose futures are in jeopardy. \\"Texas Vows\\" contains a number of stories that work together to create a whole and at the center of it all is Sam and Kate and how they work and interact with her father and his sons. Kate is a woman who is juggling a great deal professionally but is not quite content on a personal level. She thrives on the challenge of her job as a consultant and is determined to help because she understands, firsthand, the extended devastation that occurs unexpectedly as a result of unresolved grief. She also deals with the expectations her father has for her and her growing disenchantment with her fiancé. Sam, on the other hand, relies on Kate to deal with all the things he never had to when his wife was alive. And for the most part, he doesn't have to worry about them aside from a few misadventures. But when it comes to Will, his oldest son, Sam, Kate, and her father discover that there is cause for concern when it comes to how he has been dealing with his sense of loss. Thacker has written a wonderfully well-rounded story about the McCabes and this is an emotionally fulfilling story fails to disappoint.	2001-03-20
US	51150291	R2IMP3DM207863	0373168624	787633948	The Bride Said, "Surprise!" (The Lockharts Of Texas) (Harlequin American Romance, No 862)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	For the sake of everyone but herself	As the oldest of the Lockhart daughters, Meg has born the burden of looking after her orphaned sisters and raising her son out of wedlock in the small town of Laramie. She has kept the truth about Jeremy's paternity well hidden from friends and family alike while struggling to provide her sisters and child with the stability they need. After years of maintaining her control and independence, she realizes that she would be loath to give it up. When Dr. Luke Carrigan moves in next door, Meg's much vaunted control is put to the test. Once her best friend, he offered her a safe harbor the night of her parents' tragic death, a night that resulted in the conception of their son. Having, at the time, been involved with another woman, Luke felt he had an obligation to fulfill his duty to that relationship. But he never forgot Meg. Now Luke and his three daughters are working their way into Meg and Jeremy's hearts. The one thing that stands in the way of their happiness is the truth behind Jeremy's paternity.<br />Cathy Gillen Thacker's third installment of her Lockharts of Texas quartet begins with a great deal of promise. Thacker has created a wonderful hero in Luke Carrigan who is practically perfect in every way. There is no real surprise since he does suspect he is Jeremy's father from the start. He does, however, want Meg to trust in his love for her enough so that she will tell him the truth herself. He courts her and renews his friendship with her in hopes that she will realize that her fear that he will leave her is unnecessary. He struggles to understand Meg's fears and, though he knows Meg prides herself on being independent, he strives to help her realize that she can retain her self-sufficiency even while accepting the support he provides. Meg proves to be a fatal flaw to this story. Her need to be in control, while understandable, becomes an obsession as her relationship with Luke progresses. Also, she takes for granted that the love they bear for one another precludes unhappiness. Her sentiment and fears are not given adequate space to work through. I really enjoyed Luke's character and his and Meg's interaction with their four children. I believed that Luke deserved to find the love of his life. He brought faith and optimism to their story despite his disastrous first marriage. Jeremy deserved to finally have his father. Unfortunately, Thacker doesn't demonstrate what Meg brings to their relationship except as a mother to all four children.	2001-03-14
US	51150291	R1LDMGL23R093C	0373709765	327409243	Count on Me (Harlequin Superromance No. 976)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Against all odds	It's been nearly a year since Dr. Kurt Lansing broke high school teacher Zoe Caufield's heart. Through sheer will she has finally managed to come to terms with his betrayal and has succeeded in moving on with her life. The last thing she needs is a setback. So when she discovers that Kurt's idea for a teen clinic in Bayview Heights has been approved, she is less than thrilled about the idea of having to work with him. But for the sake of her students she is willing to put aside the pain that lies between them. Kurt isn't too happy with the situation either. He knows his presence in Bayview will hurt Zoe and after his attempt to reconcile with his ex-wife proved to be a dismal failure, the last thing he needs is to be reminded of what he foolishly tossed aside. And if Zoe's apparent indifference isn't bad enough, it seems the whole town isn't quite ready to forgive him for the mistake he made in hurting her. <br />&quot;Count On Me&quot; is the third installment of Kathryn Shay's moving Bayview Heights series. She does a great job of integrating the community into this story without detracting from Zoe and Kurt's relationship. Zoe is a remarkable heroine with her generous heart and eagerness to do what is right. The author portrays her as an optimist who is always looking to help or ease the pain of those around her, including the man who wronged her. Kurt begins the story on a less admirable note but quickly displays his need to heal others and to right wrongs. A lot of his internal conflict stems from the helplessness he feels in not being able to heal the pain he has inflicted upon the woman he has never stopped loving. Though he is resigned to the hostile attitude of Zoe's friends and students, he manages to eventually win them over by example. More importantly, he comes to care for and want to help Zoe's students, which makes Zoe wonder whether he is a man who can be depended upon after all.<br />&quot;Count On Me&quot; is a powerful story not just about the restoration of Zoe and Kurt's love but also about the relationships between teachers and students. One of the most interesting aspects of this story is the way in which Shay gives voice to many of the concerns high school students and their families face today. The author displays a keen insight when it comes to understanding the emotional inadequacies of the adult and teenage protagonists. This story will open your eyes and your heart and I highly recommend it to you.	2001-03-09
US	51150291	R21MCBN4LO5S93	0425178579	127101612	Betrayal in Death	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Better watch your back	Lieutenant Eve Dallas is pulled from a party at her husband's Palace Hotel when one of the maids, Darlene French, is brutally beaten, raped, and subsequently strangled with a slender wire of silver. It doesn't take her long to find the hired assassin who made only a half-hearted attempt to disguise himself. A hammer for hire, Sylvester &quot;Sly&quot; Yost has made a career of killing and after four successful decades, he's got it down to an art form. What Dallas soon comes to realize is that behind the hammer lies the purpose behind the seemingly senseless death of a young maid. When another assassination is perpetrated on someone closer to Roarke, Dallas comes to realize that the target has been her husband all along. Finding Yost is hard enough, taking him down proves to be even more difficult, and finding his client seems next to impossible with two FBI Agents usurping her authority and a boyhood friend of Roarke's who has come to pay an unexpected visit. <br />J.D. Robb has written another brilliant suspense story featuring Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke, a truly dynamic duo whose incredible relationship is put mildly to the test when his old friend Mick shows up and begins reminiscing about old times. Roarke finds himself torn between the loyalty he owes his friend who saw him through hard times and his wife who tries, despite her profession, to see him through everything. As Eve tries to come to terms with more of Roarke's past, she is also uncovering a surprising web of conspiracy to which Yost just might be the key and dealing with the aggravating &quot;Feebs&quot;. And if that wasn't enough, she finds herself providing a shoulder for the usually sturdy Peabody whose relationship with McNab hits a surprising snag. This is a fantastic installment of Robb's In Death series, which reveals more about the enigmatic Roarke and allows Eve to explore her role as a wife and as a friend without minimizing her role as a cop.	2001-03-07
US	51150291	R28PLM5HCAP8Q	037365068X	956417949	Formula: Father (Maitland Maternity, Book 7)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Their friendship was everything	Supermodel Darcy Taylor has returned to Austin, Texas to fulfill her dream of having a home and raising a child. After sixteen years of runways and international magazines, she's come back home to the people who loved her and not her face. Though her dream initially included a husband, she has forgone that part because no one could surpass the love she felt for her best friend, Mitchell Maitland. Now a fertility specialist, Mitch reluctantly agrees to help Darcy have a child though he can't understand why the beautiful girl he loved insists on this procedure. As they renew their friendship, both Mitch and Darcy are forced to confront a sixteen-year separation that tore apart the young love they had had for each other but never got the chance to explore.<br />Karen Hughes's installment of the Maitland Maternity series is engaging and intriguing. Both Mitch and Darcy are interesting characters whose childhood friendship is recalled by the author with a deft hand as being endearing. I enjoyed the nostalgic flashbacks Hughes writes of these two because it deepened my understanding of them and they were well integrated without being overly trite. But in the present, Mitch and Darcy have a lot to overcome due to their celebrity. Much of the conflict lays in Darcy's retirement and the scandal surrounding the Maitlands which envelopes Mitch by blood. The issue of Darcy needing Mitch's help to conceive is never spun out the way readers are led to believe. This was the story's shortcoming. We do, however, learn more about the secondary plot involving an amnesiac waitress and the baby found on the steps of the clinic. Hughes develops this storyline without detracting overly from Mitch and Darcy's story, which is no small feat. I did like Mitch and Darcy despite their difficulties, which are sorted through a little too quickly. But their friendship, which was integral to their romance, was very appealing.	2001-02-22
US	51150291	R3NA6SK4ABK5YH	037365054X	627221492	Rich , Rugged...Ruthless (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Losing his past gave him a new chance at life	Handsome and successful banker Max Montgomery had a reputation for being a young \\"Scrooge\\" in Whitehorn, Montana. He fostered this image, distanced himself from people, and yet he demanded a lot from them as well. He didn't believe in trusting his heart, he didn't believe in second chances. But a car accident results in the loss of his past. Though he retains his knowledge of business and all things functional, he can't remember a single person he used to interact with. From father to neighbor, he is forced to see the harsh man he was in the face of the man he could have been. As his private nurse, Samantha Carter is drawn to Max. Despite the rumors she's heard, she can't quite ignore her intuitive feeling that Max is not the monster everyone seems to think. As the days progress, she comes to reconcile the controlled man he was with the vulnerability he strove so hard to suppress, a vulnerability that comes to light in the face of his memory loss.  <br />Jennifer Mikels' installment of the Montana Mavericks series is well written and engaging. Both Max and Sam are intriguing characters who come from different worlds. Where Max thrives on the power he wields and the control he demands, Sam is a free spirit. Both are drawn to each other because of the appeal this holds for each of them. Though Max's memory loss doesn't completely change the man he was, what seems to do is lower his guard and allow him to explore the man he might have been if a key event in his past had never taken place. Mikels does a terrific job of unveiling Max's past and the impact it had, and has, upon him. It does clarify his need for control and the not-so-secret reason why it is so essential to him, which is fear. Sam's free spirit and warm heart are just what he needs to give him a second chance though she has her own worries to deal with concerning her childhood and the instability of her background, which is something she both loved and resented. Though this story was clearly meant to be more about Max than Sam, which it was, Mikels does a great job in dealing with their relationship and Sam's concern for Max as well as the different worlds they come from which she fears could split them apart. I never got the feeling that either character was being shortchanged. Mikels does a wonderful job of striking a balance considering all she had to accomplish in order to tell this story.	2001-02-20
US	51150291	R705U7B97AZWS	0373168632	603493073	The Pregnant Ms. Potter (Harlequin American Romance, No 863)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The eternal battle	The moment Pete Taggert rescued expectant mother, Madeline Potter, sparks flew and opinions clashed. Conservative and traditional, Pete believes men were meant to provide and women were meant to make a home for husband and children. A successful advertising executive, Maddy has fought long, hard, and determinedly to advance her career. But in the face of imminent single parenthood and under the legend of the Taggert wedding quilt, Maddy and Pete put their growing love for each other to the test against their conflicting views on a woman's place in marriage. <br />Millie Criswell has written a well-rounded story around what seems to be an age-old battle between men and women. Though the legend attached to the wedding quilt brings Pete and Maddy together in a sense, Criswell does not completely rely on it as a plot device. Instead, she engages the reader by giving us insight into both Pete and Maddy as well as select, and intriguing, secondary characters who either know or come to understand what motivates Pete and Maddy's views on what the role of wife is comprised of as well as what a woman is capable of doing for her family. By exploring the basic conflict that threatens to tear these two apart, Criswell illustrates how strong an influence love can be as both a means to restrict one's partner or to support them as Pete and Maddy learn when they discover the ultimate value of compromise. Though I felt the characters of Pete and Maddy were spread a little thin overall, this is an engaging, if somewhat unremarkable, story. For some of Criswell's standout work, try \\"The Trouble With Mary\\", \\"The Marrying Man\\", or \\"The Wedding Planner\\".	2001-02-20
US	51150291	RS4AC4GE8Y2FB	0380975726	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An incredible story about an unlikely pair	Former football heiress Molly Sommerville has been known for leading an exemplary existence. From childhood to adulthood, she has always behaved properly, excelled academically, and found the perfect career which allows her to express her creative abilities through a series of written and illustrated children's books that draw upon some of her own experiences, including her insane and longstanding crush on star quarterback Kevin Tucker. But for all her attempts to be a model of propriety, every once in a while she feels compelled to succumb to the bug of restlessness that bites her. And as history has a way of showing, restlessness and disaster go hand-in-hand when it comes to Molly. <br />In an odd twist of fate, Chicago Stars quarterback Kevin Tucker, is also feeling an odd itch of restlessness. Unlike Molly, who attempts to repress her crazy impulses, Kevin feeds them by taking up dangerous hobbies like ski diving. His reckless pursuits have come to the attention of the Stars' management who are furious with him for his needless self-endangerment. Frustrated by their restrictions and fines, not to mention his own inability to understand his perpetual need for excitement, he nearly kills Molly in the Stars' parking lot. Ironically enough, this sets off a chain of events that have this unlikely, and deceptively, mismatched pair headed down the same road, initially from opposite directions. <br />Susan Elizabeth Phillips will delight her audience with the long-awaited story of Molly and Kevin. In their story, Phillips draws upon a deep and effective well of humor and poignancy that will entertain and move you, respectively. Molly Sommerville is a wonderful heroine whose need to forfeit her large inheritance to discover her own self-worth only hints at her spunkiness and begins to tap the fearless woman she could be. Kevin Tucker, an amazingly contradictory character, helps Molly to uncover her true self with the help of the Wind Lake bed and breakfast, an inheritance he deeply resents. Despite his \\"Iron Man\\" ways, Kevin is an incredibly sensitive hero whose need to do what is right is deeply ingrained. He fights hard to preserve his indifference while his heart longs for a connection. In this sense, both he and Molly come to understand the uncanny similarities between them. At the bed and breakfast, Kevin and Molly will slowly overcome their hostility, see beyond their stereotypes of each other, be subjected to the advice of a young, lovesick couple, and form an abiding connection with an aging Hollywood actress who is full of self-doubt. Molly will win you over with her smart mouth and her whimsical characters of Nightingale Woods. Kevin will charm you with his wonderful heart and tremendous sense of devotion while he tries to get his priorities straight. I hope you'll pick up this book and fall in love with Molly and Kevin as they develop a strong friendship that transitions into love.	2001-02-08
US	51150291	RY77DPIGQELQO	037329123X	147319873	Sea Witch	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The messenger	When Captain Riordan Spencer arrives to deliver the news that the Lambert sisters' beloved father and brother were killed on their way home from sea, he never expects to be confronted by such a strength of union on the part of the Lambert family and their friends. He is also stunned to find himself fascinated with Ambrosia, the eldest of the sisters, whose skill with a sword rivals her great beauty. The Lambert sisters are not typical young women and Ambrosia, especially, has been gifted with a heart as stout as any man's and a courage that matches her fearlessness. Familiar with ships and life at sea, it doesn't take her long to deduce that it was more than just a storm that was responsible for the deaths of her father and brother. And the more she learns of their loyalty to the king, the more she realizes that Spencer and her father and brother are not merely sailors. Soon, Ambrosia and her sisters take up the cause to fight for king and country and to carry on where her father left off, as privateers. <br />With this story, Ruth Langan has written a marvelous tale full of heart-stopping suspense and a stirring romance between Riordan and Ambrosia who share an uncommon love of adventure that cannot be contained by the strictures of society. Though for the sake of her safety, Riordan might wish it. Readers will be moved by the Lamberts and their loyal, and uncommonly brave, friends who risk a great deal for each other as well as their king. And though there is no real mystery involved, Langan keeps you on the edge of your seat with dangerous sea battles and the thrill of life at sea. I look forward to reading the next installment about these three remarkable and courageous sisters.	2001-02-06
US	51150291	R19J9SNKDQ8MCM	0373291450	534116450	Sea Nymph (Sirens Of The Sea) (Harlequin Historical, No 545)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An intriguing hero	If Bethany Lambert thought juggling the life of being a lady and a privateer was difficult, it is nothing compared to the life of secrets and tragedy that hounds Kane Preston, the earl of Alsmeeth. Kane's world is steeped in dark rumors that he murdered his father and the time served for the crime as well as the vicious gossip, keeps him reclusive and isolated in his estate in Cornwall. And although he presents a picture of restrained propriety, Kane's defiant heart recognizes a kindred spirit in Bethany and he is determined to draw her fearless spirit into his life. <br />Ruth Langan continues her Sirens of the Sea trilogy with Bethany Lambert, an expert marksman with a pistol and a courageous privateer. But she has met her match in Kane Preston whose own rebellious spirit cannot be contained completely by society, obligation, or his title despite his efforts to live up to the parents who loved him. But like a moth to a flame, he is drawn not only to Bethany, but to her adventurous life and supportive family as well. I thoroughly enjoyed the many sides of Kane Preston who is an irresistible combination of Robin Hood and Clark Kent. But in a sense, Langan allows Kane with his troubled spirit and multitude of facets to eclipse Bethany. There is not much exploration of her life as a privateer. The edge of suspense and balance between the main characters maintained in the previous installment is not quite as successfully achieved but it is a well-written and engaging continuation of a daring trilogy.	2001-02-06
US	51150291	R2552WV63QZNSM	037327128X	559436994	Someone To Watch Over Her (A Year Of Loving Dangerously): A Novel (Intimate Moments, 1058)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	She was worth a small fortune	Kidnapped by order of a man called Simon, the young and sheltered girl would provide some much needed money, which the traitor finds himself in desperate need of. But Jessica Burke, a brilliant scientist, manages to escape her kidnappers and swim to the shores of Cascadilla where SPEAR Agent Marcus Waters is \\"vacationing\\" and lying in wait for Simon. The moment he rescues Jessica, he is attracted to her fresh-faced beauty, innocence, and implicit trust. He vows to protect Jessica from harm including the feelings he has for her which leaves her endangered and him disarmed. <br />Margaret Watson's installment of the \\"Year of Loving Dangerously\\" series implies that there will be a great deal of suspense, if not action. But this proves to be misleading. Though Simon is indeed determined to hold Jessica for ransom, it is only because he is strapped for cash. Jessica is merely a small fish in a pond beyond her comprehension. Most of the action that takes place is derived from the tension between Marcus and Jessica, which stems from their mutual attraction for each other. The action doesn't pick up for most of the story. Fortunately for the author, this allows for some much needed development in the relationship these two share. Marcus, who is considerably older than Jessica, is hard-edged and cynical. This shell protects a noble heart that understands the heavy price that comes with loving someone. Jessica is his polar opposite but she is intellectually wise beyond her years. What makes their love credible is not the heightened and unusual circumstances in which they meet but the give and take Watson illustrates between the two which makes them better and more admirable characters as a team than they are apart.	2001-02-01
US	51150291	R2SCGJVX507AY	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A love that knows no bounds	When Addis de Valence returned to England from years of slavery, it was to find his birthright usurped and his son being cared for by his late wife's friend. Moira is a bondwoman who claims Claire's father gave her and her mother their freedom prior to his death. Drawn to Moira for her generous heart and the link she represents to the past, Addis refuses to accept her claim for liberty. Initially Moira decides to let Addis have his way for the sake of his son, whom she raised as her own. When it becomes clear, however, that Addis will never let her go, Moira must decide whether she should yield to the love she bears him or hold onto her pride which demands her freedom.<br />Madeline Hunter has written an emotionally powerful story about a man who returns home to find all is not as it should be. His one ray of hope is Moira whose love has helped him more than he knows. Addis is determined to reclaim his place as the lord of Barrowburgh and Moira is willing to help. She knows, however, that she will pay a heavy price for the love she bears him, but she refuses to let history repeat itself by serving as Addis's leman no matter how great his need for her. Moira is perhaps the strongest part of this story because she is forced to endure so much. And yet, she is never a victim. All she does for Addis to help him is done in the hopes that she will eventually realize her own freedom though her heart will always be tied to Addis through the years they shared as children. Hunter also successfully integrates a plot of political intrigue as a means for Addis to reclaim his title. In addition, Addis proves to be a hero in the end. When he first appears, though he understands Moira's plight, he refuses to sympathize. But as his attraction for her deepens into love, he belatedly comes to relate to her feelings on the issue of individual freedom. This is a wonderful story filled again with rich, historical detail and the flavor of this period really stands out through Hunter's incredible use of perspective.	2001-01-30
US	51150291	R2JUSL61WV3HIM	0553582232	937215647	By Design (Medievals)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	They shared a love that had no place in society	Joan sinks her hopes, her fears, and her grief into her tiny statues. She looks forward to the day when the craft she has successfully adopted will liberate her from her self-imposed indentured servitude. Though that is her immediate goal, she harbors another whose purpose lays in the secrets she keeps and the brother she has vowed to protect. Rhys, a skilled mason, is drawn to the beautiful tiler. When he discovers she has been put into the stocks for her master's faulty work, he does the unthinkable and buys her. But more than a piece of paper binds these two craftspeople. As Rhys shares his love of the craft with Joan, he finds himself falling fast in love with the tiler who is not entirely what she seems. The deepening affection between the two is ill-timed as the winds of change stir and spark the unhappiness of the realm. Rhys finds himself unexpectedly drawn into the deadly political struggle with too much at stake.<br />\\"By Design\\" is the conclusion to Madeline Hunter's first trilogy. It picks up both historically, and politically, three years after its predecessor, \\"By Possession\\". Hunter does a spectacular job of building the political edge of this story through Rhys's evolving role. In addition, she successfully threads the interweaving plot, involving Joan's past, into the story as well. She is to be commended for skillfully integrating Rhys and Joan's friendship and love into the plot and making it central to the story. Both protagonists are strong-willed and admirable. Rhys is initially reluctant to be drawn back into the dangerous political games he was once a part of, but Joan's cries against injustice stir him into action, making him shake off his cynicism. While Joan fills him with hope, Rhys helps Joan overcome her fears, her distrust, her rashness, and her hasty sense of judgment. He lends her patience and wisdom with his steadfast loyalty.	2001-01-30
US	51150291	R1GSAR1ST8D8BF	0373271301	954158236	Loving Lizbeth (The Sullivan Sisters) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1060) (Intimate Moments, 1060)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Proving home is where the heart is	For Lizbeth Sullivan, providing food and hospitality is a legacy she is proud to have inherited from her family of hoteliers. The one thing that sets her apart from them, however, is her unusual need to establish roots. In Stafford, New Hampshire, she has found a way to accommodate her legacy and her preference by running a successful bed-and-breakfast, which allows her to exercise her expertise in home economics. Colin St. James is in Stafford to restore a house. His clients' recommendation leads him to Lizbeth's bed-and-breakfast where he finds himself delighted with the service and the proprietor whose timid manner and generous heart move him as much as her quiet beauty. An army brat, Colin finds he shares a common background with Lizbeth to a certain extent. Until he met Lizbeth, he was quite comfortable with his pick-up and go lifestyle. But Lizbeth, with her heart steeped in this quiet and appealing town, shows him how tempting putting down roots can be. <br />Ruth Langan's second installment of her \\"Sullivan Sisters\\" trilogy is well written. It has an engaging style, which centers itself around a persistent change in point of view among the primary characters, including Loretta a ninety-two year old widow who nurtures the love that is developing between the hero and heroine. Colin St. James is an endearing hero who is a throwback by way of occupation as well as manner. He is an architect who loves to restore old houses, preserving their history while retaining their function. He is also gallant and charming when it comes to Lizbeth and Loretta. Lizbeth is a little harder to understand through no real fault of her own. She displays a great deal of strength despite her shyness and she loves being a part of a community. She is clearly a person meant for hearth and home. But in terms of development, Lizbeth was slightly lacking. Langan does hint that a previously painful experience with love gives the heroine pause when it comes to giving her heart but because she never allows her audience insight as to the reason why, it is difficult to sympathize with Lizbeth or to find any development on her part to be credible because it gives the impression of being too sudden. \\"Loving Lizbeth\\" has an appealing hero and a wonderful setting. The heroine is admirable but she would have been far more engaging if we had as much access to her thoughts as we did Colin's.	2001-01-30
US	51150291	R2BLO8UPNZBU6A	0373243790	512657747	Considering Kate (The Stanislaskis) (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1379)	Books	4	72	77	N	N	She lived out her dreams	Lovely and gifted Kate Kimball lived out her dream of being a prima ballerina. Now all she wants is to return home to West Virginia and set up her new school of dance in the town where she grew up. She has everything planned out and has factored in all the risks. She knows she can make a success of her new dream but she needs Brody O'Connell's skills to make her dream a reality. As the head of his own construction company, Brody's life revolves around his work and his six-year old son Jack. But he is drawn to the aggressive and persistent dancer who has entranced his son and who is captivating him in spite of his own reservations. <br />With \\"Considering Kate\\", author Nora Roberts takes her audience back to the heart-warming Stanislaski family. The plot of Kate's story draws heavily upon its predecessor, \\"Taming Natasha\\". Fans of this particular family will recognize the inversion and the nostalgia it invokes. For new readers, \\"Considering Kate\\" stands alone as a solidly written story with a determined and winsome heroine and an admirable and endearing hero. Though there is nothing creative or new about Roberts' plot, her characterizations are as strong as ever and Kate, Brody, Jack and a number of other secondary characters really help this story to stand on its own. Again, the author has a fantastic knack for skillfully drawing upon the Stanislaski family, which is rich with love and rife with emotional support. And though Roberts draws upon them extensively throughout the story, she never allows it to eclipse Brody and Kate's relationship. These two develop their affection for each other at a comfortable and credible pace without any unnecessary angst but with a great deal of charm.	2001-01-30
US	51150291	R9TMCHLB3YHMH	0373650531	67164120	Birth Mother (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Circumstances beyond her control	When she spent the night with Kincaid heir, Brandon Harper, eight months ago, Emma Stover never believed she would need him as an alibi. Her primary concern was when he never contacted her again until now. For some reason, Brandon can't get sweet, vulnerable Emma out of his mind and so he's ready to sacrifice some of his pride to rectify the mistake he made in not calling her. He persistently courts her trying to make up for lost time and even makes the effort to disclose some of his personal information to her in order for her to get to know him better. For a man as guarded as he, this goes against the grain. But when Emma faces real trouble, his feelings for her are finally put to the test.<br />Pamela Toth's installment of the Montana Mavericks mini-series strives to accomplish a lot and nearly succeeds. The author tries, with some success, to juggle Brandon and Emma's developing relationship, the incriminating circumstances surrounding Emma in the Christina Montgomery murder, and the disappointment Emma continually faces when it comes to the reality of her birth mother. Brandon Harper is an admirable, if somewhat close-mouthed hero who has a tremendous amount of faith in Emma. He displays this by standing by her in the face of seriously incriminating evidence. Emma's faith in Brandon is ultimately not as strong due to his eight-month disappearance. Still, her persistent lack of faith in him will disappoint readers to a certain extent because it illustrates a lack of development on her part and paints Brandon as only there for her convenience. This is a disservice to Brandon's character especially since his faith in her was so constant.	2001-01-24
US	51150291	R33NF5Q16BFEJP	0373271263	488722293	The Man for Maggie (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 1056)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Her gift is an inconvenient curse	Maggie Kovacs has had a lot on her plate since her father was killed, not unexpectedly, in an airplane explosion. The last thing she needs is to add more to it but horrific dreams have driven her to confide in an old friend who is persistently suggesting that Maggie tell her supervisor, Detective Sergeant Max Strachan. Max has heard of Maggie's \\"gift\\", which allows her to see things but he's not about to be suckered by a beautiful face. But when Maggie's dreams end up coming true, Max finds himself unable to fall back on his bitter cynicism. <br />Debut author Frances Housden is off to a fantastic start with \\"The Man For Maggie.\\" Her incredible talent is illustrated by her wonderful weaving of plots, however convoluted, and keen edge of suspense which makes this book impossible to put down. Aside from the execution of her intriguing plot, Housden also engages her audience with the development of Maggie and Max's evolving love for each other. Maggie is a strong-willed heroine whose prejudice against cops equals Max's personal resentment towards the supernatural. But in the face of Maggie's evidence, Max becomes a true hero because his mind and heart are open to who and what she is and the strong bond between them.	2001-01-24
US	51150291	R15ZU72O8Y2D7V	0373650671	116674490	The Detective's Dilemma (Maitland Maternity, Book 6)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	She�s not your usual suspect	Detective Ty Redstone realizes this as he questions the beautiful and infectious Beth Maitland. Though all evidence indicates she murdered her ex-fiance's wife in a jealous rage. Ty has problems with just how open and shut the entire case seems. Beth Maitland knows the odds aren't in her favor but she is relying on Ty's fairness and persistent pursuit of justice to uncover the truth behind the murder. Working together to uncover the truth, the stakes grow higher when it becomes apparent that their love for each other is on the line.<br />Arlene James has written a solid and engaging story about a steadfast cop who seeks to clear the wild and impulsive woman he has come to love. Ty is a wonderful hero with a great deal to overcome in terms of social, financial, and cultural differences between the two of them. He not only has to confront the criticism of Beth's upper class society, but also his little brother's disapproval of Beth precipitated by cultural pride. Beth's impulsive and optimistic nature truly complements Ty's nobility of character and goes a long way towards infusing hope for a possible future for them both. But in the end both Ty and Beth prove to be admirable characters that must truly overcome a wide range of obstacles in order to prove their love is strong enough to face all kinds of challenges.	2001-01-24
US	51150291	R3V7N7C5DCLGMD	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Unfortunately for her trouble starts at home	For Mary Russo, home is not where the heart always is. Though she does love her wildly eccentric and well-meaning Italian family, she finds herself suffocating under the pressure of their good intentions and familial expectations. So she decides to break free of the bonds that hold her back and open up a restaurant. It's a chancy endeavor and could conceivably fail, but it is a risk Mary is willing to take. <br />Dan Gallagher finds himself in the temporary role of food editor for the Baltimore Sun newspaper. The sportswriter, resentful about what he sees as a setback in his career is also prejudiced against Italian food. His caustic and sneering criticism of Mary's restaurant leads to a confrontation that only precipitates a flame of attraction that stirs up a tantalizing trouble for Mary that is in a class all its own.<br />Though \\"The Trouble With Mary\\" centers around a loud and boisterous Italian family, Criswell somehow manages to transcend what could be perceived as a narrow slice of the cultural pie. I think the author has written a story that allows readers to look beyond the ethnic background of the Russos and realize that this incredibly dynamic and dysfunctional family is a symptom of what many people have endured and enjoyed though they would never admit it aloud. What Mary's family and her own personal struggle represents is at the core of everyone who has come face to face with the simultaneous resentment and unconditional love that comes from those whom you care about and those who care for you. While Mary's relationship with Dan, and his son, is fairly well written, it is actually Mary and Dan's relationships with the Russo family that provides a strong backbone for this remarkable story. For every person who has tried to understand the concerned criticisms of a mother, the support of a best friend, or the envious love among siblings, this is a story which will move and even disturb you with how accurate a depiction of family life Millie Criswell hasgiven through the evolving relationship between Dan and Mary.	2001-01-20
US	51150291	R17H7ZZJSGQW0L	1551665964	30418259	Bride Of Black Douglas (Mira Historical Romance)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A most convenient marriage	When Lady Meleri Weatherby witnesses her fiance's cruel treatment, she knows she must somehow put an end to their betrothal before he sets a date. But a confrontation compels her to make a rash vow to marry the first man she comes across. It is fortuitous then that she literally runs into Robert Douglas. His impoverished family desperately needs funding and he needs to find a wealthy English bride before the king takes the option to choose away from him. Both Robert and Meleri know that an alliance between the two of them can be of immense benefit but neither can anticipate their growing love for each other.<br />Despite a surprisingly slow start, Elaine Coffman has written a beautiful love story steeped in the richness of the history of the Douglas clan. Meleri has an odd, supernatural connection to the Douglases due to a visiting ghost whom she has seen in her dreams prior to her alliance with Robert. Life with the Douglases proves to be advantageous to Meleri who begins the story as a spirited heroine but eventually becomes a purposeful one. Robert, who is moody and melancholy, overcomes his initial dislike for his English bride and is so moved by her devotion to his family that he finds himself unable to use her as a tool of vengeance for his twin sister's death years ago. \\"The Bride of Black Douglas\\" is not just a love story it is a rich tapestry of history, pride, and family that will succeed in delighting readers.	2001-01-19
US	51150291	RJ4C1ZEUM2WBS	0446608726	236551713	The You I Never Knew	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Reconciling the past	The men in Michelle Turner's life have always been a source of tremendous heartache. Father, boyfriend, son, they were her persistent source of joy, pain, and sorrow. Despite their love for her, they were destined at one time or another to disappoint her. She was driven away by the father she idolized and barely knew when she needed him most. She faced the untimely desertion of the young man she dared to love. And thanks to the surly son he unknowingly bestowed upon her, she is slowly coming to the realization that she is, in a strange inversion when it comes to parenting, repeating her father's mistake. But Michelle is getting something many people don't: a second chance. Her father's illness has her determined to help him initially out of obligation. With her son in tow, she arrives in Crystal City, Montana only to discover her father trying helplessly to breach the gap between them, her ex-boyfriend who has far surpassed her expectations for him, and the truth about her own bitter disappointment in herself in the face of the dream she sacrificed for the three men who are the center of her world. <br />Susan Wigg's venture into the genre of mainstream fiction is a huge success. The story of strong-willed, disillusioned Michelle and the three men who dominate her life will pull at heartstrings and occasionally move you to tears. Michelle is clearly at the heart of this novel and the author explores her relationship with her father Gavin Slade, an aging Hollywood icon, Sam McPhee, her ex-boyfriend, and Cody, their son. Through Michelle, Wiggs explores the multi-faceted feminine dynamic many women will be able to relate to. The pressure of living up to the expectations of a distant, yet revered father and the tragedy of sacrificing one dream to finance reality are issues Wiggs broaches in this extraordinary story. The author also gives us a great deal of insight into Gavin, Sam, Cody, and even Sam's mother, who is a recovering alcoholic. By doing this, she adequatelybalances out the perspective in this story. In addition, we also come to realize the misunderstandings between these characters and the mistakes made, not just by the men in Michelle's life but also by Michelle herself.	2001-01-19
US	51150291	R3K7P98E6JF8YR	0373271182	620676410	Mad Dog And Annie	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Finally a reason for him to stay	When Maddox \\"Mad Dog\\" Palmer returns to Cutler, North Carolina, nothing is as it was. His best friend, Rob, is set to go on trial, the girl he never forgot is a convicted felon now separated from Rob, and Maddox himself has demons to sort out when it comes to his career. So maybe it wasn't a great idea to agree to assist his father with the local law enforcement or to interfere when his best friend asked, or to fall in love with that girl he never forgot. Ann Barclay Cross has no time to think about MD's return. She's working as a waitress as much as she can to pay back an old debt and to put food on the table for her little boy. But MD won't leave her alone and after she confronts her fears, maybe there will come a time when she doesn't want him to.<br />Virginia Kantra has written a wonderful story about a very strong woman and the man who first loves, then admires, her. Both MD and Annie have memories of their childhood living in Rob's shadow, but it is their future that is now in jeopardy due to the same man. With MD's help, the local police soon come to realize the threat Rob truly poses to MD, Ann, and her son Mitch. Kantra effectively touches upon and explores the repercussions of domestic abuse through Annie and Mitch, making them unforgettable characters as they deal with their fears and their need to protect each other. MD is a strong and purposeful hero who sees beyond Rob's golden-boy image to the monster he truly is and he is determined to protect the woman and child he loves.	2001-01-19
US	51150291	R1QXPF4GLAY103	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A remarkable road trip	With the death of her husband, Cornelia Litchfield Case had thought she'd escaped the pressures of political life. But it was not to be. Continuing her role as First Lady for the new, unmarried president has taken its toll and Nealy decides she needs time off from her life of political obligation, social expectations, and public scrutiny. After careful planning, she escapes detection and finds herself unshackled from her burden. In complete contrast, Mat Jorik finds himself saddled with two daughters who aren't truly his because of his own soft heart. When Nealy reprimands him for leaving the baby unattended, he offers the now immobile woman a job caring for the girls in exchange for room and board inside Mabel, their Winnebago. <br />Susan Elizabeth Phillips has written a sensational story that truly crosses the border into women's fiction. The romance is underdeveloped but the evolving affection between Nealy, Mat, and the girls is wonderfully written. Phillips does an excellent job of developing this foursome into an odd patchwork of a family by giving us insight into Lucy whose adolescence puts her at an awkward stage but whose love for her baby sister takes precedence above everything else. As a romance \\"First Lady\\" is perhaps not the best, but seeing it through the eyes of Nealy makes it a wonderful journey of self-discovery.	2001-01-19
US	51150291	R3FZE303Q9PIYX	0373271247	899705185	Awakening Alex (The Sullivan Sisters) (Silhouette Intimate Moments # 1054)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very promising start	New York City police captain, Grant Malone finds himself in need of a refuge in order to heal his troubled spirit. At the behest of his grandfather, he arrives at the Snug Harbor Lodge for a stay of indeterminate length. Pursued by nightmares, he's not fully convinced that time will heal him but what time can't do, Alexandra Sullivan will. During the off-season, Alex enjoys the isolation of the lodge but she's willing to tolerate the disturbance initially for her grandfather's sake. But there is something about Grant that draws out Alex's intrinsic need to heal. The question is whether or not she is ready for the toll it takes on her heart.<br />\\"Awakening Alex\\" begins Ruth Langan's new Sullivan Sisters trilogy quite successfully. The Snug Harbor Lodge provides the perfect backdrop for these two characters to get to know one another. Langan does a beautiful job of painting a picture of the Lodge's landscape. She also does a great job of developing the relationship between Grant and Alex as well. Grant truly begins the story as a tortured hero but he finds a great deal of comfort in Alex's company as well as her friendship. Perhaps the one flaw with this story is the rather sudden and unexpected turn in plot, which finds its roots in Grant's pain but seems out of place due to a lack of continuity. All the same, this is a terrific beginning and I'm looking forward to reading more of the Sullivan Sisters.	2001-01-17
US	51150291	R3209AJKG882D	0373271212	519680085	Never Been Kissed (Those Marrying Mcbrides!)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A fulfilling conclusion	Eight months ago, Reilly Jones lost his wife in a tragic accident and has never been the same since. His brother's concern for him drives him to Liberty Hill, Colorado to attempt to make a fresh, if isolated new start. He's determined to remain indifferent to the locals and to sidestep the voracious single women who see him as perfect husband material. He's content to steep himself in the ever-present grief and love he bears for his dead wife. Nurse Janey McBride has a generous heart, so when an old friend of the family asks her to befriend the new doctor in town, she's more than happy to put forth the effort until Reilly accuses her of setting her sights on him. Used to the obscurity her plain face provides, she is shocked that he would think her capable of being so mercenary.<br />Linda Turner's conclusion to her mini-series Those Marrying McBrides is wonderfully executed. Reilly Jones is a man suffering from a broken heart who wants to disconnect himself from life. But the people of Liberty Hill refuse to let him with their small-town nosiness and genuine concern. Though his grief makes him bitter and judgmental, he sees a great deal to admire in Janey and develops a strong friendship with her. Janey is adored by the people in town both as a McBride as well as a caring nurse. She goes the extra mile to see to the elderly and they, in turn, demonstrate their love and appreciation in delightful ways. There is also a parallel romance for Janey's mother, Sara, and the local doctor, both of whom help Reilly past his grief with their own insight and first-hand experience. In addition, Reilly and Janey's friendship provides a strong backbone for their gradually developing awareness and love for one another.	2001-01-17
US	51150291	R2BP9MPERSZU43	0373271220	252075162	Spy Who Loved Him (A Year Of Loving Dangerously)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Looking beyond the surface	Though he would like to think otherwise, there is more to Margarita Alfonsa de las Fuentes than Deputy Minister of Defense, Carlos Caballero can admit to. He sees a beautiful and willful woman who is strong and impassioned about improving their country, Madrileno. What Margarita can never reveal, however, is her loyalty to the American-based SPEAR organization, which is in the process of tracking down a traitor. To the strong-willed Margarita, Carlos's cool and controlled courtship leaves a lot to be desired. It is only when the two must survive together in Madrileno's dangerous jungle that Carlos reveals a side of himself that intrigues and fascinates the SPEAR agent.<br />Merline Lovelace's installment of the Year of Loving Dangerously series has all the components of an excellent romance. The hero and heroine are complex enough to yield a satisfying development when it comes to their relationship. The overarching subplot involving Simon is built upon rather well and there is enough danger and action without the traitor complete with details about the danger the jungle poses to both protagonists. The one fault with this story lies in its length. The reader gets the impression that Lovelace could have expanded even more upon the romance if she'd had the opportunity to write a longer story. As it is, however, this story gives an interesting, if rather brief, glance at an imaginary country with a great deal of potential.	2001-01-17
US	51150291	R2QOLO647O2K8D	0373650515	570027462	Baby Quest (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	In search of her niece	Following the death of her little sister, Christina, Rachel Montgomery is determined to find her sister's child and to care for her. Besieged with guilt because of her inaccessibility to Christina, Rachel is not only trying to make amends, she is also trying to locate and hold on to the last part of her sister. But Rachel knows she needs help and it comes in the form of Jack Henderson, a California-based detective who has been called in by his sister to locate the missing baby. Having come from a broken family himself, Jack helps Rachel deal with her guilt and feelings of inadequacy when it comes to how she could have helped Christina. In Jack, Rachel finds a steady, intelligent, and attractive man who has painful secrets of his own. <br />Pat Warren has written a fluid story about two people who share a common family background but who have dealt with it in different ways. The title of the story is misleading because although the quest to find the baby is what brings Jack and Rachel together, it never develops into a full-fledged search. Instead, Warren focuses on Jack and Rachel and how they help each other deal with their pasts and whether or not they will be able to have a future together. Both Jack and Rachel are strongly drawn characters and the book doesn't falter when it comes to their relationship. I was a bit disappointed, however, when the search for the baby wasn't spun out better. Instead, it seemed to be used merely as an inadequate plot device since this story does well just the way it is.	2001-01-10
US	51150291	R9F3CNE7PRS4B	0373650523	774484432	It Happened One Wedding Night (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An engaging read	On the night of their siblings' wedding, Ryder Redstone and Daisy Harding unknowingly created a child together and went their separate ways. Daisy returned to her life as a mousy teacher and Ryder returned to his life on the road with a multitude of women. Or at least they tried to. A few months later, Daisy is fired for her unwed pregnancy and heads to Whitehorn to spend time with her sister. Ryder returns as a favor to his brother to help out around the ranch. Now the two must deal with the repercussions of that evening.<br />Karen Hughes has written a story with an engaging style and even more engaging characters. Daisy isn't blatantly beautiful and Ryder is not as careless as he seems. There is a lot more to them than meets the eyes and Hughes illustrates this throughout the story. I really found a lot to admire about Daisy though her denial of Ryder as the father is patently false. Her denial gradually grows irrational and even irritating. Quite surprisingly, Ryder was the more admirable of the two because of his patience, his concern for her, and ultimately because of his love. He is willing to set a lot of his pride aside for Daisy, which clearly wasn't an easy thing for him. He was also ready to make sacrifices for himself for the sake of his child and he had a great deal of faith in Daisy while she continuously second-guessed him even in the face of his devotion to her.	2001-01-10
US	51150291	R12QY4AIA73UG5	0373763360	64390343	Groom Of Fortune (Fortune's Children) (Silhouette Desire, No 1336)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A surprising twist in plot	Isabelle Fortune, sheltered heiress that she is, is not stupid. When she overhears two men at her wedding talking rather incriminatingly of her fiancé, she runs away fearing for her life. Link Templeton, the detective assigned to the murder of Mike Dodd was on his way to the church to stop Isabelle from marrying a suspected killer. When he witnesses the bride's escape, he follows her and eventually teams up with her, lying low in a remote cabin, to resolve the case and explore the strange attraction that lies between them. <br />Peggy Moreland has written a conclusion to this Fortune mini-series that is filled with a surprising amount of depth where the plot is concerned. Because of the large age gap and social differences between Link and Isabelle, Moreland employs a plot involving Isabelle's past to join them together in a remarkable way. Isabelle is very young but the betrayal of her fiancé shakes her up in many ways. She is accustomed to doing as her family expects, including marrying a man she doesn't love, but in Link she finds a man she unexpectedly loves and is willing to fight for. It is hard not to admire her for this. Link is troubled by his persistent connection to this young woman and the fact that he can't seem to escape her. Link is admirable for both his love for Isabelle and the selflessness it develops in his character. I wish I could tell you more about the wonderful use of plot employed in this story but I wouldn't want to ruin this fine conclusion.	2001-01-10
US	51150291	R1E7518Q3V9738	0373271166	863070773	Strangers When We Married (A Year Of Loving Dangerously)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	They refused to compromise	SPEAR agent Seth Greene goes AWOL when he leaves the resort, where he was recuperating, and heads back into action to locate the elusive traitor he nearly had. He knows he needs help and so he seeks assistance from another SPEAR agent Meghan Greene, his ex-wife. When Seth and Meghan divorced, she thought she'd never see him again. The passion she shared with him could not stand against the difficulties they had making their marriage work. Now Seth needs her help which wouldn't be a problem if not for their son whom she fears Seth will become attached to despite his promise to stay away.<br />Carla Cassidy's installment has very little action involved where the plot is concerned. Instead, she focuses on Seth and Meghan who now feel compelled to try to understand what went wrong with their marriage. There isn't any real secrecy as to their problem. A serious lack of communication on the part of both agents is at the root of all their troubles as they try to locate Simon and deal with Seth's growing affection for his son. The pace of the story is rather slow as is the redevelopment of their relationship. In the end, the story is rewarding and the plot somewhat engaging. The characters are easy to sympathize with but the pace combined with the irrational lack of communication between the two leaves this installment slightly lacking without the benefit of any real action. Though the reader learns plenty about Seth and Meghan through their points of view, it is a shame it took so long to share their feelings and concerns with each other.	2001-01-08
US	51150291	R3DC0XQG7CQUS6	0373650663	657786635	Prescription: Baby (Maitland Maternity, Book 5)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An ironically poignant story	After one unforgettable night, Dr. Ford Carrington wants to resume his stalled relationship with Nurse Katie Topper. A byproduct of an affluent yet tragic upbringing, he knows it is too much to hope she could ever love him. He couldn't be more incorrect. Katie has loved Ford for a long while now but is convinced her affectioante and rowdy family would be an affront to the high class society Ford is a part of. But when she finds herself expecting his child, she is forced to admit that they must put the welfare of their child above everything else.<br />Though it is true that the author is trying to accomplish a lot in this story, notwithstanding developing a credible romance between the hero and heroine, Jule McBride's installment of this Maitland Maternity series is rich with irony and proves to be incredibly poignant. Both Ford and Katie are fundamentally nice and intelligent people who are genuinely committed to doing what is best for children in general to say nothing of their own. Though they harbor a great deal of affection for each other, Ford's disenchantment with his parents leads him to believe he could never truly make Katie happy though it is what he wants. Katie, in turn, would like to understand the rift and try to mend it. She succeeds in doing this in an unexpected way. I really enjoyed this story though at first it seemed to be more Ford's story than anything else. McBride throws in a huge surprise that turns the direction of the story neatly on its head. This is a well-rounded tale with strong, engaging, and sympathetic characters which you will enjoy.	2001-01-08
US	51150291	R2OKMFE6YON1CL	1551665344	131807925	Horsemasters Daughter (MIRA)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Her talent for healing goes beyond horses	Eliza Flyte wouldn't know this though. She's barely been around people. All of her life has been spent in seclusion with her reclusive father, a horsemaster renown for his uncanny ability to tame wild horses, who retired from England to Flyte Island to raise his daughter. When he was unexpectedly killed, presumably for his witch-like talent, his daughter, Eliza continued on alone on the island, saddened by her loss but soothed by the memories of her father, which she associates with the island. But her isolation is intruded upon when plantation owner, Hunter Calhoun, arrives on the island in search for her father.<br />Hunter Calhoun's last hope is the horsemaster, Henry Flyte. The horse he purchased from Ireland, to save his family from financial ruin, arrived in a maddened state and has been deemed a menace. The horse has already killed a mare and maimed a man. But when he hears of Henry Flyte, he decides to give the horse one last chance. When he arrives on Flyte Island only to discover the Horsemaster's daughter, Hunter is fully prepared to kill the horse. But Eliza prevents him from doing so and eventually teaches him what her father taught her: the secret to healing a broken horse.<br />The Horsemaster's Daughter is a wonderful story about a girl who, unaffected by society's narrow-mindedness, infuses a man with hope even while she frustrates him with her self-confidence. Susan Wiggs has done a terrific job of illustrating how Eliza's power to heal horses can also be used to heal people. As Eliza demonstrates, the key is patience and understanding. Eliza displays these traits in spades when she is forced to leave Flyte Island and travel to Albion with Hunter. Eliza is a simple girl and she doesn't understand the malice of Hunter's society friends who are amazed by her and cruel when it comes to her ignorance of their ways. Even Hunter is at times impatient when it comes to her unsophisticated way of thinking. But Hunter has problems of his own. His children haven't been the same since his wife's death and he is resentful of his father who gave him a life full of high expectations but left him with nothing but a bitter reality. But with Eliza's help, Hunter and his children reconnect and learn to embrace life and love once again.	2000-12-27
US	51150291	RFDQYZW2T2PF	1551664917	66831105	The Charm School	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It was all a matter of time and circumstance	For Isadora Peabody, life consisted of being invisible and struggling to remain invisible. A dark changeling, all of Boston wondered how she fit in with her golden family. Trained by a scholarly aunt, Isadora learned to value her mind but she couldn't help but want to find her place among her family and their friends. Unfortunately, when society wasn't ignoring her, they were sneering at her. And although her heart was set on one man, he barely knew of her existence. But she was determined to prove her value to him by working on one of his father's ships as an interpreter. Hired sea captain Ryan Calhoun has no time to indulge a society girl. This hedonistic man who initially cows Isadora is more than what he seems. He walks a fine line between being a ship's captain and being an active Abolitionist. But as he comes to understand the stifled Isadora and watches her thrive on board their ship, he begins to see that all she needs is the time and the place to bloom properly in order to find her niche. Despite all odds, he witnesses and participates in her transformation aboard his ship and among his crew.<br />Susan Wiggs has written an emotional story based on the timeless tale, \\"The Ugly Duckling\\". For Isadora, Boston is a place where she is never healthy, where she is clumsy and repressed. Initially, aboard the ship, she is the same and she refuses to cast aside her Boston propriety. But as she finds an assortment of unlikely friends on board the ship and as she discovers her own purpose, Isadora blooms under the approval and admiration of the salty sailors who teach her to dance, give her lessons in decorum, and whom she helps in turn. But no one helps her find her self-confidence as much as Ryan who, with his intolerance for her delicate sensibilities, compels her to increase her capabilities and to be a useful member aboard his ship. As they come to know each other, they find themselves engaging in an unexpected friendship and experimenting with a mutual attraction for each other, which they both believe will sail its course. What Isadora learns from Ryan's charm school is much more than proper etiquette; she learns, instead, to believe in herself and to be comfortable in her own skin. And Ryan's acceptance of Isadora as she fundamentally is makes him an admirably unforgettable hero.	2000-12-27
US	51150291	R33QKI2NIPFLU	0312966806	74138788	Tell Me Lies	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sometimes unbelievable, sometimes inconceivable	Things are going well in Maddie Farraday's rather humdrum life until she finds incriminating evidence of her husband's infidelity underneath the driver's seat of his car. From there, her life goes downhill. Her daughter badly wants a dog, her overprotective mother keeps calling, her best friend is keeping secrets from her, and the boy who had a crush on her back in high school is back in town with an agenda all his own. C.L. Sturgis returns to Frog Point with the intention of checking Brent Farraday's company books for his ex-wife whose fiance has bought in to Farraday's company. When he arrives in town, it is to find the girl he loved unhappy and upset, his target elusive, and himself falling in love all over again.<br />Jennifer Crusie has written an interesting, if somewhat unbelievable story involving the community of Frog Point. Everyone has a secret of some sort and oddly enough, it is Brent Farraday's untimely demise that uncovers some of them,the rest are aired through the community via gossip, most notably by Maddie's own mother. Looking back, after having read the entire novel, it almost seems as though the author has constructed two separate plot lines and woven them together. Rather than blend comfortably, the fit is awkward and inappropriate. The plot involving Brent's murder seems to be a story all its own at some points even though Maddie is a convenient, if somewhat absurd, patsy. And then there is the plot involving Maddie and C.L. which finds a multiple purpose of developing their relationship and also providing several motives. Even though the reasoning behind the plot seems plausible, the actions of the characters are not and this makes the story feel ultimately contrived. Plus, the viciousness of this town is enough to make the reader sympathize unexpectedly with Maddie's husband. Crusie does insert moments of hilarity and humor into Maddie's story and in the beginning it works. But as the town begins to reveal its darker side through criticism,jealousy, betrayal, and judgment, it becomes harder and harder to alleviate the heavy plot with Crusie's usual wit. Though &quot;Tell Me Lies&quot; is by no means a poorly written story, it is not her best work. For a better example of Crusie's talent, try &quot;Manhunting&quot; and &quot;Crazy For You&quot;.	2000-12-21
US	51150291	R3T0X0NXP62L5D	0312971125	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A story replete with memorable characters	When a student holds out a stray dog to her, High School Art teacher, Quinn McKenzie can't help but embrace the creature into her arms and welcome it into her life. Katie soon becomes inseparable much to the despair of friends and family alike. But when her staid boyfriend steals Katie and has her impounded, Quinn realizes she has had enough and moves out. Bent on changing her life rather than bending to the whims of others, as has been her habit, Quinn begins to assert herself; a contagion that quickly spreads itself among her friends and family revealing sides of themselves she never even knew. <br />Nick Ziegler has known Quinn for nearly two decades and he has loved her as a sister for nearly that long. Or at least he's tried. It's always been easy to keep his ex-sister-in-law in the role of best friend because she was always involved in a long-term relationship. But ever since the &quot;rat on stilts&quot; entered her life, things haven't been the same. Quinn has left her boyfriend which has Nick realizing that without an obstacle between the two of them, there is even more of an opportunity for the two of them to acknowledge the repressed attraction they feel for each other, forcing him to question whether acting on it is worth the price of their friendship.<br />Jennifer Crusie has written an incredibly funny and sometimes poignant book that seems to echo some of the sentiment derived from the saying, &quot;Men are from Mars and Women are from Venus.&quot; While Quinn and Nick are the protagonists of this novel, it is easy to see that they also become unwitting role models for the women and men of their town. When Quinn leaves her boyfriend because he doesn't &quot;see&quot; her, her mother and her best friend also realize that they are disappearing in the face of their marriage. All three women have varying ways of dealing with the situation, some poignant, some hilarious. When their women defect, the men follow Nick's knack for remaining uninvolved. This story could be seen as farcical or as simply a wicked parody if it didn't have so many truths ringing solidly behind it. Instead of appearing slapstick and over the top, it is humorous but never loses its sense of depth. In addition, the characters never lose sense of their integrity when it comes to the story as a whole. Instead, Crusie has woven a story with relationship at the heart of it but with a slight emphasis on social commentary. For instance, instead of making the narration one-sided in favor of the women, the author also offers some perspective from the viewpoint of her male characters in order to reveal to readers their inability, initial or perpetual, to understand their girlfriend's or wives' dissatisfaction. This offers a wonderful balance to what might have been merely a slapstick romantic comedy.	2000-12-20
US	51150291	R1QYW1UHKY09TX	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	It would have been wonderful	Darcy Gallagher is a woman who knows exactly what she wants. She wants fame. She wants fortune. She wants a man to provide it for her. And she makes it clear to everyone that she will get that. With her beauty and her charm, which are balanced by an inordinate amount of pride and arrogance, Darcy oversees the service at her family's pub. She is not simply a barmaid. She is so much more. Trevor Magee can see that. Aside from her beauty and her arrogance, which fascinate him to no end, he sees a market for her stunningly rich voice. He could make her famous. He knows it's what she wants. But as the two struggle with and indulge in the attraction they bear for one another, they come to realize that what they say they want is not their true hearts' desire. As if being confused by their unexpected feelings for each other is not enough, a faerie prince is pulling all the strings he can to make sure they fulfill their part of the legend. <br />This conclusion to Nora Roberts' Waterford trilogy is wonderfully written where style comes into play. Although some of the dream sequences are a little too trite, she has integrated them well into a solidly written story and the legend she has created for these characters. Because the legend of Carrick and Gwen has stretched across the two preceding stories, Roberts' audience has come to care for them as if they were main characters themselves. I was somewhat disappointed with her treatment of them overall simply because I felt they were shortchanged in the end. In addition, Darcy Gallagher was a character that elicited a mixed reaction from me, most of which was unfavorable. Though I appreciated her emotional comeuppance, I wasn't quite sure what she brought to the relationship though it remains clear the part she played in fulfilling the legend. The best part of this story, however, is Trevor Magee. When he comes to Ireland, he is a man with the supposedly linear purpose of building his theater. But what Darcy and the reader soonlearn of Trevor is that behind the successful businessman lies a man who is in search of his roots. When Trevor opens himself up to the community of Ardmore, he opens himself up to the possibility of its magic as well. And in pushing aside his initial distance, Trevor becomes more a part of that community than he ever anticipated. Most of all, he is to be admired for loving Darcy despite the fact that she deliberately, and continuously, misrepresents herself and expects him to understand her in spite of it.	2000-12-14
US	51150291	R2CBXKX6K5RZ9E	0373271107	519283938	Hero at Large (A Year of Loving Dangerously) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 1040)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The price of his pretense	SPEAR Agent Keshon Gray had returned to his roots when he was assigned to capture the traitor Simon in Los Angeles. Working as a bouncer for the Ocean Nightclub, he has reunited with some old gang members in order to establish his reputation and eventually lure Simon to him. The plan was going smoothly until he ran into the best part of his past. Rennie Williams had escaped the misery and poverty of her youth. Rising above that as a psychologist at a Health Center in Los Angeles, she helps abused women. A girls' night out brought her to Ocean and Gray whose unexpected presence rekindled memories of old dreams, an old friendship, and an uncanny spiritual connection. <br />Robyn Amos has written a jarring installment through her contribution to the \\"Year of Loving Dangerously\\" series. She takes her readers to the darker side of Los Angeles and opens up our eyes, through Rennie and Gray's shared past, to the danger of gangs, their violence, and treachery. Simon is not the only danger Gray must overcome. The arrival of his old gang leader adds another edge to the story and an additional tie to Rennie whose brother, Jacob, was also a part of the gang with Gray. Rennie is a strong and determined heroine. She walked away from Gray once but she recognizes her mistake and she's not about to let him get away now that she's found him. She wants to help him but knows better than to treat him as any ordinary case study. Gray, through the duration of the book, does indeed \\"spread\\" himself thin when he finds himself torn between his promises to his old gang members, his conflict with their leader, his concern for Rennie, and his job as an undercover agent. In fact, he is spread so thin throughout the book that it was a bit hard to get a handle on him as a character. He is everywhere at once, trying to save everyone but himself, and this does indeed illustrate him as a stereotypical hero. He almost seems two-dimensional when compared to Rennie whose thoughts we are frequently in tune with but has a lot less to deal with by comparison. This is a good story, which paints an eerily believable picture of the seamier side to Los Angeles living. It has a strong and compassionate heroine and a hero who can truly be admired.	2000-12-13
US	51150291	R1O3CTUO0W6OL4	0373763301	5816912	Husband---Or Enemy? (Silhouette Desire No. 1330)(Fortune's Children)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A misleading title	Riley Fortune is out on bail though he is being charged with the murder of Mike Dodd, a young construction worker. Months ago, when the tragic \\"accident\\" occurred on the site of the new medical center, Riley went the extra mile to comfort Angelica Dodd, sister to the victim. He discontinued contact with her the morning after. Now, months later, he finds himself an expectant father and unable to use his legendary charm to persuade the hard-working waitress to marry him for the sake of their child. Angelica was crushed by Riley's disappearance but she forced herself to go on alone. But now that Riley has discovered the existence of their child, she finds herself plagued by his constant presence and all too tempted to give in to his proposal.<br />The title of this story is certainly misleading. Whether Riley is truly Angelica's enemy is never in question because it is not murder that stands between them. Instead, it is the circumstances surrounding their night together that get in the way of the development of their relationship. Riley is a man who is known for being selfish but there is a gentleness he hides, which Angelica initially brought out upon her brother's death. Throughout the story, Angelica tries to reconcile the Riley she loves with the black reputation he has supposedly earned. Though she uncovers evidence concerning her brother's murder, that aspect of the story remains secondary to the bond that develops between her and Riley. Cross displays ample talent in writing this story of a man who is more than he seems and the woman who is able to see exactly what he is.	2000-12-13
US	51150291	RI77U7V84XLM4	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	His family line would end with him	Simon Basset, Earl Clyvedon, grew up believing this to be true. Troubled by a stutter, disdained and cursed by his father, Simon strove to overcome the obstacles before him and to eventually make his father proud. His father's intolerance, however, drove him to do everything possible to shame his father with his activities and to flout his obligation to his family. But upon his father's death, years later, Simon reluctantly returns to England to assume his father's title and responsibilities. He is determined, however, not to let the Basset line continue. To him, this is the ultimate means of revenge against the father who continued to scorn him. He does, however, resume his friendship with his old school chums, most notably Viscount Bridgerton who warns him about the ambitious mothers of England who are trying to foist their young, single daughters upon wealthy, titled men such as themselves. <br />Among these ambitious mothers and single daughters lie Viscount Bridgerton's own mother and sister. Daphne Bridgerton is into her second season and though the eligible bachelors like her they do not adore her. But when she meets the new Duke of Hastings she agrees to a proposition that will be advantageous to them both. If it works, Simon will not have to worry about the ambitious mothers and Daphne will have a slew of potential suitors thanks to the attentions of the duke. <br />Julia Quinn has written a brilliant, witty, and engaging story about two people who strike a deal with each other and become fast friends because of it. To Simon, Daphne is the best woman. He can be himself around her and not have to worry about his inadequacies. His primary concern is his unexpected and unwanted attraction to her. Daphne is drawn to the duke as well but she finds herself comfortable with their friendship. This is one of the best aspects of this story. And as Daphne finds herself falling in love with Simon, she worries about his unwillingness to marry, his supposed inability togive her children, and the possibility that he will never love her in return. One of the more poignant situations in this story stems from the fact that Simon is not the only one who is afflicted by the attraction between the two. Anthony, Viscount Bridgerton, senses from the beginning what Simon and Daphne do not. Where they see their plan as being advantageous, he sees it as being explosive. And as the story unfolds, his longtime friendship with Simon is also put to the test because of the chemistry between his friend and his sister. Quinn's handling of both Simon and Daphne's respective relationships with Viscount Bridgerton expands the reader's understanding of these characters and adds an added dimension to this wonderful love story.	2000-12-13
US	51150291	R3R9C30F930HRZ	0373271093	906702159	Brands Who Came for Christmas (The Oklahoma All-Girl Brands) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1039)	Books	4	68	72	N	N	Her plans were ruined by a mysterious drifter	Maya Brand had a plan. It wasn't a big plan by anyone's standards, but it was her own personal ambition to rise above the stigma placed on her mother and sisters due to the scandal surrounding her father's bigamy and criminal activities. She was on the brink of succeeding when she succumbed to the endearing charm of a drifter she only knew as Caleb. When he left town without a word, she would have renewed her efforts to fulfill her plan. Only, she discovered she was pregnant with his child. For Cain Caleb Montgomery III, life was set. His political ambitions were directed by a group of advisers and his father. In fact, he began to feel unnecessary. In a moment of superfluity, he began to question the purpose of his life. Determined to abandon his responsibilities for a night, he drove himself right into Maya's unsuspecting heart. <br />Maggie Shayne has written a heartwarming spin-off to her Texas Brand series. This family of five daughters and one brash mother has clearly been through a lot thanks to Maya's father. And his betrayal has affected the six women in different ways. Because of this background, it becomes very hard for Maya to accept Caleb when the truth comes out that he is anything but a drifter. But he is determined not to abandon her and their children. Both Maya and Caleb are admirable characters who feel a heavy sense of responsibility. They are both seemingly conservative despite Maya's outlandish but loving family. Surprisingly enough, it isn't Caleb who is closed off to the idea of love. Instead, he embraces the time he had with Maya as something he longs to recapture because of its simplicity. Maya, on the other hand, is initially unimpressed with the dual picture Caleb presents and it does take a while for her to overcome her distrust. This is the story of two people who come from very different upbringings and must, therefore, deal with both their pasts and the direction of their future. They are both determined to protect their children and with the help of Maya's family, they might just open their hearts to the love they feel for each other.	2000-12-11
US	51150291	R3LV6RW1H9O1TF	0373511205	977357997	Scandalized! (Readers Choice)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Mixing business with pleasure	In a reversal of roles, hotelier, Tony Austin wants a child and he's carefully chosen Olivia Anderson to produce that child for him. It was supposed to be a cut and dried business deal with little interaction between the two and no hint of scandal. But like all best-laid plans, Tony and Olivia's business deal becomes unexpectedly personal. For Olivia, a woman with no family and a tragic secret, her business is everything. She has no time for a man much less a child. When Tony puts forth his proposition, she modifies the plan to better suit their unexpected attraction for each other before agreeing. <br />This reissue of Lori Foster's earlier work appeases readers who have found it difficult to get a hold these titles. It reveals what we already know of her incredible talent when it comes to drawing strong, driven characters. It also employs a wonderful use of the Austin family whose concern for Tony and Olivia is both comic and heartwarming. In addition, the development of Tony and Olivia's relationship, from business to personal, is both wry and moving. Both characters are engaging and admirable despite the utilitarian origin of their deal.	2000-12-11
US	51150291	R11N1OJ0Y83KYD	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	an engaging and moving story	At the age of eighteen, Anthony Bridgerton, the byproduct of a loving home and family, lost his anchor. His father's death, at the age of thirty-eight, brought about a terrible sense of his own mortality. From that day forward, Anthony has been convinced that he could never surpass his father's greatness much less outlive the man. Eleven years later, he has become absorbed with his devotion to his family and to the pursuit of his own pleasures, when time allows. But now, after years of living as a rake, he is determined to settle down and provide an heir. The one thing he is sure of, certain of his impending death, is that he will not marry for love. <br />Though Anthony sets his sights on the beautiful Edwina Sheffield, he has an incredible obstacle in front of him. Kate Sheffield is convinced that reformation could never redeem a rake of Anthony's caliber and she is set on deterring him from his goal of making Edwina his wife. At odds with each other from their first inauspicious encounter, Anthony and Kate battle each other; initially because of Edwina but soon for the challenge they see in each other. Gradually, as they come to know and understand each other, a reluctant admiration, attraction, and friendship for each other develops into something beyond their control. <br />Julia Quinn first delighted readers with the Bridgerton family in &quot;The Duke and I&quot;. Here she picks up with Anthony, the head of the family, whose devotion to his family is admirable and heartfelt. Raised by a warm and loving family, protecting them comes naturally to him. Initially, what Kate sees when she looks at the viscount is what the infamous columnist Lady Whistledown sees. She is so caught up with his reputation as a rake that she blinds herself to any substance he might present. But as she encounters him again and again, as she faces off against him repeatedly, and as she gradually comes to understand the man who willingly shoulders so much responsibility, she finds herself drawn to him. Anthony's first impression of Kate is by no means an admirable one. He is convinced that she is jealous of her sister's beauty and resentful of the sway Kate holds over her sister's judgment. But when he realizes that Kate's love for her stepmother and half-sister stems from true familial love, he realizes that there is much more to her than meets the eye. Quinn has outdone herself with &quot;The Viscount Who Loved Me&quot;. It is an extraordinary tale of two people who have much more in common than they initially suspect. Through attraction, admiration, love, and friendship, they help each other to overcome their personal demons and to embrace life and all it has to offer.	2000-12-06
US	51150291	R3BK5DIIRGNRJJ	0373763247	427871419	Fortune's Secret Child (Fortune's Children, The Grooms) (Silhouette Desire, No. 1324)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	His hasty judgment had more consequences than he knew	Upon her return to Pueblo, Arizona, Cynthia McCree needed a temporary place to stay in order to handle her father's estate. Always happy to help, Kate Fortune directed an unknowing Cynthia and her son, Bobby, to the home of Dr. Shane Fortune. Shane is shocked to see Cynthia six years after he summarily dismissed her from his life. He is even more surprised to find her with a five-year old son. Though their reunion begins precariously, Cynthia soon finds herself battling her attraction for Shane while Shane speculates on Bobby's paternity.<br />Shawna Delacorte continues the Fortune's Children: The Grooms series where it left off last month. Her narrative is fluid and engaging though her point of view shifts quickly from one character to another rather abruptly. This disrupts the narrative and makes it difficult for the reader to adequately understand her characters sense of development. As a result, it was a bit hard to sympathize with either Shane or Cynthia. Cynthia is a strong character through her devotion to her son. This devotion is unswerving. Instead, it is Shane who needs to learn from his hasty judgment six years ago. Instead of learning, however, it seems as though Cynthia and Bobby's love and admiration for him is a stroke of good fortune which he takes advantage of.	2000-11-28
US	51150291	R8TU2OJSOFWC0	0380802457	39359949	In the Still of the Night (Grace & Favor Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The party should have gone off without a hitch	For Robert and Lily Brewster, the planned gathering at Grace and Favor Cottage held the possibility of a living. For the guests, both honored and paying, it turned into something gelse entirely. Lily's hopes for the literary gathering featuring author, Julian West, are thwarted when one of their guests turns up dead and the much-valued manuscript of another disappears. When it appeals the two incidents might be linked, the brother and sister duo find themselves on the hunt for another killer in order to preserve their aspirations for their inherited cottage. <br />Jill Churchill displays a stunning ability to integrate the history of the 1930's with the fiction she writes. This is perhaps the story's greatest recommendation. The mystery itself is thin and while suspenseful, it also becomes somewhat predictable. What the mystery has to recommend itself are the strongly drawn characters with interesting quirks of credible motives. I did enjoy Lily's guests, but perhaps the most entertaining of them all was Robert's \\"idiot\\", Mad Henry, whose skill, or lack thereof, as an inventor, proves to be a constant source of irritation and bafflement for Lily though it ends up paying off in the end.	2000-11-28
US	51150291	RPB3AJCKQXBW6	0373271042	502759665	Her Secret Weapon (Silhouette Intimate Moments #1034) (A Year of Loving Dangerously)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The night he cannot remember or forget	For Callie Severin, her job as an assistant for Burke Lonigan served two purposes. One is to provide for her child, the other is to become acquainted with her baby's father in order to determine whether is he is a decent man and therefore worthy of knowing he has fathered a child. Burke Lonigan is drawn to his assistant but remains haunted by the memory of an elusive woman he has shared one night with nearly two years ago. Right now, however, his priority is to deal with Simon by using the reputation he has cultivated as an arms dealer for his cover as a SPEAR Agent. <br />Beverly Barton continues the 'Year of Loving Dangerously' series from where it left off last month. Though this installment does not live up to its predecessors in terms of plot and characters, it has much to recommend it due to Barton's style, which is engaging and edgy when it comes to Burke and Callie's relationship. But this edgy quality falls short where the overarching plot involving Simon is concerned. As it is, the story is a well-written one, but because it does so little to integrate itself into the plot involving the traitor as the others did, it does not quite live up to the standards set by the preceding installments.	2000-11-28
US	51150291	R6H4K8LOA45WP	0373650655	85668802	Just for Christmas (Maitland Maternity, Book 4)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	They needed a miracle	Drake Logan is successful as the financial administrator for the Maitland Maternity Clinic. It's his relationship with his wife, Hope that seems hopeless. Determined to remain childless for her sake, as well as his, his marriage to his beloved wife is in peril and he finds himself unable to do anything to improve matters. But when Hope unexpectedly asks him to come back home to help her care for his nephew Stevie, Drake finds himself drawn into the pretense of acting as a loving couple for the sake of his nephew. When Hope Logan looks at Stevie, she sees a shadow of Drake. The neglected and unloved child blooms under their attention and fuels Hope's dream of reconciling with her husband and finally having a child of their own.<br />Stella Bagwell's installment of the Maitland Maternity series is strongly written and well developed. Instead of focusing on the abandoned baby, the Logans distance from the Maitlands allows for a much-needed objective approach to the situation, which both Drake and Hope provide. In addition, Bagwell employs the use of Stevie in a realistic manner and allows him to truly develop under the Logans care. Instead of remaining a tool, Stevie is allowed to grow though we are never allowed access to his thoughts. The author does allow us plenty of access into Drake's thoughts, which makes it possible to understand some of his more harsh reactions when it comes to his wife whom he loves. Drake is not an easy character to warm up to but it is not at all hard to sympathize with him. In addition, Hope is a strong heroine who isn't afraid to confront her husband. One of the best aspects of this story, however, is Drake and Hope's extraordinary ability to admit to self-doubt. Rather than deny that they are the root of the problem, they do question whether they are demanding too much of each other. By doing this, Bagwell illustrates an inherently strong foundation when it comes to their marriage.	2000-11-22
US	51150291	R3PJSGZRJ5FNGE	037370948X	317478718	A Christmas Legacy (Harlequin Superromance No. 948)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The prodigal son returns	When Jacob Steele returned home after fifteen years, it wasn't to reconnect with the town that loved him. Instead, his motivation was purely financial. He needed capital and he wasn't above claiming the inheritance bequeathed to him by the father whom he felt betrayed him. Unfortunately for the man who now calls himself Jay Lawrence, the inheritance comes with conditions. These conditions will keep Jay in Riverbend for a month working in the family bookstore. If he decides not to fulfill the terms, the bookstore and the farmhouse he used to cherish, go to the manager, Kate McMann. Jay isn't about to let a woman, whose ambiguous relationship with his father is questionable, get her hands on his inheritance. He sets out to confront her never knowing that she and her twin daughters would change his plans, not to mention his life, forever.<br />Kathryn Shay's installment of the Riverbend mini-series is clearly a conclusion to this diverse cast of characters. She ties up all the loose ends with a strong narrative and wonderful character development on the part of Jay Lawrence. Our hero is clearly a man tormented by his falling out with his father, whom he used to adore. Although he tries to hide his heart from Kate, he finds it impossible to keep from connecting with her and her dreams all the while knowing that he will destroy them. In addition, Shay implements fragments from Jacob's past during his stay at the old farmhouse with the McManns, which stir up wonderful memories of a town he had come to hate. Though Kate is a solid and admirable character, it is truly Jay who makes this book stand out as he finds himself drawn to reconnect with Riverbend family and friends, to doubt his own heartlessness as he connects to Kate and her girls, and to finally come to terms with the imperfections of Abraham Steele.	2000-11-22
US	51150291	R3AQGCUC58ZHOS	0373763298	339435837	Cowboy's Gift (Code Of The West) (Silhouette Desire, No 1329)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The story of a man who learned to appreciate what he had	Twelve years ago, Gus Holt decided that the appeal of the outside world beat tying himself down to the girl he loved. He headed down the road and he hardly ever looked back. Now, years later, the appeal of the road has slowly worn away and he finds himself uncertain about his future. Taking a few weeks to get it straightened out was all he planned to do when he arrived in Montana. But when he unexpectedly encountered his ex-fiancee, his uncertainty faded quickly.<br />Mary McLean's world is turned upside down by the sudden reappearance of Gus Holt. She is surprised to find that the young man who claimed he'd rather be dead than married is all too eager to pick up where they left off twelve years ago. Unfortunately for Gus, Mary's world no longer centers around the young love they shared. She is also carrying a child. But nothing will deter Gus from reclaiming the love they once shared.<br />Anne McAllister has written the story about a man who grows up quickly when he realizes that the source of his restlessness is actually his need to set down some roots. This is an irony that the author makes impossible to miss for both Mary McLean and the reader. At the story's beginning, Gus still is that careless young man in that he never truly understands the consequences of his heartless actions. But through Mary's strength of character, Gus is compelled to face his inadequacies again and again as he comes to understand the depth of the heartache he inflicted upon her. This is a wonderful and heartwarming story for the holidays which readers will enjoy. Mary is a determined and strong heroine both as a young woman and as a mature adult and her sheer will both humbles Gus and allows him to appreciate all he had taken for granted.	2000-11-20
US	51150291	R1NDTWTV23HH68	1551666189	224857817	Manhunting (Mira)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The plan seemed simple enough	Find a successful (rich) and distinguished bachelor and nab him for a husband. For thirty-five year old Kate Svenson, the clock was ticking and she was tired of being alone. After three unsuccessful engagements, she was willing to risk anything in order to find that perfect partner. She required a man with the same ambitious nature and financial drive she had. She wanted a man she could develop an empire with. And she was going to find him at The Cabins in Toby's Corner, Kentucky. What she found was a slew of men who should have appealed to her but didn't. And what was worse, they were dropping like flies around her one by one through her own volition or by some invisible hand of fate.<br />The one man who is avoiding her like the plague is Jake Templeton, the handyman who keeps everything nice and neat around The Cabins. These are adjectives that he might use to describe his life until Kate Svenson arrives at The Cabins and fascinates him with her inability to hold on to a man for any length of time and also entrances him with her unexpected vulnerability. <br />Jennifer Crusie has written a brilliant and sometimes poignant romance that sometimes crosses the line into women's fiction. But the point is, it is an entertaining and witty story about two people who discover an uncanny friendship and an even more unexpected love. The author's use of smart dialogue between characters really helps to hold this story together. Though the actions that take place are uncommonly slapstick, Crusie manages to hold on to the seriousness of the relationship without allowing the characters to lose their integrity or sense of development.	2000-11-20
US	51150291	R1N92EBBJTUGSA	0373650507	836746539	Big Sky Lawman (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A vast improvement	When the local psychic, Winona Cobbs, comes to Deputy Sloan Ravencrest claiming she had a vision revealing the whereabouts of the mayor's daughter, Sloan has reason to believe that he is being misled. Instead, his instincts and his deduction direct him towards Winona's niece, Crystal, whose own talent is perhaps much more genuine. Crystal has had a vision of the mayor's daughter but she is reluctant to step in and offer her assistance because of a shattering previous experience which left her betrayed and humiliated by the people who supposedly loved her. She believes that this prior example is all the more reason why she should hold Sloan's personal concern, as well as the case, at bay.<br />Marilyn Pappano has written an installment which I believe restores a bit of the faith in this series. Her writing is smooth and engaging and her characterizations are strong. The plot concerning Christina Montgomery's disappearance develops and gives Sloan and Crystal's story an edgy feel to it. But the author doesn't let the Montgomery subplot deter her from credibly developing a relationship between Sloan and Crystal. Sloan is a law enforcer with a good heart and his love for Crystal prompts his desire to protect her even if it means making a couple of foolish promises. If there is a weakness in this story, it comes from Crystal's self-centered, and sometimes narrow-minded, way of considering her self-preservation first, last, and always. Because this manner of thinking is predominant throughout most of the story, the heroine comes across as being overly and inappropriately judgmental. But overall, this is a solid installment that doesn't falter and has many redeeming qualities to it.	2000-10-25
US	51150291	R39KBTCKVCRPLG	0373194765	278256806	Snowbound Sweetheart (from The Circle K ) (Silhouette Romance, 1476)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	When Gil met Lindsay	While Gil is ending his visit with his sister in Chicago, he discovers that Lindsay Crawford, the neighbor across the hall, is driving down to Oklahoma which is where his destination is as well. When Lindsay begrudgingly offers him a ride, he agrees even though his good sense and caution warn him against his attraction for her. For Lindsay, the trip to Oklahoma would be bad enough considering the terrible weather. Adding Gil to the equation simply makes it worse. Growing up with a number of overprotective men in her family, she recognizes Gil as one of them and is easily infuriated when he starts to question her judgment on the road. <br />This begins the promising spinoff to Judy Christenberry's Circle K trilogy. In all truth, the road trip is perhaps the least appealing part of the story but because of the conditions surrounding it, Gil and Lindsay are given the chance to get to know each other better. Things get interesting when Lindsay's father and brothers enter the picture and Christenberry clearly illustrates exactly how protective they are of her. The author is quite convincing when it comes to portraying how restrictive a life Lindsay is forced to lead whenever she comes home. Somewhat unexpectedly, Gil turns out to be the character who develops the most but perhaps this is because he has a lot to learn. Lindsay proves to be the most admirable character, however, because she insists on standing her ground and proving to her family exactly how capable she is. Christenberry has written a wonderful and stirring story about a woman who is determined to make her own choices and to be accepted on her own terms with or without the support of the men in her life.	2000-10-23
US	51150291	R1XPPTML90SYDQ	0373763263	239563196	Baby: MacAllister - Made (The Baby Bet) (Silhouette Desire, 1326)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	One night changed their friendship forever	For Richard MacAllister and Brenda Henderson, their friendship was the best thing in their lives. While they both search for their soulmate, the last thing they suspect is to find him or her in each other. So one night, when Richard goes next door to comfort his ailing best friend, they turn to each other in a fit of unexpected passion and are afterwards determined to keep their friendship the way it is. Unfortunately, due to the effect of antibiotics on her contraceptive, Brenda finds herself pregnant with her best friend's child. So determined is she that they are not meant for each other, Brenda refuses Richard's offer of marriage for the sake of their friendship.<br />This is the premise off which the rest of Pickart's latest installment of the Baby Bet series is based on. I must confess that I was actually looking forward to this installment because for the short appearance they made in the preceding installment, Richard and Brenda showed some signs of promise. Unfortunately, their story is a major disappointment. The style is a problem in this story because even more than the preceding installments, Pickart's use of dialogue seems rather meaningless at points. Her characters ramble without a point and it is supposed to be endearing. At first, perhaps considering the unexpectedness of the baby, it is. But because it continues, it becomes irritating and overly saccharine. In addition, through it all, I found Brenda's obstinacy to be a deterrant to any growth in their relationship. Pickart also sticks to form concerning the hero's occupation putting him out of the heroine's way for long stretches of time. This makes it hard to write a credible romance between the two. Of the two friends,however, Richard is the more admirable because the baby actually manages to instigate a development in him as a character while Brenda continues to stagnate up to the bitter end.	2000-10-23
US	51150291	R1KPRO7URVTQ4X	0373709420	824780004	The Last-Minute Marriage: Welcome to Riverbend (Harlequin Superromance No. 942)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Nice locale and interesting use of community	Tessa Masterson finds herself running out of gas and lost not far outside of Riverbend, Indiana. When Riverbend's law, with Mitch Sterling riding shotgun, encounters her, they direct her towards town where she can refuel and maybe get some rest before she continues on her way north to Albany. Mitch Sterling's name embodies who he is. He is a member of the town council and he runs the town's hardware store which has been in his family for generations. He, his grandfather, and his son, are an integral part of this community and when he finds himself drawn to the pregnant stranger in town, he feels certain that she is the one for him despite the miserable marriage he has behind him. <br />Marisa Carroll has fluidly implemented the location and sense of community that has been a wonderful part of this Riverbend mini-series. What she fails to do credibly is to develop a relationship between Mitch and Tessa. It is difficult enough that unlike the previous installments, Tessa has no real connection to the town, but Carroll also brings in another stranger unexpectedly as a trite plot device which halts any progress Mitch and Tessa would have made. I was a bit surprised by the lack of development where Mitch and Tessa were concerned. But I did enjoy the continuous use of Riverbend as a community. The author continues in the vein first established by Arnold and continued by the rest of the authors thus far. And Tessa's love for Riverbend helped to establish a bit of a bond between her and the community she has grown to love. The advent of a familiar stranger, however, mars the friendship she shares with the locals and the love she feels for Mitch in a manner that is never truly recovered.	2000-10-17
US	51150291	R2O1PXAGB4NR7K	0373806965	601203790	The Devil To Pay	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An anti-climatic  yet satisfying story	Writer Emelina Stratton is determined to help her brother who is being blackmailed. Her search for the blackmailer leads her to Oregon where her attempt at breaking and entering is called to a halt by Julian Colter who is rumored to be a part of the Mafia that is in hiding. Julian is willing to help Emelina catch her blackmailer for a price. Initially, he longs for the type of loyalty and trust she bears for her brother. Instead, he finds himself longing for her heart as well. <br />Stephanie James is the pseudonym for Jayne Ann Krentz during an earlier period of writing and there is much about this story to recommend. The humor surrounding the local lore about Julian's true occupation becomes a source of contention between Emmy and the locals when she gets fed up with their warnings and innuendoes. Julian pragmatically defies Emmy's vivid imagination when it comes to handling the blackmailer. There is a thread of suspense but it doesn't pan out and the plot involving the blackmailer proves to be anti-climatic. But as the story mainly focuses on Emmy and Julian's relationship, it is not much of a disappointment or even a mystery. This is a story well worth reading and there are clear hints of Krentz's present style and characterizations in this story. What is interesting in reading this book is seeing how far along Krentz has come as a writer.	2000-10-13
US	51150291	R38WJHSV586EFK	0373243529	677049050	Marrying a Delacourt (And Baby Makes Three: The Delacourts of Texas / Silhouette Special Edition, No. 1352)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The one who got away	For Michael Delacourt, helping to run his father's oil company is his reason for being. But when he is lured away from his office by his siblings to the small community of Los Pinos, he finds himself drawn to two runaway boys who are on his sister's property where he is vacationing. Though he could call the local police or his extended family, Michael decides to call Grace Foster, a family law advocate and the woman who broke things off with him six years ago. Grace is a tough lawyer but she has a soft heart. When she agrees to help Michael, she is determined to keep it completely professional. But Michael's presence and the two boys trigger in her the yearning for a family which she has kept at bay for the past six years. <br />Sherryl Woods has written a strong story about two people who have become workaholics by default. When Michael and Grace separated, they found an immense amount of comfort and drive in their respective occupations. But just when Michael's family is warning him about following in the steps of his workaholic father, Grace steps into his life again reminding him of better times. Michael is a strongly drawn character who does change when he agrees to help shield the boys. Grace's love for the boys stirs his protective instincts when it comes to knowing her heart. And he comes to want to embrace the possibility of the four of them creating a family. But if Michael is the tempered embodiment of reason, Grace is clearly all heart. The author paints Grace as a woman who is smart, alone, and disillusioned when it comes to love. What Grace finds with the two boys, and eventually Michael, is the family she has been searching for.	2000-10-13
US	51150291	R2UPLYFBNI8YUD	0373806965	601203790	The Devil To Pay	Books	4	14	15	N	N	An anti-climatic  yet satisfying story	Writer Emelina Stratton is determined to help her brother who is being blackmailed. Her search for the blackmailer leads her to Oregon where her attempt at breaking and entering is called to a halt by Julian Colter who is rumored to be a part of the Mafia that is in hiding. Julian is willing to help Emelina catch her blackmailer for a price. Initially, he longs for the type of loyalty and trust she bears for her brother. Instead, he finds himself longing for her heart as well. <br />Stephanie James is the pseudonym for Jayne Ann Krentz during an earlier period of writing and there is much about this story to recommend. The humor surrounding the local lore about Julian's true occupation becomes a source of contention between Emmy and the locals when she gets fed up with their warnings and innuendoes. Julian pragmatically defies Emmy's vivid imagination when it comes to handling the blackmailer. There is a thread of suspense but it doesn't pan out and the plot involving the blackmailer proves to be anti-climatic. But as the story mainly focuses on Emmy and Julian's relationship, it is not much of a disappointment or even a mystery. This is a story well worth reading and there are clear hints of Krentz's present style and characterizations in this story. What is interesting in reading this book is seeing how far along Krentz has come as a writer.	2000-10-13
US	51150291	R1J00NUE9YFORK	0373484194	632336179	Sara'S Angel (Silhouette Promo)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	His hermitage was invaded by a damsel in distress	Mackenzie Hawk's life of seclusion was obliterated when Sara Beaudry roared into his life on a motorcycle. With her brother in danger, Hawk is her last hope and he finds himself helplessly drawn to his ex-partner's sister. Sara needs Hawk's help. Her brother is all that is left of her family and she knows that if her brother has sent her to Hawk, the danger must indeed be great. But as she comes to know Hawk and to love this isolated man, she realizes that his existence is as vital to her as her brother's. <br />Sharon Sala has written a heart-wrenching story about a cynical and bitter ex-agent who is wary of women but drawn to the fiery protectiveness Sara bears for her brother. The strength of her faith in him disarms Hawk in a fundamental way and has him yearning for her love. It is Sara, however, who is the most striking character. Sala paints her as a truly beautiful person. On the outside, her beauty is her source of income but it clearly comes second to the men she loves. Her internal beauty comes from her faith in both of these men. She hasn't their physical strength but she also isn't afraid to do what she can to help them against their common enemy. In addition to this, Sara is down-to-earth and decisive. Though she experiences fear for both her brother and Hawk, she ably displays a courage that is born of her love for them. This is a gem of a story and should not be missed.	2000-10-12
US	51150291	R2GCZUPBZQOCDC	0373650647	448682985	Married To The Boss (Maitland Maternity, Book 3)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	He needed her help to redeem himself	R.J. Maitland, who has recently been accused of being the father of the baby abandoned on the steps of the Maitland Maternity Clinic, decides that he must take action to redeem himself in the eyes of the press and the community. If he doesn't, the clinic's reputation will continue to suffer to say nothing of his own personal reputation. With that in mind, he propositions his faithful secretary, Dana Dillinger, with a marriage of convenience. Far from being just his secretary, Dana is also R.J.'s friend. Her faith in him, even by his own standards, is extraordinary. She agrees to help him under one condition, that it be a true marriage for its duration. Despite his anxiety over the issue of his attraction for her, which is clearly reciprocated, R.J. is unable to deny her request. <br />Lori Foster breathes life into this series once again as two friends struggle to deal with the ramifications of sharing a personal as well as a professional relationship. Dana is unflagging in her support of R.J. whom she has loved for years. Judging from Foster's illustration of their working relationship, Dana is not merely his secretary but his other half. She anticipates his needs and &quot;coddles&quot; him and he allows it because of their friendship and her faith in him. R.J. cares for Dana but he is sure that he would never make a good husband or father. The issue of the abandoned baby is, for once, implemented in a meaninful way by Foster. R.J. and his sister were also abandoned by their father and when he is accused of abandoning the baby on the doorstep, he takes grave offense at the attack. Foster also does a good job of developing the friendship these two strongly drawn characters share into love in a credible manner.	2000-10-11
US	51150291	R1QCLOBLA87RLZ	0373650639	960707714	Cassidy's Kids (Maitland Maternity, Book 2)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	She found comfort in her work and her family	Years ago, Ellie Maitland was shattered by what she perceived was a rejection by her best friend Sloan Cassidy. Since then, her sole comfort has been her family and her ambition which has driven her. As an administrator for her mother's maternity clinic, Ellie strives hard to prove her worth to the clinic's clients as well as to her family. Though she knows she will never be a beauty like her twin sister, Ellie knows business and she struggles to achieve a footing in a world where she is perceived as being too young and inexperienced to fill her mother's shoes. To add to the trouble at the clinic, Sloan Cassidy comes back into her life with his twin daughters in tow. The two girls are too much for him to handle and he wants Ellie to help him while they renew their friendship.<br />Tara Taylor Quinn has written a mediocre installment of the Maitland Maternity series. Because much of the conflict between Sloan and Ellie resides in the past with their friendship, Quinn seems to have a hard time illustrating a development between the two romantically. Their single bond is Cassidy's daughters who truly are too much for a single father to handle. Ellie is a contradictory character whose strength of purpose is always underminded by the vulnerability she has felt since she was a teenager. Because of this, it was hard for me to take her seriously as it was for the business people she dealt with. Though she finds confidence in her work, her lack of faith in her mother's approval of her for the position doesn't ring true. The author's prose is good and the story is not bad at points. I just got the sense that Quinn had tried to tackle too many issues of the characters and their relationship at the same time which did not allow for a fluid storyline already marred by the overarching plot concerning the abandoned baby.	2000-10-11
US	51150291	R4SMB61766YKB	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A tragic legend provides an intriguing backdrop	Jude Frances Murray has traveled across an ocean to retreat to and make use of Faerie Hill Cottage, a bequest left to her grandmother from a deceased relative. Disillusioned and disappointed by the course her life has taken, she embarks on a journey of self-discovery in the village of Ardmore in Ireland's County Waterford. From the moment she sets foot in his family's pub, proprietor Aidan Gallagher is taken with Jude's quiet beauty, lack of vanity, and shy manner. Determined to open up the spirit he suspects she is repressing, Aidan romances the insecure psychologist while contributing to her pet project with his knowledge of local folklore. Despite their knowledge of an old and tragic legend and its curse, Aidan and Jude never suspect that there is more at stake in the fate of their relationship than just their own happiness. <br />Nora Roberts has written an adequate story that is interwoven with a splendid legend. The premise of Jude's self-discovery is a promising one but never seems to pan out successfully. Insecure and somewhat convinced of her mediocrity, Jude allows herself to bask in the glow of the praise of her newfound friends in Ardmore. This contradicted her search for self-validation because she was happy to let others validate her. Because of this, I was never convinced of her development as a character. Aidan, however, is a solid and steady hero who helps to move the story along with his wealth of knowledge when it comes to the local folklore. As Roberts ably shows, he has a knack for telling a tale. Readers will find themselves falling into the rhythm of his tales. The stories themselves are the true strength of this book and are beautifully written. The legend of Carrick and Lady Gwen is tightly drawn and fluidly written and is frequently woven into Aidan and Jude's story both in context as well as character.	2000-10-03
US	51150291	R73GBH6ZNQDWM	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Accepting each other as they are	Shawn Gallagher is happy with his life. He mans the kitchen in his family's pub, he indulges his heart in his music, and he revels in his relationships with friends and family alike. But when his lifelong friend, Brenna O'Toole, makes her interest in him all too clear, Shawn finds himself shaken out of his dreamy complacency only to find himself reciprocating her interest. Brenna O'Toole doesn't really have a need for a man in her life and her occupation, as a handy-woman, doesn't make it any easier for her to establish a relationship with one. Though she values her friendship with Shawn, Brenna finds herself contemplating a course of action when it comes to dealing with her long-abiding attraction for him. When the two begin to realize the depth of their love for each other, they find that their biggest conflict lies in accepting each other without exception. <br />Nora Roberts has written a wonderful tale of friends whose relationship expands to encompass love. Because both Brenna and Shawn have been friends for such a long time, there is already a sense of affection, admiration, and familiarity with each other that provides a good springboard for their story. Brenna, with her hard-edged practicality and Shawn, with his head in the clouds, would seem to be a thoroughly mismatched pair. But Roberts skillfully plumbs the depths of their longstanding friendship in order to develop their relationship. Though Brenna and Shawn's love for each other is at the heart of this novel, Roberts also touches upon Brenna's bond with her father and her relationship with the women in her family. There is also the entertaining narrative involving a bond that develops between the two men Brenna loves: Shawn and her father. This is a wonderful story which does continue the incorporation of Prince Carrick and Lady Gwen's story but also gives more insight into both of these tragic figures and the pride and haste which enforced upon them a long period of repentance.	2000-10-03
US	51150291	R2ATBJHEDBPEXS	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A tragic legend provides an intriguing backdrop	Jude Frances Murray has traveled across an ocean to retreat to and make use of Faerie Hill Cottage, a bequest left to her grandmother from a deceased relative. Disillusioned and disappointed by the course her life has taken, she embarks on a journey of self-discovery in the village of Ardmore in Ireland's County Waterford. From the moment she sets foot in his family's pub, proprietor Aidan Gallagher is taken with Jude's quiet beauty, lack of vanity, and shy manner. Determined to open up the spirit he suspects she is repressing, Aidan romances the insecure psychologist while contributing to her pet project with his knowledge of local folklore. Despite their knowledge of an old and tragic legend and its curse, Aidan and Jude never suspect that there is more at stake in the fate of their relationship than just their own happiness. <br />Nora Roberts has written an adequate story that is interwoven with a splendid legend. The premise of Jude's self-discovery is a promising one but never seems to pan out successfully. Insecure and somewhat convinced of her mediocrity, Jude allows herself to bask in the glow of the praise of her newfound friends in Ardmore. This contradicted her search for self-validation because she was happy to let others validate her. Because of this, I was never convinced of her development as a character. Aidan, however, is a solid and steady hero who helps to move the story along with his wealth of knowledge when it comes to the local folklore. As Roberts ably shows, he has a knack for telling a tale. Readers will find themselves falling into the rhythm of his tales. The stories themselves are the true strength of this book and are beautifully written. The legend of Carrick and Lady Gwen is tightly drawn and fluidly written and is frequently woven into Aidan and Jude's story both in context as well as character.	2000-10-03
US	51150291	R2VCAIKW50UHH9	0380802449	237229061	Anything Goes (Grace and Favor Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The crash of 1929 deprived them of everything	Lily Brewster and her brother, Robert, had lived among the idle rich until the crash of 1929. Since the onset of the Depression, both Robert and Lily have barely been eking out a living. When they receive an unexpected summons in the paper, the two journey to the property of their deceased great-uncle Horatio Brewster only to discover they have inherited his entire estate complete with stipulations. Having agreed to the conditions of the will, Robert and Lily relocate to the mansion they now call Grace and Favor cottage only to gradually find themselves embroiled in gossip surrounding Uncle Horatio's death. When it is suspected that he was murdered and another dead body is found in their home, Lily and Robert find themselves connecting the two deaths and on the hunt for the murderer. <br />Better known for her contemporary surburbia mysteries, Jill  Churchill has struck out admirably upon a new series set in the thirties. With Robert and Lily Brewster, she has created a somewhat off-center yet engaging duo. What makes these protagonists unusual to both readers and characters in the book itself, is that Lily is clearly the brain of this outfit while Robert is deceptively indifferent. Though he does manage to surprise his sister and the other characters with his occasional insight, it is Lily who gathers the information and does most of the sleuthing. Her help, and sources, lie in the characters that live in the area and will likely recur. They include Uncle Horatio's attorney and his wife as well as Jack Summer, a struggling and earnest reporter. Anything Goes is a tightly drawn mystery that interweaves the misery of the Depression with the desperation of people struggling with its aftermath. In the ten years Robert and Lily must remain at the cottage, it can be anticipated that this team of brother and sister will come across more strange occurrences that must be solved. I look forward to joining them again.	2000-10-03
US	51150291	R88TOVPVVP4Q5	0380806290	934380949	The Wedding Bargain	Books	4	2	2	N	N	She wants a hero and will settle for nothing less	After seven seasons, Pandora Effington realizes that she must soon settle down. She's in no particular hurry, however, when the Earl of Trent suggests a bargain. He proposes that she set before him a test of her own choosing. If he wins, she must marry him. If he loses, she can name his bride. Trent is almost certain that the bride he has chosen will, in fact, be his. Pandora throws him a curve when she sets before him a test of Herculean proportions. From there, with the help of well-intentioned friends and family, it is anyone's game but the stakes are raised dramatically when the prize turns out to be love.<br />Victoria Alexander has taken a tried plot and has turned it, somewhat creatively, on its head. The strength of this story lies in Trent's cleverness and, increasingly, what he is willing to do or forsake for Pandora. His creativity and the support of the Effingtons are the backbone of this book. The secondary story between Trent and Pandora's friends is charming and entertaining. The weakness in this story stems primarily from Pandora. According to the reputation Pandora has made for herself, there is very little she would not risk. Though she frets about Trent never speaking the words she needs to hear, neither does she confront him with her own feelings. While she believes that being in love means taking action, she does not practice what she preaches. The lack of communication between the two leading characters proved to be problematic as well. This is a well-written book with a creative twist and engaging characters. It simply would have been stronger if the heroine had been more convincing and communication between the hero and heroine had not been so delayed.	2000-10-03
US	51150291	R29Y8AJZMB2XAY	0373763182	166878371	Mail-Order Cinderella (Silhouette Desire No. 1318)(Fortune's Children)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	To secure his inheritance, he needs a wife	Tyler Fortune has been delivered an ultimatum. He must marry and settle down before he is thirty or lose his inheritance. Knowing his father is not in the habit of making idle threats, Tyler concedes that he must marry and that he hasn't much time. He is determined, however, that if he is to marry, he will choose his bride. Through a video matchmaking service, he comes across Julie Ann Parker, a plain-Jane shy librarian whom he feels would be easily controlled and who wouldn't make a lot of demands on him. But when he meets Julie, he senses that there is much more spirit to her than she lets on. Still, he is convinced that she would suit him and he could give her what she wants. Julie knows that as a plain librarian, she is no catch. She can't conceive of a reason why someone as handsome and wealthy as Tyler Fortune would want to marry her when he could have his pick of ladies to choose as a wife. He cannot be steered from his conviction that she is right for him.<br />This is a steady continuation of the ongoing Fortune's Children series, which began again last month. Though there is nothing really spectacular about this modernized incorporation of a classic fairy tale, Jensen's writing and characterizations are strong enough to carry this story to a satisfactory ending. The author makes it a point to spend much of the novel illustrating how Tyler and Julie get to know each other by sharing their dreams and sharing a life. Because of this development, it becomes impossible for Tyler to pull away from her emotionally. Julie falls fast in love with Tyler because he is honorable and because he is genuinely concerned that she not be hurt. With Tyler, Julie opens up and reveals more of the spirit and vivacity that she expresses when it comes to what she loves.	2000-09-27
US	51150291	R26D13DI4N0RQQ	0373650493	259365498	Marriage Bargain (Montana Mavericks)	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Twenty years is a long time to foster a grudge	Two decades ago, Victoria Rutherford stood by while her father reamed out Adam Benson, the son of his ranch hand, for making out with his daughter in the Rutherford's barn. While accusing Benson of all but being a rapist, Victoria was unable to destroy her father's belief that she was perfect. Because of that, the Bensons were evicted from the Rutherford ranch and from there his father resumed drinking and Adam and his mother struggled to make ends meet. Now, the tables have turned and to save her father's ranch, Victoria must marry Adam and work as his ranch hand and maid in order to better understand the position he was in twenty years ago at the mercy of her and her father. Victoria finds herself regressing into the fascination she had for him when she was fifteen years old and all too soon realizes that the love she feels for him is a \\"grown-up\\" one.<br />Though Victoria Pade's writing is adequate, I was rather disappointed with the execution of this story for two reasons. My first problem was with the time span. The brevity of it made the resolution rather unbelievable. My second problem was with the superficiality of both the hero and the heroine. Adam has had twenty years to build Victoria into a \\"witch\\" and to nurture his resentment but Victoria's beauty has him rethinking his intentions. Victoria is enchanted by how handsome he looks that she can't help but be attracted to him despite the fact that he hates her. The utter lack of conviction on the parts of both characters made it hard to like either one. For a story that is based on a twenty-year old resentment, I expected there to be a great deal more development instead of a large amount of chemistry. Pade's installment of this series takes it a step down and that's unfortunate.	2000-09-27
US	51150291	R2RY40AP6QHOZE	0380796384	476484446	Sealed with a Kiss	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Eight years ago, he took everything for granted	When the message finally reaches him that his father is near death, Gidry Chavis heads home to Chavistown filled with hope and dread. Eight years ago  he had left town with his father's judgment ringing in his ears and he had  abandoned the girl he had promised to marry. Now, he doesn't know what to  expect when he reenters the town. Gidry loves his father, never more so  than now when the old man hangs on by a thread. He vows to take up where  his father left off and all of the people in Chavistown turn to him for  reassurance and for progress, well almost all. Prudence Belmont belongs to  the faith that a leopard cannot change its spots. This, she believes, also  applies to Gidry Chavis, the childhood sweetheart who abandoned her, broke  her heart, and left her to face the humiliation of gossip and speculation.  Though it seems he has come home to Chavistown and wants to resume their  childhood friendship, Prudence is mortified by the fact that he never loved  her. As adults, she believes they can never share the purity of friendship  that they had as children. When Gidry claims to love her, Prudence is  unable to believe it or to accept it because it could never compare to the  \\"perfect love\\" she thought they had shared years ago. <br />Pamela Morsi has  written a dynamic Americana romance. She succeeds in capturing the life and  animation of a small town and enriches it with the history of the Chavises  who were behind the making of it. Through Gidry, Morsi illustrates the  benefits and the disadvantages of inheriting such a legacy. Gidry's  internal battle when it comes to his father is heart wrenching. On the one  hand, he has always admired and loved his father deeply and he has always  been loved and cared for in turn. On the other hand, Peer Chavis is a great  man and full of high expectations for his only son. Clearly it was  difficult for Gidry to live up to those expectations much less his father's  own sterling reputation. Whereas Gidry learned to be aman, Prudence  learned to be a proper woman. After consistently wearing her heart on her  sleeve for all to see, Pru tucks in her emotions and keeps them to herself.  Though she once claimed that pride could never compare to love, she now  holds on to her pride and dignity with all her might. With Gidry's return  to town, Pru finds herself confronting him on more than an emotional level  as he seeks to keep his town safe from criminals with the advent of  electrical street lighting and she seeks to preserve their old and  unchanging ways. What enhances and emphasizes the love story between Gidry  and Prudence is the one between her aunt and his father, which is powerful  in its poignancy and nearly threatens the reader's focus on the reunion of  the two main characters.	2000-09-19
US	51150291	R2TXMLU5U705QV	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An unusual bequest was left to her	Months ago, Lydia Smith got lost in the catacombs due to an illusion trap. Forty-eight hours of her life were gone as a result and it was a miracle  she managed to find her way out. Once she did, however, her career as a  para-archaeologist working for the university was over due to the delicate  state of her mind. But Lydia knows she's as capable as ever and though, she  might be blackballed by the university, she attempts to strike out on her  own as a consultant for the private sector. It doesn't seem to be going  well when she and her first client stumble across a dead body in one of the  sarcophagus in the museum where she works part-time. Emmett London traced  his missing cabinet of curiosities to Chester Brady, an associate of  Lydia's. When the two find Brady murdered, Lydia and Emmett find themselves  racing against the clock in order to discover who, or what, perpetuated his  death. <br />It is testament to Castle's talent as a writer that she managed  to create a paranormal world complete with background and history as well  as spin out a somewhat interesting plot. There is a great deal of  historical richness and creativity to this book that can be gleaned through  the details Castle provides. I enjoyed this part of the book immensely. In  addition, Emmett London was a cool and controlled hero whom I enjoyed and  would have liked to read more of in this book. But clearly, this is Lydia's  story. A great deal of the story revolves around her and her history with  the university, her history with Chester, and her bitter attitude towards  ghost-hunters of which Emmett can include himself. It was hard to warm up  to Lydia and even more difficult to buy the romance between the two. I felt  that Lydia's petulance was a bit aggravating especially when she interacted  with Emmett. Lydia is working for him and yet, she is angered by the fact  that he keeps things from her, which, in truth have no bearing on her  search for his cabinet. For instance, his being theformer leader of the  guild of ghost-hunters in his own city is a cause for anger with her when  in fact his past has nothing to do with what she was hired to do for him.  And though she works for him, she breaches the gap between employee and  partner continuously. In addition, the ending of the story leaves the  reader wondering whether this is, indeed, the start of a partnership. Lydia  and Emmett's relationship is in no way cemented or resolved by the end of  the story so it was difficult to think of it as a romance. It seemed more  suspenseful. I enjoyed the narrative and I enjoyed the plot and the  creativity Castle employed in order to develop it. As a whole my impression  of this story was good and if this is a series in the making, I'm sure that  it can only improve if these two characters have room to develop.	2000-09-19
US	51150291	R3E5GWD182RANW	0373168411	314575659	The Bride Said, Finally! The Lockharts of Texas (Harlequin American Romance, No. 841)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	He�s got promises to keep	Seven years ago, Jake Remington abandoned Jenna Lockhart. Though he said he would return, he never looked back. Now, after being married and  divorced, with daughter in tow, he returns to Laramie to fulfill the  promise he made to the woman he loves. But Jenna Lockhart will have none of  it. What consumes her, are her fashion designs, and her plan to expand them  in her way and her time. Jake's offer to help monetarily if she will  convince his daughter Alexandra to don a dress is something she reluctantly  agrees to because she needs the backing so badly. But she gradually finds  herself being drawn into Jake's family and being a mother to his tomboy  daughter. And all too soon she is coming to the realization that she never  stopped loving Jake and that it would be very easy to buy into his  optimistic idealism when it comes to the dreams they had when they were  younger. <br />This second installment of The Lockharts of Texas is not as  strong as the first. It isn't a bad read but there's nothing that makes it  stand out. Both Jake and Jenna are somewhat lukewarm as characters and it's  hard to root for them when, for the first part of the book, Jake appears so  unappealing given his abandonment of her. But as soon as the history behind  them is cleared, it becomes obvious, throughout the second half of the  book, that Jenna's own hesitation is a deterrent to their happiness. No  matter how hard Jake tries to make amends by being there for her, Jenna's  irrational fears make it impossible for her to believe he can make her  dreams come true. To be truthful, the reoccurring appearance of his ex-wife  and her machinations do give reason to pause for thought but Jake's honesty  from the time he comes back into Jenna's life cannot be disputed. Though he  continues to make a few mistakes, they are minor compared to Jenna's  complete lack of faith in him which, given Jake's reasons for abandoning  her in the first place, seem incredibly unfounded. It is clear in thisstory that Jake is doing all of the giving and he is trying hard to make up  for lost time. Jenna is merely doing all of the taking. I wasn't quite sure  what she brought to their relationship besides an understanding of Jake's  daughter. A quickly wrapped up ending provides a satisfactory ending for  the couple and a fluid narrative keeps this story going. Stronger and  steadier characterizations from Thacker would have yielded a more favorable  impression.	2000-09-19
US	51150291	R2G6A37GIPX301	0425176304	618962370	Judgment in Death	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Proving this series only gets better and better	In this installment, Lieutenant Eve Dallas finds herself in Purgatory, a  remodeled strip-joint inconveniently owned by Roarke, with a brutally  murdered cop on her hands. With this information, Eve finds herself sinking  into circle after circle of connections that all point to Max Ricker, an  ex-associate of her husband who has held a long and abiding resentment for  him and for cops. Now, as cops find themselves the victims of an unknown  and merciless hand, Eve finds herself going head to head with the Internal  Affairs Bureau and Max Ricker in order to take down a cop killer and bring  him to justice. <br />This is a wonderful continuation of the In Death series  and J.D. Robb has done a magnificent job of crafting a complex and riveting  plot. This story is full of action and determination on the part of Eve and  her team who struggle to pinpoint the cop killer. As always, Robb is in top  form when we witness the dedicated Eve going the extra mile in order to  find justice for the dead. Her sidekick, Peabody, is back also with her  snappy repartee though she can never oust Roarke as the champion of witty  rejoinders or as a partner. Robb solidifies Roarke and Eve's marriage in a  number of ways as we watch Eve fumble in her attempt to justify protecting  her husband and, on top of that, the unexpected attentions of Lieutenant  Don Webster from the IAB who has never truly gotten over Eve. Webster's  discontent with his position in this case compels him to get back in the  game of actual police work. Feeney and McNab round out Eve's team as usual  by representing the EDD. Taking down a cop is a serious offense and Robb  illustrates this in a scene where Eve needlessly asks all the cops in the  Homicide bullpen if they would help her with the grunt work to catch this  particular killer. They are all too ready to offer their assistance. Eve  does battle with the murdered cops' own house who wants to find the killer  for themselves but gets a great deal of supportfrom the brass who throw  their weight around when needed. I wish I could go much deeper into why I  enjoyed this story so much but to do so would ruin it for you. All I can  say is, this is a fantastic book that is strongly written and I hope you  get the chance to enjoy it too.	2000-09-13
US	51150291	R2A9R3VBD3FXP0	0380806312	899001105	The Husband List	Books	4	20	24	N	N	What would you do for 600,000 pounds, eight ships, and land?	In order to claim an inheritance left to her by an uncle in America, Lady  Gillian Marley must be married before she is thirty years old. She has two  months to fulfill this request. She asks her two childhood friends, Robert,  the Earl of Weston and Christopher, Viscount Cummings, to each compose a  list of potential husbands believing that they will take her request  seriously. She should have known better. None of the men Robin and Kit jot  down are worthy men except perhaps one. Richard Shelton, the Earl of  Shelbrooke has no idea why Lady Gillian has invited him to one of her  famous salons but the last thing he expects to see is one of his own  paintings being critiqued by a group of her guests. Unbeknownst to his  peers, Shelbrooke paints for an income that will hopefully restore his  ancestral home. Unfortunately, his alias, Etienne-Louis Toussaint, a  persona created by Gillian's own brother, is just coming to attention. When  Gillian puts the question of a marriage of convenience to him in order to  claim a fortune they would share, he knows that this is more than he could  ever have hoped for. His pride, however, refuses to allow him to be married  for convenience. If he is to commit himself to Gillian forever, he wants a  real marriage. In order to assure this, Shelbrooke has planned a  two-pronged attack to court her as the Earl of Shelbrooke but also as the  rake he used to be under the name of his convenient alter ego, Toussaint.  <br />Victoria Alexander has written a witty, humorous, and touching story  about two people who discover that love is the real reason they can't  commit to a marriage merely for convenience. Unlike many women of her time,  Gillian married her childhood sweetheart and had a good marriage for the  short time they had together. Shelbrooke, on the other hand, began  following in his father's footsteps as a rake until his father's death,  which prompted a change in character in order to care and provide for his  sisters. Unfortunately, it is not seemly for a peer of the realm to earn a  living so, Shelbrooke turns to his childhood friend, Thomas, for assistance  and support when it comes to his painting. He never expects to use the  persona Thomas creates for his own means. When he does, it is both comical  and revealing. Despite the atrocious French accent he must adopt,  Shelbrooke feels he can voice his own uncertainties through Toussaint and  can, in turn, learn more about Gillian's. For Gillian, trying to figure out  her feelings for Shelbrooke and dealing with his mysterious ways, is  difficult enough without Robin and Kit subjecting themselves to repeatedly  asking for her hand with a great deal of reluctance but even more  affection. This is the first Alexander novel I have read and I appreciated  her humor, the development of the characters, and the wit she used in  unmasking Toussaint.	2000-09-08
US	51150291	R1K9CXR5MC2Z1E	0373709374	49641834	Homecoming (Welcome to Riverbend / Harlequin Superromance, No. 937)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A spiritually uplifting story	After losing his partner and best friend in a terrorist bombing, foreign  correspondent, Tom Baines arrives in Riverbend, Indiana unsure of what he  plans to do with the rest of his life. All he knows is that his loss  renders him unable to detach himself from the violence that was once so  easily reported about. What he hopes to do is reconcile with his estranged  children and to contemplate writing once again. Tom finds himself wavering  on the brink of rejoining Riverbend society or committing to the hermitage  he has made of the farmhouse his uncle Abraham left him in his will. In  stark contrast, Reverend Lynn Kendall knows exactly what she is doing with  her life. She long ago accepted the call from God to do his work and to  love his children. She is looked upon as a higher being for it but Lynn  knows that she is all too human. As a minister, she is looked to for  guidance, counseling, assistance, and reassurance. She is thought of as  having all the answers. But as a woman, who can she turn to? Every man she  has dated has been intimidated by her calling and has been unable to accept  the long hours, the impromptu calls for help and assurance. When she meets  Tom, Lynn senses that he has a need for her that encompasses both the  minister and the woman inside of her. In the face of her serenity and  capable manner, Tom feels superfluous. But he slowly comes to realize that  as much as Riverbend needs her, Lynn has a need for him as well.  <br />This is a spiritually uplifting story that really emphasizes Riverbend  as a community working together. Laura Abbot has created an extraordinary  character in Lynn Kendall who has a good understanding of her own self. She  understands that it would take a great man to accept her both as a minister  as well as a woman. She feels she has found that man in Tom and she gives  them room for love to develop between the two of them. Tom is a cynical  character whose bitter outlook is at odds with his hopes. Lynn helps him to  see that his pessimism is what holds him back from achieving the level of  trust and affection with his children that he hopes to attain. Abbot also  implements the use of Meacham House, which is a sanctuary for teenagers. It  succeeds in bringing not only Lynn and Tom together, but the entire  community of Riverbend. I really enjoyed experiencing Homecoming. It is a  wonderful continuation of a five-part mini-series.	2000-09-08
US	51150291	RB8YUB53Z3EXL	0061013668	917319950	Here Comes the Bride	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Profit Margin versus the Human Condition	After three years of \\"walking out\\" with her beau, Amos Dewey, Augusta Mudd  is more than ready for marriage. But it seems Amos, with his successful  business, his house being well cared for, and Augusta for friendly  companionship, has no need of a wife. As a successful businesswoman  herself, Gussie realizes that Amos needs to be shaken out of his  complacency by some good old-fashioned competition. With that in mind, she  offers a business proposition to the manager of her ice factory, Rome  Akers. The plan is to pretend to be sweethearts until Independence Day  while, in the interim, provoking Amos into proposing to her. In exchange,  Rome gets the equal partnership that he has always longed for. Initially,  Rome isn't too keen on the plan. He's fond of his employer and cares about  her but he is also ambitious. If he hadn't thought Amos truly was the right  man for Gussie, he would never have agreed to such a clinically outlandish  plan. But as they plot together, laugh together, converse together, and  deepen their relationship beyond business, Rome and Gussie find themselves  falling in love with each other. Eventually, Rome finds himself desperate  to be the groom Gussie wants to complete her ideal wedding. <br />Pamela Morsi  has captured small town life in this Americana story. The town of  Cottonwood is rife with gossip both malevolent and benign and each of the  characters that make up the town is developed in such a way as to bring the  town to life without superimposing themselves over Gussie and Rome. Gussie  is a woman who is different from most heroines I've read about. Instead of  being a romantic dreamer, she is businesslike and practical. Though she  dreams of the ideal wedding and the ensuing marriage, she has not had the  right kind of experience with men to make those dreams romantic ones.  Instead, her wedding is painted in her mind as picturesque and traditional  just as her dreams of marriage are planned for the benefit of both  individuals.She has not picked Mr. Dewey for the passion he instills in  her but rather for their compatibility of temperament and status. She  believes in a marriage that will benefit both parties in a practical  fashion. It isn't until her friendship with Rome deepens and he introduces  her to passion that she realizes that she cannot be content with such a  marriage. Rome starts out content with his bachelor status and is ambitious  when it comes to his financial and social status in Cottonwood. He has a  good and discreet relationship with the town widow but when he falls in  love with Gussie, he realizes that everything, even a partnership in her  ice factory, pales in comparison to having her in his life. He is certainly  a Romeo like no other I've read before and is endearing with his  gentleness, consideration, and love for Gussie.	2000-09-06
US	51150291	R3N67A5WSH8KP9	0373484186	860243486	Gentle Persuasion	Books	4	66	66	N	N	He never thought a cop�s life was one to share�	Detective Cole Brownfield walks a fine line between heaven and hell due to  his occupation. As a member of the Narcotics Division at the Laguna Beach  Police Department, he spends days at a time in the most run down parts of  the city and comes home to a warm and supportive family which consists of  his father and brothers. He has resigned himself to the belief that no  woman could love him enough to overlook the danger that frequently  permeates his life. He is convinced that the life expectancy of a cop makes  it impossible to have a sustaining relationship of any sort with a woman.  But when his sister's friend, Debbie Randall, arrives from Oklahoma to take  care of his recuperating father, Cole finds himself confronting the  simmering attraction between the two of them. An attraction that is slowly  developing into an earnest and abiding love on her part. Cole, on the other  hand, finds it hard to say the words Debbie longs to hear and harder still  to commit to her. <br />Sharon Sala has written a powerful story about a cop  with a soft heart and a woman whose strength of character has him falling  helplessly in love with her. Cole is every bit the cop in the sense that he  is hard-edged, cynical, and somewhat taciturn. But Debbie brings out a side  in him he usually reserves only for family. Her vivacity and warmth  irrevocably invade his soul. Debbie has a way of opening up his family and  giving her heart to him that has him rethinking his standpoint on marriage.  Though Debbie does have hesitations about his job and the danger he  constantly puts himself in, she also understands his need to serve the  public. She doesn't stand in his way when it comes to his job but refuses  to let him throw up walls when he fears that the danger he faces might  drive her away. The author illustrates the development of their  relationship credibly by allowing her readers access to many of the  characters' internal thoughts. If not for this, I would have found it a bit  hardto sympathize with Cole. As it was, I enjoyed reading about these two  characters, especially Debbie whose generosity of spirit and heart really  lent a great deal to this story.	2000-09-06
US	51150291	RW406HJ5470GU	0373270984	279539339	Night of No Return (A Year of Loving Dangerously) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1028)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A man of many faces�	Who is Alex Bok? Is he the byproduct of a mid-eastern archaeological upbringing, an arms dealer, or a spy?  These are the facets of his  character Dr. Nora Lowe must sift through in order to find out who lies  beneath the man she saved in the desert some time ago. Now he has joined  her crew at their archaeological dig to assist her in the form of cheap  labor though she suspects that there is much more to his presence than he  is willing to tell. SPEAR Agent Alex Bok has his reasons for keeping silent  about not only his purpose for joining Nora's dig, but also his presence in  the desert that time she came upon him bleeding to death. He owes his life  to this woman whose innocence reluctantly renews his sense of humanity and  honor. As he comes to know and care for her, Alex finds himself making  promises, something he has never done before. All he knows is that he must  keep her safe.<br />Eileen Wilks continues the Year of Loving Dangerously  series where it left off last month. The overarching plot concerning the  mission to stop the traitor, Simon, from destroying Jonah, the head of  SPEAR, is Alex's goal in this story. Wilks does a splendid job of  developing the love that evolves between Alex and Nora even while she  integrates Alex's mission into it. The author paints a striking and  detailed image of the desert that is stark but alluring as well. She  enhances the feel of the desert by allowing her audience to understand what  Alex and Nora appreciate about it. Nora is a strong character whose dreams  play as important a role in her life as her structured practicality. Her  ability to confront her fears, combined with the strength of her endurance,  helps Alex to confront his own and lends a great deal of power to her faith  in him and his promises.	2000-09-01
US	51150291	R304IENYLMES3Z	0373243456	576326103	The M.D. She Had To Marry (Conveniently Yours) (Silhouette 1345)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The last thing she thought she�d ever do�	Nine months pregnant in a cabin on her cousin's Wyoming ranch, Lacey Bravo's worst fear becomes a reality when her ex-lover Dr. Logan Severance  shows up and starts to demand she marry him. She had reluctantly informed  him of the imminent birth of their child and her location because she  thought he had the right to know. The last thing she wants to do is marry  the man who is still in love with her sister. But marry him she will. Logan  is sure of that one fact. What he's always wanted is a family and a woman  to love him. Growing up with his austere father whose high expectations  perpetuated his own, Logan knows little of love. So when he realizes Lacey  loves him, he accepts it and proceeds to take it for granted. As a  teenager, Lacey was always a rebel so Logan is touched when she makes a  true attempt to embrace his way of life and his conservative associates.  What she wants is his support of her work as an artist, an acceptance of  her friends, and a way to smooth the rift that lies between him and her  sister. But Logan's disdain and pride refuse to let him make any overtures  in that direction until Lacey is forced to stand up to him for the sake of  her own self and to help him realize what love really means.<br />Christine  Rimmer has written a wonderful sequel to The Millionaire She Married. In  this story, Logan, who was left rejected by Lacey's sister, must come face  to face with the truth about himself. His high expectations have always  precluded his happiness. Until Lacey, his life was stark and gray. But  bringing Lacey into his life and into his home brings him a happiness that  he takes for granted. He feels Lacey should be grateful for the stability  he brings her. He is happy with the color she and their baby bring into his  life but doesn't realize that his restrained manner and disdain for her  friends and her work threaten the very thing she brings to their family,  which he prizes. Lacey is a strong heroine who isn't afraid to bend andtake a chance on happiness. She knows she loves Logan but she also  understands that he wouldn't be above using that knowledge against her. She  takes a chance that he will come to love her if they are married. Her  insight helps her realize that he does though he can't say the words but  she also realizes that she cannot be the one who gives entirely when it  comes to their marriage. She knows she must preserve her own character and  help Logan to have faith in the love she bears him.	2000-09-01
US	51150291	R2M47Q565KJD3P	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A gritty tales that will keep you on the edge of your seat	Helping kids goes against the grain for victim-witness advocate, Kate  Conlan. And yet, she can't help but be drawn to Angie DiMarco who claims  she saw the Cremator, a serial killer whose signature consists of burning  his tortured victims in a public area. His most recent victim, the daughter  of the wealthy and powerful Peter Bondurant, results in the aid enlistment  of FBI Agent John Quinn, a criminal profiler. When the Cremator continues  to flaunt his triumph, Quinn, along with a police task force, race against  the clock to stop this madman from destroying his next target.<br />Tami Hoag  has written a gritty tale that will keep you on a razor's edge as she  narratively races through twists and turns in order to help her reader  discover the identity of this killer and Angie DiMarco's connection to him  which plays a deceptively integral role in the story. Protagonists, John  Quinn and Kate Conlan, work hard from both ends of the legal system to  discover the link between these victims while the police attempt to track  and shake down possible suspects. Hoag fills her book with rich detail when  it comes to police procedure. She conveys through her characters the  frustration and rewards of the legal system as well as the unflattering  political side of it all. Sergants, Kovac and Liska provide an excellent  foil for Agent Quinn's proactive investigation and are engaging characters  that hook you with their dedication to the job. Rounding out this story is  the dark dynamic between Angie DiMarco and Kate Conlan whose seemingly  fleeting bond becomes their true salvation against a serial killer.	2000-08-30
US	51150291	R1MR7IFX652O77	0373270976	896661657	Night Shield (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #1027)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Night provides a cover that makes anything possible	A rash of nighttime burglaries in Denver forces Detective Allison Fletcher  to go undercover at Blackhawk's, a swanky nightclub and the only repetitive  link among the majority of the crimes committed. When Police Commissioner,  Boyd Fletcher, asks owner, Jonah Blackhawk to protect Allison's cover, he  gets a reluctant agreement that is prompted by what Blackhawk perceives to  be an old debt. Allison's aggressiveness and her dedication to her job are  two things that rub Jonah wrong about her. But when he finds himself  falling fast in love with her, he finds himself unable to emotionally  backpedal from her despite his certainty that he is the wrong man for her.  When Allison looks at Jonah, however, she sees more than he gives himself  credit for. As a truant who was reformed by her own father over the years,  she has always felt a little jealous of the bond they shared. But when  Allison gets to know Jonah, she quickly learns to see beyond the hard shell  he presents to the soft heart he possesses. Soon, she finds herself sharing  her love of sports, her love of family, and her heart with him. <br />This is  a wonderful sequel to the original Night Tales written by Nora Roberts.  Both Allison and Jonah are well written characters whose dedication to the  people they love is admirable. Allison is a strong woman and it is clear  that she has to be, in order to do her job. She has grown up with a  supportive family and the wealth of love and money that came with it. Jonah  works best at night with his informal family of reformed truants and  victims.  After being reformed by Allison's father, he unconsciously  followed in Boyd's footsteps in order to help his friends to a legally  rewarding way of life. Jonah truly is a softhearted man beneath the tough  exterior.  Perhaps it is because he knows this, however much he wishes to  deny it, that he is resistant when Allison invites him to become a part of  her family. Roberts makes it easy to care about Jonah whose softheart  makes it impossible for him to withdraw from the Fletchers and their  extended family and Allison with her strong sense of determination which  makes it impossible for Jonah to throw up any walls between them.	2000-08-30
US	51150291	R1W9Z64VH5RFZ0	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A triumphant debut novel�	By their king's order, Lady Christiana Fitzwaryn would marry David de  Abyndon, a man whose station is far beneath her but whose success as a  merchant allows him to pay the bride price for her hand. Believing she is  in love with another man, Christiana urges him to let her go only to find  herself reluctantly captivated by his gentle kindness and protective  concern for her. Slowly but surely, she comes to realize her love for him  in the happiness they share together.<br />David de Abyndon is more than just  a wealthy merchant his financial success has helped him overcome his dark  heritage as the bastard son of Joanna de Abyndon. His talent as a  cartographer and travels as a merchant make him the perfect tool to employ  in England's campaign to take Paris. But his love for Christiana and the  truth about his paternity leave him with more at stake than he ever thought  possible. With his heart and loyalties in jeopardy, David must struggle  with the concept of being a truly noble man as he makes a decision that  could change the course of his life forever.<br />Madeline Hunter's debut  novel is a triumph. It is full of rich historic detail and wonderfully  carved characters that come to life on the pages. I have never been as  touched by a character as I was by David de Abyndon who, despite the misery  of his childhood, manages to come out on top all the wiser and all the more  determined to succeed. His character is not without its insecurities but  his confidence in his capabilities and his loving concern for Christiana is  admirable. Hunter enriches his relationship with Christiana by drawing  parallels between her and the fate of his mother, which affected him  deeply. Hunter also paints Christiana as an innocent girl who is sometimes  ignorant by default but by no means lacks intelligence. Because he is older  and wiser, Christiana learns much from David and comes to understand him as  well as he understands her. At the same time, being with David allows her  to let go of many of her own uncertainties and opens her up to a more  unrestricted way of life. In illustrating this, Hunter strengthens both  characters and their relationship together. Also, though the campaign to  capture Paris is an integral part of the story, the pace the author assumes  from the very beginning is moderate. This is clearly a character-driven  book but it is an excellent story because of the strength of the characters  and the richness of detail.	2000-08-24
US	51150291	R26ATRK60I47WC	0373484178	647864502	Always A Lady (Silhouette Promo)	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Beyond her looking glass...	An accident shattered the life Lily Katherine Brownfield knew so well. The  remaining scar that mars the side of her face results in the end of her  engagement and a consistent feeling of inadequacy. Determined to seek a new  direction in life, she answers an advertisement from a newspaper in  Oklahoma and is hired on for three months at the Longren Ranch as a roundup  cook. The last thing rancher Case Longren expects is a cook who is both  young and beautiful. But to his surprise, not only does he find himself  admiring her spirit, her rapport with her family, and her cooking, he also  ends up falling unexpectedly in love with her in spite of her scar.<br />And  Lily is not immune to his good looks, kindness, strength, and charm. The  problem is Lily isn't sure she can trust Case to love her forever. She is  sure that one morning he will wake up to discover he has made a horrible  mistake in marrying a woman with a deformed face. After suffering from her  fiance's betrayal, Lily isn't about to risk her heart again. But Case's  persistence, his steadiness, and his dependability win her heart in a way  she never anticipates.<br />Sharon Sala has written an emotionally  heartwarming story about a woman who is afraid she'll never be loved for  anything beyond the beauty she possesses and a man who is strong enough to  put his heart on the line for her love and that of her family's. Both Case  and Lily help each other to accept circumstances of the past that were  beyond their control. With the strength of their love, Case comes to terms  with his mother's desertion and Lily learns to see beyond her looking  glass. The author skillfully lets her readers get in touch with the minds  of her characters and eases the way into understanding them both.	2000-08-19
US	51150291	R376STV50N0BJT	0373484097	935019372	Baby Bet: His Secret Son (Mills & Boon Superromance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Misunderstandings prove to be the backbone of this story	When Andrew Malone confronts Robert MacAllister about the desertion of his mother, he never expects the older man to suffer from a heart attack right  in front of his eyes. His plan to force MacAllister to admit to one and all  that his mother did matter falls through and guilt settles in as he joins  the rest of the family at the hospital where one of their own is on staff.  Dr. Kara MacAllister rethinks her instantaneous attraction to Andrew Malone  when her uncle collapses at the family reunion. But when she notices him  lurking in the shadows of the hospital, she can't help but feel that he is  sincere when he claims that he didn't intend to kill Robert and she also  feels an affinity towards him when she senses his loneliness. In the two  days they get to know each other, Andrew and Kara bond quickly over a baby  Kara is considering adopting and over the stories of their past concerning  Andrew's mother and the desertion of Kara's parents. <br />Eventually, after  hammering out the truth with Robert and establishing that neither he nor  Kara wants to marry, they go their separate ways with Andrew's half-hearted  agreement to come back to get to know the MacAllister side of his family.  Separately, as they go on with their lives, Andrew and Kara come to the  conclusion that they love each other but neither makes an attempt to seek  the other out. Andrew is convinced that Kara will never want to marry him  and vice versa. When his half-brothers demand that he come to visit their  father, Andrew thinks he has found the perfect excuse to embrace not just  his family but Kara as well. <br />Joan Elliot Pickart is writing a book with  a promising premise but her execution is lacking. Her narrative is episodic  and put together like patchwork instead of being fluid or engaging. The  MacAllister family is large and boisterous and she attempts to fit in every  character she can. The length of the book is longer which makes this more  feasible but similarly, the length should have allowed for more development  in Andrew and Kara's relationship. Instead, the book falters because Andrew  and Kara spend more time apart than they do together. In addition to this,  the baby they bond over becomes a source of contention between them in the  second half of the story when Andrew finds out that Kara is planning on  adopting the baby and depriving it of a father. He accuses her of being  selfish in attempting to do so even though he later rationalizes that the  baby would be deprived of nothing. He then spends the remainder of the  story attempting to figure out why he would lash out at her in such a  manner. As a result of so many misunderstandings and lack of communication  on the part of both Andrew and Kara, I found it hard to like either one of  them. Time that is spent revealing to the MacAllister family what is wrong  with their relationship would have been better spent discussing it together  in order to overcome their own obstacles rather than relying on the  judgement of others.	2000-08-19
US	51150291	R23OC3QVLSB597	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What a woman wants...	Over dinner, at the end of a horrible day, Jaine Bright and her three friends: Marci, Luna, and T.J., decide to write a list designed to  delineate what would make the perfect man. This list becomes the byproduct  of pent-up frustrations and disappointment when it comes to the men who  have been, and are, in their lives. It begins innocently enough in terms of  the quality of the characteristics desired but as the ladies' enthusiasm  grows so does the risque tone of the list and the conversation it  perpetuates. Soon, the list spirals out of their control and becomes fodder  for the media and subject to public scrutiny. For one colleague, it also  hits a little too close to home and perpetuates old feelings of bitterness  and inadequacy. Soon the four women find themselves the targets of a person  who believes they \\"don't deserve to live.\\"<br />Mr. Perfect is a story that is  intermittently both humorous and edgy. The suspense is razor-sharp and so  is the witty dialogue that is exchanged between Jaine and her neighbor  turned lover, Detective Sam Donovan. Jaine herself is a gutsy, take-action  heroine who keeps Sam on his toes as she struggles to keep friends and  family safe from the killer. <br />Linda Howard has written a terrific  romantic suspense story with an all too surprising ending. Even if you  think you know the identity of the killer, the author surprises you  somewhat with the motive which lies behind the killer's reasoning. Both Sam  and Jaine are engaging characters that drive the story to a great end. Pick  up this book and be engrossed by the friendship shared by these four ladies  who experienced some of their greatest moments and paid a heavy price for a  list that rang a little too true for everybody.	2000-08-17
US	51150291	R41GG71GJOKVB	0373270917	279978210	Game Of Chance (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1021)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A story worth waiting for	In order to take down terrorist Crispin Hauer, Chance Mackenzie must track down his daughter, Sunny Miller, and use her to lure the terrorist out into  the open. Wielding a great deal of power and influence, he intercepts her  at an airport posing as a charter pilot. Used to playing the game and  living out many roles, Chance finds himself stunned by the power Sunny  comes to wield over him through her strength of will and positive attitude.  <br />Despite the myth surrounding the Mackenzies, which started years ago, A  Game of Chance is a well-written story. While Chance succeeds at living up  to the expectations of readers, the main delight of this story is Sunny  Miller who is the cause of his long-awaited fall. Sunny is an admirable  heroine whose dark heritage is first a cause for suspicion and then a  source of relativity between her and Chance. She refuses, throughout the  story, to play second fiddle to what she suspects are Chance's true  domineering and protective tendencies. And despite the fact that Chance  does play the game well, Sunny suspects almost from the beginning, that he  is hiding his true nature.<br />Linda Howard seems to have faced a great deal  of pressure living up to the expectations her audience had for Chance but  she deals with them well. Her success lies in the strength of her  characters and they seem to truly drive the story even though the tone is  edgy enough to retain the reader's attention when the showdown takes place  and Sunny and Chance are forced to confront all their fears.	2000-08-16
US	51150291	R2GZ4AB27QTGL3	0373709307	399260381	That Summer Thing: Welcome to Riverbend (Harlequin Superromance No. 930)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A story that shows you can always go home	Beth Pennington returns to Riverbend, Indiana expecting to stay with her  brother and his family. Seeing her sister-in-law occupied with a full  house, however, she reluctantly agrees with her brother to make use of the  inheritance the town patriarch, Abraham Steele, left to her and her  ex-husband, Charlie Callahan. Though she fully intends to sell her half to  Charlie, Beth agrees there is no harm in using it for a weekend while  Charlie is out of town. She never expects the houseboat to leave the pier  until she awakens to find herself in the middle of the river.<br />The last  thing Charlie Callahan expects to find on board his houseboat when he takes  his ward fishing is his ex-wife. When he sees Beth after fifteen years of  successful avoidance on her part, Charlie has no intention of going back to  his past with her. He would, for the sake of their childhood together, like  to rekindle their friendship. When they both find themselves helping his  ward through a difficult time, they slowly and painfully begin confronting  their past and rekindling much more than their friendship. <br />Pamela Bauer  picks up the Riverbend mini-series where it left off last month. She  admirably retains the small-town atmosphere that was established last month  in the first installment. She also skillfully weaves Beth and Charlie's  past with their present with a great deal of success. She illustrates Beth  and Charlie's development through the established rapport between the two  and Charlie's ward, Nathan, as well as Beth's fractured friendship with  Charlie's sister, Lucy. Bauer has succeeded in writing a heart-warming  story about love and more importantly, the value of old friendships.	2000-08-15
US	51150291	R169P1BTGJSX5L	0373650620	979756786	Dad by Choice (Maitland Maternity, Book 1)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Strong characters yield a good start to a new series	In this first installment of a new Maitland Maternity series, Dr. Abby  Maitland finds herself juggling her life as a loving and supportive  daughter with that of her high-pressured life as a gynecologist. When an  unexpected baby is found on the doorstep of her family's maternity clinic,  Abby and her prominent family find themselves the targets of the media's  unflattering curiosity.<br />Her day continues on that note when expectant  uncle, Kyle McDermott is compelled to draw her into his family crisis. As  Marcie's respected gynecologist, Kyle attempts to persuade Abby to nudge  his sister into marriage with her boyfriend, preferably before the baby's  birth. Though Abby refuses to take sides, she is rather shocked when Kyle's  attentions toward her persist. Both Kyle and Abby are surprised when their  relationship deepens to friendship and progresses toward love.<br />Marie  Ferrarella has written a solid story to spearhead this series. Both Kyle  and Abby have strong personalities and the moderate speed of development  suits the quiet tone of this book. The tone is periodically disrupted by  the edgy quality of the overarching subplot concerning the mysterious baby  and its equally mysterious mother. The author, however, does a fantastic  job of establishing the strength and love of the Maitland family as well as  the family's maternity clinic. There are a number of secondary characters,  as well, whom Ferrarella sets up quite nicely for the books that follow.	2000-08-14
US	51150291	R1LA8BK5H3QXV6	0373168373	476368705	The Bride Said, I Did? (Harlequin American Romance, No. 837)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sharing a love that has missed its way	When film critic, Dani Lockhart sees actor, Beau Chamberlain walking  toward her house, she assumes he's there to continue their ongoing  flirtatious feud. To her surprise, he confronts her with the fact that they  are married and have been since their trip to his villa in Mexico three  weeks ago. It was a trip taken with the purpose of ending their  well-publicized feud. <br />Neither Beau nor Dani remember anything about  their trip to Mexico except for their purpose in going. What they do know,  thanks to Beau's research, is that the marriage certificate is real, they  were sober at the time, and now there is a baby on the way. Their friends  advise them to stay together in hopes that their memories of that fateful  trip will eventually return to them. Both Beau and Dani are sensible people  who have never been known to act on impulse. Therefore, they both realize  there must be a good reason why they got married. It's only a matter of  time before they figure it out.<br />Cathy Gillen Thacker has begun The  Lockharts of Texas with a solid start. The interesting premise keeps the  story going as Beau and Dani learn to see past the flirting and feuding in  order to fulfill their desire to keep their unexpected family together. The  time they spend in order to remember their marriage is also spent trying to  understand each other without the benefit of knowing how they mended their  fences in Mexico. This lends an anticipatory air that subtly keeps the  reader on edge throughout.	2000-08-10
US	51150291	R2UJ1DDKUGMXXQ	0373763115	823932366	Bride Of Fortune (Fortune's Children: The Grooms) (Desire, 1311)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	An engaging start to a new branch of the Fortune family	Jason Fortune, Vice-President of his family's construction company, has  his hands full dealing with the construction of the Children's Hospital he  has worked hard to make into a reality. His work and his daughter consume  his life and though he doesn't resent it, he sometimes feels there is an  emptiness in his life that can't be filled. Adele O'Neill is the ethics  consultant who is initially scorned by Jason. But her persistent drive and  longing to help children win him over professionally as well as  personally.<br />A woman who has never known family, Adele is moved by the  close-knit Fortune family and more specifically by her growing admiration  and love for Jason and his daughter, Lisa. And yet, she's convinced Jason  will never see her as a \\"keeper\\" and that she doesn't have what it takes to  be a mother to Lisa having never had one. <br />Leanne Banks begins a new  branch of the Fortune's Children series. This Arizona branch promises to be  as intriguing as the original branch in Minnesota. Both Jason and Adele are  well-defined and strong characters. Their story is an engaging one which  deftly lays down the groundwork for this complex family while never losing  touch with the fact that this is, in fact, Jason and Adele's story.	2000-08-09
US	51150291	R1C768CBSZC613	0373194633	676018712	Cherish The Boss (The Circle K Sisters) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An excellent conclusion to a wonderful trilogy	Logan Crawford has preconceived notions about a woman's place when it  comes to family. As a rancher, Abigail Kennedy doesn't fit any of them.  Still, as his boss, he can't help but admire her determination to push  herself as hard as any of the hands and he is fully aware of the fact that  his interest in her as a woman is inappropriate. <br />Abby Kennedy has long  resigned herself to being mannish, a strong contrast to her two sisters.  She knows she doesn't meet Logan's standards when it comes to being  feminine. What she doesn't realize is that her courage, strength, and inner  beauty are forcing Logan to correct his opinion when it comes to a woman's  station and causing him to tumble head over heels in love for a woman who  he feels is in a class all her own.<br />Judy Christenberry concludes her  Circle K trilogy with Abby's story. Her style is smooth, her dialogue is  smart, and Abby is an admirable heroine whose strength of character does  not allow her to dwell on her insecurities incessantly. Ironically enough,  it is Logan's attraction to her that brings them to the fore. Logan  Crawford is a delightful hero in the sense that he realizes rather quickly  that Abby is a woman worth risking his heart, and yes, his pride for.  Though Christenberry makes it clear at first that Logan firmly believes  that women need men to provide for and protect them, she also illustrates a  reversal of roles when Logan comes to the ironic conclusion that he needs  Abby as much as, if not more than, she needs him.	2000-08-09
US	51150291	R33M40EVD52Q61	0373650485	141881750	You Belong To Me (Montana Mavericks)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Love and obligation go hand in hand	Dr. Blake Remmington discovers he has a son the hard way. While treating a  college friend's son for what he suspects is a hereditary allergic reaction  to a bee sting, he comes to the conclusion that this boy is his son. Rather  than deny it, Serena Dovesong confirms his claim and, surprisingly,  encourages his attempts to bond with Nate. She claims their father-son  relationship has nothing to do with their friendship or their  relationship.<br />Blake and Serena have no idea where their relationship will  go. Blake is afraid Serena and Nate don't need him in their life and Serena  fears Blake will only view them as an obligation he must fulfill. Nate  surprisingly prefers to keep his own counsel on the matter. What Blake and  Serena learn, however, is that love and obligation go hand in hand. Blake's  love for Serena and Nate propels him to want to care for and protect them  even as the circumstances surrounding Nate's birth, as well as her own  childhood, cause Serena to fear being beholden to the man she has loved for  years.<br />Jennifer Greene has written a good story about a man whose  feelings of being rootless are quelled when he falls in love with Serena  and the incredibly bright child they've created together. Her writing is  steady and the characters she's drawn are strong. Much of Blake's  individual development stems from the integration of an overarching  subplot. But that, in turn, also works in favor of the development of  Blake's connection with the Dovesongs.	2000-08-08
US	51150291	R306QTYJQUEHRC	0373650477	412040614	Cheyenne Bride (Silhouette Montana Mavericks Series, No. 2)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A step up in the Whitehorn series	Leanne Harding runs away from her upcoming wedding only to come face to face with Cade Redstone, the second of Garrett Kincaid's illegitimate  grandsons, in a line shack when she seeks shelter from the storm. Cade, who  has been jilted at the altar before, initially feels sorry for the would-be  groom until he takes Leanne under his wing. He discovers that beneath the  spoiled girl image lies a woman determined to work hard in order to pursue  her dream, one that is similar to his own.<br />Leanne has a gift when it  comes to working with horses. She also has a protective brother and  repressive fiance who question her capability at every turn. So when Cade  steps in to give her time to decide for herself what she wants to do,  Leanne embraces the opportunity, and Cade, with open and hopeful arms. As  she and Cade juggle the deception of their marriage and their pursuit of a  dream, they find themselves falling unexpectedly in love.<br />Laurie Paige's  contribution to this series is a step up from its predecessor. Because the  background has been laid down and many of the characters introduced, the  reader is allowed more time to get to know Cade and Leanne. There is plenty  of development both in their relationship and especially in Leanne's  character, which resulted in a rather smooth progress for the book.  Overall, this installment of the Whitehorn series was an engaging read.	2000-08-08
US	51150291	RUB7NLAA5KODD	0373650469	127513812	Lone Stallion'S Lady (Montana Mavericks)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	History dares not repeat itself	A month ago, Private Investigator Gina Henderson made a mistake when she allowed her client's grandson to unknowingly seduce her. High on the  success of finding six of Garrett Kincaid's seven illegitimate grandsons,  she fell into the arms of the fifth, Trent Remmington. Now, on the  threshhold  of this unexpected, yet long anticipated, family gathering,  Gina must confront Trent with her deception and with the possibility of her  pregnancy.<br />Ironically enough, the private investigator Trent hired to  find Gina was entirely unnecessary. As he tries to orient himself with the  truth about his biological father, he also finds himself facing imminent  fatherhood if he could only convince Gina to marry him. After discovering  the terrible truth about his true father, Trent is even more determined  than ever to be there for his child.<br />What there is of Trent and Gina's  story is good but woefully inadequate. Jackson's writing is good but the  story's structure is fragmented. When I wanted to know more about Trent and  Gina as well as their relationship, I receieved a slew of information on  the history of Whitehorn, some of its extraneous characters, and Gina's  frustrating struggle to locate the seventh grandchild. By the story's end,  I felt that Jackson could have done well if she'd had a full-length novel  to work with. As it was, she had so much background to lay down, so many  characters to introduce, and too little space to accomplish it in. Still,  it was a pretty interesting start to a new mini-series.	2000-08-07
US	51150291	R2CDZCFII46HFO	1551666006	184768580	Angel Mine	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Another visit to the community of Whispering Wind	In a grocery store in New York City, Heather Reed gazes at her wailing child and realizes, after three years, that she can no longer accept the  extraordinary responsibility of single parenthood. As she tells her  irrepressible daughter, Angelique, they are going to find her father. Their  search leads them to Whispering Wind, Wyoming where an unsuspecting Todd  Winston now resides. Todd has been promoted to producer of &quot;Megan's  World&quot;, a successful home fashions network. After relocating from New  York, Todd has just about accepted Whispering Wind as his home though he  indulges himself with frequent trips back to the city. He's a man who is  detailed, organized, and basically a control freak due to a tragic accident  which took place when he was seventeen years old.<br />From the time of their  reunion, Todd and Heather find themselves still strongly attracted to each  other and marginally as much friends as they used to be. But Todd finds it  hard to look at Angel and not remember his consuming sense of guilt. A  sense of guilt that was hammered home years ago by his father. He is afraid  that being in contact with any child below the age of four will result in  that child's death due to his irresponsibility. <br />Sherryl Woods has  created a wonderful, if fictional, community. Whispering Wind is full of  colorful and supportive characters. Todd and Heather are both helped along  by friends and help their friends in turn. The author fully illustrates the  fact that this is a close-knit community. The narrative style is light and  engaging and makes for a good and easy read. I gradually came to like Todd  and Heather but would have liked more access into their internal thoughts  than was allowed. A prime example: if I had known what was behind his fear  of caring for babies, I would have been able to understand and even  sympathize with his harsh treatment of Heather and Angel at times. As it  was, I did enjoy the story overall and loved revisiting thecommunity I was  drawn to in the prequel. And in the end, I was glad to experience and  believe in Todd, Heather, and Angel's happy ending.	2000-08-04
US	51150291	R1GFW9GDK7YTN	0373121261	468367883	Rhys's Redemption (Harlequin Presents, No. 2126)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A story that proves love is truly the greatest redeemer	After losing his wife and unborn child years ago in a fire, Rhys Wolfe  swore never again to forge familiy ties. So when he crosses the lines of  friendship by turning to neighbor, and friend, Mariah Kelly for comfort in  a dark moment, he is determined to reestablish their friendship in the  hopes that nothing has changed. Unfortunately for Rhys, nothing will ever  be the same again.<br />Mariah Kelly has loved her friend Rhys for years and  she dares to hope that having their baby inside of her will help him to  confront his past and move on. Since she knows a child is the last thing he  wants, however, she is fully prepared to care for their child on her own.  But she isn't going to give up hope that he'll come to love her, and the  child they made together, without a fight.<br />Anne McAllister has written an  emotionally stirring tale of two friends who must deal with the  ramifications of a long-developed, and mutual, passion. Rhys begins as a  man who is determined to be a distant, even uninvolved, father, Despite his  original intent, he can't seem to let go of his concern and affection for  Mariah as a friend or his attraction to her as a woman. Mariah is a  strongly drawn character who is unafraid to face the prospect of single  parenthood even though it is not her method of choice. She loves Rhys but  knows she is taking a huge risk by hoping he will come to love her and  their child. In a story full of wit, humor, and hope Anne McAllister brings  together two friends who eventually come to love the family they have  created together.	2000-08-03
US	51150291	R36IMT8FTYMFAI	0373270925	743306167	Undercover Bride (A Year of Loving Dangerously) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1022)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	There is more to Caleb Carpenter than meets the eye	SPEAR agent, Rachel Grunwald, infiltrates The Brotherhood of Blood as Caleb Carpenter's prospective bride. Her mission is to investigate the nature of the white supremacist organization's relationship with a man  called Simon. A man set on destroying Jonah, the head of SPEAR.<br />But when  Rachel meets Carpenter she senses that he is a man who possesses many  secrets and is not entirely true to the image he projects. In fact, Rachel  is almost certain that the &quot;venom-spewing racist&quot; is much more  than what he seems. While her heart tells her Caleb possesses an inherent  decency which is at odds with his plans as a white supremacist leader, her  keen mind is determined to take him and his organization down in addition  to finding out more about Simon.<br />Brant does an excellent job of building  and sustaining the edgy quality of this story. Both Caleb and Rachel are  intriguing characters and strong individuals. The author successfully  illustrates Rachel's personal stake in bringing down supremacist militia  groups as the daughter of one. In addition, Brant gives us veiled glimpses  into the emotional side of Caleb's characterization as he struggles and  deals with the development of his love for Rachel. This allows Brant's  audience to realize that Rachel's suspicions about Carpenter are correct  without giving away his secrets. By doing this, Caleb is truly presented as  a three-dimensional character and the story's conclusion is believable as  well as rewarding. Kylie Brant picks up this mini-series where it left off  last month and, in my estimation, it keeps getting better.	2000-08-01
US	51150291	R24MUSZPZ6509U	0373709080	914527718	Finally a Family (Harlequin Superromance No. 908)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Two fractured families help to heal each other	After her experience with a debilitating ulcer, Alexis Castle has little choice but to take a vacation from her high-pressured life. She sees this vacation to Catasaga Lake as the perfect opportunity to heal the rift  between herself and her increasingly estranged daughter, Jamie. She also  decides to look into Guardian Flight, a company who is looking to the  Castle Foundation for a much needed grant to fund a new helicopter. Spence  Keagan, the chief rescue pilot for Guardian Flight, has his own problems  when it comes to family. Years ago, he escaped from his father's plans for  him in order to pursue his dream of flying. Now history seems to be  repeating itself as he struggles to establish a rapport with his own son,  Jeff.<br />Both Alexis and Spence are drawn to each other. But it is really  their struggle to strike a balance with their respective families which  brings them closer togeter and integrates the two families. As three  generations of Castles and Keagans attempt to come to terms with old  misunderstandings, Alexis and Spence find themselves helping each other and  falling in love in the interim. <br />Kathryn Shay has written a great story  about two strong individuals. Both Alexis and Spence learn through their  fathers, children, and each other, that life can't always be the way you  want it to be. They struggle with the come-and-go variables which sometimes  overshadow the constant love that comes almost unthinkingly where family is  concerned. Most importantly, both characters learn to compromise as they  try to juggle family, careers, and commitments they love.	2000-08-01
US	51150291	R331RP3KF6XDU5	0373243227	151932385	The Millionaire She Married (Conveniently Yours / Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A story about self-discovery	Jenna Bravo wants to get married. The problem is, she already has a husband. In order to marry her high-school sweetheart, her husband, Mack McGarrity, must send her the divorce papers which were never finalized.  Mack, however, has something different in mind. In exchange for the  notarized papers, Jenna must spend two weeks alone with him so that he can  understand what went wrong during their marriage.<br />This is a story of  self-discovery on the parts of both Jenna and Mack. By marrying Mack, Jenna  gave up her chance to use her degree in business administration. Mack, in  turn, destroyed his marriage due to his unswerving ambition to amass a  fortune and the security he feels it will bring them both. By the time he  attained it, Jenna wanted nothing to do with him.<br />Rimmer does an  excellent job of weaving pieces of Mack and Jenna's past with the present  in order to illustrate how far each has come on their own. Jenna is the  owner of a home fashions specialty shop and Mack has learned to unwind with  his fortune. He has come to realizes that without Jenna it doesn't mean  much to him at all. <br />The extent of Mack's self-discovery goes far deeper  than Jenna's. As he struggles to come to terms with his mother's desertion  and his unwillingness to start a family, the reader can't help but  sympathize with his insecurities because he truly makes an effort to  overcome them. <br />Rimmer hints at a story between Jenna's sister and  ex-fiance. Based on Mack and Jenna's story, I can't wait to read theirs.	2000-07-28
US	51150291	R3E3QFT4XKDMUZ	0373079931	461695961	Just a Wedding Away (Conveniently Wed) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 993) (Intimate Moments, 993)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful story about friendship and parenting	Fifteen years ago, an error in judgement tore best friends, Reese Collins and Alexandra Ricci, apart. It was a mistake they both paid a heavy price for. But now, Reese needs Alex's help if he wants to fulfill his brother's  request to care for his daughters in the event that something should happen  to him. In order to stop their disapproving mother from obtaining custody  of his nieces, Reese feels compelled to marry. Ultimately, Alex is the only  woman he feels is suited for the roles of wife and mother. In order for  their plan to go through, they must marry quickly and sacrifice time that  is needed to fully heal the rupture of their friendship which took place so  long ago. <br />Monica McLean writes a powerful story about the value of a  strong friendship in the face of misunderstood parenting. A certified  genius, Alex never felt normal until Reese brought her out of her shell.  And Reese, who was adopted by the Collinses, never felt valued until Alex  believed in him unconditionally. McLean also develops an excellent rapport  between the three girls and the two protagonists without detracting from  the development of Reese and Alex's relationship. This is the first story  of McLean's I've read and it was a pleasure.	2000-07-27
US	51150291	R2KI8SOU6YOLGU	1551665700	107974389	Whiskey Island	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A secret kept for over a century	Whiskey Island is the compelling story of the Donaghue sisters whose past is full of pain but whose history is about to be traced back to three men whose love for Lena Tierney irrevocably sets in motion a chain of events  that lead to a terrible tragedy and a horrifying scandal.<br />Niccolo  Andreani, a former priest, agrees to transcribe the journal kept by Father  Patrick McSweeney who valiantly tended to his flock of Irish immigrants  over a hundred years ago. Niccolo finds himself with more questions than  answers when he comes into contact with the Donaghue sisters, the little  girl under their protection, and the old man who harbors the truth to a  murder that took place years ago. An old man who might be their father.  <br />Richards has crafted a powerful story as she allows readers to become  acquainted with characters from the present as well as the past. The length  of this novel is appropriate because it gives the author the means of  exploring the lives of the Donaghues of the present and, more importantly,  the struggle endured by the Tierneys. A tragic struggle witnessed years ago  by their best friend, Rowan Donaghue, and counseled by their priest,  Patrick McSweeney. <br />The characterizations, drawn by Richards, of all  these people are strong and distinctive. Her audience will be swept away by  the powerful history of Whiskey Island and the intrigue of its present  state. Furthermore, the author has so intricately intertwined the two to  create a story whose development will have you turning pages in  anticipation and feeling bittersweet, yet satisfied, with its conclusion.	2000-07-25
US	51150291	R3FINLGV4H8Y9T	0373243294	109802878	To a Macallister Born : The Baby Bet (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1329) (Special Edition, 1329)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Having a little faith	Jennifer Mackane's life revolves around her little boy Joey. And though Joey adamantly demands she find a &quot;groom guy&quot;, Jennifer is as determined not to remarry for reasons of her own. But when Jack  MacAllister, a friend of a friend, passes through town, she finds herself  bending her own rule not to get involved with any man for the rest of her  life. The &quot;essence of femininity&quot; she was so sure she had  deliberately shut down, opens up to this man who makes it clear that there  is more to their chemistry than blind attraction. He wants to discover what  it is and has no qualms about confronting her about it. <br />I found this  story be very hard to get into. Pickart makes a lot of references to  characters whom I suspect are in another series. She also spends a good  amount of time implementing them into the story. They tended to predominate  the story at times and I would rather have learned more about Jack and  Jennifer instead. As it was, I found both characters hard to sympathize  with. Jack is constantly second-guessing Jennifer and her motivations for  starting their relationship though he initially railroaded her into it. He  has a hard time believing that he was capable of even that. He puts a dark  spin on what she says to him when it comes to words he associates with  commitment. In addition to this, rather than redeem himself based on his  own judgement, Jack falls back on the judgement of the secondary  characters. Jennifer, the more admirable of the two characters, tells  herself she is strong after the devastation of her first marriage but  compromises this by allowing herself to be railroaded by Jack in the first  place. Pickart manages to write an average story here and sets it in a  picturesque location but I felt her characterizations and development could  have been a lot stronger and understandable if she had devoted a little  more time to it.	2000-07-20
US	51150291	RVIEK9PGZ5GG9	0373440979	600588252	Three Babies and a Bargain/Baby Bonus? (Harlequin Duets 31)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Two interesting premises	In Hoffman's Three Babies and a Bargain, Professor Jillian Marshall convinces her sister, Roxane, that she can take care of her triplet toddlers while Roxane and her husband are on their second honeymoon. She is  completely convinced that she could do better than Roxane because she  understands that organization is the key to giving the children a  structured existence. Nick Callahan is building shelves for Roxane and her  husband as a favor for lending him their guest house for the summer. He  comes to Jillian's rescue and basically spends the rest of the story  bailing her out of disasters created by her own misguided devotion to  organization. <br />Hoffman does a great job setting up a rapport between Nick  and the triplets but she might have been better served developing a  stronger one between him and Jillian. Nick's quick wit and generous sense  of humor save the day as well as this story. The reader is never given the  chance to warm up to Jillian because of her inflexibility as well as her  calculated models on what disaster would strike next because of her  ineptitude. Rather than truly learning from Nick how to care for the  children, much of the story is spent witnessing her relying on him instead.  Hoffman spends so much time focusing on Nick and Jillian creating a  temporary family with the triplets that the story weakens when it comes to  their own relationship. <br />In the story by Sandra Paul, Jessica Kendall is  the operations officer of a Los Angeles bank who has been frequently  targeted as being easy to rob due to the fact that five of their tellers  are pregnant. Security adviser, Mitch Flaherty, takes action to prevent  another robbery by implementing a number of new procedures and policies  which irritates Jessica because she has to be the one to soothe and comfort  the tellers who are trying to acclimate to the new rules. Though Jessica  feels Mitch has usurped her authority, she tries to help for the sake of  the bank and its tellers. Herinnate tendency to nurture eventually extends  to Mitch who wants to act on the attraction they feel for each other.  <br />Paul's story is clearly the stronger of the two in terms of  characterization. Both Mitch and Jessica are clearly defined by their  actions as well as the secondary characters who rely on her and get to know  him. Their relationship is clearly the focus of this story and though  babies do play a role in this story, they only enhance their relationship  rather than playing an integral role in the story.	2000-07-19
US	51150291	R3QHW6JWJEN04G	0373709242	47277889	Birthright (Welcome to Riverbend / Harlequin Superromance, No. 924)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Riverbend is a town where no one is what they seem	Abraham Steele, beloved Riverbend patriarch, brings Aaron Mazerik and Lily Bennett Holden together. It is at Steele's funeral that the high school basketball coach and counselor, a reformed bad boy, decides to approach the  wealthy widow for money for his summer program for underprivileged town  children.<br />Lily Bennett, the byproduct of an affluent and happy upbringing  (ie. a River Rat), had married into wealth fifteen years ago because she  had fallen in love with a Boston attorney. After a disastrous ten-year  marriage, she returns to Riverbend to heal and yes, to hide in her newly  purchased house and to paint her still lifes. Her actions cause people to  believe that she grieves for her husband and she does nothing to correct  them for fear of disappointing the town's opinion of her. The truth is, she  is far from being the perfect girl they always thought she was. <br />Both  Aaron and Lily have their past reputations to deal with and Arnold  illustrates this well through their developing friendship. Lily finds it  hard to believe, at first, that bad boy Aaron has become a respectable  teacher. Aaron comes to realize that Lily's seeming self-assurance is  actually shyness. And there is a major conflict concerning Aaron and his  mother denying him his birthright. For thirty-three years, Aaron has  struggled with the truth surrounding his paternity and he fully believes  that it hinders any chance of a relationship with Lily in the most  fundamental way. <br />Arnold is off to a great start with Riverbend and it is  to be hoped that the other five authors, whose stories comprise this  mini-series, can pick up her thread and continue. Riverbend is a small town  but Arnold illustrates it beautifully through her narration. Through her  fluid prose, she has shown that she is an artist, like her heroine, but  words are her medium of choice.	2000-07-18
US	51150291	R14K9DDSMAVVV2	0373243332	321188483	Pint - Sized Secret (And Baby Makes Three: The Delacourts Of Texas) (Special Edition, 1333)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Trust proves to be the foundation of a solid relationship	In this second story of Sherryl Woods's sub-series, The Delacourts of Texas, Jeb Delacourt is hot on the heels of Brianna O'Ryan, brilliant geologist and industrial spy...or so he thinks. When three deals go sour at  Delacourt Oil and his own father, a cutthroat businessman, shrugs at the  loss, Jeb becomes determined to figure out why Brianna is betraying the  company she apparently has every reason to be loyal to. Brianna does have a  secret and it has nothing to do with industrial espionage. Against her  better judgement, she finds herself charmed by Jeb Delacourt though she  suspects he has an ulterior motive in beginning a relationship with her.  <br />It would have been simple to let their story be consumed with constant  misunderstandings and petty feelings due to the bitter nature of these  circumstances which are seemingly beyond their control. Instead, Woods  strongly emphasizes the lack of trust to be what hinders them by strong  arguments on the part of both characters. The author also spends a great  deal of narrative time establishing first their friendship and then their  growing love for each other. Because of this, when Jeb lowers the ax, the  reader feels the extent to which it has become personal between the two of  them. While Jeb is misguided, and overly enthusiastic, about his desire to  become an investigator, Brianna is smart and savvy in her approach to  discovering the leak. In the end, the truth may not surprise you but the  depth of the role it plays in bringing Jeb and Brianna together just might.	2000-07-17
US	51150291	R234UFF5ER7F35	0373194579	121624787	The Borrowed Groom (The Circle K Sisters) (Silhouette Romance, 1457)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A story with a great deal of heart	The second story of the Kennedy sisters involves Melissa Kennedy and the Circle K's new ranch foreman, Rob Hanson. Melissa, a bred-in-the-bone nester, has opened up a home of her own on the Circle K in order to take  care of foster children. The problem is, Social Services does not like the  idea of single parenting no matter how great the love and care she claims  she can give the children.<br />Enter Rob Hanson, whose daughter is entering  adolesence and whose friendship with Melissa is something he perceives as a  threat to their father-daughter relationship. But when he becomes drawn to  the children in Melissa's care as well, he commits to the role of a faux  fiance for the sake of the children as well as his growing admiration,  respect, and love for Melissa. <br />Christenberry does a wonderful job of  writing Rob and Melissa's story. There's a great deal of heart in their  relationship on a lot of different levels. His reluctance to commit himself  to marriage is overcome by Melissa's boundless love for the children,  something he wishes she could feel for him. The author cements the story  with the development of the main characters' feelings for the children and  this aspect of the story added a great amount of depth. <br />The Circle K  trilogy improves with this installment and I am looking forward to reading  the Abby's story.	2000-07-14
US	51150291	R3G259GL8AWOBK	0373194536	785332462	Never Let You Go (The Circle K Sisters) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A story saved by style	In this first story about the Kennedy sisters, Beth Kennedy meets and matches wits with Jed Davis, her new trainer. Striving to be the best barrel racer possible, Beth needs Jed's assistance. But his feelings for  Beth make Jed want to continue on down the isolated road of his  life.<br />Christenberry has crafted a good story here. Both Beth and Jed have  suffered a similar loss in their lives which Beth feels should bring them  together though Jed feels her wealth drives them apart. She feels his  prejudice is unwarranted and he believes that her heart is too soft.  There's a great deal of miscommunication between the two of them but an  equal amount of character development that goes on during their interaction  with, as well as independently of, each other. <br />The development of these  two characters is fully illustrated through Christenberry's wry and witty  tone when it comes to these characters, especially Jed and his  self-deprecation. I really enjoyed the rapport between the three sisters  and am looking forward to their stories in the upcoming months ahead.	2000-07-14
US	51150291	R3VSMUMLBR35QJ	0373270860	768627142	Mission: Irresistible; A Year of Loving Dangerously (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1016)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent start of a new series	Sharon Sala begins a new sub-series to the Intimate Moments line with Mission: Irresistible. In this installment, ex-SPEAR agent, Easton Kirby is  compelled to assist Agent Alicia Corbin in her endeavor to save the head of  the SPEAR organization whom no one has ever seen and very few should know  about. Jonah, as he is called, is actually a series of men who adopt the  name and the accompanying anonymity. This particular Jonah finds himself  being threatened by someone who knows of his existence and knows his  identity. He sends Alicia to persuade East to assume an active status. East  is very reluctant to do so and though the guilt sits heavily upon him, he  refuses to assist until his son is kidnapped. For the sake of his son, he  will get involved and help Jonah along the way.<br />Sala gives a good and  steady start to this new series: A Year of Loving Dangerously. Alicia is a  strong and dedicated agent who is also terribly naive when it comes to  matters of the heart. But her instincts are right on the mark when it comes  to deducing, rather quickly, that Easton Kirby will mean more to her than  she could ever imagine. East finds himself falling fast, and irrevocably,  in love with the woman who is determined to help him save his son as well  as Jonah. Though the book spans a very short amount of time, consistent  interaction between East and Alicia kept the relationship between the two  moving progressively and this, I thought, was very admirable considering  the time constraint when it came to saving East's son. I look forward to  pursuing this series because it has an interesting premise which doesn't  directly involve the main characters in each story but results, indirectly,  in bringing them together.	2000-07-13
US	51150291	R1XTBYT6WIZW16	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Rowling moves on to more serious matters	In this fourth installment of the Harry Potter books, the title character and his friends face new delights and new dangers as a secondary character moves into a more primary sphere.<br />The Goblet of Fire parallels its  predecessors in part by beginning with Harry's stay on Privet Drive with  the Dursleys. He is rescued from this sad situation by the Weasleys who  invite him, rather humorously, to the Quidditch Cup Tournament. Under  duress, his uncle allows him to go. The tournament itself is a success but  activities that follow afterward unleash chaos at the Ministry of Magic.  Meanwhile, at Hogwarts, Harry finds that they must forsake Quidditch, as  the sport of choice, in favor of the Triwizard Cup Tournament.<br />Rowling  clearly shows that Harry and his friends are maturing in their fourth year.  The Triwizard Cup Tournament, especially, releases pent up resentments and  a number of infatuations. Harry shows the development of a moral fiber that  clearly surpasses those around him as he tries to dodge unwanted help and  unwanted press in his struggle as the unprecedented fourth champion in the  Triwizard Cup Tournament.<br />Without giving anything of importance away in  terms of plot, I'd like to say that Rowling is clearly moving on to more  serious matters. The entire atmosphere of the book contains moments of  tension and mounting anxiety that will keep you turning the pages to  discover how the plot thickens and develops. Rowling's incredible talent  keeps the suspense building throughout the book. The Goblet of Fire will  leave you looking forward to Harry Potter V.	2000-07-12
US	51150291	R1GZNNAN5CA047	0373763077	536884640	Blood Brothers (Desire, 1307)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Two wonderfully engaging stories	It all begins when Gabe McBride walks into a trap of his own making. In  attempting to liberate his cousin, Randall Stanton, Gabe sets himself up  for a period of responsibility and challenge as he travels to Devon to save  a newly acquired newspaper. His cousin Randall travels to Montana to run  the MBbar under the belief that his Aunt Elaine would bear the brunt of the  responsibility so that he can relax as Gabe suggests.<br />Anne McAllister and  Lucy Gordon create two splendid stories bound into one when they team up to  write this book. The prologue and epilogue flow smoothly though two  individual minds were working on it. Each story, however, bears the  individual stamp of their respective author's style and culture. <br />In  writing Gabe's story, Anne McAllister sticks to what she does best and she  does it well when Gabe meets Frederica Crossman and her two children. In  what seems to be a trademark of McAllister's style, the reader comes to  understand Gabe and his feelings of inadequacy, especially when he realizes  the satisfaction that truly comes with achieving something. In addition,  Frederica comes across as a strong heroine who protects her children to a  fault but who learns from Gabe that such fierce sheltering of her children  might actually do more harm than good.<br />Lucy Gordon's tone is more quiet  when we approach the MBbar. In Montana, the reader learns that Aunt Elaine  has traveled to England to visit her father, Earl Stanton, and has left the  ranch under the care of Claire Stevens, the orphan child who was left on  the porch of their ranch years ago. While Randall gradually overcomes the  prejudice of the hands at the MBbar, Claire comes to look beyond the face  he shares with Gabe, the man she thought she loved, and to love Randall for  who he is and not the title he bears. <br />This is a wonderful story that  will engage readers with its emotional pull when it comes to the bond  between these two cousins and their strong sense offamily.	2000-07-07
US	51150291	R15EKLUXEE6EFT	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Evanovich outdoes herself again	When I think of the relationship between Ranger and Stephanie Plum, I can't help but compare it to that of a Jedi Master to his apprentice. So, when Stephanie rejects the job of nabbing her mentor who has gone FTA, it  is likely that it was out of loyalty but more, out of inadequacy. Stephanie  believes that anything she can do, Ranger can do better. The job is handed  off to Joyce &quot;The Homewrecker&quot; Barnhardt and she, along with two  odd henchmen, begin to follow Stephanie around in the belief that she will  lead them directly to Ranger. <br />Evanovich succeeds in creating another  sharp-edged, fast-paced suspense story that surpasses her previous  installments. In this story, Stephanie must confront a homicidal rapist who  has gone FTA, a Romulan uprising at a Star Trek convention, Ranger's  constant breaking and entering, Carol Zabo and her perpetual suicidal  pursuits, a new furniture-eating companion, and last but not least, there's  Grandma Mazur who has decided to temporarily move in with her. <br />Through  it all, Stephanie manages to whirlwind her way through destruction, danger,  and murder with an admirable sense of style. She continuously outsmarts  those who stand in her way either deliberately or accidentally. She has her  share of luck and misfortune but it is always her spunkiness that gets her  to the end alive.	2000-07-07
US	51150291	R2W1A4YQ6559GM	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Because family comes first	In this installment of Janet Evanovich's series, Stephanie Plumfinds herself submitting to her mother and aunt's request that shefind out what happened to her penny-pinching Uncle Fred whom no one really liked, much less cared about. In spite of her protests that she is not a detective, Stephanie goes out of her way to discover the truth behind Fred's disappearance...If only her uncle's disappearance was all she had to worry about...High Five is a fast-paced, sharp-edged, page-turning read that will literally leave you hanging on to the edge of your seat by the story's end. I started the Stephanie Plum series two years ago based on numerous recommendations and I can honestly say that each book gets better and better. Evanovich has created a daring and spunky heroine in Stephanie Plum. But even more than that, she has created an incredible microcosm which has its share of explosive situations and hilarious incidents. I recommend that you have Hot Six at the ready once you've completed this installment because you don't want to have to wait a year in order to discover the resolutions to one of the best cliffhangers ever.	2000-07-07
US	51150291	R15C9JTBC5HB8K	0373243286	48776421	Irish Rebel (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1328) (Irish Hearts)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Back to where it all started	In this spinoff to Irish Thoroughbred, Nora Roberts goes back to where it all began, only this time the roles are gender flipped. Brian Donnelly, a gifted horse trainer, is hired on at Royal Meadows to succeed Paddy Cunnane  who has put in a  good word for our hero much as he did for his niece years  ago. Keeley Grant is the eldest daughter of Travis Grant and Adelia  Cunnane. <br />Half believing her reputation for being cold, Keeley is  somewhat surprised to find herself sparring with, and attracted to, the  Irishman. Brian, in turn, is shocked when he finds himself falling fast,  not to mention inappropriately, in love with his boss's daughter.<br />Roberts  does a pretty good job of developing Brian and Keeley's story and I was not  disappointed overall. While I really found much to admire in Keeley, it  took substantially longer to warm up to Brian for the exact same reason  Keeley states during one of their initial confrontations. He's a  &quot;snob.&quot; But as he struggled with his feelings for Keeley, I found  myself understanding a bit more about his insecurities when it came the  difference in their class status and upbringing.<br />Roberts revisits  original characters from her Irish books without detracting from Brian and  Keeley's story. She also does a great job of illustrating the closeness of  the Grant family. This is especially noticeable when Keeley needs support  which, as Brian points out, isn't very often given her need to be admirably  self-sufficient.	2000-07-03
US	51150291	R70XY43I4FB8N	0393955893	663601579	Jane Eyre: Authoritative Text, Backgrounds, Criticism (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	An Independent Heroine	From the time of her uncle's death, Jane Eyre's existence at Gateshead has become unbearable. Her aunt dotes on her own three children and never lets Jane forget that she is living off of the Reeds's charity. After  frightening her Aunt Reed with her willfulness and ingratitude, Jane is  sent to Lowood School where she continues to exist for eight years.<br />After  placing an advertisement in a paper, she is hired on as a governess at  Thornfield where she meets and falls in love with Edward Fairfax Rochester.  But a series of odd and dangerous events which take place at Thornfield  succeed in tearing them apart until Jane realizes that she must journey  alone or else compromise her own sense of self forever. <br />Jane Eyre is a  novel about a woman who comes to realize that she must hold on to herself.  Bronte's heroine is strong, willful, and isolated. Her hero is constantly  referring to her in an otherworldly sense. But what he sees is otherworldly  is simply a strong independent streak. This independence is what the author  seems to urge women to cultivate through the character of Jane Eyre. Bronte  reinforces the strength of Jane's character by making her plain. By doing  this, she forces us to realize the beauty of her character rather than her  looks. She has none to recommend her and no fortune to appeal to a man so  the reader is certain that it is her character which appeals to Rochester.  <br />The road towards a happy ending is not easy for Rochester and Jane. In  fact, even before discovering the truth about the woman in the attic, Jane  has taken measures to preserve herself by writing to her uncle in Madeira  even though she tells Rochester that she has no family aside from the  Reeds, whose connection to her she is forced to admit when Aunt Reed calls  for her. This perpetuates the unraveling of their happiness. From the point  of separation, however, Bronte sets Jane on the road to self-discovery.  With her Rivers cousins, whom she discovers after leaving Thornfield, she  comes to realize her full capacity as a cousin, a teacher, and her  potential as a servant of God. <br />By the story's end, when Bronte has led  her title character back to a devastated Thornfield, Jane is truly  independent in both character as well as finance. There is a role reversal  which the reader discovers. No longer is Rochester offering to take care of  her, it is Jane, rather, who is in the position of power as she becomes  Rochester's helpmeet from the time of their reunion.	2000-07-01
US	51150291	R2NBAUTZ1ZXSM7	0373709188	508414588	The Last Man in Texas: The Malloy Men (Harlequin Superromance No. 918)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful story about appreciating what you have	Cameron Malloy's life has been one of constant ease. His great looks have allotted him a revolving door policy where women are concerned and he has made a success of his advertising company, on the surface. In truth, his  concern with the image of his company has marred the perfection of his life  and now he must pay the price, in more ways than one.<br />Elizabeth,  Cameron's partner and longtime friend, has loved him for years. So when  Cameron verbally explodes in her face and reveals painfully pent up truths  about her inability to handle reality, Elizabeth hands him the reality of  her resignation. Now Cameron must hurry to regain what was overlooked and  underappreciated in order to save a friendship he has come to count on  implicitly.<br />This is the first novel I've ever read by Jan Freed and I  enjoyed it tremendously. Cameron Malloy commits plenty of blunders  throughout this novel but it is clear that Elizabeth is ready to give as  good as she gets where he is concerned. I enjoyed the fact that her  resignation from his company liberated her in many ways even though a deal  is in place that ties her temporarily to it. Her subsequent actions reflect  that she can no longer stand back and watch life unfold in front of her and  Cameron is at his wit's end trying to reconcile the Elizabeth he's known  with the Elizabeth he is discovering. This is a fantastic story about a man  who learns what the consequences are for taking things for granted the hard  way.	2000-06-27
US	51150291	R1VKJ4CFIY8S4	0373708580	210494198	Talk to Me: By the Year 2000: Celebration (Harlequin Superromance No. 858)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Opening the lines of communication	A talk show brings our hero and heroine together nine years after their divorce. Travis Malloy accepts the ticket to this show as payment for services rendered as a fishing guide. Kara Taylor takes her grandmother,  who is an avid fan of the hostess, to the touring talk show out of  affection. The topic is communication betwen couples, and after considering  this, neither character can help but take up where they left off nine years  ago.<br />Travis sits in the audience and he commiserates with the men. He  eventually becomes their spokesperson. He has had nine years to determine  what went wrong in his marriage to Kara and he is voicing his own  frustration as he seeks to counsel couples by benefit of prior  experience.<br />Kara fumes in her seat as she hears the one-sidedness to the  male argument. When Travis answers in a way that brings back the painful  memories of miscommunication, she can't stop herself from confronting him  on national television.<br />This begins the start of a reunion novel by Jan  Freed. It is well written and focuses, throughout, on the lines of  communication between men and women. I really enjoyed this aspect of the  novel because it was humorous and rang true. As a story, Talk To Me  successfully illustrates a few of Dr. Gray's concepts on the relationship  between men and women.  While reading this story, however, I felt that  though Kara argued well on the behalf of women, it was really Travis who  succeeded in opening up the lines of communication between the two of them  in order to confront Kara's insecurities and to find the happiness they had  long denied themselves.	2000-06-27
US	51150291	R3EKKUYXAAFDXG	0515128015	862934849	Eclipse Bay	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A refreshingly different novel	Hannah Harte returns to Eclipse Bay eight years after saving Rafe Madison from impending imprisonment. She comes back to the small community when Rafe refuses to discuss selling his half of Dreamscape, Isabel Harte's  legacy to them both. While they attempt to agree on a business partnership  as well as a co-existing personal relationship, they must find out what  went on that night eight years ago before the truth threatens to destroy  them.<br />In expressing my opinion of this book to a friend, I couldn't  really put my finger on what made this particular Krentz title so great  whereas her others have simply been good. It came to my mind however as I  recommended it to her. Eclipse Bay is set away from the city and requires,  due to a somewhat small community, a different tone, if not style. I  enjoyed the atmosphere of Eclipse Bay in terms of location as well. It  seemed so refreshing compared to Krentz's Seattle setting. While I enjoy  the city, there is something very personal about Eclipse Bay and Krentz  illustrates this by taking us through it narratively and describing the  origin of certain landmarks. These personal touches brought the place to  life for me in a way the impersonal Seattle settings didn't. In addition to  that, there is a scene in the novel which involves practically the entire  town and comically illustrates the negative side to small town existence.  Then there is Winston, Hannah's loyal and protective dog who adds another  dimension of humor to the novel.<br />Krentz has written a story that is fresh  in tone though her characters remain true to what her readers have come to  associate with her writing. Rafe and Hannah are strongly drawn characters  despite the characteristics Krentz uses to associate them with their  respective families. And Krentz does a magnificent job of creating a story  about Rafe and Hannah instead of falling back, or focusing, on the feud  between the Hartes and the Madisons. Eclipse Bay is a terrific start to  what I hope will be a great trilogy.what I hope will be a great trilogy.	2000-06-27
US	51150291	R1VIFJQZWVC5U	0393957608	923394222	Wuthering Heights: Authoritative Text, Backgrounds, Criticism (Norton Critical Edition)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A timeless story of love	Wuthering Heights is the dramatic tale of an otherworldly love that can find no place in  proper British society. Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff are both children of Nature who revel in their own brand of freedom on the  Moors. Society intervenes in the form of the Lintons who embody all that is  proper and whose allure, in the form of material wealth, is too tempting  for Catherine to resist.<br />This is a novel about trying to strike a  balance. Heathcliff and Catherine find that their love cannot survive in a  world that is dictated by rules and which would have them repress their  passionate natures. Catherine seeks a union with society but can never be  completely happy with Edgar because Heathcliff is her other half, not just  her soulmate. <br />There were moments in this novel where I felt Heathcliff  was unnecessarily cruel, but keeping in mind the ambiguity of his origins,  I also found it impossible not to sympathize with him. I also felt that it  was, perhaps, his inability to let go of Catherine that made it even harder  for them both to forge separate existences for themselves with their  respective Linton spouses. <br />Heathcliff's tenacious resentment does not  limit itself to Edgar and Isabella. Indeed, his bitter resentment of the  Lintons extends to the next generation as they are left to pick up the  pieces of two shattered families and to begin again with the promise of a  far more moderate and circumspect union between the Earnshaws and the  Lintons.	2000-06-24
US	51150291	R1QNS2AC0T1LXX	0373270801	250422993	The Best Man (Those Marrying McBrides!) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1010) (Intimate Moments, 1010)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Beyond friendship	Merry McBride is a beautiful and intelligent veterinarian who has always been able to count on friends and family until the day her friend and fiance, Thomas, runs out on her on their wedding day. Nick Kincaid is the  steady and dependable town sheriff who has loved Merry since high school  and has been best friends with her and Thomas since childhood.  <br />Their  amiable triangle breaks apart when Thomas humiliates Merry in front of the  entire town and leaves Nick in the difficult position of having to comfort  and reassure her. Thomas's betrayal splinters their friendship in so many  ways that it seems irreparable. But repair it Turner does by the story's  end. If their friendship has not been restored completely, it has made  something of a start in that direction. But more importantly, the fracture  makes it possible for Nick to illustrate that he truly is the best man for  our heroine to marry and not to fulfill the role in her wedding to another  man. <br />I think Nick Kincaid is a hero to be admired for his patience and  his unconditional love. I think it is important to stress just how  unconditional and unselfish that love is. Nick is a man of action, not in a  flashy sense but in an understated one. He illustrates his love for Merry  by simply being the friend he has always been to her. Merry is an admirable  heroine in the sense that she is never truly confused about where she  stands with her ex-fiance. Instead, the author does a great job of  emphasizing her gradual awareness of Nick as their friendship develops into  something deeper.	2000-06-24
US	51150291	R172OO4LB57CK4	0393959031	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The incredible strength of one woman	Thomas Hardy's novel makes a heroine out of a simple girl. Tess Durbeyfield, the daughter of a nearly extinct noble line, leads a life of heavy responsibility where her impoverished family is concerned. At the  behest of her parents, she seeks assistance from the D'Urbervilles who are,  supposedly, relatives. This assistance yields disastrous results and Tess  feels compelled to find work as a milkmaid where she meets Angel Clare, the  son of an evangelical pastor, who is gathering experience in order to  become a farmer.<br />Hardy does a splendid job of illustrating Tess's  strength as she goes from innocent girl to pure woman. Though she is not as  educated as Angel, in terms of theory, her experience with Alec Stokes  D'Urberville has given her a deeper knowledge of life and acceptance.  Ironically, it is this experience which captivates and, predictably enough,  repulses Angel.<br />Hardy's narrative is a powerful one in this particular  tale. It is clear that this is Tess's story and we, as readers, witness her  painful journey. Through his subtle and understated use of irony, we come  to realize the hypocrisy of Angel and wonder about the diabolical nature of  Alec.<br />What Hardy does emphasize in this novel is the unwavering hand of  Justice which allows the novel to come to a bittersweet end and lets no one  escape its strong, yet objective, sense of judgement.	2000-06-23
US	51150291	RG4F6GTNS1TTO	0425167313	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great incorporation of an old classic	March Murray comes home from California only to come face to face with Hollis, her first love. With her is her daughter who finds a somewhat comforting companion in her cousin, Hank. This meeting between March and  Hollis sets off a chain of events which rekindles an intense, yet  destructive, passion that to consume them. <br />Anyone who has read the  original will see the parallel. The story of Heathcliff and Catherine  Earnshaw has been immortalized over the years and Hoffman has incorporated  that love story in a fundamental way. Hoffman does a fantastic job of  integrating a contemporary what-if spin on Bronte's novel, Wuthering  Heights. I read this book on the recommendation of a professor after  reading Emily Bronte's novel but it sparked my interest in the selections  Oprah does choose for her Book Club. As a book, on its own, this novel can  stand, but foreknowledge of the parallel premise between it and Bronte's  novel is what makes Here on Earth a moving story.	2000-06-23
US	51150291	R3VY5KNYCXGLI5	0553213342	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Opposite Extremes	In what used to be Jane Austen's epistilary novel, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood struggle with their extreme, and conflicting, personalities in a male-dominated society where they must come to terms with the death of  their father, their subsequent near-impoverished state, and disappointments  of the heart.<br />This is the second Austen novel I have read and I must  confess to being charmed by the bond between the sisters despite their  utter lack of understanding when it came to each other. Both Elinor and  Marianne love each other and try to understand one another. Elinor tries to  protect Marianne by attempting to counsel her to curb her sensibility while  Marianne advocates her own romantic outlook to her older sister. What each  of them fails to realize, until the novel's end, is that without the  presence of the other in times of trouble, they would not have a leg to  stand on.<br />Both Elinor and Marianne take each other for granted and it is  to the reader's gratification that Elinor and Marianne do find  satisfactory, and happy, endings when they each adopt a little of the  other's philosophical outlook.	2000-06-20
US	51150291	R2QRNEG8PVJFM5	0679601686	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Modern Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	First Impressions Indeed	Let me tell you about my first impression of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. At the age of thirteen, it was one of the most amazing love stories I had ever read. Five years later, it became one of the most  wittily crafted stories I had ever read. By the time I was twenty-one, it  was the finest work of literature I had ever experienced.<br />Elizabeth  Bennet is a byproduct of genteel poverty. The second daughter of five, she  possesses the most sense, tact, poise, and sound judgement of the family in  general. On the other hand, she is also irreverent, daring, and  judgemental. She stretches the envelope of what might be construed as  &quot;polite&quot; society. She also acknowledges the limitations of her  gender even as she subtly tries to defy them.<br />As a part of the landed  gentry, Mr. Darcy is the embodiment of all that is dignified and honored.  He is a gentleman who was born to privilege and money. His kind make up the  &quot;polite society&quot; Elizabeth dares to flout. His pride, his  disdain, and his arrogance make him unappealing to the people of Longbourn,  as well as the community surrounding it. It is his interference with the  relationship between his friend and her beloved sister, however, which is a  personal affront to Elizabeth.<br />It is fortuitous that Austen retitled her  book because First Impressions does not begin to touch upon the  complexities that Pride and Prejudice, as a title, connotes. In Darcy and  Elizabeth, Austen has drawn two very complex characters who, on the one  hand, seem simply drawn and characterized, but on the other, are so much  more than they seem. It would be easy to say that Darcy is arrogant and  Elizabeth is willful. The truth is, looking beyond my own first impression,  as a reader, Austen has deceptively crafted two characters whose thoughts  and actions make it clear that they aptly straddle both of the title  characteristics.	2000-06-20
US	51150291	R37EPZLBB7Q7UH	0373291086	448056606	The Marrying Man	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An Exceptional Story	The last thing Ashby Morgan wants is another wife. After having had two of them, he's content to raise his daughter and to mine his land. But his uncle, having taken it upon himself to find him a wife, demands that he go  to meet this paragon of virtue at the train station.<br />Though she  advertised herself as a paragon of virtue, Sarah Jane knows that she falls  quite short of the mark. But she's desperate to leave the school her  parents have put her into. In order to fit the bill, she polishes her image  in the letter she sends to Ashby Morgan and, having been found acceptible,  meets him at the train station.<br />From the moment they meet, the attraction  between these two is explosive. Sarah Jane's naivete yields a frankness  that throws our hero out of his complacency and obliterates his  determination to remain unmarried.<br />The Marrying Man is a charming and  heartwarming story about a woman who is seeking the acceptance of her  willful spirit. She finds this acceptance in Ash Morgan and a kindred  spirit in his daughter, Adelaide. Criswell does a wonderful job of  offsetting Sarah Jane's willfullness with her vulnerability without  weakening her character. In addition, the bond that she comes to share with  her stepdaughter is memorable and endearing. Ash is a hero to be admired  for his ability to sense the truth behind Sarah Jane's character, almost  immediately, and to appreciate that her true nature, rather than her false  advertising, is what makes her the perfect woman to be the love of his life  and not just a mother to his daughter.	2000-06-13
US	51150291	R3BKBJ9JTBOF70	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The moving journey of one woman	While volunteering at a public library during the summer, I noticed that this novel was in constant circulation. Out of interest, I read the blurb and was intrigued. I was determined to read it. Taking a leap of faith, I  purchased it at the nearest retail store and delved in.<br />I, unexpectedly,  found myself emotionally affected by Dolores and her painful journey of  self-discovery. The blurb, which intrigues, does not convey the true weight  of this story and the emotion it evokes as well as provokes.<br />Watching  Dolores attempt to come to terms with herself time and time again is an  experience that is truly unforgettable. Lamb crafts the character of  Dolores in a way that, I confess, is unexpected, especially by a male  writer. And yet, he successfully, and creditably, gives his heroine a voice  that defies any reader to remain indifferenct. <br />I have yet to pick up his  second novel, I Know This Much Is True, but I look forward to appreciating  Wally Lamb's skillfull ability to craft a painfully real and incredibly  moving story.	2000-06-13
US	51150291	R30BOIFUB22VWV	0373270798	754874722	The Wildes of Wyoming -- Ace (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1009) (Intimate Moments, 1009)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Surprising, yet satisfying, conclusion.	This last installment of Ruth Langan's trilogy, The Wildes of Wyoming, is fulfilling and just a bit surprising in terms of plot. It is the characters, however, who drive this plot towards an excellent finish.<br />Ace  Wilde comes into contact with Ally Brady in Clancy's where she is  systematically hustling the cowboys out of their money by feigning  ignorance when it comes to pool. By the night's end, she cons our  unvanquished hero, a qualified target in her eyes, out of a thousand  dollars. Ace is left drunk, humiliated, and enraged. But of course Ally is  not the mercenary she seems to be. She needs the money to help her  grandfather whom she loves dearly and has finally come home to.<br />Danger  threatens the Bradys as well as the Wildes and they successfully deal with  this unexpected, and overarching, dilemma. In the meantime, Ace and Ally  have their hands filled trying to outhustle each other into a happy ending  and coming to terms with the love they are coming to share. <br />I really  enjoyed getting to know both Ace and Ally. I had been looking forward to  Ace's story from the start and was not disappointed. <br />The Wildes of  Wyoming is a trilogy that is memorable and enjoyable. The bond between the  brothers and how they make the most of their father's legacy is wonderful  to read about. I have to admit that Hazard is my favorite of the three  brothers. I really found myself admiring and respecting Ace as a hero  because his dependability manifests itself when he puts his heart on the  line and falls in love with Ally.	2000-06-12
US	51150291	RB9G3N14CV8ME	0373270690	594083758	The Harder They Fall (Men of the Bar H) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 999)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Harder They Fall	Evan Henderson is the embodiment of all Lissa James has come to despise. Because of her past run-in with the law, she is wary of the the charming assistant D.A. and attempts to put him at a distance as she does with all  his kind.<br />Lissa James is a puzzle that Evan is eager to solve and put  aside. The problem for him is that he is unable to resist the challenge she  presents. His fascination for her develops into first a wary friendship and  eventually a strong commitment. <br />I really enjoyed the latest installment  of Lovelace's Bar-H series because Evan was appealing as a hero and Lissa,  with her troublesome yet generous heart, is impossible to not admire given  all the heartache she has endured.<br />I, too, found the resolution  concerning her family ties to be too easy. Being accustomed to some form of  sinister threat in the Bar-H books, I found the development of the plot to  be something of a surprise. <br />After enjoying Evan and Lissa's story, I am  looking forward to Jake's.	2000-06-05
US	51150291	R1KBOTQULRD6FQ	0373834454	619745516	The Convenient Marriage	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Unexpected Turnaround	In order to help her oldest sister and her sister's suitor, Horatia Winwood proposes a marriage of convenience to Marcus, Earl of Rule, which sets in motion a novel that was intermittently excellent and  frustrating.<br />This is a book that vacillates in the amount of interest it  elicits. I was prepared to admire Horatia without question because of her  nerve when it came to propositioning the Earl of Rule. Once this marriage  was set in motion, however, I literally felt my interest dwindle.<br />I found  myself on the brink of disliking the heroine who had initially shown so  much promise, with her daring and her stutter, because she conducted  herself so senselessly during her marriage. <br />But this novel presents a  tremendous turnaround as the narrative, which passively described their  marriage from a distance, begins to localize itself and focus again on  Horry and Marcus. This shift in narrative style allows the reader to  reassociate themselves with these characters who, along with an pleasantly  active plot, drive the story successfully onwards toward a satisfactory  ending.	2000-06-01
US	51150291	R90FAVRGRKR7C	0373270674	993316363	Wildes Of Wyoming -- Hazard (The Wildes of Wyoming) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Wildes of Wyoming-Hazard	When Hazard Wilde's experimental herd begins yielding fatal results for unknown reasons, he calls in research specialist, Dr. Erin Ryan, under the advisement of a mutual mentor. He hopes that her objectivity and expertise  will help him discover what is behind the unexplainable deaths that are  occurring. Surprisingly enough, it is her heart that engages itself with  this project and with it, her tenacity when it comes to finding out the  cause. <br />I found Hazard, the middle brother, to be admirable, determined,  and dedicated. He has a close affinity with the land and I really enjoyed  looking at the Double W through his eyes because of his appreciation for  what his father originally wanted for him and his brothers. It's what he  struggles to hang on to and improve upon.<br />Erin Ryan was endearing as a  heroine because of her naivete which was at such odds with her advanced  mind. I've read of heroines who have been incredibly smart but have also  been, as a result, incredibly insecure or hypersensitive about it as well.  I think that Erin's naivete was refreshing. Her lack of consuming  bitterness towards the childhood that shaped her was engaging as well.  <br />Langan has drawn two wonderfully isolated characters towards each other  with skill, compassion, and heart. It's a wonderful story that conveys the  sense that, even for people who are socially withdrawn, there is someone  who can understand you and whom you can come to understand in turn.	2000-06-01
US	51150291	R30HHUA9WN54EJ	0373243189	406610715	Surprise Partners (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1318)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A love story between two friends	The most commendable element of this story was the friendship between the hero and the heroine. What begins as a mild sort of meeting of minds broadens into a good friendship between Scott and Lydia. <br />Two  career-driven people, Scott and Lydia are always under attack by their  respectively good-intentioned sisters who want nothing more than to see  them happily settled down. As well-intentioned as the two were, they really  began to irritate a bit as meddlesome siblings do. In that respect, they  were effective, yet a hindrance to the story.<br />The main attraction is the  expansion of Scott and Lydia's friendship which only grows stronger with  their developing relationship. I really liked the idea of a heroine who was  determined to see her dreams through rather than push them aside. But most  importantly, I enjoyed how Wilkins characterized Scott as a man who was  equally career-driven yet willing to compromise because he saw something  incredibly special in the strength of Lydia's mind and character.	2000-05-18
US	51150291	R3CYA5VHCOHKK	0373762798	543640154	A Cowboy's Secret (Code Of The West) (Silhouette Desire, No 1279)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Unexpected Surprise	What was unexpected about this story was not that it was excellent. It was, in fact, wonderfully written. What was unexpected about J.D.'s story was his secret depending on your perspective and I think that this is why  McAllister's story about J.D. and Lydia deserved a five star rating.<br />What  could have been cliched was minimalized in this story.The surprise was  drawn out and developed in such a way that it encompassed both characters.  The author succeeds in making this story about J.D. and Lydia rather than  expanding it into something that has been done and redone in story  telling.<br />I enjoyed the depth of character when it came to J.D. He is  someone that it is impossible not to sympathize with. He is a man who has a  misguided sense of his own worth and has to hide behind a rough exterior in  order to feign his disregard for the opinion of others. The truth is that  J.D. truly is worthy but that he needs Lydia, a woman who can overcome her  childhood idolization of him and still love the man that is before her  rather than the ideal she created as a girl. <br />Lydia, a smart lawyer and  an even smarter woman, has a hard time figuring out what makes J.D. tick.  His recalcitrance, rather than frustrating the reader as much as it did the  heroine, helped us to sympathize with her instead and realize that even a  woman as smart as Lydia Cochrane cannot figure out the secret which J.D.  has become an expert at never alluding to or revealing.<br />I think Anne  McAllister has drawn two wonderful characters in A Cowboy's Secret. I loved  the depth of the character development, particularly on the part of J.D. as  he, and those who love him, come to terms with the secret he kept for so  many years.	2000-04-13
US	51150291	RGCUKVO7ETTSD	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Witness In Death can stand on its own	I really enjoyed Robb's most recent installment of the In Death series. It had a wonderful plot that was reminiscent of Dame Agatha's Hercule Poirot mysteries and involved much in the way of deduction in order to figure out  who the murderer was. <br />The character development was spectacular. It was  interesting to witness Eve bringing that extra something to her marriage  with Roarke rather than the other way around. I enjoyed the development in  relationship between Peabody and McNab and the insight into Charles  Monroe's character. I really appreciated the depth of Nadine's concern with  this particular case as well. Robb has not failed to write a fantastic  story here.<br />But clearly this is quite a tribute to Dame Agatha Christie's  work as well and I think that Robb was overly zealous in her attempt to  adapt the other author's style into her work. I was slightly disappointed  with the blatant revelation of the solution to a particular Chrstie  mystery.  Other than a slight problem with the extent to which Roarke and  McNab partook in a newfound brotherhood as well as the Christie dilemma, I  really enjoyed Witness because as a tribute it was well done. That aside,  it could have stood extremely well on its own. I look forward to the next  installment.	2000-04-11
US	51150291	R3QLBR2XD1P5AY	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Witness can stand on its own.	I really enjoyed Witness In Death as a story. My enjoyment of this story is independent of the homage that is clearly paid to Dame Agatha Christie. I loved revisiting Roarke, Eve, Peabody, McNab, Nadine, and even Charles. I  felt that Robb developed these characters and their respective  relationships very well and I was not disappointed on that score.<br />The  reason for my four star rating is because of two things I found disturbing  in this story. First of all, Robb's liberal use of Dame Agatha's work was  interesting and intriguing. It incited me to check out more of Christie's  work. However, I felt that the blatant revelation of the ending to Murder  On The Orient Express to be a liberty taken that is unjustifiable. For  readers who have not experienced Christie's mysteries before and attained  an interest due to this book, Murder On The Orient Express, however  interesting it seemed initially, dimmed considerably because Robb revealed  the murderer of this particular story. This is not only disturbing to me  because of my growing interest in Dame Agatha's work but also because it  seems to be unfair to the author of Murder On The Orient Express whose hard  work seems belittled by Robb's simplistic explanation of the truth behind  its murder. <br />In addition to this, I found it slightly irritating that  Roarke forged the signature of a judge, however high-tech his equipment,  and revealed his shadier side to McNab much less enfolded him in it. For  Peabody who has slowly been coming to this conclusion, it seems a little  more justified that she would use deductive reasoning to see more deeply  into Roarke's character. I would have expected Roarke to have let McNab  come to the same realization through his own deductive reasoning rather  than putting him into the questionable position of having to make a choice  in accepting this darker side of Roarke and his actions in relation to it.  <br />Overall, though my words seem to contradict my rating, I found Witness  to be a good romantic suspense on its own and I was not disappointed by  Robb's plot or her characters' development within the novel.	2000-04-11
US	51150291	R21L5M3NC7DASM	0373079877	598400089	Mistaken Identity (Men of the Bar H) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 987)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Mistaken Identity	Lovelace has crafted an explosive story with well-developed characters with this book. I really enjoyed the chance to get to know and understand Marsh Henderson, a DEA agent, whose personal involvement in this recent case causes him to take an extraordinary risk when he uses the wrong sister  to reel in his true target. <br />Neither Marsh nor Lauren took a backseat to  the other. Both were equally well distributed and developed through the  story in spite of, or rather because, the story was fast-paced and  plot-driven.<br />Under the pressure of time, one would never really suppose  that the two would not only make themselves understandable to the reader  much less to each other and it is because of this that I think Mistaken  Identity deserves a five star rating because Lovelace manages to craft a  wonderful romantic tale between two characters who are brought together by  their sense of responsibility towards family and justice.	2000-04-11
