US	51167656	R3PWEWRSUDHX3	1561642657	2154215	Ghosts of the Georgia Coast	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Georgia's Ghoulish Coast	According to the author of this book there was a discussion one day among some friends as to why nobody had ever put together a book of ghost stories from the Georgia coast and the islands. After some thought, Mr. Farrant decided that he would take on the task and he began to collect the ghost stories that would eventually form this book.<br /><br />Mr. Farrant has a superb writing style and he relates his stories with a great deal of enthusiasm. It is also obvious that he enjoys his subject and even more importantly that he respects his subject. There is nothing worse that a writer of ghost books who looks down on his subject matter or on those who read their books.  He also does a good job of relating the atmosphere of the Georgia coast, which is quite a feat for a transplanted Yankee like Mr. Farrant.<br /><br />There are several excellent stories to be found in this book. Stories that contain recent eyewitness accounts of haunts that are still in progress make up the majority of the chapters and those are the kinds of stories that make or break a book like this one. Even some of the stories about ghosts that seem to have gone away are of a recent enough nature that the author was able to interview people who had experienced the haunt while it was still active. Accounts like this need to be preserved and the Mr. Farrant has done an excellent job of doing just that.<br /><br />There are unfortunately, a few stories in this book that fall into the category of old legend and folklore and this book would have been much better if the author had decided to leave these stories out. For example, the stories of \\"The Legend of Ebo Landing\\" and \\"An Old St. Simons Ghost Story\\" were interesting but really had no place in this book. Fortunately though, these kinds of stories were few and far between. There are also a few typos in this book, which I hope will be corrected in future editions, and I hope that there are many printings of this excellent book.<br /><br />Don Farrant has put together a fine collection of haunting tales from an area that is woefully underrepresented in this genre of book and he is to be thanked for his efforts. There are a few weak points but not many and the author's ability as a storyteller is on a par with the best in the business. I am eagerly looking forward to future works from Mr. Farrant.on Farrant has put together a fine collection of haunting tales from an area that is woefully underrepresented in this genre of book and he is to be thanked for his efforts. There are a few weak points but not many and the author's ability as a storyteller is on a par with the best in the business. I am eagerly looking forward to future works from Mr. Farrant.	2005-10-13
US	51167656	R2MAZRFO5VPEJJ	0937552461	796304568	Ghosts! Personal Accounts of Modern Mississippi Hauntings	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Ghosts of Ole Miss	The key word in the title of this book is \\"Modern\\" for the haunts described in this book are all of an ongoing nature. This is not to say that some of these hauntings haven't been going on for quite some time because they have been, but these are not old legends that deal with purported events that no living person has witnessed. Each and every story in this book is backed up by eyewitness testimonials and all of these ghosts were still haunting their chosen haunt. In other words, this is what all ghost books should be like.<br /><br />The author of this book is herself the owner of a haunted building and is one of those people who never believed in ghosts until she and her husband bought the building in question. Most of the people who appear in this book were just like her and didn't believe until events forced them to change their minds. Many of the witnesses in this book are the sweet little ladies who lead tours through old antebellum homes and are just not the type to make this kind of thing up. On the contrary, I would imagine that they made excuses for the disturbances for a long time before finally having to admit that they might have a ghost on their hands.<br /><br />This author does an excellent job of giving the reader the history of the location and the haunt itself without going into such detail that she looses the reader's interest. Most of each story deals with recent activity and the eyewitness accounts of the activity. She makes a particularly insightful observation in noting that some phenomena such as phantom footsteps and lights that turn off and on by themselves are common to most haunts whereas the popular idea of rattling chains and weary moans are almost never present. Over many years of reading ghost books I've noticed the same thing.<br /><br />The photographs taken by the author's husband add to the eerie feel of the book and the author has a very nice writing style. These stories aren't all that scary but they do give you a feel for the haunted location and it's spooks. This would be a terrific book for planning a nice October ghost tour of Mississippi and with this book in hand I may just do that someday.for the haunted location and it's spooks. This would be a terrific book for planning a nice October ghost tour of Mississippi and with this book in hand I may just do that someday.	2005-10-12
US	51167656	R3POETX6Q9CF56	0974039446	447896798	Fear: A Ghost Hunter's Story	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A Masterpiece	Most books of this type, including the very best of the genre, are for the most part second hand accounts of ghostly encounters. In other words, the author has interviewed people who have had a run in with a ghost and the author then relates the story in book form. On occasion one will run into a book that was written by a person who had been closely involved with the haunt in question but even then the author usually just happened to move into the wrong house. Kriss Stephens on the other hand, actively hunts ghosts and has taken her team to some of the most haunted places in the world. The only other author of ghost books that I have run into who does this is Hans Holzer who is considered by many to be the foremost authority in this field. Dr. Holzer however comes nowhere near Ms. Stephens when it comes to contagious enthusiasm for the subject at hand. While reading this book one can just feel the enthusiasm and excitement bursting off of the page and it is hard not to get caught up in the author's excitement.<br /><br />It turns out that Stephens grew up in a haunted house and it seems that she has been chasing ghosts ever since. Working with several TV shows including MTV's \\"Fear\\" has allowed her the opportunity to travel extensively in search of her elusive prey and has given her access to areas that most people will never see. She seems to be quite fearless in the pursuit of her goal as she wanders around in places that most people, myself included, would fear to tread. In the process she has encountered numerous entities and has even been physically attacked on occasion, including a pair of scratches that are shown in a photograph.<br /><br />The photographs are another thing that makes this book so spectacular. There is page after page of photos taken at the sites being investigated and many show a large number of anomalies that just shouldn't be there. Even the pictures that are quite normal help to add to the ever so creepy atmosphere of this book. I do wish that she had managed to get a shot of Old Green Eyes at Chickamauga however because I have always wondered just what he looks like. But alas, even this author wasn't brave enough to take on this green-eyed monster. I would also be remiss if I didn't mention this book's modern take on the Bell Witch which provided a very refreshing look at the possible modern day activities of this most famous of hauntings.<br /><br />There were only a couple of things that I would like to see change in future editions of this book, the first being a good editing to remove several typos. I would also like to see something along the lines of a cast list because it is sometimes hard to keep up with all of the author's ghost hunting friends. Finally, a small caption under some of the pictures in which the anomaly is hard to see might help out some of us with old and weak eyes. If these minor problems are addressed this book will in my opinion belong in the top five percent of all ghost books ever written.o wish that she had managed to get a shot of Old Green Eyes at Chickamauga however because I have always wondered just what he looks like. But alas, even this author wasn't brave enough to take on this green-eyed monster. I would also be remiss if I didn't mention this book's modern take on the Bell Witch which provided a very refreshing look at the possible modern day activities of this most famous of hauntings. <br /> <br />There were only a couple of things that I would like to see change in future editions of this book, the first being a good editing to remove several typos. I would also like to see something along the lines of a cast list because it is sometimes hard to keep up with all of the author's ghost hunting friends. Finally, a small caption under some of the pictures in which the anomaly is hard to see might help out some of us with old and weak eyes. If these minor problems are addressed this book will in my opinion belong in the top five percent of all ghost books ever written.	2005-10-11
US	51167656	R276YEC0NZ0G3H	0872495981	450355468	Ghosts of the Southern Mountains and Appalachia	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Who Are the They Who Have so Much to Say?	Nancy Roberts could truly be referred to as the Queen Mother of ghost book authors for she was one of the first to publish books on the subject and over the years she has been a very prolific writer. Given her status and also the fact that it was one of her early works that turned me on to this type of book in the first place I find that I have a hard time being critical when it comes to her publications. In this case however, I am afraid that critical I must be.<br /><br />As usual Mrs. Roberts writing style is wonderful and fluid without being wordy or pretentious. This author can frankly tell a story like no other and even though the stories in this book aren't all that good, Mrs. Roberts still managed to keep me riveted. This was quite an accomplishment seeing as how I had already heard almost all of the stories in this book at least once before. She comes quite close in fact to making a silk purse out of a sow's ear. Close, but not quiet.<br /><br />I have learned over the years that Mrs. Roberts tends to produce two distinct types of ghost books. The really good ones are written after the author has traveled to the haunted sites she is writing about and has talked to people who have experienced the haunt first hand. The other types of book that she produces are basically fine examples of folklore or storytelling and nothing more. These are what I refer to as the \\"some say\\" or \\"they say\\" books because most of the stories end with a bit about how \\"They say\\" that on rainy nights you can still hear or see whatever it is the author has just written about. These types of books contain almost no recent eyewitness accounts and are just old legends handed down for generations. There is of course nothing wrong with this type of book except that they should not be sold as ghost books but should instead be marketed as folklore.<br /><br />There are a few very good stories in this book, but they are a distinct minority. The story about the modern day antics of the Bell Witch is an excellent story that includes all kinds of recent eyewitness accounts including some accounts of recent happenings from a direct descendent of old John Bell himself. This story is an example of Nancy Roberts at her best and that is the Nancy Roberts that I was looking for in this book. It is not however the Nancy Roberts that I found. I can't say that this was a bad book but I can say that she can do and has done so much better.ell Witch is an excellent story that includes all kinds of recent eyewitness accounts including some accounts of recent happenings from a direct descendent of old John Bell himself. This story is an example of Nancy Roberts at her best and that is the Nancy Roberts that I was looking for in this book. It is not however the Nancy Roberts that I found. I can't say that this was a bad book but I can say that she can do and has done so much better.	2005-10-10
US	51167656	R1D3GIATPRLJT2	0817303782	834149489	13 Tennessee Ghosts and Jeffrey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Jeffrey Visits Tennessee	For a long time I have avoided this series of books because I just didn't understand the Jeffrey part of the titles. I still don't really understand Jeffrey but I can now see why this series is so popular.<br /><br />Kathryn Windham is an excellent storyteller and I very much enjoyed most of the stories in this book. This book contains accounts from all over the Volunteer State so if you happen to be a native of Tennessee you will probably be familiar with at least a few of these ghosts. Being a long time fan of ghost books, many of the stories that the author relates in this book are indeed very familiar to me but considering the original date of publication this is probably one of the earliest books to relate these tales.<br /><br />Many of the stories included contain chilling accounts of eerie experiences that the author collected from the people who actually experienced an encounter with the ghost in question. One of these witnesses is actually related to me in a distant sort of way and this eyewitness documentation is always a great plus for a book of this nature. On the other hand, the author couldn't resist including a few old legends that can't be documented and have very little to do with ghosts in the first place. She also couldn't seem to resist using one chapter that she had already published in another book which is an irritating form of double-dipping that causes the reader to pay for the same story twice.<br /><br />Still, most of the stories were quite interesting and I very much enjoyed the author's storytelling skill. If the author had replaced a couple of the old legends with some stories of modern haunts this would have been a superb ghost book. Even with some disappointing stories this is a very good book and I may just have to be on the lookout for the other books in the Jeffrey series.	2005-10-09
US	51167656	R3E660JEZVMCSF	1894877160	514678772	Ghost Stories of the Civil War	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Confederates in the Attic-Literally	The American Civil War has long been the source of many ghostly legends and with all of the death and suffering brought about by the war it is no wonder that it left behind a few specters. The South in particular is heavily populated with Confederate ghosts and spirits but this ghostly residue is hardly peculiar to the old Confederacy. Gettysburg for example is supposed to be one of the most haunted places in the United States and even the most hard-nosed skeptic has to find it difficult not to feel some kind of aura in that Pennsylvania town.<br /><br />The authors of this book have collected Civil War ghost stories from around the country, including an entire chapter about Gettysburg. Having read other books by this pair of authors I bought this book knowing that most of the stories would be a simple retelling of old legends with no recent eyewitness accounts to bolster the story's believability. I was therefore pleasantly surprised to find that several of these stories do include the much appreciated eyewitness accounts. I found the story of \\"Old Green Eyes\\" at the Chickamauga battlefield to be a particularly interesting entry because first hand accounts of this well known haunting are few and far between.<br /><br />As usual, these authors have a pleasant and enjoyable writing style and they obviously enjoy their own subject matter. They do need to learn however that the term battle casualties includes wounded and missing troops as well as those killed. On several occasions in this book Asfar and Thay vastly over state the deaths in a particular battle because they seem to be counting all reported casualties as deaths. They have also over estimated troop strengths at Gettysburg, especially on the Union side. There are also several small historical errors that they might want to correct in future editions and there is a clear north of Mason-Dixon slant to the book.  The errors aren't major but their presence still hurts the book's credibility.<br /><br />Still, this is a pretty decent ghost book and while it won't send any chills up your spine it would certainly be a good introduction to the ghost lore of the Civil War. Since there are stories in this book from several states east of the Mississippi you might just discover a haunt near you.his is a pretty decent ghost book and while it won't send any chills up your spine it would certainly be a good introduction to the ghost lore of the Civil War. Since there are stories in this book from several states east of the Mississippi you might just discover a haunt near you.	2005-10-08
US	51167656	R22M3RVC0412H0	0762730633	987441105	Spooky South: Tales of Hauntings, Strange Happenings, and Other Local Lore	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wampus Cats, Plat-Eyes and the Hairy Man	When I pick up a book like this one I am normally looking for a book of non-fiction accounts of paranormal experiences. The books that I like most contain stories of ongoing haunts and include eyewitness accounts from people who have experienced the haunt. I often post scathing reviews of books like this one that I buy believing them to be that type of book only to find that the book in question is only a collection of folk stories that generally have no basis in fact. This book however, does not advertise itself as the kind of book I normally read but clearly states on the back cover that it is a book of folklore. That is all I have ever asked.  If it's folklore just say so.<br /><br />Just like any other type of book there are different grades of folklore books and I must say that this one deserves a very high grade. The stories are the type that I grew up hearing and are deeply rooted in the Southern psyche. Many of these tails involve the Devil and the dangers one incurs in dealing with the Prince of Darkness. Most all of the stories involve some type of moral lesson but are also extremely fun to listen to or read. Southern grandparents have been thrilling their grandchildren with these stories for years.<br /><br />In this book you will find many stories that are pure legends like the story of \\"The Fiddler's Dram\\" or the tale about \\"The Red Rag Under the Churn.\\" There are also stories however that deal with the Bell Witch, the Wampus Cat and the Army of the Dead which are all based on the very real experiences of very real people. The Wampus Cat still puts in an occasional appearance around the tunnels that run under the campus of the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.<br /><br />I was particularly fond of the \\"Tailypo\\" story because it closely parallels a story that I was told as a child. In this version an old man cuts the tail off of a strange animal and cooks and eats the tail. That night the creature returns to claim his \\"Tailypo.\\" In the version I grew up with an old woman finds a severed big toe in her potato patch and cooks and eats the toe. That night the toe's owner returns seeking his toe. The end results are the same in both stories and prove that it isn't wise to eat something's \\"Tailypo\\" or someone's big toe.<br /><br />The stories in this book are wonderfully written and are told from the perspective of the original storyteller. This is quite a collection of Southern folklore and the author has obviously done a large amount of research in putting this book together. Best of all, she lets the stories speak for themselves which is virtue not possessed by many folklore books. If you have any interest in folklore I would highly recommend this book and if you grew up in the South I bet that you either heard some of these stories or stories very similar to the ones found in this book. When my grandson gets a little older he may just get to hear about \\"The Witch Bridle\\" while we sit around a campfire on a cool autumn evening.I grew up with an old woman finds a severed big toe in her potato patch and cooks and eats the toe. That night the toe's owner returns seeking his toe. The end results are the same in both stories and prove that it isn't wise to eat something's \\"Tailypo\\" or someone's big toe. <br /> <br />The stories in this book are wonderfully written and are told from the perspective of the original storyteller. This is quite a collection of Southern folklore and the author has obviously done a large amount of research in putting this book together. Best of all, she lets the stories speak for themselves which is virtue not possessed by many folklore books. If you have any interest in folklore I would highly recommend this book and if you grew up in the South I bet that you either heard some of these stories or stories very similar to the ones found in this book. When my grandson gets a little older he may just get to hear about \\"The Witch Bridle\\" while we sit around a campfire on a cool autumn evening.	2005-10-07
US	51167656	R1UAXBXEG48OUE	0425175480	199611431	Ghost Ships: True Stories of Nautical Nightmares, Hauntings, and Disasters	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good Mysteries But Very Few Ghosts	More often than not I avoid books like this because a mariner's definition of a ghost ship and my definition of the same term are usually quite different. To a man of the sea the term ghost ship can mean many things but more often than not it refers to a ship found adrift at sea with no sign of her crew or any clue as to what might have happened to them. To me however, the term ghost ship refers to the spectral appearance of a ship that is known to have been lost years ago. Such is the case with the Flying Dutchman, which is only mentioned once in this book and also the phantom ship that shows up each December off the coast of Nova Scotia. This last case is granted an entire chapter in this book but it is a very short chapter and therein lies the basic problem with this book. There are just simply too few ghosts to be found in a book with this title.<br /><br />There are, to be sure, a few good ghost stories in this book but they form a distinct minority. There are the ghosts of Errol Flynn and John Wayne, a headless pirate and the ever-popular ghosts of the Queen Mary. There is also the story of a German U-boat lieutenant who dies at sea but whose ghost keeps showing up and standing on the bow of the submarine during it's time on the surface. The ghost stories that can be found in this book are pretty good and most contain eyewitness testimony but the ghosts are just too few and far between.<br /><br />A far better title for this book might have been \\"Mysteries of the Sea\\" for that is a term that the author uses over and over again and that is precisely what most of these stories are. Again and again the author relates stories of vessels that simply go missing, leaving no trace at all. There are also stories of cursed ships, the Devil's Sea and a particularly interesting story about a man who wrote a novel about the sinking of the Titanic several years before the ship was even built. All good mystery stories but not a ghost in sight and the story of the typhoon that almost wrecked an American fleet during World War II would barely qualify as even a mystery.<br /><br />This was a very interesting and well-written book and I enjoyed it a great deal. On the other hand, I bought this book expecting ghosts and although there were a few ghosts hovering around there were very few. Even UFO sightings seemed at times to take precedence over the ghosts. Fans of good sea mysteries will love this book as will any old navy veteran, but if you are looking for ghosts on the high seas you will need to look elsewhere.that almost wrecked an American fleet during World War II would barely qualify as even a mystery. <br /> <br />This was a very interesting and well-written book and I enjoyed it a great deal. On the other hand, I bought this book expecting ghosts and although there were a few ghosts hovering around there were very few. Even UFO sightings seemed at times to take precedence over the ghosts. Fans of good sea mysteries will love this book as will any old navy veteran, but if you are looking for ghosts on the high seas you will need to look elsewhere.	2005-10-06
US	51167656	R1GNFHWCQLGGXL	097547460X	417092300	Louisiana's Haunted Plantations	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Haunted Louisiana Travel Guide	If I were a ghost I don't think that I could find any better place to haunt than a spooky old Louisiana plantation house. Apparently there are several spooks who agree with me because according to this very well written book there are ghosts aplenty in these antebellum mansions. Not only are the locations discussed in this book haunted, but they are more often than not haunted by several spirits. No rundown old Victorian houses for these ghosts for they seem to enjoy the finer things in life, or death as the case may be.<br /><br />Jill Pascoe has done an excellent job of putting together a fine collection of ghost stories from the old plantation homes of Louisiana. Her writing style is very pleasing and I found that I zipped right through this book and I finished wanting more. The author hits a very good balance between the history of the haunt and its home and very recent eyewitness accounts which come straight from the witnesses themselves. All too often these books lean so much on history and legend that they have no credibility because no living person who has experienced the ghost is consulted. Sometimes however, the pendulum swings the other way and there are numerous accounts from recent eyewitnesses but the ghost or location is given no historical treatment at all. This of course leaves the reader wondering why this ghost haunts the location in question and who might this spirit have been in life. Pascoe, in her first book has accomplished a balance that many veteran ghost authors haven't achieved after numerous books.<br /><br />It is refreshing indeed to find an author in this genre who takes her work as seriously as this one does. She does not treat this like it is a college literature folklore assignment but instead seems to be very much in tune with her subject. She even has some experiences of her own while visiting the sites she writes about. It adds so much extra flavor to this type of book when the author actually visits the sites they are describing but all to few make this effort. On top of all this, she has taken the time to include the contact information for the sites discussed, including web sites. Since many of these plantations offer overnight accommodations, she has even made the effort to list the most frequent disturbances in each available room so you can decide whether you want to feel something snuggling up to you during the night or would rather just see an one armed specter. This is the perfect book for those who like to visit and stay in haunted houses. I am one of those people but unfortunately my wife is not.<br /><br />The only drawback I found was the author's all too detailed description of the architecture and furnishing of the homes. I suppose this is to be expected from a museum curator but it left me a little weary at times. Other than this one little flaw I would have to say that this is one of the better ghost books I have ever read and if you are planning a trip to Louisiana this book is a must.ribing but all to few make this effort. On top of all this, she has taken the time to include the contact information for the sites discussed, including web sites. Since many of these plantations offer overnight accommodations, she has even made the effort to list the most frequent disturbances in each available room so you can decide whether you want to feel something snuggling up to you during the night or would rather just see an one armed specter. This is the perfect book for those who like to visit and stay in haunted houses. I am one of those people but unfortunately my wife is not. <br /> <br />The only drawback I found was the author's all too detailed description of the architecture and furnishing of the homes. I suppose this is to be expected from a museum curator but it left me a little weary at times. Other than this one little flaw I would have to say that this is one of the better ghost books I have ever read and if you are planning a trip to Louisiana this book is a must.	2005-10-05
US	51167656	RH2IWO722BQQP	1890690082	448912313	Ghosts	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Superb Book by a Superb Author	Be warned before you buy this book that less than half of the stories included are what the author calls \\"True Stories.\\" The rest of the book is made up of fictional ghost stories from the pen of this talented author with the exception of one story from Jamie Cherundolo who is an up and coming spinner of tales. I would like to say at the very beginning of this review that Ms. Cherundolo's story was quite good and I think that she can go far as a writer. I also appreciate the thoughtfulness that Mr. Okonowicz has shown by showcasing this young lady's work.<br /><br />The question that really must be asked about this book is whether it is appropriate to mix \\"True Stories\\" and fictional ghost tales in the same publication. It is an old adage in broadcasting that the people who read the news should never do commercials because doing so hurts their credibility. I think that the same rule might well apply to this situation and I would hope that this is not the practice in all of this author's books. The fictional stories are excellent and spine chilling but the reader is left to wonder just how much fiction might have found its way into the non-fiction section.<br /><br />As for the real ghost stories found at the front of this book, they were superb. The first story in particular was totally engrossing and the author had included everything that is key in the making of a good ghost book. The basic history of the haunting was covered, as was the history of the location, but not in so much detail that the reader might become bored. Also, the haunts were of a recent nature and involved eyewitness testimony and plenty of it. In fact, Mr. Okonowicz often just got out of the way and let the witness tell most of the story. This is a method that most of the authors in this genre would do well to imitate a little more often. When the author did take over the story he did so in an unobtrusive manner and thus allowed the story to continue it's natural flow. Because of the author's willingness to allow the witnesses to tell of their experiences in their own words there was a much greater depth of feeling in this book than in many others. As a case in point Chapter 5 actually moved me to tears as a lady related the story of her late grandfather's visitations to her home. Ghosts aren't always scary you know.<br /><br />If you like good spooky fiction you will find plenty of it in this book and if you are looking for real ghost stories you will find them here also. The fact that the fiction and non-fiction were mixed together in one book cost it a star but for fans of either type of ghostly tail this book is a winner. Mr. Okonowicz has a very good reputation among ghost fans and I can now attest that his reputation is well deserved.willingness to allow the witnesses to tell of their experiences in their own words there was a much greater depth of feeling in this book than in many others. As a case in point Chapter 5 actually moved me to tears as a lady related the story of her late grandfather's visitations to her home. Ghosts aren't always scary you know.<br /><br />If you like good spooky fiction you will find plenty of it in this book and if you are looking for real ghost stories you will find them here also. The fact that the fiction and non-fiction were mixed together in one book cost it a star but for fans of either type of ghostly tail this book is a winner. Mr. Okonowicz has a very good reputation among ghost fans and I can now attest that his reputation is well deserved.	2005-10-02
US	51167656	R39U0UL6XEUWUQ	0895872587	881857679	Piedmont Phantoms (North Carolina's Haunted Hundred, Volume 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Barefoot Ghosts	Daniel W. Barefoot has taken on the task of writing a three-volume set of ghost stories collected from all parts of North Carolina. Volume 1 deals with the coastal area while volume three takes on the mountains of Western North Carolina. This entry, volume 2, provides a glimpse at the ghostly lore of the Piedmont region. The series as a whole is referred to as the \\"Haunted Hundred\\" because the author has taken one ghost story from each of the state's one hundred counties.<br /><br />There are a few flaws that I found in this book but the obvious respect that the author holds for his subject matter more than make up for any shortcomings. There are very few recent accounts by witnesses to be found in this book and those accounts always add greatly to this type of work. There are some stories with eyewitness accounts, like the chapter that deals with the old capitol building but unfortunately this is the exception rather than the rule. There are also a few stories that have nothing at all to do with ghosts and they really have no business being in a book like this. For example, the chapter concerning the Moravian Stars is nothing more than the story of a huge meteor shower that could be witnessed over much of the United States, and the story about the so called Doppelganger was just a waste of paper.  I guess that some counties don't really have any good ghost stories and that sometimes the author has to reach just a little bit.<br /><br />On the other side of the ledger, the ghost stories that are to be found in this book are generally stories that have not been told in numerous other Carolina ghost books. It is always refreshing to find a book that doesn't spend most of it's time rehashing well worn accounts that one has read time and again. In several chapters the author would mention one of these well worn haunts and then add that there is a very similar but less well-known haunt to be found in County X. This is clearly a man who knows his ghosts. There is also the author's obvious affection for his subject which come through in his writing. This is clearly a subject that is near and dear to the author's heart and his interest in and enjoyment of ghost stories adds a great deal to the feel of this book. If I were not already a great fan of this type of book Barefoot's contagious enthusiasm would probably hook me.<br /><br />In the strictest sense, this is not the best ghost book that I have ever read. It is however, one of the more enjoyable entries in this genre that I have come across. Barefoot's writing style and his love for his topic more than make up for the flaws and I spent a very happy evening with this book. Maybe the next time that I visit the Old North State I will take a drive up Booger Hill or go looking for Dr. Kron's treasure. Or maybe I'll just settle down with another good book by Daniel Barefoot.so the author's obvious affection for his subject which come through in his writing. This is clearly a subject that is near and dear to the author's heart and his interest in and enjoyment of ghost stories adds a great deal to the feel of this book. If I were not already a great fan of this type of book Barefoot's contagious enthusiasm would probably hook me. <br /> <br />In the strictest sense, this is not the best ghost book that I have ever read. It is however, one of the more enjoyable entries in this genre that I have come across. Barefoot's writing style and his love for his topic more than make up for the flaws and I spent a very happy evening with this book. Maybe the next time that I visit the Old North State I will take a drive up Booger Hill or go looking for Dr. Kron's treasure. Or maybe I'll just settle down with another good book by Daniel Barefoot.	2005-10-02
US	51167656	R3BHC5NS2C9TS2	089587122X	764934473	Ghosts of Georgetown	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Georgetown's Ghosts Galore	Over the years I have read a fairly large number of these books of ghost stories and have found that the true art of writing this type of book lies in finding a proper balance for each story included. To produce a book that is informative, chilling and plausible requires not only a talent for writing and a general knowledge of the subject but also a willingness to do a lot of research. Elizabeth Huntsinger shows a good deal of talent for the first two categories but has for the most part missed the boat when it comes to research.<br /><br />Much to the author's credit there are no swamp monsters, UFO stories, or old Indian legends to be found in this book. While stories like those mentioned may be interesting, they have no place in a book of ghost stories. There are also only a couple of really well worn stories here and for the most part the ghosts found in this book will be new finds for even the most faithful reader of ghost lore. Furthermore, the writing style of this author is excellent and very readable and she makes no historical mistakes that I could find.<br /><br />That leaves only the lack of research to lessen the effectiveness of this book. Mrs. Huntsinger has done a good job of researching the history of the haunted site and it's ghost. The problem is that she never took the time to look for and interview people who had experienced the phenomena in question. Recent eyewitness accounts always lend an air of believability to this type of book and that kind of documentation is almost totally absent from this book. A little more digging and a few interviews would have gone a long way toward taking this from an average book to an excellent one.<br /><br />Finally, the author includes directions to the haunted places that she has chronicled. This kind of feature is always helpful to anyone who might want to visit the ghosts in the Georgetown area. The directions are too vague however and when I tried to follow them to the burial place of Alice Flagg I got totally lost. These directions did get me to the general area however and after only one stop to ask for directions I found poor old Alice. Vague or not though the directions are a thoughtful addition and I would like to see more ghost books include this information. I truly appreciate the author's effort in including directions.tally lost. These directions did get me to the general area however and after only one stop to ask for directions I found poor old Alice. Vague or not though the directions are a thoughtful addition and I would like to see more ghost books include this information. I truly appreciate the author's effort in including directions.	2005-10-01
US	51167656	R1HD4O3ZXRQ1MM	0939631512	6415295	More Ghosts of Gettysburg: Spirits, Apparitions and Haunted Places of the Battlefield	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Haunted Ground	Since my first trip to Gettysburg I have always been drawn back to that hallowed ground. There is indeed a spirit about the place and whether it is ghostly spirits, awe born of the sacrifices made there or a combination of the two, Gettysburg is a mystical place.<br /><br />Mark Nesbitt is a former Park Service employee who was stationed at Gettysburg and had several odd experiences during his tenure. His experiences, along with those of his fellow Park employees convinced the Ohio native that Gettysburg was a very haunted place. With that in mind, Nesbitt started to collect ghost stories and his collection soon led to this book and it's predecessor. There seems to be no lack of material to be found in this place where so many died such horrible deaths in July of 1863.<br /><br />Mr. Nesbitt does an excellent job of providing his readers with eyewitness accounts, the single most important facet of a book like this. All of the accounts given are backed up by at least one other person's experiences and all of the accounts are of a recent nature. He also hits a good balance between exploring the history and possible origin of the haunt and telling the story of the people who have recently experienced the ghost. There are no stories found in this book that contain pages of history and then one little paragraph about the ghost, which is a flaw found in so many books of this type. This is a pitfall that I'm sure that Mr. Nesbitt had to work hard to avoid because it would have been very easy for him to ramble on about the battle itself for pages and pages. I say this because the author appears to be a student of the battle who definitely knows his stuff.<br /><br />There are unfortunately a few negative aspects that I found in this book but they weren't all that distracting. For one thing, Mr. Nesbitt tends to wander off all too often into the realm of philosophy, which is somewhat understandable in a book like this. Nesbitt however gets carried away on occasion and just about looses his focus. He also gets a little wordy at times and it seems as if he may be trying to impress academic types with his big words and flowery sentences. If this is the case he comes off as trying just a little too hard.<br /><br />For the most part though the stories found in this book are excellent and have been chosen wisely. I must admit that I am a little skeptical about his psychic friend's trip to the Triangular Field and I think that Nesbitt was reaching a little when he connected the psychic's back pain to General Reynolds' mortal wound. This was about the only chapter though that I could find any fault with and I particularly enjoyed the story about the picture of General Stuart that kept being mysteriously smashed in the Carlisle Barracks. A father-in-law never forgets!just about looses his focus. He also gets a little wordy at times and it seems as if he may be trying to impress academic types with his big words and flowery sentences. If this is the case he comes off as trying just a little too hard.  <br /> <br />For the most part though the stories found in this book are excellent and have been chosen wisely. I must admit that I am a little skeptical about his psychic friend's trip to the Triangular Field and I think that Nesbitt was reaching a little when he connected the psychic's back pain to General Reynolds' mortal wound. This was about the only chapter though that I could find any fault with and I particularly enjoyed the story about the picture of General Stuart that kept being mysteriously smashed in the Carlisle Barracks. A father-in-law never forgets!	2005-10-01
US	51167656	R3MHOZEV3K4VFH	0060535172	603092504	Monet Talks (Den of Antiquity)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mama Mozella MIA	When it comes to this type of warm fuzzy mystery it is no surprise when the mystery itself is distinctly a background player. That in and of itself is not a problem because the characters are usually such that their antics make up for the lack of plot and a deep engrossing mystery. The books in this series usually follow this formula pretty closely and Mrs. Myers has created a wonderful cast that is normally able to more than make up for the sometimes-weak plot. As entertaining and fun as these characters are however, they were not able to completely make up for the almost non-existent plot in this book.<br /><br />The whole thing starts out when Charleston antiques dealer Abigail Washburn pays the unbelievable sum of ten-thousand dollars at an auction for a birdcage that is built to look like the Taj Mahal. The cage comes complete with a talking mynah bird named Monet which quickly begins to charm Abby's customers with it's chatter. Then the disappearances begin as first Monet, and then Abby's mother, Abby's husband, her shop assistant and even her cat all vanish. Abby is of course shell-shocked and begins with the help of her friends the Rob-Bobs, to look for clues. Up to this point I was sure that this was going to be one of the better entries in this series, but it is at this point that the mystery fizzles.<br /><br />Although Abby isn't quiet sure what happened to her husband and her assistant she is pretty sure that her mother and Monet have been kidnapped and here arises the main problem with this book. Instead of being completely out of her head with worry, Abby embarks on a leisurely search for any clues that might lead her to her mother's kidnapper. The adventures she has while making this search are hilarious and the people she meets along the way are all interesting and sometimes just downright odd but I found that I was often more worried about what had happened to Mozella than her daughter was. Abby's lack of concern was driven home again and again as she stopped to eat at almost every restaurant in Charleston. Granted, some of her eating stops were necessary to her investigation but by the time it was all said and done it seemed as if Abby was grazing rather than eating.<br /><br />Fortunately, the previously developed characters along with the ones created for this story helped to save this book from being a total loss. There isn't much of a mystery and I would definitely not recommend that someone start reading this series with this book. Fans of this series will however enjoy the continuing adventures of Abby, Mozella, CJ, the Rob-Bobs and the whole crew. Charleston may never be the same again.n as she stopped to eat at almost every restaurant in Charleston. Granted, some of her eating stops were necessary to her investigation but by the time it was all said and done it seemed as if Abby was grazing rather than eating. <br /> <br />Fortunately, the previously developed characters along with the ones created for this story helped to save this book from being a total loss. There isn't much of a mystery and I would definitely not recommend that someone start reading this series with this book. Fans of this series will however enjoy the continuing adventures of Abby, Mozella, CJ, the Rob-Bobs and the whole crew. Charleston may never be the same again.	2005-09-28
US	51167656	R2CF8GT3RTY3Z5	0451211715	930085707	Dying to Retire (Murder She Wrote, No. 21)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Chomp, Chomp, Chomp Went the Gator	Portia Shelby, a former resident of Cabot Cove has been found dead on the beach near her retirement home in Florida and the Metzger's, Seth and Jessica have all flown down for the funeral. Seth had treated Portia for years for a heart condition so her apparent heart attack was no big surprise. The Maine contingent was surprised however to find that the mild and unassuming Portia that they knew in Maine had become something of a tiger in Florida. A tiger that had been causing no end of trouble for powerful real estate developer DeWitt Wainscott who was known to be vicious in silencing his opponents.<br /><br />Despite the Wainscott connection everyone assumes that Portia's death was by natural causes. Portia was however a fan of herbal medications and Seth who hates herbal cures decides to snoop around in the deceased's pillboxes. To his surprise he discovers diet pills in there and given Portia's heart problem, diet pills could be deadly. Sure that Portia would know better than to take diet pills, Jessica's suspicions are aroused and the snooping begins.<br /><br />The Florida setting allows the author to run wild with the introduction of new and colorful characters and he does so with a vengeance. There is Monica Kotansky, a man hungry retiree who was involved with Portia's husband before he married Portia and the senior rumor mill still has them together. While the husband is grieving however she turns her attention elsewhere and Seth falls into her net with hilarious results. There is Tony Colombo, a pizza parlor owner in the village who some feel sure is a mobster and even Jessica is sure that he is not really a restaurant owner. But most of all there is Sam Lewis who drives a big pink Cadillac even though he can barely see over the steering wheel. It is Sam who is sure that Mr. Colombo is a mob hit man and that DeWitt Wainscott had taken out a contract on Portia. Determined to prove his point, Sam takes his big pink car and starts to tail Colombo with predictable and entertaining results.<br /><br />The mystery here is a little deeper than those found in some of the books in this series. The first question that must be answered is whether Portia was murdered at all, and once that question is answered by the autopsy the clues start to point in all sorts of odd directions. As Jessica tries to find the correct path in a maze of conflicting information she also has to contend with an angry alligator, a runaway dumpster and one of Seth's old classmates who has moved to Key West, grown a ponytail and painted his house purple. Needless to say, Seth is flabbergasted by his old friend's behavior. Of course, Seth although lovable, is easily flabbergasted.<br /><br />Despite Seth's little fits, the disgruntled gator and more key lime pie than you can shake a stick at, Jessica finally begins to fit the puzzle together. Of course when you start one of these books you do so knowing that Jessica will figure it all out in the end, so the question is really one of how much fun the reader will have solving the case with her. That being the case, you should fear not for this book is more fun than a barrel of monkeys and even includes a visit to Papa Hemingway's home in Key West. I found this entry in the \\"Murder She Wrote\\" series to be one of the most entertaining and enjoyable so far.ictable and entertaining results. <br /> <br />The mystery here is a little deeper than those found in some of the books in this series. The first question that must be answered is whether Portia was murdered at all, and once that question is answered by the autopsy the clues start to point in all sorts of odd directions. As Jessica tries to find the correct path in a maze of conflicting information she also has to contend with an angry alligator, a runaway dumpster and one of Seth's old classmates who has moved to Key West, grown a ponytail and painted his house purple. Needless to say, Seth is flabbergasted by his old friend's behavior. Of course, Seth although lovable, is easily flabbergasted. <br /> <br />Despite Seth's little fits, the disgruntled gator and more key lime pie than you can shake a stick at, Jessica finally begins to fit the puzzle together. Of course when you start one of these books you do so knowing that Jessica will figure it all out in the end, so the question is really one of how much fun the reader will have solving the case with her. That being the case, you should fear not for this book is more fun than a barrel of monkeys and even includes a visit to Papa Hemingway's home in Key West. I found this entry in the \\"Murder She Wrote\\" series to be one of the most entertaining and enjoyable so far.	2005-09-25
US	51167656	R1L4XDRK4W3N8T	0804111626	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sex, Drugs and Disco	In the second book of this delightful series Agatha has turned her romantic attentions away from her next door neighbor James Lacey and toward Paul Bladen, the new vet in Carsely. Unfortunately for Agatha, many of the other ladies in town have done the same and it appears that there could be a free for all until the vet turns up dead. The police rule it an accident but Agatha isn't convinced and neither is James Lacey it turns out. In fact, now that Agatha doesn't appear to be chasing after him anymore Lacey is quite comfortable hanging around with her and the two are soon hot on the trail of what might well be an imaginary killer.<br /><br />As it turns out, several of Bladen's lady friends were no longer his friends at all by the time of his death and the list of suspects is therefore rather long. Then, at a meeting of the Carsely Ladies Society one of the suspects who has had far too much of the spiked apple cider announces loudly to Agatha that she will tell her everything about the \\"Vicious Vet\\" the next morning. The next morning the suspect list is reduced by one as Agatha finds her informant dead. Again Agatha and James are left to wonder if this death is natural or murder.<br /><br />In this series entry the author introduces several new characters into the Carsely landscape, most of who are suspects in the vet's death. Back from the first book are Agatha's policeman friend Bill Wong, her cleaning lady Doris Simpson, Mrs. Bloxby who always seems to bring out the best in Agatha and of course James Lacey. The reader will also in this book get an explanation of Lacey's phobia like fear of aggressive females. This being one of Lacey's main character traits and the trait that most frustrates Agatha it is good to finally understand what is going on.<br /><br />I was quite fond of the first entry in this series but I liked this book even more. The first book in any series always bogs down just a tad in the author's effort to define the characters and the series' setting. That having been done in the first book, this entry had a much better flow and was in fact a real page-turner. I found this to be one of those books that kept me up far into the night as I read on to see what would happen next. The mystery itself does occasionally take a back set to the characters but that is a common trait in these type of warm fuzzy mysteries and when the characters are as enjoyable as the ones in this book this trait is indeed a blessing and not a flaw.<br /><br />Was the death of the \\"Vicious Vet\\" an accident? Did one of his lady friends simply die of complications from her diabetes with no foul play involved? Or is there a wild murderer loose Cotswolds? There is only one way to find out and I highly recommend that you do so.tting. That having been done in the first book, this entry had a much better flow and was in fact a real page-turner. I found this to be one of those books that kept me up far into the night as I read on to see what would happen next. The mystery itself does occasionally take a back set to the characters but that is a common trait in these type of warm fuzzy mysteries and when the characters are as enjoyable as the ones in this book this trait is indeed a blessing and not a flaw.<br /><br />Was the death of the \\"Vicious Vet\\" an accident? Did one of his lady friends simply die of complications from her diabetes with no foul play involved? Or is there a wild murderer loose Cotswolds? There is only one way to find out and I highly recommend that you do so.	2005-09-22
US	51167656	R12ANJ7IC5055C	0515138320	479861944	The Private Life of the Cat Who ...: Tales of Koko and Yum Yum (from the Journals of James Mackintosh Qwilleran)	Books	2	49	50	N	N	A Rare Foul Ball from Mrs. Braun	Being a great fan of Koko and Yum Yum I was absolutely delighted when I saw this book. I figured that this would be a compendium of cute cat stories that were never mentioned in the actual mystery series but alas, I was wrong. Most all of the anecdotes related in this book come directly from the pages of previously published books and what little new material there is, is not very well thought out or written. I really can't imagine that Mrs. Braun actually wrote this book because it is really not up to her talent level.<br /><br />Worse yet, several of the little stories give away the ending of the other books and if I had not already read most of the ones mentioned I would be quite upset. The worst thing about this book is that the idea behind it had so much promise. The lives of these two lovable cats are obviously not completely covered in the series proper for there are times when James Qwilleran, the cat's human companion, is not solving mysteries. A look at what these two felines are up to during these down times would be great fun and with a little effort and imagination this could have been a delightful book. Unfortunately, there appears to have been far to little effort and absolutely no imagination applied to this project and whoever came up with this mess should be ashamed of themselves.<br /><br />The only redeeming qualities of this book are the adorable picture of the two Siamese cats on the back cover and the frequent references to T.S. Eliot's cat Rum Tum Tugger. A little class never hurts.	2005-09-19
US	51167656	RKXOOF83GNFAC	0811702022	665210517	Battle at Bull Run: A History of the First Major Campaign of the Civil War	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Davis, Like the Other Davis, Bashes Beauregard	Mr. Davis has over the years provided Civil War enthusiasts with many fine books dealing with most aspects of the war. He has written books on the politics of the era, biographies of some of the era's leading figures and is the case here, he has written battle histories. This book like the author's other offerings is clearly written and concise, easy to understand and read and most importantly, it is not dull. Many authors offer up books that are just full of good information but reading them is like reading the Biblical book of Leviticus. Heaven only knows just how many well intentioned people have attempted to read the whole Bible but have come to a dead halt upon reaching Leviticus. The same applies to history books which go into such mind numbing detail about every movement of every regiment and company that the reader finds themselves completely lost and frustrated. Davis, with his wonderfully chatty writing style avoids this problem while still giving the reader all of the pertinent details.<br /><br />Davis begins his story with Fort Sumter where the reader meets General P.G.T. Beauregard, the first major player in this story. Beauregard of course becomes the \\"hero of Sumter\\" and goes north to Virginia with a high reputation and an even bigger ego. Davis is not kind to the Creole general in this book and in fact may be just a little too harsh. As the story progresses the reader is also introduced to some of the people who will be major players throughout the war. This view of men like Jackson, Ewell, Early, Sherman, Stuart and Burnside will certainly help the reader understand events shaped by these men later in the war and each of these men are destined to play a major role over the next four years. Davis does an excellent job of hinting at the future of these men and also pointing out little habits or quirks that are going to become important as these men rise in rank and stature.<br /><br />As with any well-written book, Davis builds the suspense as her works his way toward the battle. Actually, more of this book deals with the preparations for the battle than with the battle itself. Beauregard, who had an excellent eye for building defenses chose his ground and fortified it well. If the Yankees had just done what he expected them to do the battle would have been over in a very short time. The much-maligned Irvin McDowell had put together an excellent battle plan and Davis offers a pretty rousing defense of McDowell in this book. Davis clearly shows that had McDowell had a little better support and a little better luck, things might have turned out much differently. Besides being completely new to this type of command, McDowell had to deal with a President who was playing politics with his army and a General in Chief who not only disliked McDowell but was also playing political games. Then there was General Daniel Tyler who almost single-handedly destroyed McDowell's plan in a bid for individual glory and also General Patterson who's sloth and caution allowed Joe Johnston to join Beauregard before Patterson even knew he was gone.<br /><br />Davis does a marvelous job of setting up this battle and then does an even better job of describing the action once it all begins. He has set the whole thing up so well in fact that the narrative of the battle needed very little explanation for everything made perfect sense because of the set up. This situation allowed for the story of the battle to flow about as smoothly in this book as in any book I have ever read.<br /><br />The only real fault I found in this book was the maps. The maps were good but they were a little small which required me to put on my specks and there were too few of them. There are also several typos that should have all been weeded out in this revised edition and the publishers need to correct this problem in any future editions. Still, this is an eminently readable and highly enjoyable account of the first major battle of the Civil War. Well researched,well written, and highly informative, what more could anyone ask?esearched, well written, and highly informative, what more could anyone ask?	2005-09-16
US	51167656	R1J492G5BWJ0LS	0060535148	964837499	Statue of Limitations (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wynnell Crawford Visits the Big House	As the eleventh entry in this series opens our petite heroine Abigail Timberlake Washburn is about to start a new job. No, she is not giving up her antique business but she is going to take on a little side project for one of the matrons of Charleston society. Mrs. Marina Webbfingers has decided to open a bed and breakfast and wants Abby to decorate the rooms. Knowing just how much publicity this project could bring to her antique business, Abby is just thrilled. But for every silver lining there must be a dark cloud and along comes her best friend Wynnell Crawford who has followed Abby and most of her other friends to Charleston. Things aren't going so well for Wynnell and she begs Abby to let her assist with the project. Abby reluctantly agrees but instead Wynnell ends up redesigning the garden space at the B&B to be, and from there all the problems arise.<br /><br />Wynnell finds a three-foot copy of the famous David statue lying in some weeds and places it in a prominent place in the garden. Abby thinks the statue is tacky and tells Wynnell so and the two best friends spend several weeks not speaking to each other. The next thing Abby knows, Wynnell is in jail accused of the murder of Mrs. Webbfingers. It turns out that the deceased and Wynnell had a loud falling out that only got worse when Mrs. Webbfingers called Wynnell a Yankee. When the lady of the house is found bludgeoned to death Wynnell is the obvious suspect and despite their fight Abby sets out to prove that her best friend is innocent.<br /><br />This book is a little less whimsical than some of it's predecessors but it is still great fun. The author even injects herself into the story albeit with a slightly rearranged name. The best thing about this book however is the return of Wynnell Crawford who was missing from the last two books. The crotchety, Yankee hating Wynnell adds so much to these stories that it would be a shame if her character had completely disappeared. Abby's brother Toy also shows up in this story and has a fairly large role although his character could use some more fleshing out. At the end of the book the reader is clearly given the impression that we will be hearing much more from Toy in the future.<br /><br />On the negative side, some of the major players in this series are almost ignored in this story. Abby's husband Greg is a bit player at best and CJ and her Shelby stories only make rare appearances. Worst of all, Abby's mother is not heard from nearly often enough and it is her quirky and unpredictable character that makes this series so much fun. The reader will also have a slight problem keeping the suspects straight for there are at least seven suspects other than Wynnell and many of them have an alias. That makes for a lot of names to keep up with and I found that I was not always up to the task. It was hard enough just trying to keep up with the murder weapon and it's long history. On top of that, everyone seems to be following Abby around to see what she is up to. Greg is following her, the Rob-Bobs are supposed to be keeping track of her and some toothless guy in a pickup truck is following her very closely. It was all just a tad confusing.<br /><br />Still, despite the faults I found this to be a very enjoyable read. While some of the whimsy may be missing there are still plenty of laughs and despite all of the confusion, everything comes together in the end and it all finally makes sense. Let's just keep Abby's mother front and center in the future please.shows up in this story and has a fairly large role although his character could use some more fleshing out. At the end of the book the reader is clearly given the impression that we will be hearing much more from Toy in the future.  <br /> <br />On the negative side, some of the major players in this series are almost ignored in this story. Abby's husband Greg is a bit player at best and CJ and her Shelby stories only make rare appearances. Worst of all, Abby's mother is not heard from nearly often enough and it is her quirky and unpredictable character that makes this series so much fun. The reader will also have a slight problem keeping the suspects straight for there are at least seven suspects other than Wynnell and many of them have an alias. That makes for a lot of names to keep up with and I found that I was not always up to the task. It was hard enough just trying to keep up with the murder weapon and it's long history. On top of that, everyone seems to be following Abby around to see what she is up to. Greg is following her, the Rob-Bobs are supposed to be keeping track of her and some toothless guy in a pickup truck is following her very closely. It was all just a tad confusing. <br /> <br />Still, despite the faults I found this to be a very enjoyable read. While some of the whimsy may be missing there are still plenty of laughs and despite all of the confusion, everything comes together in the end and it all finally makes sense. Let's just keep Abby's mother front and center in the future please.	2005-09-13
US	51167656	R1AOMX4W7EX6X5	0451199987	138754209	Murder, She Wrote: Gin and Daggers	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Murder Most English	Jessica is off to jolly old England for a mystery writer's convention and to spend a few days with her friend Marjorie Ainsworth, the reigning queen of the murder mystery. Marjorie's new book, \\"Gin & Daggers\\" is a runaway smash hit and as soon as Jessica arrives at the grand dame's home she is presented with a personally inscribed copy. Marjorie is getting along in years and her mind seems to come and go but Jessica finds that this book is probably her best ever. It is so good in fact that some people are beginning to question whether Marjorie wrote it at all and even Jessica must admit that the style of writing is not normal.<br /><br />On Jessica's second night with Marjorie the house is filled with guests and the elderly writer seems to be having a ball. Finally though fatigue catches up with her and she goes off to bed. Later that night, Jessica, who is in the room next to her friend hears a noise and goes to check on Marjorie and finds her with a dagger in her chest. The police arrive and find a piece of Jessica's jewelry under Marjorie's bed, momentarily making Jessica the prime suspect. This puts Jessica in a rather dangerous position since the British public considers Marjorie Ainsworth to be a national treasure and they are quite upset.<br /><br />What follows is a typical Jessica Fletcher mystery except that this one is a little more sordid and confusing than most of the others. On the other hand, if you pay close attention to the details you will be able to name the murderer just as quickly as Jessica. This book also introduces Inspector Sutherland although I understand that he had been introduced before but I haven't read that book and therefore can't comment on that odd possibility. Inspector Sutherland, be he a new character or not, is however kind enough in this book to detail the origin of the term red herring which was a bit of information that I was not aware of. That in itself makes this book well worth the effort one gives to reading it.<br /><br />This is by no means the best book in this series but it isn't a bad book either. Some of the characters are rather flat, especially Mort and Seth, and there are a few characters whose very presence is unneeded and distracting, but then again some of the characterizations are simply wonderful. Bumps in the story line are an unfortunate frequent occurrence in these books but the writing is clean and crisp and the mystery itself is enthralling as usual. It is also unfortunate that Jessica comes across as a little small minded at times in this book as she does in several of these books but you just can't help but like her. She is also just a little gullible in this story which makes her all the more likable and human. Give this book a try but do not judge the entire series by this entry.r /> <br />This is by no means the best book in this series but it isn't a bad book either. Some of the characters are rather flat, especially Mort and Seth, and there are a few characters whose very presence is unneeded and distracting, but then again some of the characterizations are simply wonderful. Bumps in the story line are an unfortunate frequent occurrence in these books but the writing is clean and crisp and the mystery itself is enthralling as usual. It is also unfortunate that Jessica comes across as a little small minded at times in this book as she does in several of these books but you just can't help but like her. She is also just a little gullible in this story which makes her all the more likable and human. Give this book a try but do not judge the entire series by this entry.	2005-09-10
US	51167656	R1WSJYV43QQTLI	0804111634	294561434	Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Quiche Me Agatha Darling	As a child Agatha Raisin was taken to the Cotswolds on vacation and fell in love with the area. Ever since that one visit she has made her plans to go back to the Cotswolds to live, and as this book opens she is about to do just that for Agatha was retiring. She had built her public-relations firm into a very successful enterprise and has now sold it and bought a cottage in Carsely where she plans to spend the rest of her days although she begins to wonder if she has made the right decision even before her retirement party begins.<br /><br />As a hard-nosed executive in London, Agatha had made few if any friends but was so busy with her career that she never noticed. Once she settles into her cottage in Carsely she becomes keenly aware that she is lonely and isolated. The people are friendly enough but she can tell there is a distance in their friendliness so she sets out to be fully accepted. Winning the local baking contest she decides will put her well on the road toward acceptance so she enters the quiche category. Unfortunately she has never learned to cook so she makes a trip to London and buys a spinach quiche, disguises it as her own and enters it in the contest. The judge of the contest however has a tendency to award the prize to his favorites and Agatha's entry does not win. Not yet knowing that the judge is a philanderer who always picks the entries of his companions, Agatha storms out leaving her quiche on the table. The next thing that she knows, the judge has eaten some of her quiche at home and has dropped dead. Poisoned quiche is the cause of death.<br /><br />Agatha is a suspect for only a short while because Detective Constable Bill Wong asks her to show him how she made her quiche and is soon quite certain that the irascible Mrs. Raisin couldn't produce an edible quiche if her life depended on it. The death is in fact ruled an accident because the police believe that the cowbane, which killed the judge, got tragically mixed in with the spinach that went into the dish. That answer is just a little too neat for Agatha however and she begins to snoop around. Along the way she is physically attacked by one of the late judge's harem and has a hex put on her by another of the dear departed's lady friends. She also uncovers a lot of dirt that has no relation to the judge's death what so ever, but she finally hits on what really happened and is almost killed for her efforts. She does however begin to find herself accepted by the people of her new hometown and she has a bunch of new friends almost before she knows what's happening.<br /><br />This is the first entry in the Agatha Raisin mystery series and the reader is introduced to a cast of characters that I assume will continue to play major roles in future stories. The reader is also introduced to Agatha who is pushy, loud, opinionated, and rude and sometimes foul-mouthed but she also exhibits a vulnerable side that makes her character very interesting. By the end of the book, the fierce London executive who doesn't seem to have a romantic bone in her body, has a crush on her neighbor and is the proud owner of a new kitten that she lies in the floor and plays with.<br /><br />The depth of the characters along with a quality mystery combine to make this a very enjoyable and interesting warm fuzzy mystery. Be warned however that all is not always warm and fuzzy when Agatha gets her dander up and heaven help anyone who gets in her way. I'm just glad that I don't like spinach quiche!ch that went into the dish. That answer is just a little too neat for Agatha however and she begins to snoop around. Along the way she is physically attacked by one of the late judge's harem and has a hex put on her by another of the dear departed's lady friends. She also uncovers a lot of dirt that has no relation to the judge's death what so ever, but she finally hits on what really happened and is almost killed for her efforts. She does however begin to find herself accepted by the people of her new hometown and she has a bunch of new friends almost before she knows what's happening. <br /> <br />This is the first entry in the Agatha Raisin mystery series and the reader is introduced to a cast of characters that I assume will continue to play major roles in future stories. The reader is also introduced to Agatha who is pushy, loud, opinionated, and rude and sometimes foul-mouthed but she also exhibits a vulnerable side that makes her character very interesting. By the end of the book, the fierce London executive who doesn't seem to have a romantic bone in her body, has a crush on her neighbor and is the proud owner of a new kitten that she lies in the floor and plays with.  <br /> <br />The depth of the characters along with a quality mystery combine to make this a very enjoyable and interesting warm fuzzy mystery. Be warned however that all is not always warm and fuzzy when Agatha gets her dander up and heaven help anyone who gets in her way. I'm just glad that I don't like spinach quiche!	2005-09-07
US	51167656	R2L1DW8R3RT7LW	0515118249	172411290	The Cat Who Blew the Whistle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Here's to you Mrs. Robinson	The 17th entry in this series finds Jim Qwilleran and his two cats happily ensconced in their apple barn home in Pickax City. What with Qwilleran's tendency to change domiciles like most people change socks this in itself sets this book apart from the others. To make things even homier, Qwilleran's love interest; Polly Duncan is building a house just up the driveway from the apple barn having decided that her apartment on the campus of the new community college just wasn't going to work out.<br /><br />The main plot of this book involves Floyd Trevelyan, the owner of a credit union and a train nut. Trevelyan has just refurbished an old train and on the day of Old No. 9's maiden run state auditors descend on the credit union and Trevelyan disappears. Of course everybody naturally assumes that Trevelyan has run off with his depositor's money but Qwilleran just can't imagine that someone who loves trains as much as Trevelyan does would willingly leave behind his new toy. To add to Qwilleran's concern, Koko does his little death dance on top of a newspaper photo of Trevelyan and Koko's dances have never been wrong.<br /><br />The secondary plot that runs through this book is the building of Polly's new house, which is tied to the first plot by the fact that her carpenter is Floyd Trevelyan's son. As for Polly, she worries so much about every little detail of the construction that Qwilleran is gravely concerned about her health, especially after her cat Bootsie gets sick. All the while Koko is acting more and more oddly as he tries to give Qwilleran clues as to what has happened and who caused it to happen. One of the added features of this book is that you aren't really sure just what crime or crimes have been committed until the very end. If you pay very close attention to Koko however you will get most of the clues that you need.<br /><br />This book is more mystery oriented than many of the other books in this series and the mystery is worthy of any mystery book ever written. I doubt that even the great Sherlock Holmes himself could have solved this one without a little help from a certain feline detective. The final piece of the puzzle is so out of left field that it might have caused Dr. Watson to hyperventilate, but Koko knew the answer all along and spent most of the book trying to enlighten Qwilleran. Adding even further laurels to this book is the return of Celia Robinson, a terminally happy grandmother from Down Below who was a major player in one of the earlier books in this series and who plays a major role in this book.<br /><br />I would definitely say that this is one of my favorite books in this series and this time the author not only delights us with her characters but serves up a top notch mystery. I just wish she had explained how Koko did that trick with the lights.ook ever written. I doubt that even the great Sherlock Holmes himself could have solved this one without a little help from a certain feline detective. The final piece of the puzzle is so out of left field that it might have caused Dr. Watson to hyperventilate, but Koko knew the answer all along and spent most of the book trying to enlighten Qwilleran. Adding even further laurels to this book is the return of Celia Robinson, a terminally happy grandmother from Down Below who was a major player in one of the earlier books in this series and who plays a major role in this book. <br /> <br />I would definitely say that this is one of my favorite books in this series and this time the author not only delights us with her characters but serves up a top notch mystery. I just wish she had explained how Koko did that trick with the lights.	2005-09-03
US	51167656	RHJ8KNXGUDNY0	1586482971	924913119	Strom: The Complicated Personal and Political Life of Strom Thurmond	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ol' Strom Revisited	To the casual observer Strom Thurmond would not seem to be a complicated man. The 1948 Dixiecrat presidential candidate would seem to be the typical Old South politician, a white supremacist who moderated his tone as the years went by out of political necessity. Jack Bass and Marilyn Thompson have however done a masterful job of showing just what a complex man this legend of the Senate really was.<br /><br />The two authors of this book are imminently qualified to write what may be for years to come the definitive biography of Strom Thurmond because both spent years as journalists covering the Senior Senator from South Carolina. Thompson was the reporter that Strom's illegitimate daughter Essie Mae Washington-Williams contacted about her story after her father's death and Bass kept such a critical journalistic eye on Thurmond that the Senator once referred to Bass as a skunk.<br /><br />Strom Thurmond is presented in this book not as a stereotype but as a man, and a very complex man at that. This is a man who as School Superintendent of his home county went out of his way to fight illiteracy among blacks. He is also a man who led the fight to repeal South Carolina's poll tax and was primarily responsible for additional federal aid to traditionally black colleges. Here also was a man who counted African-Americans among his closest and most able advisors, a man who voted in favor of the King holiday, and the only Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee who voted in favor of Bill Clinton's African-American nominee for Secretary of the Air Force. On the other hand here was a man that said that all of the armed forces of the United States could not force South Carolina to integrate and who led the segregationist bolt from the Democratic Party in 1948.<br /><br />Above all, Thurmond's legacy lies in the political landscape of America today. Before his Dixiecrat campaign in 1948 most Southerners could not conceive of voting against a Democratic presidential nominee. Thurmand's candidacy allowed many such Southerners to break that habit without actually having to vote for a Republican and once that crack appeared in the solid South, the dam was bound to break and break soon. Thurmond himself then demolished the dam by switching parties and since that time the Democratic presidential candidate has only once carried the majority of states in the old Confederacy. This new solid Republican South has for better or worse irreversibly changed the political dynamics of the United States and Thurmond was more responsible for this change than any other three people put together.<br /><br />Bass and Thompson have also done a nice job of chronicling Thurmond's relationship with his illegitimate daughter Essie Mae Washington-Williams. The authors do imply however that Williams' mother might become the kind of legend that Sally Hemings has become but from what I could see, if Thurmond wasn't the best father in the world, Carrie Butler was a far worse mother. Thankfully Mrs. Williams had an aunt who was willing to take the child in and raise her. Thurmond did however provide what may have been hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of financial support to his daughter over the years, which is more than many men in his situation would have or did do.<br /><br />Over all this is a very readable and even-handed biography of Strom Thurmond. The warts are very apparent but so are the virtues. Thurmond never admitted that he was wrong in 1948 but sometimes actions speak louder than words and Thurmond's later record in the Senate shows a definite change of heart. One especially touching section of this book deals with the death of Thurmond's daughter who was killed by a drunk driver. This aging icon becomes all too human as he tearfully tells Vice President Gore over the phone that his baby is dying. The key to a good biography is the ability of the author or authors to make their readers both angry and sympathetic with the subject, a trait thatis very apparent in this book. The only gripe that I have is that the authors both appear in the story but are referred to in the third person within the book. For some reason this began to grate on my nerves but otherwise this is an outstanding book that no reader interested in Southern history should miss., a trait that is very apparent in this book. The only gripe that I have is that the authors both appear in the story but are referred to in the third person within the book. For some reason this began to grate on my nerves but otherwise this is an outstanding book that no reader interested in Southern history should miss.	2005-09-01
US	51167656	R1UW4KV1Y5YYNZ	0380819651	490396774	Tiles and Tribulations (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Apparition Americans vs. Madame Woo-Woo	After Abigail Timberlake Washburn, the heroine of this series moves to Charleston most of her friends from Charlotte follow suit which gives the series a happy sense of continuity. The most recent move is made by CJ who buys an old fixer upper home and goes to work for Abby in her antique shop. Everything seems to be falling into place until CJ discovers that her new home is haunted. So haunted in fact that her construction crews keep quitting. Strangely though, CJ keeps coming home to find that part of the remodeling has been completed and she just assumes that it must be the ghost doing the work. Despite the helpful nature of the spirit however, CJ wants the ghost out of her house and begins to look for a ghost buster. Abby's mother comes to the rescue and finds a psychic in the yellow pages who even offers a money back guarantee and a s&eacute;ance is soon in the works.<br /><br />When the big moment finally arrives, Abby and Madame Woo-Woo the psychic get into an argument and soon Madame Woo-Woo hits the floor like a sack of wet cement and dies. At first it looks like a heart attack but pretty soon the police reveal that poison was the culprit and Abby once more starts to snoop and the fun begins.<br /><br />Mrs. Myers has created a wonderful set of regular characters for this series and has once again in this book thought up some superb temporary characters. There is a real estate agent that lives in a flying saucer, a used car salesman who deals in automobiles in which celebrities have died and a former Miss Regional Okra. Mix these characters with the Deep South atmosphere and add a very odd mystery and one gets a very enjoyable book. Just to make things all the more interesting a very old corpse is found in one of CJ's walls and Abby soon puts that puzzle together also. CJ's ghost might still be there but at least now she knows who the ghost is. I know that having that knowledge would make me feel better. On second thought, maybe I wouldn't feel better after all.<br /><br />As this series progresses Abby is getting better and better at solving these mysteries. In the first books she bumbled around until the guilty party completely startles her by confessing. In this case Abby figures out who killed Madame Woo-Woo and after confronting the killer almost joins the psychic on the other side. Even better than the mystery however are the adventures of Abby's mother who has tried and failed to become a Nun, dresses like June Cleaver and has spent time in a nudist colony. In this episode she has taken up with a Charleston club known as the Heavenly Hustlers whose members are up to their necks in this mystery.<br /><br />Once again Mrs. Myers has delivered a splendidly funny and enjoyable warm fuzzy mystery. I was afraid that the change of setting from Charlotte to Charleston would cause a drop in the quality of the stories but that hasn't happened. Its not always the mystery that will keep your attention but the side fluff in this instance is a blessing, not a curse.l.  <br /> <br />As this series progresses Abby is getting better and better at solving these mysteries. In the first books she bumbled around until the guilty party completely startles her by confessing. In this case Abby figures out who killed Madame Woo-Woo and after confronting the killer almost joins the psychic on the other side. Even better than the mystery however are the adventures of Abby's mother who has tried and failed to become a Nun, dresses like June Cleaver and has spent time in a nudist colony. In this episode she has taken up with a Charleston club known as the Heavenly Hustlers whose members are up to their necks in this mystery. <br /> <br />Once again Mrs. Myers has delivered a splendidly funny and enjoyable warm fuzzy mystery. I was afraid that the change of setting from Charlotte to Charleston would cause a drop in the quality of the stories but that hasn't happened. Its not always the mystery that will keep your attention but the side fluff in this instance is a blessing, not a curse.	2005-08-29
US	51167656	R2OJZ8F3UY2O8N	0451188209	137873600	Murder, She Wrote: a Palette for Murder	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enough Dead Bodies to Make a Zombie Movie	It seems that Jessica has a hobby we didn't know about and her pursuit of that hobby gets her into all kinds of trouble in this book. We find out early on in this book that Jessica likes to paint and she has decided to take a trip to the Hamptons, a favorite spot for artists, to take a painting class. Everything is fine until the young lady who is modeling for the budding artist's drops dead during a session. When the story hits the news, Seth Hazlitt calls from Cabot Cove just flabbergasted that Jessica has been painting pictures of naked men. The coroner rules it a heart attack but Jessica just can't believe that someone so young could die so suddenly. Of course this kind of death occurs all of the time and so the premise of the whole story is a little weak but not badly so.<br /><br />Jessica starts to snoop around and when she learns that a young artist died under the same circumstances a few years before this death she really gets suspicious. She calls up her friend George Sutherland at Scotland Yard and has him check on poisons that would mimic a heart attack but that would be hard to detect. He calls her back with the notion that ricin might just be the culprit. Another weak point in this story is that Jessica just runs with the ricin theory without giving a second thought to the fact that other poisons might also fit the bill. This is partially covered by the fact that one of the players is a former East German intelligence officer who would have had access to ricin but I can't help but think that Miss Marple would have checked on the poison a little more closely. Ricin by the way comes from the Castor Oil Bean so I was right in telling my mother that she was going to kill me with that stuff.<br /><br />In this book the bodies just keep piling up until there are four murder victims and Jessica is almost number five so the action is never dull. As you read along you keep wondering who is going to be next and at least one of the deaths comes as a total shock. There are also some interesting characters introduced in this book such as Frank the taxi driver and Mr. Scott the owner of the inn where Jessica is staying.<br /><br />While this is a very enjoyable book, there are some flaws besides the ones mentioned above. First of all in some of these books and on TV she was J.B. Fletcher while this book and some of the others in this series refer to her as J.D. Fletcher. Mr. Bain needs to make up his mind! Another problem is that Mrs. Fletcher seems to have a problem with overweight people and takes every opportunity to make remarks about their weight. It is especially bad in this book when it comes to the former German spy but she also does it to her friends, including Seth. I've never thought of Jessica as that small minded. She also rails against smokers in this book, again due to the German character. She can rail all she wants to but Mr. Bain again needs to look toward consistency here since she never criticizes her pipe smoking Scottish friend.<br /><br />Of course little points like this do not detract all that much from a well-written and interesting story and this is certainly one of those. It just bugs me no end when an author can't seem to keep his basic story straight from one book to the next. Nonetheless, as warm fuzzy mysteries go, this is another winner from the pin of Donald Bain.ock. There are also some interesting characters introduced in this book such as Frank the taxi driver and Mr. Scott the owner of the inn where Jessica is staying.  <br /> <br />While this is a very enjoyable book, there are some flaws besides the ones mentioned above. First of all in some of these books and on TV she was J.B. Fletcher while this book and some of the others in this series refer to her as J.D. Fletcher. Mr. Bain needs to make up his mind! Another problem is that Mrs. Fletcher seems to have a problem with overweight people and takes every opportunity to make remarks about their weight. It is especially bad in this book when it comes to the former German spy but she also does it to her friends, including Seth. I've never thought of Jessica as that small minded. She also rails against smokers in this book, again due to the German character. She can rail all she wants to but Mr. Bain again needs to look toward consistency here since she never criticizes her pipe smoking Scottish friend.  <br /> <br />Of course little points like this do not detract all that much from a well-written and interesting story and this is certainly one of those. It just bugs me no end when an author can't seem to keep his basic story straight from one book to the next. Nonetheless, as warm fuzzy mysteries go, this is another winner from the pin of Donald Bain.	2005-08-26
US	51167656	R173OXO6HGBYQX	0425200353	766870795	Death at Blenheim Palace (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 11)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Charles and Kate Smoke the Marlborough's	Something very foul is afoot at Blenheim Palace, the ancestral home of the Churchill clan and Charles and Kate, sometimes known as Lord and Lady Sheridan arrive just in time to try and sort out the various mysteries that are floating about. The fun thing about this entry in the Robin Paige series is that there are so many threads that our amateur sleuths must follow and they do so quite nicely with the assistance of Winston Churchill and young Ned Lawrence who will later gain fame as Lawrence of Arabia.<br /><br />The first part of the mystery involves a maid who disappeared even before the Sheridan's arrival at Blenheim Palace. This in itself did not stir much alarm but then two of the guests also disappear leaving the Duke and Duchess of Marlborough in a tizzy. The Duke is especially upset because one of the missing guests is his mistress Gladys Deacon. Obviously the Duke and Duchess are not getting along all that well and it is made quite clear that the penny pinching foul tempered Duke only married the Duchess in order to get his hands on her money. The Duke and Duchess, along with Miss Deacon are quite real historical figures and the Duchess' maiden name was Vanderbilt so there was indeed a great deal of money involved in the marriage.<br /><br />As Charles and Kate begin to sniff around in an effort to find the missing guests they also turn their attention to the AWOL maid. In following her trail they stumble onto a very troubling scenario. It seems that this maid and one of the footmen have also been employed in two other homes that have been burgled during weekend festivities. These festivities involve several guests who wear all of their finery, including some very valuable jewelry. It just so happens that the king and queen will be visiting Blenheim Palace in the very near future and Charles suspects that another burglary is in the works. His investigation leads him to believe that there is a huge criminal syndicate at work, one headed by a man known only as Mr. N., short for \\"The Napoleon of Crime.\\" This Mr. N. is also a very real character whose real name was Adam Worth and one gets the feeling that the next several entries in this series will involve this arch criminal.<br /><br />After uncovering this plot, the Sheridan's have to look for answers to several questions. How many of the servants are involved? Who are the servants who are involved reporting to? Is Gladys Deacon involved in the plot and just where is she? And finally, what happened to the maid who left without her pay or her clothes? Some of these questions are fully answered but some issues are left hanging thanks in part to the rash actions of Winston Churchill.<br /><br />The last few books of this series have been somewhat of a letdown with the authors working overtime to make political points or simply grasping at historical straws that were just too far-fetched to be believable. This book however is a return to the style of the older books produced by this husband and wife team and I enjoyed this book much more than the last two in particular. The atmosphere of the gloomy old palace is portrayed in a very vivid manner and the personalities involved make the whole story a delight. One will feel nothing but pity for the Duchess while at the same time loathing Miss Deacon and the Duke. I found myself to be quite overjoyed when Charles curtly informed the Duke that he didn't intend to take orders from the old miser, Duke or not. It made me want to jump up and shout, \\"You tell the old buzzard Charles!\\"only as Mr. N., short for \\"The Napoleon of Crime.\\" This Mr. N. is also a very real character whose real name was Adam Worth and one gets the feeling that the next several entries in this series will involve this arch criminal.  <br /> <br />After uncovering this plot, the Sheridan's have to look for answers to several questions. How many of the servants are involved? Who are the servants who are involved reporting to? Is Gladys Deacon involved in the plot and just where is she? And finally, what happened to the maid who left without her pay or her clothes? Some of these questions are fully answered but some issues are left hanging thanks in part to the rash actions of Winston Churchill. <br /> <br />The last few books of this series have been somewhat of a letdown with the authors working overtime to make political points or simply grasping at historical straws that were just too far-fetched to be believable. This book however is a return to the style of the older books produced by this husband and wife team and I enjoyed this book much more than the last two in particular. The atmosphere of the gloomy old palace is portrayed in a very vivid manner and the personalities involved make the whole story a delight. One will feel nothing but pity for the Duchess while at the same time loathing Miss Deacon and the Duke. I found myself to be quite overjoyed when Charles curtly informed the Duke that he didn't intend to take orders from the old miser, Duke or not. It made me want to jump up and shout, \\"You tell the old buzzard Charles!\\"	2005-08-20
US	51167656	R3MW4CEBQPYVLV	0515115649	466934211	The Cat Who Came to Breakfast	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Always Check that Meat Loaf for Hares	Mrs. Braun's books have often contained a pro-environmentalist message but this is the greenest book so far. For in this episode the developers have defaced Breakfast Island with a resort, worse yet, they have changed the name of the island to Pear Island and Qwilleran is fit to be tied. He is even more upset than normal since money from his K foundation has helped fund the Pear Island Resort. Even the thought of visiting the remodeled island makes him furious until two events conspire to change his mind.<br /><br />The first event is an announcement from his lady friend Polly Duncan that she is going to Oregon for two weeks to visit a friend. Knowing that he is going to be alone for two whole weeks puts Qwilleran in just the proper mood for event number two. He gets a call from his old friend Nick Bamba who asks if he can come by for a chat. It turns out that Nick and his wife have opened a B&B on the island and have themselves become the victims of some weird occurrences at the resort. Knowing about Qwilleran's mystery solving ability Nick invites the former reporter and his two cats to spend the time that Polly is gone at the Bamba B&B. Not being able to resist a good mystery, Qwilleran agrees to come to the island and the fun begins.<br /><br />Qwilleran suspects all along that the accidents aren't really accidents and he sets out to prove his theory. Koko takes up dominoes to try and point Qwilleran in the right direction but it takes forever for Koko's human to figure out what the cat is trying to tell him. Of course, Qwilleran finally figures it all out but he never would have found the answer if Koko hadn't arranged for him to meet and save the life of a local heiress. Along the way Qwilleran and the cats put up with the constant smell of fudge, an annoying neighbor, a hurricane and meat loaf with rabbit in it. Qwilleran also gets invited to high tea with the Queen Mother of island society but is disappointed to find no peacocks at the Queen's estate.<br /><br />This is another fine mystery by Mrs. Braun. The mystery itself isn't all that deep and really just plays a supporting role to the ongoing saga of Qwilleran, Koko and Yum Yum. This is after all a warm fuzzy mystery and this author proves once again with this book that she is one of the best authors in this genre. The characters are delightful and although there are several new characters introduced in this book it is not set so far away from Pickax City that the regulars are shut out. This series is extremely readable and fun, and this entry is no exception. I do wish however that Qwilleran would avoid the trap of becoming an anti-smoking fanatic like so many other former smokers. This type of judgmental behavior just doesn't suit him at all.r /> <br />This is another fine mystery by Mrs. Braun. The mystery itself isn't all that deep and really just plays a supporting role to the ongoing saga of Qwilleran, Koko and Yum Yum. This is after all a warm fuzzy mystery and this author proves once again with this book that she is one of the best authors in this genre. The characters are delightful and although there are several new characters introduced in this book it is not set so far away from Pickax City that the regulars are shut out. This series is extremely readable and fun, and this entry is no exception. I do wish however that Qwilleran would avoid the trap of becoming an anti-smoking fanatic like so many other former smokers. This type of judgmental behavior just doesn't suit him at all.	2005-08-17
US	51167656	R1R8FXB5B3RI4G	0192838423	461386470	The Man in the Iron Mask (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The Final Bow of the Musketeers	Before you start this book you should know that any resemblance between the book and the movies that Hollywood has turned out is completely accidental. The names of the main characters are about the only similarity that I could find and as is the norm, the book was much better.<br /><br />This, the last installment in the Musketeer series, gives us the story of the final acts of our heroes, Athos, Porthos, Aramis and D'Artagnan. Unlike many literary characters our Musketeer friends have aged as the story progresses and have all retired but D'Artagnan who is still the Captain of the King's Musketeers. Athos and Porthos are quite wealthy and Aramis has attained the rank of Bishop. Aramis is not content with his station however and knows a secret that he thinks he can use to become Pope. This secret is the knowledge that Louis XIV has a twin brother who is hidden away in the Bastille and Aramis is quite sure that this brother would make a better King than the current monarch. Aramis is also pretty sure that the new King in gratitude will nominate his liberator for the office of Cardinal and then will scheme to make the new Cardinal Pope.<br /><br />In this plot Aramis acts alone except for some help from Porthos who has no idea what he is involved in. The twins are successfully switched for a short while but then the plot falls apart and Aramis and Porthos flee for their lives although Porthos is still not sure what is going on. The \\"pretender\\" to the throne is left to his own devices by Aramis and is imprisoned in a new location with the iron mask added to his discomfiture. Aramis does not come across in this book as much of a hero and in many respects this story is much darker than it's predecessors.<br /><br />Given the advanced age of the Musketeers, there are not nearly as many swashbuckling adventures as one is accustomed to but on occasion Porthos in particular will rise to the challenge. The political intrigues of the Court of Louis XIV and the decline of the Musketeers are in fact the main plot lines of this story. In the end, only one of the four is left and to find out which one you will just have to read the book. Athos, by the way, only seems to play a side role in this story and is neither involved in the plot against the King or in his rescue.<br /><br />As is always the case, Dumas' writing style is superb and is filled with historical fact. He does tend to be a bit wordy and his books are often much longer than necessary but even with this slight drawback he ranks as one of my all-time favorite authors. In this book Dumas closes out the careers of his most popular characters and he does it with style.f the Musketeers are in fact the main plot lines of this story. In the end, only one of the four is left and to find out which one you will just have to read the book. Athos, by the way, only seems to play a side role in this story and is neither involved in the plot against the King or in his rescue.  <br /> <br />As is always the case, Dumas' writing style is superb and is filled with historical fact. He does tend to be a bit wordy and his books are often much longer than necessary but even with this slight drawback he ranks as one of my all-time favorite authors. In this book Dumas closes out the careers of his most popular characters and he does it with style.	2005-08-14
US	51167656	R9ZB35OFBK90Q	0380819643	768360598	Splendor in the Glass: A Den of Antiquity Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Art Appreciation, Mozella Style	Abigail Timberlake has gotten married to Greg Washburn who quit his job as a policeman in Charlotte to become a shrimp fisherman. Since there aren't a lot of shrimp in Charlotte that haven't already been breaded and fried the newlyweds move to Charleston. Abby has always wanted to be a South of Broad resident and she buys a house that does indeed make her a SOB (South of Broad). The people who live there always refer to themselves this way, and very proudly I might add. She leaves her Charlotte antique shop in the capable hands of her assistant and opens her second shop in the Holy City. No, not Rome, Charleston has so many churches that it has gained that nickname. The Rob-Bobs soon make the move themselves and Abby's mother has moved in with Abby and Greg so most of her old crew is still around for Abby's adventures. To make it all the more cozy, CJ is in Charleston for a visit.<br /><br />Of course to have any social standing at all in Charleston one not only has to live South of Broad but also has to have had three hundred years worth of Charleston ancestors. Abby, like the other newcomers is referred to as being from \\"off\\" but at least she's not a Yankee. They are referred to a s being from \\"way off.\\" That being the case, Abby is thrilled when she is invited to have tea with the grand matron of Charleston society. She's even more thrilled when she finds that the lady in question has a priceless glass collection that she wants Abby to sell for her, but the thrill dies quickly because the owner of the collection is poisoned shortly after Abby's visit. The death of any little old lady that Abby visits seems to be a recurring theme in this series. This is of course the key to the whole plot for if Abby weren't a suspect in these murders she would have no reason to poke around in an attempt to clear herself.<br /><br />As usual, Abby's investigation almost gets her killed and she fingers the killer almost by accident, but the mystery in this book is a much better one than in some of the previous books. As is also normal for these books there are laughs a plenty; most of which come from CJ and Abby's mother Mozella. One never knows from book to book just what Mozella will come up with next and in this book she becomes an art aficionado. At least she becomes an aficionado of velvet art and has her eye on a new painting for Abby's living room. It is a velvet depiction of Jesus and Elvis riding a horse and is entitled, \\"Two Kings.\\" Chasing the horse on foot are the Three Stooges with Marilyn Monroe bringing up the rear waving a Confederate flag.<br /><br />Mrs. Myers has a wonderful sense of humor and these books are a great deal of fun. The characters are always one of a kind and the endings are often a great surprise. This entry in the series is no exception. On the other hand, this author was able to lend a deep sense of atmosphere to the previous books but fell a little short with this one. Charleston has so much atmosphere though that I'm sure that this will improve in the next book. I do wish that Abby would stop wailing so much but in this book almost every sentence out of her mouth was wailed. I also wish that Mrs. Myers would stop advertising her \\"Magdalena Yoder\\" series within the text of this series. This has happened before but was particularly a problem with this book. We all know about Magdalena Mrs. Myers, there is no need to wave her in front of our face like a giant red flag. That is unless you are planning on chasing after Elvis and the Three Stooges.er one than in some of the previous books. As is also normal for these books there are laughs a plenty; most of which come from CJ and Abby's mother Mozella. One never knows from book to book just what Mozella will come up with next and in this book she becomes an art aficionado. At least she becomes an aficionado of velvet art and has her eye on a new painting for Abby's living room. It is a velvet depiction of Jesus and Elvis riding a horse and is entitled, \\"Two Kings.\\" Chasing the horse on foot are the Three Stooges with Marilyn Monroe bringing up the rear waving a Confederate flag.  <br /> <br />Mrs. Myers has a wonderful sense of humor and these books are a great deal of fun. The characters are always one of a kind and the endings are often a great surprise. This entry in the series is no exception. On the other hand, this author was able to lend a deep sense of atmosphere to the previous books but fell a little short with this one. Charleston has so much atmosphere though that I'm sure that this will improve in the next book. I do wish that Abby would stop wailing so much but in this book almost every sentence out of her mouth was wailed. I also wish that Mrs. Myers would stop advertising her \\"Magdalena Yoder\\" series within the text of this series. This has happened before but was particularly a problem with this book. We all know about Magdalena Mrs. Myers, there is no need to wave her in front of our face like a giant red flag. That is unless you are planning on chasing after Elvis and the Three Stooges.	2005-08-11
US	51167656	RUC0WPU4ITVRL	0425201139	248696214	Death in Hyde Park (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 10)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Bombs Away	Fans of this series will already be very familiar with Queen Victoria's son, who is being coroneted Edward VII as this book begins. The new king has appeared in several of these books and has become very aware of Lord Charles and Lady Kathryn Sheridan's sleuthing abilities. On Coronation Day there is an explosion in Hyde Park and shortly thereafter the king asks Charles to determine the depth of the plot and the extent of the danger to the royal family in the future.<br /><br />This is by no means a traditional murder mystery for there is no real murder. The explosion was caused when a bumbling young anarchist trips and falls on his own bomb, blowing himself up and injuring no one else. This book is really more of a fictional version of a true crime novel with a strong political message. Depending upon one's political leanings, the political message may or may not be welcome but it is a very strong thread that runs from cover to cover. The authors even go so far as to tag an inspector who is willing to break any law and violate any civil liberty with the name of Ashcraft.<br /><br />Soon after the bombing an anarchist newspaper where the young bomber worked is raided and three men on the premises are arrested. One of the men is not an anarchist at all but is just there to take the paper's lovely editor Charlotte Conway to lunch. This young man is a Labor leader and has worked with Charles before so that his protestations of innocence fall on fertile ground. When bottles containing nitric acid are found in the living quarters of all three men Charles uses his vast knowledge of the new science of fingerprinting to find out just how those bottles got there. All three men of course say that they have never seen those bottles. The investigation then moves into a courtroom setting and the defense lawyer Charles has hired uses Charles' fingerprint evidence to great advantage. This courtroom drama is easily the most enjoyable part of the book.<br /><br />As is normally the case with the books of this series, a real historical figure plays a major role in the story and in this case it is novelist Jack London. I really don't know that much about Mr. London's life but I dare say that his fans will not like the portrait of him that is painted in this book. Fans of this series may be a little put off by the fact that Kate does very little snooping in this story and mostly just presides over a tangle of sexual misconduct while comforting the victim left behind.<br /><br />I found this book to be slow reading at times, although at other times it was a page-turner. What mystery there was seemed shallow and some of the characters came across as very one-dimensional. On the other hand, I just can't say enough good things about the court scenes, which saved this book from being very ordinary. While I tend to agree with the author's concern about our civil liberties in light of the current terrorist threat, I think that they may have gotten too caught up in their message, with the story suffering as a consequence. This is not my least favorite of the series, but its close.lly the case with the books of this series, a real historical figure plays a major role in the story and in this case it is novelist Jack London. I really don't know that much about Mr. London's life but I dare say that his fans will not like the portrait of him that is painted in this book. Fans of this series may be a little put off by the fact that Kate does very little snooping in this story and mostly just presides over a tangle of sexual misconduct while comforting the victim left behind.  <br /> <br />I found this book to be slow reading at times, although at other times it was a page-turner. What mystery there was seemed shallow and some of the characters came across as very one-dimensional. On the other hand, I just can't say enough good things about the court scenes, which saved this book from being very ordinary. While I tend to agree with the author's concern about our civil liberties in light of the current terrorist threat, I think that they may have gotten too caught up in their message, with the story suffering as a consequence. This is not my least favorite of the series, but its close.	2005-08-08
US	51167656	R39CRFS0TTIQQM	0451213033	422316630	Murder, She Wrote: A Vote for Murder	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Crooked Politicians and Crime in the Streets	Pat Nebel, the wife of Maine's junior senator Warren Nebel is a literacy enthusiast and has, with the help of her husband, set up a literacy drive in conjunction with the Library of Congress. Jessica is invited to participate and heads off to Washington for a week of bookish activities. She is especially pleased that her trip coincides with a conference in DC that has brought her friend Inspector George Sutherland of Scotland Yard to town. She isn't able to get George an invitation for the reception at the White House but she does wrangle him a place at the dinner hosted by Senator and Mrs. Nebel on the program's opening night. They discover that the senator has a glamorous mansion when they arrive at his home, a mansion that over looks the Potomac and has a set of rickety steps leading down to a dock on the river. The philandering Senator Nebel is living mighty high on the hog it seems.<br /><br />After dinner, George and Jessica decide to take a stroll down to the river and there they find the lifeless body of Nebel's chief of staff Nikki Farlow. Once it is determined that Farlow was indeed murdered, the local police detective begins to look to Jessica for help as he tries to figure out who committed the crime. It doesn't take detective Moody long to figure out that having Jessica Fletcher on the trail is like having money in the bank. As Jessica sorts through the possible motives, she finds that there are several that had or imagined that they had a good reason to want Farlow dead. Then of course there are the spin-doctors, the lawyers, and the other politicians that get involved in the case, which not only complicates things; it frustrates Jessica to no end. To make matters even more complicated; the senator himself has been getting death threats in regard to an upcoming vote dealing with the location of a nuclear power plant near Cabot Cove.<br /><br />In this book, unlike some of the others in this series, the reader has all of the clues necessary to figure out who did it before Jessica announces her verdict. It isn't easy though, and you will have to pay very close attention if you want to catch the killer before Jessica does.<br /><br />As a side plot to the main murder story this book focuses on the rivalry between inspector Sutherland and Dr. Seth for Jessica's attention. Sutherland seems to be in the lead as this book ends but I'm pulling for Seth all the way. The tweed wearing, pipe smoking Scottish detective just comes across as phony to me for some reason. That's the beauty of these books, one gets so drawn into the story that you feel as if you know these people and you get all protective. That my friends is a sign of good writing and this book is most assuredly well written. It is definitely one of the better entries in the series.ure out who did it before Jessica announces her verdict. It isn't easy though, and you will have to pay very close attention if you want to catch the killer before Jessica does.  <br /> <br />As a side plot to the main murder story this book focuses on the rivalry between inspector Sutherland and Dr. Seth for Jessica's attention. Sutherland seems to be in the lead as this book ends but I'm pulling for Seth all the way. The tweed wearing, pipe smoking Scottish detective just comes across as phony to me for some reason. That's the beauty of these books, one gets so drawn into the story that you feel as if you know these people and you get all protective. That my friends is a sign of good writing and this book is most assuredly well written. It is definitely one of the better entries in the series.	2005-08-05
US	51167656	RXSSPLX91XE3V	0515113328	565790722	The Cat Who Went into the Closet	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Santa Qwilleran Rips His Pants	Jim Qwilleran, the main human character in this series, just can't seem to stay in one place for any length of time. In this entry he has moved from his perfectly good refurbished barn to the Gage mansion on Goodwinter Boulevard. It is probably important to note however that his lady friend Polly Duncan lives in the carriage house behind the Gage mansion.<br /><br />Almost immediately Koko starts rummaging in the closets and keeps appearing with things relating to the mansion's last resident, 88 year-old Euphonia Gage who has moved to Florida. It isn't long until news arrives that Mrs. Gage has committed suicide but Qwilleran simply can't accept that the lively old lady would have done such a thing. When Euphonia's will is read Qwilleran gets even more suspicious and begins his own little investigation of the retirement community where the deceased lived. During his investigation Qwilleran calls Mrs. Gage's Florida next door neighbor Celia Robinson and soon she is working hand in hand with the former investigative reporter. Once the case is solved, Celia sends Qwilleran some holiday food and after tasting her delicious food he is immediately taken with the image of Mrs. Robinson cooking full time for he and his cats. This story by the way is set in November and December and Christmas and Thanksgiving are featured prominently.<br /><br />As Qwilleran ponders what he suspects about the retirement community another mystery rears it's head when a local potato farmer disappears. Oddly enough, the farmer's late wife had worked for Mrs. Gage for forty years and since his wife's death he had been able to purchase a lot of expensive farm equipment. Someone suggests to Qwilleran that it was probably life insurance money but Pickax City's most eligible bachelor isn't so sure about that. Then, just as things get really engrossing, a mysterious buyer starts buying up all of the houses on Goodwinter Boulevard and Moose County is hit with the biggest blizzard on record. Everyone including Polly tried to warn Qwilleran about \\"The Big One\\" but he wouldn't listen and he ends up trapped at home eating cold canned soup and stale doughnuts.<br /><br />This is another excellent entry in this series and once again the people of Moose County along with Koko and Yum Yum take center stage. The mystery is a little more prominent in this book than in some of it's predecessors but it is still the whimsical setting that makes these books so much fun. Qwilleran strays from the clues that Koko has left on occasion but the ever demanding cat always manages to put his human back on the right trail. Unfortunately, even the wonderful cats can't save their curmudgeon of a human from a stint as Santa in the local Christmas parade and the portrait Mrs. Braun paints of Qwilleran in a suit that is too tight attempting to climb a ladder as stitches tear left and right is hilarious. This is yet another winner from Lilian Jackson Braun.yone including Polly tried to warn Qwilleran about \\"The Big One\\" but he wouldn't listen and he ends up trapped at home eating cold canned soup and stale doughnuts.  <br /> <br />This is another excellent entry in this series and once again the people of Moose County along with Koko and Yum Yum take center stage. The mystery is a little more prominent in this book than in some of it's predecessors but it is still the whimsical setting that makes these books so much fun. Qwilleran strays from the clues that Koko has left on occasion but the ever demanding cat always manages to put his human back on the right trail. Unfortunately, even the wonderful cats can't save their curmudgeon of a human from a stint as Santa in the local Christmas parade and the portrait Mrs. Braun paints of Qwilleran in a suit that is too tight attempting to climb a ladder as stitches tear left and right is hilarious. This is yet another winner from Lilian Jackson Braun.	2005-08-02
US	51167656	R2D2GYE0OI4TL0	0878440496	774992040	Coastal Ghosts: Haunted Places from Wilmington North Carolina to Savannah Georgia	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Trees Died For This?	To give this book all of the credit that I can I will say that the directions offered at the end of each story look pretty explicit and could help someone to find the locations in question. I will also say that the last two stories in the book are pretty good even if they are very short. Otherwise, this book was a complete disappointment.<br /><br />Only the last two stories contain any recent eyewitness accounts and most of these stories would barely qualify as ghost stories. Many of the stories included have nothing at all to do with ghosts but deal instead with old legends that include a bunch of cursed skulls and a body that was pickled at sea. When the stories deal with ghosts at all the author doesn't choose to deal with them much. In story after story the history of the haunt in question goes on and on and the ghost itself only gets mentioned in the final paragraph. In one instance, the ghost only gets one sentence. Fortunately, most of the stories told here can also be found in other books that do a much better job of telling the story. A blurb on the back cover refers to this book as, \\"light\\", which I would say is a very kind way of putting it.<br /><br />Add to this the fact that the stories are way to short, covering twenty-five stories in just one hundred eighty-four pages and that includes several pages of photos and you really don't have much of a book. To make things even worse, the writing while sometimes very good is also often disjointed and the reader is forced to go back and read certain sections over in order to figure out what the author is talking about. Whatever it is that she is talking about however, I can assure you that it has very little to do with ghosts.	2005-07-29
US	51167656	R4FCB7W8FUI09	038081191X	176592683	Nightmare in Shining Armor (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wynnell the Headless Antique Dealer	Abigail Timberlake, the heroine of this series, is hosting a Halloween party and the guests include a pair of dice, Little Bo Peep, a headless woman, and the Rob-Bobs as James and Babs. The sensation of the evening however is Abby's mother who shows up in an outrageous costume that is the talk of the party. Abby's best friend Wynnell, the headless woman, gets so drunk that she passes out and has to be taken upstairs and put to bed. While Abby deals with her drunken friend the party gets out of hand and before you know it Abby's house is on fire. It's a small fire but a fire is a fire and Abby has one of her little fits and throws everyone out. Once everyone has left, Abby goes up to check on Wynnell who is awake by now and low and behold they discover a dead body under Abby's bed. The deceased is stuffed into a suit of armor and both Abby and Wynnell figure to be suspects.<br /><br />Knowing full well that she would be a suspect, Abby begins to snoop in order to clear Wynnell and herself of any guilt. Before long she visits a wealthy older lady who has an unrivaled collection of antique armor, or had a collection to be more specific for she has just sold the whole collection. To make matters worse, shortly after Abby leaves the premises, the lady in question is found dead. Now Abby stands to be a suspect in two murders so she has to do her sleuthing well and quickly. As she searches through clues she finds out some secrets that her best friend Wynnell had neglected to share about herself. She also discovers the her ex-husband Buford is even lower than she thought and also finds out that her fiancee has quit his job because he wants to work on a shrimp boat.<br /><br />In the previous books in this series Abby has just sort of stumbled onto the killer, usually with absolutely no clue as to who did it until the killer confesses. This time however, she figures it out all by herself but still almost ends up joining the heavenly chorus because she confronts the killer all by herself. The anti-climatic end leads the reader to the conclusion that Abby is leaving Charlotte although some of the old gang seems to be going with her. If CJ and Wynnell don't end up going with her also I am going to be quite upset, but at least I know that Abby's irrepressible mama is going to continue to be a major force in this series.<br /><br />This entry in the \\"Den of Antiquity\\" series offers a fairly good mystery along with a fun plot. This story is not quite as funny as some of it's predecessors but it still offers up some hilarious moments along with some heavy doses of gossip. CJ and her Shelby stories are always a hoot although there are less of them here than in previous books. The only problem with this book was that the ending was just a little flat since no motive for the murder was provided and the whole final scenario was way too similar to the ending of \\"Baroque and Desperate.\\" All in all though, I enjoyed this book immensely.er all by herself. The anti-climatic end leads the reader to the conclusion that Abby is leaving Charlotte although some of the old gang seems to be going with her. If CJ and Wynnell don't end up going with her also I am going to be quite upset, but at least I know that Abby's irrepressible mama is going to continue to be a major force in this series.  <br /> <br />This entry in the \\"Den of Antiquity\\" series offers a fairly good mystery along with a fun plot. This story is not quite as funny as some of it's predecessors but it still offers up some hilarious moments along with some heavy doses of gossip. CJ and her Shelby stories are always a hoot although there are less of them here than in previous books. The only problem with this book was that the ending was just a little flat since no motive for the murder was provided and the whole final scenario was way too similar to the ending of \\"Baroque and Desperate.\\" All in all though, I enjoyed this book immensely.	2005-07-27
US	51167656	R1HVD7UFLQNSNY	0451194756	284789420	Murder, She Wrote: a Little Yuletide Murder	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Grinch Who Shot Santa	Its early December in Cabot Cove and the denizens of this small Maine town have gathered to plan their annual Christmas Festival. After a while someone notices the absence of the ever-jovial Rory Brent who always plays Santa at the festival. Knowing that only something serious could keep Brent away from this meeting the townspeople send someone to check on Santa. To the great dismay of the whole town, Rory Brent is found in one of his barns, shot to death.<br /><br />Following the murder there are more than a few questions floating around Cabot Cove not the least of which is who will play Santa this year. One thing that everybody seems certain of however is the identity of the murderer. Jake Walther is almost universally disliked in Cabot Cove and it is well known that he and the victim didn't get along. Furthermore, the victim's son immediately accuses Walther of the murder so that in the eyes of the public Jake has already been tried and convicted. Jessica is not sure whether or not Jake is guilty but she is very disturbed by the attitude of her fellow citizens. She keeps reminding both others and herself that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. She doesn't get actively involved however until Jake's wife Mary asks for her help and the more the famous mystery writer finds out, the more she digs. Along the way she discovers that \\"Saint Rory\\" wasn't so saintly after all and that several other people aren't really who they seem to be.<br /><br />I have always been very fond of the books in this series that feature Cabot Cove and I particularly enjoyed spending Christmas in this quaint little snow-covered town. The plot is a little slow to develop at times but the author still manages to make this book very hard to put down. Just enough information dribbles in during each chapter to make you really want to find out what happens next. Even more enjoyable is the fact that some of the characters in this book are very complex which is not the norm for this series. Actually, I found the ending of the book to be quite touching and the depth of feeling that came across from the characters was very moving.<br /><br />In my opinion, this is one of the better books in this series and I highly recommend it to any fan of Jessica Fletcher or warm fuzzy mystery novels. Plus, you'll never guess who ends up playing Santa!s. Actually, I found the ending of the book to be quite touching and the depth of feeling that came across from the characters was very moving.  <br /> <br />In my opinion, this is one of the better books in this series and I highly recommend it to any fan of Jessica Fletcher or warm fuzzy mystery novels. Plus, you'll never guess who ends up playing Santa!	2005-07-24
US	51167656	R3ARGDJKTCK7N6	0425192644	322157350	Death at Glamis Castle (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The Resurrection of Prince Eddy	Lord and Lady Sheridan are on holiday in the north of England when an urgent message arrives calling Charles and Kate (Lord and Lady Sheridan) to parts unknown at the request of King Edward VII. They arrive at the train station to find a special train waiting for them and a squad of hand-picked soldiers. Still not knowing where they are bound or why, the sleuthing couple are intrigued to find that the rail lines have been cleared so that their train can make all possible speed. The reader of course will know by the title of the book that they are headed to Glamis Castle, the hereditary home of the recently deceased Queen Mother who puts in a short appearance as a small child.<br /><br />The authors of this series put a great deal of time and energy into including real historical characters in their books and this entry is no exception. The presence of these historical figures adds a great deal to this series but in this case, as in at least one other entry, the authors have taken a leap off of the edge of historical believability. The scenario played out in this book is based on one of the great conspiracy theories of all time and sometimes the whole story borders on the ridiculous. It is a well known historical fact that King Edward's eldest son, Prince Eddy, was an embarrassment to the royal family and that there was a great sigh of relief in many quarters when the young Prince died of syphilis. All of this is just too convenient for those who traffic in conspiracies however and so the theory that he had not died but was exiled came into being. He was, according to the authors of this book, exiled to Glamis Castle where he lived in solitude until August of 1901 when he disappeared.<br /><br />King Edward knowing full well that the monarchy would be shaken to it's very core if this great deception were to come to light, sent for Charles and Kate because they had proven themselves to be able and most of all discreet investigators. All the more ominous was the fact that just after the Prince was discovered missing, one of his servants was found with her throat slashed. Since yet another conspiracy theory had linked Prince Eddy to the Ripper killings Charles and Kate not only had to find the Prince, but also prove that he didn't kill the maid. Just to muddy the water even further, Prince Eddy's mind has become unstable and he thinks that he is Bonnie Prince Charlie trying to escape the English army. Just by coincidence, his closest friend is the daughter of his slain maid and her name is Flora MacDonald.<br /><br />As is the norm in this series, the authors paint a beautiful verbal picture of turn of the century England and in this case, Scotland. The characters that they create are very believable and the haunted setting of Glamis Castle is marvelous. Unfortunately, the plot is a little weak and the reader will pretty much have the mystery solved by the middle of the book. The presence of cleaver German agents, a love-sick Constable, and a band of gypsies all combine to make this story almost comical at times. The sad thing is that the authors didn't intend it to be funny. This book is just not up to par with most of the other books in this series. It is an enjoyable read and I loved the Scottish setting but all things considered, I would recommend most of the authors' other books well ahead of this one.fact that just after the Prince was discovered missing, one of his servants was found with her throat slashed. Since yet another conspiracy theory had linked Prince Eddy to the Ripper killings Charles and Kate not only had to find the Prince, but also prove that he didn't kill the maid. Just to muddy the water even further, Prince Eddy's mind has become unstable and he thinks that he is Bonnie Prince Charlie trying to escape the English army. Just by coincidence, his closest friend is the daughter of his slain maid and her name is Flora MacDonald.  <br /> <br />As is the norm in this series, the authors paint a beautiful verbal picture of turn of the century England and in this case, Scotland. The characters that they create are very believable and the haunted setting of Glamis Castle is marvelous. Unfortunately, the plot is a little weak and the reader will pretty much have the mystery solved by the middle of the book. The presence of cleaver German agents, a love-sick Constable, and a band of gypsies all combine to make this story almost comical at times. The sad thing is that the authors didn't intend it to be funny. This book is just not up to par with most of the other books in this series. It is an enjoyable read and I loved the Scottish setting but all things considered, I would recommend most of the authors' other books well ahead of this one.	2005-07-21
US	51167656	R23SVY0B0VILSP	0515111279	83588632	The Cat Who Wasn't There	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Haggis and Neeps All Around	Some regular readers of this series find the Moose County setting to be somewhat dull while others love the eccentric people and odd places that make up Moose County. I tend to fall into the second category but this book contains both home and away settings so everybody should be pleased.<br /><br />Jim Qwilleran has just rushed home from his summer retreat in the Potato Mountains because a prowler has accosted his lady friend Polly Duncan. He has hardly settled back into life in Pickax City when Polly informs him that a group of Moose County residents are planning a trip to Scotland. Since Polly is going and since, as he informs everyone he sees, his mother was a Mackintosh, Qwilleran decides to sign up for the trip himself.<br /><br />Once the group arrives in Scotland everything is a blur as Irma Hasselrich takes them through the Highlands and Western Isles at a breakneck speed. That is until one of their number has an apparent heart attack and dies. To make things even worse, their bus driver mysteriously disappears with some of their luggage. This odd coincidence and the fact that the deceased had been closely associated with the bus driver sets Qwilleran's mustache to tingling. Even more odd, when the ace reporter calls home to check on the cats he finds out that Koko had let out a blood curdling yowl at the exact moment that the member of the touring party had died.<br /><br />When they arrive back in Moose County Qwilleran starts to sniff around and begins to formulate a theory. Unfortunately, the cats do not agree with his theory and both of them start to leave all of the clues that they can think of. Koko even makes a series of mad dashes that end with him plowing into Qwilleran like a mad bull in an apparent attempt to push the amateur sleuth in another direction. In the end of course, Qwilleran and his feline friends solve the mystery but not before Yum Yum ends up in a very dangerous situation.<br /><br />This is one of the more engaging books in this series and the mystery plays a larger part in this plot that it does in some of the other books. The descriptions of Scotland are marvelous and the sometimes rather odd Scottish diet is well described. The reader is also introduced to some more residents of Moose County like the Chisholm sisters who have a huge collection of teddy bears and also the new director of the Community Theater, Dwight Somers. I suppose that Mrs. Braun had to introduce some new residents of Moose County since she keeps killing off the old ones. The Community Theater by the way is producing \\"Macbeth\\", which is in part responsible for the group's trip to Scotland.<br /><br />I just love Moose County and I also love Scotland so there isn't much about this book that I didn't like, although I was mighty worried about Yum Yum for a little while. Along with the new characters, several old friends make appearances and this book is just really an enjoyable read.eries and the mystery plays a larger part in this plot that it does in some of the other books. The descriptions of Scotland are marvelous and the sometimes rather odd Scottish diet is well described. The reader is also introduced to some more residents of Moose County like the Chisholm sisters who have a huge collection of teddy bears and also the new director of the Community Theater, Dwight Somers. I suppose that Mrs. Braun had to introduce some new residents of Moose County since she keeps killing off the old ones. The Community Theater by the way is producing \\"Macbeth\\", which is in part responsible for the group's trip to Scotland.<br /><br />I just love Moose County and I also love Scotland so there isn't much about this book that I didn't like, although I was mighty worried about Yum Yum for a little while. Along with the new characters, several old friends make appearances and this book is just really an enjoyable read.	2005-07-18
US	51167656	R2E0H7XZCGQGVE	0060531126	964752527	1812: The War That Forged a Nation	Books	4	51	53	N	N	Mr. Madison's War	The War of 1812 is often passed over very quickly in American history class because it is supposedly neither very interesting nor important. Walter Borneman seems to have taken exception to this idea and has set about to show his readers just how interesting and important this war was. His writing style and his ability to guide the reader along through a maze of events and people in a clearly understandable way help him to accomplish his first goal. I think however, that he may have overreached on the importance of the war, at least when it comes to national unity.<br /><br />Borneman writes much like a novelist and his prose keeps the story of this conflict going in a quick paced and highly engaging manner. He is in fact, a little too conversational at times and although I did find this to be a little distracting it wasn't a big problem at all. The most amazing aspect of Mr. Borneman's writing style is that he manages to tie all of the action into the bigger picture with what appears to be very little effort. This is no small feat when one considers that this was a war that was pretty much divided into at least five separate little wars that were connected only tenuously to each other. Add to that the several Indian Nations involved, most of which sided with the British but not all, and one tribe that divided up and fought each other and one has the makings of a convoluted mess. Borneman somehow manages to tie it all together without getting his readers completely lost and on top of that he keeps it interesting. Not only interesting I might add, but fascinating.<br /><br />Borneman's main contention is that the War of 1812 made the United States into a confident and united nation. He proves his point about American confidence fairly well and also shows that this war gained a good deal of respect for the U.S. among the powers of the world. The Monroe Doctrine would surely not have been possible before 1812 for no European nation would have paid it any attention at all.<br /><br />On the other hand Mr. Borneman falls short in his argument about the new unity of the United States as a result of the war. One of the chief handicaps that hampered American plans during the war was that the states didn't work well with the Federal Government or with each other for that matter. State militia units were constantly refusing to cross out of their states or into Canada, and Vermont and New York farmers were selling tons of supplies to the British. While the outcome of the war did no doubt strengthen American unity somewhat, there was still a long way to go and no matter Mr. Borneman's claims, the United States remained a plural term for many of it's citizens for many years to come.<br /><br />While the author's main thesis is not all that well supported by this book this is still an excellent short history of the War of 1812. It is highly readable, easy to follow and solidly researched. There is little or no new scholarship to be found here but for anyone who has a limited knowledge of this era of American history I would highly recommend this book. I would also think that even a student of this time period might find out a few new things within these pages for Mr. Borneman has brought a fairly complicated subject to life and has given it a focus.at all. <br /> <br />On the other hand Mr. Borneman falls short in his argument about the new unity of the United States as a result of the war. One of the chief handicaps that hampered American plans during the war was that the states didn't work well with the Federal Government or with each other for that matter. State militia units were constantly refusing to cross out of their states or into Canada, and Vermont and New York farmers were selling tons of supplies to the British. While the outcome of the war did no doubt strengthen American unity somewhat, there was still a long way to go and no matter Mr. Borneman's claims, the United States remained a plural term for many of it's citizens for many years to come.  <br /> <br />While the author's main thesis is not all that well supported by this book this is still an excellent short history of the War of 1812. It is highly readable, easy to follow and solidly researched. There is little or no new scholarship to be found here but for anyone who has a limited knowledge of this era of American history I would highly recommend this book. I would also think that even a student of this time period might find out a few new things within these pages for Mr. Borneman has brought a fairly complicated subject to life and has given it a focus.	2005-07-15
US	51167656	RGMZ07B19F0UP	0380811898	38576189	A Penny Urned (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Midnight in the Garden of Silly and Fun	For those not familiar with this series, the heroine is one Abigail Timberlake, an antique dealer from Charlotte, North Carolina. Abby has a knack for inheriting things and that knack is the basis for the plot of this book. I must mention however, that Abby did not inherit her shop but the author has made that claim in both this book and the previous entry in the series. Inconsistency in the overall story line is the biggest problem that I have with this series and I really wish that Mrs. Myers would try and do better.<br /><br />Abby's knack for being an heir crops up early on in this story when she gets a dose of good news and bad news. The bad news is that a relative that she didn't even know existed has died. Drowned in a bathtub full of champagne. The good news is that this relative, Lula Mae Wiggins, has left her entire estate to Abby. Even better news comes to Abby when she finds out that Lula Mae lived in Savannah's historic district and her estate includes her house.<br /><br />Soon Abby and her wonderfully quirky mother, along with Abby's two best friends, CJ and Wynnell are headed for Savannah. On the way down someone mentions \\"The Book.\\" Mama thinks that they mean the Bible but as anyone familiar with Savannah knows \\"The Book\\" refers to \\"Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil\\" and from the time \\"The Book\\" is mentioned \\"A Penny Urned\\" often reads like a companion novel. Right down to an African-American lady who wears a big straw hat, wears a juju bag and talks to a dead girl in Bonaventure Cemetery.<br /><br />After arriving in Savannah, CJ and Wynnell sort of go off on their own and basically run amuck on River Street. Wynnell ends up running off to Tokyo with a group of Japanese tourists after she and CJ fall into the river. Mama sticks with Abby, all the while trying to pick up a man either for herself or Abby and in the end she does find a man for CJ. After a while though, even mama disappears adding one more mystery to those that Abby has discovered since arriving in Savannah. In fact, the longer Abby stays in Savannah, the more questions she has and since the police aren't finding any answers she starts to sniff around on her own. In the end everything becomes clear but there are almost too many different plots floating around and most of the mysteries are only related to each other in the barest sense of the word. Its all just a little confusing but then the answers start coming and it all makes sense, but just barely. Of course there is one problem that Abby doesn't know about until it falls into her lap and almost gets her and her mama a one way trip on a boat. The books in this series always seem to end with a sudden and unexpected revelation that catches Abby completely off guard so it shouldn't be a surprise when this one also ends this way.<br /><br />Although the plot is a little disjointed in places, the Savannah connection and the hilarious antics of some of the characters combined to make this one of my favorite entries in this series. From the Pirate House to the Waving Girl statue Savannah is thoroughly integrated into this story and the city itself almost seems like one of the characters in the book. Both hi-jinx and questions abound, making this a page-turner from start to finish so grab some pink champagne, climb in the tub and read till you drop.discovered since arriving in Savannah. In fact, the longer Abby stays in Savannah, the more questions she has and since the police aren't finding any answers she starts to sniff around on her own. In the end everything becomes clear but there are almost too many different plots floating around and most of the mysteries are only related to each other in the barest sense of the word. Its all just a little confusing but then the answers start coming and it all makes sense, but just barely. Of course there is one problem that Abby doesn't know about until it falls into her lap and almost gets her and her mama a one way trip on a boat. The books in this series always seem to end with a sudden and unexpected revelation that catches Abby completely off guard so it shouldn't be a surprise when this one also ends this way. <br /> <br />Although the plot is a little disjointed in places, the Savannah connection and the hilarious antics of some of the characters combined to make this one of my favorite entries in this series. From the Pirate House to the Waving Girl statue Savannah is thoroughly integrated into this story and the city itself almost seems like one of the characters in the book. Both hi-jinx and questions abound, making this a page-turner from start to finish so grab some pink champagne, climb in the tub and read till you drop.	2005-07-12
US	51167656	RJMEHQQ13IINK	0451212843	898062858	Murder, She Wrote: Destination Murder	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hercule Poirot Eat Your Heart Out	There are very few things that have a stronger romantic hold on people than do trains. The \\"Iron Horse\\" has captivated people for far longer than any living person can remember and trains are a mainstay of the entertainment industry. Just think about how many songs, movies, TV shows and books feature trains, the list is just too long to remember. There are also numerous clubs for those who take the fascination with trains just a little farther than the rest of us do. It is a railroad excursion held by one of these clubs that provides the setting for this very entertaining book.<br /><br />Cabot Cove insurance agent Reggie Weems is vice president of one of these clubs and invites Jessica to be his guest on one of the club's excursions in British Columbia. On the first day of the trip, club president Alvin Blevin goes into convulsions and dies very unselfishly setting up a mystery to be solved. Blevin, despite his selfless act that creates our mystery, is very unpopular with most of the club members so the suspect list is very long. At first though, Jessica is the only one who suspects foul play but she, being a mystery writer, has done a lot of research on poisons and immediately recognizes Blevin's symptoms.<br /><br />To add even more romance to this story, the agency that is charged with investigating the murder is the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Mounties. Once RCMP Detective Christian Marshall gets the autopsy report and learns that Jessica was absolutely right about the poison he begins to take her sleuthing seriously and ends up relying on her for many of his clues. As for Jessica, her curiosity is running at full throttle and she ends up in quite a bit of danger before she finds the path that leads to the guilty party.<br /><br />This is one of the better books in this series, but with trains and Mounties it couldn't possibly fail. The scenery along the train's route is beautifully described and there is even a lady on the train who carries a book about wildflowers so she can point out the different species of flora that the train passes by. The characters, and some of them are indeed characters, are believable and well thought out and this mystery really draws the reader into the story, much more so than in some of the other books in this series. Best of all though, despite numerous red herrings the reader actually has enough information to solve the mystery before Jessica does so. There are some sub-plots that information is withheld on, but the Blevin murder is solvable. Mr. Bain has a tendency to withhold information but he does a splendid job with this book.<br /><br />If you only read one \\"Murder She Wrote\\" mystery, this might well be the one that you should choose.about wildflowers so she can point out the different species of flora that the train passes by. The characters, and some of them are indeed characters, are believable and well thought out and this mystery really draws the reader into the story, much more so than in some of the other books in this series. Best of all though, despite numerous red herrings the reader actually has enough information to solve the mystery before Jessica does so. There are some sub-plots that information is withheld on, but the Blevin murder is solvable. Mr. Bain has a tendency to withhold information but he does a splendid job with this book.  <br /> <br />If you only read one \\"Murder She Wrote\\" mystery, this might well be the one that you should choose.	2005-07-09
US	51167656	R2LR89P7Z2I778	0425189090	329591791	Death at Dartmoor (A Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Elementary My Dear Sheridan	The husband and wife sleuthing team of Lord Charles and Lady Kathryn Sheridan have found their way to Dartmoor just in time for a fine adventure. Charles is going to the famous prison at Dartmoor to set up a fingerprinting operation and Kate is looking around the fog-shrouded moors in search of material for a new book.  Also, Charles has a particular interest in one prisoner whom he believes has been falsely imprisoned and he thinks that he can prove this by the use of fingerprints.<br /><br />Shortly after Charles visits the prison and also this particular prisoner, there is a prison break and one of the three escapees is none other than the prisoner that Charles thinks is innocent. To cloudy the waters even more, a local Lord is found murdered shortly after the escape and the locals immediately conclude that the escapee did it. The other two escapees are caught in short order by the way, but the one who hold's Charles' interest is nowhere to be found.  After some sniffing around, Charles is able to say conclusively that the prisoner in question was not guilty of the crime for which he had been sent to Dartmoor. After proving this man's innocence of the first crime, Charles and Kate set out to find out who really murdered the local Lord, which of course they do.<br /><br />As is normally the case with this series, actual historical characters are to be found in this book, the most notable of which is Dr. Arthur Conan Doyle, who is not yet a Sir. Doyle is in Dartmoor trying to get a feel for the moors as he prepares to write \\"The Hound of the Baskervilles.\\"  Doyle plays a rather large part in this story but I must say that I thought that the authors were a little bit hard on him. Could it be that the Albert's are a little jealous of the Grand Master of mystery novels?<br /><br />The plot in this book is a little weaker than in previous entries in this series and the mystery is a little too easy to solve. I prefer that the mystery be too easy to solve however, rather than have clues withheld so that the reader can't solve the mystery at all. As usual, the authors do a wonderful job of transporting the reader to turn of the century England and they provide such intricate details of the food the characters are eating that reading these books always makes me hungry. This is not a series to take up if you are on a diet. This may not be the best book in this series but it is still a very fun and entertaining read.rather than have clues withheld so that the reader can't solve the mystery at all. As usual, the authors do a wonderful job of transporting the reader to turn of the century England and they provide such intricate details of the food the characters are eating that reading these books always makes me hungry. This is not a series to take up if you are on a diet. This may not be the best book in this series but it is still a very fun and entertaining read.	2005-07-06
US	51167656	R3JQV17GHO19M7	0515109509	990324972	The Cat Who Moved a Mountain	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Mountain Adventures of a City Slicker	In an earlier book in this series Jim Qwilleran inherited a pot full of money but there was a stipulation. He had to live in Moose County for five years or he forfeited his windfall. As this book begins, Qwilleran has just completed his five years and is contemplating his future. He has come to love Moose County and it's quirky residents but he was born and raised a city boy and sometimes he longs for more action. The former reporter decides that he needs some time in a quiet atmosphere to think through his options and one of his friends suggests that he spend some time in the Potato Mountains.<br /><br />In order to find a summer retreat that will accept pets, Qwilleran has to rent a huge former mountain inn that sets on the peak of Big Potato Mountain. It turns out that the last owner of the home was murdered and as normal, Koko immediately begins to exhibit strange behavior. Yum Yum on the other hand starts to tear out bits of her own fur, a behavior that has Qwilleran very upset until the veterinarian tells him that this is not unusual in a spayed female. It is a trait that I have witnessed in my own spayed female cat and this little sidebar makes it very clear that Mrs. Braun most assuredly knows her cats.<br /><br />Qwilleran for his part has all kinds of trouble in the unfamiliar mountain setting. He has learned some things about rural life during his sojourn in Moose County but the mountains provide an entirely different set of challenges. He gets lost on the mountain roads, almost falls over a waterfall, gets lost while hiking in the woods and gets trapped on the mountain after a dam break. What's a poor city slicker to do?<br /><br />Despite all of his trials, Qwilleran still manages to get involved in local politics. More specifically he gets involved in a fight between the Spuds (people who live in town and support development) and the Taters (mountain people who oppose development) and he finds that a serious injustice has been done to one of the Tater families. With the help of Koko, Qwilleran wades through the evidence (and a mudslide) and discovers the truth, which once again puts his life in danger and requires a cat to save the day.<br /><br />The mystery itself, as is often the case in this series, plays a decidedly secondary role in a plot that is laced with humor and oddball characters, including an old mountain man who builds Qwilleran a gazebo that has no door. This book is also a warm fuzzy mystery with a conscience as Mrs. Braun goes to great lengths to point out what happens when humans try to bend mother nature to their own ends. As usual, the writing style is engaging, fun and entertaining. This author's characters are always unpredictable and unforgettable and the cats are fascinating. Mrs. Braun even throws a few witches into this book, just to keep things interesting. This is one of the best books in the series so far and it was a real pleasure to read.e Tater families. With the help of Koko, Qwilleran wades through the evidence (and a mudslide) and discovers the truth, which once again puts his life in danger and requires a cat to save the day. <br /> <br />The mystery itself, as is often the case in this series, plays a decidedly secondary role in a plot that is laced with humor and oddball characters, including an old mountain man who builds Qwilleran a gazebo that has no door. This book is also a warm fuzzy mystery with a conscience as Mrs. Braun goes to great lengths to point out what happens when humans try to bend mother nature to their own ends. As usual, the writing style is engaging, fun and entertaining. This author's characters are always unpredictable and unforgettable and the cats are fascinating. Mrs. Braun even throws a few witches into this book, just to keep things interesting. This is one of the best books in the series so far and it was a real pleasure to read.	2005-07-03
US	51167656	R148FQWE8ZWB3F	1564147649	289883595	The World's Most Haunted Places: From The Secret Files Of Ghostvillage.com	Books	5	68	69	N	N	Perfection!	First of all, it should be stated that this is not truly a book that covers the \\"World's Most Haunted Places\\" because there is only one story from continental Europe and none from Africa, Asia, or South America. Mostly, this is an account of some very haunted places in what could be termed the Anglo-Saxon world, in other words the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and the United States. Of course to do the extensive examination of each case that the author presents here and cover the entire world would require a tome of Biblical proportions or collection of many volumes. Maybe we can hope for the second possibility and can expect many more books from this very talented writer.<br /><br />This is quite frankly one of the best ghost story books that I have come across in a very long time. The author has taken the time to do all of the three things that go into making a good book of this type. First he presents the history of the place where the haunting is located and does so accurately but without getting bogged down in detail. Therefore, the reader will learn something of the history of places like the Queen Mary, Big Nose Kate's Saloon or the White House but just enough to get a real feel for the place and not enough to make this into a history book. On top of this, Mr. Belanger has his facts straight and doesn't spout historical fallacies that are so glaring that the entire book's credibility is ruined.<br /><br />Next, the author presents a clear and logical history of the haunt itself. He relates the story behind the ghost or ghosts in question by telling his readers the theories about whom the ghost might be. Sometimes there is more than one school of thought when it comes to this question and Belanger relates them all, letting the reader decide which theory best fits. He then proceeds to relate the early sightings involving the haunt he is writing about and some of these apparitions have been reported for hundreds of years.<br /><br />Finally, each and every story related in this book is backed up with modern eyewitness accounts, a trait that is often missing from these books.  Mr. Belanger has most certainly done his homework and has talked to at least one person who has experienced each haunt first hand, and in many cases he has testimony from several witnesses. Many of the cases covered in this book contain accounts of paranormal experiences that have occurred in the last five years and nowhere does the author rely on old legends which no living person can attest to. Some of the haunts to be found in the book are well known, such as the Whaley House and the Tower of London, but even with these well worn haunts Mr. Belanger is able to shed some new light. He does this once again by actually talking with people who have had some kind of experience is the last few years.<br /><br />The author's writing style is pleasing, his research is meticulous and he has done the leg work necessary to bring his stories to life and make them believable. It has been a long time since I enjoyed a book of ghost stories as much as I have enjoyed this one. I wish that everybody who plans on writing a book of this type would read this book so that they could see how it should be done. This is as close to the perfect ghost story book as I think I am ever likely to read.d every story related in this book is backed up with modern eyewitness accounts, a trait that is often missing from these books.  Mr. Belanger has most certainly done his homework and has talked to at least one person who has experienced each haunt first hand, and in many cases he has testimony from several witnesses. Many of the cases covered in this book contain accounts of paranormal experiences that have occurred in the last five years and nowhere does the author rely on old legends which no living person can attest to. Some of the haunts to be found in the book are well known, such as the Whaley House and the Tower of London, but even with these well worn haunts Mr. Belanger is able to shed some new light. He does this once again by actually talking with people who have had some kind of experience is the last few years.  <br /> <br />The author's writing style is pleasing, his research is meticulous and he has done the leg work necessary to bring his stories to life and make them believable. It has been a long time since I enjoyed a book of ghost stories as much as I have enjoyed this one. I wish that everybody who plans on writing a book of this type would read this book so that they could see how it should be done. This is as close to the perfect ghost story book as I think I am ever likely to read.	2005-06-30
US	51167656	R3Q0BX54AWJJS6	0380802279	150345945	Estate of Mind (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	If You Build a Better Mouse Trap...	I have come to really like this series but the author really needs to pay more attention to her overall story line. In this book the author claims that Abigail Timberlake inherited her antique shop from her aunt but anyone who read the leadoff book of the series knows that Abby already had her shop before the aunt in question dies. In the second book, the man who had inherited the shop had disappeared and Jane Cox, CJ to her friends, was in that shop. There was never any explanation as to how CJ got the shop but Abby certainly didn't inherit it. One wonders just how much attention Ms. Myers pays to her own stories. There are also several typographical and grammatical errors in this book that the editor most certainly should have fixed. Those I can live with but the inconstancies have to stop.<br /><br />Beyond these problems, this is another fun mystery featuring the feisty Abigail Timberlake and her oddball friends and family. I always begin these books with a great deal of anticipation in regards to what Abby's mother will be up to in the new installment. This book finds her learning an African language so that she can go to Africa and be a missionary. She doesn't plan on going through her church or consulting the Bishop, she is just going to hop on a plane, fly to Africa and start doing missionary stuff. She finally agrees to at least talk to the Bishop who urges her to pray about it and in the end she decides that instead of being a missionary she will join a health club that masquerades as a sex emporium. Along the way she openly lusts after a young biker named Fred.<br /><br />This story revolves around a very important and valuable painting that Abby buys at a church auction. The valuable painting is covered by a rather shabby fake but Abby buys it for the frame, only to discover the treasure she has once she gets home. Almost immediately, she finds herself being followed and watched by a guy named Mouse Trap among others, and once again, without waiting for the police to take action, Abby begins to investigate on her own. As normal, Abby stumbles and bumbles along, nearly gets killed, looses her cat to a catnapper, and only solves the mystery when the principles confess. While all of this is happening Abby manages to alienate all of her friends but CJ whom she sets up with a policeman who is, like CJ, from Shelby and who tells the same kind of scatterbrained stories.<br /><br />Tamar Myers has a great talent for writing and for creating a wonderful set of characters. The mysteries are seldom the central focus of the plot but the story is so much fun that I seldom care. This book, like the previous ones in the series is great fun and often laugh out loud funny. No, this is not a deep scintillating mystery but it was never meant to be. It was meant to be a warm fuzzy mystery that is a load of fun, and that is exactly what it is.for the police to take action, Abby begins to investigate on her own. As normal, Abby stumbles and bumbles along, nearly gets killed, looses her cat to a catnapper, and only solves the mystery when the principles confess. While all of this is happening Abby manages to alienate all of her friends but CJ whom she sets up with a policeman who is, like CJ, from Shelby and who tells the same kind of scatterbrained stories.  <br /> <br />Tamar Myers has a great talent for writing and for creating a wonderful set of characters. The mysteries are seldom the central focus of the plot but the story is so much fun that I seldom care. This book, like the previous ones in the series is great fun and often laugh out loud funny. No, this is not a deep scintillating mystery but it was never meant to be. It was meant to be a warm fuzzy mystery that is a load of fun, and that is exactly what it is.	2005-06-27
US	51167656	R2RZJG3XXN9R2Z	0451187717	306316700	A Deadly Judgment (Murder She Wrote)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Battling Baked Bean Brothers	One of the most frequent criticisms directed at the books in this series is that the characters tend to be shallow. I have to agree that this is often the case but after all these are warm fuzzy mysteries and aren't expected to rival \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" with their literary quality. That being the case, I don't often take umbrage and get all upset about one-dimensional characters. I just read the books and enjoy them for what they are.<br /><br />This installment in the series however, takes one-dimensional characters to a new level, especially when it comes to attorney Malcolm McLoon. Other than Jessica, McLoon is the main character in this book and he is a walking stereotype. Even his final bow out of the story is an insensitive stereotype. McLoon could have been a very fun and enjoyable character but Mr. Bain decided to take the easy way out and therefore blew a golden opportunity.<br /><br />Other than the almost but not quite lovable McLoon, this is a very interesting mystery. One that because of the trial setting is different than any of the other books in the series. The basic plot revolves around a family of baked bean magnets and the trial of one member of the family for the murder of his brother. Jessica becomes involved when McLoon asks her to serve on the defense team, more for the publicity she will draw to the case than anything else.  Of course the swaggering attorney gets more than he bargained for and soon Jessica is on the trail of the killer.<br /><br />As she sorts through the clues, Jessica once again puts herself in danger while attempting to unravel the tangled mess that she finds. Along the way, she deals with three more deaths that are connected to the original crime, a couple of scheming women, a jealous lover and an amorous society gentleman. She even manages to set Seth up on with date.<br /><br />In the end of course, Jessica solves the mystery, or in this case mysteries and heads back to Cabot Cove. As is usual in these books though, she solves the mystery by having certain knowledge that is not available to the reader, so don't plan on fingering the guilty party yourself. Still, despite the stereotypical nature of one of the main characters and the unfair withholding of information, I enjoyed this book. It is probably not the best book in the series but it is definitely worth reading.ks though, she solves the mystery by having certain knowledge that is not available to the reader, so don't plan on fingering the guilty party yourself. Still, despite the stereotypical nature of one of the main characters and the unfair withholding of information, I enjoyed this book. It is probably not the best book in the series but it is definitely worth reading.	2005-06-24
US	51167656	R1M9MKLKOPZJI7	042518384X	725415548	Death at Epsom Downs (A Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Horse is a Horse of Course of Course	As this series has now reached it's sixth installment the personalities and backgrounds of the major characters have been set and explained in previous books. To jump in with this book will leave the reader somewhat lost as to what is going on and I would highly recommend that this series be started from the beginning. Some of these light mystery series' allow the reader the luxury of jumping on board at just any stop but that is not the case here. I think that you will find this book enjoyable even if you haven't read the previous books, but you will enjoy it much more if you start at the beginning.<br /><br />One of the most noticeable traits of this series is the use of real historical characters in the stories. His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales heavily influences this story, like at least two before it. The story seems to revolve however, around the actress Lillie Langtry. A mediocre actress, Ms. Langtry would probably have never have been remembered by history if not for her dalliances with the above mentioned Prince. Although being the one true love of Judge Roy Bean, the \\"Only Law West of the Pecos\\" might have kept her name alive also. Judge Bean by the way, never met Langtry but he named his saloon after her.<br /><br />Langtry is a rather despicable character whom Kate visits while Charles is called on to solve a problem for the Jockey Club, which counts the Prince as one of it's members. The club is desperate to solve it's little problem without any publicity, especially after one of the area's leading bookies is murdered. It all seems to relate to the practice of doping horses before races which completely alters the odds and is costing the bookies a fortune. As is normal, Charles begins to find clues almost immediately and with the help of his sleuthing wife they are able to name the killer in short order. It is refreshing that in this case Kate's personal maid Amelia turns out to be quite the detective herself.  In the end, the Prince steps in and Kate, not quite yet understanding English ways is unhappy with the result, at least until she sees royal justice in action.<br /><br />This is another fine entry in the \\"Victorian Mystery\\" series and the horse racing background is fascinating. Like I mentioned earlier, the characters may seem flat or confusing if this is the first book in the series that you have read but the story is so engaging and the writing so polished that I think that most people would enjoy this story anyway. So grab a parasol, pick a horse and let's enjoy the races at Epsom Downs.and Kate, not quite yet understanding English ways is unhappy with the result, at least until she sees royal justice in action. <br /> <br />This is another fine entry in the \\"Victorian Mystery\\" series and the horse racing background is fascinating. Like I mentioned earlier, the characters may seem flat or confusing if this is the first book in the series that you have read but the story is so engaging and the writing so polished that I think that most people would enjoy this story anyway. So grab a parasol, pick a horse and let's enjoy the races at Epsom Downs.	2005-06-21
US	51167656	R3RGRTODXMO53O	0515107867	586234676	The Cat Who Knew a Cardinal	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Henry VIII does Moose County	The 12th book of this series starts with Qwilleran settled into his new home, an old apple barn that has been restored and turned into living quarters. The upper beams are about forty feet above the ground and the cats are in seventh heaven. Qwilleran's other project, building a community theater, has also been completed and a successful run of \\"Henry VIII\\" has just finished. When the director, school principal Hilary VanBrook had proposed this play nobody thought it would fly, but the unpopular director had pulled it off in high fashion.<br /><br />Following the final performance the cast and crew descended on Qwilleran's barn for the cast party. As was normal, the much-maligned VanBrook kept pretty much to himself but for some reason Koko found him very interesting. Once the party guests had all departed, Koko called Qwilleran's attention to a single car that was still outside. Going out to investigate, Qwilleran found a body with a very fresh gunshot wound inside the abandoned car. Determined to mind his own business this time the former reporter called the police and tried to stay out of the investigation. Koko however would have none of that and started leaving clues.<br /><br />Despite Koko's clues however, Qwilleran continued his hands off approach except for sniffing around the victim's house looking for an old book. Finally though, Qwilleran gave in and started to sniff around because a friend of his was being falsely accused of the crime. This time our amateur sleuth solves the mystery on his own, not picking up on Koko's clues until it was all over. Yum Yum actually provides the most important clue, although completely by accident and once again the cats rush in to save the day when Qwilleran gets into deep trouble.<br /><br />Along the road to solving this murder Qwilleran runs into several sub-plots that add a great deal to the story. There is a suicide that may or may not be connected to the murder, a cat beauty pageant that turns into a riot and a horse race down in Lockmaster. On top of everything else, Qwilleran and Polly seem to be on the outs and Qwilleran is sure that the librarian has a new love interest.<br /><br />Like the previous books in this series, this book is filled with quirky and fun characters and features the wonderful backdrop of Moose County. The interaction between the characters is cleaver and imaginative and the cats are superbly portrayed. I am also happy to report that the mystery, while not always the center of the plot, is interesting and it is solvable. The clues are all there and if the reader pays close attention he/she can solve the mystery before Qwilleran.<br /><br />On the negative side, there are some questions involving the victim that are never answered. Maybe however, these questions will be answered in a future book because Qwilleran is thinking about doing a biography of the deceased. Given what he has already found out he just might have a best seller on his hands.nd a horse race down in Lockmaster. On top of everything else, Qwilleran and Polly seem to be on the outs and Qwilleran is sure that the librarian has a new love interest. <br /> <br />Like the previous books in this series, this book is filled with quirky and fun characters and features the wonderful backdrop of Moose County. The interaction between the characters is cleaver and imaginative and the cats are superbly portrayed. I am also happy to report that the mystery, while not always the center of the plot, is interesting and it is solvable. The clues are all there and if the reader pays close attention he/she can solve the mystery before Qwilleran.  <br /> <br />On the negative side, there are some questions involving the victim that are never answered. Maybe however, these questions will be answered in a future book because Qwilleran is thinking about doing a biography of the deceased. Given what he has already found out he just might have a best seller on his hands.	2005-06-18
US	51167656	R1EJ04D7JDB4X1	1402731728	690226706	Holy Father: Pope Benedict XVI: Pontiff for a New Era	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Shallow but Somewhat Helpful	There is at the present time a mad rush to publish new material about the new Holy Father, and the rush is bound to lead to mistakes and sloppy research and editing. That is unfortunately the case with this book by Greg Tobin. There are several historical mistakes to be found in this book along with some typographical errors and even one questionable doctrinal statement. It would have helped this book a great deal if the publisher had taken a little more time with it and had allowed the editors to do a better job.<br /><br />This is not to say that this is a truly bad book however. There are several good things about this book, not the least of which is it's readability and length which allows the casual reader to gain at least some knowledge concerning our current Holy Father. I say some knowledge because while this book appears at first glance to be a biography, only about half of the text deals with the life of Benedict XVI. The first fifty or so pages deal with the history of the Papacy and do so in a very abbreviated manner. Still, it is a pretty good history that will give the reader a general overview of the Church's past. The next section of about seventy pages deals with the life of the Pontiff up until his election and does so in a credible although brief manner. Included is a very frank look at the activities of the Ratzinger family during WWII. The final section of the book deals with the problems that the Church and it's new leader will have to face over the next few years.<br /><br />Although short, this book does touch on some important points and gives a clear analysis of what to expect from Benedict XVI. Tobin, much to his credit, points out that while the media in America has focused on the negative reaction of liberal American Catholics to this Pope's election, there are a sizable number of Catholics in the United Sates who are quite pleased with the new Pope. The author also makes some good observations concerning Cardinal Ratzinger's remarks just before the Conclave and the remarks of Pope Benedict just after his election.<br /><br />I am quite sure that there will be better biographies of the Holy Father on the market in the near future, but I am also pretty sure there will also be some that are worse. If you are looking for a basic and short overview of Pope Benedict's life so far, this book would not be a bad choice. If, on the other hand you are looking for an in depth and error free biography, my advice is for you to wait just a little while longer. After all, Rome wasn't built in a day and neither is a good biography written in a month.just before the Conclave and the remarks of Pope Benedict just after his election. <br /> <br />I am quite sure that there will be better biographies of the Holy Father on the market in the near future, but I am also pretty sure there will also be some that are worse. If you are looking for a basic and short overview of Pope Benedict's life so far, this book would not be a bad choice. If, on the other hand you are looking for an in depth and error free biography, my advice is for you to wait just a little while longer. After all, Rome wasn't built in a day and neither is a good biography written in a month.	2005-06-15
US	51167656	RAVDGEKF93VNA	0380802252	997158948	Baroque and Desperate (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Flora the Floozy Found Fricasseed	I have become quite fond of the books in this series and was especially fond of this one if for no other reason than the setting. Although Abigail Timberlake, the heroine of the series, resides in Charlotte North Carolina, this story is set in the lovely town of Georgetown South Carolina. Just last week my family and I visited this charming little town and the author's description of places that I had just been to may have colored my opinion a little, but I really liked this book.<br /><br />The problems that exist in the previous books in this series are still evident here but after a while one gets used to them. Abigail is still overly abrasive and despite her best efforts the mystery is only solved when the killer makes an out of the blue confession. There are also far too many descriptions of Abigail's friend CJ that form some variation of \\"she is a few bricks short of a load.\\" About one more of those little sayings and I think that I would have screamed.<br /><br />The whole story begins when Abby returns home from a cruise and finds that burglars have literally cleaned out her antique shop.  The had even taken the phone jack and swept the floor, leaving nothing but some markings on a wall in which Abby's mother sees an angel. At the height of her despair, a man she had met on the plane ride back to Charlotte shows up and asks her to spend the weekend helping him with a scavenger hunt at his grandmother's plantation just outside of Georgetown. Since her daughter Susan had forgot to mail the premium check to the insurance company causing the cancellation of her policy, Abby had nothing to loose and accepted the invitation which had been extended to cover her friend CJ.<br /><br />Arriving at the plantain, they found a family that could be the poster children for dysfunctional families. They were for the most part, just sitting around waiting for the family matriarch to die so that they could get their hands on her money. On top of that, most of the males in the family were sleeping with the maid who turns up murdered. For some reason that Abby can't fathom, CJ confesses to the crime and is taken to jail even though the Sheriff knows that she didn't really do it. It is CJ's arrest that puts Abby on the trail of the killer and as usual she bumbles and stumbles along until the killer for no good reason confesses. As in the previous books in this series, Abby gets herself into grave danger but unlike the other times she escapes her attacker in this book by using her wits. In the previous books it was mostly just pure dumb luck that saved her.<br /><br />This book is not quite as laugh out loud funny as some of the previous installments in the series but Abby's mother is still a hoot as she sets up a Shrine in Abby's empty shop. CJ and her stories about her family are also hilarious, especially the one about her cousin that makes dentures from pig's teeth. The writing is warm and conversational and best of all, all of the clues are there for the reader to figure out the mystery before the ever-looming confession rolls around. In short, this is a nice warm fuzzy book that is a pleasure to read despite the shallow nature of the mystery itself. Reading these books is a worthwhile endeavor if for no other reason than to find out what Abby's mother does next.family were sleeping with the maid who turns up murdered. For some reason that Abby can't fathom, CJ confesses to the crime and is taken to jail even though the Sheriff knows that she didn't really do it. It is CJ's arrest that puts Abby on the trail of the killer and as usual she bumbles and stumbles along until the killer for no good reason confesses. As in the previous books in this series, Abby gets herself into grave danger but unlike the other times she escapes her attacker in this book by using her wits. In the previous books it was mostly just pure dumb luck that saved her.<br /><br />This book is not quite as laugh out loud funny as some of the previous installments in the series but Abby's mother is still a hoot as she sets up a Shrine in Abby's empty shop. CJ and her stories about her family are also hilarious, especially the one about her cousin that makes dentures from pig's teeth. The writing is warm and conversational and best of all, all of the clues are there for the reader to figure out the mystery before the ever-looming confession rolls around. In short, this is a nice warm fuzzy book that is a pleasure to read despite the shallow nature of the mystery itself. Reading these books is a worthwhile endeavor if for no other reason than to find out what Abby's mother does next.	2005-06-12
US	51167656	R3PGOW6A0C38U	0451194772	853819334	Knock 'em Dead: A Murder, She Wrote Mystery	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Jessica the Broadway Babe	Jessica Fletcher the mystery writer is a great fan of live theater but has never had one of her books made into a Broadway play. Finally however, her book \\"Knock 'Em Dead\\" will be brought to life on the Great White Way. The Cabot Cove locals are thrilled for her but are also worried about her because there is a serial killer loose on Broadway and he or she is targeting theaters.<br /><br />As the play comes together Jessica meets many new people, some of whom she becomes quite fond. Before too long however there is a murder in the very theater where her play is being put together and worse yet the victim is the play's producer. Needless to say, Jessica discovers the body and by the MO the killing looks like the work of the serial killer. Absolute chaos follows and it looks for a while like Jessica's play may never hit the stage. To make matters even more convoluted; most of the people involved with the production couldn't stand the dead producer so if it wasn't the work of the serial killer the list of suspects is almost endless.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book but of the books in this series that I have read, it is probably my least favorite entry. First of all, there is what seems like dozens of new characters introduced in this book, very few of which are fleshed out at all.  I found myself having to stop reading so that I could try to remember just who this person who had just shown back up was on numerous occasions and having to do that can ruin the flow of a good story in no time flat. Jessica also comes across as just a tad too uptight and closed minded in this story and always seems to be offended at one thing or another. This is the case in some of the other books as well but it seems to be a little more pronounced in this story. She does however show a very kind and sweet side when dealing with the bodyguard that Sheriff Metzger sent down from Maine. Finally, the ending just didn't do anything at all for me. It seemed about as dramatic as a snail race and left me with no real closure at all. A good mystery book needs to give the reader this closure and this ending falls far short of that goal. On the other hand, the tension is built up quite well as the end approaches, so well in fact that the book's success at tension building may have added to the let down I felt when I reached the end.<br /><br />I must admit that I like the stories that are set in Cabot Cove much more than the ones like this that follow Jessica's travels and that may have colored my attitude but I don't really think so.  There are some very good and exciting passages in this book and it is by no means a book that you should avoid. This is just not my favorite entry in a series of which I am very fond.and left me with no real closure at all. A good mystery book needs to give the reader this closure and this ending falls far short of that goal. On the other hand, the tension is built up quite well as the end approaches, so well in fact that the book's success at tension building may have added to the let down I felt when I reached the end.  <br /> <br />I must admit that I like the stories that are set in Cabot Cove much more than the ones like this that follow Jessica's travels and that may have colored my attitude but I don't really think so.  There are some very good and exciting passages in this book and it is by no means a book that you should avoid. This is just not my favorite entry in a series of which I am very fond.	2005-06-09
US	51167656	RGMCWIX95KABG	0425173410	192182666	Death at Whitechapel (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 6)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Blackmailer Flies With the Pigeons	The husband and wife team who write under the name of Robin Paige have been very successful at weaving real historical characters into this series. The additions of people like Rudyard Kipling into their stories have helped to make lively and interesting mysteries into superb mysteries. On this occasion however, the authors seem to have overreached. In the previous books of this series some of the people were real but the crimes were purely fictional. In this book however, Lord and Lady Sheridan were on the trail of the all too real Jack the Ripper. Unfortunately the authors took a detour down a path paved with a ridiculous theory based on a conspiracy that supposedly reached to the highest levels of the British government. The theory that they allowed themselves to be taken in by has been thoroughly dismissed by all reputable historians and makes assumptions about Masonic ritual that have no basis in fact. Furthermore, this idea of a vast conspiracy was apparently given birth because of the rantings of the artist Walter Sickert whose personality itself is enough to give pause to anyone who would take his word at face value. In fact, Patricia Cornwell in a recent book has made a fairly convincing argument that Sickert himself was Jack the Ripper.<br /><br />Aside from their sad attempt at solving a real crime, the authors have done another wonderful job of bringing Victorian England to life. While reading this book one can almost feel the damp fog and smell the burning coal. Add to that the presence of Jennie Churchill and her son Winston and one almost has to start humming \\"God Save the Queen.\\"<br /><br />There is of course a fictional mystery to be solved and it grows out of the above-mentioned Ripper theory. This mystery involves blackmail and eventually a murder where the victim very appropriately falls face first into a meat pie. It is Lady Churchill who is being blackmailed and she is beside herself because of the damage the accusation in question could do to her son's career. A career that he is just ready to launch if he can come up with a thousand pounds to pay off the managers of the Tory Party. To add a little more seasoning to the pot, Mrs. Pratt's late husband show up at Bishop's Keep and starts making demands of his wife.<br /><br />Except for the faulty premise on which much of this book is based and for which a rating deduction must be made, this is another winning entry in this series. This is a fun book to read and the writing is clear, crisp and wonderfully descriptive. The characters are well thought out and are presented in a very engaging manner that gives the reader the impression that they really know these people. With that in mind I must say that I was a little disappointed to find that some of the staff at Bishop's Keep had left for other jobs. If the authors are going to make their readers care for their characters the least they could do is keep them in the story.do to her son's career. A career that he is just ready to launch if he can come up with a thousand pounds to pay off the managers of the Tory Party. To add a little more seasoning to the pot, Mrs. Pratt's late husband show up at Bishop's Keep and starts making demands of his wife.  <br /> <br />Except for the faulty premise on which much of this book is based and for which a rating deduction must be made, this is another winning entry in this series. This is a fun book to read and the writing is clear, crisp and wonderfully descriptive. The characters are well thought out and are presented in a very engaging manner that gives the reader the impression that they really know these people. With that in mind I must say that I was a little disappointed to find that some of the staff at Bishop's Keep had left for other jobs. If the authors are going to make their readers care for their characters the least they could do is keep them in the story.	2005-06-06
US	51167656	R3GMRQWP5GAJZD	051510566X	466934211	The Cat Who Lived High	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Koko Plays Scrabble	The eleventh book of this series finds Jim Qwilleran packing for a trip Down Below, much to the dismay and worry of his fellow residents of Moose County. One of the Three Weird Sisters, whom we met in a previous book, has called him up and urged him to look into saving an old building in Junktown that is about to be demolished. The cats are none too happy about the trip but Qwilleran is eager to check out his old stomping ground and also to avoid the Moose County winter.<br /><br />He arrives back in Junktown to find an old rundown building that looks like a big refrigerator and as he carries the cats up to his apartment on the fourteenth floor the elevator stops. This time he is just as unhappy as the cats. He finds himself lodged in an elegant apartment that was recently the scene of a murder, a fact that Koko discovers. As usual in this series, Koko makes most of the discoveries and then spends a great deal of time trying to communicate his discoveries to Qwilleran. In this book Koko even takes up Scrabble to try and get his message across. One very nice thing about this book is that you don't get attached to the deceased because by the time the story starts, she is already dead. I'm still not over Iris Cobb's death.<br /><br />For fans of the series this book will bring back some memorable characters from previous books including Mary Duckworth of Junktown and Robert Maus and Charlotte Roop of the Maus House. It is great fun to go back and see what has happened in these people's lives since we last encountered them and to find out what they are up to now. Prim and proper Charlotte for example, has a man and is a changed woman. There are also some neat new characters like Mrs. Tuttle, Mr. Rupert, the Countess and Isabelle Wilburton who gives Qwilleran a flashing he will never forget. The characters and the atmosphere are indeed the major part of the story because the mystery is even more submerged than normal, but the clues are there if you just pay attention to Koko.<br /><br />This is not the best book in the series so far but it is very enjoyable. Unlike some other reviewers, I miss the folks in Moose County but it was a real pleasure to visit some old friends. It was a nice change of pace but I'm ready to get back to Pickax City.Koko.<br /><br />This is not the best book in the series so far but it is very enjoyable. Unlike some other reviewers, I miss the folks in Moose County but it was a real pleasure to visit some old friends. It was a nice change of pace but I'm ready to get back to Pickax City.	2005-05-27
US	51167656	RCEKEHF79ENG3	1891799061	176468555	In the Realm of Ghosts and Hauntings	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Spirited Little Book	When it comes to books that deal with ghosts there are basically two kinds of authors. The first type goes out into the field, investigates the site and talks to witnesses. The second type relies almost exclusively on secondary sources and simply retells the story, sometimes putting his new version together by reading several other works on the haunting in question. This book and author fall decidedly in the second category. I would say that this book comes exclusively from the second category but there are a few stories written in a way that makes it seem as if the author may have done a few interviews on his own. The stories are also very superficial in this book with forty-nine stories crammed into one hundred and eighty-three pages. With an average length of less that four pages per story there just isn't much room for an in depth study of the case being discussed.<br /><br />This book is further plagued by typographical errors which admittedly are not the fault of the author but are nevertheless distracting and should be corrected in future editions. There are also some historical errors, most notably the dates of the Truman Presidency. Again, this is not a fatal error but these types of mistakes tend to make the reader cast a wary eye on all of the information in such a book.<br /><br />All of that said, I must admit that I found this to be a very enjoyable little book. Normally these secondary retellings of other people's work turn me completely off but for some reason I liked this book. I can't put my finger quite on the reason but I found that I enjoyed this book very much. It may have been the author's writing style, which I found to be very engaging and pleasant. It may have been the excellent mix of locations, which covered much of the United States and England. Or it may have been that the author just has an innate ability to spin a good ghost yarn.  Whatever the reason, this book which is of a type that normally sends me into yawning fits kept my interest and even seemed to shed some new light on many stories that I had read about many times before.<br /><br />I can't really recommend this book for the serious ghost story aficionado who is searching for new investigations into various hauntings for there is little or none of that to be found in this work. I can however say that this is a marvelous book for reading while all alone on a stormy evening. Just make sure that you have some candles ready in case of a power failure for I don't really think you will relish a night in the dark after taking this journey with Mr. Floyd.interest and even seemed to shed some new light on many stories that I had read about many times before.  <br /> <br />I can't really recommend this book for the serious ghost story aficionado who is searching for new investigations into various hauntings for there is little or none of that to be found in this work. I can however say that this is a marvelous book for reading while all alone on a stormy evening. Just make sure that you have some candles ready in case of a power failure for I don't really think you will relish a night in the dark after taking this journey with Mr. Floyd.	2005-05-26
US	51167656	R2U95EZXWB210I	0380792540	790158358	So Faux, So Good (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Purnell Purvis Pushes up Posies	As in the previous books in this series there is a mystery to be solved and Abigail Timberlake can't wait around for the police to do their work so she begins to sniff around. This time however, the crime that starts her sleuthing is fraud and not murder, although there are eventually a couple of murders just for good measure. Abigail first finds that there is a possibility that she has been the victim of fraud when her mother drops by with a present for her. In the last book Abigail's mother wanted a tattoo on her fanny while in this book she has decided to become and Episcopal nun. I didn't even know Episcopalians had nuns but that is beside the point. Abigail's mother is one of the more delightful characters ever created for this kind of fluffy mystery series and it is characters like her that make this book and the series worthwhile. There is also Wynnell who blames all misfortunes on the Yankees, the Rob-Bobs, partners both at work and at home even though they agree on nothing, and CJ who has a story for every situation. Taken altogether they make quite a cast.<br /><br />Abigail, as in previous books is just a little too confrontational but I am beginning to get used to that. The plot in this book was a little more discombobulated than normal but I was able to overlook that. I was even able to forgive the fact that the spelling of Tweetie Byrd had changed to Bird in this book although I am something of a stickler for such small details. I just was not able to completely forgive the ending however. There were just absolutely no clues as to the solution; it just came flapping into view right out of nowhere. There wasn't the first clue to be found previous to the criminal mastermind's confession and if it weren't for the confession, our heroine would have never solved the mystery. There was also no reason for the confession because Abigail was as ignorant of the facts as I was.<br /><br />Its not that this book isn't fun to read, because it is. The characters that the author has created go a long way toward making up for the ending and the disjointed plot although the setting of this book is for the most part in Pennsylvania instead of the usual Carolina background, and the secondary characters are much darker than usual.  Abigail's cat Dmitri does however play a larger role in this book than in the past and his appearances always seem to lighten the mood. If you are a fan of this series you will most likely enjoy this book, although not as much as some of it's predecessors. If, on the other hand you have never read a book from this series do not start with this one. So far, this is definitely the black sheep of the Antiquity family.that the author has created go a long way toward making up for the ending and the disjointed plot although the setting of this book is for the most part in Pennsylvania instead of the usual Carolina background, and the secondary characters are much darker than usual.  Abigail's cat Dmitri does however play a larger role in this book than in the past and his appearances always seem to lighten the mood. If you are a fan of this series you will most likely enjoy this book, although not as much as some of it's predecessors. If, on the other hand you have never read a book from this series do not start with this one. So far, this is definitely the black sheep of the Antiquity family.	2005-05-25
US	51167656	R1SAQKSU8YTC1F	0451192915	153649663	Murder on the QE2: Murder She Wrote	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Murder Most Naked	Jessica Fletcher the world renowned mystery writer is invited to be part of a group of celebrity lecturers during a Trans-Atlantic crossing of the QE2. Her fellow celebrities include an elderly fitness freak who climbs mountains, an erratic Italian chef, a very odd woman who does a TV show about plants and an obnoxious actress. Also on board are a lovable little lady from North Carolina who won a mystery solving contest and the wealthy owner of a major TV network. Jessica immediately hits it off with Mary Ward, the little lady from Carolina and as they take a morning walk together on one of the decks, Mary notices a foot sticking out of a lifeboat. It turns out that the foot in question is attached to the dead naked body of one of the celebrity guests. With Mary acting as her Watson, Jessica starts to snoop and while on the trail of the killer (s) these dainty detectives make several astonishing discoveries.<br /><br />The characters in this book are an excellent collection of personalities and they make the story all the more interesting. The story itself flows wonderfully along and draws the reader in as it goes, and knowing that the killer (s) is/are trapped on board with Jessica and Mary just adds to the suspense. This is in fact one of, if not the best plot I have yet to come upon in this series. Unlike some of the other books featuring Mrs. Fletcher, the clues are for the most part provided for the reader and if you pay close attention you can figure out \\"who done it\\" before Jessica tells you. Like Truman Capote in the film \\"Murder by Death\\" I just hate it when the reader isn't given all of the clues that the sleuth has until the very end.<br /><br />Another very appealing aspect of this book is the setting. The QE2 is obviously a legendary ocean liner with a storied past and all of that history and atmosphere just oozes out of every page. The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra even puts in an appearance, just to add to the nostalgic setting. Best of all however is Jessica herself, for this is the Jessica Fletcher we have come to love on the TV series. In some of the other books Jessica does not come across very well but is testy, easily offended and has a very closed mind. This book brings back Jessica as she was meant to be and the way she should be.<br /><br />This is indeed a page-turner with the plot taking all sorts of twists and turns and with several red herrings being thrown in for good measure. There is also champagne and caviar but the red herrings are far more interesting and tasty. Of course you have to be careful what you eat on this voyage because the sea is rough and there also might just be a little poison hiding somewhere in the food.Jessica herself, for this is the Jessica Fletcher we have come to love on the TV series. In some of the other books Jessica does not come across very well but is testy, easily offended and has a very closed mind. This book brings back Jessica as she was meant to be and the way she should be.  <br /> <br />This is indeed a page-turner with the plot taking all sorts of twists and turns and with several red herrings being thrown in for good measure. There is also champagne and caviar but the red herrings are far more interesting and tasty. Of course you have to be careful what you eat on this voyage because the sea is rough and there also might just be a little poison hiding somewhere in the food.	2005-05-24
US	51167656	R1RYEEG64V749C	0425167828	821522544	Death at Rottingdean	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Do you like Kipling? I don't know, I've never Kippled.	At the end of the last book of this series, Sir Charles and his wife Kate were happily residing at Kate's ancestral home at Bishop's Keep. In the interval between that book and this one, Sir Charles' brother has died and the couple is now Lord and Lady Sheridan. Being the fifth Baron of Somersworth has placed a great deal of added responsibility on the couple's shoulders not the least of which is Lord Charles' seat in the House of Lords. While in London, the pregnant Kate ventures into the slums to aid in the care of the sick and becomes sick herself. Not only does Kate almost die but she also faces a far different future based on the permanent physical damage caused by the disease. Her feelings about this change in circumstances are bottled up inside as are the feelings of her husband and this background story ends up playing a large role in the plot as a whole.<br /><br />Lord Charles has promised Kate a holiday away from London where they can spend time together like they did before Charles inherited all of these new responsibilities. They head for Rottingdean, a little village on the Channel taking along only Amelia and Lawrence, their two most valued servants. They arrive just after the body of a Coast Guard has washed up on the beach, a death the local constable writes off as a suicide. Soon another Coast Guard is found shot and by a gun the likes of which Charles has never seen. Unfortunately for Charles, he is at a party with the Crown Prince when news of the second death arrives. Remembering the bang up job Charles had done in a previous investigation that saved the Crown a great deal of embarrassment, His Royal Highness put Lord Charles in charge of the case. So much for their quite holiday!<br /><br />Charles and Kate are soon hard at work and slowly they begin to uncover what seems to be a vast conspiracy. A conspiracy that at face value doesn't make any sense at all. They are aided immensely by a local boy named Patrick who knows far more than he is willing to tell at first. He is after all quite fond of some of the people who are very deeply involved in the conspiracy. I have a feeling that we will see more of Patrick in future books.<br /><br />Besides the Prince, the other historical figure who shows up in this book is the famous author Rudyard Kipling, who also aids the investigation a great deal. The appearance of these real people in this series adds a greatly to the stories as does the very realistic atmosphere. The authors are to be commended for their skill in story telling and their willingness to do a lot of research to make everything so believable. These stories are so realistic that while reading a previous book in which the characters must have drank gallons of tea, I started craving tea and had to break out the Earl Gray. In this book they drank lemonade and I ended up sending to the store for some of that. It takes a very talented storyteller to take a reader that deeply into a story. This is just a marvelously fun and suspenseful book that will keep you glued to it's pages from beginning to end.first. He is after all quite fond of some of the people who are very deeply involved in the conspiracy. I have a feeling that we will see more of Patrick in future books.    Besides the Prince, the other historical figure who shows up in this book is the famous author Rudyard Kipling, who also aids the investigation a great deal. The appearance of these real people in this series adds a greatly to the stories as does the very realistic atmosphere. The authors are to be commended for their skill in story telling and their willingness to do a lot of research to make everything so believable. These stories are so realistic that while reading a previous book in which the characters must have drank gallons of tea, I started craving tea and had to break out the Earl Gray. In this book they drank lemonade and I ended up sending to the store for some of that. It takes a very talented storyteller to take a reader that deeply into a story. This is just a marvelously fun and suspenseful book that will keep you glued to it's pages from beginning to end.	2005-05-23
US	51167656	R2KXIE78OJ7LNO	0515102652	466934211	The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts (The Cat Who...)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Goat Cheese Anyone?	Lilian Jackson Braun's tenth cat book starts off with the death of one of the most beloved long-time characters in the series. It is quite a testament to Braun's writing ability that I felt so saddened by this person's death and I was indeed quite upset. It is not clear early on if this death is a murder or a simple heart attack but as usual, Qwilleran is suspicious. Braun has the ability to make her readers feel as if they know the people of Moose County and have lived there for years and this is what is so endearing about this series. This story also starts out with Qwilleran telling the story in the first person which is a new twist and fortunately one that just sort of melts away early in the book.<br /><br />As in previous stories the mystery is mostly a background for another tale of Moose County but this time there are only two deaths to deal with. Among the more memorable characters to wander in and out of this story are ninety-four year old Homer Tibbitt and his slightly younger girlfriend Rhoda, who refuses to get her hearing aide fixed. One of their conversations culminates with Homer yelling at Rhoda, \\"I said potties-not poppies!\\" This conversation sent me into fits of laughter and is typical of Braun's wonderful writing style.<br /><br />Like all small rural communities, Moose County has it's secrets, one of which Qwilleran uncovers while puzzling over his friend's death. It turns out that one of the area's most famous incidents was all a fake and that at least one Moose County resident had lived long past his funeral. A secret that in the end will remain locked away in Qwilleran's mind and in the secret compartment of a Dingleberry desk.<br /><br />As is the case in most of these books, Koko tries to give Qwilleran clues but time and again the former reporter looks over the hints. Once the mystery is solved however, Qwilleran realizes once again that his highly intelligent feline has had things figured out for quite some time. If only Qwilleran could warm up to his girlfriend's new cat, who he refers to as Bigfoot, as quickly as he warmed up to the goat farmer next door. This tenth trip into the wild and wonderful world of Jim Qwilleran is a journey well worth taking, even if there is more Moose than mystery.arm up to his girlfriend's new cat, who he refers to as Bigfoot, as quickly as he warmed up to the goat farmer next door. This tenth trip into the wild and wonderful world of Jim Qwilleran is a journey well worth taking, even if there is more Moose than mystery.	2005-05-22
US	51167656	R1MM78IPTQD9RO	0385028695	719606329	Our Lady of Fatima	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Holy Mary, Mother of God, Pray for Us	Between May and October of 1917 the Blessed Virgin appeared to three children at Cova da Iria near Fatima, Portugal. The oldest of the children, Lucia Abobora was only ten years old at the time but had the wisdom of someone much older and instructed her younger cousins Francisco and Jacinta Martos that they should tell no one of their experience. Young Jacinta however decided to tell about their visitor and this led to much ridicule and persecution for the three young mystics. Our Lady had told them they would suffer greatly and that they should offer up their suffering for all of the sinners of the world. The fact that they were helping to save sinners by their suffering gave these children much comfort in their sufferings and this was especially true of Francisco and Jacinta since Mother Mary had informed them that she would take them to heaven soon. In less than three years both of these children were dead.<br /><br />The Church was, as is prudent, slow to accept the miracle at Fatima but has now fully accepted what happened there and millions of Catholics have an extra prayer at the end of each decade of the Rosary because of it. Those who refuse to believe in miracles still can't fully explain the actions of the Sun during the Virgin's last visit in October 1917 that was witnessed by over 70,000 people at the site and hundreds of others who were miles away from Cova da Iria. It is especially interesting to note that Socialist newspaper men who were there in order to inform their readers that the whole thing was a hoax had to admit that they had seen the miracle also.<br /><br />William Walsh first published this book in 1947 after extensive interviews with the surviving child and others that were involved. He also made careful study of Lucia Abobora's journals of the events that she had written well after the fact at the insistence of a Bishop. This careful research and the interviews along with many visits to the sight of the visitation have enabled the author to write what still may be the best book available on the subject. The writing is a little lax grammatically at times but more than makes up for that with style. This is a very easy to read and clear account of the events at Fatima and even someone with no Catholic background at all will be able to follow the story with no problem. Even those who refuse to believe will I think find this book enjoyable and will if nothing else be able to see the life of early twentieth century Portuguese peasants as they lived through the upheavals going on all around them.<br /><br />Since this story continues to unfold this book does show it's age to some extent For example, the secret the children would not tell to anyone has long since been revealed. Also, since the death of the last child only this past February, the Vatican has sealed her cell (she became a nun) and a team of investigators will be going through her papers to see what else might be revealed. There may indeed be much more of this story to be told and the events of Fatima still cause controversy so this book is over fifty years behind, but for a basic understanding of the appearance of Our Lady of Fatima this book is hard to beat. I seriously doubt that a better basic account will ever be written.thor to write what still may be the best book available on the subject. The writing is a little lax grammatically at times but more than makes up for that with style. This is a very easy to read and clear account of the events at Fatima and even someone with no Catholic background at all will be able to follow the story with no problem. Even those who refuse to believe will I think find this book enjoyable and will if nothing else be able to see the life of early twentieth century Portuguese peasants as they lived through the upheavals going on all around them.  <br /> <br />Since this story continues to unfold this book does show it's age to some extent For example, the secret the children would not tell to anyone has long since been revealed. Also, since the death of the last child only this past February, the Vatican has sealed her cell (she became a nun) and a team of investigators will be going through her papers to see what else might be revealed. There may indeed be much more of this story to be told and the events of Fatima still cause controversy so this book is over fifty years behind, but for a basic understanding of the appearance of Our Lady of Fatima this book is hard to beat. I seriously doubt that a better basic account will ever be written.	2005-05-21
US	51167656	R23PU5KQQ7WGLP	0380792559	910985544	The Ming and I (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mozella Wiggins Goes Cow Tipping	Mozella doesn't actually go cow tipping but she wants to. She also wants to get a tattoo on her fanny, one that consists of a heart with Lawrence Welk's name inside of it. Mozella is the mother of Abigail Wiggins Timberlake, who is the heroine of this series and her mother's quirks are just a small part of what makes this book and it's predecessors so delightfully fun to read.<br /><br />Abigail owns an antique shop named the Den of Antiquity and she seems to always find her way into dangerous situations. This book starts out with a little lady trying to sell Abigail an ugly gray vase. Abigail declines and a few seconds after the lady leaves the shop she flies back in by way of the window, having been struck by a hit and run driver. A short time later the vase is discovered in her shop by one of the Rob-Bobs, owners of another antique shop near by. The Rob-Bobs immediately recognize the vase for what it is and after a little cleaning a rare Ming vase appears. Then the vase disappears and then it reappears again. This vase travels more than Jimmy Carter does.<br /><br />Not having the patience to wait for her policeman boyfriend and his fellow officers to figure out what is going on, Abigail starts to investigate on her own. As in the previous books, she is about as subtle as a chain saw and ends up in terrible danger. Along the way she hears the legend of the Yankee soldier that was killed at the plantation that the trail of clues have led her to. She actually meets the soldier's ghost as do her mama and her friend CJ. The whole scene reminded me of a scene on the \\"Andy Griffith Show\\" when Barney and Gomer were confronted by a floating ax while inside a haunted house.<br /><br />In the end, Abigail figures out the answer to the mystery, although how she did it was never really explained. Still, the mystery in question is enticing and the book is laugh out loud funny at times. The new characters introduced in this book will be quite familiar to any resident of the South and the returning characters are just as fun and charming as can be. Abigail is still a little more brash than most Southern women but she tries very hard to be the Southern lady her mother brought her up to be. Now if she can just talk her mama out of getting that tattoo.of the South and the returning characters are just as fun and charming as can be. Abigail is still a little more brash than most Southern women but she tries very hard to be the Southern lady her mother brought her up to be. Now if she can just talk her mama out of getting that tattoo.	2005-05-20
US	51167656	RF2PNU12JGXPR	0451208323	256090018	Murder, She Wrote: Majoring in Murder	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pecos Jessica Rides a Tornado	Jessica Fletcher, the famous mystery writer has agreed to spend a semester teaching a course about mystery writing at Schoolman College, a small Liberal Arts college in Indiana. Being from Maine, Jessica is not used to dealing with tornadoes and when one hits the campus she is almost caught out in it. Luckily for her, a man named Frank gets her to the shelter just in time and she sits there waiting out the storm with everyone else. There is extensive damage to several campus buildings but only a few injuries and everything seems to be under control until the body of the head of the English Department is found buried under some rubble.<br /><br />At first everyone naturally assumes that it was the storm that killed the professor but something tells Jessica that there is more to this story than meets the eye. As is her custom, Jessica begins to snoop around but the college administration and the local police are determined not to acknowledge the possibility that this might be a murder and they work to thwart Jessica at every turn. The local police lieutenant even goes so far as to pressure the coroner into ignoring some suspicious findings during the autopsy. Jessica, who is used to getting her way, finally pushes the police too far and ends up in jail. Not for long though since the judge turns out to be a fan of hers. With a little help from a student who happens to be just as nosy as her, Jessica finds and retrieves the murder weapon but has to rely on the efforts of her police friends back in Cabot Cove to get it to a lab.<br /><br />As evidence mounts, Jessica digs all the harder and finally, as is usual she solves the mystery, but not before uncovering another mystery which she solves in short order. The biggest problem with this book, and all of the books in this series that I have read, is that some of the evidence is withheld from the reader until the very end. Jessica of course has the evidence and with it she solves the mystery, but the reader is left trying to put together a puzzle with some of the pieces missing. There is also the problem of the missing Frank who is a major character in the early chapters but just disappears in the middle of the book never to return.<br /><br />Despite the missing evidence, which is very frustrating, this was a good quality book. The college atmosphere and Jessica's lectures to her class were very enjoyable. It was kind of like taking a short seminar in mystery writing when the story turned to the classroom. Most of the characters were believable and interesting but I must admit that I missed the people back in Cabot Cove. Thankfully Mort and Seth made short appearances by phone so that neither Jessica nor I became too homesick. She does however turn down an offer to stay for another semester because she has decided that it is time to go home. I couldn't agree more.trying to put together a puzzle with some of the pieces missing. There is also the problem of the missing Frank who is a major character in the early chapters but just disappears in the middle of the book never to return. <br /> <br />Despite the missing evidence, which is very frustrating, this was a good quality book. The college atmosphere and Jessica's lectures to her class were very enjoyable. It was kind of like taking a short seminar in mystery writing when the story turned to the classroom. Most of the characters were believable and interesting but I must admit that I missed the people back in Cabot Cove. Thankfully Mort and Seth made short appearances by phone so that neither Jessica nor I became too homesick. She does however turn down an offer to stay for another semester because she has decided that it is time to go home. I couldn't agree more.	2005-05-19
US	51167656	R3H4W1L0BFIBY6	0425161951	258529095	Death at Devil's Bridge (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Never Put Goose Grease on your Brakes	This series has now reached a new level with the marriage of Sir Charles and Kate, and now the two can solve mysteries as a team without all of the various tensions that were present before. Unfortunately the wedding took place between the last book and this one so we the readers were not invited. There are a few flashbacks to the nuptials however so we aren't completely left out.<br /><br />This book starts off with a death that appears to have been of natural causes but many of the locals are not convinced that this is the case. They blame Lord Marsden's car saying that it scared the old man to death. The anti-motorcar tension in the area builds as Marsden convinces Sir Charles to hold an automobile exhibition and balloon race at Bishop's Keep, Kate's ancestral home. Many of the villagers are in a rage about the exhibition and motor cars in general and they are being urged on by Squire Roger Thornton to whom Lady Marsden (Lord Bradford Marsden's mother) wishes to marry off her youngest daughter Patsy. A fate worse than death for the high spirited and independent minded young lady.<br /><br />On the day of the exhibition the tension has built up to the boiling point and there is a near riot at the Keep. Squire Thornton shows what a miserable creature he really is and Sir Charles is nearly killed in a ballooning accident caused in part by the Squire. In the balloon with Sir Charles is young Charles Rolls and on the ground to witness the launch is Mr. Henry Royce and yes these are the famous Rolls and Royce of automobile fame. The authors of this series do a wonderful job of integrating real historical characters into their stories and this book is no exception. They also do a vast amount of research in their attempt to make their novels as historically accurate as possible and one can learn quite a bit of history from these books. Not many mystery novels include a bibliography at the end, but this series, much to it's credit does just that.<br /><br />There is a little of everything to be found in this book, from flying witches to impaled German race drivers and greasy brakes, and I found the whole adventure to be quite fast-paced and enjoyable. All of the people involved with the exhibition seem to hate each other so that when there is a suspicious death there are plenty of suspects. Sir Charles and Lady Kate make the perfect team and soon they have the solution, but will a jury accept their new type of scientific evidence as proof or will it be over their heads? I was disappointed a little in the ending of the book, especially as it related to the Squire. Surely he faced some consequences for his actions, but even if he didn't I would have liked to know why. I didn't get either wish though and this sort of left the story unfinished for me. What did the Squire do? You will just have to read the book and find out and despite the ending I think that you will find that this book with all of it's authentic Victorian atmosphere and it's eclectic cast to be a very enjoyable experience.s a little of everything to be found in this book, from flying witches to impaled German race drivers and greasy brakes, and I found the whole adventure to be quite fast-paced and enjoyable. All of the people involved with the exhibition seem to hate each other so that when there is a suspicious death there are plenty of suspects. Sir Charles and Lady Kate make the perfect team and soon they have the solution, but will a jury accept their new type of scientific evidence as proof or will it be over their heads? I was disappointed a little in the ending of the book, especially as it related to the Squire. Surely he faced some consequences for his actions, but even if he didn't I would have liked to know why. I didn't get either wish though and this sort of left the story unfinished for me. What did the Squire do? You will just have to read the book and find out and despite the ending I think that you will find that this book with all of it's authentic Victorian atmosphere and it's eclectic cast to be a very enjoyable experience.	2005-05-18
US	51167656	R219TFZFXSP2NX	0515101230	997569693	The Cat Who Went Underground	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Searching for Ignatius	As she kicks off the ninth book in this series Lilian Jackson Braun reintroduces her readers to the resort town of Mooseville. This is where Jim Qwilleran was staying when he inherited millions or billions of dollars; he isn't sure which it is yet. Of course we know that wherever Qwilleran and his cats Koko and Yum Yum go there is going to be a mystery and although the mystery in this book develops slowly it is always there, lurking in the background. Like the other books in this series, the mystery here is light and almost incidental to the story but the depth and richness of the characters and setting more than make up for any lack of intrigue.<br /><br />This story really begins when Qwilleran and his pals return to the lakeside cabin in Mooseville and settle in for the summer. Almost immediately he has to call out a plumber and from there Qwilleran's trials continue and include leaky pipes, a mouse hole, a tornado and finally a body buried beneath the cabin. To make matters worse, Qwilleran decides to enlarge the cabin but finds that all of the licensed carpenters are busy working on local developments until the end of the season so he ends up hiring unlicensed carpenters who keep disappearing.<br /><br />Unlike some of the previous books in this series the clues as to what is going on and who is involved are clear and easily identifiable in this book. In some of the other books there have been no clues at all until the end but I figured this one out long before the book was over. I was mistaken about the motive however and would never have put two and two together if Koko had not forced Qwilleran and me to look at the evidence, which was setting in the cabin in a paper bag. It is a good thing that Koko made his move when he did for Qwilleran himself was a suspect in the murder of one Ignatius K. Small, a carpenter who could go to sleep while nailing shingles on a roof.<br /><br />For fans of this series Qwilleran's trip back to Mooseville will be a welcome change of pace and will allow long time fans to get reacquainted with the people and places of this resort town. Braun's rich writing style and her colorful characters are the core elements of the entire series and this book is no exception. No, this is not a hard core mystery but it is a fun and very enjoyable read.come change of pace and will allow long time fans to get reacquainted with the people and places of this resort town. Braun's rich writing style and her colorful characters are the core elements of the entire series and this book is no exception. No, this is not a hard core mystery but it is a fun and very enjoyable read.	2005-05-17
US	51167656	R1MRD2FM7MT2M2	0374113149	328613861	John Adams: Party of One	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Adams the Patriot	Over the last decade or so there has been a great revival of interest in John Adams and a corresponding positive reevaluation of his accomplishments. Much of this renewed popular interest in our second president has been due to David McCullough's best selling biography and it is therefore hard not to compare this work to Mr. McCullough's excellent tome. Doing so would reveal that the McCullough book is more folksy, easier to read and gives the reader a much more warm feeling toward Mr. Adams while Mr. Grant is much more to the point, academic and does not hesitate to point out his subject's flaws.<br /><br />John Adams' most notable fault, besides his well-known ego and stubbornness is his virulent anti-Catholicism which is notably absent from other biographies. The loathing he feels for all things Catholic is by no means an attractive feature of Adams' personality and Mr. Grant is to be commended for not glossing over this blot on the Adams legacy. While this kind of bigotry was by no means unusual for those times, especially in Puritan New England, a man of Adams' stature and intelligence should have risen above such sentiments.<br /><br />Otherwise, Grant paints a very engaging picture of Adams, a man who in most respects I can relate to in many ways. Like Adams, I am most happy at home surrounded by my books and this love of books is a distinguishing trait of Adams' personality. As is his love for the simple life of a farmer, a trait that Grant brings to life with a story from London. It seems that during Adams' time as Minister to the Court of St. James someone noticed the diplomat walking along with his head down in what the observer took to be a state of deep thought. Grant checked Adam's diary for that day and found that the future president was looking down at the manure along the street and mentally comparing it's quality to the quality of the manure produced on his Massachusetts farm. He found the London manure to be inferior. While more academic than the McCullough book, this book is not without it's folksy stories.<br /><br />Mr. Grant has concentrated on Adams' service during the Revolutionary period and there was plenty of service to concentrate on. Adams' work in the Continental Congress and as a diplomat clearly places him on a level with Washington and Franklin as a founding father. Moreover, Adams, unlike Washington and Franklin, was not a wealthy man and he sacrificed his most productive years to his country. At one point saving America from financial ruin while almost going under himself. Grant does a masterful job of portraying Adams' role in this period and shows that the Revolution might have had a very different outcome if it weren't for John Adams. The people of the United States owe this man a great deal more than most people realize and this book makes that fact abundantly clear.<br /><br />All in all this is a good book that I found very enjoyable. There is very little time spent on the Adams presidency or his twenty-five years of retirement but that can be found elsewhere. There probably should have been a little more attention paid to Adams' complicated relationship with Thomas Jefferson for that relationship reveals a great deal about both men. That too however, can be found elsewhere. The writing is clear and easy to read except that the author has a tendency to rely a little too much on quotes, especially early in the book. There is nothing wrong with quotes but many writers have a tendency to string too many of them close together and to use some that are far too long. This tends to cause the text to bog down and despite what some writers think, it contributes nothing to the reader's feel for the times. Still, this is a very readable, informative and truthful biography of John Adams and is a book that I am happy to add to my surroundings.an the McCullough book, this book is not without it's folksy stories. <br /> <br />Mr. Grant has concentrated on Adams' service during the Revolutionary period and there was plenty of service to concentrate on. Adams' work in the Continental Congress and as a diplomat clearly places him on a level with Washington and Franklin as a founding father. Moreover, Adams, unlike Washington and Franklin, was not a wealthy man and he sacrificed his most productive years to his country. At one point saving America from financial ruin while almost going under himself. Grant does a masterful job of portraying Adams' role in this period and shows that the Revolution might have had a very different outcome if it weren't for John Adams. The people of the United States owe this man a great deal more than most people realize and this book makes that fact abundantly clear. <br /> <br />All in all this is a good book that I found very enjoyable. There is very little time spent on the Adams presidency or his twenty-five years of retirement but that can be found elsewhere. There probably should have been a little more attention paid to Adams' complicated relationship with Thomas Jefferson for that relationship reveals a great deal about both men. That too however, can be found elsewhere. The writing is clear and easy to read except that the author has a tendency to rely a little too much on quotes, especially early in the book. There is nothing wrong with quotes but many writers have a tendency to string too many of them close together and to use some that are far too long. This tends to cause the text to bog down and despite what some writers think, it contributes nothing to the reader's feel for the times. Still, this is a very readable, informative and truthful biography of John Adams and is a book that I am happy to add to my surroundings.	2005-05-16
US	51167656	R1PI3VYAUKICRM	0380782375	730056688	Gilt By Association (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pass the Sweet and Sour Okra Please	Abigail Temberlake, the owner of an antique shop in Charlotte, North Carolina buys an expensive 18th century French armoire at an auction and this story begins when the armoire is delivered to her shop. The armoire is not what kicks off the story; it is instead the body that she finds inside. The police don't suspect her in the murder but they close down her shop while they investigate and she finds herself momentarily out of business with Christmas just weeks away. Needing desperately to get her shop opened back up, Abigail decides to use her newly found free time to do some investigating of her own.<br /><br />Abigail is not, nor does she consider herself to be a detective, which is a refreshing change within the genera of book. She bumbles and stumbles her way along the trail of clues with all the subtlety of the proverbial bull in a china shop. Along the way her shop is burglarized, her house is broken into while she soaks in the tub and an elderly lady with whom she is about to have tea is poisoned. Finally, while following a false trail she stumbles onto the real killer and once again finds herself in mortal danger.<br /><br />Many of the characters from the first book are inexplicably missing from this story. I can't help but wonder why the author spent so much time introducing her readers to the Charlotte antique community in the first book of this series if she were just going to drop them in the second. Especially noticeable is the absence of Tony who inherited the shop next to Abigail's in the last book. Suddenly there is a new person in that shop named Jane who the other shop owners refer to as CJ, short for Calamity Jane. She comes from out of nowhere to play a major role in this story, second only to Abigail who is of course the heroine. Rob and his partner Bob still have major roles in this story as does Yankee Bob's cuisine, which includes fish broth. Rob keeps asking for steak or hamburger and one cold night he and Abigail sneak out onto the patio and eat a box of doughnuts after a dinner of roasted eel. Wynnell is also still a very visible character and she still blames all misfortune on Yankees.<br /><br />These characters and the very Southern atmosphere more than make up for a plot that gets a little lost at times. Abigail is a little brash for a Southern lady, or gentleman for that matter but she does run to the store and stock up on milk and bread after the radio weather mentions snow. We Southerners do tend to panic when we hear the s word. I absolutely fell in love with Bubba's China Gourmet, a restaurant that specializes in Southern Chinese food. Not food from Southern China, Abigail explains, but Chinese food from the South. Their specialties include stir-fried collard greens, sweet and sour okra and moo goo gai grits. There is also a Catholic Funeral at which a very tall Presbyterian gentleman sits up front having no idea when to sit, stand or kneel. Since most of the people at the service are also not Catholic and have no idea what to do they follow the lead of the man up front. Needless to say half of the crowd is always doing the wrong thing at the wrong time making a shambles of the funeral.<br /><br />This is obviously not a hard core mystery but there are still areas of the book where I couldn't wait to see what happened next. This is a light-hearted, happy mystery that will make you laugh out loud and maybe even crave some stir-fried collards. The last chapter is almost like a scene out of the Waltons that ends not with \\"good night John-Boy\\" but with \\"shut up Jane\\" and \\"a Merry Christmas was had by all\\", even Jewish Rob. Just like the merry time you will have as you journey with Tamar Myers through this engaging and hilarious Southern mystery.nd eat a box of doughnuts after a dinner of roasted eel. Wynnell is also still a very visible character and she still blames all misfortune on Yankees.<br /><br />These characters and the very Southern atmosphere more than make up for a plot that gets a little lost at times. Abigail is a little brash for a Southern lady, or gentleman for that matter but she does run to the store and stock up on milk and bread after the radio weather mentions snow. We Southerners do tend to panic when we hear the s word. I absolutely fell in love with Bubba's China Gourmet, a restaurant that specializes in Southern Chinese food. Not food from Southern China, Abigail explains, but Chinese food from the South. Their specialties include stir-fried collard greens, sweet and sour okra and moo goo gai grits. There is also a Catholic Funeral at which a very tall Presbyterian gentleman sits up front having no idea when to sit, stand or kneel. Since most of the people at the service are also not Catholic and have no idea what to do they follow the lead of the man up front. Needless to say half of the crowd is always doing the wrong thing at the wrong time making a shambles of the funeral.<br /><br />This is obviously not a hard core mystery but there are still areas of the book where I couldn't wait to see what happened next. This is a light-hearted, happy mystery that will make you laugh out loud and maybe even crave some stir-fried collards. The last chapter is almost like a scene out of the Waltons that ends not with \\"good night John-Boy\\" but with \\"shut up Jane\\" and \\"a Merry Christmas was had by all\\", even Jewish Rob. Just like the merry time you will have as you journey with Tamar Myers through this engaging and hilarious Southern mystery.	2005-05-15
US	51167656	R1QM6OWQZENKBY	0451201523	309443883	Murder, She Wrote: Trick or Treachery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Jessica goes Moose Hunting	Somehow New England and Halloween just seem to go together and like most New England towns, Cabot Cove has it's own ghost. According to Lucas Tremaine this \\"legend\\" is due to put in an appearance a few days after Halloween. Tremaine incidentally, was a psychic who had recently arrived in Cabot Cove and was hitting the locals up for two hundred bucks a pop to talk to their dead relatives. Also new in town was a woman with penetrating eyes and a black cat and she had apparently arrived in town from Salem, Massachusetts. A psychic, a legend and maybe even a witch, the perfect set up for a Halloween mystery.<br /><br />Despite the somewhat unnerving new residents in the town and the tension they seem to be causing, most people are busy getting ready for the big Halloween party hosted each year by Paul Marshall. The big night arrives and Jessica arrives dressed as the legend herself while Seth is a Revolutionary War British officer. All of Paul Marshall's employees are dressed in moose costumes and everywhere anyone looks there seems to be herds of moose. Before the party is over, true to Cabot Cove form, a body is discovered and the sheriff, dressed as Davy Crockett heads for the scene. Once again however, it seems that Jessica does most of the detective work but then again, she always gets her man. Unless of course the murderer is a woman, in which case of course she doesn't get a man after all.<br /><br />The characters in this story are for the most part the normal Cabot Cove residents and if you have read any of the books in this series or have watched the TV show they will already be familiar to you. The new characters might be just a tad flat, lacking the quirky personalities one comes to expect form the denizens of Cabot Cove. The biggest problem I had with this book though was the preemptive way that Jessica dismissed the whole idea of the paranormal. She comes across in most of these books as an open minded and fair woman but here she comes across as pretty arrogant. Still, in the end she does seem to realize that she might need to give her notion of accepted fact a little closer look. That ending is still another problem since you can see it coming from a mile away but there is no way the reader can solve the mystery of the killing itself until the answer is revealed. That is because evidence is withheld until the moment of truth, which is a tactic that is just not fair to the reader.<br /><br />Still I must admit that I liked this book. In spite of the faults I have mentioned it was generally well written and it was a very enjoyable read. While some of the characters weren't fleshed out enough, others were very realistic and enjoyable. I also liked the idea of having so many people dressed in identical moose costumes, it made trying to catch the killer all the more difficult. The mental picture conjured up of Sheriff Crockett questioning first one moose and then another was also quite fun. Despite it's shortcomings this is still a pretty good book that gave me a good deal of pleasurable reading time.y arrogant. Still, in the end she does seem to realize that she might need to give her notion of accepted fact a little closer look. That ending is still another problem since you can see it coming from a mile away but there is no way the reader can solve the mystery of the killing itself until the answer is revealed. That is because evidence is withheld until the moment of truth, which is a tactic that is just not fair to the reader.  <br /> <br />Still I must admit that I liked this book. In spite of the faults I have mentioned it was generally well written and it was a very enjoyable read. While some of the characters weren't fleshed out enough, others were very realistic and enjoyable. I also liked the idea of having so many people dressed in identical moose costumes, it made trying to catch the killer all the more difficult. The mental picture conjured up of Sheriff Crockett questioning first one moose and then another was also quite fun. Despite it's shortcomings this is still a pretty good book that gave me a good deal of pleasurable reading time.	2005-05-14
US	51167656	R27NNNBMIMVFIR	0425156710	946542248	Death at Daisy's Folly (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Elementary My Dear Kate	In the third book of this series we find Kate Ardleigh and Sir Charles Sheridan visiting Easton Grange the home of Lord and Lady Brooke, the Earl and Countess of Warwick. Among the other guests of this quite real historical couple is the also very real son of Queen Victoria, Prince Albert Edward the future Edward VII. The mixing of fiction with non-fiction adds a great deal of interest to these books and this story in fact revolves around these historical characters. In the previous two books the real people who found their way into the story were for the most part bit players. The story is also aided by the unflinching manner with which the characters are described. The people that have gathered at the Warwick home for a weekend of festivities are all obviously of the highest aristocratic order and this book describes their miserable existence in faithful detail. With this type of immoral, pompous, self-serving elite running things it is a wonder that the Empire lasted as long as it did.<br /><br />Straight away there is a death that at first appears to be an accident but Sir Charles is not so sure about that. The Prince orders the amateur sleuth to investigate but soon there is another death and this one is definitely no accident. Once again the Prince asks Charles to investigate and this time Charles asks the Kate be allowed to assist him. \\"Holmes and Watson\\" the future King announces and goes off to lunch. Charles and Kate turn all of their energies to the investigation but only come up with a few real clues along with a lot of conjecture and what ifs. Finally though, in a rather explosive ending the whole story comes out and justice is done.<br /><br />As in the previous books, the romantic feelings that Sir Charles and Kate have for each other provide an intriguing side plot. New complications and roadblocks keep getting in the way of their romance and the affectionate pair have to face and overcome each and every one. In this story they continue down the road to romance and even matrimony and this book gets just a little too mushy in places. So mushy in fact that it distracts from the mystery to some extent, but not too badly. For some people I am sure this mush will actually add to the story, it just didn't have that effect on me. Another slight drawback is that the old canard about the Prince's son being the reason for the Ripper murders makes an appearance. The authors of this series have obviously done a great deal of research and should know better.<br /><br />For some reason this book is a little slow for the first hundred pages or so. I can't figure out just why but it took about a hundred pages for me to really begin to get into the story. Once I did however, I read voraciously until the killer was revealed. This book may not have been quite as good as the previous two but I still found it to be very entertaining and enjoyable and I find that I am looking very forward to my next adventure with Sir Charles and Kate.e road to romance and even matrimony and this book gets just a little too mushy in places. So mushy in fact that it distracts from the mystery to some extent, but not too badly. For some people I am sure this mush will actually add to the story, it just didn't have that effect on me. Another slight drawback is that the old canard about the Prince's son being the reason for the Ripper murders makes an appearance. The authors of this series have obviously done a great deal of research and should know better.  <br /> <br />For some reason this book is a little slow for the first hundred pages or so. I can't figure out just why but it took about a hundred pages for me to really begin to get into the story. Once I did however, I read voraciously until the killer was revealed. This book may not have been quite as good as the previous two but I still found it to be very entertaining and enjoyable and I find that I am looking very forward to my next adventure with Sir Charles and Kate.	2005-05-13
US	51167656	R36I8UC7RR5Y00	0515099546	156951285	The Cat Who Sniffed Glue	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Squunk Water Anyone?	As I started this, the eighth book of this series I found that the author had decided to use a slightly different tact from that of her previous books. At the beginning of each chapter there are what amounts to stage directions that tell the reader about the location of the action to come and the characters involved. For someone who jumps into the series with this book these directions might be helpful but I found them very distracting.<br /><br />The story itself revolves around the murder of the scion of a local family of bankers and his wife, of whom the family did not approve. Everyone immediately assumes that a gang of local hoodlums committed the murder but Jim Qwilleran is not so sure about that. By the time the dust has settled, Braun has killed off seven residents of Moose County as she continues to thin the population of this remote area. Through it all, Qwilleran senses that there is more to this mystery than meets the eye but he continually overlooks the clues that his cat Koko is trying to give him. To add to Qwilleran's woes, Yum Yum is behaving strangely and he is having serious women troubles.<br /><br />The mystery is a little heavier in this book than in the previous installments and the clues are much harder to read. Until the very end, neither the reader nor Qwilleran will know whom the killer or killers are despite Koko's clues. It all just seems so improbable. Still, since the mysteries in these books are secondary to the story of Jim Qwilleran, his cats and the people of Moose County the odd solution to this particular mystery is not too disappointing. The reader should also be wary of fake leads that appear throughout this story.<br /><br />As is normal for these cat books, the characters are very well developed and interesting. Most of the people to be found in this book have shown up before but we are introduced to the bookseller Eddington Smith, who like Barney Fife carries a pistol with no bullets. We are also introduced to Smith's cat Winston, who dusts the booksellers inventory with his tail. Also intriguing is the bottled water Qwilleran likes so much and the reason that is finally given for it's pleasant taste.<br /><br />Lilian Jackson Braun can weave a story like few other authors. Her mysteries are light and entertaining with just a little sex rolled in to keep things interesting. Even if you aren't a mystery buff, once you start reading this series you will not be able to stop because you will get very attached to the people and the cats. If there were really a Moose County I think that I would move there.cat Winston, who dusts the booksellers inventory with his tail. Also intriguing is the bottled water Qwilleran likes so much and the reason that is finally given for it's pleasant taste.  <br /> <br />Lilian Jackson Braun can weave a story like few other authors. Her mysteries are light and entertaining with just a little sex rolled in to keep things interesting. Even if you aren't a mystery buff, once you start reading this series you will not be able to stop because you will get very attached to the people and the cats. If there were really a Moose County I think that I would move there.	2005-05-12
US	51167656	R8DU7RE07NJFO	0800711327	686676188	Rosalynn: Friend and First Lady	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Never Underestimate Southern Women	Watergate brought about many changes in the process that Americans use to choose their president, especially in the nominating process. The 1976 campaign would be the first test for these reforms and only one candidate grasped the significance of the changes. That candidate was former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter and this book offers the reader a glimpse into the inner workings of the campaign that changes the way presidential campaigns are run.<br /><br />Edna Langford is not only a friend of the Carter's but her daughter Judy married Jack Carter uniting the two families not only by friendship but also by blood with the birth of Jason Carter in 1975. Mrs. Langford was therefore in a unique position to observe up close the inner workings of the out of nowhere Carter campaign. At least the pundits thought it was an out of nowhere campaign but Carter family and friends had been hard at work, one on one with the voters for many months and as the 1976 primaries and caucuses began, all of their hard work started to pay off.<br /><br />The author was part of the campaign from the beginning as she and Mrs. Carter drove down to Florida in 1975 with instructions from Jimmy to make some friends. That is just what these two ladies did as they campaigned across northern Florida talking about a candidate that most people had never heard of. It was to be the first of many trips that the author made with the future First Lady. Mrs. Langford provides a clear and easy to read account of her campaign travels as she and Mrs. Carter worked county courthouses, local newspapers, small town radio stations and even a cow auction.<br /><br />Mrs. Langford obviously has the highest of esteem for Rosalynn Carter and one must take this into account as they read this book. Still though, this book offers a rare and often candid look at the infancy of a major presidential campaign. The author tells of their mistakes and of the times they were rejected or rudely treated just as she also tells of their triumphs. This is not a detailed account of the campaign by any means but the insights offered within it's pages are an invaluable resource to any student of twentieth century American history.  This campaign changed American politics forever and this author has shared with us her experiences from the very beginning of the campaign through the inauguration and she has done so in a very fun and enjoyable little book.their triumphs. This is not a detailed account of the campaign by any means but the insights offered within it's pages are an invaluable resource to any student of twentieth century American history.  This campaign changed American politics forever and this author has shared with us her experiences from the very beginning of the campaign through the inauguration and she has done so in a very fun and enjoyable little book.	2005-05-09
US	51167656	R276JCI1K1R7VK	0380782391	868347374	Larceny and Old Lace (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Aunt Eulonia Meets Her Maker	To be perfectly honest, I picked this book up because I liked the cover. I was looking for another mystery series to start and this one simply caught my eye. I was not disappointed.<br /><br />Being the first book in the Den of Antiquity series much of this book is taken up in introducing the reader to the cast of characters and the setting. The setting being an antique district in Charlotte, North Carolina and the heroine's hometown of Rock Hill, South Carolina. Having been to both locations on several occasions I didn't need much of an introduction here. The heroine in question is Abigail Timberlake, a mid-forties divorced mother of two who owns an antique shop from which the series takes it's name. Among the other characters are Abigail's Aunt Marilyn, who claims that Marilyn Monroe stole her persona and a cop whom Abigail lusts after through the whole book. Her fellow antique dealers include a retired Army Major who has a pair of Hitler's pajamas for sale, a lady who blames all crimes in the area on the swarms of Yankees that have descended on the South, a Bible thumping Pentecostal who can't stand Abby's Episcopalian Faith, and a gay Jewish guy who's sister dresses like a woolly worm.<br /><br />The mystery begins when Abigail's elderly Aunt Eulonia is murdered and only gets deeper when Abby finds out that her aunt was hiding something very valuable. One of the beauties of this story is that the main character does not consider herself an amateur sleuth at all but only butts in to defend a friend that is charged with the murder.  Unfortunately she almost gets killed in her effort but she does find the real killer. She makes the discovery by pure accident and the solution came as a huge surprise to her and to me also for that matter.<br /><br />Myers does a wonderful job of giving this story the flavor of the South and if your not careful you may just start craving grits. There is even a discussion of that great nemesis of all Southerners, kudzu. If you have ever been in the South you have seen kudzu, whether you knew it was kudzu or not. If you have stood still in the wrong place for more than ten minuets this vine from Hades has probably swallowed you up. There is a lot of humor in this book, like the dissertation on kudzu and I found myself laughing out loud on several occasions.  The writing is clear and crisp but I did get lost in the dialogue a time or two.<br /><br />I think that I have found a series that I am going to like very much but I would suggest to the author that Abby stop calling people Buster. I have never ever heard a Southern woman call someone Buster, unless of course that was his real name.have ever been in the South you have seen kudzu, whether you knew it was kudzu or not. If you have stood still in the wrong place for more than ten minuets this vine from Hades has probably swallowed you up. There is a lot of humor in this book, like the dissertation on kudzu and I found myself laughing out loud on several occasions.  The writing is clear and crisp but I did get lost in the dialogue a time or two. <br /> <br />I think that I have found a series that I am going to like very much but I would suggest to the author that Abby stop calling people Buster. I have never ever heard a Southern woman call someone Buster, unless of course that was his real name.	2005-05-09
US	51167656	RZOPAJJR6EFY8	0451214684	592352594	Murder, She Wrote: the Maine Mutiny	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Extra Butter Please	When a friend of mine first suggested that I might like the \\"Murder She Wrote\\" books, which are based on the television series I must admit that I was a little leery. I was afraid that the books would just be warmed over plots from the show or worse yet, plots that the show's producers had rejected. But given this friend's track record of giving good and sound advice I decided to give one of these books a try and it was a wise decision if I do say so myself.<br /><br />It seems that Jessica Fletcher's home town, Cabot Cove, is having a lobster festival both to draw tourists and to pay homage to the town's biggest industry. There are dark clouds brewing over the lobster business however as the local buying agent is making every effort to cheat the lobstermen who do all of the backbreaking work. Linc Williams, the head of the Lobstermen's Association is presiding over an organization in turmoil as tempers flair and accusations fly. There are also some fairly mild incidents of vandalism as member turns on member.<br /><br />Into this mess wades Jessica Fletcher as she trues to write an article on a day in the life of the lobster fishermen for the local paper. As she begins to sense just how dangerous the situation among the lobstermen has become she becomes very worried that the whole affair will explode and completely ruin the lobster festival. The deeper she wades into the situation the darker things become until at last there is a death and an attempted murder and Jessica finds herself in a very grave and dangerous position. As soon as she makes her way out of danger she finds that the Sheriff has arrested a man for the above crimes that she is sure is innocent so she goes to work to prove just that. Thanks to her expert sleuthing the clues soon begin to appear and they point toward places that Jessica wishes they hadn't. In the end the lobster festival is a big success and all turns out well, at least for the innocent.<br /><br />This book is extremely well written and keeps the reader enthralled in the story. The characters portrayed are very believable and in some cases colorful. Literally colorful in the case of one lady who has been picking lots of blueberries. There are times when the reader will almost be able to feel the salt spray of the ocean and smell the fishiness of the docks. And as with any good mystery, if the one pays close attention, there are enough clues to allow the reader to figure out who done it, as they say. All around, a top notch book that I would highly recommend.written and keeps the reader enthralled in the story. The characters portrayed are very believable and in some cases colorful. Literally colorful in the case of one lady who has been picking lots of blueberries. There are times when the reader will almost be able to feel the salt spray of the ocean and smell the fishiness of the docks. And as with any good mystery, if the one pays close attention, there are enough clues to allow the reader to figure out who done it, as they say. All around, a top notch book that I would highly recommend.	2005-05-07
US	51167656	RBNQQ9KMSXMA2	0425163997	587442969	Death at Gallows Green (Victorian Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Jemima Puddle Duck Lays an Egg	In this, the 2nd of the Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, the reader will find Kathryn Ardleigh firmly established as the mistress of Bishop's Keep after she inherited the Ardleigh estate following the death of her Aunts in the last book. She is still upsetting the local gentry with her clothing and behavior and she still could care less. In this book she picks up a friend in Beatrix Potter who along with her menagerie of animals pays a visit to Bishop's Keep. Kate and Bea decide to have an adventure and proceed to do just that, maybe getting just a little more adventure than they bargained for.<br /><br />The adventure starts when a young couple out for a walk finds the local Constable who has been shot to death. It turns out that the deceased, Sergeant Arthur Oliver, is a childhood friend of both Constable Edward Laken and Sir Charles Sheridan an amateur photographer and budding criminologist. Laken and Sheridan are soon deeply involved in the investigation of this grisly murder despite a mysterious degree of interference form the Chief Constable in the area. As in the last book, Kate also begins to snoop around and despite repeated warnings about the danger she is putting herself in, Kate and Bea make several important discoveries. In the end, mostly through the efforts of Kate and Sir Charles, the mystery is solved and the guilty are jailed.<br /><br />Running along with and as part of the story is the romance that is building between Kate and Sir Charles. Kate is not sure how to handle her feelings for Sir Charles because she has always valued her independence over any possible romantic involvement. Sir Charles who many consider to be a confirmed bachelor is very taken with Kate but believes that two of his close friends are also interested in her so he keeps his distance. Bea, who has been aquatinted with Charles for some time due to their shared interest in science is not long in seeing through his faade of indifference but is sworn to silence and cannot speak with Kate about her discovery. In the end, we are left with the distinct impression that in a book not too far down the road the two amateur detectives will form a partnership that is based on much more than bringing criminals to justice.<br /><br />I found that this book was even more engaging than the first and I liked the first book quite a bit. This story draws the reader in more and more as it goes along, like a good mystery should and I found that I couldn't wait to find out what had happened to various characters who at one time or another were in grave danger. The husband and wife team who write these mysteries under the name of Robin Paige have also done a wonderful job of bringing Victorian England to life, so much so that I found myself craving tea as I read about all of the tea these people were drinking. The introduction of Beatrix Potter into the story added a great deal to it's charm as did her animals and those of young Betsy Oliver. I promise that you will come to think of Betsy Oliver as a very real child and you will worry about her as if she were a child that you have known for years. The writing in this book is just that good. And if you pay close attention, you may just figure out the mystery even before Sir Charles and Kate do.speak with Kate about her discovery. In the end, we are left with the distinct impression that in a book not too far down the road the two amateur detectives will form a partnership that is based on much more than bringing criminals to justice. <br /> <br />I found that this book was even more engaging than the first and I liked the first book quite a bit. This story draws the reader in more and more as it goes along, like a good mystery should and I found that I couldn't wait to find out what had happened to various characters who at one time or another were in grave danger. The husband and wife team who write these mysteries under the name of Robin Paige have also done a wonderful job of bringing Victorian England to life, so much so that I found myself craving tea as I read about all of the tea these people were drinking. The introduction of Beatrix Potter into the story added a great deal to it's charm as did her animals and those of young Betsy Oliver. I promise that you will come to think of Betsy Oliver as a very real child and you will worry about her as if she were a child that you have known for years. The writing in this book is just that good. And if you pay close attention, you may just figure out the mystery even before Sir Charles and Kate do.	2005-05-05
US	51167656	R2TETPVLRX8K9V	0515095826	670145882	The Cat Who Knew Shakespeare	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Koko Rides the Elevator	As we join the soap opera that is Pickax City in this the seventh book of this series we find that all is quiet, at least in the beginning. The people of Moose County are bracing for the first snow of the year, which they refer to as \\"the big one\\" and Jim Qwilleran has lost another love interest. Of course anybody who has read any of the other books knows that before long somebody is going to die and that usually the deaths just keep right on coming. With only 4000 people in Pickax City the author is eventually going to have to bring in new people or quit killing off so many in each book. This series can be just a little morbid but I have found that once one begins reading these books the marvelous characters and backdrop become addictive.<br /><br />Right on schedule there is a death that looks like an accident but Qwilleran isn't so sure that it wasn't murder or even suicide. The first death to occur throws things into an uproar that particularly affects one of Qwilleran's close friends and he jumps into action to solve the problem. He also finds a new love interest and his housekeeper is hinting that she may be close to getting a proposal from her new beau. Along the way he opens a museum in his new palatial home and is suspicious of his old friend Hixie Rice's new boyfriend. Qwilleran also learns that the local radio station predicts snow every day in November until they are finally right and he learns a hard lesson about \\"the big one\\" after he starts to ignore the weather forecast. All the while Koko, the cat in the title, is trying to tell the former ace reporter something but somehow Qwilleran misses all of the signals. Koko, for his part learns to use the new elevator in the house and rides up and down a lot.<br /><br />Like the previous books in the series, the mystery in this book becomes secondary to the antics of the people and cats of Moose County. Lilian Jackson Braun has an uncanny ability when it comes to character creation and the reader will get attached to these people, which makes it all the more sad when she kills somebody off. I have even developed a desire to visit Moose County, even though it is a figment of the author's imagination. I would particularly like to visit the town of Brr where it is always colder than it is anywhere else in Moose County. This is just the kind of extra touch that makes these wonderful books so addictive.get attached to these people, which makes it all the more sad when she kills somebody off. I have even developed a desire to visit Moose County, even though it is a figment of the author's imagination. I would particularly like to visit the town of Brr where it is always colder than it is anywhere else in Moose County. This is just the kind of extra touch that makes these wonderful books so addictive.	2005-05-03
US	51167656	R1D2LDFEARJO4T	0595297862	849132681	The Ghost Next Door: True Stories of Paranormal Encounters from Everyday People	Books	3	36	40	N	N	A Little More Background Please	Mark Alan Morris has put together a nice little book of ghost stories that he has collected from family and friends. This is an interesting book, an intriguing book, and a well-written book, but most of all it is a book that could have been so much more. Morris' conversational writing style makes one feel as if he or she is sitting by a crackling fire while the author tells his ghost stories in person. The stories are very good and begin to draw the reader in but just as I would begin to edge up on the edge of my seat, the story would end.<br /><br />The main problem is that Morris has done no research on any of these stories, which he tells so well. If he had put just a little effort into finding out the possible origins of these haunts this book would have been so much better. Some ghost story books spoil the mood with too much historical background but it helps the reader immensely to have some idea of the origin of the ghost in question. The few stories in this book that do have some background have it because the possible ghost is a relative of the person who related the story to the author and even then there is often very little information provided about this person's life.<br /><br />A good example of this lack of background comes from the last story in the book, which deals with a photograph that the author took in Savannah. In this picture there appear a couple of shadowy figures, which he feels might have been ghostly Monks. He and his new bride had wondered if the building across the street from the B&B where they took the photo might have once been a church even before they even took the picture in question, let alone had it developed. All it would have taken would have been a phone call or two to find out but that apparently wasn't done and just that little bit of effort would have added a great deal of creditability to the story. On the other hand, the eyewitness accounts of the eerie events told of in this book do lend a strong air of creditability to the stories. Again, so close but yet so far.<br /><br />Once again, this is a very enjoyable book but it could have easily been so much better. The fact that this book was so close to being so good is probably why the lack of research upset me so much. Maybe if Mr. Morris turns out another book on this subject he will rectify this problem. If he does I have no doubt that it will be a superb five star effort. As for this book, you will enjoy it I'm sure but you will almost certainly feel as if there is something missing.ility to the stories. Again, so close but yet so far.  <br /> <br />Once again, this is a very enjoyable book but it could have easily been so much better. The fact that this book was so close to being so good is probably why the lack of research upset me so much. Maybe if Mr. Morris turns out another book on this subject he will rectify this problem. If he does I have no doubt that it will be a superb five star effort. As for this book, you will enjoy it I'm sure but you will almost certainly feel as if there is something missing.	2005-05-01
US	51167656	RDCUI3AG9JJ14	0425164357	562860092	Death at Bishop's Keep (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	82	84	N	N	Spiritualists, Scarabs, and Hags-Oh My	Husband and wife team Susan and Bill Albert, writing under the pseudonym Robin Paige, launch with this book a series of Victorian mysteries. This being the first book in a series the first order of business is to introduce the readers to the main characters and this writing duo does a fine job of it. We are first introduced to Miss Kate Ardleigh, an American woman in her mid twenties who has been raised by her maternal uncle after the deaths of her English father and Irish mother. Kate works as a personal secretary for ladies in New York and secretly writes a mystery serial for a New York newspaper. She keeps it a secret and writes under a pseudonym because Victorian ladies aren't supposed to even read mystery novels, let alone write them.<br /><br />Kate ends up going to England to work for her father's sister, an aunt that she never knew existed and finds that this aunt is quite well off. She also finds another aunt, a vile wretch of a woman who knows something on the good aunt and holds it over her head so that she will be allowed to live at Bishop's Keep and run the household. It doesn't take the reader long to really despise Aunt Jaggers and since this is a mystery I read on vigorously in hopes that somebody would murder this hateful old hag.<br /><br />Soon after her arrival in England, Kate makes the acquaintance of Sir Charles Sheridan, an amateur photographer who believes that technology like the camera and fingerprinting are the wave of the future when it comes to solving crimes. When Kate first meets him he is already trying to solve the mysterious murder of a stranger whose body was found in an archeological dig. Kate becomes immediately intrigued because she wants to study real crimes in order to gain material for her so-called penny dreadful mystery series.<br /><br />As the story evolves there are two more murders to be solved, a cult to be infiltrated and peacock feathers to be traced. All in all, I must say that this is a very good and imaginative mystery novel with wonderful plot twists and enough clues to allow the reader to figure out the mystery if you pay close attention. The characters are very well developed and are incredibly believable and the historical detail is marvelous and adds a great deal to the story. There is also a slight thread of sexual tension running throughout the book that I assume will come to something farther along in the series. I already have found myself becoming attached to these fictional characters, especially the cook who seems like my kind of woman. Finally, all of the loose ends are wrapped up at the end of the story, which is a virtue that many books of this type do not share. Nothing irritates me more than red herrings that are just forgotten about and never explained. Thankfully that trait is gloriously absent from this book.<br /><br />I found that this book started off a little slowly and I wasn't at all sure that I was going to like this series, but I must admit that the story picked up in a hurry and I soon found that I was having trouble putting it down. I lost some sleep by reading when I should have been in bed but I think that my sleep depravation was well worth it. I highly recommend this book.inative mystery novel with wonderful plot twists and enough clues to allow the reader to figure out the mystery if you pay close attention. The characters are very well developed and are incredibly believable and the historical detail is marvelous and adds a great deal to the story. There is also a slight thread of sexual tension running throughout the book that I assume will come to something farther along in the series. I already have found myself becoming attached to these fictional characters, especially the cook who seems like my kind of woman. Finally, all of the loose ends are wrapped up at the end of the story, which is a virtue that many books of this type do not share. Nothing irritates me more than red herrings that are just forgotten about and never explained. Thankfully that trait is gloriously absent from this book. <br /> <br />I found that this book started off a little slowly and I wasn't at all sure that I was going to like this series, but I must admit that the story picked up in a hurry and I soon found that I was having trouble putting it down. I lost some sleep by reading when I should have been in bed but I think that my sleep depravation was well worth it. I highly recommend this book.	2005-04-28
US	51167656	R1HAKWOWSH67C6	0515093203	800231754	The Cat Who Played Post Office	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Koko Plays Beethoven	Lillian Jackson Braun opens this, her sixth cat mystery with Jim Qwilleran waking up in a hospital bed and not knowing who or where he is. It seems that he had been run off of the road by a truck as he bicycled on Ittibittiwassee Road. As he tries to regain his memory the reader is led along with him while he thinks back on events leading up to his accident. Most of these events involve the perplexing disappearance of one Daisy Mull who had been employed by Qwilleran's \\"Aunt Fanny.\\" Once he is home from the hospital things begin to happen at a more rapid pace and a mystery that no one in Moose County had thought about all that much ends up bringing down some of Pickax City's leading citizens and leads to more deaths. Had Qwilleran paid attention to Koko's clues a little earlier some of this mayhem might have been avoided but the Siamese wonder can't seem to make his human friend understand. Koko finally gets so disgusted with Qwilleran that he refuses to have anything to do with him.<br /><br />Braun also uses this book to set up Qwilleran's new life in Moose County. Arch Riker comes up from Down Below for a visit and hints that he might just like to make the move to Pickax City himself and Mrs. Iris Cobb does make the move and becomes Qwilleran's housekeeper, cook and the curator of his newly acquired house full of antiques. Ever the ladies man, our hero has hooked up with the lovely green-eyed Dr. Melinda Goodwinter and the relationship has blossomed since it began in the last book. He even begins to hint at a marriage. He also makes the acquaintance of Amanda Goodwinter who seems to be a perfect match for the newly divorced Arch Riker.<br /><br />There are a few more twists and turns in this story than in some of the previous books but once again the mystery is not the main attraction of the book. Braun's talent for creating memorable characters and settings is very much in evidence in this book and she appears to have even created a man for Iris Cobb. Just Like Iris' first husband, nobody can stand this guy either. As usual, the cats steal the show as they march together in a dinner line and wait impatiently for the mail to come through the slot so that they can dive in the pile. And once again the cats save Qwilleran's life. This time it is Koko that comes to the rescue at the end of this highly enjoyable and entertaining book.Like Iris' first husband, nobody can stand this guy either. As usual, the cats steal the show as they march together in a dinner line and wait impatiently for the mail to come through the slot so that they can dive in the pile. And once again the cats save Qwilleran's life. This time it is Koko that comes to the rescue at the end of this highly enjoyable and entertaining book.	2005-04-25
US	51167656	R3MZB1NJTDD3YQ	0847827615	190398942	Memory and Identity: Conversations at the Dawn of a Millennium	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An Eloquent Farewell from the Holy Father	This book, like many other works by John Paul II, packs a lot of information into a fairly short space. As usual, the concepts that the Holy Father intends to convey come through in a very clear and easy to understand manner that is accessible to most anyone. There is indeed quite a bit of philosophical material in this book but like the good Father that he was, he takes the time to explain his lessons to his children. This entire book is in fact a question and answer session and very much reminded me of an elderly Father gathering his children around him to impart great wisdom during his final days.<br /><br />I can't imagine how Pope John Paul II could have left a better gift for Pope Benedict XVI than the one he left in this book. The first part of this book deals in great detail with one of the greatest problems facing the new Holy Father, that being challenges to Church teaching in light of the relativism so in vogue in Western Europe and the United States.  The Holy Father in this section of the book takes on the ideas of good and evil which grew out of the Enlightenment. These ideas tend to give man some discretion in deciding what is good and what is evil. With mankind given this kind of power it becomes easy to ignore God's rules and to make up whatever rules are convenient at the time. In other words, the same philosophy that allows me to justify the occasional little white lie also allowed the murder of millions of people in the Third Reich and Soviet Union. This is tough talk from our former Pontiff but it sure has the ring of truth.<br /><br />The rest of the book is a discussion of freedom, national identity and culture. Most of the time the Pope uses the example of his native Poland to make his points and it is clear that this is a man who loves his homeland very much. Despite his own patriotism however, the Holy Father warns against extreme nationalism, which he sees as a growing threat in the new millennium.<br /><br />The final chapter deals with the 1981 assignation attempt in St. Peter's Square. Here his secretary, Archbishop Stanislaw Dziwisz, joins him in the conversation.  This is the first time that John Paul II has written about this event and the addition of the Archbishop adds greatly to the account since the Pope was unconscious much of the time. Within this chapter, the Pope ties this event to Fatima and is very clear in his belief that he was saved by the intervention of the Blessed Virgin.<br /><br />The Holy Catholic Church and the world at large have lost a great man with the passing of John Paul II but thanks to his writings he will be with us forever. This, his last book, is deep but readable and offers us a last glimpse into the philosophy of this intellectual and spiritual giant.with the 1981 assignation attempt in St. Peter's Square. Here his secretary, Archbishop Stanislaw Dziwisz, joins him in the conversation.  This is the first time that John Paul II has written about this event and the addition of the Archbishop adds greatly to the account since the Pope was unconscious much of the time. Within this chapter, the Pope ties this event to Fatima and is very clear in his belief that he was saved by the intervention of the Blessed Virgin.  <br /> <br />The Holy Catholic Church and the world at large have lost a great man with the passing of John Paul II but thanks to his writings he will be with us forever. This, his last book, is deep but readable and offers us a last glimpse into the philosophy of this intellectual and spiritual giant.	2005-04-22
US	51167656	R2K194WLL9ESF8	0515090506	470032178	The Cat Who Played Brahms	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Koko Rides a Moose	In this the fifth book of this series, our hero Jim Qwilleran decides that it is time for a short change of pace and that he may just take his \\"Aunt\\" Fanny up on her offer of a free lakeside cabin for the summer. Any doubts he has about the move quickly disappear when he finds that the Press Club has been remodeled and that his living quarters have been sold out from under him. There is a little problem with story inconsistency here because Maus Haus is being torn down despite information in the last book that an art center of some sort must be maintained there. Not a big deal but it did draw my attention.<br /><br />Soon Qwilleran has bought a car and he and his cats are headed to Pickaxe City to visit Aunt Fanny and then on to the cabin which is located in Mooseville. Braun is well known for her colorful characters and as one might imagine Moose County is fertile ground for a good crop of exceptionally colorful characters. Beyond the people, the area in question has a character all of it's own. The restaurants are for the most part awful, most people drive blue pick-up trucks, the local turkey farmer has a BO problem and no one wants to report a crime because they will get someone they know into trouble. There is indeed crime in Moose County but with nobody reporting it the police have to resort to setting up roadblocks to pass the time.<br /><br />Qwilleran, a confirmed city boy has all kinds of problems while trying to get used to the rural quiet. He buys a cap so he will fit in but he thinks that the septic tank hole is a grave, he picks at poison ivy, and the various animal noises during the night prompt several calls to the sheriff. At one point he tries to impress a visitor by pointing out that they just heard an owl but the visitor corrects him and says it was a dove. An easy mistake that even my country born and raised wife has made.<br /><br />As out of his element as Qwilleran is, he is still sure that something terribly illegal is going on around him. He pokes around but all he gets is a bad case of poison ivy and he is wary of calling the police since they already think he is about half-nuts. The mystery in this book is a little more subtle than in some of the previous books and the reader will not find the answer, or what the mystery is for that matter until late in the book. Basically the reader is in the same boat as the hero and is not able to quite put his finger on things until once again the cats come to the rescue. Then, even after the first mystery is solved another one appears that has been quietly lurking under everyone's nose for almost half of the book. Neither Qwilleran nor the readers know of this mystery until the mighty Koko provides the answer to the previously unknown question. For once the ever-suspicious reporter is not suspicious enough.<br /><br />This is another good story by Lilian Jackson Braun that draws the reader in as the narrative proceeds. One isn't drawn in so much by a deep mystery but by the delightful characters to whom one becomes attached. The reader should pay particular attention to this book because it introduces the setting for the rest of the books in the series. Pickaxe City here we come.nd him. He pokes around but all he gets is a bad case of poison ivy and he is wary of calling the police since they already think he is about half-nuts. The mystery in this book is a little more subtle than in some of the previous books and the reader will not find the answer, or what the mystery is for that matter until late in the book. Basically the reader is in the same boat as the hero and is not able to quite put his finger on things until once again the cats come to the rescue. Then, even after the first mystery is solved another one appears that has been quietly lurking under everyone's nose for almost half of the book. Neither Qwilleran nor the readers know of this mystery until the mighty Koko provides the answer to the previously unknown question. For once the ever-suspicious reporter is not suspicious enough.  <br /> <br />This is another good story by Lilian Jackson Braun that draws the reader in as the narrative proceeds. One isn't drawn in so much by a deep mystery but by the delightful characters to whom one becomes attached. The reader should pay particular attention to this book because it introduces the setting for the rest of the books in the series. Pickaxe City here we come.	2005-04-22
US	51167656	R3G3VTEBQH4OTP	0813123054	834090399	Confederate General R.S. Ewell: Robert E. Lee's Hesitant Commander	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Weak Writing, Strong Research	The amount of time and research that went into this book is hard to fathom as archives from many parts of the South have been scoured for material. Paul Casdorph would in fact be the perfect choice to teach graduate research seminars because he is so adept in this area. Unfortunately, as is often the case, the best researchers are not always the best writers. There is much information and insight into the life of General Richard Ewell to be found in this book but sometimes it is very hard to extract.<br /><br />The author's thesis is that General Ewell just didn't have the personality to be an aggressive field commander and that may well have been the case but this often contradictory book falls far short of proving that point. The cases where Ewell was aggressive are hardly noted although they did exist and actually Ewell was sometimes more apt to attack than Stonewall Jackson. It is a comparison with Jackson that in fact makes up most of the author's argument. Again however incidents that contradict the author's theory are just brushed aside. For example, Jackson's extreme lethargy during the Seven Days battles is hardly dealt with at all.<br /><br />Ewell's poor performance at Gettysburg seems to be the cornerstone of Casdorph's argument but alas it is also the weakest part of his argument. The reader is hit constantly with what Jackson might have done at Gettysburg, which is something we will never know. He might well have leaned up against a tree and took another nap. The author also brings up the old canard about Longstreet's late attack on July 2nd. I would be willing to bet that the author couldn't take a comparable number of men and make it from where Longstreet's men were at 11:00 PM on July 1st to where the attack is supposed to have come from in less than seven hours either. It would be especially unlikely with a guide that ended up costing Longstreet several hours.<br /><br />Another problem rests with the writing style the author employs. There were places in this book that left me feeling as if I was trudging through knee deep mud. The writing does improve as the book goes along but there are places that are just mercilessly dull. He also misspells General Cleburne's name, which is a mistake that one shouldn't find in this type of scholarly work.<br /><br />Still, Casdorph does make one very clear and astute point. Robert E. Lee had a blind spot for Virginia and Virginians and that seems to be the only real reason Ewell ever rose to corps command. Although there is no clear argument made in this text as to who might have been a better choice.<br /><br />Overall the writing and thesis of this book are weak at best but there is still a lot of information to be found here. The author has presented several important facts and one can learn quite a bit about General Ewell and the Army of Northern Virginia in this book. If Mr. Casdorph was willing to do all of this research the least the reader can do is pick through the dull areas in order to access the information.were places in this book that left me feeling as if I was trudging through knee deep mud. The writing does improve as the book goes along but there are places that are just mercilessly dull. He also misspells General Cleburne's name, which is a mistake that one shouldn't find in this type of scholarly work. <br /> <br />Still, Casdorph does make one very clear and astute point. Robert E. Lee had a blind spot for Virginia and Virginians and that seems to be the only real reason Ewell ever rose to corps command. Although there is no clear argument made in this text as to who might have been a better choice.  <br /> <br />Overall the writing and thesis of this book are weak at best but there is still a lot of information to be found here. The author has presented several important facts and one can learn quite a bit about General Ewell and the Army of Northern Virginia in this book. If Mr. Casdorph was willing to do all of this research the least the reader can do is pick through the dull areas in order to access the information.	2005-04-20
US	51167656	R2TH0LOYBR9RER	0515090166	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Red	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Koko Discovers Caviar	Poor old Jim Qwilleran, everywhere he goes people are drinking in front of this recovering alcoholic. To make matters worse, early in this book his doctor puts him on a strict diet just before he gets assigned to cover the gourmet scene for the Daily Fluxion. Just as he really begins to feel sorry for himself he runs into an old flame at a party he is attending that is on his new beat. The party and the old flame are at the Maus House, something of a boarding house for the gourmet set. Since the house was built as an artist's conclave and must remain so to some extent, the new owner has kept the pottery going and brought in Joy Graham and her husband to run it. Joy is the reporter's old flame and his perspective brightens as soon as he sees her.<br /><br />Soon however Joy disappears and her husband Dan claims she has left him and gone to Florida. Except for the fact that Joy had just told Qwilleran that she hates Florida the story is plausible enough but something just doesn't ring true to the ace reporter and he starts sniffing around. Soon there is another disappearance but no one takes Qwilleran's suspicions seriously and this book ends up reading like the disaster movies of the 1970's. The hero knows the dam is about to break but nobody will listen so he spends the entire movie trying to prove his point until the dam does break and everybody drowns. There are indeed a couple of drowning victims in this story but they may or may not have any connection to the mystery at hand.<br /><br />The solution to the mystery becomes apparent early but Qwilleran, despite his suspicions, can't prove a thing. Again Koko rises to the occasion, this time on a typewriter and Yum Yum makes the collar. One sometimes wonders if these cats need Qwilleran for anything beyond food and water. You can also rest assured that these cats, unlike their human, will never swallow red herrings.<br /><br />As is the norm for Lilian Jackson Braun's books, the characters and their often-odd behavior are the bread and butter of the story. And speaking of odd, I am happy to report that photographer Odd Bunsen makes a return in this book after being absent from the previous story. For a free meal Bunsen will help Qwilleran with almost anything and just like the rest of Jackson's characters and this book, Bunsen is witty, engaging and sometimes a little devious.ior are the bread and butter of the story. And speaking of odd, I am happy to report that photographer Odd Bunsen makes a return in this book after being absent from the previous story. For a free meal Bunsen will help Qwilleran with almost anything and just like the rest of Jackson's characters and this book, Bunsen is witty, engaging and sometimes a little devious.	2005-04-15
US	51167656	RAGDVLIO4CMOC	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Spiritual Journey that is Well Worth Taking	When I was first asked to read and review this book I was a little hesitant because at first glance this did not look like the type of book that I would normally read. Because of this I was afraid that I would write an unfair review because I wasn't all that interested in the subject matter. After finishing this book I am reminded once again that you can never judge a book by it's cover.  The only complaint that I can in fact muster is that the story is a little disjointed in places, jumping from one point of view and one period of time to another in a very abrupt fashion. This is particularly true in the early stages of the story and I must admit that I found myself a little bit confused at times. Once one makes it through the first third of the book however everything begins to make sense. Otherwise this is a very well written and engaging book and one that I feel is very relevant and timely.<br /><br />This is a story of four soldiers who were involved in the Vietnam War, three Americans and one North Vietnamese. The latter enters the story near the end but like the others he carries old scars and is deeply moved by what he experiences as he guides two of his former enemies toward their goal. That goal being to find out if a young Corporal from Kentucky who was listed as MIA was still alive thirty years after he disappeared. The odds were against such a thing but the evidence kept mounting until finally these men had to go back to Vietnam and find out for themselves. When they arrived at their destination they were somewhat surprised to find that they had been expected.<br /><br />Beyond the basic story line this is a deeply spiritual novel, almost to the point of mysticism. The main characters are forced over the years to face up to their faith and beliefs and Billy Kern, the lost Corporal is willing to go to great lengths to do what he perceives as God's will. The reader, like Isaiah Ross and Patric Gallo will be left to wonder about his or her own faith and just how deeply it resides within their soul. In the end there is the music of celebration as Kern returns home, both physically and spiritually. The spiritual aspects of this story are so impressive in fact that it is impossible for me to do justice to this side of the story. I can only say that I hope anyone who reads this review will give Lawrence McAuliffe's novel a try. I can not see how anyone could read this book and not be deeply moved.and just how deeply it resides within their soul. In the end there is the music of celebration as Kern returns home, both physically and spiritually. The spiritual aspects of this story are so impressive in fact that it is impossible for me to do justice to this side of the story. I can only say that I hope anyone who reads this review will give Lawrence McAuliffe's novel a try. I can not see how anyone could read this book and not be deeply moved.	2005-04-11
US	51167656	RQIPXK1KXV0R6	156955191X	267514159	Living the Catholic Faith: Rediscovering the Basics	Books	5	80	83	N	N	Basic Catholic Living	Anyone who follows any type of sports knows that the best teams or players, year in and year out are those that have most clearly mastered the fundamental basics of the sport. For years in American College football, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Alabama dominated the sport. These teams accomplished their goals, not by doing anything fancy or unusual but by simply lining up and running over their opponents. Put another way, they won by relying on the basics. Many Catholics, including myself could learn a valuable lesson from these football teams as we try to live our Catholic faith.<br /><br />Archbishop Charles J. Chaput has written a playbook to allow us as Catholics to get back to the basics of our faith and to more fully appreciate the scriptural authority behind these core teachings of the Church. He does this in a very appealing and straightforward way that is easy to understand and very easy to read. There is no heavy theological jargon nor are there any unexplained Latin terms in this book and even someone who is totally unfamiliar with the Catholic Church will have no trouble grasping the Archbishop's points.<br /><br />To his great credit, the Most Reverend Chaput takes on the issues he discusses head on and never swerves to avoid hurting someone's feelings. Almost any Catholic who reads this book will find that at least some of the author's arguments hit mighty close to home. The author also takes on the hard issues like abortion, contraception and suicide, issues that may be controversial in some quarters but which are at the heart of the Church's teachings on the sanctity of human life. The learned author also takes the time to explain in very clear terms some of the most basic tenants of the Christian faith and I found his point by point discussion of the Ten Commandments to be very enlightening.<br /><br />The Archbishop does all of this while relating it to the world that we live in today. I found his analogy of two twentieth century films to be particularly poignant and to be charged with unpopular truth. Sometimes the truth hurts but it does us a world of good in the long run.<br /><br />This book is highly relevant to the world today and especially to Catholics facing the challenges of the twenty-first century. The good Archbishop has given us a wonderful blueprint to follow as we try to live our faith and spread the gospel to the whole world.icularly poignant and to be charged with unpopular truth. Sometimes the truth hurts but it does us a world of good in the long run.  <br /> <br />This book is highly relevant to the world today and especially to Catholics facing the challenges of the twenty-first century. The good Archbishop has given us a wonderful blueprint to follow as we try to live our faith and spread the gospel to the whole world.	2005-04-10
US	51167656	R1WFVS1ZCYQXDE	0515087947	997569693	The Cat Who Turned On and Off	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Those Magisterial Cats	In this, the third offering in this series we find that our hero Jim Qwilleran has a new assignment with the Daily Fluxion. In the second book we saw him change assignments but for some reason there is no explanation for this change. Whatever the reason, Qwilleran is now a feature writer and has decided to do all that he can to win a writing contest sponsored by the Fluxion because he could really use the prize money to move out of the third-rate hotel he and his cats are occupying. A taxi driver mentions an area called Junktown to the writer who assumes that it is a high traffic narcotics area. That is just the kind of story that an old crime reporter can sink his teeth in to but alas, Qwilleran finds out that Junktown is really an antiquing area filled with junk stores.<br /><br />Reluctantly Qwilleran heads out for Junktown and quickly finds himself intrigued with the area and it's colorful collection of characters. The development of quirky and fun characters is an area in which this author excels and she may have outdone herself with this group. He also finds that a prominent Junker recently died in what the police have called an accident but the veteran reporter's mustache tells him that it was no accident. Soon, Qwilleran is not only involved with the people of Junktown but he rents an apartment from one of the junk dealers and he and the cats move right in.  The stories that he is generating from Junktown please his editor and he thinks that there is a good chance he will win the paper's prize money. But all the while he is still working to solve the mystery of the junk dealer's death.<br /><br />Shortly after his arrival in Junktown, Qwilleran's landlord is killed in an apparent fall while scrounging for goodies in an abandoned house that is about to be torn down. Again the police call it an accident and again Qwilleran is not so sure that it was accidental. Finally the cats do their thing and the whole case is cleared up but not before the cats once again save Qwilleran's life.<br /><br />This book, unlike it's predecessors is a little light on the mystery angle until the end of the book but as before, the clues are there all through the story. The reporter and the readers just seem to let them slip right by. Finally however, the reporter and the reader will began to put two and two together and figure out that there is definitely something fishy in Junktown.<br /><br />Once again Lilian Jackson Braun has produced a delightfully lighthearted mystery that I suspect any mystery lover will fall in love with. If you don't fall in love with the story you will assuredly fall in love with Koko and Yum Yum, super cats par excellence.save Qwilleran's life.<br /><br />This book, unlike it's predecessors is a little light on the mystery angle until the end of the book but as before, the clues are there all through the story. The reporter and the readers just seem to let them slip right by. Finally however, the reporter and the reader will began to put two and two together and figure out that there is definitely something fishy in Junktown.<br /><br />Once again Lilian Jackson Braun has produced a delightfully lighthearted mystery that I suspect any mystery lover will fall in love with. If you don't fall in love with the story you will assuredly fall in love with Koko and Yum Yum, super cats par excellence.	2005-04-05
US	51167656	R30B7BU5Y9TQDF	0684864770	176662108	When Trumpets Call: Theodore Roosevelt After the White House	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Bully!	Woodrow Wilson once said, \\" A man who makes no mistakes usually makes nothing at all.\\" Wilson in no way intended this statement to be used in praise of his fierce rival Theodore Roosevelt but I can think of no better description of the life of this Bull Moose of American politics. Roosevelt was a man of action and sometimes a loose cannon and Patricia O 'Toole has written a wonderful book which shows very clearly why this quotation so aptly fits TR.<br /><br />O 'Toole's book covers the last ten years of Roosevelt's life, a time of retirement for a man who was not yet ready to retire. She follows Roosevelt on his African safari, his triumphant tour of Europe, the split with President Taft, the 1912 campaign, the Brazilian expedition, World War I and his preparations to run for President again in 1920. It is a fascinating and enjoyable journey that one undertakes in reading this book and I am glad that this author has given me the chance to follow Roosevelt's journey in print for I doubt that I could have kept up with him in real life.<br /><br />The main thesis of this book is that Roosevelt had an overwhelming need for power and enjoyed conflict to the point that both of these weaknesses often clouded his judgment. The author makes her point very clearly and backs up her argument with hard evidence, giving the reader very little reason to doubt her argument. She is a little harsh on TR occasionally, especially when it comes to Roosevelt's split with Taft, but for the most part she is very fair and even handed. In the case of Roosevelt's support for the efforts of the government to suppress free speech during World War I and his backing of silly initiatives to ban all things German she is probably too soft on the old lion.<br /><br />Theodore Roosevelt is one of the icons of American history and it would be difficult for any author to make any part of this man's story dull. It is quite another thing however for an author to get inside the soul of Mr. Roosevelt and I believe that O 'Toole has done just that. From TR's habit of dismissing those who disagreed with him as unmanly or cowardly to the deep grief and guilt he felt when his son Quentin was killed in the war, this book will lead the reader to the depths of Roosevelt's soul. Although it only covers Roosevelt's post White House years this is the best biography of the old Rough Rider that I have yet to come across. Far superior in it's readability and energy to the Edmund Morris books.lt and I believe that O 'Toole has done just that. From TR's habit of dismissing those who disagreed with him as unmanly or cowardly to the deep grief and guilt he felt when his son Quentin was killed in the war, this book will lead the reader to the depths of Roosevelt's soul. Although it only covers Roosevelt's post White House years this is the best biography of the old Rough Rider that I have yet to come across. Far superior in it's readability and energy to the Edmund Morris books.	2005-03-31
US	51167656	R2X0MDCF8YDZ0H	0515087122	307023147	The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern	Books	5	8	9	N	N	And Introducing Yum Yum	Lilian Jackson Braun's second novel in the \\"Cat Who\\" series is not only a worthy successor to it's predecessor it is even better. Even though the writing was quite good in the first book the story seems to flow better in this book and there are less jerky movements in the story. And a very good story it is!<br /><br />When we last left veteran newspaper reporter Jim Qwilleran he was reporting on the art scene for the Daily Fluxion, an assignment that he wasn't thrilled with at first but one that he had warmed up to. Suddenly he finds himself with an assignment that he knows even less about than art, he will be covering interior design. He was, in fact, placed in charge of putting out a weekly magazine insert called \\"Gracious Abodes\\", an assignment that would lead him into another adventure with his faithful cat Koko.<br /><br />Since most decorators could use the publicity a newspaper spread on their work would provide Qwilleran has no trouble in getting help finding houses to profile. He first hooks up with decorator David Lyke who gets permission for the Daily Fluxion to do a photo shoot in a home occupied by an old money family that has more than the normal old money quirks. Just after the first edition of \\" Gracious Abodes\\" hits the streets the home in question is robbed of a valuable Jade collection. What's more, the lady of the house is found dead of an apparent heart attack, which police theorize was caused be fear during the burglary. Of course this incident makes the Daily Fluxion look bad, especially since the rival paper plays up the burglary. Qwilleran immediately suspects a set-up and even begins to suspect that his new girlfriend whom he found in another decorator's office is part of the plot. He gets really suspicious after the second edition of his magazine comes out and the next day the police raid the place. It turns out that his second featured home is a cat house, pun intended.<br /><br />Things get even more bizarre for the ace reporter when his neighbor and prime decorating contact David Lyke is murdered. The more Qwilleran sniffs around, the more he is convinced that he is being set-up but he can't quite put all of the pieces together. Once again, Koko saves the day by both pointing out the solution to the jade heist and also the key piece of evidence in the murder. Along the way, Koko manages to save Qwilleran's life and personally capture one of the suspects. This is one amazing cat!<br /><br />This is also the book that introduces the reader to Qwilleran's second cat, Yum Yum who enters the picture to keep Koko from engaging in the behavior that led to the title of the book. We only get a short glance at Yum Yum in this book but I feel sure that she will turn out to be just as clever as Koko which will make for even more interesting reading in the next installment.<br /><br />Altogether this book is whimsical, light and very fun to read. Also, as in the first book of the series the characters the reader will meet in this book are fantastic and colorful to say the least. Give this book a try and see what Koko can cough up for your enjoyment.when his neighbor and prime decorating contact David Lyke is murdered. The more Qwilleran sniffs around, the more he is convinced that he is being set-up but he can't quite put all of the pieces together. Once again, Koko saves the day by both pointing out the solution to the jade heist and also the key piece of evidence in the murder. Along the way, Koko manages to save Qwilleran's life and personally capture one of the suspects. This is one amazing cat! <br /> <br />This is also the book that introduces the reader to Qwilleran's second cat, Yum Yum who enters the picture to keep Koko from engaging in the behavior that led to the title of the book. We only get a short glance at Yum Yum in this book but I feel sure that she will turn out to be just as clever as Koko which will make for even more interesting reading in the next installment.  <br /> <br />Altogether this book is whimsical, light and very fun to read. Also, as in the first book of the series the characters the reader will meet in this book are fantastic and colorful to say the least. Give this book a try and see what Koko can cough up for your enjoyment.	2005-03-26
US	51167656	R38UOMNY0DN8JJ	0385501706	153082953	Lord, Have Mercy: The Healing Power of Confession	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Confession made Easier	Scott Hahn is quickly becoming one of the top Catholic writers in the United States and there is good reason for his success. His writing is clear and concise and he never assumes that his readers are extremely conversant when it comes to the subject he is writing about. Therefore, if he uses a Latin phrase he explains what it means and he never refers to a dogma or doctrine of the Church without at least explaining a little about it. Because of this his books are superb for not only devout Catholics but also for those who aren't well versed in the Catholic faith but are seeking answers. One must keep in mind however that Dr. Hahn is very much a traditionalist and there are some Catholic authorities that would argue with some of his opinions.<br /><br />One of the hardest things for most Catholics to do is to go to Confession. It wounds our pride and ego and is sometimes just downright embarrassing. In this book Dr. Hahn makes a very clear and easy to understand argument that regular Confession is not only desirable but also necessary. He describes sin as being like a disease that must be treated by Confession just like a physical disease needs to be treated by a physician. Just like a physical disease, sin if left untreated will grow worse and worse until it kills our relationship with God. This is a point that is very well taken and an idea that all Catholics would do well to think about.<br /><br />As pointed out by an earlier reviewer, the author doesn't make as strong of a scriptural case for Confession as he does for other Catholic teachings in his other books. Most of his scriptural citations come from the Old Testament and while I am not by any means questioning his basic point or the need for Confession, I would have liked a few more New Testament references. I would have also like to have found a little bit about a person's first Confession whether it be as a child or an adult convert. Such a chapter would have made this book far more appealing to someone who might be thinking about coming home to the Catholic Church. Confession after all is likely to be the biggest shock to the system of a new Catholic.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very good book that deals with a subject that many Catholics would like to forget about. I especially liked the \\"Examination of Conscience\\" found in the appendix of this book. That section alone makes the book worth the price I paid for the book and it will aid me a great deal in preparing for Confession. This is probably not Hahn's best book but should still be of great interest to anyone with an interest in the Catholic Church and I think that it will cause many Catholics to become more devoted to the Sacrament of Penance.meone who might be thinking about coming home to the Catholic Church. Confession after all is likely to be the biggest shock to the system of a new Catholic.  <br /> <br />Overall, this is a very good book that deals with a subject that many Catholics would like to forget about. I especially liked the \\"Examination of Conscience\\" found in the appendix of this book. That section alone makes the book worth the price I paid for the book and it will aid me a great deal in preparing for Confession. This is probably not Hahn's best book but should still be of great interest to anyone with an interest in the Catholic Church and I think that it will cause many Catholics to become more devoted to the Sacrament of Penance.	2005-03-22
US	51167656	R6L05GR1XXNWI	0515090174	103586426	The Cat Who Could Read Backwards	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Koko and the Man	My wife is a great lover of mystery books and she has been hounding me for a long time to read some of the books in the \\"Cat Who\\" series. I finally gave in and found that I enjoyed this first book of the series very much. Unlike many mystery novels this book is light reading with no sex, violence or profanity and the plot is not so laden with details that the reader gets bogged down with them. The plot is in fact just a little too light in some instances but I was so enthralled with the characters that I hardly noticed.<br /><br />The best thing about this book is the author's engaging style of writing. Even without the kind of plot that draws the reader completely into the story the writing style makes this book hard to put down. Furthermore, the characters are so fun and realistic that the reader will quickly become attached to them, which is a trait quite necessary for a long running series like this one.<br /><br />The primary human character is Jim Qwilleran, a top-notch investigative reporter who has apparently spent years in the newspaper business but because of his problems with alcohol has run out of job options. Having cleaned up his act he finds himself with a job offer from the Daily Fluxion but to his dismay finds that he will be covering the art scene for the features department. Soon he finds himself immersed in the art community, which is full of some very odd characters that don't like each other at all. Most importantly he meets his own paper's art critic whom almost nobody likes, including the bartender at the press club. It seems that the only being that likes the critic is his cat Kao K'o-Kung who also takes up with Qwilleran. Kao K'o-Kung or Koko for short is the cat of which the title speaks and he is an amazing cat indeed. The author has obviously spent a lot of time with cats for her description of their mannerisms is impeccable.<br /><br />Soon there is a murder in the art world and it is not who the reader will expect to be murdered. Qwilleran is on the story in a flash but is often wandering along the wrong track until Koko lends his help. After the case is solved one of the reporter's buddies asks him how it feels to play Dr. Watson to a cat and that is just how things seem to play out. The clues are there but neither Qwilleran nor I picked up on them until Koko basically waves them in our collective faces.<br /><br />The ending was just a little of a let down but the but the basic fun nature of the story and the extraordinarily entertaining characters more than make up for it. This book was just simply a delight to read and I intend to follow the exploits of Qwilleran and Koko into several more books.d. Qwilleran is on the story in a flash but is often wandering along the wrong track until Koko lends his help. After the case is solved one of the reporter's buddies asks him how it feels to play Dr. Watson to a cat and that is just how things seem to play out. The clues are there but neither Qwilleran nor I picked up on them until Koko basically waves them in our collective faces.  <br /> <br />The ending was just a little of a let down but the but the basic fun nature of the story and the extraordinarily entertaining characters more than make up for it. This book was just simply a delight to read and I intend to follow the exploits of Qwilleran and Koko into several more books.	2005-03-17
US	51167656	RUMQ0XBCXBAY3	0895872870	336097899	Haunted Halls of Ivy: Ghosts of Southern Colleges and Universities	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Educated set of Specters	Daniel W. Barefoot has traveled far and wide to put together this collection of ghost stories from the American South. In his travels he, or more particularly his wife, may have had a first hand encounter with one of these school spirits whose story he was seeking to tell. Fortunately for them, it wasn't the ghost of old Ben Tillman who seems to still wander the halls of Winthrop University in South Carolina.<br /><br />Barefoot is an accomplished writer of both history and ghost lore and this book is well written and the stories are told in a believable manner. There are parts of this book that seem to drag a little however and I can't really put my finger on the problem but these dry areas are few and far between and do not detract from the book much at all. The biggest problem is the lack of details given for some of the stories. The author often faces schools with several ghosts and he tries to cram all of the ghosts into three or four pages and in the process the story suffers. He could probably have doubled the size of this book without adding a single institution to his list.<br /><br />Still, this is an interesting book and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it. The author even managed to include my old haunted alma mater in his book, which of course added to my level of interest. Best of all, most of the stories contain recent eyewitness accounts which are the key to a good ghost story book.<br /><br />As one reads this book the old sense of what it was like to be a college student comes rushing back, the joy and angst, the anticipation and dread, and the feeling of being on your own for the first time. It is little wonder that many of the young people who have had their college experience cut short by death have decided to hang around campus for a little while longer.  It also came as no surprise that William Faulkner is still hanging around his home on the campus of Ole Miss.  I think that Faulkner, who loved ghost stories, would thoroughly enjoy this book, just as I did.ok, just as I did.	2005-03-11
US	51167656	R2HLR09MBZXONV	1557283885	492515211	Everything to Gain: Making the Most of the Rest of Your Life	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Blueprint for the Golden Years	As Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter left the White House in early 1981 they faced an uncertain future. Like many people who retire, they just weren't sure what to do with themselves and all of their free time. To make matters worse, they still had to deal with the hurt they felt after having lost the 1980 election. The decisions they made about their future have vaulted Jimmy Carter from having lost his bid for reelection in a decisive manner to one of the most beloved figures in the United States. In 1984 President Carter was no where to be seen at the Democratic National Convention, twenty years later Democratic Presidential candidates beat a path to Plains, Georgia to try and obtain his blessing. Along the way the Carter's learned many valuable lessons that apply to anyone who may feel that their productive years have passed. This book is the story of what they learned.<br /><br />This book was published in 1987 and was I believe President Carter's third post-Presidential book and Mrs. Carter's second book and both of them had become quite good writers. They are both open and honest about their feelings and concerns, especially Rosalynn and because of this their narrative reaches the reader on a very personal level. Many of the activities they describe were only possible of course because of the office Mr. Carter held and because of the Carter Center but they go to great lengths to point out many worthwhile activities that anyone can participate in. Reading this book will definitely make you stop and think about all of the things you could be doing to help others and I think that was the Carter's goal.<br /><br />Part travelogue and part handbook for volunteerism this book will give you the warm fuzzies all over. You will feel sad with the Carter's and laugh with the Carter's and you will feel as if you had known this former first couple for years. You will in fact feel like you have traveled with the Carter's and maybe even helped them build a Habitat house. If you are looking for a retirement gift for anyone, this would be a perfect choice!u are looking for a retirement gift for anyone, this would be a perfect choice!	2005-03-06
US	51167656	R2E5QFILJ8Q732	0893905402	344527171	What Every Catholic Needs to Know About Lent, Triduum, and Easter: A Parish Guide to the Paschal Season (Parish Guide to the Incarnation Season)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good but Maybe a Little too Concise	Every year when the season of Lent rolls around there are numerous stark changes in Catholic Churches all over the world. The Holy Water in the Church fonts disappears; there are no flowers in the Church and even the liturgy changes. Seasoned Catholics who regularly attend Mass never miss a beat and hardly seem to notice the changes but new Catholics or those who are infrequent attendees of Mass can find all of the changes disconcerting. This little booklet will go a long way toward helping clear up much of the resultant confusion.<br /><br />This is an easy to read booklet that will become for many a solid reference tool as it explains many Lent, Triduum, and Easter practices. The reader will find many traditions and scriptural mandates covered, from the scrutinies to hot Cross buns. There is even a recipe for pretzels near the end of the book. Unfortunately several things are not covered and some others are not dealt with in the detail they deserve. Basically, this book is far too short and could have easily been three or four times this size. Still, it is well written and will help answer many questions that may come up.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book for catechumens and candidates along with anyone else who may have an interest in becoming a Catholic. It would also be helpful for people who are not Catholic but who have Catholic family members or close friends as it will help explain why the Catholics in their lives are doing some of the things they do during this season. I might even buy this book for some of my non-Catholic friends and family so that they will not be offended when I refuse certain food or drinks during Lent because this is a book that would be easy for anyone to read and understand.	2005-03-01
US	51167656	R1GJ6H5RCQ44R	0195170342	74776758	Washington's Crossing (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Neither Rain nor Snow...	Many historians have in recent years picked up on the idea of so-called social history or what David Donald has called, \\"The intense study of the unexceptional.\\" Since I tend to agree with Donald's opinion of this new movement among historians I was dismayed to find that the Editor's Note promised (or warned) that this book was that kind of study.  Therefore I started this book with much trepidation and with the idea that I was not going to be impressed at all. I didn't have to read to many pages however before I found that my premonition of doom was very much a mistake, for there is very little in this book that I didn't find to be very enlightening and enjoyable.<br /><br />The author does spend a good deal of time writing about what the common soldiers of both armies were suffering through but he does it in such a way that it only adds flavor to the bigger story he is telling. One gets a real feel for the miseries of the night marches through mud, ice, snow and rain with inadequate shoes and clothing. As the story unfolds one has to wonder how the men of either army managed to survive the weather, let alone combat. The author also tells of the infamous treatment suffered by the civilian population of New Jersey at the hands of British and German troops. This behavior turned a fairly docile population into angry patriots and this contributed mightily to the success of later American efforts.<br /><br />Throughout most of this book Professor Fischer is very kind to George Washington and in the case of the disaster at New York perhaps too kind. On the whole though the author offers what seems to be a very credible picture of Washington the general and the trials he faced. In the modern age of instant communications it is hard to imagine that in 1776 Americans from different states had little in common except language and sometimes not even that. Washington faced a difficult task in fusing this disjointed group into an American Army but he did it and Fischer explains how. The author also clearly shows how Washington and his lieutenants learned from their mistakes and grew into their roles. The lessons learned in this campaign by Nathaniel Greene would become very important as the war wore on. It would also turn out to be very important that Lord Cornwallis failed to learn much at all from his Jersey experiences.<br /><br />Most important of all however is that the American cause that was about to collapse in mid December 1776 was on the offensive by the following spring. The thesis of this book is that the campaigns that started with \\"Washington's Crossing\\" were a turning point in American history and the author makes a very compelling argument for his thesis. The campaigns of the winter of 1776-77 are not often given the credit they deserve in deciding the outcome of the American Revolution, an error I have been guilty of myself. Reading this extremely informative, well-written and thoroughly researched book has made a believer of me and hopefully it will influence generations of historians yet to come.plains how. The author also clearly shows how Washington and his lieutenants learned from their mistakes and grew into their roles. The lessons learned in this campaign by Nathaniel Greene would become very important as the war wore on. It would also turn out to be very important that Lord Cornwallis failed to learn much at all from his Jersey experiences.  <br /> <br />Most important of all however is that the American cause that was about to collapse in mid December 1776 was on the offensive by the following spring. The thesis of this book is that the campaigns that started with \\"Washington's Crossing\\" were a turning point in American history and the author makes a very compelling argument for his thesis. The campaigns of the winter of 1776-77 are not often given the credit they deserve in deciding the outcome of the American Revolution, an error I have been guilty of myself. Reading this extremely informative, well-written and thoroughly researched book has made a believer of me and hopefully it will influence generations of historians yet to come.	2005-02-25
US	51167656	R20UHXJ1FORSMC	0738700037	289538697	Grave's End	Books	4	66	68	N	N	A Brooklyn Ghost Story	Over the years I have read enough ghost books to fill a small library, most of which are the familiar collections of several stories written by one author. Many of these writers are old pros and have a very polished writing style; sometimes a little too polished and detached in fact. Elaine Mercado is a new writer and sometimes it shows, but her candor and vulnerability is a refreshing change for the fans of this type of book. It is also nice to hear the story from the point of view of the person who experienced the haunting rather than a third party interviewer.<br /><br />The story begins as the author and her husband purchase a new home and move in. Almost from the outset the family begins to feel as if they are being watched and things escalate from there. All of the family is effected but the author and her eldest daughter seem to get the brunt of the storm. A storm that only intensifies as time goes on. To add to the problem, this is a family that does not particularly believe in any form of life after death and so they must also deal with what is happening in relation to their beliefs. After finally coming to terms with this conundrum they begin to seek help and find it in the form of famous Parapsychologist Hans Holzer. Dr. Holzer is very familiar to anyone who is partial to this type of book and I have several of his books in my own library. In many ways this is like one of Dr. Holzer's books except with a much more detailed description of the haunting before Holzer arrives on the scene. This is a ghost story that portrays in detail the haunting much more so than the investigation. I like it!<br /><br />This is a book that you will read very quickly because the author does a very nice job of making you wonder what is going to happen next. She makes the reader feel as if they know this family personally so that you will want to find out how things turn out. It does occasionally show through that this is the author's first book but not often and the story flows very smoothly. Mrs. Mercado does have a tendency to engage in a little too much psycho-babble which slows the book down a little in places but I can easily live with this in order to get this kind of first person account of a haunting. It is often said that the Devil is in the details and there are plenty of details here. I like that also.<br /><br /> I know the author doesn't want to have another first person account to write about but maybe she will find herself drawn to write about other people's experiences. I think that there is much potential here.y flows very smoothly. Mrs. Mercado does have a tendency to engage in a little too much psycho-babble which slows the book down a little in places but I can easily live with this in order to get this kind of first person account of a haunting. It is often said that the Devil is in the details and there are plenty of details here. I like that also.  <br /> <br /> I know the author doesn't want to have another first person account to write about but maybe she will find herself drawn to write about other people's experiences. I think that there is much potential here.	2005-02-19
US	51167656	R3KPKZELJEKGIX	0879735902	159431921	Catholic Etiquette: What You Need to Know About Catholic Rites and Wrongs	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Not Much Why but Plenty of How To	Kay Lynn Isca was raised a Protestant and is well aware that some Catholic practices and customs may be confusing to new Catholics and to some cradle Catholics as well. For Protestants with close Catholic friend's things can be particularly confusing if they are called on to attend Catholic weddings, funerals, or other events that are particular to the Catholic faith. This book is intended to relieve some of the anxieties of the confused and point out what is correct and what is not.<br /><br />Mrs. Isca writes in a very pleasing way and often makes her point with personal experiences. There is no doctrine or dogma here, just simple etiquette for various situations that may be faced both by Catholics and their friends and relatives. We all wonder sometimes whether a gift is appropriate in a certain situation and if so what kind of gift it should be. Most people are also faced with honorariums for weddings and funerals and have no idea how much should be given. During my former life in the funeral industry I was asked many times, \\"How much should we pay the preacher?\\" Those are among the many questions and concerns that the author deals with in this book. I found her chapter on children at Mass to be very informative and would highly recommend that any new parent take the time to read this chapter. Of course I would also recommend this chapter to anybody else who has a tendency to grouch about noisy children in Church.<br /><br />I did find one thing in this book that bothered me and it involves a practice that I and most of the Catholics I know are in the habit of. Mrs. Isca says this practice is wrong and she may well be right but she never explains why it is wrong. It would have helped the author's credibility a great deal had she explained her statement at least a little. This was the only thing in this book that I didn't find to be right on the mark and also very helpful. The author even deals with the proper response for a Catholic caught in several situations that might cause hard feelings if handled incorrectly. For example, if a Catholic attends a dinner party on a Friday during Lent and finds themselves being served a plate of beef should they eat it or leave it and risk offending their non-Catholic host?<br /><br />This book will be helpful to all Catholics who read it but more so for new Catholics. It will be worth it's weight in gold to someone who is planning a mixed wedding or to any non-Catholic who has a close Catholic friend or family member. I know there are going to be times that my Baptist wife may have to rely heavily on this book. There is nothing deep or theological here, just some plain common sense advice on the etiquette of the Catholic Church.ions that might cause hard feelings if handled incorrectly. For example, if a Catholic attends a dinner party on a Friday during Lent and finds themselves being served a plate of beef should they eat it or leave it and risk offending their non-Catholic host?  <br /> <br />This book will be helpful to all Catholics who read it but more so for new Catholics. It will be worth it's weight in gold to someone who is planning a mixed wedding or to any non-Catholic who has a close Catholic friend or family member. I know there are going to be times that my Baptist wife may have to rely heavily on this book. There is nothing deep or theological here, just some plain common sense advice on the etiquette of the Catholic Church.	2005-02-12
US	51167656	R3QDY5VPUFKNCV	0446614157	187020463	The Myrtles Plantation: The True Story of America's Most Haunted House	Books	5	63	67	N	N	Plantation Phantoms	Being just a little skeptical of The Myrtles I mainly picked up this book because I very much enjoyed this author's previous book filled with ghost accounts from across the country. Now that I have read this book which is written with such sincere conviction and forthright honesty I am convinced that The Myrtles is indeed a very haunted place.<br /><br />Frances Kermeen and her husband Jim bought The Myrtles in 1980 with the intent of being innkeepers and they appear to have been very successful in that enterprise. So successful in fact that they had several guests that just wouldn't leave. As she relates the story of her often frightening experiences at The Myrtles Ms. Kermeen come across as one of the most sincere authors that I have come across when reading this type of book. She holds nothing back and gives the reader the whole story no matter how hard it must have been for her to write about. Interestingly it is this author who finds out that some of the legends surrounding the plantation are incorrect and through much hard work she pieces together what really happened which actually may have pacified some of the spirits.<br /><br />What happened to the author and her family and friends at The Myrtles is so fascinating that I basically read this book in one sitting. Just like a great novelist, Ms. Kermeen manages to make the reader really begin to care about the people in the story and one begins to worry about what may happen to them next and it becomes very hard to put this book down.  The only negative to be found in this book is the author's sometimes-condescending attitude toward Southern traditions regarding marriage and manners. That type of attitude is why we Southerners are so leery of people who move in from other parts of the country but this small foible takes very little away from the book as a whole. This author's first book was quite good but I have never seen any author's writing skill improve so much between first and second books. I am sure that the personal feeling that she poured into this book will make it a classic for years to come.<br /><br />If you wonder what it is like to live with ghosts or if you just like a good ghost story then this is a book you will definitely want to read. The story of The Myrtles will make you laugh, cry and duck your head under the bed covers. I hope that Ms. Kermeen will continue her research into the supernatural and will give us many, many more books like this one. This is very close to being the perfect ghost story book.e that the personal feeling that she poured into this book will make it a classic for years to come. <br />  <br />If you wonder what it is like to live with ghosts or if you just like a good ghost story then this is a book you will definitely want to read. The story of The Myrtles will make you laugh, cry and duck your head under the bed covers. I hope that Ms. Kermeen will continue her research into the supernatural and will give us many, many more books like this one. This is very close to being the perfect ghost story book.	2005-02-05
US	51167656	R2HIO01TUD4INE	0807128090	17116630	The Fredericksburg Campaign: Winter War on the Rappahannock	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Tragic Tale	In my humble opinion Frances O'Reilly is one of the foremost experts in the study of the Battle of Fredericksburg. I had never heard of the man until I read this book but his this book is clear proof of his expertise. As an added bonus, the author has a clear and concise writing style and he keeps his story interesting even while spouting vast amounts of minute information.<br /><br />From the very beginning it should be understood that this is not a book for the Civil War novice or the casual reader. Much of the information in this book is very detailed and it would turn off or confuse anyone who is not very familiar with the armies involved in this campaign. Not only do names fly at the reader at a rapid pace but there is also the behind the scenes politics of both the nation and the armies along with exact regimental placements. This is also not a book for anyone with a weak stomach for O'Reilly goes into great detail in describing many of the more horrendous wounds suffered by many of the participants. Over and over the author relates stories of flying blood, brains, and intestines. This is not to say that the gore takes away from the story for it indeed brings home the very nature of war and one can't understand Fredericksburg or the Civil War without a sense of the horrors these men were facing. O'Reilly also adds depth to his book by including many stories from the common soldier on the field, stories that are both humorous and poignant.<br /><br />On the other hand, the author covers the big picture in a very complete way and he pulls no punches. It is made very clear for example that much of the blame for the carnage at Fredericksburg rests with Abraham Lincoln and that Lee and Jackson made a terrible mistake in placing their line, a mistake that almost led to a major Union victory. It is also made very clear that General Burnside's whole plan of attack was based on a faulty premise. That being that Lee had spaced his army evenly over their eight mile front even though Longstreet's half of the army held an area with huge natural advantages for the defender. As it turned out, Longstreet held six miles of the eight-mile front while Stonewall Jackson's men held only the remaining two miles. Still, with the huge hole the Confederates had left in their lines Burnside might have been successful except for the sad performance of most of his generals. Even the highly regarded John Reynolds let Burnside down and only George Meade stood out in his performance.<br /><br />I have been to Fredericksburg and have walked the battlefield. I have also read other treatments of the battle but until I read this book I didn't really understand what had happened. This is undoubtedly the definitive work on this subject and it will remain so for years to come. The amount of research and work that the author has put into this book is staggering and the final result is a masterpiece of Civil War scholarship. Any serious student of the war in the east not only should but also needs to read this book.front even though Longstreet's half of the army held an area with huge natural advantages for the defender. As it turned out, Longstreet held six miles of the eight-mile front while Stonewall Jackson's men held only the remaining two miles. Still, with the huge hole the Confederates had left in their lines Burnside might have been successful except for the sad performance of most of his generals. Even the highly regarded John Reynolds let Burnside down and only George Meade stood out in his performance.  <br /> <br />I have been to Fredericksburg and have walked the battlefield. I have also read other treatments of the battle but until I read this book I didn't really understand what had happened. This is undoubtedly the definitive work on this subject and it will remain so for years to come. The amount of research and work that the author has put into this book is staggering and the final result is a masterpiece of Civil War scholarship. Any serious student of the war in the east not only should but also needs to read this book.	2005-02-03
US	51167656	RJTSAN212B48G	0743203941	950793123	1912: Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft and Debs -The Election that Changed the Country	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Interesting Thesis but Little Proof	In 1912 four of the giants of American politics faced each other in one of the most interesting presidential elections in the history of the United States. James Chace has chosen this election as the topic of his latest book and he weaves his story in a most pleasing way. Anyone who enjoys a good story will enjoy this book and it doesn't matter if the reader knows anything about this election and the players involved or not for the author has laid out all of the main details in a very clear way.  Unfortunately, due to complexity of the story and the limited length of this study there is very little depth or new information to be found here.<br /><br />Chace does an excellent job of introducing his readers to the players and to the basics of the story, but that is about as far as it goes. A volume twice this length could easily be produced that studies only the campaign for the Democratic or Republican nomination so these events as well as many others do not get the attention that they deserve. Even more distressing is that Chace never even gets close to making a sound argument that this election was \\"The Election that Changed America.\\" His argument seems to be that had the Republicans nominated Roosevelt they would today be the party of progressivism instead of conservatism. Chace completely ignores the fact that the real shift had occurred sixteen years before this when the Democrats had stepped to the left by nominating William Jennings Bryan in 1896. The author makes no allusion to the fact that since 1896 many conservative eastern Democrats had migrated to the GOP and their presence had driven the Republicans even further right making Roosevelt's nomination in 1912 almost impossible.<br /><br />The author does argue that Roosevelt and Wilson fundamentally changed the Presidency, pushing the office along the road to today's imperial Presidency. On this point Chace seems to be correct but Roosevelt had already been in office and only Wilson's part in this theory is dependent on this election. The rest of Chace's theory is just not presented in a very convincing way.<br /><br />If convincing people that the election of 1912 did indeed change America is the author's goal he has failed and he would have been far better off if he had left the subtitle out. On the other hand he has told the story of this election in a very nice way. This book is a good place for anyone interested in the politics of America in the early twentieth century to begin their exploration of the subject. There are also some very interesting chapters dealing with Eugene Debs and his Socialists but most of the material on the other candidates has been done to death. In short, I enjoyed this book but found very little new information or critical analysis. It is well written but not the definitive work on the subject by any means.ory is dependent on this election. The rest of Chace's theory is just not presented in a very convincing way.  <br /> <br />If convincing people that the election of 1912 did indeed change America is the author's goal he has failed and he would have been far better off if he had left the subtitle out. On the other hand he has told the story of this election in a very nice way. This book is a good place for anyone interested in the politics of America in the early twentieth century to begin their exploration of the subject. There are also some very interesting chapters dealing with Eugene Debs and his Socialists but most of the material on the other candidates has been done to death. In short, I enjoyed this book but found very little new information or critical analysis. It is well written but not the definitive work on the subject by any means.	2005-01-23
US	51167656	RV3QETA9IKDMT	0740747177	591332204	Ghosts Among Us: True Stories of Spirit Encounters	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Rule Number Two	I was well pleased with Leslie Rule's first collection of ghost stories and in this her second collection of paranormal stories she has again hit the mark. Once again she is aided by her very pleasing writing style and her convictions about her subject. Her stories are crisp, clear and very believable however some of her stories are still a little bit short on details. The little snippets about \\"Ghosts in the News\\" are entertaining but I would rather have done without them and had a few more details in her other stories. I also ran across a few typos but these are the editor's fault rather than the author's.<br /><br />On the positive side, Ms. Rule again visited the places she wrote about and included some wonderful photographs she had made during her visit. There are also numerous recent eyewitness accounts to be found in this book which also helps to lend a great deal of credibility to the book.  I was also very impressed with the range of stories in this book. All too often writers in this area tend to use only secondary sources and just basically re-tell the same old stories over and over again. One ghost book author I have run into tends to tell his stories almost word for word like previous authors and gets by with it by crediting the previous author in his bibliography. There is none of that with Leslie Rule and very few of her stories deal with the famous and well-worn haunts that tend to show up in book after book.<br /><br />I was particularly impressed with the stories emanating from the Ted Bundy killings. These stories were a little skimpy on haunting details but extremely interesting nonetheless. Given that the author's mother was a friend of Ted Bundy, Leslie would seem to be the perfect instrument to research and maybe publish an entire book dealing with any hauntings left by Bundy's rampage.<br /><br />No matter if it deals with Bundy or not, I am looking forward to future ghost books by Leslie Rule. She has the talent and zeal to become one of the foremost writers in this field.ne of the foremost writers in this field.	2005-01-19
US	51167656	R1J9ZLSKGWPPXD	0807050202	650257865	Dark Tide: The Great Boston Molasses Flood of 1919	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Death by Molasses	Syrupy, sweet, sticky molasses have long been a favorite treat in America. Actually they were more than a treat because for many years molasses were America's primary sweetener. They also were the base ingredient for rum, America's primary beverage in colonial times. It was in fact a tax on molasses that first aroused colonial ire against Parliament. Molasses were also irrevocably associated with Boston because of the famous triangle trade of molasses, rum and slaves. It was no accident then that United States Industrial Alcohol had a distillery near Boston and therefore decided to build a huge molasses storage tank near Boston harbor.<br /><br />Stephen Puleo has done a masterful job in this book of telling the story of this storage tank; it's construction, use, disintegration and the aftermath.  This is a story not just of a disaster but of the social tensions of that era and the callous disregard for human life displayed by big industry in search of war profits. Puelo however, has also managed to make this the story of the victims of this tragedy. The story is riveting in itself but the author's ability to give a human face to the disaster makes this book not only an interesting read but a touching one as well.<br /><br />United States Industrial Alcohol (USIA) used molasses to make it's product and that industrial alcohol was in turn used by companies like DuPont to make smokeless gunpowder and high explosives for artillery shells.  World War I had greatly increased the demand for industrial alcohol and as USIA increased it's production they decided that they needed this molasses storage tank. As Puleo tells his readers about the construction of the tank he begins to introduce his audience to some of the people who lived and worked near by. The reader will see the tank placed in a very congested area and the author will explain why it ended up there. He will also show how construction was rushed, poorly tested and never inspected. Basically it was a disaster waiting to happen.<br /><br />When the inevitable did happen and the tank collapsed 2.3 million gallons of molasses surged out in a wave 35 feet high. It is hard to imagine the horror of drowning in molasses but that is exactly what happened to some people while others were crushed in obliterated buildings. Puleo gives us not only the stories of surviving family members as they searched for their loved ones buy also many amazing stories of survival as described by those who were badly injured but survived.  The anguish, fear and desperation felt by these people as they struggled to survive is related here with as much feeling and drama as will be found in any novel. The court case that followed is also told in a wonderfully readable way, which is not an easy task when dealing with often-tedious legal arguments. The case against USIA ended up setting a precedent that from then on would force large companies to take responsibility for their actions and for this reason alone this is an important event in American history.<br /><br />Mr. Puleo has brought us the story of this important event and has done so in a very enjoyable book. His descriptive abilities are strong and his writing style captivating. Pictures of the scene of destruction only add to the drama. The molasses flood of 1919 is seldom remembered today but it is an important event in American history. Maybe this book will help to restore this event to it's proper place in the public mind.er waiting to happen.  <br /> <br />When the inevitable did happen and the tank collapsed 2.3 million gallons of molasses surged out in a wave 35 feet high. It is hard to imagine the horror of drowning in molasses but that is exactly what happened to some people while others were crushed in obliterated buildings. Puleo gives us not only the stories of surviving family members as they searched for their loved ones buy also many amazing stories of survival as described by those who were badly injured but survived.  The anguish, fear and desperation felt by these people as they struggled to survive is related here with as much feeling and drama as will be found in any novel. The court case that followed is also told in a wonderfully readable way, which is not an easy task when dealing with often-tedious legal arguments. The case against USIA ended up setting a precedent that from then on would force large companies to take responsibility for their actions and for this reason alone this is an important event in American history.  <br /> <br />Mr. Puleo has brought us the story of this important event and has done so in a very enjoyable book. His descriptive abilities are strong and his writing style captivating. Pictures of the scene of destruction only add to the drama. The molasses flood of 1919 is seldom remembered today but it is an important event in American history. Maybe this book will help to restore this event to it's proper place in the public mind.	2005-01-12
US	51167656	R3GK51OEDTJM5	0395659949	278691326	Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822-1865	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Justice for General Grant	It is hard to imagine that Ulysses S. Grant could still be controversial 140 years after the end of the Civil War, but judging by the reviews posted for this book one has to assume that this is the case. As a native of the American South it would be easy for me to join in with the negative reviewers but I was quite impressed with this book. While I must respect all opinions expressed in this forum and assume that all reviews are honest and sincere, I can't help but suspect that some of the unhappiness with this book is rooted in a dislike for Grant.<br /><br />First of all, I found the author's writing style to be quite good and very readable. There were to be sure a few dry areas but not many. Unfortunately, most of those dry areas are to be found early in the book and that may explain why some readers were turned off. The author has also mastered the use of quotes, which seems to be a problem area for many historians. When Professor Simpson uses a quote it is used in perfect context and it is always just the right length. Many historians have the bad habit of including far too many quotes that are far too long and end up distracting the reader so this author's mastery of the technique was a welcome relief. Simpson has also done an excellent job of researching his subject although the Southern point of view is conspicuous in it's absence.<br /><br />Simpson is fond of his subject as are most biographers but he does not hesitate to criticize Grant when criticism is called for. For example, Grant's claims that he was not surprised at Shiloh are treated with the contempt such claims deserve. The author makes it very clear that Grant was indeed surprised and that his claims to the contrary are pure nonsense. Simpson also spends a great deal of time handling the questions about Grant's drinking habits. Grant has been trashed for years as a drunk; an attack that overlooks the fact that within the 19th century military hard drinking was the norm and not the exception. Simpson does not in any way dismiss the drinking charges however and at times the professor makes it abundantly clear that he does not really believe Grant's version of some of the events that may have involved alcohol. On the other hand, Simpson points out that Grant was absolutely not the alcoholic that many make him out to be.<br /><br />Overall, Simpson has given us a very clear portrait of General Grant. The reader will see both Grant's weaknesses and his strengths. Most clearly one begins to see a man whose greatest asset was his self-confidence. This was a man who had faith in his own judgment but was more than willing to make changes in his plans as events he couldn't control came into play. He was probably not a greater tactician than many other Civil War generals were, but he made things happen. For example, General Rosecrans had devised a plan to relieve the siege of Chattanooga before Grant arrived. Grant adopted much of this plan but the difference was that Rosecrans drew up a plan but failed to act while Grant set about breaking the siege with a vengeance. In short, the tender hearted Grant, who almost wept at the sight of wounded and dead soldiers understood how to wage a modern war better than any other Civil War commander. Simpson has done a very commendable job of shedding light on this complicated, yet very straightforward man.. Simpson does not in any way dismiss the drinking charges however and at times the professor makes it abundantly clear that he does not really believe Grant's version of some of the events that may have involved alcohol. On the other hand, Simpson points out that Grant was absolutely not the alcoholic that many make him out to be. <br /> <br />Overall, Simpson has given us a very clear portrait of General Grant. The reader will see both Grant's weaknesses and his strengths. Most clearly one begins to see a man whose greatest asset was his self-confidence. This was a man who had faith in his own judgment but was more than willing to make changes in his plans as events he couldn't control came into play. He was probably not a greater tactician than many other Civil War generals were, but he made things happen. For example, General Rosecrans had devised a plan to relieve the siege of Chattanooga before Grant arrived. Grant adopted much of this plan but the difference was that Rosecrans drew up a plan but failed to act while Grant set about breaking the siege with a vengeance. In short, the tender hearted Grant, who almost wept at the sight of wounded and dead soldiers understood how to wage a modern war better than any other Civil War commander. Simpson has done a very commendable job of shedding light on this complicated, yet very straightforward man.	2005-01-04
US	51167656	R1JYHJ2O5D162A	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent Study of His Excellency	Over the last thirty years or so there has been an effort among some historians to put a human face on some of the more revered figures in America's history. Many of these historians have pointed out that some of these so-called marble men have been placed on a pedestal so high that they have ceased to be human and on this point they are quite correct. They are also correct in pointing out that once we look at these people as human beings instead of icons their accomplishments are all the more amazing. Unfortunately some of these historians, in trying to correct old myths have decided that the only way to reverse hundreds of years of positive misinformation is to rip their subject's reputation to shreds. And since Virginia has always been very good at promoting it's heroes, three Virginians have come under the most withering fire. Namely these icons of history are Thomas Jefferson, Robert E. Lee, and George Washington.<br /><br />Joseph Ellis, who has written several very successful books has performed this revisionist surgery on George Washington in this his latest book but in a much more skillful manner than some of his predecessors. Yes, Ellis has pointed out his subject's faults and has in particular studied Washington's role as a slave owner but he places everything in the context of Washington's time. In many ways the author shows us just how much Washington grew and changed over time. He learned from his mistakes, which was more than a lot of his more educated contemporaries were able to do and by the time of his death in 1799 many of his ideas were well ahead of their time. Early on in fact, Washington was able to see that the financial system that most Virginia planters operated under was going to trap them under a massive debt. Washington escaped while many other planters, including Jefferson did not.<br /><br />Growing up relatively poor, Washington was obsessed with money and it was that obsession that eventually brought him into conflict with English law. This same obsession also helped him eventually reach his conclusions about slavery for he saw that for Virginia planters the slave system was a loosing proposition. That of course made it much easier for him to begin to see the moral problems posed by the slave system.<br /><br />Washington's other great obsession was his legacy and not only was he apt to make decisions based on what posterity might think, he often went back and edited his papers in order to put his best foot forward. This editing, along with Martha's destruction of their personal letters after Washington's death has made it difficult for historians to really know Washington. Ellis has however done an excellent job of research and I think he has drawn the best picture possible for this work of limited scope. The author writes in a very pleasing manner and this book is written so that anyone with the barest knowledge of Washington's time can not only understand what the author is trying to say but can also enjoy the experience. This is Washington with some of the excess marble chipped away but with the impressive frame of the man left intact. In other words, this is revisionist history the way it should be written.sh law. This same obsession also helped him eventually reach his conclusions about slavery for he saw that for Virginia planters the slave system was a loosing proposition. That of course made it much easier for him to begin to see the moral problems posed by the slave system. <br /> <br />Washington's other great obsession was his legacy and not only was he apt to make decisions based on what posterity might think, he often went back and edited his papers in order to put his best foot forward. This editing, along with Martha's destruction of their personal letters after Washington's death has made it difficult for historians to really know Washington. Ellis has however done an excellent job of research and I think he has drawn the best picture possible for this work of limited scope. The author writes in a very pleasing manner and this book is written so that anyone with the barest knowledge of Washington's time can not only understand what the author is trying to say but can also enjoy the experience. This is Washington with some of the excess marble chipped away but with the impressive frame of the man left intact. In other words, this is revisionist history the way it should be written.	2004-12-22
US	51167656	R1LRKEV29XU89N	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	99	102	N	N	A Masterpiece of Civil War History	It would be an almost impossible task for anyone to figure out just how many books have been written dealing with the American Civil War. It would also be difficult to determine which Civil War historians are most often cited by their peers but there is no doubt that Bruce Catton would be near or more likely at the top of any such list. The reason for this is quite simply that Catton was one of the great historical writers of all time. Very few people can take their readers into the heart of an army, both those of it's soldiers and leaders like Catton and even fewer convey their story in the very clear and easy to read style that this author has mastered. To read this book of pure history is in many ways like reading a historical novel and even the reader who already has a firm grasp on the historical facts of this story will sometimes find themselves wondering what happens next.<br /><br />This is the story of the last campaign of the Army of the Potomac, that Ill-fated army that had so often been humiliated by Robert E. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia. This campaign was to be different however because there was a new man calling the shots and having a man like U. S. Grant at the helm made all of the difference in the world. It took Grant a while though to convince this often badly led army that he was any different than his predecessors. Different he was however and once he locked horns with Lee he wasn't going to let up until one army or the other was destroyed. In other words Grant understood what had to be done and he was determined to do it.<br /><br />Catton's main field of study was this man Grant but one of the author's most endearing qualities is that he makes no effort to whitewash or hide his subject's faults. Catton also does not attempt to build Grant up by tearing away at Lee like many of the more recent Grant biographers have done. He simply makes Grant's greatness apparent by telling the story the way it happened and it doesn't take long for the reader to figure out what an outstanding general Grant was.<br /><br />The author has done a lot of searching through soldier's letters and memoirs as well as regimental histories and this leads to a very personal perspective of the last year of the war. The stories he has gleaned from these sources are poignant, somber, gleeful and funny. For example, one entire brigade falls out of the final advance upon Lee's army to chase down and cook some chickens that have been scattered by artillery fire. I think it was Napoleon who said something about an army traveling on it's stomach.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Civil War. The hard core Civil War reader will find new information here and the casual reader will find that this book is fun to read and no one should have a problem following the story. If Amazon allowed six stars this is one of the few books that would qualify.or the reader to figure out what an outstanding general Grant was.  <br /> <br />The author has done a lot of searching through soldier's letters and memoirs as well as regimental histories and this leads to a very personal perspective of the last year of the war. The stories he has gleaned from these sources are poignant, somber, gleeful and funny. For example, one entire brigade falls out of the final advance upon Lee's army to chase down and cook some chickens that have been scattered by artillery fire. I think it was Napoleon who said something about an army traveling on it's stomach. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Civil War. The hard core Civil War reader will find new information here and the casual reader will find that this book is fun to read and no one should have a problem following the story. If Amazon allowed six stars this is one of the few books that would qualify.	2004-12-14
US	51167656	R1TF5556D90XQ	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Jekyll and  Hyde (Mostly Hyde) Without the Potion	Almost from the day that this novel was first published in serial form it has caused controversy and debate. It was immediately condemned as an immoral work that did not follow the custom of showing that evil deeds would in the end bring punishment to the evil doer. Just those evil deeds, which were acted out by Dorian Gray, were enough in themselves to scandalize Victorian society. Then, just as his novel was about to be published in book form Oscar Wilde added fuel to the fire by adding a preface that seemed to indicate that there was absolutely no hidden meaning or moral lesson to be found in this book. Apparently, according to the preface, it was simply art for the sake of art. The fires have raged ever since and I'm sure that the author's spirit has enjoyed every second of it.<br /><br />The fact is that the reader can read almost anything he wants to into this work and there have been almost as many interpretations as there have been readers. I found myself intrigued by a passage that is spoken very early in the book by the artist who has painted the now famous picture. This painter, Basil Hallward by name, tells a friend that, \\"every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not the sitter. The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. It is not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on the colored canvas, reveals himself.\\" Just what might this book have revealed about Oscar Wilde? Or could this book have been a dark commentary on London's high society of which Wilde does not paint a pretty picture? Maybe this book was indeed as written Wilde wrote in his preface and he had no deep purpose but just wanted to tell a good story. Better minds than mine have pondered this question and have arrived at no conclusive answer to the problem. I have however learned one important thing about this book as I have read it. That being that if one reads this book without worrying about it's implications they will find it a very enjoyable read.<br /><br />Dorian Gray is first introduced to the reader as a young man who was exquisitely handsome and wealthy but he had had a rough childhood. The thing he remembers most about the Grandfather who raised him in such a harsh manner was that he was old. This may well have played into what became of the young man although he would almost certainly not have sank to such depths of depravity had he not met Lord Henry Wotton. For the life of me I can not fathom what Dorian Gray saw in Lord Henry for he comes across as a loathsome, self-centered, tiresome know it all. Gray however becomes enamored of Wotton however and slowly adopts Wotton's theories of pleasing oneself no matter the consequences to others.<br /><br />The real change begins in Gray after an act of particular curliness for which he is already feeling sorry when he arrives home. It is not long until he notices a change in his recently finished portrait, a portrait that was in the beginning as handsome as Gray but suddenly was marred by a cruel mouth. Gray couldn't believe his eyes but suddenly it dawns on him that this picture will bear the scars of his sins and of the passing years. He himself will remain forever young and beautiful no matter how he conducts his life.  As I mentioned above, some critics bemoaned the lack of punishment for Gray's acts but I found that there were indeed consequences for his actions. By the end of the book, Gray has become almost mad from the knowledge of his sins and actually seems to long for death. The very picture that has given him eternal youth haunts his every thought for he knows that the picture shows the wretched condition of his soul. That is about all that I believe I can say without giving away the ending and I hate people who do that.<br /><br />Overall I enjoyed this book but Wilde's characters were given to long tedious philosophical pronouncements that only added to my detestation of these pompous blow hards. I can't say that I wouldrank this book among the all time classics and much of the time the reader will not be able to locate a plot with a team of bloodhounds. Still, if you can get through the dry areas there is often a rich oasis waiting on the other side.t I would rank this book among the all time classics and much of the time the reader will not be able to locate a plot with a team of bloodhounds. Still, if you can get through the dry areas there is often a rich oasis waiting on the other side.	2004-12-04
US	51167656	R2O0HN7F9O70XA	0743270339	919271476	Sharing Good Times	Books	5	47	53	N	N	Fun with the Family Carter	Former President Jimmy Carter's latest book is in many ways and addendum to some of his earlier works and it includes many stories that will be found in those previous works. In this book however, Carter adds to and builds on those previous stories and in a few cases adds details that he probably left out of his earlier books on purpose. President Carter may seem like an austere and serious individual but as one follows his adventures in this book his lighthearted and fun-loving side becomes obvious. In many instances I was reminded of the perpetual adolescence of Teddy Roosevelt.<br /><br />In this book the former President chronicles many of the, \\"Good Times\\" in his life. He writes of vacations, side excursions to business trips, and his numerous hobbies. It seems that even on the most serious trips that President Carter makes for the Carter Center he takes at least some time for his hobby of bird watching. This is an addictive hobby that I share with Mr. Carter and can fully relate to his excitement when first spotting a new species. My wife often notes that around our house the birds will always have food whether we do or not.<br /><br />The real story behind these tales of adventure however is the story of how the former President learned to fully include his family and friends in his adventures. Most Southern men who grew up in the pre World War II South have the common trait of being somewhat aloof. There is no doubt that these men love their families but they have a very hard time expressing or sharing that love. My father was born about ten years before President Carter and shared this same problem with him. I have found that sometimes I even have a little problem in this area and from both my own experience and my experiences with my father I can relate very well with Jimmy Carter's struggle. I have learned, as has Mr. Carter, that shared fun is the best kind of fun and I applaud the former President for the open way he has addressed this problem in this book.<br /><br />Despite the serious nature of this book's main plot, this book is a very fun read. The more Mr. Carter writes the better he is at it and this may be his must enjoyable book yet. The stories are generally about activities that almost everyone can relate to right down to late night 'coon hunts. I once visited President Carter's church and watched as he showed off the TV stand he had made for the church. He talks about his woodworking in this book and admits that is one of the hobbies he enjoys pursuing alone. He does enjoy sharing the fruit of his labor with others though and I think he was as proud of that TV stand as he is of the Camp David Accords. Thankfully he also shares his private hobby of writing with the rest of us and he can be just as proud of this book as he is of that TV stand.this book.  <br /> <br />Despite the serious nature of this book's main plot, this book is a very fun read. The more Mr. Carter writes the better he is at it and this may be his must enjoyable book yet. The stories are generally about activities that almost everyone can relate to right down to late night 'coon hunts. I once visited President Carter's church and watched as he showed off the TV stand he had made for the church. He talks about his woodworking in this book and admits that is one of the hobbies he enjoys pursuing alone. He does enjoy sharing the fruit of his labor with others though and I think he was as proud of that TV stand as he is of the Camp David Accords. Thankfully he also shares his private hobby of writing with the rest of us and he can be just as proud of this book as he is of that TV stand.	2004-11-26
US	51167656	R1ZEAVJ4U4PP0B	0446577812	426424398	RISE, Let Us Be on Our Way	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Inspiration and Instruction	I think that it is incumbent on me to preface this review by admitting that it would be extremely difficult for me to award a book written by the Holy Father anything less than five stars. The very high regard I feel for the Papacy and the current occupant of that office may very well cloud my judgment and anyone who reads this review should keep that in mind.<br /><br />That said, I found this to be a very well written and interesting little book. John Paul II wrote this book for the most part as a book of instruction for his Bishops. Within it's pages he lays out in a very clear way what he thinks the duties of a Bishop are and he does this by telling the story of his years as a Bishop in Poland. The Pope makes it very clear that while the first priority of a Bishop is to preach the Gospel, he must also be a shepherd to his flock. Again and again His Holiness hammers on this point and makes it very clear that he expects his Bishops to get out of their office and be among the people. He is very proud of the fact that even with his Pontifical duties he has visited almost every Parish under his official care as Bishop of Rome.<br /><br />This book would never have been published in this manner however if it were only useful to Bishops and there is indeed much information here for everyone else. Many people of all faiths are fascinated by the Pope's struggle with the Communist authorities in Poland and many of the stories in this book deal with that subject. There are also a fair number of accounts of the Nazi occupation and the brave efforts of the Polish people to rid themselves of this curse. There is little doubt that the writings of this Pope will be invaluable to future historians as they delve into 20th century Europe. These stories of a courageous people who risked so much in the pursuit of freedom, not only to worship but also the freedom to live their lives in a free and open society are truly inspiring.<br /><br />Finally, this book although written for the Bishops is not written in a way that will put off the average reader. With the exception of a few references to Church documents that bear their titles in Latin there is little here that will be out of reach to almost any reader. Catholics will of course find this book to be more interesting than will other faiths but people of almost any religious inclination will be able to find inspiration here. This book may be small but it packs a huge punch.or the Bishops is not written in a way that will put off the average reader. With the exception of a few references to Church documents that bear their titles in Latin there is little here that will be out of reach to almost any reader. Catholics will of course find this book to be more interesting than will other faiths but people of almost any religious inclination will be able to find inspiration here. This book may be small but it packs a huge punch.	2004-11-24
US	51167656	R2C3YKAQKOD1H6	1578066611	422180289	Stories from the Haunted South	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Spooky Old South.	Alan Brown has traveled far and wide to do interviews and research so that he could put together a very interesting collection of Southern ghost stories. I know this because he was kind enough to include a bibliography that not only includes his personal interviews but also his secondary sources. I appreciate this because it lists several books that aren't in my collection and that I never even knew about and which will now swell my wish list.<br /><br />There are a few problems to be found in this book but overall I enjoyed it very much. There are some typos and a few historical errors that need to be fixed in future editions but they are fairly minor. The biggest problem is to be found in the most promising part of the book. The author gives directions and phone numbers for most of the sites he discusses which is always a plus for me. The directions however are sort of fuzzy and I'm not sure that they would help me locate a site without stopping to ask for directions. I am sure also that many of these places have web sites but Brown for some reason doesn't give them. Having those web addresses would have improved the book quite a bit.<br /><br />On the positive side the book is fairly well written and it kept my interest although there is not much of a chill factor in the stories. The most attractive aspect of this book is that there are many recent eyewitness accounts included. Some of the events described occurred less than a year before the book was published. I can not overstate how important these recent eyewitness accounts are to the credibility of this type of book and on this point Brown gets an A+. Another plus is that most of the stories to be found here are lesser know stories and not the same old hauntings that one tends to read about in almost every book of this type. I was particularly happy to find the story of the, \\"Bunnyman Bridge\\" which I had heard about but had never run across in a book. Now that I have a general idea about where this site is I may just pay it a visit some day. Of course I will probably have to stop and ask for directions because yet again the directions in the book were not too clear.<br /><br />There is also a good balance between the history of a site and the history of the haunt itself. Often the authors of this type of book get carried away with history and forget the haunt or operate in reverse and give the reader no idea why the place might be haunted. Brown however gets it just about right and seems to provide all of the relevant details.<br /><br /> Overall this is a good book and while it will not scare the reader it will provide a lot of useful information. A superb read for a ghost hunter or ecto-tourist.is I may just pay it a visit some day. Of course I will probably have to stop and ask for directions because yet again the directions in the book were not too clear.  <br /> <br />There is also a good balance between the history of a site and the history of the haunt itself. Often the authors of this type of book get carried away with history and forget the haunt or operate in reverse and give the reader no idea why the place might be haunted. Brown however gets it just about right and seems to provide all of the relevant details. <br /> <br /> Overall this is a good book and while it will not scare the reader it will provide a lot of useful information. A superb read for a ghost hunter or ecto-tourist.	2004-11-18
US	51167656	RAO8GCI8CX5JN	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Finch and the Mockingbird.	This superb book contains several moral lessons and subtly points out faults that many of us share. Most importantly, we must follow our conscience and do what we know is right no matter the possible cost. That takes a great deal of courage and most of us have at one time or another failed in this respect. Harper Lee's Atticus Finch on the other hand was more than up to the task even though most of the town and his family were against him. Lee makes no effort to hide the fact that often there will be consequences for those who take a stand and those consequences will not always be pleasant.<br /><br />Atticus Finch is not the main character of this story however. The main characters are Atticus' son Jem and his daughter Scout who tells the story. I advise that you forget looking for the moral implications of the story for they are evident and it is much easier to enjoy this book if you just read it and don't try to dissect it.  Jem (Jeremy) and Scout (Jean Louise) are probably the most interesting literary children since Tom and Huck and some of their adventures will remind the reader of Twain's creations. In short, this book is just plain fun to read and I regret terribly having waited so long to read it!<br /><br />During most of the story the children's adventures tend to revolve around the Radley house and it's most sinister occupant, Boo (Arthur) Radley. Boo is a recluse that hasn't been spotted out of his house by a reliable source in many years and of course the rumor mill in a small town has turned him into a monster that eats raw squirrels. In the end, the Boo Radley story line presents the reader with yet another moral lesson but the trail that leads to this lesson takes many interesting twists and turns.<br /><br />One will also find a very good description of the twentieth century South in Lee's work. From sleeping on the porch in the Summertime to watching the old men loaf around the courthouse I can honestly say I have been there and done that. Class distinction has always been very important in the South and Harper Lee works hard to bring that distinction out. Thankfully African-Americans are currently judged on their merit and not their race so that they fall into the caste system all up and down the ladder. In the 1930s though things were much different. The three lowest rungs on the ladder were poor white trash (the Cunninghams) and low down white trash (the Ewells), with blacks at the bottom. The significance of this being that at that point in time even the lowest whites would be believed over any African-American.<br /><br />Atticus Finch was for his time and place a fairly odd bird and thank God that there really were Finches out there to look out for the mockingbirds of the world.Class distinction has always been very important in the South and Harper Lee works hard to bring that distinction out. Thankfully African-Americans are currently judged on their merit and not their race so that they fall into the caste system all up and down the ladder. In the 1930s though things were much different. The three lowest rungs on the ladder were poor white trash (the Cunninghams) and low down white trash (the Ewells), with blacks at the bottom. The significance of this being that at that point in time even the lowest whites would be believed over any African-American.  <br /> <br />Atticus Finch was for his time and place a fairly odd bird and thank God that there really were Finches out there to look out for the mockingbirds of the world.	2004-11-17
US	51167656	RRO75HTW2SUCF	0195167716	960527707	Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800 (Pivotal Moments in American History Series)	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Battle of the Titans.	The election of 1800 is notable for many reasons. It was an electoral tie, it led to the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and it was an election in which both sides feared that the election of the other party could lead to the end of the United States.  Of even more importance however was that this election signaled a basic realignment of the American electorate and a growing sense of tension between Northern Merchant interests and Southern agrarian interests. The election of 1800 also marked the first time that a member of the opposition party had ousted the sitting head of state without bloodshed and for all intents and purposes this election ended the political career of Alexander Hamilton.  For these reasons this election is one of the most important events in American history and a book like this is long overdue.<br /><br />When I first picked up this book I was afraid I was not going to like it at all. After having read some of the reviews of this book I decided that Mr. Ferling had written this work in a dry, pompous academic style and for some reason the dust jacket reinforced that idea. I am pleased to say however that I really enjoyed this book and found it to be well written and very well researched. The author has gone through numerous collections of personal correspondence, Congressional records, and apparently even court transcripts so that he might properly tell this story.  Unfortunately some of the facts about this election will never be known due to closed door caucuses and purposely destroyed correspondence. Where the evidence survives however, Ferling has sniffed out the story and given us a lively account of this fascinating election.<br /><br />I was glad to find that the author was very even handed in his approach to this topic. Since he had previously written a biography of John Adams I would not have been surprised to find that Mr. Ferling was unable to shed the all too common biographers bias toward their subject. Happily however, Mr. Adams' faults are discussed just as often as those of Jefferson and Burr are.  Alexander Hamilton is the only major player in this story that comes across in an almost entirely negative light but even friendly Hamilton biographers agree that this was not Hamilton's finest hour.<br /><br />It is certain that John Adams is slowly being rehabilitated by history and this book like most recent studies of this time period is fairly complimentary of the second President. On the other hand Jefferson's reputation has been on a downward spiral but thankfully Mr. Ferling does not add to Jefferson's current woes. This election may not have been the Virginian's finest hour either, but as the author points out the most questionable of Jefferson's actions may have been in the best interest of his country. Sometimes moderation is indeed a virtue and we all might do well to remember that lesson and apply it to today's problems.lts are discussed just as often as those of Jefferson and Burr are.  Alexander Hamilton is the only major player in this story that comes across in an almost entirely negative light but even friendly Hamilton biographers agree that this was not Hamilton's finest hour.     It is certain that John Adams is slowly being rehabilitated by history and this book like most recent studies of this time period is fairly complimentary of the second President. On the other hand Jefferson's reputation has been on a downward spiral but thankfully Mr. Ferling does not add to Jefferson's current woes. This election may not have been the Virginian's finest hour either, but as the author points out the most questionable of Jefferson's actions may have been in the best interest of his country. Sometimes moderation is indeed a virtue and we all might do well to remember that lesson and apply it to today's problems.	2004-11-11
US	51167656	R25D0HYH56PHIA	0870492322	885205424	Shiloh--In Hell before Night	Books	5	5	6	N	N	After Shiloh the South Never Smiled Again.	With all of the books that have been written about America's Civil War it is almost a tragedy that the battle at Shiloh has been so overlooked. Both Generals Grant and Sherman insisted that this engagement was among the most important battles in the history of the United States. Grant even went as far as to place Shiloh amongst the most important battles in the history of the world.<br /><br />In this book, James Lee McDonough has given us a long overdue scholarly study of this highly important battle. It is a short account but it's slightly more than two hundred pages are packed with information. The author has spent untold hours studying not only the \\"Official Record\\" but numerous personal diaries and regimental histories to put together a fascinating account of this action. Numerous accounts are given from the point of view of the participants from Privates to Generals and these accounts cover everything from the Confederate march to Shiloh to the blood soaked gory scenes on the battlefield after it was all over. McDonough also manages to give the reader an idea of the order of battle without getting so bogged down in details that he leaves the reader dazed and confused. This is truly a well-written and easy to read account of the battle of Shiloh.<br /><br />Most of the book concentrates on the first day of the battle and the second day is given too little attention. The second day actually gets only about twenty pages of coverage although the author does an excellent job of describing what was happening given that he used so little space. The maps were excellent and for someone not familiar with many Civil War figures the pictures of the various leaders would be helpful. The illustrations are pretty much useless however since it is hard to make out what is depicted.<br /><br />McDonough goes to great lengths to show just how negligent that Grant and Sherman in particular were in allowing themselves to be so surprised by the Confederate attack. Once the battle started however, they were both jolted back to reality and performed admirably. Had the Confederates smashed the Union army as they well could have at Shiloh the author points out that Grant and Sherman would almost certainly have both been forced out of the army. One can only imagine how differently the war might have turned out if the Union had lost these two fine commanders.<br /><br />The Confederate commanders also come under the author's scrutiny and many of them come are the target of a good deal of criticism. Even the normally dependable John Breckinridge made his share of mistakes at this battle but it is Braxton Bragg that is McDonough's goat. What chance the badly organized Confederate attack had of success was lost as Bragg wasted the cream of the army in frontal assaults on the sunken road at the Hornet's Nest. Basically this turned into a contest that would be won by the side that made the fewest blunders and the author spends a good deal of time describing most of these numerous mistakes.<br /><br />The Civil War fanatic will find that this is among the best works on this important battle. A book five times this long could be written about Shiloh and still not do this battle full justice, but this is a start. The casual student of the Civil War or American history in general will also find this book to be highly informative and useful. McDonough makes no attempt to write over people's heads and in fact writes this book almost as if it were a novel. Make no mistake though, this is history and history at it's finest.battle started however, they were both jolted back to reality and performed admirably. Had the Confederates smashed the Union army as they well could have at Shiloh the author points out that Grant and Sherman would almost certainly have both been forced out of the army. One can only imagine how differently the war might have turned out if the Union had lost these two fine commanders.  <br /> <br />The Confederate commanders also come under the author's scrutiny and many of them come are the target of a good deal of criticism. Even the normally dependable John Breckinridge made his share of mistakes at this battle but it is Braxton Bragg that is McDonough's goat. What chance the badly organized Confederate attack had of success was lost as Bragg wasted the cream of the army in frontal assaults on the sunken road at the Hornet's Nest. Basically this turned into a contest that would be won by the side that made the fewest blunders and the author spends a good deal of time describing most of these numerous mistakes.  <br /> <br />The Civil War fanatic will find that this is among the best works on this important battle. A book five times this long could be written about Shiloh and still not do this battle full justice, but this is a start. The casual student of the Civil War or American history in general will also find this book to be highly informative and useful. McDonough makes no attempt to write over people's heads and in fact writes this book almost as if it were a novel. Make no mistake though, this is history and history at it's finest.	2004-11-06
US	51167656	R37UZNY2LW2F50	1570721033	974810200	Mysterious Knoxville	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Ghosts of Big Orange Country.	I have read and reviewed several of Mr. Price's books and I have almost always had the same complaint. That complaint being that Cherokee mythology and old wives tails do not belong in books that purport to be about ghosts. Usually Mr. Price's books have the word haunted somewhere in the title but this book is a different story. This book is about, \\"Mysterious Knoxville.\\" Therefore I could not complain when the very first story was another legendary tale from the Cherokee because that story was perfectly within the range of this book. Despite the first chapter however, this book contains more actual ghost stories than most of the author's books and it is quite frankly one of Mr. Price's best efforts.<br /><br />The author does have a tendency to resort to sweeping historical generalities, which are not always very accurate. He also makes at least two historical statements that are just plain false but I suppose generalities can't be avoided in a rather short book such as this one. The historical errors concerning John Sevier and William Sanders should be corrected though if there are future editions.<br /><br />As I have stated in my earlier reviews of Mr. Price's work this author has a very pleasing writing style that is both informative and entertaining. To put it simply, his books are fun to read. This book, much more so than some of his other books, is almost exclusively dedicated to ghost stories. Some of the stories involve old buildings that are long gone but many are current haunts that continue to this day. Price has interviewed numerous eyewitnesses and their accounts lend a heavy dose of credence to his stories. These stories include ghosts that haunt the University of Tennessee, the Bijou Theater and a young woman's mobile home. Being a southern city Knoxville also has it's share of Civil War ghosts, including a doctor murdered in cold blood by Yankee troops of occupation.<br /><br />This may be Mr. Price's best book yet and Knoxville does indeed seem to be a very haunted town.d seem to be a very haunted town.	2004-11-01
US	51167656	RKLA181HJEKBY	1575870924	759568041	Lighthouse Ghosts	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Ghost Lights Run Amuck.	For the millions of people who have fallen under the magical spell of America's lighthouses this is a book that really belongs on your shelf. The author has filled this book with not only ghost stories but also the history and personality of thirteen of America's most beautiful lighthouses. For the ghost enthusiast however, this will be light reading at best.<br /><br />The ghost stories to be found in this book are interesting but are lacking in detail. There are some recent eyewitness accounts, which are always good, but the author seems to lack any real feeling for her subject. Each story is treated as a lighthearted story told just for fun instead of being a factual account of a real haunting. The words \\"maybe\\" and \\"perhaps\\" appear far to often in this book.<br /><br />One chapter deals with the haunted light of Presque Isle, which has come under recent scrutiny. Some scientists have accounted for the mysterious light from a very explainable source but their investigation raised more questions than it answered. Apparently some very strange things happened while this team was at the lighthouse and while they could explain the light, they couldn't explain the other phenomena.  Another chapter deals with the Hatteras sightings of the ghost of Theodosia Burr. The story is well told and more than one version of legend is presented but the author plays somewhat fast and loose with the historical facts concerning Burr's famous father. Another chapter deals with a pipe smoking ghost that suddenly changes to a cigar smoker at the end of the story. This is something that the editor should have caught.<br /><br />Overall this is an interesting book and it can easily be read in one sitting. Lighthouse lovers will be far more enchanted with the book than will ghost hunters but even the ghostly crowd will find some good background information here. Best of all, at the end of each chapter there are directions to the site along with an address and sometimes a web site. It wasn't what I was hoping for but my time and money weren't wasted at all.t wasn't what I was hoping for but my time and money weren't wasted at all.	2004-10-30
US	51167656	R3N4C4GIQYXAHW	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sweet Home Transylvania	Let us suppose that it is 3:00 AM and you just can't sleep. You decide to get up and turn on the television for a little while still thinking that you might get sleepy.  Don't be at all surprised if you find Count Dracula lurking on a local station or a cable movie channel. Among fictional characters, the Count has probably appeared in more movies and mini-series than have any of his fictional counterparts. It is probably not even close.<br /><br />Before Bram Stoker wrote this novel in 1897 he did tons of research. After learning all that he could of the vampire legends he combined the stories and married them to a very real 15th century figure named Vlad Dracula and a horror legend was born. Without Stoker and his work the modern fiction reader might well have never known Stephen King and Anne Rice.  Even today, despite all of the fiendish characters that have flashed before us, no other character holds the lasting allure of Stoker's Count.<br /><br />Stoker tells his story by using the journals and diaries of the Count's protagonists. Those, along with some letters and newspaper clippings tell the whole story and the Count is never directly heard from. Actually, outside the first few chapters, the Count makes very few actual appearances in this book. His presence hangs over the book from the first to the last, but he seldom shows up himself.<br /><br />The story begins with Jonathan Harker as he travels to Castle Dracula to meet with the Count about some property the Nobleman has just purchased in London. At first all seems normal to Harker but soon he begins to figure out the astonishing truth. From there Stoker builds his story from climax to climax as the narrative slowly builds to a conclusion. Along the way there is little rest for the reader for each new climax starts to build just as the preceding climax is attained. From Harker's initial attempt to escape Castle Dracula, to the streets of London and back to the very shadows of the castle, the story builds to the final showdown with Count Dracula.<br /><br />I first read this book over twenty-five years ago and decided that with Halloween almost upon us it was time to read it again. Over twenty-five years one tends to forget parts of a book, especially if during that time one has watched a lot of movies that are only loosely based on that book. After reading Stoker's masterpiece again I am reminded that as of yet no movie has followed the true story line all that faithfully. I am also reminded that in this, as in most cases, the book as far better than any film adaptation.to the final showdown with Count Dracula.<br /><br />I first read this book over twenty-five years ago and decided that with Halloween almost upon us it was time to read it again. Over twenty-five years one tends to forget parts of a book, especially if during that time one has watched a lot of movies that are only loosely based on that book. After reading Stoker's masterpiece again I am reminded that as of yet no movie has followed the true story line all that faithfully. I am also reminded that in this, as in most cases, the book as far better than any film adaptation.	2004-10-29
US	51167656	R2I16LPY7F7DR	089870569X	257269664	Born Fundamentalist, Born Again Catholic	Books	5	193	202	N	N	A Remarkable Journey	David Currie was born into an evangelical family, was raised by parents who were both teachers at Moody Bible Institute, attended evangelical schools and married into another evangelical family. Early on in this book he writes of two experiences that clearly reveal the mindset he grew up with. It seems he had a crush on a girl but knew he could never date her because she was a Methodist and Methodists were too far away from his belief system to even allow him to date her. Also, as he walked home from school on the day that President Kennedy was killed, the sixth grader was sad not only because of the death but also because he was sure this Catholic president was in Hell. Clearly, David Currie had a long road to travel before he could end up a Catholic himself.<br /><br />The beauty of this book comes from Currie's extensive evangelical education. Because of this education, the author is able to explain evangelical theology in a very clear and easy to understand manner. Starting from that point he then looks at Catholic theology and compares and contrasts the two. Therefore this book is useful to a Catholic who wishes to further understand evangelical beliefs as well as an evangelical who wishes to study the Catholic Church. This book will also be of great help to the new Catholic or those thinking of converting or becoming reconciled according to this author.<br /><br />With the authors deep knowledge of evangelical as well as Protestant theology he is able to very deftly explain why he thinks the Catholic Church is the more Biblical. All of his points are very clear and well taken and more importantly, easy to grasp. I dare say that even cradle Catholics would learn a few things about their Church by reading this book. For anyone who is thinking of moving to the Catholic Church from a Protestant tradition this book is essential reading. Currie starts out from the Protestant perspective and then, taking the Bible and the writing of the Church fathers he moves over to the Catholic view. It is a step by step and very clear process and will do wonders at clearing up questions that any Protestant will have. For example, chapters three to five will go a long way in explaining the structure of the Church and it is accomplished in a way that any Protestant will understand.<br /><br />There are some subjects that are a little deeper than others are and the reader will often want to check the scripture cited by the author and this is not a book for someone without any Christian background at all. Furthermore, many evangelicals and fundamentalists may find this work offensive as it time and again questions the very basics of their faith. On the other hand, these same people may be challenged to think out the theology of their church. Maybe they will come away with a stronger faith than before and maybe they will see things the way Currie did. Either way, they will have learned something and that is always good. For Catholics, we can never learn all there is to know about the Church, but this book will certainly help us along that road.over to the Catholic view. It is a step by step and very clear process and will do wonders at clearing up questions that any Protestant will have. For example, chapters three to five will go a long way in explaining the structure of the Church and it is accomplished in a way that any Protestant will understand.  <br /> <br />There are some subjects that are a little deeper than others are and the reader will often want to check the scripture cited by the author and this is not a book for someone without any Christian background at all. Furthermore, many evangelicals and fundamentalists may find this work offensive as it time and again questions the very basics of their faith. On the other hand, these same people may be challenged to think out the theology of their church. Maybe they will come away with a stronger faith than before and maybe they will see things the way Currie did. Either way, they will have learned something and that is always good. For Catholics, we can never learn all there is to know about the Church, but this book will certainly help us along that road.	2004-10-21
US	51167656	R2T5YM858U9Q6V	0895870061	406231944	Outer Banks Mysteries and Seaside Stories	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The Great Legends of the Outer Banks	Charles H. Whedbee has an obvious love for the Outer Banks of North Carolina and a strong reverence for the many legends that have arisen there.  His strong feelings for the area come through strongly in his work and make reading this book a delight.<br /><br />This is, as the title suggests, a collection of folklore from the Outer Banks. This is not a book of ghost stories and it never pretends to be. There are ghost stories to be found in this book and they are well told and documented but for the most part they are well-worn stories like the Maco light and the gray man. If you are looking for a book of Outer Banks ghost stories this book will be a disappointment, but as I stated before, this book never purports to be a ghost story book. I have picked up many books that advertise themselves as ghost books only to find that they mostly contain folklore. That tactic really bugs me but when a book is sold as folklore, and it contains good stories like this book does I find that I really enjoy the read.<br /><br />While reading this book you will be introduced to legends that run the gambit from Indian folklore, to witches and warlocks, to an old live oak filled with rum. You will also find out the story behind the little orange-yellow flowers that are so prevalent on the islands and the ceremonial Christmas drum that saw action at the battle of Culloden. You will even learn where to go to listen for the haunting song of the Queen of the Sounds.<br /><br />The Outer Banks have always been isolated and have developed a culture that is unique. Before you make a trip to this beautiful area you will want to read this book. It will give you some ideas as to things you might want to see as well as some things you might want to avoid. Best of all though, it will give you a feel for and an understanding of the people of the Outer Banks and their traditions. I assure you that reading this book will add a great deal of body to your Outer Banks vacation.	2004-10-18
US	51167656	R1J7BY4GFX32KN	0895872579	974498460	Seaside Spectres (North Carolina's Haunted Hundred, 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Dismal Swamp Freak and Company	In the preface to this book the author writes that he was first intrigued with this kind of book during his childhood as he read books by a trio of well-known authors of this type of book. Among the books he mentioned was a book by Nancy Roberts that also led to my fascination with ghost stories. I immediately knew that I had found a kindred spirit, pun intended.<br /><br />There are a few flaws that I found in this book but the obvious respect the author holds for his subject matter more than make up for any shortcomings. There are very few recent accounts by witnesses to be found in this book and those accounts always add greatly to this type book. There are also a few stories that have nothing at all to do with ghosts and that always gets under my skin. Much to the author's credit however, it is very clear that he has an open mind on the subject of ghosts and is not writing a simple collection of what he views as pure folklore. That kind of condescending attitude can ruin the best of ghost books and it is not present here at all.<br /><br />Daniel Barefoot takes his readers on a spiritual journey all along North Carolina's coast, an area where supernatural events are to be found in abundance. He has done an excellent job of avoiding ghost stories that have been told and retold in numerous other books and only the story of, \\"Aunt Nora\\" was familiar to me. Considering the many North Carolina ghost books in my collection that in itself was quite a feat for this author. Also, Barefoot tells his readers how to reach some of the sites he writes about, especially if the reader will be likely to see something that is mentioned in the story.  On a recent trip to coastal North Carolina I passed very close to some of the points mentioned and I really wish I had read this book before my trip.<br /><br />Barefoot's writing style is very pleasing and it takes no time to breeze through this book. At the end you will find yourself wanting more and I'm happy to say that there is more to be had. This is only volume one in a series of three volumes that cover every county in North Carolina. Maybe I'll get the other two volumes for Christmas.<br /><br />Read this book on a cool windy October evening like I did and you will almost be able to hear the Tar River banshee as she wails outside your window. You might even catch a glimpse of Whit Stallings as he checks to make sure you are not after his treasure.here is more to be had. This is only volume one in a series of three volumes that cover every county in North Carolina. Maybe I'll get the other two volumes for Christmas.  <br /> <br />Read this book on a cool windy October evening like I did and you will almost be able to hear the Tar River banshee as she wails outside your window. You might even catch a glimpse of Whit Stallings as he checks to make sure you are not after his treasure.	2004-10-17
US	51167656	R2J789GS1VRG07	0809141949	907217832	Now That You Are a Catholic: An Informal Guide to Catholic Customs, Traditions, and Practices, Revised and Expanded	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Basics of the Catholic Faith.	The title of this book may be a little deceptive because much of what is covered by Father Kenny will be very familiar to the new Catholic. For example, a good bit of the RCIA process is discussed and since the new convert will have just passed through this process the explanation offered here would be somewhat repetitive. Most of the information contained in this book should in fact be covered as the new convert passes through the RCIA.<br /><br />For someone contemplating conversion or just beginning the RCIA process however this book could be an invaluable resource. As mentioned above, much of the RCIA process is discussed which will help the candidate a great deal as they pass through this process. Things a Priest or sponsor might take for granted about the process are clearly explained and knowing what to expect is sometimes half of the battle.<br /><br />Many other topics are also discussed that will be of great help to anyone contemplating a move to the Catholic Church.  Most people don't think too much about buying a Bible for instance but for someone who is new to Christianity it can be a daunting task. It can also be very perplexing to a lifelong Protestant who is converting but Father Kenny very clearly explains what to look for and the differences between the Protestant and Catholic versions. Also covered in a concise but clear manner are Catholic marriages, Confession, Catholic organizations, the liturgical year, funerals, religious orders, and the Mass. All these things can be very confusing to the new Catholic but are clearly explained in this book. Much to his credit, Father Kenny even takes the time to discuss various tensions within the Church. This is probably not something that the new Catholic needs to focus on but this book will help prepare the reader for when they are faced with these debates and this is something they will eventually have to face.<br /><br />This is a short book and it covers none of its topics in great detail but is more of an introduction to Catholic life. Not just life in the Church is covered, but also the day to day life of a Catholic. Occasionally Father Kenny fails to mention that some Catholic practices that are no longer required by the Church are still practiced by many of the faithful and assumes that all Catholics have conformed to the more lax standards which is not always the case. For example, the Church has dropped the requirement of abstaining from meat on all Fridays, only requiring this practice on certain Fridays through the year. Many Catholics however, myself included, still feel compelled to honor this tradition as a reminder that the crucifixion occurred on Friday. Maybe the good Father doesn't want the Church to seem too rigid to new members of the faith but things like this should be pointed out in this type of book.<br /><br />Overall this is a very good book and also a very helpful one. I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the Catholic faith. Afterwards the reader might want to delve more deeply into some of the subjects covered but this book will go a long way toward introducing you to Catholicism. Many books covering religious subjects raise more questions than they answer but this book will lay a solid foundation and create a desire for further study. It is no wonder that this little book has sold so many copies.more of an introduction to Catholic life. Not just life in the Church is covered, but also the day to day life of a Catholic. Occasionally Father Kenny fails to mention that some Catholic practices that are no longer required by the Church are still practiced by many of the faithful and assumes that all Catholics have conformed to the more lax standards which is not always the case. For example, the Church has dropped the requirement of abstaining from meat on all Fridays, only requiring this practice on certain Fridays through the year. Many Catholics however, myself included, still feel compelled to honor this tradition as a reminder that the crucifixion occurred on Friday. Maybe the good Father doesn't want the Church to seem too rigid to new members of the faith but things like this should be pointed out in this type of book. <br /> <br />Overall this is a very good book and also a very helpful one. I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the Catholic faith. Afterwards the reader might want to delve more deeply into some of the subjects covered but this book will go a long way toward introducing you to Catholicism. Many books covering religious subjects raise more questions than they answer but this book will lay a solid foundation and create a desire for further study. It is no wonder that this little book has sold so many copies.	2004-10-16
US	51167656	R3EQJW5QL07TBR	0971100047	974681508	Memories of Mayberry: A Nostalgic Look at Andy Griffiths Hometown, Mount Airy, North Carolina	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mayberry, U.S.A.	Hardly anyone who has been exposed to television over the last forty years has not come in contact with the good people of Mayberry. Walk up to most people on the street and ask them to name three justices of the U.S. Supreme Court and you just might get a blank stare. Ask the same person to name three residents of Mayberry, North Carolina and very few people will have a problem. Andy, Barney, Opie, Aunt Bea, Otis, Goober and Floyd have become so much a part of American culture that to most of us they are just like family. Mayberry is as real to most people as Chicago or Los Angeles and almost everybody knows that you have to go to Mount Pilot to get Chinese food.<br /><br />Mayberry of course is not a real place but is instead a product of Andy Griffith's mind. Griffith's mind was however heavily influenced by his hometown and Mount Airy, North Carolina has become to most people, the real Mayberry. Jewell Kutzer grew up in Mount Airy and is just a few years younger than Andy. This book therefore, depicts on a very personal level the Mount Airy that has become America's most famous small town.<br /><br />Many of the stories that are related in this book had a very obvious influence on the happenings in Mayberry. One story involves a young man who went on a small crime spree that included throwing rocks through most of the windows at the school. The authorities kept catching the young man but he would escape from jail almost as quickly as they locked him up. It all sounds a lot like Earnest T. Bass to me. If you remember Barney's very off key rendition of, \\"Welcome Sweet Springtime\\" you will not be surprised to learn that this song was a favorite of Andy's grammar school music teacher. Over and over, as one reads this book, they will be reminded of some happening in Mayberry.<br /><br />There are many stories in this book that do not relate to Mayberry at all but are personal reminiscences of the author. At first I felt like these stories should not have been included since I bought this book to learn about Mayberry. As I read however, I changed my mind for these stories add greatly to the reader's ability to relate to life in a small southern town. Thank you Mrs. Kutzer for giving us all the chance to feel like we grew up in Mayberry just like you and Andy.included since I bought this book to learn about Mayberry. As I read however, I changed my mind for these stories add greatly to the reader's ability to relate to life in a small southern town. Thank you Mrs. Kutzer for giving us all the chance to feel like we grew up in Mayberry just like you and Andy.	2004-10-15
US	51167656	R3KQ5RTKVCPXB8	0679601996	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Modern Library)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Masterpiece for All Times.	Every year amusement parks around the world spend millions of dollars trying to build the biggest and fastest roller coasters.  These parks seek to give their visitors the greatest thrills possible on these rides without actually endangering the riders and thrill seekers flock to these parks by the thousands in order to take what they hope will be the ride of their lives. My advice is to skip the long trips and even longer lines and take a ride with Alexander Dumas and Edmond Dantes. No technology known to man can match the excitement and adventure you will thus find.<br /><br />Make no mistake; this will be a long and sometimes bumpy ride. Dumas occasionally will drop his reader into a chapter that seems to have no relevance to any of the chapters before it. After a while though, it will all become crystal clear as this master storyteller weaves his magic. There will be twists and turns that the reader will not be able to foresee and in the end you will marvel at the scope of the story and the extent of both the vengeance and kindness of the story's hero.<br /><br />As with many great works of literature, there have been many film adaptations of this book. Some were of course better than others were but none of these films come close to doing this book justice. If you have watched any or all of these films, be prepared to find that the book will often only resemble the films in that the characters have the same names. At least the characters that make it into the films will have the same names but many of the characters in the book never make it into the films. This book is simply too rich and too deep to be captured on film. To really experience Dumas' work you simply must read the book.<br /><br />This is a story of love lost, of deception, jealousy and murder. Within this book the reader will find villains so vile that they seem almost inhuman but when their downfall comes it is so terrible that one almost feels for these wretched creatures. All through the book the reader sees the story building to a climax, but it builds slowly. So slowly in fact that the reader will be almost on the edge of his or her seat as they wait for the inevitable falling of the ax. When the final act does finally come, the reader will know the characters so well that they will almost be able to feel their agony. On the other hand, the reader will also see that the Count's victims would not have become victims but for their own greed and pride. The traps laid by the Count simply would not have worked had not his victims been ruled by same vices that led them to wrong Dantes in the first place. As with all great works of fiction, the moral lessons are there, but buried under the surface so that they don't interfere with a great story.<br /><br />This is indeed a great story.the book the reader sees the story building to a climax, but it builds slowly. So slowly in fact that the reader will be almost on the edge of his or her seat as they wait for the inevitable falling of the ax. When the final act does finally come, the reader will know the characters so well that they will almost be able to feel their agony. On the other hand, the reader will also see that the Count's victims would not have become victims but for their own greed and pride. The traps laid by the Count simply would not have worked had not his victims been ruled by same vices that led them to wrong Dantes in the first place. As with all great works of fiction, the moral lessons are there, but buried under the surface so that they don't interfere with a great story.  <br /> <br />This is indeed a great story.	2004-10-13
US	51167656	RLJUAY0E23M9Z	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Let Me Tell Y'all a Story 'bout a Man Named Bill.	Early on in this book President Clinton quotes some of his staff who had said that Clinton, \\"never met a meal he didn't like.\\" Apparently he is also very fond of words for this book is of almost Biblical proportions. There are times when one feels as if he is never going to finish and it is my understanding that the first draft was much longer. Still, as one reads along it is obvious that quite a bit has been left out and it is painfully clear that multiple volumes would have served this purpose much better. Former President Carter seems to have found the key to successful presidential autobiography by writing numerous short volumes, each detailing a different period or facet of his life. For example, Carter's book about his first real campaign for elective office is fascinating and I hope Mr. Clinton will think about doing something along those lines. I am sure that his first congressional race would easily provide enough material for a book.<br /><br />Clinton's writing style flows nicely although it is fairly obvious that he has gone to great pains to not write over anybody's head. There are a few choppy sentences and in one case a fairly long paragraph is entirely made up of one sentence but overall this is a very well written book. One of the most annoying aspects of this book is Clinton's apparent attempt to name everyone who was part of his team at least once. The names fly by so quickly at times that the reader will have no hope of retaining much about some of these people. On the other hand it is very commendable that President Clinton has attempted to mention as many of the people in his administration as he could. Very few big name politicians are that big hearted.<br /><br />Being an autobiography this book must of course be taken with a grain of salt. The beauty of all autobiographies is that they give the reader a real inside look at the subject and his life while the downside is that they are almost all self-serving to at least some extent. For example, his childhood commitment to civil rights smells just a little fishy for a rural boy in Arkansas, especially since Clinton seems to have been quite popular in school. Still, the stories like the one Clinton tells about the two guys who would support him if he took a big chew of Red Man tobacco make these books priceless. The reader doesn't have to believe everything the author says to know that stories like that just can't be made up.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very good book but it kind of reminds me of the text for a college survey class. A lot of ground has been covered but there has just been so much left out. Love him or loath him, Bill Clinton is a man who loves life and that clearly comes through in this book.  Even if the reader unwisely rejects over half the information in this book as self promotion, what is left is still a valuable tool for not only understanding Bill Clinton, but a whole generation of Americans.xample, his childhood commitment to civil rights smells just a little fishy for a rural boy in Arkansas, especially since Clinton seems to have been quite popular in school. Still, the stories like the one Clinton tells about the two guys who would support him if he took a big chew of Red Man tobacco make these books priceless. The reader doesn't have to believe everything the author says to know that stories like that just can't be made up. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a very good book but it kind of reminds me of the text for a college survey class. A lot of ground has been covered but there has just been so much left out. Love him or loath him, Bill Clinton is a man who loves life and that clearly comes through in this book.  Even if the reader unwisely rejects over half the information in this book as self promotion, what is left is still a valuable tool for not only understanding Bill Clinton, but a whole generation of Americans.	2004-09-17
US	51167656	R3PC4E9CSGGVV1	0385007515	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	92	100	N	N	Keep a Crucifix Handy!	Jerusalem's Lot is an unassuming small town in southern Maine. It is the kind of town where everybody knows everybody else and most of the residents have lived there all of their lives. In this atmosphere it was odd indeed when three strangers came to town at almost the same time. One of these strangers wasn't really a stranger at all. He had spent part of his childhood there and had returned in hopes of ridding himself of some old demons. The other two strangers also had an old connection with the town but it was a much darker and sinister connection.<br /><br />Stephen King starts his macabre tale with these facts and then begins to weave a fascinating tail. He introduces the reader to the town in such a way that it makes one feel as if he had actually been to this fictional place. The reader will get to know many of the residents, some all too well. Some are likable, some are loathsome, and some are described so well that the reader will actually mourn their passing. One can easily feel Ben Mears' pain when he finds out that someone that he is very close to is gone.<br /><br />As the dark cloud of vampirism spreads across the town there are a few residents who figure out what is going on. Some refuse to believe what logic and their senses tell them and they fall victim to the curse while others figure things out in time to flee. A few try to stop the spread of this evil and pay dearly. For those who have not seen one of the movies based on this book, this is all of the story that I am going to give away. For those who have seen the movies, neither movie follows the book too closely and the book is far superior to either film.<br /><br />King's flair for this type of story is well known and I can assure you that you will not be disappointed with this book. It will entertain you, it will scare you, and it will delight you.  While reading parts of this book I was able to feel the sense of dread that many people in the Lot were feeling. King is indeed a master when it comes to bringing gloom and doom off of his pages and into the hearts of his readers.<br /><br />There are a few places where it is a little hard to follow just who is saying what in some of the conversations but beyond that I could find few flaws.  I found it very interesting that the reader would not be able to figure out what was happening to the town until about the same time some of the characters do. Of course, that was when this book first came out. I dare say that few people who start this book now, nearly thirty years after it was written will be surprised by the basics of the story. The creepy factor must have been much greater before the plot was given away by the movies, but rest assured, there are still plenty of creeps between the covers of this book.t comes to bringing gloom and doom off of his pages and into the hearts of his readers.<br /><br />There are a few places where it is a little hard to follow just who is saying what in some of the conversations but beyond that I could find few flaws.  I found it very interesting that the reader would not be able to figure out what was happening to the town until about the same time some of the characters do. Of course, that was when this book first came out. I dare say that few people who start this book now, nearly thirty years after it was written will be surprised by the basics of the story. The creepy factor must have been much greater before the plot was given away by the movies, but rest assured, there are still plenty of creeps between the covers of this book.	2004-09-03
US	51167656	R2K51KYVGNQMWQ	189487711X	259895912	Ghost Stories of America	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Needs Work!	Dan Asfar and Edrick Thay have put together an interesting collection of ghost stories from all across America. I have read about many of these ghosts before and some are quite famous, like the Bell Witch and Resurrection Mary, while others are little known accounts from the far corners of each and every state. The authors have a pleasing writing style and the stories are interesting and flow nicely.<br /><br />Asfar and Thay have done a good bit of research in preparation for writing this book and they seem to know their facts. Unfortunately, all of their research seems to have been conducted be looking at secondary sources. Several books that have been written by some of America's finest writers of ghost books are mentioned in this text and that seems to be where the authors got their stories. Most if not all of the authors Asfar and Thay mention write stories only after they have visited the haunted site and most of the time they have conducted interviews with eyewitnesses. There is none of that in this book and eyewitness accounts are indispensable when it comes to writing a first rate ghost book.<br /><br />This would be a good book to have if one wanted to read some ghost stories to a bunch of kids while sitting around a campfire for there is little in the way of detail that would cause the story to bog down with the short attention span crowd. On the other hand, some of the stories contain more history than ghosts so even in this scenario one would have to pre-read and choose their stories carefully. If you really want ghost stories that have the feel of the real thing, spend you money on books by Nancy Roberts, Beth Scott, Michael Norman and the other authors mentioned in this book. This book is really more of a condensed version than the real thing.	2004-08-30
US	51167656	R4Z46HAQVH1CA	0142437174	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	137	149	N	N	Twain at his best!	Back during my school days this was still not a book that was considered to be politically incorrect and so I was supposed to read it. As was far too often the case, I got by on little more than watching the movie version and never bothered to read this masterpiece. A few months ago I picked up a copy to put in my library for my grandson to use when he got old enough to go to school. Unfortunately this has been classified as a children's book and so I had little intention of reading it when I bought it.<br /><br />After discussing a book about President Grant and Mark Twain with a friend I decided that I should read this book and I soon found out just how much of an adventure I had been missing. Twain's well deserved reputation as a storyteller is on clear display in this book from cover to cover. The reader is drawn into the lives of the characters to the point of being really disturbed when something bad happens to them. Sure, they steal and they lie but you will love them in spite of everything.<br /><br />The story basically follows the adventures of young Huckleberry Finn and a runaway slave named Jim. Finn is trying to escape has father and the efforts of the townspeople to civilize him while Jim is trying to escape slavery. More to the point, Jim is trying to escape being sold down the river, which was always a worry for slaves in the upper south.<br /><br />There is a strong moral point to this book as Huck slowly learns to love Jim as a friend and not think of his skin color. Early on Huck is worried about helping a runaway slave and isn't sure what to do. Having been raised in Missouri, Huck has been taught that helping a slave run away is one of the worst sins imaginable and that African-Americans are pretty much worthless except as slaves. It takes a while for the truth to come to Huck but he finds that he is determined to help his friend get his freedom, no matter what. Huck ends up risking his own life to do just that.<br /><br />This book is a pure joy to read and I suggest you read it without looking for a political agenda. Just let the story flow and enjoy each word. The dialects used may slow you down a bit at first but they add so much to the flow of the book that they are quite indispensable. This is a wonderful story, full of youthful innocence and backwoods charm. Just one little warning though, once you start reading you won't be able to put this book down.y to read and I suggest you read it without looking for a political agenda. Just let the story flow and enjoy each word. The dialects used may slow you down a bit at first but they add so much to the flow of the book that they are quite indispensable. This is a wonderful story, full of youthful innocence and backwoods charm. Just one little warning though, once you start reading you won't be able to put this book down.	2004-08-23
US	51167656	R25JQK6HDNCHQK	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	5	43	50	N	N	Democracy at a Crossroads.	Thirty years ago John W. Dean was at the heart of the Nixon White House during one of the worst presidential scandals in American history.  If anyone alive is familiar with the ins and outs of west wing shenanigans, it is John Dean.  In this book, Dean lays out a long litany of problems he has observed in the Bush White House and does so without pulling any punches at all.<br /><br />Dean apparently started this book as more of a memo to the White House and a friendly memo one assumes.  He had observed some things that reminded him of the old days under Nixon and he wanted to warn the current Administration to be careful. According to Dean however, as he watched things got worse and worse and were completely out of hand before he could catch his breath. He then decided that for the sake of democracy, he had to speak out before it was too late.<br /><br />Dean makes several charges against the Bush team in this book including, deliberate miss-statements made by both Bush and Cheney, misuse of executive privilege, complete disregard for the laws of the nation and an ends-justify-the-means mentality. He also draws a very chilling comparison between the leak concerning Valerie Walker and what appears to be a cover up, to the scandal he is most familiar with, Watergate. This is one of the areas that he draws his title from as he pointedly reminds the reader that an attempt at bugging Democratic Headquarters is not nearly as despicable as risking the lives of several loyal CIA agents for political revenge.<br /><br />Dean's most serious problem with the Bush White House is it's obsession with secrecy. He points out example after example of the public's right to know being chipped away at because sometimes the facts can be the enemy of a political agenda. Secrecy, Dean argues is at best a cover for incompetence and at worst a hiding place for outright criminal intent. Either way, Dean makes a very credible argument against all of this secrecy and while he does not mention the infamous plumbers, one is reminded of their mission.<br /><br />These are not the ravings of a political opponent of Mr. Bush but are well thought out insights into what just may be going on in our government. Dean has done an excellent job of backing up his claims by documenting every one of them. There are only 198 pages of text in this book, which are documented by two appendices, and 29 pages of notes, which are augmented by several footnotes. The also includes comments from several Republicans who have found serious problems with how this administration is doing things. This is a well-written, clear and concise indictment of the Bush Administration and is a book that every voter should read before they vote in November.t mention the infamous plumbers, one is reminded of their mission.  <br /> <br />These are not the ravings of a political opponent of Mr. Bush but are well thought out insights into what just may be going on in our government. Dean has done an excellent job of backing up his claims by documenting every one of them. There are only 198 pages of text in this book, which are documented by two appendices, and 29 pages of notes, which are augmented by several footnotes. The also includes comments from several Republicans who have found serious problems with how this administration is doing things. This is a well-written, clear and concise indictment of the Bush Administration and is a book that every voter should read before they vote in November.	2004-08-19
US	51167656	R3PGTE3Q9LB5HW	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Marvelous!	It is rare indeed to find an author with the talent that Erik Larson has shown in writing this book. In writing historical accounts, many authors do a fine job of research and tell their story in a very readable manner, but seldom does an author do as well in both areas as does Larson. In reading this account of the great hurricane that struck Galveston, Texas in September of 1900 I was often reminded of David McCullough's riveting account of the Johnstown flood that preceded this disaster by eleven years. An author can't keep much higher company than that.<br /><br />This is not only the story of a hurricane though, it is also the story of Isaac Cline and to some extent the story of Issac's employer the national weather bureau. As is often the case with men of science, Cline allowed himself to believe that science had an answer for everything and Mother Nature taught him a lesson in reality, the hard way. Larson explores Cline's mistakes and leaves the reader with no doubt that the head of the Galveston weather bureau bears some responsibility for the thousands of deaths caused by the hurricane. There is much more blame however to be shared by a group of smug bureaucrats that tried to discredit Cuban forecasters who had accurately predicted the hurricane's path. Cline accepted his responsibility while the others simply refused to admit error.<br /><br />Larson takes the reader through Cline's career as well as the events leading up to the storm. The tension builds as the reader, who knows what is coming is then introduced to several citizens of Galveston. The author then leads the reader through the storm in riveting accounts told by survivors, especially those to whom he has introduced the reader earlier. One can sense in Larson's words the joy of children playing in the rising water and the fascination of the adults as the waves destroy a series of bathhouses. Then the reader feels the emotions begin to change as fear starts to creep into people's minds. The terror that these people begin to feel is so well communicated that the reader is caught up in the storm with it's victims and I found myself unable to put the book down until I found out what happened to these people.<br /><br />After the storm passes, Larson works his literary magic yet again in describing the carnage and the sadness left behind. The reader will almost mourn with the survivors as they try to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives. Each and every story becomes a testimonial to the spirit of those who survived the storm and will inspire as well as sadden. I really regret that I waited so long to read this book for it is one of the best works I have read in a long time.terror that these people begin to feel is so well communicated that the reader is caught up in the storm with it's victims and I found myself unable to put the book down until I found out what happened to these people.  <br /> <br />After the storm passes, Larson works his literary magic yet again in describing the carnage and the sadness left behind. The reader will almost mourn with the survivors as they try to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives. Each and every story becomes a testimonial to the spirit of those who survived the storm and will inspire as well as sadden. I really regret that I waited so long to read this book for it is one of the best works I have read in a long time.	2004-08-17
US	51167656	R1UO6A3WWP2L02	0385501684	699519594	Hail, Holy Queen	Books	5	77	81	N	N	Hail Mary Full of Grace...	There is no issue that tends to divide Catholics and Protestants more than the veneration of Our Blessed Mother Mary. Protestants just can't understand this devotion to Mary, while Catholics can't understand it's absence. Scott Hahn, one of the leading defenders of the Catholic faith has taken on the subject in this book and has tried to explain in simple terms why Catholics venerate the Virgin Mary.<br /><br />Hahn comes at this subject in a different way than most Catholic authors because he is a former Presbyterian minister. As such, he is able to grasp Protestant objections to Marian devotions and is able to present his information in a way that counters all possible objections. Furthermore, even though Hahn is a seminary graduate, he presents his information in a manner that will allow anyone to grasp what he is saying.<br /><br />This book will be especially valuable to new Catholics, those thinking about conversion, or any non-Catholic who wants to know more about the Catholic Church. It will also be valuable however to the so-called cradle Catholics who will find much information about Mary that they may have never been exposed to and any Catholic will be moved toward a greater devotion to Mary after reading this book.<br /><br />Anyone who is not familiar with the dogma of the Catholic Church will find one problem however. Hahn defends the Assumption of Mary in a very understandable way but it is never explained. Those unfamiliar with the Faith will come away convinced that the Assumption happened but still will not know the story of this event. The author does suggest a book on the subject in sort of an afterthought, but the book he suggests is by his own admission, out of print.<br /><br />This oversight, while important, still does not detract from the overall effectiveness of this book. The evidence is presented in a clear and well-written manner and will not be over most people's head. It will however, be best understood if the reader keeps a Bible handy to further investigate the author's references. For Catholic readers, this book is imprinted with a Nihil Obstat and an Imprimatur and therefore does not express any opinion contrary to Church doctrine. This book, although short, is bursting at the seams with information and should be on the reading list of all Catholics, possible converts, and any serious student of theology.a Bible handy to further investigate the author's references. For Catholic readers, this book is imprinted with a Nihil Obstat and an Imprimatur and therefore does not express any opinion contrary to Church doctrine. This book, although short, is bursting at the seams with information and should be on the reading list of all Catholics, possible converts, and any serious student of theology.	2004-08-13
US	51167656	R1VABPY4ARHR38	1586635646	795415357	Real Hauntings: True American Ghost Stories	Books	3	7	7	N	N	If You Like Summer Reruns, You Will Love This Book.	I have been a Hans Holzer fan for many years and there is little doubt that he is the most widely read author of this type of book.  Almost of the hauntings he writes about are those he has investigated for himself and he seems to only investigate well-documented cases where there are several living witnesses that he can interview. There is never any danger of picking up one of Holzer's books and being bored to tears with a bunch of old unsubstantiated folk tales.<br /><br />\\"Real Hauntings\\" is a collection of some of Holzer's old investigations, mostly from the 1960s. He and his sidekick Sybil Leek, who is a medium, travel about the country investigating haunted houses and urging the ghosts to cross over to the other side. As usual, Holzer's writing style is superb. Even though he holds a Ph.D. he does not try to write in a pompous manner that is over most reader's head. The stories in this book are fun to read and I found it hard to put down. If you read this book at night while all alone you may have trouble sleeping for Holzer conveys the eerie nature of these haunts very clearly.<br /><br />There is one major problem with this book however, and it is a problem that crops up with Holzer again and again. He likes to recycle his stories and if you have read previous books by this author you may have a strong sense of having read these stories before.  I had this feeling and pulled out a couple of Holzer's other books that I have in my library. In checking just the first third of this book I found that five of the stories in this book were also in one of the author's books other two books I checked. Two more stories were in this book and also in both of the other two books. I don't know how many new stories were in this book, but I suspect there weren't many.<br /><br />Try Holzer out because he has a great talent for this type of book. If you have never read Holzer before this book would be a fine one to read. On the other hand, if you have read any of Holzer's other books avoid this one for it seems to be only a collection of previously published stories.zer's other books avoid this one for it seems to be only a collection of previously published stories.	2004-08-13
US	51167656	R1NQLA2F7DF43	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	4	30	35	N	N	Angel or Devil, Chernow Lets the Reader Decide.	In closing his description of Alexander Hamilton's funeral, author Ron Chernow writes, \\"Thus ended the most dramatic and improbable life among the founding fathers.\\" That one sentence comes close to summarizing this book. When Hamilton first arrived in Boston in either 1772 or 1773, no one could have guessed what awaited this young man of destiny.<br /><br />Had it not been for the kind patronage of some of his West Indian neighbors, Hamilton might never have reached what would become the United States. Born out of wedlock in the West Indies and basically orphaned at an early age, Hamilton had two strikes against him almost before he started. Only sheer ambition and genius propelled him so near the pinnacle of power in the American Government. That Hamilton was a genius, there is little doubt and Chernow doesn't have to work too hard to make that point. On the other hand, Hamilton had several character flaws, some of which would lead directly to his infamous duel with Aaron Burr.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very well written book and the research is exquisite and almost beyond reproach. At times however, the book does drag a bit and is even a bit tedious in places. Given that Mr. Chernow tends to write about financial matters, which have a tendency to get a little deep, I at first assumed that this was why I was having a problem. The occasionally dull area weren't limited to financial matters however so that wasn't the problem at all. I can't put my finger on it but for some reason, there are just places where the story drags a bit. Actually, Chernow does an excellent job of explaining economic matters so that almost anyone can grasp what he is saying. I really don't think anyone could have done a better job of handling these financial affairs than this author has done.  Even I understood what he was writing about and for Mr. Chernow that is quite a feat.<br /><br />One other problem is that the author tends to use too many quotes. These quotes are necessary in any historical work but I feel that Mr. Chernow occasionally takes it too far. Some of the quotes fit nicely, but others detract from the story and some of the quotes used are entirely too long. This may be part of the reason that the text drags in places.<br /><br />Despite it's flaws, this is an excellent biography. Chernow has taken a man that is somewhat lost in history and who is often completely misunderstood and brought him to life in a fascinating way. Some biographies do a little better job of portraying the subjects personal life, but Chernow was at a severe disadvantage in this area since little of Mrs. Hamilton's correspondence has survived. Considering what he had to work with, the author has done an amazing job in this area.<br /><br />Hamilton was vain, intemperate, and sometimes conniving, but he, more than anyone else is the father of our present form of government. His genius will seldom be matched nor will his occasional bad judgment. Chernow to his credit points out both the greatness of the man and his flaws. Alexander Hamilton deserves a much better historical reputation than he has tended to receive. Maybe this book will begin to change all of that.y in any historical work but I feel that Mr. Chernow occasionally takes it too far. Some of the quotes fit nicely, but others detract from the story and some of the quotes used are entirely too long. This may be part of the reason that the text drags in places. <br /> <br />Despite it's flaws, this is an excellent biography. Chernow has taken a man that is somewhat lost in history and who is often completely misunderstood and brought him to life in a fascinating way. Some biographies do a little better job of portraying the subjects personal life, but Chernow was at a severe disadvantage in this area since little of Mrs. Hamilton's correspondence has survived. Considering what he had to work with, the author has done an amazing job in this area. <br /> <br />Hamilton was vain, intemperate, and sometimes conniving, but he, more than anyone else is the father of our present form of government. His genius will seldom be matched nor will his occasional bad judgment. Chernow to his credit points out both the greatness of the man and his flaws. Alexander Hamilton deserves a much better historical reputation than he has tended to receive. Maybe this book will begin to change all of that.	2004-08-10
US	51167656	R1UP3E5WHHI7UP	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	5	104	112	N	N	An Absolutely Wonderful Book!	It is extremely hard to sit down and write a review for any piece of classic literature for there is very little a reviewer can say that is new. Of course, for a book to be considered a classic most of its reviewers have to have had a favorable opinion of the work and all a new reviewer can do is concur or disagree. In this case, I couldn't possibly agree more with previous reviewers who have written rave reviews of this book.<br /><br />This is not so much the story of Willie Stark, who was Willie Talos in the original manuscript, as it the story of Jack Burden, the man telling the story. It really seems to be the story of a young man and his road to maturity. That young man is Jack Burden and Stark seems to be just a convenient focal point around which Warren weaves his story. The plot is very well laid out and flows very well from beginning to end, which is quite an accomplishment when one considers all of the subplots to be found in this book. As Burden tells his story he often wanders down memory lane, recalling events which his story has recalled. Each subplot builds to it's own climax while also building toward the climax of the main story and the reader is swept along like a barrel on the Niagara River. Just as the reader feels as if he can put the book aside for a while, another subplot begins to ascend through the story and the reader is again swept along unable to pause. I got so caught up in one of the subplots that I was late for a very important appointment. I just couldn't stop until I found out what happened.<br /><br />Stark is obviously supposed to resemble Louisiana Governor Huey Long and he very much does so. If one also reads T. Harry Williams biography of Long they will see just how strong the resemblance is. There are several morals and messages to be drawn from this story including thoughts on good and evil and past and future. In addition to the messages though, one has to admire the incredible amount of research Warren had to have done to write this book. Warren of course was alive and well during Huey Long's reign and that had to help him but in all events described his historical accuracy is uncanny. For example, one of the subplots involves Jefferson Davis in a minor way and even in delving in things well beyond his own memories Warren laces the story with many accurate details. In one passage, Warren relates that Davis missed the steamboat that was to carry him on the first leg of his trip to Montgomery to assume the Presidency of the new Confederacy. Warren points out that the boat left Davis Landing and then was halted out in the river while a smaller boat brought the new President out to get on board. A historical fact that would not be common knowledge but that is entirely accurate.<br /><br />Many people avoid books that are considered to be top-flight works of literature. These people often assume that such books must be dull and so philosophical that they are beyond the average reader. In some instances this may be the case but not with this book. Warren has turned out a masterpiece that is not only fun to read but is so enjoyable that the reader will hate to come to the end.  There are messages to be found here, both obvious and subtle but do not worry about the messages. They will come through on their own as you sit back and enjoy the ride over the falls.to write this book. Warren of course was alive and well during Huey Long's reign and that had to help him but in all events described his historical accuracy is uncanny. For example, one of the subplots involves Jefferson Davis in a minor way and even in delving in things well beyond his own memories Warren laces the story with many accurate details. In one passage, Warren relates that Davis missed the steamboat that was to carry him on the first leg of his trip to Montgomery to assume the Presidency of the new Confederacy. Warren points out that the boat left Davis Landing and then was halted out in the river while a smaller boat brought the new President out to get on board. A historical fact that would not be common knowledge but that is entirely accurate.  <br /> <br />Many people avoid books that are considered to be top-flight works of literature. These people often assume that such books must be dull and so philosophical that they are beyond the average reader. In some instances this may be the case but not with this book. Warren has turned out a masterpiece that is not only fun to read but is so enjoyable that the reader will hate to come to the end.  There are messages to be found here, both obvious and subtle but do not worry about the messages. They will come through on their own as you sit back and enjoy the ride over the falls.	2004-07-20
US	51167656	R1QTX7UT5GTX3T	0879734159	712652175	The How-to Book of Catholic Devotions: Everything You Need to Know But No One Ever Taught You	Books	5	100	100	N	N	Catholic Devotions Made Easy!	Often times, the biggest problem faced by those new to the Catholic faith is that they are surrounded by lifetime Catholics. Not that there is anything wrong with lifetime Catholics for these people are the pillars of the faith but they have trouble grasping just how much the novice has to learn. Having lived all of their life with all of the tradition and ritual of the Church these lifetime Catholics can't know just how confused someone new to the Church can become. That is where books like this come in.<br />The authors seem to have aimed this book at Catholics who have never been at all active in the Church and have never been taught its ways but for the novice this book is a treasure. Many of the central beliefs of the Church are explained here and explained in a way that anyone can understand. For example, most Catholics wouldn't really consider Holy Water confusing. The new Catholic however only knows that Dracula doesn't like the stuff and has no idea of its real significance. This book explains just what it symbolizes and is used for.<br />Among the things explained in this book are the Sign of the Cross, the Angelus, pilgrimages, the Sacred Heart, and the significance of Fridays. All of it explained in an easy to grasp and fun to read manner. About mid-way through the book the reader will almost hear the sound as everything begins to click. Suddenly, many things that were kind of fuzzy become clear and understandable. Things learned in this book will bring the whole world of the Catholic Church into a much clearer focus.<br />Many people have great knowledge of the things they write about but only a few can communicate their knowledge as well as these two authors. For someone thinking of converting or just curious this book will be a great help and I highly recommend it to anyone going through the RCIA. Even if you are just studying the Catholic Church to better understand world history, this book is a must. An easy and quick read this book explains much of the knowledge of two thousand years. What more could one ask for?the knowledge of two thousand years. What more could one ask for?	2004-07-15
US	51167656	RRL6I5ZUVKFGB	1558539646	204552617	Gentleman and Soldier: A Biography of Wade Hampton III	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Hampton finally gets the respect he is due.	Edward G.  Longacre has written many books dealing with subjects relating to the Civil War and has added greatly to the accumulated knowledge of that era. In this biography of General Wade Hampton, the author has again contributed to general Civil War knowledge but he has also accomplished much more. With this, the first full biography of Hampton since 1949, Longacre has rescued the name of this great soldier from anonymity and introduced him to a new generation of Civil War readers.<br />Longacre points out, early and often that Hampton's reputation has suffered the fate of many other highly successful Confederate leaders who weren't from Virginia. This bias against non-Virginians has been a major topic in some of Longacre's other books and the author may well be on a crusade to rectify this situation. It is a crusade that is long overdue in both academic and popular history.<br />Most of this book is concerned with Hampton's war career so his antebellum and post-war life is kind of skimmed over. Still, the subject's forward looking and enlightened views regarding race are relatively well covered, as is his political career. Still, his war service is the center of the book and it is handled very well. The reader will follow Hampton as he rises in rank and proves himself to be one of the best fighters in the Confederate Army. Longacre describes the General's tactics and campaigns thoroughly but without resorting to the tedious details many other authors use. Also covered is the discrimination suffered by Hampton and his non-Virginia command at the hands of J.E.B. Stuart and Robert E. Lee. The author takes great pains to point out Hampton's disgust with this discrimination and his later reconciliation with Lee after the Confederate commander finally began to recognize Hampton's vast abilities.<br />One escapade of Hampton's that I found very interesting was his raid on General Grant's beef herd during the siege of Petersburg. Hampton's scouts alerted him to the presence of the lightly guarded herd and according to Longacre, Hampton couldn't resist the temptation to steal all of those steaks on the hoof for the hungry Rebel Army. This raid was made famous in an old William Holden movie, but until I read this account I never knew it really happened.  Anecdotes like this help Longacre bring his subject to life for the reader and as I read this story I could almost see the sly grin on Hampton's face.<br />Thanks to his excellent writing style and his in depth research, Longacre has turned out a fine book that deserves a place on every Civil War reading list. Readers from Virginia may be a little miffed at times but sometimes the truth hurts. Wade Hampton of South Carolina has long deserved a good biographical treatment and now, thanks to Edward Longacre, he has one.esence of the lightly guarded herd and according to Longacre, Hampton couldn't resist the temptation to steal all of those steaks on the hoof for the hungry Rebel Army. This raid was made famous in an old William Holden movie, but until I read this account I never knew it really happened.  Anecdotes like this help Longacre bring his subject to life for the reader and as I read this story I could almost see the sly grin on Hampton's face.<br />Thanks to his excellent writing style and his in depth research, Longacre has turned out a fine book that deserves a place on every Civil War reading list. Readers from Virginia may be a little miffed at times but sometimes the truth hurts. Wade Hampton of South Carolina has long deserved a good biographical treatment and now, thanks to Edward Longacre, he has one.	2004-07-11
US	51167656	R27BQLES5JK7ZL	044661145X	994741439	Ghostly Encounters: True Stories of America's Haunted Inns and Hotels	Books	4	10	15	N	N	A wonderful ghostly tour guide.	Over the past few years every book and TV show dealing with the subject of ghosts has told the story of The Myrtles Plantation. As someone who follows this subject I must admit that I was sick of The Myrtles and had even noticed that one of the major ghost hunter organizations had called the hauntings at the old Louisiana plantation into question. As I started to read this book I found out that the author was a former owner of The Myrtles and was immediately turned off and figured I would not like this book at all. Still, I figured that I had paid for the book so I had just as well read it. I am very glad I decided to give Ms. Kermeen a chance.<br />There are some historical errors in this book that I hope will be corrected if there are any further printings. The author has a real problem with dates, especially those pertaining to the Civil War and these errors are grievous enough to cost the book a star. Having visited these places she writes about, her facts should have been more accurate.<br />Beyond the errors though this is one of the best ghost books I have read in quite some time. Kermeen's writing style is very good, especially for what I assume is her first book. Her stories are not old legends but are current and ongoing haunts and she gets the stories from living eyewitnesses. Written as part travel guide and part ghost story book, each chapter ends with a description of the Inn along with the address, phone number, email, and if applicable the web site of the property. There is also a section that tells the reader which rooms to stay in to be most likely to have a ghostly experience. There is also a section called, &quot;Don't Miss&quot; which includes some highlights of the town and especially the ghost tours that may be offered. Thanks to this section I found an activity at The Grove Park Inn in Asheville, North Carolina that I will be checking into.<br />For anyone who likes ghost stories this will be a wonderful addition to your collection. If, like me, you like to visit haunted places, I can't recommend this book too highly.  This is a treasury of haunted sites that are open to the public and where the staff will freely discuss the subject. I have been so close to some of the places Kermeen writes about but had no idea they were there. I wish this book had come out years and years ago.me, you like to visit haunted places, I can't recommend this book too highly.  This is a treasury of haunted sites that are open to the public and where the staff will freely discuss the subject. I have been so close to some of the places Kermeen writes about but had no idea they were there. I wish this book had come out years and years ago.	2004-07-09
US	51167656	R2EMJ3DRMRQPDT	0131854704	896510818	Cousin Beedie and Cousin Hot: My life with the Carter family of Plains, Georgia	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Growing up with Cousin Hot.	Hugh Alton Carter was a first cousin to Jimmy Carter and was four years the President's senior. In a small town like Plains two first cousins that close to being the same age will almost always end up being the best of friends and this was the case with Hugh and Jimmy. Both Carters had nicknames, which explains the name of the book, Cousin Beedie is Hugh while Jimmy is cousin Hot. The close friendship that developed between these two Carters was still in evidence when this book was written and I would imagine it endured until Hugh's death in 1999. Of course, while reading this book one has to keep in mind that it was written in 1978 so it barely covers a full year of the Carter Presidency.<br />There was a co-author of this book but I'm not sure if she used Hugh's words verbatim or if she changed his words into a more literary style. If she was supposed to do the latter, she did a poor job. A few times, sentences in this book make no sense at all, no matter how many times you go back and re-read the sentence or whole paragraph. Worse than this are the numerous occasions when the subject changes so suddenly that you are left thinking there must have been a misprint. The author will be discussing a subject and will get the story to a point where the reader wants to know more and then poof, a new paragraph and subject. It makes one wonder if maybe the White House didn't do a little editing without taking the time to smooth out the edits.<br />Still, this is a book any fan or student of Jimmy Carter will want to read. It is a little hard to find but the stories to be found within its pages are well worth the effort. Many stories will be found that are also told by the former President in some of his books, but Hugh adds some things that Jimmy doesn't tell. For example, Jimmy often tells of the fight he and Rosalynn had when he decided to leave the navy and move back to Plains. Hugh gives us the reason for Rosalynn's reluctance to go back to Plains. She didn't want to have to put up with Jimmy's mother Lillian. Miss Lillian had said from the beginning that Rosalynn wasn't good enough for her son and the two most important women in Jimmy's life apparently never did get along. Apparently Lillian didn't get along with a lot of the locals including the author of this book.<br />Throughout this book the reader will pick up on stories like this and many others that will lend themselves to a fuller understanding of the Clan Carter. If you remember the Carter years and remember the famous split of the Plains Baptist Church you will find a full explanation of the split in this book. At least you will get the Carter side of the story for Hugh left Plains Baptist before Jimmy.<br />If you can overlook the writing errors, and there are many, this is a superb look at the Carter's of Plains, Georgia. Hugh spends a little too much time talking about himself but sometimes that is as interesting and informative as his Jimmy stories. This book could have been much better, but as it is, it is still a keeper.have to put up with Jimmy's mother Lillian. Miss Lillian had said from the beginning that Rosalynn wasn't good enough for her son and the two most important women in Jimmy's life apparently never did get along. Apparently Lillian didn't get along with a lot of the locals including the author of this book. <br />Throughout this book the reader will pick up on stories like this and many others that will lend themselves to a fuller understanding of the Clan Carter. If you remember the Carter years and remember the famous split of the Plains Baptist Church you will find a full explanation of the split in this book. At least you will get the Carter side of the story for Hugh left Plains Baptist before Jimmy. <br />If you can overlook the writing errors, and there are many, this is a superb look at the Carter's of Plains, Georgia. Hugh spends a little too much time talking about himself but sometimes that is as interesting and informative as his Jimmy stories. This book could have been much better, but as it is, it is still a keeper.	2004-07-04
US	51167656	R1A416PUCAWHTR	1888992328	3797733	Mass Appeal: The ABCs of Worship	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mass for the newcomer.	Anyone who has lived most of their life outside the Christian faith or has always been a Protestant will almost always find that their first experience with Mass is overwhelming. Mass stimulates all of the senses at one point or another and anyone from outside of the Catholic tradition will often quickly become confused and bewildered as they try to figure out all that is going on. Mr. Akin has done a wonderful job of explaining the Mass in a way that anyone can understand. This is not some massive tome that will take you days to read, but almost a pamphlet that is short and to the point. It won't take you long to read this little book and the time will be well invested for you will learn a lot.<br />Akin explains the parts of the Mass, which are the Introductory Mass, The Liturgy of the Word, The Liturgy of the Eucharist, and the Concluding Rites.  Within each section the author takes pains to explain in the simplest terms what is going on. He also covers what the non-Catholic will see in a Catholic Church that they might not be familiar with and also the different positions of people in the Church and what they will be doing during Mass. There is even a paragraph about the vestments worn by the priests and deacons.<br />After reading this anyone will have a basic understanding of the parts that make up the Mass and why each particular thing is done. If you plan on visiting a Catholic Church, are thinking of converting, or are just seeking more knowledge and understanding of the worlds largest Christian body, &quot;Mass Appeal&quot; would be a great place to start. If Amazon doesn't have it, check with your local Catholic Church as they may have some copies on hand.	2004-07-03
US	51167656	R1YXM9RXUC33DS	0914875027	242024882	Mountain Spirits: A Chronicle of Corn Whiskey from King James' Ulster Plantation to America's Appalachians and the Moonshine Life	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This book is a treasure!	The people of Scotland and Ireland have long been known for their whiskey (whisky if you are a Scot). Is it any wonder then that the southern Appalachians which are heavily populated by people of Scottish and Irish ancestry became America's &quot;likker&quot; capitol? Tracing the origin of moonshine from it's European roots and concluding with today's corporate like operations, Joseph Dabney has done a remarkable job of gathering the history of white lightning.<br />Dabney has conducted countless interviews with old time moonshiners and their arch nemesis the revenue agents. Both groups seem to have opened up to the author and the tales they tell are a historical treasure. Moonshiners tell of their recipes and secrets, almost to the point of making this a blueprint for an aspiring distiller. These men and women were proud of their product and despite the stereotypes, making whiskey is hard work. The retired agents also took great pride in their work and were proud of the friendly relations they had had with the still operators. Often, when these agents caught someone working at his still the agent just told them to go on home and be at the courthouse at a certain time. Only on rare occasions did the moonshine maker fail to show.<br />There is a lot of good humor to be found in this book also. One tripper, the person who hauled the product to town, which I have always called a runner, told how he avoided the gaze of any policeman. If he found a law officer looking at him, the runner would pick his nose. He figured nobody was going to watch a man pick his nose and it seemed to work. An agent told of a drunk staggering into town asking for him. The agent found the man and he told the agent he wanted to report a still. It took the agent a while to figure out the directions the drunk was giving him but he finally got it straight and the next morning he and some deputies raided the still. Guess who was running the still, it was the drunk who had reported it and he didn't even remember talking to the agent. It turned out that the drunk and his two partners in the moonshine business had had a falling out and this partner got drunk and went to town to report the still so his partners would get arrested. He forgot about doing it and his partners got wind of his actions. They stayed home and the drunk got arrested.<br />For me, many of these stories are as familiar and comfortable as an old recliner because I live in the heart of moonshine country. Still, I think even a born and bred New Yorker will find this book a delight. Well written and researched, it is a model of oral history gathering. Dabney is never preachy nor does he look down on the people he is writing about. He does however, decry the current sad state of the whiskey makers craft. The old craftsmen are gone and today moonshine is made mostly with sugar and with very little corn. It is also often made in rigs containing lead and has dangerous additives put in it. To quote one old timer that Dabney interviewed, &quot;It'd kill a dead snake.&quot;'t even remember talking to the agent. It turned out that the drunk and his two partners in the moonshine business had had a falling out and this partner got drunk and went to town to report the still so his partners would get arrested. He forgot about doing it and his partners got wind of his actions. They stayed home and the drunk got arrested. <br />For me, many of these stories are as familiar and comfortable as an old recliner because I live in the heart of moonshine country. Still, I think even a born and bred New Yorker will find this book a delight. Well written and researched, it is a model of oral history gathering. Dabney is never preachy nor does he look down on the people he is writing about. He does however, decry the current sad state of the whiskey makers craft. The old craftsmen are gone and today moonshine is made mostly with sugar and with very little corn. It is also often made in rigs containing lead and has dangerous additives put in it. To quote one old timer that Dabney interviewed, &quot;It'd kill a dead snake.&quot;	2004-06-28
US	51167656	R28UMOMX6EQV3W	0385129912	722345215	Night Shift	Books	5	18	22	N	N	What a ride!	Over the years I have watched several movies based on Stephen King stories. Some I have liked very much while there were some I didn't care for at all. I finally decided that I wanted to read one of his books and this was the one I picked because I figured it would be best to start with a collection of short stories rather than a novel. I am impressed! If this is a true taste of King's other books I think I may have become and avid fan.<br />As with any collection of short stories I found that I liked some more than others, but even the stories that did the least for me were quite good. King's style of writing draws the reader into the story and makes one really feel as if he were right there with the characters that make up the story. Needless to say, chills will run up and down the reader's spine on several occasions. I couldn't put this book down and devoured every page and I think most everyone who gives it a try will find the same to be true.<br />Several of the stories in this book have been made into films but as is usual, the written story is much better. Even though I liked &quot;The Mangler&quot; in it's film form I wasn't all that impressed by it but the story in this book is not bad at all. As for &quot;The Children of the Corn&quot;, I didn't like the movie at all but the story in this book is excellent. The reader will also find two stories of the place known as Jerusalem's (Salem's) Lot in this book. One is set before the time frame of the novel while the other comes in after the novel ends.<br />Some of the other stories that really drew me in were, &quot;Trucks&quot;, Sometimes They Come Back&quot;, and &quot;I Am the Doorway&quot;.  All of the stories were good but those caught my extra attention. I may never go to another truck stop in my life!<br />If you have never read any of Mr. King's works I suggest you give him a try, and I suggest you start with this book. I'm hooked and I think you will be also.	2004-06-24
US	51167656	R2CPJ5PZJUK5MF	0060167068	538965260	Jefferson Davis: The Man and His Hour	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Davis on Davis.	William Davis has written many has written many wonderful books about the Civil War and quite frankly he has come a long way as a writer since he wrote this book. In this book all too often his sentence structure is poor and I had to read some sentences two or three times to see what he meant. There are also a few typos in this edition but that is hardly Davis' fault. On the other hand there is a reference in the book about Bedford Forrest being from Alabama which is hard to explain.  Overall though this book is well written and will certainly hold the reader's attention.<br />All in all, this is an excellent biography of Jefferson Davis. I would suggest that anyone who reads this book also read William Cooper's biography of Davis because the two authors take different approaches to their subject and together they offer a great insight into the life of President Davis.<br />This biography tends to delve more into the personality quirks that made Davis who he was and is sometimes very critical of these quirks. In fact, this book is sometimes much more critical of Davis than is Cooper but on the other hand there is plenty of praise for the subject also. The author tends to focus on Davis as commander in chief and generally on his relationship with his generals, especially Joe Johnston, Beauregard and Bragg. These three relationships Davis argues were devastating to the Confederacy and were examples of Jefferson Davis at his worst. Full credit is given to Davis however for realizing what he had in Robert E. Lee and for doing all he could to support his best general through good times and bad.<br />After all is said and done the author reaches what seems like a sound conclusion. Jefferson Davis probably did as well or better than any of the other possible choices the South could have picked as their leader. He made mistakes but it was he who set up the structure that kept the armies in the field for four years. Davis was the one who persuaded Congress to pass the laws that sent the armies men and food, Davis chose Lee for command when &quot;Granny Lee&quot; was not at all popular, and Davis dealt with the obstinate Governors who tried to keep men and arms to themselves when they were desperately needed elsewhere. In short, Davis held the new nation together longer than most any other Southern leader could have.<br />Finally, the author deals quite well with the process that brought Davis to near sainthood in the South after the war. It was a process that started with his imprisonment in Fort Monroe and ended with one of the largest funerals in Southern history. Together, Cooper and Davis cover most every aspect of the life of Jefferson Davis and the two books compliment each other quite well. What Davis misses, Cooper takes care of and what Cooper only touches upon, Davis completes. These two books will serve as the most complete biographies of Jefferson Davis for years to come, and they may never be surpassed.hat sent the armies men and food, Davis chose Lee for command when &quot;Granny Lee&quot; was not at all popular, and Davis dealt with the obstinate Governors who tried to keep men and arms to themselves when they were desperately needed elsewhere. In short, Davis held the new nation together longer than most any other Southern leader could have.<br />Finally, the author deals quite well with the process that brought Davis to near sainthood in the South after the war. It was a process that started with his imprisonment in Fort Monroe and ended with one of the largest funerals in Southern history. Together, Cooper and Davis cover most every aspect of the life of Jefferson Davis and the two books compliment each other quite well. What Davis misses, Cooper takes care of and what Cooper only touches upon, Davis completes. These two books will serve as the most complete biographies of Jefferson Davis for years to come, and they may never be surpassed.	2004-06-22
US	51167656	RX9DHK9HDJI9J	0451208048	506898227	The Haunting of the Presidents: A Paranormal History of the U.S. Presidency	Books	2	4	6	N	N	If Abe Lincoln hasn't haunted these guys, he should!	If there were psychiatrists who treated books then this book would provide a valuable case study for some practitioner. This book has more personalities than the White House has ghosts. Overall the writing is fairly good which is a plus. On the negative side however, there are numerous historical errors that tend to make the reader leery of the book as a whole.<br />The first quarter of this book is made up of stories that include premonitions in dreams, curses, prophecies and a UFO or two. There is hardly a ghost to be found and after about fifty pages I almost gave up and put the book down. If you are looking for the ghosts that are hinted at in the title you could just skip the first ninety-seven pages.<br />Then, after trudging through the first unimpressive part of the book, the reader will come to the best part. The second quarter of the book finally deals with ghosts in the White House as well as the ghosts of former Presidents and First Ladies who reside elsewhere. The documentation is a little lacking but there are a few eyewitness accounts and these stories are at the very least interesting. I particularly liked the story of the former Garfield home in Hiram, Ohio as well as the story of Teddy Roosevelt caught on video by tourists at Sagamore Hill.<br />The next section deals with the spiritual beliefs of the Presidents and details various s&eacute;ances held at the White House. This section of course includes the Lincoln White House, and Lincoln becomes the focus for the next quarter of the book. This is an interesting section but is again not very well documented.<br />The final quarter of the book leaps off into silliness. It is almost entirely taken up by Nancy Reagan and her psychic and Hillary Clinton's supposed chats with Eleanor Roosevelt. There is one nice little section near the end of the book that deals with hauntings in the DC area but the stories are brief and again lack any documentation. Finally, in an apparent attempt to kill what little credibility this book has, the authors bring in mediums and converse with the dead Presidents. They even manage to ask JFK about Marilyn Monroe's suicide, which fits in perfectly because these authors buy into every conspiracy theory ever conceived.<br />Basically, I was disappointed with this book. It is a fun read at times but most of the time it is just off the wall and silly. There simply has to be a better book on this subject out there somewhere and I would like to find it. Maybe I should find a medium and ask JFK what he thinks.bility this book has, the authors bring in mediums and converse with the dead Presidents. They even manage to ask JFK about Marilyn Monroe's suicide, which fits in perfectly because these authors buy into every conspiracy theory ever conceived.<br />Basically, I was disappointed with this book. It is a fun read at times but most of the time it is just off the wall and silly. There simply has to be a better book on this subject out there somewhere and I would like to find it. Maybe I should find a medium and ask JFK what he thinks.	2004-06-05
US	51167656	R1XUO8VCC3L91T	0618254110	743997924	Queen of Scots: The True Life of Mary Stuart	Books	5	89	93	N	N	The real Mary!	Mary Stuart was to the manor born, if indeed anyone ever was. She was the daughter of James V of Scotland and the great-granddaughter of Henry VII of England. She was raised in the Royal Court of France and was married at sixteen to the heir to the French Throne. Mary's father had died a few days after her birth and she had actually been Queen of Scotland since that time. Her realm was governed however by a regent who was for most of that time Mary's mother, Mary of Guise. The Guise family was a rich and powerful French family and they used young Mary to their advantage whenever they could. This misuse by her mother's family was just to be the beginning of a long series of betrayals that would finally end in Mary's execution.<br />John Guy has undertaken a huge task with this biography. The well-ingrained image of Mary Queen of Scots is one of a manipulative siren or of a Queen who was well out of her depth or both. Guy has examined many documents that have never been considered before and has reached an entirely different conclusion. In every way she was the equal of her cousin Elizabeth I, and in many ways her better. Mary's problem was that her Kingdom had been divided up by clan loyalties for years and the squabbles among the nobles made for an unruly Kingdom. Add to this the recent arrival of the Reformation in Scotland, and the further division it caused and the situation Mary faced on her return to Scotland was an almost hopeless one. Not phased in the least, Mary jumped right in and even her detractors had to admit that she was doing well. Even the rather unpleasant John Knox had to admit that the Catholic Queen did not lack courage.<br />Mary's also faced the problem that Scotland was so small and weak. That fact gave her very little leverage when bargaining abroad or with her cousin to the south. Then of course there was William Cecil, Elizabeth's Secretary of State, who hated Mary with a blind passion. Many Catholics in Europe, including many in England didn't recognize Elizabeth as the legitimate Queen of England, but instead looked to her cousin, the Queen of Scots. For that reason and his raging Protestantism Cecil decided that Mary had to go. And he went to extraordinary lengths to see that she did go.<br />Guy argues quite clearly that most of the charges that were leveled at Mary by rebel lords of Scotland were trumped up. Supported only by forged and doctored documents.  The author is very convincing in his argument that Mary had nothing to do with the death of her second husband Lord Darnley and that in fact her accusers were the guilty parties. In all, Mary seems to have been caught up in events that simply were too much for anyone to handle. She seems to have made the right decision most of the time but with her own lords out to steal her throne and with William Cecil at work in London she simply had no chance.<br />Her only real guilt came near the end of her life when she did indeed conspire to remove Elizabeth from the English Throne. This conspiracy was more of an act of desperation than anything else, for she had languished in English custody for years. Day catches the sense of desperation Mary must have felt and the reader will understand why she acted thus. Day in fact does an excellent job of catching the spirit of the times as well as the spirit of Mary.  Reading this book, one will see how often Mary was wronged while she was trying desperately to do the right thing. The author's thesis is that Mary was not only wronged in her own time, but has been badly wronged by history. In my opinion, he makes his point and it is well taken. After reading this wonderfully well-written book I don't think I will ever think of Mary Queen of Scots in the same way. She had her flaws, but she was indeed an impressive woman.didn't recognize Elizabeth as the legitimate Queen of England, but instead looked to her cousin, the Queen of Scots. For that reason and his raging Protestantism Cecil decided that Mary had to go. And he went to extraordinary lengths to see that she did go. <br />Guy argues quite clearly that most of the charges that were leveled at Mary by rebel lords of Scotland were trumped up. Supported only by forged and doctored documents.  The author is very convincing in his argument that Mary had nothing to do with the death of her second husband Lord Darnley and that in fact her accusers were the guilty parties. In all, Mary seems to have been caught up in events that simply were too much for anyone to handle. She seems to have made the right decision most of the time but with her own lords out to steal her throne and with William Cecil at work in London she simply had no chance. <br />Her only real guilt came near the end of her life when she did indeed conspire to remove Elizabeth from the English Throne. This conspiracy was more of an act of desperation than anything else, for she had languished in English custody for years. Day catches the sense of desperation Mary must have felt and the reader will understand why she acted thus. Day in fact does an excellent job of catching the spirit of the times as well as the spirit of Mary.  Reading this book, one will see how often Mary was wronged while she was trying desperately to do the right thing. The author's thesis is that Mary was not only wronged in her own time, but has been badly wronged by history. In my opinion, he makes his point and it is well taken. After reading this wonderfully well-written book I don't think I will ever think of Mary Queen of Scots in the same way. She had her flaws, but she was indeed an impressive woman.	2004-05-30
US	51167656	RIDGNA58O0SV4	0060566671	281861662	Talking to the Dead: Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism	Books	3	18	25	N	N	O.K., but nothing special.	Man is apparently the only creature that realizes he will some day die and we have pondered since time immemorial the question of what happens after death.  Many contend that nothing happens and we simply cease to exist but most people believe in some kind of life after death. This curiosity and yearning for knowledge is what made modern Spiritualism possible and Kate and Maggie Fox were its most successful early proponents. Barbara Weisberg has taken on the task of trying to make sense of this often-disorganized movement and has written an interesting but somewhat flat biography of these enigmatic sisters.<br />The whole story started in Hydesville, New York in 1848 when the Fox's neighbors became aware of the \\"spirit\\" rapping occurring in the Fox home. By various means, word of this phenomena spread across New York and soon the rest of the country. The Fox sisters, guided by their older sister Leah, soon became famous and were in great demand. Attempt after attempt was made to catch the girls in some fraud but they were never proven to be fakes. Over the years they held seances with the Russian Royal Family, James Fenimore Cooper, George Ripley, William Cullen Bryant, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Horace Greeley. One will note the presence of several abolitionist leaders in this group and the reform movements of the 1850s became closely associated with Spiritualism. Of course the civil war was a great boon for the movement as hundreds of thousands of untimely deaths led to like numbers of grieving families. One of the shortcomings of this book is that the effect of the war on Spiritualism is dealt with in such a backhanded manner that one hardly notices it.<br />As time went on, the Fox sisters went through some extraordinarily hard times and the author deals with this in great detail. Finally Maggie, with Kate's support renounces the spirits and claims it was all a fraud. Weisberg deals with this subject by giving it very little attention and then giving less attention to Maggie's later change of heart. She in fact spends far more time dealing with Maggie's great love than her renunciation of Spiritualism.<br />Weisberg has completed a great deal of research for this book and has certainly added to the study of this movement. She never captures the souls of her subjects however and the book seems to drag in several places. Being very interested in the subject and in ghostly phenomena in general I did enjoy this book but I was never completely absorbed by it. I don't know if it was the writing style or what I perceived as a lack of depth but I really feel that this book could have been much better. In short, if this subject fascinates you then you will enjoy this book and will learn from it. If, on the other hand, this subject is just of passing interest you may want to look elsewhere.ion to Maggie's later change of heart. She in fact spends far more time dealing with Maggie's great love than her renunciation of Spiritualism. <br />Weisberg has completed a great deal of research for this book and has certainly added to the study of this movement. She never captures the souls of her subjects however and the book seems to drag in several places. Being very interested in the subject and in ghostly phenomena in general I did enjoy this book but I was never completely absorbed by it. I don't know if it was the writing style or what I perceived as a lack of depth but I really feel that this book could have been much better. In short, if this subject fascinates you then you will enjoy this book and will learn from it. If, on the other hand, this subject is just of passing interest you may want to look elsewhere.	2004-05-20
US	51167656	R7RL0JJ20FYKC	0895870649	182868293	Mountain Ghost Stories and Curious Tales of Western North Carolina	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Barely a ghost to be found.	There are many titles that would have been appropriate for this book but the one chosen by the authors is not one of them.  Picking up this book one expects to find an abundance of ghost stories within it's pages but if that is your expectation, you will be disappointed. There are only two stories in this book that deal in any way with ghosts and one of those is the Brown Mountain lights which show up in almost any ghost book dealing at all with Western North Carolina. The rest of the book is just one old legend after another.<br />Don't get me wrong, some of these legends are intriguing and enjoyable. I especially enjoyed the story of Spearfinger. The writing is good and flows nicely and I ran into no editing problems. Still, this book purports to be a book of ghost stories and that is what I bought it for. A much more appropriate title would have been &quot;Cherokee Legends of Western North Carolina&quot; or something like that. One story doesn't even bother to deal with a legend. It is just the story of a scalawag bushwhacker that people still remember and detest.<br />Those who like to read about the legends and gods of the Cherokee Nation will generally enjoy this book. Do not bother with it however if you are looking for haunts and spooks for there are none to be found here. If I were a lawyer with too much time on my hands I might file a false advertising suit on this one.	2004-05-12
US	51167656	R3IREH25MQB7WE	1586481878	70481652	One-Car Caravan: On the Road with the 2004 Democrats Before America Tunes In	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The possible making of a president 2004.	Average voters never get to see the personal side of presidential candidates. All we see is the polished public image crafted by their handlers and the short sound-bites on the evening news. If any of us are really lucky we might actually hear a candidate speak in person, but even that is a canned speech that has been recited by the candidate over and over. Sometimes a campaign insider or political reporter will offer us a look at the real person blemishes and all, but it is usually in a book published after the election.<br />Walter Shapiro has turned the tables a bit and given us a look behind the mask before the election. Shapiro is a long time political reporter and is currently with USA Today. His knowledge of the subject comes through in every page of this book as he introduces the reader to the major contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004. Most political junkies don't even begin to focus on the race at its beginnings, but Shapiro made it a point to get to know the candidates while they were still formulating their campaigns. He traveled with Howard Dean when there were no other reporters around and in fact was with Dean on at least on trip to New Hampshire in a car with only two other people. One of which was the Vermont State Trooper assigned to drive then Governor Dean around.<br />Shapiro spent a lot of time like this with all of the major candidates and got to see a side of them that is seldom seen. Normally only the candidate's closest advisors and family get to see this side of the candidates. In this book we see Joe Lieberman's reaction to Al Gore's decision not to run and Howard Dean the penny pincher. We see John Edwards agonizing over his decision to run and Bob Graham with his odd habit of writing everything he does down in a little notebook. We also get a look at the emotional trauma faced by both John Kerry and Richard Gephardt as they deal not only with the stress of the campaign but also with the illness and ultimate death of their respective mothers.<br />Yes, these men are real people just like the rest of us and while running for President of the United States they have to deal with some of the same problems we all deal with. Shapiro gives us a chance to see how they handle these dual roles. This is a tough life these men have chosen and this book gives the reader some insight into why they decided to take on this challenge. Toward the end Shapiro includes a hilarious little section about what might be going on in early 2005. He includes things like President Edwards press secretary getting runs in her pantyhose caused by stray Legos and President Kerry being upset because he can't ride his Harley anywhere but Camp David.<br />This book is well written and interesting along with informative. I wish I had known about this book before the primary season although I doubt that it would have altered my choice. The candidates are not torn to pieces but are dealt with sympathetically. That is not to say however that their faults don't come through as do the faults of the system we use to select our leader. This is a very good book and since it contains a good deal of information about John Kerry it won't be out of date until November, and maybe eight years beyond that.th of their respective mothers. <br />Yes, these men are real people just like the rest of us and while running for President of the United States they have to deal with some of the same problems we all deal with. Shapiro gives us a chance to see how they handle these dual roles. This is a tough life these men have chosen and this book gives the reader some insight into why they decided to take on this challenge. Toward the end Shapiro includes a hilarious little section about what might be going on in early 2005. He includes things like President Edwards press secretary getting runs in her pantyhose caused by stray Legos and President Kerry being upset because he can't ride his Harley anywhere but Camp David.<br />This book is well written and interesting along with informative. I wish I had known about this book before the primary season although I doubt that it would have altered my choice. The candidates are not torn to pieces but are dealt with sympathetically. That is not to say however that their faults don't come through as do the faults of the system we use to select our leader. This is a very good book and since it contains a good deal of information about John Kerry it won't be out of date until November, and maybe eight years beyond that.	2004-05-11
US	51167656	R2P9RR0Z1DS7OI	0394747909	190968724	Huey Long	Books	5	125	130	N	N	Politics 101	Academic historians spend a lot of time complaining about the merits of so called popular history. This is of course mostly due to the fact that popular histories outsell what the academics turn out causing the academics to cry foul. I have read a fair amount of both types of history and have always felt that if the academics would turn out books that weren't so dull they could attract readers also. In his biography of Huey Long, T. Harry Williams delivers absolute proof that academics can turn out extremely interesting books. This book is fascinating from cover to cover and anyone who is considering a career in government should read this biography of one of the cleverest politicians of all time.<br />Historians often crucify the Kingfish but Williams doesn't follow that course. He simply presents the story and lets the reader decide whether Long was a hero or a villain. Huey's tactics were ruthless there is no doubt but in order to break the power of the Bourbon ruling class of Louisiana there was little alternative. This elite ruling class was thoroughly entrenched and had been grinding the people of Louisiana under their feet for years. Long may have indeed become a dictator but he broke the power of the Bourbons and brought Louisiana out of the 18th century. Huey's list of accomplishments is far too long for a review of this type but there is one area that must be mentioned. Huey gave to the people of Louisiana the key that would open the door to a brighter future by finally giving people a chance to get an education. For the first time children in Louisiana received free textbooks and LSU was built into a major institution of higher learning. He also created a medical school at LSU so those qualified citizens of the State that couldn't pay the high tuition at Tulane could still become doctors. Not only did this let the children of the middle class attend medical school, but also it also greatly improved the access of the people to medical care.<br />There is of course no doubt that Long had his bad side also and Williams doesn't cover it up. This is a very fair and balanced biography and the author's writing style is marvelous. Do not let the size of this work intimidate you, there are no tedious sections and chapters that will make your eyelids heavy. Williams relies heavily on oral history in this book. He has done dozens if not hundreds of interviews with Long's family, his associates, his supporters, and his enemies. Most of Long's communications were face to face or over the phone so this method was critical to the success of this work, and a success it is.<br />Many biographies are credited with being the definitive work on the subject's life. Sometimes with justification, sometimes without. In this case there is great justification for the definitive label. Nothing before or since has come close to Williams' work. If you want to understand the Kingfish, Louisiana politics, or just study a political genus at work, this is the book to read hands down.of course no doubt that Long had his bad side also and Williams doesn't cover it up. This is a very fair and balanced biography and the author's writing style is marvelous. Do not let the size of this work intimidate you, there are no tedious sections and chapters that will make your eyelids heavy. Williams relies heavily on oral history in this book. He has done dozens if not hundreds of interviews with Long's family, his associates, his supporters, and his enemies. Most of Long's communications were face to face or over the phone so this method was critical to the success of this work, and a success it is.<br />Many biographies are credited with being the definitive work on the subject's life. Sometimes with justification, sometimes without. In this case there is great justification for the definitive label. Nothing before or since has come close to Williams' work. If you want to understand the Kingfish, Louisiana politics, or just study a political genus at work, this is the book to read hands down.	2004-05-10
US	51167656	R285T3UQ0LEZI4	0310200121	350762845	The Carpenter's Apprentice: The Spiritual Biography of Jimmy Carter	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Preacher and the Democrat.	Dan Ariail is the pastor of Maranatha Baptist Church in Plains, Georgia and Maranatha is the home Church of Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter where they are active members. Rev. Ariail with the assistance of Cheryl Heckler-Feltz has attempted to put together a book that sheds some light on the Carter's spiritual life. It is indeed hard to understand the Presidency and post-Presidency of James Earl Carter without coming to grips with his basic religious beliefs. After all, while most former Presidents of both parties spend most of their time making huge sums of money or just relaxing, Jimmy Carter has done more to help more people than almost any man alive has. What is it that drives this wonderful man as he seeks to do good day after day? According to this book and several by Carter himself it is the former President's faith in God and his relationship with Christ.<br />Unfortunately, this book is mostly made up of accounts that have already been written about by Carter in his own books. In fact, if one were to combine several of Carter's books, this could be the condensed version. There are also too many long quotes from Carter's speeches and Sunday school lessons included in the text. With the book being as short as it is I felt the space could have been better used. Especially if it had been used to gain some extra insight from a man who knows Mr. &amp; Mrs. Carter so well. I finished this book thinking a great opportunity had been missed.<br />There are however several wonderful insights to be found in this book. For example there are stories of Jimmy Carter going out with his Pastor to visit new families in the community which is just as much a part of his Christian outreach as are his diplomatic efforts. The last section of the book is basically a tourist information chapter for those planning a trip to Plains. Just last year my wife and I went to Plains and this chapter would have been a great help. Especially the section about visiting Maranatha Church. We managed to make the Church visit and were in the President's Sunday school class. After the service we were able to have our picture made with the former First Family and found that they are gracious and lovely people. If nothing else, this book will help you plan for such a trip so you can share with my wife and I in this once in a lifetime experience. We would have had a much easier time if I had had this book back then.<br />If you are a Carter fan you will probably already be familiar with most of the material in this book but you will probably enjoy it anyway. If nothing else you will get a little insight into the personality of Billy Carter from someone outside the family. Billy was also a member of Maranatha and the Sunday we were there his widow was singing in the choir. On the other hand, if you don't really know much about the family Carter this book would be a great learning experience.  For those who have already read Jimmy Carter's books this would be a two star selection while for those new to the Carter story it would be worth four stars. I guess I'll have to average it out at three.to make the Church visit and were in the President's Sunday school class. After the service we were able to have our picture made with the former First Family and found that they are gracious and lovely people. If nothing else, this book will help you plan for such a trip so you can share with my wife and I in this once in a lifetime experience. We would have had a much easier time if I had had this book back then.<br />If you are a Carter fan you will probably already be familiar with most of the material in this book but you will probably enjoy it anyway. If nothing else you will get a little insight into the personality of Billy Carter from someone outside the family. Billy was also a member of Maranatha and the Sunday we were there his widow was singing in the choir. On the other hand, if you don't really know much about the family Carter this book would be a great learning experience.  For those who have already read Jimmy Carter's books this would be a two star selection while for those new to the Carter story it would be worth four stars. I guess I'll have to average it out at three.	2004-04-17
US	51167656	RB5ZFFDJ2DJ8L	1592130275	21790035	Out Of The Jungle: Jimmy Hoffa And The Remaking Of (Labor In Crisis)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Hoffa's Proletariat	Walk up to a group of twenty-five Americans on any street corner and throw out some names. Try Al Gore, Dick Cheney, Bill Frist, or the Governor of the state you happen to be in and see how many in the group recognize the name. Then try the name Jimmy Hoffa. Most of the group may not really know who Hoffa was but they will be familiar with the name. For better or worse, just like Elvis, Jimmy Hoffa has become an American icon.  Just before he began his term in prison, Hoffa was even compared to Christ by a local leader of the NAACP.<br />Thaddeus Russell has taken on the task of telling the story of Hoffa the Teamster. This is not really a biography of Hoffa the man for his family is barely mentioned nor is his daily life dealt with. This is the story of Hoffa and his Union and the history of the man and the organization are so deeply intertwined that this almost becomes a biography of the IBT. Russell really begins his story with Hoffa's early employment and his entry into the Union. From that point the author takes the reader along for the ride as the unknown Hoffa and his tiny Detroit local move into the big time. It is a fascinating story.<br />As the reader travels this sometimes-bumpy road he or she will gain several insights into the current state of American Labor. Hoffa gained the unswerving loyalty of his members by providing them with what they cared about. They wanted higher wages, shorter hours, and better benefits and Hoffa delivered. In contrast to Hoffa, after WWII many Union leaders adopted a corporatist outlook. Many Labor leaders had held this view before the war but it became dominant during the conflict. Their view was that Labor should give up many of it's best tools in order to become an equal partner in the decision making process of government. Russell never uses the term but their views were basically fascist in nature. Not Hitler's version, but true fascism which has never been practiced anywhere but went through a time of great popularity among intellectuals. The power given up by these corporatists still handicaps Labor to this day. Hoffa refused to surrender any tool he had at his disposal and fell out of favor with the rest of Labor.<br />Russell also covers Hoffa's relationship with the crime world. It appears that while Hoffa did indeed profit by some of his connections, his main reason for reaching out to the Mob in the first place was to gain needed muscle. Had that muscle been used exclusively against goons hired by management it would have been somewhat excusable. Many times however, that brute force was used against other unions. The odd thing is that after his release from prison Hoffa was seen by these underworld figures as a threat to their position in the IBT and that seems to have caused his disappearance. One wonders what would have happened if Hoffa had regained control of the Teamsters.<br />For someone who has studied the labor movement or a novice in this subject matter, this is a very good book. It is very well written and informative. Russell sheds new light on Hoffa and the IBT and does so in a very clear and easy to read manner. This story is sometimes very complicated but the author has done a remarkable job of explaining the whole story. This book is a welcome addition to the study of American Labor.ty among intellectuals. The power given up by these corporatists still handicaps Labor to this day. Hoffa refused to surrender any tool he had at his disposal and fell out of favor with the rest of Labor.<br />Russell also covers Hoffa's relationship with the crime world. It appears that while Hoffa did indeed profit by some of his connections, his main reason for reaching out to the Mob in the first place was to gain needed muscle. Had that muscle been used exclusively against goons hired by management it would have been somewhat excusable. Many times however, that brute force was used against other unions. The odd thing is that after his release from prison Hoffa was seen by these underworld figures as a threat to their position in the IBT and that seems to have caused his disappearance. One wonders what would have happened if Hoffa had regained control of the Teamsters. <br />For someone who has studied the labor movement or a novice in this subject matter, this is a very good book. It is very well written and informative. Russell sheds new light on Hoffa and the IBT and does so in a very clear and easy to read manner. This story is sometimes very complicated but the author has done a remarkable job of explaining the whole story. This book is a welcome addition to the study of American Labor.	2004-04-14
US	51167656	R17APRAHP8OGD	0812564367	179671251	Historic Haunted America	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Find a ghosts near you.	Michael Norman and Beth Scott have written several books about ghosts and they are all well written and fun to read.  Sadly, Beth Scott has passed away and their collaboration has thus ended, but it was good while it lasted.<br />This book is very well researched and convincing. There is even a bibliography, which is unusual for this type of book. There are not however a lot of bone chilling, now I can't sleep type of stories in this book. That is because this is a book of historic hauntings. Some are still current and ongoing but many of the spooks found within these pages have long since vanished as have many of their haunts. Still, wherever eyewitnesses could be quoted, they were. That always adds to the validity of a ghost sighting.<br />There are stories to be found here from every state of the Union and every province of Canada, so chances are one of the locations  mentioned will be near you. Most interestingly, some of the old stories are updated with new information. For example, most everyone has heard of the Bell Witch but assume it is gone. Norman and Scott have not only examined strange occurrences that are still happening in the Bell Witch Cave but also have talked  to some descendants of John Bell. I knew of the happenings in the Cave but was not aware that some in the Bell family believe the Witch is still involved with their clan. Could the Bell family still be haunted? According to this book they just may be.<br />Unfortunately the authors can't resist putting a few old Indian legends in the book. Some phenomena like the humming river are still active and the legends are an interesting explanation of the cause. Still, many of the old Indian legends were never ghost tails to begin with and just do not belong in this type of book. I may harp on this topic a little too much but it is one of my pet peeves.<br />This is not the best of this duo's books but it is still well worth a read. This pair views their topic with a bit of skepticism, which if not overdone is a good thing. Their writing is clear and they don't ramble on with useless information just to fill up space. We owe quite a debt to Norman and Scott for all their work collecting ghost stories over the years and their books deserve to be on any ghost aficionado's bookshelf.verdone is a good thing. Their writing is clear and they don't ramble on with useless information just to fill up space. We owe quite a debt to Norman and Scott for all their work collecting ghost stories over the years and their books deserve to be on any ghost aficionado's bookshelf.	2004-04-09
US	51167656	R2UDGGJE9LUSUN	0743254686	98660942	We Are Lincoln Men: Abraham Lincoln and His Friends	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Lincoln the Lonely.	David Herbert Donald is considered by most to be one of, if not the premier Lincoln historian in the Country. This book fits another piece of the puzzle together. Lincoln's friends are the subjects of this book, and of close friends, Lincoln had only a few. Donald has picked the six men with whom Lincoln seemed to have the closest relationship at one time or another and has examined how each friendship began, it's life, and if it ended before Lincoln's death, it's end. None really ended, but some did seem to dissipate.<br />Donald, like most writers who complete a large biography of an individual has become somewhat enamored by his subject and takes pains in this work to defend Lincoln from some rather silly but sensational charges. Sometimes though, Donald gets a little carried away with his obvious admiration for his subject. For example, he often discredits statements attributed to Lincoln saying that in phrase and in wording it does not sound like Lincoln. Unfortunately however, Donald then argues that Lincoln probably wrote a famous and well-received letter that John Hay later claimed to have written. Donald admits the letter doesn't sound like Lincoln and does sound like Hay's work but continues to attribute it to Lincoln. It sounds a little like the old saying about having your cake and eating it too.<br />On the other hand, whether Donald intended it to happen or not, a fairly unattractive vision of Lincoln shows through on occasion. Quite frankly, Lincoln comes across as what I have always called a user. Someone who uses people to get what they want and then casts them aside. Lincoln was not like this with all of his friends but he seems to have been guilty fairly often.  Maybe that explains why he was so afraid to share his intimate feelings and hopes.<br />Donald has a great flair for writing and this is a very easy to read and highly interesting book. Where he has had to deal in psychology, Donald has wisely consulted experts and his conclusions seem well thought out and are very well presented. It is clear that Mr. Lincoln led a very lonely life. What is not at all clear is whether he did not choose that life for himself. David Donald has reached his conclusions and I have reached mine. Take the time to read the evidence presented here and reach you own conclusion. It will be well worth your time and effort.well thought out and are very well presented. It is clear that Mr. Lincoln led a very lonely life. What is not at all clear is whether he did not choose that life for himself. David Donald has reached his conclusions and I have reached mine. Take the time to read the evidence presented here and reach you own conclusion. It will be well worth your time and effort.	2004-03-30
US	51167656	R1YTZYK322PF09	1570720371	202617963	Haunted Tennessee	Books	3	4	5	N	N	More gossip than ghosts.	Charles Edwin Price has written several books dealing with various supernatural subjects and I have generally enjoyed his books.  This book like many of his other works however contains several stories that really do not belong. The title leads on to assume this is a book about Tennessee ghosts and there are indeed some ghost stories to be found within its covers. The ghost stories are interesting and well written but a little shallow and lacking in research. Still, the stories are enjoyable and are fun to read.<br />Price however devotes way too much of his book to folklore and urban legends.  He is quite caught up in Cherokee folklore and these tails, while interesting, do not belong in this book. Neither do the urban legends like the one about the rotting corpse that closely parallels the legend of the man with a hook for a hand. There is even a chapter that basically confuses Elvis' possible ghost with an Elvis impersonator. &quot;Did the woman really see Elvis' ghost,&quot; he asks or did she see an impersonator? Does the fact there was a convention of Elvis imitators in town answer that question or not? I think that maybe Price was reaching just a little for material on that one.<br />When he does impart ghost stories they are good, but too much effort and space is wasted on other things. I've said it before and I'll probably say it again but if Price ever concentrates on reliable recent first person accounts and forgets this other stuff, his books will be much better. The ability and style are there if he would just get rid of all of the old legends and folklore.	2004-03-27
US	51167656	R1QZ31WDI67S4T	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sweet Savannah	Anybody who did not grow up in the south will be amused and charmed by the characters portrayed in this book. Anyone who grew up in the south will really understand the characters because they will almost assuredly know someone in their hometown that fits the same description.  I was able to put different names on several of the people portrayed in this book and thus picture them with perfect clarity. No matter where one might live in the south, if you haven't been gobbled up by the so-called new south, you will feel like you have known these people for years.<br />The story is as intriguing as the characters in it and the reader will find themselves drawn more and more into the story.  I finished the last one hundred and seventy-five pages in one sitting. I was so caught up in what was going on that I couldn't put the book down and ended up going to be around 2:30 in the morning. Berendt develops the characters so well that one really begins to care about what happens to them and what they do next. This is one amazing book.<br />When the movie came out I really didn't think I would like it and didn't see it until a few months ago. After seeing the movie I just had to read the book and I am glad I did. There are some differences in the movie and the book and while the movie is good, the book is better. In fact, I have seldom read a book that I liked as much as this one. John Berendt had a lot of good material to start with to be sure, but his wonderful style of writing makes the story entrancing. It is clear that Berendt considers many of these people his friends and that they feel the same way about him. That he cares deeply about both the people and the story comes through very clearly and is part of the reason the reader will also begin to care.<br />In case you haven't seen the movie I am not going to give away any of the story in this review but whether you have seen the movie or not, do not miss the book. Beg, borrow or buy, I don't care how you get this book but I highly recommend that you read it.but I highly recommend that you read it.	2004-03-26
US	51167656	R3UDIO6LS47W13	091678701X	221919900	New England's Ghostly Haunts (Collectible Classics Series, Number 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Spooky New England	I found a copy of Robert Cahill's &quot;Haunted Happenings&quot; and liked it so much I searched for another of his books. I found this one and devoured it in one sitting.  This book predates the above-mentioned work by nine years and the difference is amazing.  This book is indeed fun and enjoyable but it is nowhere near as good as &quot;Haunted Happenings&quot;. The stories are not as in-depth or as well researched. This book is also not nearly as well written.<br />Cahill by the way is a former sheriff in the line of Salem sheriffs that have fallen victim to the curse of Giles Corey and seems to have fallen into writing books after being forced to retire early. Like all the sheriffs before him he had heart and blood problems. I guess if anyone should know about ghosts it would be him.<br />This book covers ghosts in Marblehead, Machiasport, Maine, Dudleytown, Connecticut, and also some maritime events like the Mary Celeste mystery. Oddly enough the Celeste was first named the Amazon. Of course there are also several of Salem's ghosts which make it into the text.<br />Overall very enjoyable but also very short and without enough detail. Still, the beginnings of a very good writing style show through and this is a good book to pick up before touring New England.  Probably about three and a half stars but I rounded up.	2004-03-26
US	51167656	RMHVY01OEYZOK	0962616230	702385827	Haunted Happenings: with New Photos of Old Ghosts (New England's Collectible Classics)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Bumpy New England Nights.	Robert Ellis Cahill would seem to be the perfect person to write a book about New England's ghosts. As all good ghost aficionados know, Giles Corey placed a curse on Salem and it's sheriff as he was crushed to death during the witch hysteria in 1692. It is also well known that since that time every sheriff of Essex County Massachusetts has either died of or had to retire early due to a heart condition or a blood disease and it just so happens that Cahill was once the sheriff of Essex County.  Like his predecessors he had to take an early retirement because of a rare blood disease, a stroke, and a heart attack. So it isn't a surprise that this man seems to know his ghosts.<br />Cahill travels around with his photographer friend Brian the Monk searching for ghosts. Brian has taken some really eerie photographs that are in themselves worth the price of the book.  The stories to be found include an almost Bell Witch like entity in New Brunswick, a haunted restaurant in Kittery, Maine, a rather evil entity on Baker's Island, and the well known haunting at John Stone's Inn.  Of course there are also some Salem tales, that being the author's hometown.<br />Robert Cahill I think missed his true calling while he was in politics for he is an excellent author. His writing style is wonderful and he weaves his stories in a highly believable manner. There are both humor and chills to be found in this book and it is hard to put it down once you start. I really wish I had known about this book before I toured New England a few years ago because I had to drive right by a place or two that Cahill investigated. The only drawback is that the book is too short. Hopefully there are other books by this author that I haven't found yet.  I am certainly going to be on the lookout.	2004-03-22
US	51167656	R2U0PPAAS4WZTZ	0899199143	649891793	George B McClellan: The Young Napoleon	Books	4	28	29	N	N	A Puzzling Man.	George B. McClellan has always been something of an enigma, both during his lifetime and since.  Stephen W. Sears who is a well know author to Civil War readers decided to take on the task of doing a biography of this puzzling man in 1988 and he has, as usual, done an outstanding job.  Just be aware that this is not a true biography as much as it is a military biography. There is little written record of McClellan's childhood so Sears has little to work with there but most of the General's early life is dealt with in a few chapters. His life after he leaves active duty with the army also gets little attention. Large books are written just about one campaign while Sears gives McClellan's entire presidential campaign less than fifty pages.  His life after the election of 1864 gets even less attention and his time as Governor of New Jersey gets only a few pages.<br />Still, most readers who pick up a book about McClellan are interested mostly in his wartime service and that is exactly what they get here.  Sears does an excellent job of describing various engagements without going into so much detail that he looses the reader. He also gives a very good account of how the General became the favorite of his troops.  Basically, McClellan took care of his men and looked out for their welfare.  So much so that his desire to avoid casualties became one of his downfalls and Sears is quick to point out McClellan's faults, of which there were many.  Overall though, Sears seems to be a little hard on his subject and gives him little credit even when it is due.  For example, in dealing with how quickly McClellan got his army reorganized and back in fighting form after 2nd Manassas Sears only points out that it was accomplished.  In fact, I really can't see any other general on either side putting an army back together after a devastating defeat and having it on the move in such a short time.<br />On the other hand, as Sears points out McClellan seemed to be absolutely incapable of committing his army to battle. Of course the intelligence he was getting from Allan Pinkerton didn't help as the famous detective always over estimated Confederate strength by at least fifty percent.  McClellan took these reports to heart as he did reports from officers who had obviously interviewed Confederate plants who fed them false information.  Clearly these problems didn't help but some of the figures of enemy strength were just downright silly and the General should have been able to sense that. Instead he always seems to have taken the worst scenario to heart and he wasted chance after chance to inflict major defeats on the Confederates.  McClellan was indeed his own worst enemy. Although John B. Magruder does get some long overdue credit in this book for his theatrical tactics that kept McClellan frozen in place several times on the peninsula. Hopefully someday, someone will do a good biography on Magruder.<br />Sears also deals with the General's relationship with the Lincoln Administration and he does so in an excellent manner.  Both McClellan and Lincoln seem to have been a little over sensitive about each other on occasion but McClellan was much worse than Lincoln. On the other hand the General wasn't just paranoid about Secretary Stanton. Stanton was indeed out to get him, as were radical members of Congress.<br />The author as stated before is a little hard on McClellan but overall this is an excellent book.  Sears has grown as a historian since he wrote this volume but this is still probably the definitive work on Little Mac, and probably always will be.  To understand the war in the east one must try to come to grips with McClellan and his personality.  This book will go a long way in helping you do just that.f committing his army to battle. Of course the intelligence he was getting from Allan Pinkerton didn't help as the famous detective always over estimated Confederate strength by at least fifty percent.  McClellan took these reports to heart as he did reports from officers who had obviously interviewed Confederate plants who fed them false information.  Clearly these problems didn't help but some of the figures of enemy strength were just downright silly and the General should have been able to sense that. Instead he always seems to have taken the worst scenario to heart and he wasted chance after chance to inflict major defeats on the Confederates.  McClellan was indeed his own worst enemy. Although John B. Magruder does get some long overdue credit in this book for his theatrical tactics that kept McClellan frozen in place several times on the peninsula. Hopefully someday, someone will do a good biography on Magruder.<br />Sears also deals with the General's relationship with the Lincoln Administration and he does so in an excellent manner.  Both McClellan and Lincoln seem to have been a little over sensitive about each other on occasion but McClellan was much worse than Lincoln. On the other hand the General wasn't just paranoid about Secretary Stanton. Stanton was indeed out to get him, as were radical members of Congress. <br />The author as stated before is a little hard on McClellan but overall this is an excellent book.  Sears has grown as a historian since he wrote this volume but this is still probably the definitive work on Little Mac, and probably always will be.  To understand the war in the east one must try to come to grips with McClellan and his personality.  This book will go a long way in helping you do just that.	2004-03-20
US	51167656	R3J6307Z0QQHJO	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	31	37	N	N	Well worth reading, but..	Edmund Morris has done an admirable job in this book of detailing the presidential years of Teddy Roosevelt.  Be aware however that there are a number of things that Morris does not handle well. For example, Roosevelt's relationship with his family is seldom mentioned. Basically, the Roosevelt family is pretty well ignored.  His eldest daughter, Alice gets some attention but not much.  To Morris' credit, Roosevelt's very intense relationship with his family would have been impossible to fully cover in this volume. An entire book could be written just about the father-daughter relationship with Alice, let alone Edith and the rest of his brood.  When Edith is covered she comes across as a pretty hard to like snob. Maybe she is left out so as not to muddle the warm feeling the reader will develop for T.R. Still, Morris could have given a little more attention to what T.R.s family was up to and how it might have influenced him.  One of the very things that makes David McCullough's biographies so wonderful is his ability to weave his subject's family life into their professional life.  Morris has done a good job but he is no David McCullough.<br />Morris however does an excellent job of including Roosevelt's associates in his narrative.  John Hay in particular comes across as someone who is somewhat uncertain of how to take T.R. and is often swept aside by his sometimes rash boss.  On the other hand, the reader will easily begin to see that Hay and Roosevelt bonded in such a way as to end in a deeply affectionate relationship.  His relationships with the rest of his entourage are well covered also as one gets a pretty full picture of their interaction.  Morris has also done an excellent job of presenting Teddy's relationship with several members of Congress, including GOP stalwarts such as Mark Hanna and Joseph Foraker, along with a few Democrats like &quot;Pitchfork&quot; Ben Tillman.  Through these relationships one gets a very clear picture of the President as he moves with great political skill, picking a fight here, and spreading manure there to get his way.  It becomes very clear very early in this book that Theodore Roosevelt was one of the great politicians of all time.<br />The Roosevelt foreign policy is a little harder to figure as his decision making process, if indeed there was one, is a little hard to fathom.  It is clear of course that he is an imperialist but some of his actions regarding conflicts in Europe defy description.  Although he spent a large amount of time in Germany in his youth, Roosevelt come across as very anti-German.  In a sad comment on Roosevelt's style of leadership, he seems to have sometimes made judgments based on the advice of his favorite tennis buddies.  The French Ambassador being one of his favorite tennis opponents might help to explain the President's attitude toward Germany.<br />After being elected on his own in 1904, Roosevelt made a leftward shift and began pushing even more progressive reforms.  The shift is clear in this book but not much discussed and in fact much more than half of the book is taken by the first term.  In dealing with the second term the author seems to dwell on the President's legislative successes and mostly ignores the many things Roosevelt unsuccessfully tried to push through Congress.  Unfortunately, the failures may much more clearly illustrate the real Roosevelt than the successes and again an opportunity to more fully understand the subject of the book is lost.  Morris does however touch on Roosevelt's growing admiration for William Jennings Bryan, a clear indication of the President's leftward shift.<br />Morris has put together a book that is sometimes very informative and sometimes a little lacking in depth. It is overall a very good book and is a well-written and easy to read volume.  Some of the more personal antidotes dealing with T.R. are excellent and Morris certainly had an interesting subject to work with.  Unfortunately, one never gets the feeling of really knowing Roosevelt.  There is a lot of fascinating information here but I can't help but feel that something is missing.  Still, I highly recommend this book because while it may come up a little short of the mark, it is no doubt the best work on Roosevelt's presidency to date.feeling of really knowing Roosevelt.  There is a lot of fascinating information here but I can't help but feel that something is missing.  Still, I highly recommend this book because while it may come up a little short of the mark, it is no doubt the best work on Roosevelt's presidency to date.	2004-03-14
US	51167656	R19NIJQLXVJFQ2	1558536612	274052181	Strange Tales of the Dark and Bloody Ground: Authentic Accounts of Restless Spirits, Haunted Honky Tonks, and Eerie Events in Tennessee	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ghosts of Hank, Sr. and Elvis. What could be better?	I buy and read books about ghosts on a fairly regular basis and have found that there is seldom a proper balance between the ghost story itself and the history of the possible haunt.  Some authors breeze along with one ghost story after another never quite giving the reader any real idea of what may have caused the haunting.  Other authors spend most of their time telling the reader why the place might be haunted and then spend only a paragraph or two on actual sightings of the ghost.  It is rare indeed to find a book that seems to have the mix just about right and Christopher Coleman has given us one of those rare books.<br />As Coleman glides from one area of Tennessee to another he lays just the right groundwork and then tells us a good ghost story.  His writing style is great and I actually found myself a little spooked while reading some of the stories.  It didn't help my state of mind when I found that two of his stories were about ghosts in my home county.  Coleman of course covers the well known ghosts of Tennessee, like the Bell Witch and the Chapel Hill lights while at the same time giving a lot of space to some obscure ghost stories that were completely new to me. Also, anyone who plans to visit the Volunteer State would do well to read this book whether they are interested in ghosts or not for Coleman does a good job of catching the spirit (no pun intended) of the state.  After all, what's a trip to Tennessee without some exposure to Elvis, country music, Confederate soldiers, and of course Jack Daniel.<br />I was about to deduct a star because Coleman has included some UFO, Spontaneous Human Combustion, and other tales that have nothing to do with ghosts.  I noticed however that the title gave the author wiggle room there and since the book is so good I decided five stars were indeed deserved. I don't know how I missed reading this book for so long but I am glad I finally got around to it and recommend that you give it a try also.	2004-03-02
US	51167656	RWH1WZBKY08MY	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	22	24	N	N	This stuff is scary.	Paul O'Neill came to the Bush White House with very impressive credentials. He had worked for several previous Republican Presidents and had been a successful CEO of a major company.  He was also a long time friend of several key players in the Bush Administration, most notably Dick Cheney.  Almost from the beginning O'Neill began to see signs of trouble.  For one thing, the President seemed to treat those who worked for him poorly and worse yet the new Chief Executive didn't really seem to have a clue as to what was going on.  Previous Presidents that O'Neill had worked with had meetings with him and asked probing questions that showed deep insight and a desire to learn about what they didn't understand.  G.W.B. just sat there with a blank look in his face.  Apparently he was that way with most everybody because no one seemed to know what he wanted, a situation that would cause problems.<br />Then there was the first meeting of the NSC.  From that point on it was clear to O'Neill that the Administration was determined to go to war with Iraq and was just looking for an excuse.  Many will not be inclined to believe Mr. Suskind's book especially regarding Iraq but O'Neill brought with him documents that prove his accusations.  Before I go farther, let me say that this book was written by Ron Suskind about Paul O'Neill's experiences in the Bush White House and was written with Mr. O\\"Neill's complete cooperation and backing.<br />Mr. O'Neill worked with EPA Secretary Whitman on global warming because even as a former CEO he could see that the evidence was pretty conclusive.  The extreme right in the White House shot them down however and made Mrs. Whitman look ridicules because she had assumed GWB meant what he said during the campaign.  Colin Powell tried to conduct diplomacy in an honorable manner but he too was shot down by Rove and company.  When the Enron scandal hit, O'Neill and Alan Greenspan tried to actually fix the problem that had led to that mess. Again Rove and his gang shot them down.  Fortunately, O'Neill was able to occasionally push aside the flaky ideas of Larry Lindsey.  Lindsey is an extreme right wing economist who on fairly scant credentials had worked his way into the Bush Administration. Give at least some credit to the Administration; Lindsey is gone too.<br />Finally, as the deficits continued to grow and grow, O'Neill began to despair of ever getting the President to understand what he was doing. As that despair grew so did the Treasury Secretary's boldness. The Rove, Card and Cheney gang finally had all they could stand and managed to get rid of O'Neill, much to the disgust of many Republicans including many who had served daddy Bush.  So why did Mr. O'Neill decide to help with this book?  The Bush team it seems had engaged in some rather low down tactics to hush some other former Administration officials and O'Neill finally decided that he had to speak up and tell the truth.  O'Neill told the author that he was old and rich so there was little the Bush men could do to him and the truth has come out.  Of course O'Neill has been smeared and belittled by the White House but even though I disagree with Mr. O'Neill on many things he comes across as a sincere and honest man. Honest enough to put the country before party and tell what the current administration is really like.<br />You will find that the writing style in this book is fairly good but a little dry at times.  The author seems to assume that everyone will understand some of the economic theory put forth but I occasionally found myself exhibiting the same kind of blank stare the President often wore. All in all though, this is a very good book and every American who doesn't believe we should blindly believe everything the President says should read it and decide for themselves.and his gang shot them down.  Fortunately, O'Neill was able to occasionally push aside the flaky ideas of Larry Lindsey.  Lindsey is an extreme right wing economist who on fairly scant credentials had worked his way into the Bush Administration. Give at least some credit to the Administration; Lindsey is gone too.<br />Finally, as the deficits continued to grow and grow, O'Neill began to despair of ever getting the President to understand what he was doing. As that despair grew so did the Treasury Secretary's boldness. The Rove, Card and Cheney gang finally had all they could stand and managed to get rid of O'Neill, much to the disgust of many Republicans including many who had served daddy Bush.  So why did Mr. O'Neill decide to help with this book?  The Bush team it seems had engaged in some rather low down tactics to hush some other former Administration officials and O'Neill finally decided that he had to speak up and tell the truth.  O'Neill told the author that he was old and rich so there was little the Bush men could do to him and the truth has come out.  Of course O'Neill has been smeared and belittled by the White House but even though I disagree with Mr. O'Neill on many things he comes across as a sincere and honest man. Honest enough to put the country before party and tell what the current administration is really like.<br />You will find that the writing style in this book is fairly good but a little dry at times.  The author seems to assume that everyone will understand some of the economic theory put forth but I occasionally found myself exhibiting the same kind of blank stare the President often wore. All in all though, this is a very good book and every American who doesn't believe we should blindly believe everything the President says should read it and decide for themselves.	2004-02-27
US	51167656	R3LUZQV1PJS7T8	0964025434	56001970	Living with Ghosts: True Tales of the Paranormal	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good and bad, but not ugly.	This is a book that is somewhat hard to review.  The parts that are good are very good; but the parts that are bad are unfortunately very bad.  Let us discuss the bad part first and get it out of the way.  The first part of the book deals with the sickness and death of Mrs. Fiedel's husband Sam.  It is a very touching section and was written about someone she obviously loved very much. This section however has little to do with ghosts and ghosts are supposed to be the subject of this book.  Nearly half of the book is taken up with this story and since the whole enterprise is only eighty-seven pages long the ghosts by necessity get pushed aside.  The author has a lovely writing style and should really think about writing a book about her experiences to help others that are or have gone through the same ordeal as she and Sam.  This book however should have been dedicated to the subject of ghosts and that alone.<br />Once the reader finds the ghost stories, things improve greatly.  Most of Mrs. Fiedel's tales of the paranormal are quite touching and only one is the least bit scary.  The writing is good and there are eyewitness accounts of the hauntings.  As I stated earlier, the author's writing style is very good and the second part of the book is hard to put down.  If the rest of her books are as good as the second half of this one I definitely want them for my library.  In fact, after reading the ghost section of the book I am even more upset than I was while reading the first section because I would really have liked to have read more of the author's ghost stories.	2004-02-23
US	51167656	R342AIBJPN0NOC	0029099110	71064820	Judah P. Benjamin: The Jewish Confederate	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Mr. Benjamin goes to Richmond.	Most every student of the Civil War has heard of Judah P. Benjamin but very few people know anything about him except that he served in three positions in the Confederate Cabinet.  Most of these same people are also aware that Benjamin was Jewish and from Louisiana, but that is about it.  This lack of knowledge about Benjamin may come from the fact that its generals often overshadow the Confederate government or it may come from Benjamin's own desire to sink into anonymity following the war.  This desire on Benjamin's part has in great part made a study of him very difficult for he destroyed almost every document with his name on it, including personal correspondence.  Eli Evans has taken on the difficult task though, and has turned out a fantastic biography of the elusive Benjamin.<br />Benjamin's early life is dealt with in some detail, especially after he arrives in New Orleans looking for a fresh start.  Through skill and hard work Judah became one of the most successful lawyers in New Orleans.  He married into the Creole ruling class and gained in stature but also gained a wife who would be an embarrassment to him for the rest of his life.  During this time he built a plantation and became an agricultural innovator and was remembered by his former slaves long after the war for his kindness. Benjamin was very much a progressive and this would show up later in his plans for a Confederate Emancipation Proclamation.<br />Benjamin moved into politics and was in his second term in the U.S. Senate when Louisiana left the Union.  He and Jefferson Davis had not gotten along very well in the Senate and Benjamin had once come to the point of challenging his Mississippi colleague to a duel. As the new Confederate President looked for a Cabinet however he wanted someone from each Confederate State and Benjamin was the obvious choice for Louisiana.  From that point on a friendship blossomed that would end up making Benjamin Davis' closest advisor and confidant. This is the story Evans tells so well.<br />Benjamin, for his country and his President was willing to serve as a scapegoat on several occasions for unpopular decisions Davis had to make.  He also took the blame a few times for not sending needed supplies to certain points rather than hurt Confederate moral by admitting that they simply didn't have the supplies in question.  Evans does a superb job of relating Benjamin's hard work and also the never-ending venom that was directed at him, especially by opponents of President Davis.<br />The weak points of the book come when Evans leaves his subject and starts to write about things that he knows little about.  He very quickly dispenses with battles but still often makes errors and naturally repeats the old fable about shoes at Gettysburg.  He also has problems accepting that Tennessee did in fact leave the Union and while there were Tennessee men in the Union army there were many, many more in Confederate service.  Tennessee was left out of Lincoln's proclamation simply because most of the state was under occupation and Andrew Johnson intervened for the rest of the state.  Still, if one just sort of ignores some of his statements that do not involve Benjamin, Evans has written an excellent book.<br />The final chapters trace Benjamin as he escapes to England and rebuilds his life to become one of the top lawyers in London. He remains deeply concerned about his imprisoned President but is also afraid that if the anti-Semitic Andrew Johnson can catch him he will again be the scapegoat and face a rope.  Fortunately, cooler heads finally prevail and Benjamin is left alone to wow the English legal world.<br />Benjamin obviously deserves more credit than he gets from Confederate historians but his destruction of most of his papers have made studying him a difficult task. Eli Evans has taken on this task and has done a masterful job.  This book is an even more spectacular achievement when one considers that Benjamin took deliberate stepsto avoid having his biography written. Any student of the Confederacy needs a copy of this book in their library. Also, anyone interested in Jewish-American history will find this book a must read despite Benjamin's tendency to not practice his religion by among other things, having a smokehouse full of delicious hams.teps to avoid having his biography written. Any student of the Confederacy needs a copy of this book in their library. Also, anyone interested in Jewish-American history will find this book a must read despite Benjamin's tendency to not practice his religion by among other things, having a smokehouse full of delicious hams.	2004-02-22
US	51167656	ROQSQL96B6CCS	0807827452	1186759	Lee's Last Retreat: The Flight to Appomattox	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Bravery and valor all around.	William Marvel has come under a fair amount of criticism for this book.  Mostly he is accused of being anti-southern and attempting to re-write history in a manner that is not flattering to the troops of the Army of Northern Virginia. On the contrary, I found this to be an engaging book that not only does not rip away the luster of courage that is usually bestowed on the common Confederate soldier but actually accentuates it.<br />After nine months in the trenches of Petersburg it is no wonder that Lee's men were beaten down.  A late uncle of mine fought in the trenches during WW I and his stories of the trenches made it clear to me just how awful trench warfare is.  Finally the tenacious Grant turned Lee's flank at Five Forks and the Confederate Chieftain knew the game was up.  Marvel takes up his story with the evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond and tells the story of the miserable conditions faced by both armies in the days that followed. Lee made mistakes and Marvel has the courage to point them out.  Still one has to wonder if Lee could have gotten his army to North Carolina even if he had conducted a flawless retreat.  As the author points out, the Yankees could smell a final victory and the chance to at last go home.  They were therefore much more inclined to accept a lack of rations and forced marches than were the Confederates.  A few more days of hardship could send the men in blue home while all the boys in gray could look forward to was a Yankee prison.<br />I really have to wonder if Lee really wanted to make it to North Carolina.  Marvel fails here to delve into the talks Lee had held with Secretary of War John C. Breckinridge long before Petersburg fell.  Breckinridge realized the war was lost and had been discussing surrender with Lee, who seemed to agree with the hero of New Market.  I suspect that Lee really did want to get to the Army of Tennessee but was not willing to cause many more deaths in what he had to know was a long shot.<br />Marvel does go to great lengths to point out that Walter Taylor's estimates of troop strength were distorted and that the Union had fewer men than Taylor said and the Confederates had more.  On the other hand the Union troops were on a high while the Confederates had just lost Richmond and moral was extremely low. Marvel points out that the difference in real and Taylor's estimated troop strengths might have been made up for by this difference in moral.  In fact, the Confederates almost to the end were more than willing to fight and when they turned on their pursuers and sent up the Rebel yell the Union troops usually reacted by falling back.  Even after Lee surrendered many of his veterans vowed to fight on after they were exchanged.  Marvel does nothing to cast aspersions on these brave men and in fact points out that many Confederates refused to be surrendered and fled the scene to fight again.  It is true that the author points out the large number of desertions that accompanied the retreat but he also excuses most of them.  For example, he points out that a large group had just been exchanged and had returned from Union prisons and would rather just walk away from the army than return to those prisons.  The reader will find that some of Marvel's harshest criticism is reserved for Phil Sheridan and George Custer and their fanatical drive for unearned glory and Joshua L. Chamberlain's ego.<br />The one really glaring problem with this book is the maps or rather the lack thereof.  There are a few maps but not nearly enough and what maps there are could have been made much more useful by actually showing troop movements on them.  It is fairly hard to follow the armies across Virginia without good maps; I don't care how well the author tells the story.  I think maybe he assume the reader is as familiar with the area as he is.  Marvel does argue that the Confederates had a better chance of making the link with Johnston than has been accepted fact, but he backs up his argument. His argument that sheer wealth and numbers in the overall war did not overwhelm the South however is just silly fortunately that argument only comes up at the end of the book. Other than that though I found this to be a highly readable, well-researched, intelligent and fair book.ment. His argument that sheer wealth and numbers in the overall war did not overwhelm the South however is just silly fortunately that argument only comes up at the end of the book. Other than that though I found this to be a highly readable, well-researched, intelligent and fair book.	2004-02-16
US	51167656	R60V7O6TZZSLW	0740718665	310120549	Coast To Coast Ghosts: True Stories of Hauntings Across America	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Spooks aplenty.	Leslie Rule has put together a wonderful collection of ghost stories that are indeed collected from, Coast to Coast.&quot;  The author obviously inherited her mother's writing ability for her style is engrossing and she has taken the time to investigate her stories.  I would guess that several years and thousands of miles went into collecting these stories.  It is also a plus that the author fully believes in her subject matter and includes several of her own paranormal experiences in this book.<br />The stories are a little short on depth and detail but still the stories are very engaging and believable. I was delighted to see that the author had done some investigating of her own on the Whaley House in San Diego and had discovered that the haunting there might not be as clean and neat as it is packaged to be.  The author includes a story from her husband concerning the Myrtles Plantation in Louisiana, a haunting of which I have always been skeptical.  In fact, a major ghost hunting society has recently announced its doubts about the Myrtles.  No matter the ghost hunters or my doubts, the Myrtles ghost or ghosts seem to have convinced Leslie's husband Kevin.<br />Any ghost story aficionado will want this book in their collection.  What it lacks in depth it makes up for in feeling.  I hope that this is not Leslie Rule's last offering of ghost tales for I enjoyed it immensely.	2004-02-09
US	51167656	RL2MEPV411RM8	0803273231	435779683	Fighting Joe Hooker	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Stands the test of time.	History tends to remember Joe Hooker for one thing; the disaster at Chancellorsville.  It was at that battle that Hooker for once, &quot;lost confidence in Hooker.&quot;  Unfortunately, Hooker held his highest military position at Chancellorsville and that one low point overshadows the rest of a rather illustrious career.<br />Walter Hebert published this book in 1944 and while new heights in civil war scholarship have been attained since then, this is in my opinion the definitive work on Joe Hooker.  Hebert does an outstanding job of bringing General Hooker to life.  The General has many virtues and Hebert points those out as well as Hooker's faults.  One of Hookers greatest virtues as well as one of his greatest faults was his confidence in himself.  This vast confidence made him willing to actually fight while many around him were timid in the extreme.  On the other hand this confidence is what caused his loud impatience with his superiors and led to his downfall.  Hooker also had a keen military mind and his plan for the Chancellorsville campaign was an excellent plan if only he had had the nerve to put his plan into action.  Amazingly, after Chancellorsville as Lee began his movement north, Hooker predicted the action at Gettysburg.<br />Hooker had made an enemy of Henry Halleck and that, more than Chancellorsville led to his leaving the Army of the Potomac.  Still, Hooker had friends in Washington and was given a Corps to take to the relief of Rosecrans in Chattanooga.  Again Hooker distinguished himself but here too he had an enemy in William T. Sherman.  As the Federals started out for Atlanta it was usually Hooker's men who bore the brunt of the fighting but because of Sherman's enmity, got little of the credit.  Sherman finally managed to rid himself of Hooker by getting him to resign and then slandered Fighting Joe in his memoirs.  Others who were involved like Henry Slocum, who was no friend of Hooker, later discredited Sherman's narratives of some events.  Of course, Hooker had brought all of this on himself but it was still a sad situation.<br />Hebert does such a fine job of writing that one feels he has come to know Joe Hooker.  One in fact, really begins to like the man.  On occasion I found myself rooting for him to succeed, until I remembered he was a Yankee and came to my senses.  I have often said that a biography is a true success if when the subject dies the reader feels a sense of loss.  I felt that when Hooker died because in the pages of Hebert's book I felt I had come to know Joe Hooker personally.  In a world overrun with civil war biographies, this has to be one of the best.s.  Of course, Hooker had brought all of this on himself but it was still a sad situation.<br />Hebert does such a fine job of writing that one feels he has come to know Joe Hooker.  One in fact, really begins to like the man.  On occasion I found myself rooting for him to succeed, until I remembered he was a Yankee and came to my senses.  I have often said that a biography is a true success if when the subject dies the reader feels a sense of loss.  I felt that when Hooker died because in the pages of Hebert's book I felt I had come to know Joe Hooker personally.  In a world overrun with civil war biographies, this has to be one of the best.	2004-02-05
US	51167656	R1QP0G0AFE5E1L	158234230X	763163008	Death Makes a Holiday: A Cultural History of Halloween	Books	3	34	37	N	N	Something of a letdown.	Like many in the baby boom generation, I grew up loving Halloween and have been reluctant to give the holiday up.  For years I had a rather elaborate yard haunt that seemed to grow bigger and bigger each year. I haven't put on the annual production in a while but one of these Octobers the casket is going to come out of the garage then its trick-or-treaters beware.  With that in mind, one day while browsing around Amazon I came across this book and it caught my interest given my love for the macabre holiday and its traditions.<br />David Skal in this book gives the reader a quick overview of the holiday.  There is a little on the history, a little on the traditions, a little on the legends and a little on about the darker side of Halloween. There is not however much detail on any subject.  For example his chapter about Halloween movies deals almost exclusively with the &quot;Halloween&quot; movie series and its shortcomings. If he had just switched over to television he could have written an entire chapter just on The Simpsons, let alone all of the other series that have started to do Halloween episodes, something almost unheard of before 1990 or so.<br />I found his chapter on debunking the poison candy myths to be one of the best in the book and was of course attracted to the chapter on yard haunts.  The chapter he offers about witches was also interesting although I am sure there are some Salem merchants who would disagree.  Overall this is a pretty good book but it could have been much better.  The appearance of the author's personal agenda on occasion didn't help but overall I just never really got a feel for what he was trying to say about Halloween.  I enjoyed the book and did pick up a few bits of information but I couldn't help but think something was missing.  The man has to love Halloween to have written so much about it but that love for the holiday just doesn't come across in this book.<br />Yes, there is something about Halloween that has a great appeal to my generation.  I can't really explain it and so I guess I can't complain if Mr. Skal can't either.  This is not a bad book; it just doesn't live up to the glory of the holiday it is about.eal to my generation.  I can't really explain it and so I guess I can't complain if Mr. Skal can't either.  This is not a bad book; it just doesn't live up to the glory of the holiday it is about.	2004-01-30
US	51167656	RX9V4EBZDQJB1	1572493283	572680337	September 11, 1777: Washington's Defeat at Brandywine Dooms Philadelphia	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Well intended.	Bruce Mowday might well ought to be listed as editor of this book rather than its author because much of the time all one finds here is one long quoted passage after another.  Worse yet the passages are often repetitive and sometimes drag on for more than a page of text.  On several occasions, one long passage ends just in time for a one-sentence introduction to the next long quoted passage. Many of the passages the author quotes are from official military reports, which have all of the flair, and literary style of a dead fish and the book often drags along accordingly.<br />Mowday not only includes repetitive quotes but also often repeats himself.  As an example, every time Captain John Marshall is mentioned, Mowday reminds the reader that Marshall would some day sit on the Supreme Court.  An important point but the author's first notation of this point was sufficient.  Between his own repetitions and the extremely long quoted passages, one gets the idea the author is simply trying to make the book long enough to be worth printing.<br />The sad thing is that when Mowday actually takes the time to write for himself the text is fairly smooth and enjoyable.  Just as one is beginning to enjoy the book however, along comes another long quoted passage. Quite frankly, the author is correct in saying this battle does not get the attention it deserves but unfortunately he does the subject no justice.  The troop movements, which are the key to understanding the battle, are hard to follow and what maps there are leave much to be desired.  It is just simply hard to figure out what is going on. Add to these problems a severe lack of depth as the author never more than scratches the surface.  For example, General Howe's decision to abandon Johnny Burgoyne and head for Philadelphia is barely covered.  Probably the most important aspect of the Philadelphia campaign is that Burgoyne, left on his own, was forced to surrender his army which probably helped bring France into the war.  Mowday never mentions Howe's intense dislike for Burgoyne and his probable desire to see Gentleman Johnny fail. Howe would have had to completely destroy Washington at Brandywine to make up for what happened to Burgoyne, but Mowday never mentions this scenario.<br />Mowday obviously knows his subject and has done a considerable amount of research.  His writing is excellent when he actually writes something and I kept thinking the book would get better.  Unfortunately it didn't.  I realize that for the author, this was a labor of love and I would really like to recommend this book, but I can't.Mowday never mentions Howe's intense dislike for Burgoyne and his probable desire to see Gentleman Johnny fail. Howe would have had to completely destroy Washington at Brandywine to make up for what happened to Burgoyne, but Mowday never mentions this scenario. <br />Mowday obviously knows his subject and has done a considerable amount of research.  His writing is excellent when he actually writes something and I kept thinking the book would get better.  Unfortunately it didn't.  I realize that for the author, this was a labor of love and I would really like to recommend this book, but I can't.	2004-01-28
US	51167656	R1UYA9NF0EIM14	0807846694	211418628	Pea Ridge: Civil War Campaign in the West (Civil War America)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	General Van Dorn Stinks up Arkansas.	Almost from the end of the war, most of the books and articles about various battles and leaders of the civil war tended to focus on Virginia.  The western theater got nowhere near the attention it deserved and the Trans-Mississippi has been almost completely ignored.  Fortunately, William Shea and Earl Hess have decided to end all of that and have given us a wonderful book about the campaigns that cumulated in the Battle of Pea Ridge.  Remarkable characters with which many readers will not be familiar like Van Dorn, Curtis, Price and Pike will begin to come into focus and will not be easily forgotten.<br />The authors do an excellent job also of telling the stories of the common soldiers.  They had to have dug through mountains of newspapers and journals to come up with all of this information but the results are well worth their efforts.  Quote after quote tells the reader of the miserable conditions, the incessant marching, the hunger, and the fear.  A large number of maps and portraits are a great help as the reader tries to picture what is going on.  Many authors of this kind of detailed study of a battle end up giving the reader headaches with minute details about troop movements, but Shea and Hess manage to get the information across without becoming dull at all.<br />The portrait painted of this campaign is quite clear.  Untimely deaths of commanders on the battlefield played a large part in the Confederate defeat, but mostly it was their inept General.  With the exception of General Sigel, the Union commanders seem to have been an excellent group of officers who led brave men and led them well.  Often overlooked is the bravery and fortitude of the common soldiers of both sides.  These authors do not make that mistake.  Shea and Hess do call it like they see it though and Freemasons beware, Albert Pike is not well treated.<br />The authors conclude with a look at the battle of Pea Ridge from a larger perspective.  Many tactics used during this odd winter campaign would later become common practice for Union armies.  Generals Grant and Sherman would take a large page from Curtis' play book when they in campaigns to come cut their supply lines and lived off of the land.  As the authors point out, General Curtis does not get the credit he deserves for what he did at Pea Ridge.  Things in Tennessee might have turned out very differently if the Federals had lost on that little ridge in Arkansas.  To really understand the entire civil war, one must grasp what was going on in the west.  To understand the west, one needs to grasp what happened at Pea Ridge.  This book will go a long way in helping you reach that goal.er campaign would later become common practice for Union armies.  Generals Grant and Sherman would take a large page from Curtis' play book when they in campaigns to come cut their supply lines and lived off of the land.  As the authors point out, General Curtis does not get the credit he deserves for what he did at Pea Ridge.  Things in Tennessee might have turned out very differently if the Federals had lost on that little ridge in Arkansas.  To really understand the entire civil war, one must grasp what was going on in the west.  To understand the west, one needs to grasp what happened at Pea Ridge.  This book will go a long way in helping you reach that goal.	2004-01-26
US	51167656	R2ZY78ELFGWZ7X	1592230059	574824205	The Bird Lover's Backyard Handbook: Attracting, Nesting, Feeding	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A bird-lovers must have!	Jan Mahnken has put together a book that will be of great help to anyone who would like to have a backyard full of birds.  Whether you are new to the hobby of feeding and watching birds or are an old pro this book will be of great help.  If you are a new birder this book is a must for it is well written and easy to understand. In the long run will save you a lot of money as it will help you decide on the kinds of feed you need and what will just be wasted.  For the old pro, the clear division of subjects and easy to read writing style will help you add to the knowledge you already have.<br />The chapter on nest boxes is one of the best in the book and includes plans for building almost any type of birdhouse that you  choose.  There are also sections on bird behavior, nesting, and identifying different kinds of birds.  The last section of the book provides little biographies of various kinds of birds you may be able to attract to your backyard.  The only negative I found in this book was that the author tried to describe the ranges of the birds profiled instead of providing a map.  Living in the mid-south I am relatively close to several ranges and sometimes found Ms. Mahnken's descriptions of range limits somewhat hard to follow.  Finally, there is an index that will help you immensely in trying to attract certain kinds of birds and in identifying their nests.<br />I am extremely glad I bought this book, as it has already been a big help to me.  It will hold a prominent place in my library.	2004-01-20
US	51167656	RB5MQXQ7TP8PG	0385501390	852442680	American Scoundrel: The Life of the Notorious Civil War General Dan Sickles	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dan the man.	Any students of the civil war and especially of Gettysburg will not only recognize the name of Dan Sickles but will probably already have a strong opinion about the man.  Did he almost cause disaster for the Union at Gettysburg or did he save the day?  That is a question that will probably be argued for the next one hundred and forty years just as it has been for the last one hundred and forty years.  This book will not help the reader to decide that question, nor will it give much in the way of details about any of the battles General Sickles was involved in.  This is a biography that does not dwell on the aspects of the General's life that have been detailed over and over by other authors, but instead searches for what made Dan Sickles tick.<br />There are indeed some historical inaccuracies to be found in this book.  As mentioned by other reviewers, Stonewall Jackson did not die on the battlefield at Chancellorsville and it is unlikely that Mr. Keneally's remarks about James Longstreet's actions on July 2, 1863 show any real understanding of the reality on the Confederate side of the battlefield on that hot summer day.  Still, I tend to attribute that to the author concentrating on his subject and just more or less casting a glancing blow toward a subject he didn't take the time to research.  On the topic of Dan Sickles the author seems to be right on target.<br />Indeed, the author does spend a lot of time discussing Sickles' relationship with his first wife and of course on the killing of Barton Key.  But to really understand Dan Sickles, one has to understand his relationships with women and his reaction to the affair his wife was having.  Read carefully through these pages and you will start to understand the man and his motives.  In discovering his wife's affair his pride seems to have been more wounded than his affection for his wife.  He indeed seems to have realized very early that his very promising political career was ruined and one gets the distinct feeling that the loss of his power and prestige was the real cause for his murderous fury.  He had very little of a relationship with his wife before the murder and soon after his trial things were pretty much back to normal.  He simply was not good husband material, period.<br />The driving force behind Dan Sickles was ambition for power and glory.  Money meant little to the man and he was always in debt as he squandered the money he had in order to appear more affluent than he was.  Still, he had some highly redeeming qualities.  He was a mover behind the establishment of Central Park and the preservation of our battlefields.  Much of his money was spent giving handouts to destitute veterans who came to him asking for help and he seems to have mastered almost any task he took on.  One telling story is of Champ Clark's young son who roamed freely around the House chamber during Dan's last term in Congress.  The young boy spent a lot of time on the old General's lap and always came away with his pockets filled with candy or other such treats.  Dan Sickles had a good side and this book brings that out.<br />Basically, this is a very well written book that in spite of its faults helps the reader to come to know General Dan Sickles.  After reading this book one will more clearly understand all of his actions, including those actions on that fateful July afternoon in Pennsylvania.eeling that the loss of his power and prestige was the real cause for his murderous fury.  He had very little of a relationship with his wife before the murder and soon after his trial things were pretty much back to normal.  He simply was not good husband material, period. <br />The driving force behind Dan Sickles was ambition for power and glory.  Money meant little to the man and he was always in debt as he squandered the money he had in order to appear more affluent than he was.  Still, he had some highly redeeming qualities.  He was a mover behind the establishment of Central Park and the preservation of our battlefields.  Much of his money was spent giving handouts to destitute veterans who came to him asking for help and he seems to have mastered almost any task he took on.  One telling story is of Champ Clark's young son who roamed freely around the House chamber during Dan's last term in Congress.  The young boy spent a lot of time on the old General's lap and always came away with his pockets filled with candy or other such treats.  Dan Sickles had a good side and this book brings that out.<br />Basically, this is a very well written book that in spite of its faults helps the reader to come to know General Dan Sickles.  After reading this book one will more clearly understand all of his actions, including those actions on that fateful July afternoon in Pennsylvania.	2004-01-19
US	51167656	RQN0ZDMQ8ZW6K	0809238403	222418845	I Never Believed In Ghosts Until . . .	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Fluffy but fun.	If you are looking for ghost investigations, haunted sites to inspect, stories with a lot of depth, or just some really frightening ghost stories, this is not the book for you.  These are stories submitted to USA Today by its readers and they have crammed 100 stories into a little over 200 pages so it is obvious that most of these stories are less than two pages long.  For the most part these are &quot;When I was a little girl...&quot; or, &quot;One night when I was alone in the house...&quot; stories.  In other words, the stories are short and sweet and straight to the point.  A few of these writers had indeed done some research and found out just why the ghost might have been there or who it might have been, but not many.<br />On the other hand this is a fun book and I enjoyed it immensely. The stories generally come straight from the eyewitnesses and have the definite sound of truth.  Most of the stories try to be scary, but aren't really, except for the story of the secret door.  That one was indeed rather eerie and the best chapter by far is the one titled Hauntings, which contained the secret door story.  Some of the stories never tried to be scary but were quite touching.  They say love never dies and some of these stories bring that to mind.  You really won't learn much from this book but you will have a blast reading it. For the serious student of the paranormal this book will be a let down but for the rest of us who like good ghost stories it's a winner.	2004-01-09
US	51167656	R3RYE80ZM4HBUH	0517662043	925062005	They Called Him Stonewall: A Life of Lt. General TJ Jackson, CSA	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Mighty Stonewall.	This book has come in for some criticism from other reviewers and many of their points are well taken.  One has to remember however that this book was first published in 1954, a time when the cult of the lost cause was still very much alive and kicking.  This is a prime example of civil war literature of that era.  Davis actually shows a good deal of courage in that he did criticize the mighty Stonewall at all.  No, this book does not compare favorably with some of the civil war studies that are available today, but it still has a place.  In fact this would be an excellent book for someone with no background in civil war studies.  For someone who has never heard of A.P. Hill or Richard Ewell this book offers an excellent introduction to the campaigns in Virginia.<br />Davis has a pleasant writing style, which makes this an easy book to read. He sprinkles his narrative with amusing antidotes which add greatly to the book and he does not get bogged down in battle the battle details that derail so many books of this sort.  The map of the valley campaign does allow the reader to get an idea of the relation of the significant points to each other but a few more maps sprinkled here and there would be of a great deal of help.  Jackson of course wore his religion on his sleeve and Davis deals with that extensively.  Calvin's influence is obvious although I found it interesting that while in Mexico the General flirted with the Roman Catholic Church.  Some of Jackson's habits however cannot be explained by his religious beliefs and some of his behavior is frankly quite odd.  Davis gets points for pointing out that Jackson absolutely refused to take any responsibility for failure, always looking for a scapegoat. This of course explains the long running feuds he had with some of his generals.  In 1954 circles that criticism of the much revered Stonewall must have raised some eyebrows for as every southerner who is over 40 knows, Stonewall was always right and we would have won easily at Gettysburg if he had only been there. Every time we go to Gettysburg my wife points that out to me and thinks I am crazy because I don't necessarily agree with her.<br />I do have a problem with the fact that Davis does not have the courage to take on the Jackson legend so far as to point out his failures during the Seven Days Battles.  I realize that it would have been a hard sell in 1954 but Davis fails to do much more than point out that Jackson was unusually slow during this period and does not really even attempt to answer the questions raised by the General's behavior.  In fact, had Jackson not failed so badly during this campaign the Union army might have been almost destroyed.  After Jackson's failure below Richmond it is indeed almost a miracle that Lee would later have enough confidence in Jackson to give him command of a corps.  A lot more detail would have helped in this area.<br />Overall though, I found this to be an excellent biography.  There is to be found here what was new information in 1954.  This book in fact has been the foundation for many of the later and yes, better studies of Stonewall Jackson.  This book has remained in print now for fifty years. That in itself should be a clear indicator that this is one of the all time classic studies of the civil war.n easily at Gettysburg if he had only been there. Every time we go to Gettysburg my wife points that out to me and thinks I am crazy because I don't necessarily agree with her.<br />I do have a problem with the fact that Davis does not have the courage to take on the Jackson legend so far as to point out his failures during the Seven Days Battles.  I realize that it would have been a hard sell in 1954 but Davis fails to do much more than point out that Jackson was unusually slow during this period and does not really even attempt to answer the questions raised by the General's behavior.  In fact, had Jackson not failed so badly during this campaign the Union army might have been almost destroyed.   After Jackson's failure below Richmond it is indeed almost a miracle that Lee would later have enough confidence in Jackson to give him command of a corps.  A lot more detail would have helped in this area.<br />Overall though, I found this to be an excellent biography.  There is to be found here what was new information in 1954.  This book in fact has been the foundation for many of the later and yes, better studies of Stonewall Jackson.  This book has remained in print now for fifty years. That in itself should be a clear indicator that this is one of the all time classic studies of the civil war.	2004-01-07
US	51167656	R3RGE0TPZA7YXM	0962827126	910175160	Civil War Ghosts of Virginia	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Haunted Virginia.	Mr. Taylor has written several ghost books but this is the first of his works that I have had the pleasure to read.  His writing style is quite good and this is an easy and enjoyable read.  There are some typos but that is the fault of the editor, not the author.  This is not a particularly chilling book but it is fun nonetheless.<br />Several of the ghost stories to be found in this book are very good.  They contain recent eyewitness accounts and are well documented.  On the other hand, Mr. Taylor falls into the trap that snares many authors of civil war ghost books.  In short, he gets caught up in the history of the place where his story takes place and almost forgets the ghost.  The story of the Stone House at Manassas is very good for example and the story of Jefferson Davis' son Joe is both eerie and touching.  On the other hand the story about Belle Boyd is fairly long and only the last paragraph mentions a ghost while the story of the Escape from the Grave contains no ghost at all.  I get the feeling from his introduction and a few of his chapters that the author might have had several good ghost stories and was badly in need of filler material.  Quite frankly, the book would have been much better if he had produced a shorter but more true to its title book.<br />Still, this is a book that would interest both those who like good ghost stories and also civil war buffs. The author even manages to sneak some Gettysburg ghost stories in and even though Gettysburg is not in Virginia I am always ready to read new ghostly encounters from that little Pennsylvania town.  This is a book you definitely want to read before taking a vacation in Old Virginia.	2004-01-01
US	51167656	R18MV1PJJXEAT5	0140028978	403931895	Glencoe The Story Of The Massacre	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Still proud to be a Campbell!	As a blood member of Clan Campbell I always make every effort to avoid the subject of Glencoe.  For some reason though I picked up this book and I am glad that I did.  John Prebble has done an excellent job of telling the whole story in this book and I have found that the legends leave a lot of the story out.  This is a book that would be of interest to all people with Scottish ancestry, especially to those of Clans Campbell and MacDonald.<br />It seems that King William had become the target of mocking tongues around Europe because he could not control the Highlanders.  He and his Secretary for Scotland, the Master of Stair were willing to do anything to solve the problem except spend money.  Stair, a Lowlander had the normal Lowlander's hatred for the Highlanders and it was he who was most responsible for the massacre.  But there is plenty of blame to go around.<br />The Campbells of course are not blameless for they actually carried out to plan, although they had no idea what they had been sent to Glencoe for until just hours before the deed was to be carried out.  There were also very thinly veiled threats against the commander of the expedition if he failed to carry out the orders delivered to him less than twelve hours before the massacre was to commence.  Campbell of Glenlyon, the commander of the troops involved, and most of his command had very good reason to despise the MacDonalds of Glencoe and were well chosen for the mission. After the massacre many Campbell troops carried home household items and animals that had been stolen from them by this set of MacDonalds.  There was even a kettle in the chief's kitchen that had been stolen from the Campbell commander himself.  Still warnings were apparently given to some of the Glencoe families and that along with a blinding snowstorm allowed most of the intended victims to escape.  The author makes a very good argument that if Lowland or English troops had been sent instead of Campbells, the slaughter would have been much greater.<br />MacDonald of Glencoe himself must bear part of the blame for he knew full well that he must take the oath of loyalty before his local sheriff but since that officer was a Campbell he showed up at Fort William only twenty-four hours before the deadline hoping to avoid appearing before the Campbell sheriff.  The commander of the fort as well as the Sheriff were sympathetic to MacDonald and asked that his late submission be accepted.  The Master of Stair again enters the picture, making sure the oath wasn't accepted and ordering the attack.  Even James II bears some responsibility as he delayed for an unreasonable time in freeing the clans from their oath to him, thereby putting his most loyal supporters in grave danger for no real reason.<br />Stair had assumed that there would be no repercussions from the raid since no one seemed to be all that fond of the MacDonalds of Glencoe.  They had after all stolen from most of their neighbors and Stair figured this was just the group to hold out as an example of what happened to those who opposed King William.  On one point Stair was correct for several other chiefs after hearing of Glencoe began to submit to the King.  Stair had not taken into account the political hay that could be made of such an event however and he would shortly pay the price.  The Jacobites were quick to try and use the massacre for their own purpose but they never got very far.  On the other hand, Stair's political enemies were much more successful and in the end the King blamed Stair and the troops involved for the whole mess.  It's good to be the King!<br />Well written, interesting account of an event that was and is far more notorious among Lowland and English politicians and American tourists than among the Clans themselves.  Not a proud moment for us Campbells but I enjoyed the book anyhow.e been much greater.  <br />MacDonald of Glencoe himself must bear part of the blame for he knew full well that he must take the oath of loyalty before his local sheriff but since that officer was a Campbell he showed up at Fort William only twenty-four hours before the deadline hoping to avoid appearing before the Campbell sheriff.  The commander of the fort as well as the Sheriff were sympathetic to MacDonald and asked that his late submission be accepted.  The Master of Stair again enters the picture, making sure the oath wasn't accepted and ordering the attack.  Even James II bears some responsibility as he delayed for an unreasonable time in freeing the clans from their oath to him, thereby putting his most loyal supporters in grave danger for no real reason.      <br />Stair had assumed that there would be no repercussions from the raid since no one seemed to be all that fond of the MacDonalds of Glencoe.  They had after all stolen from most of their neighbors and Stair figured this was just the group to hold out as an example of what happened to those who opposed King William.  On one point Stair was correct for several other chiefs after hearing of Glencoe began to submit to the King.  Stair had not taken into account the political hay that could be made of such an event however and he would shortly pay the price.  The Jacobites were quick to try and use the massacre for their own purpose but they never got very far.  On the other hand, Stair's political enemies were much more successful and in the end the King blamed Stair and the troops involved for the whole mess.  It's good to be the King!  <br />Well written, interesting account of an event that was and is far more notorious among Lowland and English politicians and American tourists than among the Clans themselves.  Not a proud moment for us Campbells but I enjoyed the book anyhow.	2003-12-29
US	51167656	R3JF6606WZPO1D	0375406573	595040228	The Three Musketeers (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Classic for a reason.	For years schoolteachers have tried to get their pupils interested in reading by telling them they have to read this book.  Of course this seldom works for there is a difference in reading for pleasure and reading because one is forced to do so.  I must admit however that if this tact is ever going to work, it should work with this book.  Dumas is the master of the adventure story and this just may be his best work.  Sex, violence, intrigue, and one purely evil character are to be found in the pages of this book. What more could the modern reader ask for?<br />The story does not center on the actual three musketeers in question as the book might imply. Instead the young d'Artagnan is the hero of this story as the reader follows him in his successful quest to become one of the King's Musketeers.  He soon becomes entangled in disputes with three musketeers who will become his best friends.  Aramis, Athos and Porthos are an eclectic and eccentric group whose mere presence in a scene immediately adds color.  D'Artagnan's adventures with his three friends have been immortalized on film many times, but do not be fooled.  The films bear little resemblance to the book in many instances and seldom do they do Dumas' work justice.  For one thing, the activities of our little group that would today be frowned upon seem never to make it to the big screen. For example, I have never seen a film version in which Porthos beats his lackey.<br />It is of course easy to review a classic like this and rave about how wonderful it is.  Others who are no doubt much more intelligent than myself have indicated that this is one of the all time great books, so it must be so.  In truth, I don't really care what others have said.  What I care about is whether I enjoyed the book or not and I assure you that I did enjoy this book very much.  Dumas' writing draws in his reader and it is often quite hard to put the story down in order to look after other important matters, like sleep.  The reader will find no deep symbolism here, just good fun and a lot of it.  Of course, just by accident the reader might just learn a little history but fear not for there will be no test.ill find no deep symbolism here, just good fun and a lot of it.  Of course, just by accident the reader might just learn a little history but fear not for there will be no test.	2003-12-20
US	51167656	RWND2VTY1JXFD	0875968341	274830846	The Backyard Bird Feeder's Bible: The A-to-Z Guide To Feeders, Seed Mixes, Projects And Treats (Rodale Organic Gardening Book)	Books	5	64	64	N	N	Worth every penny.	Back in the glory days of The Tonight Show, Johnny would read from a list or a book and then Ed would say, &quot;Everything you could ever want to know about....... is in that book.&quot;  Of course Ed would always get shot down for there was still more to know and while I am sure there are things about bird feeding that are not in this book, I doubt there is much that can not be found here.  Sally Roth has done an outstanding job of putting together what could indeed be considered the Bible of backyard bird feeders.<br />Everything is alphabetized so after you pick up the book to check on what kinds of birds eat earthworms (robins and other thrushes) you will also glance down and find that many birds like crushed eggshells for grit.  Pretty soon you are reading about falcons and feeder maintenance.  Basically, this is a hard book to put down and every time you pick it up you will learn something.  Roth tells her readers what kinds of birds like what food, what kind of plants birds like, how to alter your feeding in different seasons and how to handle problems that you may encounter.  There is a basic biography of each North American bird and the author tells us where each bird can be found and when.<br />For anyone who has decided to establish a bird feeding station, buy this book and read it before you buy the first feeder or grain of food.  Doing so will be well worth your time and monetary investment for not only will Roth give you an excellent idea of what kinds of feeders and foods you need to get started, she also provides tips on how to feed the birds without breaking the bank.  I have fed birds (and squirrels) for years and I have several books on the subject but this is hands down the best bird-feeding book in my library.  In other words, a novice needs this book and an old pro can learn a lot within its pages.  Sally Roth knows her stuff and luckily for all of us she writes in a clear, interesting, and easy to grasp style that makes learning what she knows a joy.<br />I am very glad I bought a copy of this book and I know my birds are too.  Not only has my enjoyment of this hobby increased but also the birds are eating better than ever.  I expect to see my finches building a little statue of Sally Roth any day now.knows a joy.  <br />I am very glad I bought a copy of this book and I know my birds are too.  Not only has my enjoyment of this hobby increased but also the birds are eating better than ever.  I expect to see my finches building a little statue of Sally Roth any day now.	2003-11-30
US	51167656	R1U5XI4UUTWX1A	0700611703	973302746	Jefferson Davis, Confederate President	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Dry and dull but somewhat informative.	Do not be confused by the title for this book is not a biography of Jefferson Davis.  It is a biography of the Confederate government with Davis at the helm.  There is some new information to be found in this book but not much and unfortunately most of the new information will be found in the form of a psychological profile of Davis.  Of course the reader will find a few tidbits of interest such as the price the government would pay in certain parts of Georgia for sweet potatoes.  Sadly, that is about the most interesting bit of new information one will find and one will have to persevere to get to that information for the writing is dry as dust.<br />In fact, most of the information in this book comes from William Davis and William Cooper who have written excellent studies on both Davis and his era.  To the authors' credit they don't try to hide this fact as again and again they openly repeat what Davis and Cooper have written.  The sad but true conclusion I have come to is that one would be far better off to buy books written by William Davis and William Cooper.  I have read both authors and their writing is much more clear and to the point than anything that will be found in this book.  The only parts of this book I really found interesting dealt with the operation of the Confederate congress.  On this book's strength on that subject alone I have to give this book three stars although two were a distinct possibility.  Quite frankly, I get the feeling that the authors' ego may have gotten the best of them as they wrote this book.  If they will stop trying to impress the boys at Harvard and Vanderbilt these two gentlemen could do much to further the study of the Confederacy.  When not quoting W. Davis or W. Cooper their research is first rate but they have got to loosen up and have fun with their work.  Then maybe their readers will be able to enjoy their subject as much as the authors have.	2003-11-24
US	51167656	RO0NPB6TF48MU	0500810370	170282342	Freemasonry: A Journey Through Ritual and Symbol (Art & Imagination)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Absolutely fantastic!	This is a very short book but it is correspondingly deep.  Out of ninety-five pages there are only thirty-two pages of text, the rest of the book is composed of pictures of various Masonic artifacts, paintings and prints.  This section of pictures is used to illustrate the first thirty-two-page section.<br />The theories about the teachings of Freemasonry that MacNulty expresses in this book are of a very deep, psychological and metaphysical nature.  He ties Masonry to &quot;the mysteries&quot;, a set of practices that sought to penetrate the mystery of human nature and give the practitioners a greater insight into themselves, all with an orientation toward the Deity.  This system can be traced throughout the history of western civilization and seems to have developed in some way or another into modern Freemasonry.  As the author explains himself and the meaning of various Masonic rituals and symbols in connection with these &quot;mysteries&quot; it all begins to make sense.  I have been an active Freemason for almost twenty years and I learned a great deal from this book.  Things I never really thought about were explained to me for the first time and after reading this book I feel like a much more knowledgeable member of the Craft.<br />I really don't know if any of this book will make sense to the non-Mason, unless one has a tremendous background in psychology.  Most Masons will have some problems following everything MacNulty is saying but they will pick up enough to say, &quot;I never thought about it that way.&quot;  I know it worked that way with me and even though I'm sure I missed some things, I learned a lot.  Definitely a book for what the author refers to as Masons of a philosophical bent.	2003-10-20
US	51167656	R1G9HH03G3WRO8	0914427679	315326841	Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant (The American Civil War)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Grant as commander.	Ulysses S. Grant like many other Civil War figures wrote a long and detailed memoir detailing his experiences in the war.  Unlike many of the others however, he did it not to toot his own horn but for the noble purpose of leaving an income for his family.  One of the most famous pictures of Grant is the one of him sitting on his porch, covered in blankets, writing.  He died just a week after he finished this book.  I wonder if the Grant family is still receiving royalties from this book after all of these years.<br /><br />In reading this book one has to take into account that by his own admission, Grant was not a scholar.  Nor was he a writer, but for a sick old soldier he does a wonderful job.  The writing is a little dry at times but that is mainly because he goes into so much detail about his campaigns.  His West Point eye shows not only in his strategy but also in his writing as he goes into great detail about the topography of the areas he is describing.  In fact, this is the most dull part of the book as he goes into so much detail that he will occasionally lose the reader entirely.  Grant is not one to cast blame for his problems but as part of his topographical discussions he almost always writes that this ground was much more favorable for defense, he of course being on the offensive.  It is also easy to avoid casting blame for failures when the writer has few failures, so while Grant is not guilty of this he has no reason to be.<br /><br />Grant does not describe his battles in detail for some reason.  His overall campaigns are covered in detail but the battles themselves get little attention.  The battles of others under his command are told in a far more interesting and complete manner than are the battles he was personally involved in.  His descriptions of Sherman's Atlanta campaign and the march to the sea are riveting and his descriptions of the final days of the war and Lee's surrender are enthralling. He also goes to great lengths to defend some of his comrades against charges that had been made against them while never taking on charges leveled at him.  His drinking is never mentioned.  He even takes time to defend Joe Johnston's Georgia campaign against Sherman.  His insights are incredible but this memoir could have offered the reader a little more of a glimpse into the author than it does.  Although, toward the end of the book one does start to see Grant's personality come out.<br /><br />There are numerous maps included in this book but they will be of little use to most readers.  I assume they are military maps, but they are so detailed that one can hardly make out the important points.  There is also an attempt to downplay what Robert E. Lee had accomplished before Grant arrived on the scene.  This could have come from humility on Grant's part, or it could have been jealousy, but whatever the cause it is unseemly.  Still, Grant knew how to defeat Lee and did so, which is more than any other Union general managed to do.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very insightful and well-written book.  Any serious student of the Civil War will want to have a copy of their own, not only to read but as a very important reference book.  He points out the mistakes and shortcomings of leaders on both sides as well as offers praise when he feels it is due.  It is amazing how kind he is to General Halleck considering how much trouble that man caused Grant early in the war.  He does seem to take delight however in detailing Sherman's dislike of Halleck. Not much of the real Grant comes across in this book but what does come through is that while he was a determined advisory; he was also a very kind hearted man.  A great man in fact, who was very much misunderstood, then and now.gainst charges that had been made against them while never taking on charges leveled at him.  His drinking is never mentioned.  He even takes time to defend Joe Johnston's Georgia campaign against Sherman.  His insights are incredible but this memoir could have offered the reader a little more of a glimpse into the author than it does.  Although, toward the end of the book one does start to see Grant's personality come out.    There are numerous maps included in this book but they will be of little use to most readers.  I assume they are military maps, but they are so detailed that one can hardly make out the important points.  There is also an attempt to downplay what Robert E. Lee had accomplished before Grant arrived on the scene.  This could have come from humility on Grant's part, or it could have been jealousy, but whatever the cause it is unseemly.  Still, Grant knew how to defeat Lee and did so, which is more than any other Union general managed to do.      Overall, this is a very insightful and well-written book.  Any serious student of the Civil War will want to have a copy of their own, not only to read but as a very important reference book.  He points out the mistakes and shortcomings of leaders on both sides as well as offers praise when he feels it is due.  It is amazing how kind he is to General Halleck considering how much trouble that man caused Grant early in the war.  He does seem to take delight however in detailing Sherman's dislike of Halleck. Not much of the real Grant comes across in this book but what does come through is that while he was a determined advisory; he was also a very kind hearted man.  A great man in fact, who was very much misunderstood, then and now.	2003-10-18
US	51167656	R3OYAMPIS0UYG7	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	5	125	134	N	N	Now these are high crimes.	Jim Hightower has issued a call to arms in this his latest book.  It is a call to action that should be answered by the vast majority of Americans for the current system is serving very few of us.  Hightower has only stated the obvious in regard to our current government structure but he does so in a very clear manner that may just get the attention of America.  Too often we just accept things as they are because speaking out is too much trouble.  If we aren't careful, we are going to lose the America we love to corporate greed and corruption.  Bush won't help us for he and his whole crew are company men all of the way and are doing everything they can to help the process along.  In Jim's words, &quot;Never have so few done so much for so few.&quot;  The things Hightower documents in this book are not only unbelievable but also downright scary.<br />The Democrats don't escape Hightower's wrath either.  Bill Clinton and the Democratic Leadership Council are just about as guilty as are the Republicans.  These people figure that if they don't fight the corporate greed that is ruining America they can expect large campaign contributions.  It has obviously worked since as Democrats we no longer seem to have the trouble raising money that we used to.  On the other hand, as a party we no longer have a soul.  The reason the Democratic Party exists is to fight for labor, the poor, and all of the other good hard working Americans who look to our party for protection from the, &quot;haves and the have mores.&quot;  Quite simply, I don't care how much money Microsoft puts in DNC coffers; our principles should not be for sale.<br />Just as the reader starts to get really depressed, Hightower hits us with the good news.  People all over the country are starting to stand up and be counted.  It's not a political thing, as both Democrats and Republicans have worked together for the common good of their community.  From little projects like planting flowers along a highway to taking on and defeating big corporations who want to bring part-time minimum wage jobs to the community while destroying local business.  Yes friends, the MacWal-Marting of America can be brought to a halt and Jim has the stories to prove it.  This book also has the dirt on some of America's corporate giants and some of the things these people do in the name of profit are just downright disgusting.  I'm not sure if I will ever go into a Wal-Mart again.  There are also chapters that expose the food industry, sweatshops, (hello again Wal-Mart) and the decline and fall of our right to privacy.<br />Ending on a high note, Hightower issues his call to action.  He has shown the reader how corporate greed and government avarice can be defeated and at the end he gives us the contact information we need to join the fight. This is an excellent book, laced with both humor and acid.  Every American should take a look at this book.  You may not agree with all Hightower has to say but he will most assuredly give you something to think about.g on and defeating big corporations who want to bring part-time minimum wage jobs to the community while destroying local business.  Yes friends, the MacWal-Marting of America can be brought to a halt and Jim has the stories to prove it.  This book also has the dirt on some of America's corporate giants and some of the things these people do in the name of profit are just downright disgusting.  I'm not sure if I will ever go into a Wal-Mart again.  There are also chapters that expose the food industry, sweatshops, (hello again Wal-Mart) and the decline and fall of our right to privacy.  <br />Ending on a high note, Hightower issues his call to action.  He has shown the reader how corporate greed and government avarice can be defeated and at the end he gives us the contact information we need to join the fight. This is an excellent book, laced with both humor and acid.  Every American should take a look at this book.  You may not agree with all Hightower has to say but he will most assuredly give you something to think about.	2003-10-08
US	51167656	R37MT4HOS4Z481	0895872137	679418004	Gray Phantoms of the Cape Fear : Running the Civil War Blockade	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Absolutely fantastic!	The American Civil War has provided countless authors with material for nearly one hundred fifty years.  Still, with the thousands of books and articles written about this war, some aspects of the struggle are often overlooked.  I have in fact seldom run across a book, which has for its entire subject the blockade of a single southern port.  I am sure other such works exist but I haven't seen them.  But no matter what other books are out there I doubt they can hold a candle to this work.  In fact, I have seldom ever been so enthralled with a book.  Dawson Carr has provided us with a concise, thrilling, well-researched, and very understandable look at the wartime activities along the Cape Fear coast.  The writing is absolutely wonderful and the story draws the reader in like a classic novel.  You will not want to put this book down until you have finished it.<br />Carr begins his narrative with the early efforts of North Carolina to secure its coast and proceeds from there. The stories of the building of the coastal fortifications are well told and informative but it is his stories of the blockade-runners and their pursuers that will grab the reader's attention.  One can almost feel the tension on the decks as the runners try to slip by the Union blockade, which grows in strength every month.  As the pilots strain to make out landmarks in the total darkness the runners used for cover one can almost imagine being there and trying to make out some form on land, hoping the first thing you see isn't an enemy ship.<br />All of Carr's stories aren't of the blockade-runners though, for he also covers events in Wilmington, Richmond, Liverpool, and many other locations that are involved in this story.  In one instance for example there is a tense confrontation between Governor Vance and Confederate authorities during which the Carolina Governor is basically placed under house arrest for a short time.  Of course all good things must come to an end and for the Confederacy their last port fell shortly after Braxton Bragg was sent to take charge of the area.  Infighting in Richmond, squabbles with state authorities, war profiteers, and three plus years of a union navel blockade couldn't close Wilmington, but it only took Bragg a short time to lose the Confederacy's last port.<br />If you are a civil war enthusiast, are interested in navel history, or just like a well-told story I highly recommend this book.  If a six star rating existed this book would easily deserve that rating.  Well done Dr. Carr, well done!last port fell shortly after Braxton Bragg was sent to take charge of the area.  Infighting in Richmond, squabbles with state authorities, war profiteers, and three plus years of a union navel blockade couldn't close Wilmington, but it only took Bragg a short time to lose the Confederacy's last port.  <br />If you are a civil war enthusiast, are interested in navel history, or just like a well-told story I highly recommend this book.  If a six star rating existed this book would easily deserve that rating.  Well done Dr. Carr, well done!	2003-10-06
US	51167656	R1QWBYX66B1RKN	1561642339	234157492	Best Ghost Tales of North Carolina	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Turn down the lights, sit back, and enjoy.	I read one of Terrance Zepke's earlier ghost books a week or so before I started this one.  I was fairly disappointed in the first book because there seemed to have been very little legwork put into it and most of the stories contained no modern witness accounts.  I felt that the author had much potential for this kind of book and that the book in question could have been so much better.  After having read this book I am happy to report that I was right.  This is a much better ghost book than her first effort and with just a little more work she can be as good as any of the other, &quot;ghostly&quot; writers out there.<br />There are unfortunately some stories that don't belong here but not many.  &quot;The Hermit of Fort Fisher&quot; is one of the stories that never really involves a ghost at all and even though it is interesting it is out of place.  On the other hand, the stories about Aycock Auditorium, the Grove Park Inn, and Thalian Hall are wonderful.  I especially appreciated that she took the time to give her readers information about the best places available to view the Brown Mountain lights.  The chapter about how to conduct a ghost hunt was also enjoyable and the list of resources was excellent.<br />Overall, this is a very good book and I hope Ms. Zepke will continue to write these hauntingly chilling books.  As I travel to the Carolinas more and more these days, her books help give me ideas of things to look for, or look out for as I travel.	2003-10-05
US	51167656	R1GR1XC6T0Q3H3	081312266X	915208449	Brigadier General John D. Imboden: Confederate Commander in the Shenandoah	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A sound, solid and somewhat dry biography.	While many Confederate leaders, especially those from Virginia have been the subjects of numerous biographies; Brigadier General John Imboden is an exception.  For that matter the war in western Virginia gets very little attention, unless of course Stonewall Jackson was there.  Hopefully, this book will help to change all that.  Spencer Tucker has written a good account of General Imboden's military career that actually does more to enlighten the reader as to the situation in western Virginia during the war than it does anything else.  One actually gets more of a feel for Jubal Early than for Imboden even though Early is only a player in this story for a short while. Make no mistake, this is a military biography and Imboden the man will not be found here.  For example, the deaths of four of Imboden's five wives are usually covered in no more than two or three sentences each, and his run for Lieutenant Governor during the war doesn't even take up a whole paragraph.<br />Tucker does do a good job of tracing Imboden's military exploits and calls into question the General's recollections of the war when the evidence is against him.  In other words, Tucker is very frank in his observations and Imboden does not come over as a great fighter or leader.  The battles are fairly well explained but a few more maps would have been nice.  Tucker also seems to have done his research but I can't help but feeling like there is much more to Imboden than is portrayed in this book.  It could be that personal correspondence from the General no longer exists but whatever the reason Tucker never seems to get beneath the surface of his subject.  The writing style is also fairly dry and the book is a little tedious in places.<br />Still, Tucker does manage to help the reader see into the times of General Imboden, if not his personality, and the reader will see the sacrifices of both Imboden's men and the citizens of western Virginia during the war. Strangely, while Tucker never captures Imboden, he does do a good job of describing the overall situation in western Virginia and the often-overlooked strategic importance of the area.  Basically, this is not a great book but it has a place in helping tell the whole story of the war. A story that involves many facets, many areas of fighting, and many men and women who never seem to make the history books.boden, he does do a good job of describing the overall situation in western Virginia and the often-overlooked strategic importance of the area.  Basically, this is not a great book but it has a place in helping tell the whole story of the war. A story that involves many facets, many areas of fighting, and many men and women who never seem to make the history books.	2003-10-04
US	51167656	R32CBQDRM0L7VB	1561641758	954452682	Ghosts of the Carolina Coasts	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not bad, but it could have been so much better.	It is far easier I suppose to write a book that is mostly about the legends of a particular area than to do the exhaustive work involved in trying to talk to witnesses.  The best ghost books are quite frankly the ones where the author has spent hours and hours talking to people who have claimed to have had a ghostly encounter.  These are the stories that send a chill up your spine because if it happened to these people it could happen to you.  In this book there are a few of these stories, but not many.  Most are legends that contain phrases like, &quot;since that time people have reported,&quot; or, &quot;shortly after that people started to.&quot;  In short, most of the stories in this book are not overly convincing.  There are also numerous historical errors to be found in this book but then most people who buy this book are looking for ghosts, not history.<br />On the other hand, Ms. Zepke has a very nice writing style and the book is an easy read.  With just a little more legwork she could turn out some really excellent ghost books.  Her chapter about Alice Flagg is a superbly told story and includes stories from current day ghost hunters.  Still, while the back cover warns the reader to, &quot;Prepare to Be Scared!&quot; there is very little here to scare anyone.  There are even a few chapters that mention no ghost at all.	2003-09-29
US	51167656	R3A3C16WXWV4BO	0895870320	904036305	Blackbeard the Pirate: A Reappraisal of His Life and Times	Books	3	25	27	N	N	Blackbeard, pirate and legend.	Over the years Edward Teach, more commonly known as Blackbeard, has become more legend than man.  A process that I think would have pleased Teach very much for he was as much a showman as a pirate.  That is a part of his character that is richly brought out in this book.  Unfortunately, there is really little for Mr. Lee to work with since real hard evidence of Teach's activities is scarce.  Pirates after all were criminals and weren't exactly known for keeping records of their thefts.<br />Lee I suppose did the best he could with the evidence he had to work with but this already short book would have been much better if it had been even shorter.  The parts of the book that deal with Teach are excellent but there is far too much dead weight in this book.  For example, some of the politics of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina have to be dealt with to understand why the Governor of Virginia invaded North Carolina to capture or kill Blackbeard.  The author however, included much more of the era's politics than was necessary.  This led to parts of the book being almost mind numbingly dull and the parts of the book dealing with the genealogy of some of the colonial first families were as tedious to read as almost anything I have seen.  Being a lawyer, the author has also sprinkled his text with Latin legal terms with no explanation of their meaning.  If I were to ever learn Latin that would not bother me I suppose but as I speak no Latin this practice annoys me no end.<br />Overall, the reader will get a fairly good feeling for Blackbeard and his times.  Be warned however, parts of this book will bore you to tears.  Instead of the politics and genealogy, a good chapter on the treasure hunters who have sought Blackbeard's probably non-existent buried loot would have been nice.	2003-09-28
US	51167656	RRRGKYSP744F9	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	13	16	N	N	How many Lies?	How many lies could the right wing tell if the right wing could tell lies?  Well, if Franken has done his homework, and it appears that he has, then the right wing could tell a whole lot of lies and Franken has proof.  Sometimes of course they don't tell outright lies, they just use the part of the truth that suits them and forget the rest.  Sometimes they even tell the truth, then lie about that.  Now don't get me wrong, there are a lot of very honest and well-meaning people on the political right.  Unfortunately many of their leaders are neither well meaning nor honest.  Want some examples?  Al has plenty.<br />One of his favorite targets is Bill O'Reilly who Franken has caught just making up facts and figures as he goes along.  Of course if one is on O'Reilly's show and one happens to know the correct figures one can't correct Mr. Factor because he will start yelling at you to shut up and will turn your microphone off.  I have seen him do that myself so I know Franken is not making it up.  O'Reilly is of course not the only mouthpiece of the far right that Franken has caught in bald face lies.  He also catches Ann Coulter, Bernie Goldberg, Newt Gingrich, Dick Cheney, and of course good old George W., among others.<br />This book is a very easy read but you have to pay attention for some of Franken's humor is very subtle.  The facts are here, these guys and gals have lied and for that matter have lied early and often.  The chapter on Barbara Bush especially intrigued me; I would never have guessed it.  I also love Operation Chickenhawk, Operation Ignore, and the chapter entitled, \\"This was not a memorial to Paul Wellstone\\" was particularly informing.  Of course, those of you on the right are not going to like this book at all.  In fact, you probably won't read it but I figure you will trash this review.  Still, this is a funny and informative book that deserves high marks.  It would have been an easy five stars but Al goes after the Confederacy in a rather harsh manner and in that one instance he has no statistics to back him up.  Still, anybody who can actually come up with a story in which Rush Limbaugh is involved in combat instead of trying to send other people into combat deserves five stars, even if he did trash my ancestors.anner and in that one instance he has no statistics to back him up.  Still, anybody who can actually come up with a story in which Rush Limbaugh is involved in combat instead of trying to send other people into combat deserves five stars, even if he did trash my ancestors.	2003-09-25
US	51167656	R3MYSUT40LOD68	096359673X	738408116	Haunted Wilmington and the Cape Fear Coast	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ghoulies and ghosties of North Carolina.	The south has always been known for its hauntings, as has the seacoast.  Wilmington, North Carolina and Cape Fear are a combination of the two and therefore ghosts should abound in the area.  Brooks Newton Preik has taken upon herself the task of documenting some of these apparitions from the old North State.<br />Among the ghosts to be found in this book are the familiar Maco head light and the spirit of Theodosia Burr along with many lesser-known haunts.  Many of the stories to be found are backed up by the testimony of contemporary witnesses, which adds a great deal to the believability of the story.  Unfortunately, there are also some stories that are mere legend and the last chapter about the Oakdale Cemetery, while interesting, is just a short history of the cemetery and contains no ghosts at all.<br />Overall though, this is a well-written and enjoyable book.  It would especially help set the mood of the Cape Fear area for anyone planning a visit.  As one might expect of a place with this much history, this book will tell you not only of the ghosts themselves but also much of how the ghosts may have come to be. Along the way the reader will be lead down a colorful history that includes pirates, redcoats, ship wrecks, Confederate soldiers, and even a couple of Scottish highlanders.<br />This is not the most detailed, informative, or even scary ghost book on the market.  Even so, it is an entertaining book and Preik has a very pleasant writing style.  I enjoyed it very much.	2003-09-23
US	51167656	R1C0EQQUGOUNLG	0140276165	50231744	The Unfinished Presidency: Jimmy Carter's Journey Beyond the White House	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Never count a good man out.	Regardless of how one feels about Jimmy Carter the fact is that he has become one of the most admired men in the United States and one of the most beloved Americans in the world.  He left office after being voted out in a landslide and with some of the worst poll numbers in history.  Now, his poll numbers are very high and any time a conservation turns to Carter someone will almost certainly say that they think Carter is the best ex-President we have ever had or the most moral man to have been in the White House in years and years.  This turn around occurred in less than twenty years, and that the turn around occurred is a fact not open to question.  The real question is; how and why did it happen?<br />That's the question Douglas Brinkley attempts to answer with this book.  Brinkley basically starts with Carter's 1980 defeat and follows Carter's career for the next twenty years.  On this journey the reader will meet Jimmy Carter the Baptist missionary, the Habitat carpenter, the lay physician out to heal the world, and the ex-President who refuses to profit from his former office but is at the same time a tireless fund raiser for his Carter Center.  We also get to see the tireless diplomat who is willing to put himself in great personal danger to try and secure a peaceful resolution to conflicts around the world.  This is truly a man who takes to heart his faith and the teachings of Jesus Christ.  On the other hand we also see a somewhat darker side of the former peanut farmer.  We see an ego as big as all outdoors, a tendency to grandstand, a self-righteous zealot, and a serious stubborn streak.  The reader will also find a great clue in Carter's post presidency to the failure of his administration.  The aforementioned faults of course did not help his presidential efforts but it may well have been his inability to prioritize that lead to his political downfall.  It seems that Carter will give small details and events the same attention he gives to massive undertakings without taking into account the real importance of the event.  One can easily see how a President with this trait would very quickly become bogged down and accomplish very little.<br />Brinkley does an excellent job of telling this remarkable story.  He had access to both President and Mrs. Carter along with their papers and also did many interviews with their fellow workers and friends.  Interestingly, many of the people who had worked with Carter on some of his projects critiqued some of the draft chapters and pointed out mistakes.  Make no mistake, most of these people are Carter intimates but steadfast Republican James Baker is also among those who offered both insights and critiques.  The writing style that is found in this book is generally easy to read although the narrative does seem to drag in places.  The biggest fault I could find in this book is the printing.  I read the paperback version and the printing is tiny.  I suppose that in discussing Jimmy Carter, Biblical type print is understandable but it still hurts the eyes.  Still, this book is well worth the effort so break out the bifocals and enjoy.takings without taking into account the real importance of the event.  One can easily see how a President with this trait would very quickly become bogged down and accomplish very little.<br />Brinkley does an excellent job of telling this remarkable story.  He had access to both President and Mrs. Carter along with their papers and also did many interviews with their fellow workers and friends.  Interestingly, many of the people who had worked with Carter on some of his projects critiqued some of the draft chapters and pointed out mistakes.  Make no mistake, most of these people are Carter intimates but steadfast Republican James Baker is also among those who offered both insights and critiques.  The writing style that is found in this book is generally easy to read although the narrative does seem to drag in places.  The biggest fault I could find in this book is the printing.  I read the paperback version and the printing is tiny.  I suppose that in discussing Jimmy Carter, Biblical type print is understandable but it still hurts the eyes.  Still, this book is well worth the effort so break out the bifocals and enjoy.	2003-09-23
US	51167656	R2HAY08KO0DHL7	0751513938	703289128	Scottish Ghost Stories	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Things that go bump in the Scottish night.	As anyone who has ever been to Scotland knows, there is an abundance of supernatural tales in this ancient land.  James Robertson has put together a fine book that includes many of these stories.  Some are ancient, some are recent.  Much to his credit he does not rehash some of the more worn Scottish ghost stories, but instead includes many stories that the reader will not likely find in any other books still in print.  His writing style is for the most part pleasing, but does drag a little at times.  I also doubt that this book will send a chill up your spine or cause you to have any trouble sleeping.  Some really good ghost books do both of these things but this one will do neither.  Part of the problem is that Robertson approaches this book as a skeptic.  I have found that the really good ghost book writers have full faith that what they are writing about is absolute fact.  Another problem is that so many of the stories are indeed old legends with no recent eyewitness accounts to add authenticity to the story.  Those kinds of accounts always add a great deal to this type of book.<br />On the other hand, I did enjoy most of this book.  Of particular importance to me is that the author took the time to give the background information pertaining to the haunt while not getting so carried away by the history of the haunt that he forgets the haunt itself.  I particularly found the chapters dealing with poltergeists and Glamis Castle to be interesting.  Most interesting of all however were chapters fifteen and sixteen, which deal with modern haunts and include eyewitness testimony.  Both are excellent chapters and make the whole book worthwhile.<br />This is not the kind of book that makes a wonderful read on a chilly autumn evening.  It simply is not frightening.  If however, you are planning a trip to Scotland this would be a good book to read on the flight over.  Not only will it give you a good background for many of Scotland's old legends it will also help set the mood for your visit to that enchanted land of Loch monsters, devil dogs, and ghostly pipers.  And if you visit Glamis, watch out for Lord Beardie.e mood for your visit to that enchanted land of Loch monsters, devil dogs, and ghostly pipers.  And if you visit Glamis, watch out for Lord Beardie.	2003-09-08
US	51167656	R22BLA4H2UN6B6	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Don't close this case just yet.	If there is one theory about the identity of Jack the Ripper there are probably a hundred. Thanks to Patricia Cornwell there are now a hundred and one.  Unfortunately, the case does not appear to me to be quite as closed, as the title would suggest.  Cornwell simply makes too many assumptions and there is no real proof of her theory.  Much too often there are lines such as there is no proof that her \\"killer\\" was in London at the time of a murder, but there is no proof that he wasn't.<br />The \\"killer\\" the author names is the artist Walter Sickert.  She offers as her first piece of evidence that Sickert was born with a genital defect and that the three operations to fix the problem may have left him deformed and unable to have sex. That of course led him to hate women.  Freud would have been proud of Cornwell.  She alleges that it is possible that he never consummated his marriages. However, since he was married three times it seems impossible that such a thing would not have come out.  He was also accused of adultery in his divorce from his first wife and was said to have fathered a child by a mistress in France.  Cornwell's theory is possible, but it seems a little farfetched.<br />Cornwell's evidence concerning some of the Ripper letters is far more convincing.  The same DNA shows up on stamps from one of Sickert's as is found on two Ripper letters.  The Ripper letters being notes someone sent to the authorities and the press claiming to be the Ripper.  She does a good job of showing that Sickert was probably the author of some of these letters.  However, the police at the time didn't consider these letters to be genuine and they can't have been as dense as the author would have us believe.  Given Sickert's personality, which Cornwell deals with extensively, it seems obvious that Sickert would have thought it great fun to make up these letters so he could be a part of the story.  As for the details he knew he seems to have been fascinated by these murders and could likely have found out most all of his information from the police.<br />Finally, Cornwell argues that Sickert's art gives him away.  It is true that some of his art is disturbing but given his fixation on the Ripper case it is not at all unreasonable to expect to find some similarities to the Whitechapel murder scenes in his art.  He was also fixated on World War I and hung around hospitals drawing the dead and dying though I doubt he was responsible for the war.  The author also makes much of a painting Sickert did of his own bedroom which he called, \\"Jack the Ripper's Bedroom\\". The problem is that Sickert probably rented the room in the first place because the landlady was convinced that Jack the Ripper had once lived there.<br />Cornwell may have indeed named the real killer, but I doubt it.  There are just too many unanswered questions.  She has however, added another name to the list of possible suspects and has done an enormous amount of research.  Research which may end up helping name the real killer, if he is indeed ever found out.  One will most assuredly find information here that will not be found in other books on the subject. Being a novelist, Cornwell has also turned out a very readable book and I enjoyed it very much.  I just don't think she has solved the crime.ould likely have found out most all of his information from the police.<br />Finally, Cornwell argues that Sickert's art gives him away.  It is true that some of his art is disturbing but given his fixation on the Ripper case it is not at all unreasonable to expect to find some similarities to the Whitechapel murder scenes in his art.  He was also fixated on World War I and hung around hospitals drawing the dead and dying though I doubt he was responsible for the war.  The author also makes much of a painting Sickert did of his own bedroom which he called, \\"Jack the Ripper's Bedroom\\". The problem is that Sickert probably rented the room in the first place because the landlady was convinced that Jack the Ripper had once lived there.<br />Cornwell may have indeed named the real killer, but I doubt it.  There are just too many unanswered questions.  She has however, added another name to the list of possible suspects and has done an enormous amount of research.  Research which may end up helping name the real killer, if he is indeed ever found out.  One will most assuredly find information here that will not be found in other books on the subject. Being a novelist, Cornwell has also turned out a very readable book and I enjoyed it very much.  I just don't think she has solved the crime.	2003-09-05
US	51167656	R3T4JXT3JP83NQ	0094761701	922915935	The Road to Culloden Moor - Bonnie Prince Charlie and the '45 Rebellion	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The pipes are calling.	Bonnie Prince Charlie has long been a staple of Scottish legend, almost as much myth as reality.  Diana Preston has given us in this book a true look at not only the man but also the rebellion he led.  And it is not always an appealing picture that the author paints of the Young Pretender.<br />Preston leads her readers along Charles' life laying a solid foundation for his actions in 1745.  The reader is taken with the Prince to France where he expects to get aid from the French for his cause.  As usual however, the French only use the Scots for their own purpose of distracting England and Charles finds only lip service there.  Finally he sails for Scotland on his own, still expecting a French army to come to his aid. Indeed, he expects this right up until Culloden.<br />The author does a fine job of relating the emotion of the times as he raises many of the Highland clans to his cause.  She also clearly details the problems Charles faces in trying to command his clan army.  For example, being posted on the right flank is an honor to the clans and at Culloden, when the MacDonalds end up on the left, they stand under heavy fire sulking, and refuse to attack.  Still, Charles manages to almost enter London and if his clan chiefs hadn't decided that without the French an attack on London was doomed, the Stuarts might well have been restored.<br />Until the battle at Culloden, the reader will feel great sympathy for the young Prince, but his actions immediately following the battle are rather shameful.  Dejected, he refuses the call to rejoin the part of his army that remains and leaves the poor Highlanders to the not so tender mercies of the Butcher Cumberland. His flight from the British and their Highland allies is told in a spirited way that once again brings forth sympathy for Charles.  It is during this period that Flora MacDonald rises to prominence.<br />Finally, Preston deals with Charles remaining years, which are not nearly so appealing as his years as the Young Pretender.  She also details the remaining years of many of his closest followers, several of whom are executed.  This is a well written and intriguing account of the '45 and will be enjoyed by almost anyone with Scottish roots.  My only quibble is a lack of notes to back up the author's statements, but that seems to fade as a concern as one is drawn into this truly remarkable story.e Young Pretender.  She also details the remaining years of many of his closest followers, several of whom are executed.  This is a well written and intriguing account of the '45 and will be enjoyed by almost anyone with Scottish roots.  My only quibble is a lack of notes to back up the author's statements, but that seems to fade as a concern as one is drawn into this truly remarkable story.	2003-08-27
US	51167656	R1VDWH5O5HBWAP	1559706015	879579713	The Freemasons: A History of the World's Most Powerful Secret Society	Books	3	133	140	N	N	No rituals, just the Craft's history.	I would use the term fair and balanced to describe this book but I am afraid that Fox News would take me to court.  So, I will just have to say that this book is a very objective look at both the Freemasons and their critics. Where the Freemasons have made a claim that is not supported by fact or is just plain wrong, the author points out the mistake.  On the other hand, he also points out the weakness of most Anti-Masonic arguments, calling some of them ridicules. When the Anti's have a fair point though, it is clearly acknowledged.<br /><br />Jasper Ridley traces Freemasonry from where he thinks it began, to the present day and also looks at Masonry in most countries of the world.  He points out that Masonic Lodges in some countries have been the centers for radical revolutionary movements. Masons often deny this but Masonic opposition to reactionary and oppressive monarchs, dictators, and popes has helped inspire many revolutionary leaders from Simon Bolivar to Giuseppe Garibaldi to George Washington.  This is for the most part the reason that the Catholic Church has historically been opposed to Freemasonry.  However, Ridley correctly points out that while many revolutionary leaders were Freemasons so to were many Royals.  For example, Washington fought to free the American colonies from George III whose brother was the Grand Master of English Masons.  In fact, as Ridley points out, during conflicts Freemasons were often the leaders of both sides.  It was indeed the Freemason Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna who ordered the slaughter of the defenders of the Alamo, Freemasons included.  The head of the Texas army, Sam Houston was also a Mason.  Jasper's argument here is that the Masonic oaths mean little at such times.<br /><br />To make a long story short, Ridley gives praise where it is due and does the same with criticism.  The Masons come in for harsh treatment over the Morgan affair in New York, as do the Anti-Masons with their contention that Masons had something to do with the Jack the Ripper murders.  If you are a Freemason or if you are Anti-Masonic some of your sacred cows will likely be gored by this book.  If you are neither of the above you will still enjoy this well written book as it touches on most major events in modern western history.<br /><br />The only fault I can find is that some of Ridley's history is in error.  For example, John Quincy Adams was not the Whig Presidential nominee in 1824.  Nor were W.H. Crawford and Henry Clay Independent candidates.  Andrew Jackson was also not the Democratic nominee.  There was no Whig party in 1824 and all four candidates were Democrats since that was basically the only party in existence.  Its picky I know, but if he gets some of these historical facts wrong; what else might he be wrong about?to do with the Jack the Ripper murders.  If you are a Freemason or if you are Anti-Masonic some of your sacred cows will likely be gored by this book.  If you are neither of the above you will still enjoy this well written book as it touches on most major events in modern western history.<br /><br />The only fault I can find is that some of Ridley's history is in error.  For example, John Quincy Adams was not the Whig Presidential nominee in 1824.  Nor were W.H. Crawford and Henry Clay Independent candidates.  Andrew Jackson was also not the Democratic nominee.  There was no Whig party in 1824 and all four candidates were Democrats since that was basically the only party in existence.  Its picky I know, but if he gets some of these historical facts wrong; what else might he be wrong about?	2003-08-22
US	51167656	R2B412CTF2G0Z0	0385503342	315116273	The Life of John Wesley: A Brand from the Burning	Books	4	13	22	N	N	Pope John?	The dust jacket of this book says that John Wesley is not a very easy man to like and after reading this book I tend to agree.  He is also not a very easy man to understand.  Fortunately, Roy Hattersley has written a book that helps the reader to at least partially understand Wesley, but he is still hard to like.<br /><br />The reader will be taken into Wesley's childhood, which is where the title of the book comes from since as a child he was plucked from his burning home at the very last minute.  John Wesley's attachment to the Church of England seems to have come from his father, also an Anglican priest.  Samuel Wesley was so attached to the state church and the monarch who sat at its head that he once left his wife because as a Jacobite she refused to say amen after a prayer in which he asked God's blessing on King William.  Fortunately for all of those Methodists out there, John Wesley was far more influenced by his mother Susanna than by his father.<br /><br />As Wesley becomes involved in the Holy Club that would become the foundation for Methodism we begin to see his overbearing personality in action.  This club, derisively called Methodists was in existence before Wesley became a member but when he got there, he took the reigns and slowly builds what would become a major Protestant denomination.  This overbearing personality is part of what makes Wesley so hard to like, but there is little doubt that the Methodist church would never have existed if he had been more docile.  Wesley also tended to change his theological views over the years, sometimes quite abruptly.  He would usually claim to have had a revelation from God when this happened and would sometimes even deny that he had made a change.  When challenged he became very defensive and some of his tactics were less than noble. He was so autocratic that his enemies referred to him as Pope John.  Still, one has to wonder if there would ever have been a Methodist Church if he had acted differently.<br /><br />On the other hand, John Wesley seems to be sincerely interested in the plight of the poor, a segment of English society, which was sparsely served by the Established Church.  His whole ministry in fact seems to have revolved around serving those who were overlooked by the Anglican Church.  At the same time he lost many friends within the Methodist movement because of his fight to remove all vestiges of Calvinism from his movement.  Without that fight, the Methodist Church could not be what it is today.<br /><br />By nature this book is filled with sometimes deep theological issues which are sometimes hard for the lay person to follow.  Hattersley has done a good job of trying to make the issues understandable but I must admit that the book is sometimes a little dry.  Hattersley also uses several Latin phrases without a translation.  This habit among some authors is a pet peeve of mine.  My father graduated from high school in 1932 and at that time he was required to learn Latin.  For most of us however, Latin was not even a real option in high school or college so we don't understand it and can't read it. I really wish this practice would cease; but it won't.<br /><br />Overall, a very good, well-written, and informative book.  Anyone with an interest in the Great Awakening or the Christian religion will find this book of much use.  Methodists will find out many things about their founder and will be better able to understand their ritual and dogma after reading Hattersley's book.  Reading this book will also allow the average Methodist to better connect with their ministers who seldom miss a chance to talk about John Wesley.<br />On the other hand, John Wesley seems to be sincerely interested in the plight of the poor, a segment of English society, which was sparsely served by the Established Church.  His whole ministry in fact seems to have revolved around serving those who were overlooked by the Anglican Church.  At the same time he lost many friends within the Methodist movement because of his fight to remove all vestiges of Calvinism from his movement.  Without that fight, the Methodist Church could not be what it is today.<br /><br />By nature this book is filled with sometimes deep theological issues which are sometimes hard for the lay person to follow.  Hattersley has done a good job of trying to make the issues understandable but I must admit that the book is sometimes a little dry.  Hattersley also uses several Latin phrases without a translation.  This habit among some authors is a pet peeve of mine.  My father graduated from high school in 1932 and at that time he was required to learn Latin.  For most of us however, Latin was not even a real option in high school or college so we don't understand it and can't read it. I really wish this practice would cease; but it won't.<br /><br />Overall, a very good, well-written, and informative book.  Anyone with an interest in the Great Awakening or the Christian religion will find this book of much use.  Methodists will find out many things about their founder and will be better able to understand their ritual and dogma after reading Hattersley's book.  Reading this book will also allow the average Methodist to better connect with their ministers who seldom miss a chance to talk about John Wesley.	2003-08-19
US	51167656	R2S0GNYZTWC2UJ	1572330937	27916551	Mountain Rebels: East Tennessee Confederates 1860-1870	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Confederates in the mountains.	I grew up hearing about the exploits of my family during the civil war and have gone to battlefields and stood in the very spots where my ancestors fought.  Because of that it has always just burned me up when I hear someone say that East Tennessee's population all supported the Union during the war.  Unfortunately, history is often over simplified that way and is often taught that way in our schools.  Fortunately, there are people like Todd Groce to debunk these silly myths.<br />In this fine book, Groce points out that there were numerous Confederates in East Tennessee and that they suffered more for their cause than did most other southerners.  From the first rumblings of secession to the redemption of Tennessee in 1870, Groce introduces his readers to numerous men and women from this region who gave their all for southern independence.  Numerous maps, pictures, and tables help to drive the author's points home in a very clear manner.  He takes particular care to clarify his theory that merchants and professional people were the leading Confederates in the region and carefully explains why he thinks this class had such strong southern sympathy.  He also points out that slave owners were almost equally divided in their sympathy proving that at least in East Tennessee slavery played little part in the choice of sides.  Also in this book you will find out about the unfair treatment of East Tennessee Confederates by Jefferson Davis and his government and that among the last to remain with President Davis on his flight into Georgia were General Vaughn's East Tennessee troops.  Groce also goes too great lengths to expose the vile treatment of the regions defeated Confederates after the war.<br />The only element lacking from this book was any mention of Longstreet's winter in East Tennessee.  The reaction of the citizenry when Burnside occupied Knoxville is well covered and is telling.  However, the same might be said for the local reaction to Longstreet if it were covered.<br />Still, this is an excellent volume and helps plug a gapping hole that has long existed in Civil War scholarship.  A strong work about an interesting subject.overed.<br />Still, this is an excellent volume and helps plug a gapping hole that has long existed in Civil War scholarship.  A strong work about an interesting subject.	2003-08-17
US	51167656	R80TV3IWVGYWR	1581822936	352906570	Dixie Spirits: True Tales of the Strange and Supernatural in the South	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Boo, ya'll.	Dixie Spirits is a collection of ghost stories from the American south.  Some of the stories in this book are hauntings that are very familiar to anyone who likes to read this type of books.  The gray man, the Brown Mountain lights, and the Myrtles plantation are found within the pages of this book and just about any book about southern ghosts that one chooses to read.  However, there are also some hauntings to be found in this book that I was not familiar with.  For example the Sloss Furnaces, the Athens haunted pillar, and the Hornet ghost light.  Also, the ghosts of some of the Lee homes in Virginia were completely new to me.  I suppose that anyone writing a book of this sort would have to assume that his or her readers hadn't read about the Myrtles and would feel as if they had to include such a famous haunt.  I guess that those of us who frequent these books will just have to learn to live with that fact.<br />The only other problems I found in this book were an over abundance of Indian legends and a last second rush of UFO stories.  Coleman tries to explain his use of the UFO tales but I bought a ghost book, not a UFO book and had no real desire to find UFO stories haunting this book's pages.  There are also numerous typos, which are somewhat irritating.<br />On the other hand, the writing style of the author is very pleasing and the stories in this book seem to just fly by.  I assume that he has done a fair amount of research but there is no bibliography so I can't be sure. Overall, this is a well-written and interesting book.  A little off target in places but still rather good and well worth the price.  Read it on a cool October evening but don't get too lost in its pages or the mothman might get you.	2003-08-05
US	51167656	R67QZ3U05F9P1	0385496850	228406468	The Circus Fire: A True Story of an American Tragedy	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A keeper!	I am sure that any decent writer who was willing to dig through the archives and old newspaper stories could have written a good book about the Hartford circus fire.  For Stewart O'Nan however, that was not enough.  He not only did the research that any author would do when writing about a historical event; he tracked down the survivors.  That is what makes this book so good.  The stories told by the survivors make the whole story much more personal and much more tragic.  On top of all this, O'Nan's writing style is superb.  As a novelist who usually deals in fiction he writes in a very engrossing manner that keeps the reader's interest from cover to cover.<br />The chapters are divided by dates and O'Nan takes each of the several families he follows in detail from their preparations for the circus to the very end.  Whether that end is death or recovery we get the whole story.  In this way the reader is able to connect in a personal way with the victims.  If they escaped we find out how they got out.  If they required hospitalization we get the story of their recovery.  If they are killed we are taken through the identification process and some of the funerals.  O'Nan even follows two of the survivors into their careers as firemen.  The reader is also treated to the inner politics of the Ringling family and the power struggle after the fire.  Along the way we meet circus people who were indeed negligent, politicians who struggled to cover their own negligence, nurses, doctors, and lots of policemen.  We also meet many heroes; many of them policemen and firemen just like on 9/11.  O'Nan spares no detail but he never gets boring.  The reader will also get a good feel for 1944.  The circus was short on workers because of the war.  Hartford's residents were prospering because of the war industries.  Gas and food ration stamps were so precious that the police were amazed that so many people turned in stamp books found on the midway or still in the smoldering big top.  This book is just simply fascinating all the way around.<br />Finally, O'Nan takes the reader up to 1999, Fifty-five years after the fire. That fifty-five years brings new investigations, new theories, new suspects, and the end of Ringling Brothers' days as a tent show.  In 1994 there is a touching fifty-year reunion of the survivors. To the very end, O'Nan handles the subject with dignity and grace.  The subject matter is sorrowful and you will be moved close to tears, but I highly recommend this book.This book is just simply fascinating all the way around.<br />Finally, O'Nan takes the reader up to 1999, Fifty-five years after the fire. That fifty-five years brings new investigations, new theories, new suspects, and the end of Ringling Brothers' days as a tent show.  In 1994 there is a touching fifty-year reunion of the survivors. To the very end, O'Nan handles the subject with dignity and grace.  The subject matter is sorrowful and you will be moved close to tears, but I highly recommend this book.	2003-08-02
US	51167656	RPFMFC2YL51ZL	1878177125	252973164	Ghostly Tales and Legends Along the Grand Strand of South Carolina	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not much boo for buck here.	Blanche W. Floyd obviously loves the Grand Strand and she is most certainly well versed in its folklore.  She also has a pleasing writing style and if you are looking for a book of the legends that have built up in that area of South Carolina this will definitely be a book you will want to read.<br />On the other hand, the title makes this book appear to be a collection of ghost stories and if that is what you are looking for, stay away.  There are only three stories that really deal with purported hauntings out of a total of twenty-nine.  Of those three, two of them are about Alice of the Hermitage and the Gray Man, well-worn stories that are in almost every book dealing with southern ghosts.  Most of her stories brush off the whole possible ghostly aspect of the legend with a sentence like, &quot;It is easy to imagine, when the fog rolls in and the tall grasses wave in the breeze how one could see...&quot; Even most of the legends are less than notable.  For example, we get the legend of Drunken Jack, which is an interesting story, the first fifty or so times that you hear it.  But anyone who has ever visited this area has heard this story at least a hundred times and has no need to spend their hard-earned money to hear it yet again.  Worse yet, the old joke about the drunk in the graveyard gets included in this book as a Grand Strand legend.<br />I think the real problem with this book is that the author doesn't believe in or even have an open mind about ghosts.  There was no going out and interviewing people who would tell her about the time that they saw a strange light here, there, or yonder.  This book is just a simple retelling of old legends that Mrs. Floyd has probably heard all of her life.<br />In all fairness, if you have never been to South Carolina or the Grand Strand, this book might just be of help in giving you a feel for the place.  If you want good, creepy, and scary ghost stories however, look elsewhere.	2003-07-29
US	51167656	R3M0TR042TKZ7C	0806515996	198589175	After the Funeral: The Posthumous Adventures of Famous Corpses	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Rest in peace, if you can.	Just exactly what does happen to a corpse after the funeral?  Well, for the most part the remains are allowed to rest in peace, but not always.  Exhumations are not all that uncommon. Whether it be for law enforcement purposes, DNA testing, or just simply because the next of kin have decided to move the body to another cemetery.  Generally it is pretty mundane stuff.  However, if the corpse just happens to be the remains of a famous person, then things can sometimes get interesting.<br />The next question that would occur to most people is; why would anyone want to move around a dead body or any part thereof?  That is what this book is all about.  Each of the corpses covered in this book has a completely separate entry to avoid confusion.  Each of those entries starts with a brief history of the deceased's life so that if the reader is not familiar with Lord Byron for example they are given a little information to start off with.  Usually within this short biography one finds the reason for the posthumous travels of their body, or the above mentioned parts thereof.  The reasons range from a somewhat warped but deep love or admiration, to politics, to obsessive hate, to tourism and even practical jokes.  The adventurous bodies in this book run the gambit from Oliver Cromwell to Thomas Paine and from Voltaire to Sitting Bull.  In short, the subject is fascinating.<br />Edwin Murphy writes in a clear manner and with a witty style.  I found a few historical errors but all in all, this book seems to be very well researched.  Also, when there are conflicting stories he presents both tales. For example, was it director Raoul Walsh or Peter Lorre who put the corpse of John Barrymore in Errol Flynn's living room?  Just that question alone should make most people want to read this book.  I thoroughly enjoyed my evenings with this book and I think you will too.	2003-07-29
US	51167656	R3RAFQSZAZXSJY	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	14	16	N	N	B. Franklin, Printer.	Certain figures in American history seem to catch the imagination of the public, generation after generation and Benjamin Franklin is most assuredly one of these figures.  Many biographies have been written about Mr. Franklin and Walter Isaacson has done a very commendable job with the latest entry in this series.  There is not much new information to be found here but this book is very well written and an easy and fun read.  The writing in my opinion is just as important as the content because if it is a dry and dull book, very few people will read it and it would therefore make little difference how much new information was available.  It is also important to note that even when going over the same material, each new biographer who tackles Franklin will put different emphasis on different subjects and therefore give even the most well read Franklin fan some new ideas to think about. I did find it very interesting however, that at the end of the book Isaacson took a look at how succeeding generations have looked at Franklin, both pro and con.  I am not aware of this being attempted before and it was unusually interesting.<br />Mr. Isaacson seems to me to be very harsh with Franklin for his family relationships.  Other Franklin biographers, notably H. W. Brands offer evidence that while Mr. Franklin was indeed not the best family man in our history, he was a much better husband and father than Isaacson seems to believe.  Otherwise however, Isaacson is very kind to Franklin.  I get the feeling that the harsh criticism of Franklin's family life may in some way be an effort by the author to avoid being labeled as one of those biographers who falls too much in love with his subject.  In fact, Isaacson goes out of his way to defend Franklin in his quarrels with John Adams and Arthur Lee.  Just as he defends the good Doctor from attacks coming from later generations.<br />Isaacson has put together a fine book that looks at all aspects of a very complex man.  The reader will be guided through Franklin's inventions, business dealings, fraternal and civic activities, his religious views, and most importantly, his huge contributions to the success of the Revolution and our present form of government.  It is well worth noting that many of the delegates to the constitutional convention thought that Franklin, not Washington would be president of the convention.  Indeed, it was possible that if Franklin had been younger he might just have been the first President of the United States.  In the minds of his peers, Franklin's stature seems to have been just as high as the General's.  Finally, it is well worth the time it takes to read this book just to see what Elbridge Gerry had to say about a large standing army.  I'm sure Franklin approved.will be guided through Franklin's inventions, business dealings, fraternal and civic activities, his religious views, and most importantly, his huge contributions to the success of the Revolution and our present form of government.  It is well worth noting that many of the delegates to the constitutional convention thought that Franklin, not Washington would be president of the convention.  Indeed, it was possible that if Franklin had been younger he might just have been the first President of the United States.  In the minds of his peers, Franklin's stature seems to have been just as high as the General's.  Finally, it is well worth the time it takes to read this book just to see what Elbridge Gerry had to say about a large standing army.  I'm sure Franklin approved.	2003-07-26
US	51167656	R1P6Q28S9R6EXJ	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	4	9	9	N	N	What if?	The fall of the Soviet Union and the resulting availability of Soviet archives to researchers have brought about several new studies of the cold war and its leading figures.  This book is an excellent example of the new insights to be gained by a more through understanding of what the Soviet leadership, in this case Khrushchev and company, were thinking. For a biography like this however, new Soviet material, while important, is not enough.  Any author who chooses to write about JFK must not only deal with the cold war, but also civil rights, Lyndon Johnson, Boston politics, George Wallace, Joseph Kennedy, Sr., and even Richard Nixon.  Robert Dallek has done a wonderful job of sorting through tons of material on the above subjects and much more to bring the Kennedy brothers and their era to life.  I say the Kennedy brothers because no study of JFK could possibly be complete without a close look at his brothers.<br />At first Jack's life is dominated by competition with his elder brother Joe, Jr.  At home, in school, and in the military Jack was expected to live up to his brother's example.  A task the future President was not up to. The strong and healthy Joe, Jr. always seemed to be better than Jack at most everything and their father actually seems to have been angry with Jack when he got sick.  Dallek points out over and over that Joe and Rose Kennedy were not ideal parents.  After Joe, Jr. was killed in WWII Jack became the heir apparent to his father's political ambitions for his eldest son.  It was during one of his early campaigns that Jack grew close to Bobby.<br />Bobby Kennedy does not come off well in this book.  He appears to be a spoiled, ill tempered, bully who yells at anyone who doesn't agree with him.  Given his later stands it is amazing to see RFK as far more belligerent toward the USSR than his brother.  In fact, at one point during an international crisis the author states that the U.S. and the world were lucky that JFK was president instead of RFK.  Still, it is obvious that President Kennedy put much faith in his brother and often used him as the bad guy.  Jack himself did not take criticism or opposition well; often referring to any whom opposed his view as a SOB.  But still, he was a much better sport than Bobby was.<br />Dallek has put together a highly readable and well-researched volume.  He is clearly impressed by his subject but does not hesitate to point out Jack's failures, and there were several.  JFK was in fact much more interested in foreign policy than domestic policy and seems to have been very much led in his decisions by polls.  He really did not become much of a leader in either category until the Cuban missile crisis, which seems to have given him more confidence.  He never really, for example, offered any leadership on civil rights until 1963 and even then the rich boy from New England never really could understand the dynamics in play.  He had never really been around blacks and had problems relating to them, while at the same time never grasping the attitudes of white southerners.  Worse, since Bobby couldn't stand LBJ, Kennedy never really used his Vice-President much, even though as a southerner Johnson was very familiar with the problems.  Dallek has not pulled any punches and his criticism of Kennedy's civil rights record shows it as does his detailing of Jack's health problems and womanizing.<br />I enjoyed this book thoroughly and after seeing the changes in Kennedy after October 1962 I can't help wonder: what if?  Unfortunately, the same question apparently occurred to Dallek who ends his book by trying to assess how successful JFK might have been in a second term.  As I said before, Dallek deserves high praise for his objectivity through out the rest of this book, but at the end his objectivity falters.  The book ends basically assuming that Congress would have passed all of Kennedy's second term proposals, Castro would have become the best friend America ever had, the Vietnam war would have just gone away, and the Soviets would have behaved admirably.  While all of this is possible, it is not likely and the credibility of the whole book suffers as Dallek himself falls victim to the very Kennedy aura he has been trying to explain.e Vietnam war would have just gone away, and the Soviets would have behaved admirably.  While all of this is possible, it is not likely and the credibility of the whole book suffers as Dallek himself falls victim to the very Kennedy aura he has been trying to explain.	2003-07-12
US	51167656	RKDCITMZPT06R	0312272065	790847017	Dynasty: The Stuarts: 1560-1807	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Assorted nuts!	My old college sociology professor once wrote a book entitled, \\"Nuts, Sluts, and Perverts.\\"  It's too bad that this name had been taken for it would have been an excellent title for this book.  The Stewarts were indeed a strange lot and John MacLeod has given us a good account of their lives.<br />The author's story really begins with Mary Queen of Scots, although he does spend a little time on her predecessors.  From the tragic figure of Mary, MacLeod takes the reader through to the last of the line, Henry IX, the brother of Bonnie Prince Charlie.  For the most part these people just seem to have been in over their heads and two of them literally lost their heads.  There were some accomplishments under the Stewarts however, most notably during the reigns of Charles II and Queen Anne.  To be honest, it might have been hard for any dynasty to last through this period in English history.  With Anglicans, Catholics, Presbyterians, Puritans, Quakers, and several other groups in a virtual state of war with each other these Stewart wardens of the asylum had their work cut out for them.<br />The most telling story in this work clearly illustrates the almost comic opera that was the Clan Stewart.  Charles II had several illegitimate children, one of whom made every effort to take the throne from James II upon Charles' death.  Finally James had had enough and his nephew lost his head.  Shortly after the execution someone decided that the deceased had left behind very few portraits.  They therefore sewed the head back on and had one last portrait painted.<br />This book is written as a popular history and the author clearly states that there is no new information to be found in his work.  Those who have studied the Stewarts (I prefer the Scottish spelling) before will not want to bother with this book.  On the other hand, for those of us who know very little of this dynasty and have had a hard time trying to figure out the who is who of the Stewart line, this is a very helpful book.  It's not too deep and overwhelming but just a basic look at the facts.  Sometimes however the author's sentence structure is a little hard to follow and there is a tendency to use phrases from various languages without a translation.  Also, while MacLeod may have been trying to give his reader a feel for the times, there does seem to be some anti-Catholic bias to be found.  He also goes a little over the top in his comments about Queen Anne's weight, to the point of being silly in fact.<br />In spite of these flaws however, this book would be a good start for someone just beginning to delve into Scottish or English history.  I enjoyed it a great deal.lpful book.  It's not too deep and overwhelming but just a basic look at the facts.  Sometimes however the author's sentence structure is a little hard to follow and there is a tendency to use phrases from various languages without a translation.  Also, while MacLeod may have been trying to give his reader a feel for the times, there does seem to be some anti-Catholic bias to be found.  He also goes a little over the top in his comments about Queen Anne's weight, to the point of being silly in fact.  <br />In spite of these flaws however, this book would be a good start for someone just beginning to delve into Scottish or English history.  I enjoyed it a great deal.	2003-07-11
US	51167656	RW82PJ7KVMIJG	0743223861	516879829	Fraud of the Century: Rutherford B. Hayes, Samuel Tilden, and the Stolen Election of 1876	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Not a hanging chad in sight.	As the smoke cleared from Election Day 1876 the people of the United States found themselves with no clear winner.  The Republican nominee, Rutherford B. Hayes at first was sure he had lost while at the same time the Democratic nominee Samuel Tilden was just as sure he had won.  The Republican National Chairman was so sure of Tilden's victory that on election night he went to bed with a bottle of whisky for comfort.  Enter Dan Sickles, yes the same Dan Sickles that shot down Philip Barton Key, the same Dan Sickles who had been the first American acquitted on a murder charge due to temporary insanity, and the same Dan Sickles who had gotten his corps chewed up at Gettysburg.  There is little surprise that this man was possibly the father of the biggest election fraud in American history.  It was Sickles who first wired the Republican governors of South Carolina, Florida, and Louisiana that they should hold their states for Hayes at all cost.  That they did.<br />What follows is a sad tale of corrupt state election boards, sneaky politicians, and various shenanigans by both campaigns.  The difference in the final outcome seems to be the result of circumstances that have to remind the reader of a certain recent election.  The Republican candidate seemed to exude confidence while Tilden acted like he had been hit in the face with a wet squirrel. Since Tilden didn't seem to know what to do that left his party wandering somewhat in the darkness.  Tilden's friends tried but without central leadership, without one hand knowing what the other was doing, their whole effort was a confused jumble. Hayes on the other hand, seemed to be completely at ease.  The Republican effort was smooth and effective and in the end everything was all decided in great part by the Supreme Court.  Just like 2000. Of course there was also the little understanding that if the south let Hayes win, reconstruction would end in the three states where troops were still stationed.  Hayes himself seems to have developed this idea while Tilden sat in his library and wrote legal briefs.<br />This book, by Roy Morris, Jr. is a very easy to read and engaging work.  The author makes it easy to keep up with what is going on even though the action is spread from Louisiana to DC and from Florida to Oregon.  Mr. Morris not only explains what happened but also speculates that President Grant had started reconstruction out the door, and that it was dead no matter who was President. He convincingly argues that white northerners were as tired of reconstruction as were white southerners and that Hayes in reality probably only shortened the occupation of the south by a few months.  He did not therefore, sell out southern blacks as badly as some would have us believe.  With the excellent research and scholarship to be found in this book, I highly recommend ithave developed this idea while Tilden sat in his library and wrote legal briefs.  <br />This book, by Roy Morris, Jr. is a very easy to read and engaging work.  The author makes it easy to keep up with what is going on even though the action is spread from Louisiana to DC and from Florida to Oregon.  Mr. Morris not only explains what happened but also speculates that President Grant had started reconstruction out the door, and that it was dead no matter who was President. He convincingly argues that white northerners were as tired of reconstruction as were white southerners and that Hayes in reality probably only shortened the occupation of the south by a few months.  He did not therefore, sell out southern blacks as badly as some would have us believe.  With the excellent research and scholarship to be found in this book, I highly recommend it	2003-07-02
US	51167656	RG4FPFG1CYRYK	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	3	25	41	N	N	A lot of truth, some fiction, but all in all, a good read.	In reading any autobiography or memoir one has to have some grains of salt handy.  It is simple human nature to present one's own life in the best possible light and few such books escape this trap.  This is especially true when the book in question is written by someone who is still a public figure, especially if that someone is likely to face the voters in some future contest.  I am quite sure that Senator Clinton is as guilty of this as anyone else. I am also sure however that she has not presented us with as big a work of fiction as some reviewers would have us believe.<br />On the plus side, this book offers the reader a look into at least some of the Clinton's private lives.  We get to hear about the paint ball birthday party at Camp David, the First Parents trip to California to help Chelsea move into her new dorm room, and the Socks vs. Buddy saga.  We find out that during their birthing class before Chelsea was born someone had told Bill to take a bag of ice to the hospital for Hillary to hold in her mouth.  When the mother to be announced it was time, she noticed a state trooper loading a 39-gallon bag of ice in the trunk.  Sounds like a lot of first time fathers to me.<br />On the negative side, one has to wonder about other allegations of Bill's philandering besides the story of Monica Lewinsky.  Except for those stories that have been proven to be baseless, none were mentioned. Hillary does admit that she seriously thought about divorce after he admitted the fling with Lewinsky and claims that in the end she decided she still loved him.  That might well be true.  I can't speak for the Senator, but I must admit that there is a lingering doubt, in my mind at least.<br />Another problem was the writing style.  It was a little like a speech at times and could also be a little preachy.  It was good however to hear her thoughts on Kenneth Starr.  Obviously she would not speak kindly of him but as a lawyer she was able to point out in clear detail her objections to his tactics. It was also good to find out a little about her friends and family.  Her early life in Chicago and her time as a, \\"Goldwater girl.\\"  The change in her attitudes as she grew up is a fascinating journey as is her courtship with Bill Clinton.  My wife fell in love with my eyes; Hillary fell in love with Bill's hands.  I also found that Hillary and I share the Methodist faith and John Wesley's principles have guided us both in many of our beliefs.<br />Finally, I personally agree with Hillary Clinton on many issues and that may have tainted my view of this book.  However, I also disagree with her on some issues so maybe I can be fairly objective.  The best reason to read this book has nothing to do with one's politics.  Like her or hate her, Hillary Clinton has been, and is a force in American politics and this book at the very least sheds a little bit of light on where she has been and where she is coming from.ctions to his tactics. It was also good to find out a little about her friends and family.  Her early life in Chicago and her time as a, \\"Goldwater girl.\\"  The change in her attitudes as she grew up is a fascinating journey as is her courtship with Bill Clinton.  My wife fell in love with my eyes; Hillary fell in love with Bill's hands.  I also found that Hillary and I share the Methodist faith and John Wesley's principles have guided us both in many of our beliefs.<br />Finally, I personally agree with Hillary Clinton on many issues and that may have tainted my view of this book.  However, I also disagree with her on some issues so maybe I can be fairly objective.  The best reason to read this book has nothing to do with one's politics.  Like her or hate her, Hillary Clinton has been, and is a force in American politics and this book at the very least sheds a little bit of light on where she has been and where she is coming from.	2003-06-24
US	51167656	R1YUBP1ZZX58SC	0761536418	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at  Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	3	16	29	N	N	An argument that at least deserves to be heard.	There is little doubt that prior to the civil war the United States government functioned in a far different manner than it did afterward.  The only Federal tax was a Tariff, the military was tiny, there was no National Banking System, and the States held a great deal of power.  President after President had used their veto power to stop Congress from attempting something that the Constitution gave them no power to do.  In short, the Federal Government was small and very limited in its scope.  There is also little doubt that many Americans, in both the north and south felt that states did have the right to secede from the Union.<br />Thomas Dilorenzo in this book argues that from day one of the civil war it was the goal of Abraham Lincoln and the Republicans to remake America, not end slavery. Dilorenzo points out that the Republicans were the heirs to the Whig tradition and their American System.  He further claims that Lincoln's chief political goal was to implement this system, both in Illinois and the nation as a whole.  Then comes the thrust of the author's whole argument.  In the halls of Congress and in the White House the people who had been most responsible for halting this centralized American System were southerners.  The list of southern leaders who had preached the virtues of small central government and states rights reads like a list of who's who in American history.  Jefferson, Madison, Jackson, Tyler, Calhoun, and of course Jefferson Davis.  Dilorenzo's whole point is that Lincoln seized on the opportunity the secession crisis gave him to once and for all crush the south and build a strong central government to which the states would be subservient.<br />In this book, Dilorenzo makes some very strong arguments for the case he is trying to make.  On the other hand there are some assertions for which the evidence is very weak.  There is also a great deal of time spent in simply trying to trash Lincoln. I have always known the Abraham Lincoln was not the saint that he is often portrayed as.  No one could be.  He was a raciest (as were most whites in 1860) and he did trample on the civil rights of the northern population in a way that we would never stand for today. However, the \\"real\\" Lincoln has to be somewhere between the Lincoln myth and the portrait painted by Dilorenzo.<br />Finally, as you read this book, remember that the author is an economics professor and his training shows.  Not to say that this is bad for sometimes it is a refreshing change.  Dilorenzo is also a rabid conservative and his case against Lincoln and his strong central government is really a diatribe against our current federal government and a plea to roll back the years and do away with most government programs.  Liberal or conservative, Lincoln fan or Confederate groupie pick up this book and read it. No matter how weak it is in places it will possibly give you some new insights into the civil war and it will at the least give you something to think about.ot the saint that he is often portrayed as.  No one could be.  He was a raciest (as were most whites in 1860) and he did trample on the civil rights of the northern population in a way that we would never stand for today. However, the \\"real\\" Lincoln has to be somewhere between the Lincoln myth and the portrait painted by Dilorenzo.  <br />Finally, as you read this book, remember that the author is an economics professor and his training shows.  Not to say that this is bad for sometimes it is a refreshing change.  Dilorenzo is also a rabid conservative and his case against Lincoln and his strong central government is really a diatribe against our current federal government and a plea to roll back the years and do away with most government programs.  Liberal or conservative, Lincoln fan or Confederate groupie pick up this book and read it. No matter how weak it is in places it will possibly give you some new insights into the civil war and it will at the least give you something to think about.	2003-06-16
US	51167656	R12V6TR4MB38ZE	074323443X	199612628	Dearest Friend: A Life of Abigail Adams	Books	4	27	29	N	N	An amazing woman!	During the history of the United States there have been many women who have sacrificed just as much or more for their country than did Abigail Adams, but not many.  Thanks to the voluminous correspondence of Mrs. Adams this book was made possible and should stand as a monument to all of these women.<br />In recent years the life of John Adams has been reexamined and his role in American history has again come to the forefront.  Without Abigail, Mr. Adams could never have accomplished what he did.  For unlike many of the other leaders of the Revolution, Adams was not a man of means.  When he was away, someone had to look after the family's domestic concerns.  That someone was Abigail.  John became so accustomed to having Abigail to take care of home and hearth that when he did have time to see to such matters he seldom did.<br />This book details the work Abigail did behind the scenes to allow John to make his vital contributions to American independence.  We see a strong woman who is more than willing to take charge of a given situation and make a decision.  We also see however a wife who misses her husband.  Abigail and John Adams are one of the true love stories of history.  Their complete devotion to each other is amazing, especially in that the longer they were together the more in love they became.  In the end becoming almost one soul in two bodies.  Abigail's worst hardships didn't involve the work she did but the separations from John.  Separations that lasted months and then years at a time.<br />Abigail is also shown in this book as a woman of strong conviction but also a woman of great contradiction.  She and her husband helped make the American Revolution but she detested revolution as a threat to the social order.  She believed strongly in a good education for women but still thought a woman's place was in the home.  She believed the election of a Republican President would destroy the republic, but eventually became a Republican herself.  Mrs. Adams was also probably a better politician than her husband was and while she had much influence on her husband, there were times when he paid no attention to her and ended up wishing he had.  For example, it was Abigail who first saw the danger posed by Alexander Hamilton and it was Hamilton who in the end cost John the Presidency.<br />An excellent book but not complete.  A much larger volume would be required to do this great lady justice. Still, it is wonderful that there is such a book at all for the women of that era are often forgotten.  Abigail once advised John to not forget the ladies.  Advise we should remember in the 21st century.ms was also probably a better politician than her husband was and while she had much influence on her husband, there were times when he paid no attention to her and ended up wishing he had.  For example, it was Abigail who first saw the danger posed by Alexander Hamilton and it was Hamilton who in the end cost John the Presidency.  <br />An excellent book but not complete.  A much larger volume would be required to do this great lady justice. Still, it is wonderful that there is such a book at all for the women of that era are often forgotten.  Abigail once advised John to not forget the ladies.  Advise we should remember in the 21st century.	2003-06-11
US	51167656	R3RFSYVHIC7LJA	0807847224	835980474	Fighting for the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward Porter Alexander (Civil War America)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A civil war must read!	If you only read one civil war memoir, this is the one to read.  There are so many positives to be found in this book that I don't think I can list them all.  On the other hand I didn't find anything at all that I would consider a negative.<br />General Alexander wrote this book for his family at his daughter's request.  She wanted to be sure that they had a clear record of the General's role in the war.  Since Alexander never intended for this to be published, it is not written in the deep, dry, and dull formal Victorian style.  Instead it is written almost as a long letter to his family and is therefore easy to read and understand.  I spent several long nights, well past my bedtime, engrossed in the General's story.  That seldom happens with a dull book.<br />Alexander's having written this for his family is also a plus in that he is entirely honest.  He has no ax to grind, no score to settle, and no point to make.  Many civil war leaders, both military and civilian wrote memoirs after the war.  Unfortunately, most were written with the idea of aggrandizing themselves or proving they weren't at fault for a particular failure.  Longstreet for example, wrote an excellent book but he spends all too much time trying to defend himself from the vicious attacks that were being launched on him.  There is none of that here.  Alexander calls things as he sees them.  For example he heaps praise on General Lee for the most part, but where he finds fault, he says so.  There is also a great deal of praise for General Grant to be found in these pages.<br />Finally, in various capacities Alexander was in close contact with the Confederate high command throughout the war.  From First Bull Run to Appomattox Alexander was there.  He was with the Virginia Army in all of its major efforts and was with Longstreet on his trip to Tennessee.  Seldom can one find this kind of insight into both of the Confederacy's major armies.  There are amusing tales, stories of the hardships faced by the common solider, and touching reflections on Alexander's last meeting with some of his comrades who were killed in battle.<br />Do not pass this opportunity up.  This book is an enjoyable read and is full of insight.  If any book belongs in a well-stocked civil war library, this one does.  Alexander probably did as much service to his native south with this book as he did during four years of war.by the common solider, and touching reflections on Alexander's last meeting with some of his comrades who were killed in battle.<br />Do not pass this opportunity up.  This book is an enjoyable read and is full of insight.  If any book belongs in a well-stocked civil war library, this one does.  Alexander probably did as much service to his native south with this book as he did during four years of war.	2003-06-05
US	51167656	R2YLI38TXGLGQ6	037570390X	317933135	Hurricane Watch: Forecasting the Deadliest Storms on Earth	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Well blow me down.	Ever since I was a child trapped inside by the pouring rain as the remnants of Camille passed over East Tennessee, I have been fascinated by hurricanes.  With that in mind, this book was hard to resist.  Especially since I had spent many hours watching Dr. Sheets on television.  It is pretty obvious though that Jack Williams did most of the writing and for those of us who are not that familiar with the science of meteorology that is a very good thing for this is a very complicated subject and dumbing down is exactly what I needed.<br />This book is not so much a book about major hurricanes as it is a history of the predicting of hurricanes.  From Columbus to the present satellites and Doppler systems this book tells the story of man's attempts to guess what Mother Nature is up to.  There is even a chapter about attempts to actually control hurricanes.<br />Even with the simple way the authors attempted to tell their story I was lost at times but not all too often.  For a trained meteorologist this book would probably seem almost childish, but for the average person like myself it is just about right.  I still don't completely understand everything about wind sheer, computer models, and latent heat but I am at least familiar with the terms now.  From now on, as a hurricane approaches the U.S. coast and I sit there in front of the TV I will have a vague idea of how the computer models work and will know all about the Bermuda high.<br />The chapter I found the most interesting was the chapter about hurricane Andrew.  That is the kind of thing I was actually looking for in this book but even though I only found one chapter of what I had been looking for, I still found this book to be highly informative, interesting, and well written.  I imagine that Dr. Sheets could write an entire book on Andrew, and I wish he would	2003-05-20
US	51167656	R3CBT23W6RITIN	0700608206	275186270	Stonewall of the West: Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Long overdue!	For many years the officers and men who made up the Army of Tennessee have played second fiddle to Lee's eastern army.  The very title of this book clearly illustrates this point for one never hears a general in Lee's army referred to as the Cleburne of the east.  Finally though, thanks in large part to the efforts of historians like Thomas L. Connelly and Shelby Foote and the diaries of Sam Watkins, the brave men of the Army of Tennessee are being given due credit.<br />Craig Symonds has added his name to the above list with this excellent study of General Patrick Cleburne.  No study of the Army of Tennessee would be complete without a study of one of its best generals, and therefore this biography is a very important addition to any Civil War library.  Best of all, the author writes in a flowing style that helps make this book a joy to read.<br />Unfortunately, much of Cleburne's personal correspondence has not survived but Symonds has done an excellent job of digging up what does exist.  Fortunately, the Irish general was very precise with his battle reports and the correspondence of many of his close associates does still exist.  Working with these sources the author weaves together a fascinating story.  He doesn't dwell on the logistics of various battles, which tends to make for dry reading but instead describes very concisely the part Cleburne played in the battle<br />Symonds also deals in some detail with Cleburne's personal life, from his early life in Ireland to his engagement.  There is also a good deal of attention given to Cleburne's close friendships, both before and during the war, and his political beliefs and activities.  Of course, Cleburne's proposal to arm and free the slaves is also dealt with in detail.  From his own formulation of the plan, to the icy reception it received, to the possibility that his proposal may have been partially responsible for his lack of further promotion, the plan and its ramifications and insights into Cleburne's personality are closely examined.<br />For any student of the war this would be a worthwhile read, but for anyone with a particular interest in the Army of Tennessee it is an indispensable read.ersonality are closely examined.<br />For any student of the war this would be a worthwhile read, but for anyone with a particular interest in the Army of Tennessee it is an indispensable read.	2003-05-08
US	51167656	RSANGLEB6CBWU	0375405836	265617910	Jesse James: Last Rebel of the Civil War	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The life and times of America's most famous outlaw.	Most everyone in the United States has at one time or another watched a television program or movie that is supposed to portray the \\"real\\" life of Jesse James.  Unfortunately, most of these stories, while entertaining, are pure hogwash.  T. J. Stiles on the other hand seems to have given us a true-life story of the famous outlaw.  A story that, thanks to the author, is highly readable and easy to understand while still delving into some of the deeper aspects of the regional history of western Missouri.<br />Stiles has told the story of Jesse's background, a background that contributed much to the man he would become.  His strong willed mother of course was a driving influence but there were many other factors that may have had just as much influence on young Jesse as did his mother.  For example, Jesse's family was not only a slave owning family but owned several more slaves than the average Missouri slave owning family.  His father, a Baptist minister, had fought to keep abolitionists out of his church and early in the war his brother Frank had fought in the regular Confederate army.  It was Frank in fact who first joined the Confederate guerrilla movement in Missouri with Jesse following in his brother's footsteps.<br />After the war many of the guerrillas had a tough time adjusting to life under Radical Republican rule and like the Klan in the rest of the south they took up arms to break the Radicals.  Slowly, Jesse emerged as the most flashy and outspoken of the post war bandits and became the hero of many of Missouri's Confederate citizens.  When newspaperman John Edwards began to champion the James-Younger gang Jesse James became a symbol of resistance to Radical rule.  Edwards did indeed use Jesse James to further his cause but Stiles argues and argues well that Jesse understood his role well and was happy with it.<br />Of course Jesse and Frank James did not rob the rich to give to the poor, they robbed for themselves but as Stiles points out, they chose their targets carefully so as to avoid becoming unpopular.  In short, Jesse James was probably the first bandit in American history to plan his acts with an eye toward the possible political results of his action.  Stiles says James may have been the first terrorist in history.  That may be taking it a bit far but the author does make an interesting argument and does so without putting his readers to sleep.  Great book!their targets carefully so as to avoid becoming unpopular.  In short, Jesse James was probably the first bandit in American history to plan his acts with an eye toward the possible political results of his action.  Stiles says James may have been the first terrorist in history.  That may be taking it a bit far but the author does make an interesting argument and does so without putting his readers to sleep.  Great book!	2003-05-01
US	51167656	R3LU55IBZ76ZW4	0385504535	816121868	Conclave: The Politics, Personalities and Process of the Next Papal Election	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Politics of the Church	The election of a new Pope will obviously have a great impact on the lives of the One Billion or so Catholics around the world.  The selection of a new Holy Father however, will also have a very  far-reaching impact on the rest of the people of the world.  Not only does the Pope have a great influence on world affairs but as the Catholic Church opens more and more dialogue with other Christian and indeed non-Christian faiths the selection of the next Pontiff is of supreme importance.  It is for those reasons, and of course my deep Catholic faith that I decided to read this book.<br /><br />I am very happy to say that John Allen has written a book that will not only be informative to life-long Catholics but also to  new Catholics, Protestants and anyone else who finds this subject to be of interest.  He very clearly enunciates the differences that exist within the College of Cardinals on all sorts of issues, both spiritual and temporal.  He also leads his readers through the side issues that may also decide the conclave's choice.  As examples, many within the Church apparently would like to see a third world Pope, there is little chance that John Paul's successor will be from Eastern Europe, and because of John Paul's long tenure there is little chance that the next Pope will be young.  That thought had never crossed my mind but apparently many of the Cardinals are not fond of long reigns.<br /><br />The best part of this book however, was the section dealing with the details of how a new Pope is elected.  Allen takes his readers on a step by step journey through the process, from the Pope's death until his successor is elected and he accepts the job.  It is a fascinating process and Allen does a tremendous job making it understandable and highly easy to read.  There is even a glossary at the back of the book to help the reader keep up with some of the titles and terms used in the book. Thanks to John Allen I now know just what a Cardinal is, and that knowledge alone was well worth the price of the book.h the price of the book.	2003-04-17
US	51167656	R1BD3TOSDWC9NL	0060174951	518106967	Sherman: A Soldier's Life	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A good introduction to General Sherman	Over the last few years several outstanding biographies have been written.  Biographies that delve deep into their subject and bring that person and their entire family to life.  This is not one of those books.  This is not to say that Lee Kennett has produced a bad biography, just a biography that pales in comparison to some other works.  Simply put, it is impossible to do a complete biography on a man as complex as William T. Sherman in a scant 353 pages.  To write a reasonably detailed account of the, &quot;Great March&quot; alone would have taken more space than this whole book.<br />What Kennett has produced is a good quick scan of the General's life.  The details of his campaigns and many other facets of his life have been left for others.  As an example, he covers the battles around Atlanta in about two pages.  Not much in the way of detail will be found on any of the battles that Sherman was involved in for the author has instead tried to deal with the personality traits that made Sherman into Sherman.  Unfortunately, the search for Sherman the inner man is not all that successful.  The author does make some interesting points but he never seems to really get into the soul of his subject.  It would indeed be interesting if someone could really get into the soul of the man who devastated so much of the south and then turned around and attempted to give back to the south all it was about to lose.<br />On the whole, I found this an interesting book.  It is the first time I have read about General Sherman in any detail, and I'm sure that those who have studied the General before will find this book lacking.  However, for someone not very aquatinted with Sherman this is a fairly good book.  I never quite felt that I knew, &quot;Cump&quot; but I did begin to feel as if I would like to know much more about him.  That in itself is an accomplishment for Mr. Kennett for I, like many other sons of the south, was raised to detest that foul Yankee firebug.	2003-04-14
US	51167656	R384OVYKAGPU5Q	0812920791	317566647	Turning Point	Books	5	9	9	N	N	If only he had communicated this well as President.	President Carter has in this book painted an extremely clear portrait of the world of rural southern politics.  A world that has changed some since the 1962 election he describes in this work, but not much.  Just last year in my own House district the Republican primary candidate from the smaller of the two counties in the district won the election after no returns came in from his county until all the returns were in from the larger county.  Officials in the smaller county then knew the margin they needed, and they delivered.  The results weren't contested but a few years ago when the results of an election were contested it was found that many of the votes cast in this small county were cast by the dead.  Just like in Quitman County.<br />Carter tells the story of his first run for public office in a very comfortable and easy to read style.  Even though I knew the outcome I couldn't put the book down because I just had to know what happened next.  From the time he starts his campaign one can sense history unfolding, not just as the election laws of Georgia change, but also as a nave candidate slowly begins to learn the lessons that will eventually take him to the White House.  Carter does miss one important point though that deserves some attention.  The heavy weight given to rural votes in the south was not only an attempt to keep blacks out of politics but revealed the strong influence Thomas Jefferson still held on the south.  Jefferson I think would have been very happy to see the votes of small farmer's carry more weight than the votes in urban areas.  Add to that the strong influence of the Populists in the turn of the century south and the system in place in 1962 Georgia makes perfect sense.  Basically, liberal thinkers had put in place the system the new liberals wanted to change.<br />Reading this book, along with some of the former President's other works have made me feel as if I have known the man for years.  Honest, compassionate, sensitive, intelligent, and indeed somewhat bullheaded are all words that come to mind when trying to describe the man from Plains.  If you don't get to know this great American it will be a loss to no one but you and to get to know him you need this book.  It is a book you will enjoy.ligent, and indeed somewhat bullheaded are all words that come to mind when trying to describe the man from Plains.  If you don't get to know this great American it will be a loss to no one but you and to get to know him you need this book.  It is a book you will enjoy.	2003-04-02
US	51167656	R29KPO1U5CPRJJ	1882810651	513451103	Last Chance for Victory: Robert E. Lee and the Gettysburg Campaign	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Thought Provoking	No matter which school of thought one follows concerning Robert E. Lee, this book is bound to make you give a lot of thought to Lee's leadership at Gettysburg. If the writers are able to make the reader stop and think about his or her preconceived notions then they have accomplished much. At times, I found myself laying the book aside and picturing in my mind various areas of the battlefield along with the movement of the troops that the authors were then describing. The use of excellent maps to illustrate the point that was being made was also a great plus for this book.<br />After the numerous books that have come out in the last few years criticizing Lee mercilessly, this book is a welcome counterpoint. Unfortunately, these authors, like those who heap criticisms on Lee, tend to go to the extreme. The truth probably lies somewhere in between. This work makes a very credible argument that Lee's orders to J.E.B. Stuart were fairly explicit as the army began to move north and that Stuart simply went off on his own. There is also clear evidence that A.P. Hill was responsible for the failure of the attack on July 2nd and that Richard Ewell, new to corps command and possibly unnerved by his own initial success on July 1st let a clear opportunity to carry Cemetery Hill pass. The words, \\"if practicable,\\" in his orders is a poor excuse for his lack of action because taking that hill was very practicable. The authors also give a very clear and convincing argument as to why Longstreet's flanking maneuver would not have worked and present the most clear and well written picture I have read of what Lee was up to with his echelon attack on July 2nd.<br />On the other hand this book fails to explain away some of Lee's failures during the campaign. The cavalry Lee has with him is dismissed as little more than guerrilla fighters and not up to the tasks Lee needed Stuart for. While it is true that these units might not have been able to perform all of Stuart's duties they most certainly could have been used to scout the enemy. In fact, it would seem that they would have been better than Stuart at that type of duty. Lee was simply too dependent on Stuart and if it weren't for Longstreet having taken the initiative and sending out scouts, the Confederate army might have been destroyed bit by bit. The authors also pin blame on Lee's chief of artillery William Pendleton. As they argue, he was incompetent, but it was Lee who kept him on in that position out of courtesy and therefore it is Lee who must bear the blame for Pendleton's mistakes. The authors also explain that Lee didn't directly intervene when Hill's Corps was ruining the echelon attack on July 2nd because for Lee to go back and make Hill follow his orders would have negated Lee's need for corps commanders. In fact, Lee did just that on July 1st forcing Hill to act like a corps commander.<br />Finally, the authors do not paint a convincing picture of how Lee could have succeeded on July 3rd. They argue that had Pickett, Pettigrew, and Trimble's men been followed by a second wave, as Lee had wanted, the Union center would have broke. Here their arguments are weak and a second wave still appears to me to be only an invitation to more destruction of that fine army. The authors simply brush by the question of why the weak troops under weak leaders (Brockenbrough and Davis) and divisions that had been chewed to pieces on July 1st (Archer and Pettigrew) were chosen to join Pickett's fresh troops on July 3rd. The truth seems to be that after Longstreet had convinced Lee that Hood and McLaws divisions were too beaten up to make the advance, Lee simply gave Longstreet the closest available troops from Hill's Crops. This is a mistake that rests with Lee, and Lee alone.<br />This is an excellent book for someone who wishes to study Gettysburg from all angles. Read this in tandem with some of Gary Gallagher's works and decide for yourself how well Lee performed at Gettysburg. Overlook the typos for they are not the author's fault and remember some of the fault for the Confederate loss at Gettysburg does lie with the Yankee army. To their credit, the authors of this book do point that out.os for they are not the author's fault and remember some of the fault for the Confederate loss at Gettysburg does lie with the Yankee army. To their credit, the authors of this book do point that out.	2003-03-31
US	51167656	RQNHPRATYRDC9	0195123573	144676423	The Fiery Cross: The Ku Klux Klan in America	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The Kluxing of America	In this book Wyn Wade has given us a very good overview but not an extremely detailed look at the Ku Klux Klan.  That is not to say that he has not done his research for he has found lots of material.  The simple fact is that a book of this length cannot possibly cover the subject in any great depth. That would require a book at least twice this long, and probably three times as long.  This book was obviously not intended to be a Shelby Foote type narrative of the Klan, but the basic survey that it is.<br />Wade has done a good job with the post reconstruction Klan, but he tends to take revisionist history a bit too far.  One thing that puzzles me is that he refers to Tennessee as the, \\"the only border state\\" that left the Union.  Many historians refer to the Volunteer State as a border state even though it was surrounded by slave states on all sides, so I can let that part of the statement slide.  I have never however heard of Tennessee referred to as a border state without at least Virginia and Arkansas also receiving that label.  It's not a big thing I realize, but it did bug me.<br />After reconstruction, Wade takes the reader to the history of D.W. Griffith's \\"Birth of a Nation\\", the movie that made the rebirth and rise of the post World War I Klan possible. Then he traces the new Klan through its phenomenal growth to its demise.  Wade then moves on to the Cold War anti-Communist Klan, the Civil Rights era Klan, the David Duke Klan, and today's Aryan crowd.  He does a fine job of bringing out the personalities of various Klan leaders and giving the lowdown on various politicians who, while not Klansmen themselves, were more than happy to court Klan support.  He also does an outstanding job of telling the story of Klan violence, with special attention to the victims.<br />Wade ends this fascinating book with the story of the groups that have been organized to oppose the Klan and the FBI campaign that brought the Klan to its knees.  Finally, Wade warns the reader that the Klan is still out there and should never be pronounced dead.  The Klan has proven its resilience again and again he warns and his excellent book will give the reader many reasons to be wary of the men behind the masks.ader that the Klan is still out there and should never be pronounced dead.  The Klan has proven its resilience again and again he warns and his excellent book will give the reader many reasons to be wary of the men behind the masks.	2003-02-25
US	51167656	R1LVTJB8PO87YK	0813122171	354222913	Blood on the Moon: The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Well done.	Much like the Kennedy assassination, the Lincoln assassination has been the subject of more than its share of conspiracy theories. Mr. Steers does an excellent job of debunking most all of these theories by meticulously sifting through the evidence and proving, point by point, that these theories do not hold water. He is able to use the same method to prove most of his own hypothesis concerning Booth and his conspirators.  As is mentioned in earlier reviews, Steers does seem to take particular delight in proving the guilt of Mary Surratt and Dr. Mudd.  Mudd takes the brunt of Steers' assault, possibly because this is the area of Mr. Steers' greatest knowledge.  It is also possible however that the vigor of the author's attacks can be traced to the fact that the Mudd family has done an excellent job convincing most Americans that the good doctor was as much of a victim as was Lincoln.  Steers proves that Mudd was indeed involved, and then drives the point home. Make no mistake, he proves it, just as he proves most of his points by doing his research and doing it well.<br />Please don't be afraid of this book.  The writing is clear and easy to follow.  Most importantly, it's interesting.  There are indeed a lot of names to keep up with but most of those names are going to be pretty familiar to anyone with any knowledge of the period. To make things even easier, Steers gives the reader a good concise history of the conspirators. As a bonus, there is also a chapter devoted to following Lincoln's body on its trip back to Illinois.  It's a very interesting chapter at that.<br />I do have one serious problem with this book.  To Steers' credit he does point out that if Jefferson Davis was in on the plot, he had good reason to be.  It was the Federals that first broke the rule of not trying to knock off a head of state.  The Confederate President had indeed been targeted for death by a group of Union raiders attempting to enter Richmond, and the southerners had the captured orders to prove it.  Steers however makes no attempt to link Lincoln with this incident and in fact Lincoln may not have known anything about it.  The problem is that Steers uses such flimsy evidence to connect Davis with Booth, that the same line of thought would have to connect Lincoln to the earlier plot.  Over and over Steers makes statements such as, \\"Davis must have known,\\" or, \\"Davis would have had to know.\\"  No evidence is presented to support these statements except that a plot to kidnap the President of the United States could not have been undertaken by the Confederate Secret Service without the approval of the President.  If that were the case how could the U.S. Army undertake a plot to assassinate the Confederate President without Lincoln's knowledge. The answer is, it would appear to be very possible that Lincoln did not know what his army was up to just as it would be very possible that Davis had no idea what his spies were up to.<br />Despite this flaw, this is a fine book.  New light is shed on an old subject and maybe a few old myths have been put out of their misery.  I may just have to read Mr. Steers book on Dr. Mudd.  If this book is any indication, it will be well worth the effort.orders to prove it.  Steers however makes no attempt to link Lincoln with this incident and in fact Lincoln may not have known anything about it.  The problem is that Steers uses such flimsy evidence to connect Davis with Booth, that the same line of thought would have to connect Lincoln to the earlier plot.  Over and over Steers makes statements such as, \\"Davis must have known,\\" or, \\"Davis would have had to know.\\"  No evidence is presented to support these statements except that a plot to kidnap the President of the United States could not have been undertaken by the Confederate Secret Service without the approval of the President.  If that were the case how could the U.S. Army undertake a plot to assassinate the Confederate President without Lincoln's knowledge. The answer is, it would appear to be very possible that Lincoln did not know what his army was up to just as it would be very possible that Davis had no idea what his spies were up to.  <br />Despite this flaw, this is a fine book.  New light is shed on an old subject and maybe a few old myths have been put out of their misery.  I may just have to read Mr. Steers book on Dr. Mudd.  If this book is any indication, it will be well worth the effort.	2003-02-12
US	51167656	R2IMNMWY7FK8Z0	1572492236	688500299	Struggle for the Round Tops: Law's Alabama Brigade at the Battle of Gettysburg	Books	5	12	12	N	N	"Sweet Home Alabama"	No battle in the history of the United States and perhaps no battle in the history of the world is associated with more, \\"what ifs\\" than the battle of Gettysburg.  A large percent of those, \\"what ifs\\" are associated with the struggle for the Round Tops on July 2nd.  What if Longstreet had attacked earlier? What if Sickles had stayed where he was supposed to stay?  What if Warren had arrived on Little Round Top a half-hour later? What if Benning Had not lost his bearing and had joined Law's attack on Little Round Top?  What if Hood had been allowed to go around the Union left flank?  Penny and Laine do mention these what ifs, but only on rare occasions do they attempt to speculate on what might have happened.  Instead they deal in facts, or what DID happen.<br />This book must have taken years to research for they have dug deep into regimental histories and it would appear they have even researched the personal papers of any solider who's family still happens to have them around.  By doing such exhaustive research the authors are able to provide us with personal glimpses of the men involved, things like what they did before the war and after the war.  One soldier even credits berries in part for his recovery from diarrhea. You can't get much more personal than that.<br />In all honesty, this is not a book for the casual reader.  I have spent many hours prowling around the battlefield at Gettysburg and on occasion I had trouble keeping up with what regiment was where.  Taking that problem into account, the authors have included numerous maps showing the troop movements in great detail.  The maps are a huge help.  This book also does an excellent job of keeping things interesting, even while getting into a good deal of minutia.<br />This is an excellent book for anyone fascinated by those three July days in Pennsylvania.  Anyone doing research on the battle needs a copy of this book. Penny and Laine allow us to follow Law's Brigade from Virginia to Gettysburg, and back again.  I would love to have the time to run up to Gettysburg, climb up and sit on a big boulder at Devil's Den and read this book.  While sitting there, able to look around me and see the places described, this book's vivid account of July 2nd, 1863 would almost transport me back in time and allow me to see it all for myself.  Great Job!ck again.  I would love to have the time to run up to Gettysburg, climb up and sit on a big boulder at Devil's Den and read this book.  While sitting there, able to look around me and see the places described, this book's vivid account of July 2nd, 1863 would almost transport me back in time and allow me to see it all for myself.  Great Job!	2003-02-07
US	51167656	R3K3QOVD50G97K	1883522080	286209030	Banshees, Bugles and Belles: True Ghost Stories of Georgia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Way down in spooky old dixie!	For the reader who loves ghost stories that are well written and informative this is a book you will want to add to your library.  Barbara Duffey has put together a nice collection of peach state haunts.  She has researched the material and has apparently been to most of the sites.  Her writing style is very nice and keeps the reader interested throughout the book.  Best of all, at the end of each story she tells you the address of the haunted site and whether or not it is open to the public.  Just in case the reader would like to do a little ghost hunting themselves.<br />Any decent book of southern ghost tales has to include certain stories, and they are all here.  Southern Belles mourning for eternity loved ones lost in the war, mistreated slaves, confederate soldiers, and homes that survived Sherman by some quirk of fate.  Jefferson Davis even manages a cameo.  As a nice little extra there is a story about the ghost of Marion Stembridge and if you don't recognize the name just rent the movie Paris Trout.<br />The only real drawback to this book is what I would call it's chill rating.  The stories are engrossing but they just don't send a chill up your spine and cause you to have trouble sleeping.  In Duffey's defense, very few ghost books do accomplish much on the chill scale and while this book won't scare you, it will entertain you.	2003-01-27
US	51167656	R1KMPYE9Z7G9X7	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	5	10	10	N	N	History with style!	Michael Beschloss has not only added a great deal to the study of World War II and the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, he has given us a clear picture of how FDR and Truman laid the groundwork for America's victory in the Cold War.  It seems that even though FDR has been raked over the coals for years for not taking a stronger stand against Stalin, he did in fact know what he was doing.  This book shows just what FDR was up to in wonderfully interesting detail.  Beschloss manages to draw the reader into the story almost as if it were a classic novel.  He never assumes the reader will know all about Henry Morgenthau, Cordell Hull, or Henry Stimson. Instead he gives even the most novice reader of World War II material enough background to help explain their respective positions, both in relation to FDR and on policy.<br />There are some very troubling things about FDR however that one learns in this book.  It is fairly well known that he didn't keep Truman up to date on anything, but in this book one finds that no one seemed to know what FDR wanted or intended to do about almost everything.  His ego seemed to tell him that he didn't really need anyone else, or even if he did, he wasn't going to let anyone but himself get the credit for any administration accomplishment.  To keep everyone in line he played little games with people's minds and played one department head off against another.  That in itself explains why he let Morgenthau run amuck for so long.  Unfortunately, it also seems that FDR himself may not have known what he wanted to do with a defeated Germany and may have actually leaned toward Morgenthau's plan for a while.  When one considers just how sick FDR was, and that he may have actually been considering turning the Presidency over to Truman, the mass chaos he fostered in his administration was really inexcusable.<br />Most damaging of all to FDR's place in history is that it was he who refused to allow the bombing of the Nazi death camps.  There were several in his administration who argued against the bombings using rather flimsy arguments. No matter whether FDR chose to accept any of those arguments, or just decided it was bad politics, it is a black mark in American history that will never go away.  Truth be told, I can understand Morgenthau's frustration and desire to make Germany pay for her sins.<br />Truman only comes into play toward the last of the book.  Fortunately, the new President had a clear head and a keen mind, so that he was able to step into the mess he inherited.  The fact that Henry Wallace or Jimmy Byrnes might well have been in Truman's place is indeed scary.<br />Finally, there is a lot of new material in this book.  As new records in the U.S., Britain, and Russia come open, many a new surprise may await us.  Beschloss has already uncovered a few and in fact put off finishing this book until some files he needed were available to him.  In short, there is a lot of new knowledge to be gained by reading this book, and there is also a slightly different spin on some already know facts. Well-written, well-researched, GREAT BOOK!re were several in his administration who argued against the bombings using rather flimsy arguments. No matter whether FDR chose to accept any of those arguments, or just decided it was bad politics, it is a black mark in American history that will never go away.  Truth be told, I can understand Morgenthau's frustration and desire to make Germany pay for her sins.<br />Truman only comes into play toward the last of the book.  Fortunately, the new President had a clear head and a keen mind, so that he was able to step into the mess he inherited.  The fact that Henry Wallace or Jimmy Byrnes might well have been in Truman's place is indeed scary. <br />Finally, there is a lot of new material in this book.  As new records in the U.S., Britain, and Russia come open, many a new surprise may await us.  Beschloss has already uncovered a few and in fact put off finishing this book until some files he needed were available to him.  In short, there is a lot of new knowledge to be gained by reading this book, and there is also a slightly different spin on some already know facts. Well-written, well-researched, GREAT BOOK!	2003-01-11
US	51167656	R6I36D7NZOEU3	0809444542	365541337	Three Months in the Southern States: April-June, 1863 (Collector's Library of the Civil War)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A different perspective on the civil war.	Lieut. -Col. Arthur Fremantle has not given us in this work a tired and boring look at strategy and tactics. He has also not told us anything new about the leading men of the Confederacy.  What the reader will get is an excellent look at day to day life in the Confederate army and in the southern nation itself.<br />The lack of tactical detail could result from the fact that Fremantle, although a career military man had never seen combat until Gettysburg.  It could also result from his desire to avoid aiding the north by giving away secrets while the war was still in progress.  There are, after all, instances in the book where Fremantle makes it clear that he is not writing about all he saw for that very reason.  Whatever the reason, I'm happy he left out the tactics for it would have only slowed down a marvelous account of Fremantle's trip through the Confederacy.<br />It is obvious early on that Fremantle is very taken with the south and some of his stories about happy slaves might reflect a bit of propaganda. Overall however, his stories of individual behavior are more than credible and drive home the point that this war was affecting the lives of real people, not historical figures. The stories of hotel keepers in northern territory that were hesitant to let him have a room until he produced gold coin for payment, the slave of a Confederate officer leading a Yankee prisoner by a rope tied around the poor prisoner's neck, and the several stories of southern women being far more antagonistic toward the north than were the men, all help bring the human side of the civil war to life.  Reading Fremantle's account of General Lee's behavior as his broken troops returned to Seminary Ridge after the disaster now called Pickett's charge almost makes the reader feel as if they were there.<br />Read this book with a small grain of salt, remembering that Fremantle is writing this book in England while the war is still in progress.  His anti-Irish bias kept getting under my skin but as with the rest of the book, you must keep in mind who is writing the narrative and when it was written. Overall however, I think the reader will find that Fremantle's observations are both entertaining and enlightening.skin but as with the rest of the book, you must keep in mind who is writing the narrative and when it was written. Overall however, I think the reader will find that Fremantle's observations are both entertaining and enlightening.	2002-12-31
US	51167656	R3MBEZ63F4CQDK	0451071484	869334119	The Complete Jack the Ripper	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not complete, but good.	Donald Rumbelow has an excellent writing style and this is an easy to read and understand book.  In particular, he does a great job of helping the reader understand the conditions in London's east end during this time of the old city's history. He also gives the reader a complete understanding of the limitations faced by police in the late 1800's.  If no one saw the killer commit the crime, it was almost impossible to make an arrest.<br />This is a fairly short book as compared to other ripper books but there is a wealth of information.  This would be an excellent book for someone just getting interested in the ripper for it is more of an introduction to the case than anything else.  Rumbelow never really makes any attempt to solve the case.  Instead he spends a lot of time showing the faults in other ripper writer's theroies.  I think it was Sherlock Holmes who said that if you get rid of all the things that were impossible, what was left was the answer, no matter how improbable.  I think that may be what Rumbelow is up to.<br />Truth be known, the section I enjoyed most was the chapter called \\"Beyond the Grave\\", which deals with ripper like killers who followed Jack.  The Yorkshire and Dusseldorf rippers and Jack the Stripper for example.  Their cases are not only highly interesting but also prove that the shadow of Jack the Ripper will be hanging over us for a long time.	2002-12-10
US	51167656	RWO2D4F3QY7B6	0709067496	534064593	Scottish Spectres	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A little depth at last.	Over the last several months I have read several books about Scottish ghosts and have found a big problem.  These books were very lacking in detail. There was very little about the possible cause of the haunting or its background.  There was also very little in the way of eyewitness accounts.  In many cases the whole haunting was delt with in one sentence.  Much too rapid fire to keep track of.<br />Scottish Spectres does a much better job of telling its story than these other books.  There are some rapid fire listings of haunted places but more often than not there is some detail.  Dane Love has divided the book into chapters based on both the kind of ghost involved and the haunted place.  This is a little hard to follow at times as for example one chapter deals with, \\"white ladies\\" while another involves, \\"haunted hotels.\\"  If for example a white lady haunts a hotel then Love has to decide which chapter to put her in and the reader is left with a hotel haunt in the white ladies chapter.  There isn't much of that though so its a small problem.<br />Most of the stories involve eyewitness accounts and many identify the probable spectre giving some history of this suspect's life and death.  I found very interesting the story of the Edinburgh home in which the new owners found a large, solid teak trunk.  The trunk had been sent from Sri Lanka and had their name on it even though it had been sent before they bought the house.<br />This is a fun book.  Well written and easy to read.  It could have been better but it is still the best book on the subject that I have found.	2002-11-06
US	51167656	R339FYAVJ20Y8Y	067974830X	23862310	Nathan Bedford Forrest: A Biography	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Finally, the real Forrest.	Jack Hurst has done a great service to the study of the civil war and to the legacy of General Forrest with this book.  Along with the genius of his tactics the reader will also find the flaws in the man but it is the real flaws you will find, not the myths and half-truths that are so common in any discussion of this subject.<br />One begins to understand Forrest as he reads this book.  It becomes very clear very early that Forrest has a very hot temper. It is a temper however that while quick to surface is just as quickly gone.  That is when Forrest comes into focus.  He is a man that in the heat of the moment would say and do things that he would regret.  Time and again he is pictured going about after one of these flashes of temper trying to mend fences.  In short, after Forrest had time to think about what he had said or done he almost always, in the end, did the right thing.  Fort Pillow I think is an example of this.  In his anger after the fort refused to give up he may well have unleashed his troops but there is good evidence that very shortly he rode into the fray and personally saved the lives of many Union troops, both black and white.  The Klan is, I think, another example of this.  Frustrated by the Brownlow government he seems to have saw the Klan as the only way to combat what was without a doubt a horrible regime.  As the Klan began to get out of hand though and he saw what it had become he ordered it disolved.  Frankly, it is probably lucky that Forrest was sought out to be Grand Wizard for the formation of such a group was almost inevetable and without someone of Forrest's stature at the top who could and did see the evil of the group, things might have been much worse.  Forrest indeed eneded up advocating rights for blacks that even few in the north talked about.<br />His war record needs little review.  Genius is a term often applied and one that is deserved.  His campaigns are kind of hard to follow since when he put the ,\\"skeer\\" into a foe he wasn't about to let the enemy gather his wits so the battle would be a running one that went on for miles and days.  Other reviewers have pointed out the need for maps and they are right.  As a native of Tennessee I had trouble keeping up with all of the place names that flew by so a reader from Oregon will be in deep trouble.  Still, even if you can't follow the battles well you will get a fairly good understanding of Forrest's tactics and the accounts are very readable.<br />If future editions add some maps this will be an easy five star choice and even without the maps it is a must read for the student of the civil war in the west.  You can't understand the war in the west without understanding Forrest and this book is the best I have read on the subject yet.wasn't about to let the enemy gather his wits so the battle would be a running one that went on for miles and days.  Other reviewers have pointed out the need for maps and they are right.  As a native of Tennessee I had trouble keeping up with all of the place names that flew by so a reader from Oregon will be in deep trouble.  Still, even if you can't follow the battles well you will get a fairly good understanding of Forrest's tactics and the accounts are very readable.<br />If future editions add some maps this will be an easy five star choice and even without the maps it is a must read for the student of the civil war in the west.  You can't understand the war in the west without understanding Forrest and this book is the best I have read on the subject yet.	2002-10-28
US	51167656	RM0RIWCVM92ZE	0764554166	983805900	London For Dummies (Dummies Travel)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Don't leave home without it.	We just returned from our first trip to the U.K. and this book was a lifesaver.  I bought London for Dummies several months before we left along with several other more well known guides but I ended up using this guide more than all of the others put together.  The advice on customs and the VAT saved me enough money to pay for the book several times over and made my trip back through U.S. customs a breeze.<br />The information in this book is very well organized and easy to follow.  Special tips are found all through the book and get you ready for a few things you might not expect.  I found that, mostly because of this book, I was able to travel around London as if I had been there many times.<br />If you are about to go to London for the first time don't go without this book.  Nothing can ruin a trip like getting to a new city and feeling completely lost and alone.  I never had that problem and I give a lot of credit to this book for that. Study it before you leave and be ready.  It is an easy and fun read and once you get to London you will be glad you took the time to be ready.	2002-10-24
US	51167656	R2B5C0J4TWWKGE	0312951132	165460204	Graveyard: More Terrifying Than Stephen King - Because It's True!	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Spooky!	If you are looking for a book about real haunts or if you just want a good book of ghost stories to send a chill up your spine this would be a great choice.  It is true that these are for the most part one person experences and the documentation is sparse but I still liked this book very much.  The writing style is very easy to read and draws the reader into the story.  This is a perfect book for a cool October evening.<br />The first section of the book takes its stories from Union Cemetery in Monroe, Connecticut while the rest of the stories come from, &quot;other graveyards.&quot;  The whole point of the book seems to be that much psychic energy exists in graveyards, some of it very bad energy.  I must admit that I have never liked the idea of going into a cemetery at night and I think most people feel that way too, even if they will not admit it.  This book banks on most people having that little fear of graveyards and it will bring out a goosebump or two.<br />If nothing else, this book doesn't cost much and its lots of fun.	2002-10-10
US	51167656	R1VZJ277DXAAHU	075092800X	217012359	The Great Feud: The Campbells & the Macdonalds	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Move over Hatfields.  The Campbells are Coming.	Oliver Thomson has done a fairly good job of telling the story of what is probably the greatest feud of all time.  He does a very good job of explaining why tension developed between the two great families and why they took the sides they did in various wars.  The story is a little shallow at times but for the most part he tells the story well.  One of the things he handles best is explaining the split between the Stewarts and the Campbells who had been long time allies, often against the MacDonalds. For some reason he keeps saying the various clans were involved in ethnic cleansing.  Scots were removing Scots to make room for sheep not killing off another ethnic group.  Hitler was involved in ethnic cleansing, not the Scots.<br />The biggest problem is that he handles the feud in the first half of the book.  The second half of the book is about as interesting as watching grass grow.  Thomson takes the clans into the rest of the world and for the most part just lists person after person with either surname who did anything at all.  One person is even mentioned who started a candy business.  For someone who is interested in the feud the second half of the book is a complete waste of time bearing no relation to the subject at all.  Even for a member of the Clan Campbell like myself it was for the most part a waste of time.<br />In short, the first half of this book is fairly good but the second half is awful.  First half - four stars.  Second half - no stars.  Total - 2 stars.	2002-10-05
US	51167656	R2UVM62PCVNT57	1899874054	951621675	A Wee Guide To The Haunted Castles Of Scotland (WEE Guides)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A ghost hunter's delight.	If you are not planning a trip to Scotland this is not a book you will find interesting.  There are 133 sites listed on 86 pages so there isn't much detail and the ghost stories are very limited.  If you are going to Scotland however, this book will give you a good start to planning your itinerary if you like to visit haunted sites.<br />For each site listed you get a short history of the castle and sometimes a short history of the ghost or ghosts.  Sometimes though the history of the haunting is much too brief.  In fact, sometimes the whole haunting is taken care of in one sentence. This is one aspect of the book I didn't care for.  I was also put off by there being lots of information about the facilities at some sites while no mention was made of visitor infomation at other sites.  Some of these castles are private and people still live there and on some occasions that is mentioned but a lot of the time there is NO visitor info or details about visitors being welcome or not.<br />Just a little more information would have made this a much better book.  Still it was worth the price and it will travel to Scotland with me.	2002-10-02
US	51167656	R2HVHCNYBPR9SI	0684865858	228469250	Look Away!: A History of the Confederate States of America	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Not Davis' best, but still good.	When one has read several books by the same writer there is a tendency to judge one book against another.  That was a problem I had while reading this book.  This book is not as well written or as well documented as Davis' other works although it is still much better than many books I have read.<br />The book begins with the secession of the States and their meeting in Montgomery to form a nation.  The delegates met with the mind set that in this new country there would be none of the political fights that had been such a problem in the old Union. They would all, &quot;be of one mind.&quot; From the beginning however the factions started to grow.  What would become the anti-Davis faction started as a bunch of former fire-eaters who were left out of the new government and grew to include even the Vice President.  These men, Rhett, Cobb, Toombs, Stephens, Foote, and Wigfall with egos the size of Texas did vast damage to the Confederacy all through the war.  Again and again Davis brings these men up as he looks at different issues Jefferson Davis and the State governments had to face.<br />These issues were many but most involved how far could the Confederate or State governments go while taking more and more control in order to win the war.  The army had to come first and the government began to simply take the things they needed and draft southern men to keep the ranks filled.  The States themselves became directly involved in the economy not only telling farmers and industry who they could sell to but what they could produce, and the price they could sell it for.  The Confederate and State governments actually began to run industry of their own.  As strange as it sounds the southern nation for the most part became an experiment in socialism and a welfare state.<br />There is little attention to great battles and generals.  This is a history of the Confederate people, not their army. The people who suffered and starved and who in the end gave up nearly all hope. Davis has indeed caught the mood of the south for in the end Robert E. Lee becomes a major figure in this book.  By then neither Jefferson Davis and his government or the Rhetts and Wigfalls mattered.  Robert E. Lee was the Confederacy to its people and what little hope they had, rested in him.<br />This is an important history of the Confederacy looking at areas that are seldom explored.  To really understand the civil war this is a side of the south that has to considered.  Thanks to Mr. Davis it will be.Davis has indeed caught the mood of the south for in the end Robert E. Lee becomes a major figure in this book.  By then neither Jefferson Davis and his government or the Rhetts and Wigfalls mattered.  Robert E. Lee was the Confederacy to its people and what little hope they had, rested in him. <br />This is an important history of the Confederacy looking at areas that are seldom explored.  To really understand the civil war this is a side of the south that has to considered.  Thanks to Mr. Davis it will be.	2002-09-28
US	51167656	RSSBSAQF7SJB7	0786703296	74963274	Robert the Bruce: King of Scots	Books	5	40	47	N	N	The Bruce Legacy.	Ronald McNair Scott in this work has given us a fast paced easy to read account of one of the greatest military leaders in history.  Robert the Bruce is not always appreciated in America because he lacks the Hollywood image that Mel Gibson has lent to William Wallace.  Wallace was no doubt a great hero of Scotland but it was Bruce who not only defeated the English but posed a very real threat to actually annex English territory.<br />Scott does have a tendency to state as fact that which is only theory or an educated guess but given the state of affairs in 13th and 14th century Scotland any other tact would have led to a huge and hard to read tome that would have added little to the general understanding of Bruce.  By deciding to write in this style Scott brings this great hero of Scotland to life for the reader and lets us see the greatness that was Robert The Bruce.<br />Bruce's early decisions during the Wallace wars are explained by Scottish politics.  Bruce's grandfather had laid claim to the Scottish throne but Edward I decided in favor of John Balliol, Lord of Galloway.  Wallace always fought in the name of King John making it very hard for any of the Bruce faction to lend their full support to the cause.  Once he established himself as King, Bruce faced the same problem from the Balliol faction.  This divided state of affairs could very well have doomed Scotland had not Bruce taken action.  He began with an action that seems to have haunted him for the rest of his life when he struck down the \\"Red\\" Comyn on the alter of Greyfriars church.  Slowly the rest of the Balliol faction was subdued until Bruce was the unchallenged King of Scots.<br />Scott manages to go into some detail of Bruce's battles with the English without getting the reader lost.  In fact, I was able to clearly understand what happened and as I was reading these accounts I could almost see what was going on.  Scott's ability to describe events with words is his greatest asset.  One feels as if he is actually there side by side with The Bruce.<br />This book is not the deep study of Robert The Bruce that some people may be looking for.  It is however a good place for any reader to begin to understand the history of Scotland.  After reading this book anyone who wishes to dig deeper will be ready for the challange.  For someone who is simply after a quick and easy to understand history of Robert The Bruce I doubt you will find a better source.as if he is actually there side by side with The Bruce.  <br />This book is not the deep study of Robert The Bruce that some people may be looking for.  It is however a good place for any reader to begin to understand the history of Scotland.  After reading this book anyone who wishes to dig deeper will be ready for the challange.  For someone who is simply after a quick and easy to understand history of Robert The Bruce I doubt you will find a better source.	2002-09-03
US	51167656	R1PIC58GPO0OU9	0806132582	632113974	The Tornado: Nature's Ultimate Windstorm	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Gone with the wind.	Lets start with the few negatives about this book.  Grazulis does use the term, &quot;I&quot; fairly often in this book.  This doesn't bother me as much as it does some people.  He has to use the first person as he explains what brought about his interest in tornadoes and he has been involved in much of the research he talks about.  The only real drawback I can find is that he gets a little too technical for the average reader on occasion.  Still, considering the complicated nature of his subject I think he does a fine job of getting his point across and helping someone like me began to understand these killer storms.<br />Grazulis leads us down the path of tornado history making stops along the way to point out interesting facts.  The reader is given stories of survival as well as tragedy.  We even get a story about the one of the 18th century's most famous scientists chasing on horseback after what may or may not have been a tornado.  I can just see Ben Franklin charging down the road in hot pursuit.  Grazulis also spends some time trashing some tornado myths and giving some safety tips.  There is also a very interesting chapter on tornadoes in other countries.  I have even begun to understand what straight line winds and downbursts are because of this book.<br />Best of all the reader will be treated to an inside look at the progress science has made in understanding and predicting tornadoes.  The new equipment, the new ideas, and the ever present danger of trying to get too close to a tornado to study it.  Science has come a long way since early April, 1974 when forecasters all over the eastern U.S. watched the &quot;Super Outbreak&quot; on surplus World War II radar.<br />No matter if you are a weather junkie or are just in awe of the power of nature I feel sure you will find this to be an interesting read.	2002-08-27
US	51167656	R1K8U2ZW42P7UK	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	7	7	N	N	McNasty	Schlosser's book reminds me of \\"The Jungle\\" and I wish it would have the sort of impact that Sinclair's book did.  It puts someone who likes hamburgers between a rock and a hard place. If you eat at a fast food joint you help feed the monster that industry has become.  On the other hand their beef is probably the cleanest you will find.  It seems that Jack in the Box almost went out of business when lots of people got sick because of their tainted burgers.  To their credit Jack in the Box went to the source of their problem an started demanding high standards and testing from the meatpacking industry.  Other fast food chains, fearing the same public relations nightmare Jack in the Box faced soon followed.  Did that mean the packers cleaned up their act?  No, they just don't sell the meat that fails the test to fast food chains anymore.  Guess whats at your grocery store.<br />This book is full of information about this industry from the farm to your tray.  Packing house workers who are killed and badly injured on a regular basis....Fake aroma and extra taste added so that the over processed food will have some taste. Teenage workers having to work hours of overtime without geeting paid for it. The way McDonalds and other fast food giants use our tax money to add to their profit margins.  And most shocking of all, the USDA buys low cost ground beef from packers that can't pass the tests of the fast food giants, for the school lunch program.<br />Find out in this book that the Federal government can force Detroit to recall defective cars but can't force a meatpacker to recall meat that is contaminated.  Congress is at fault and they should be ashamed of themselves.  \\"There is too much government regulation\\", cry conservatives.... Think it is an isolated problem?  Read this book and think again.  Union busting, inhuman working conditions, and nasty meat being sold to the public.  Upton Sinclair must be spinning in his grave.	2002-08-15
US	51167656	RE2L8VDO4IN1	0375700773	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great book about a great campaign.	Looking at the 1948 election one always wonders how Harry Truman did it.  Not only did the polls show him way behind, not only did the Republicans as usual have more money, but Truman's party was split three ways.  Zachary Karabell not only makes Truman's victory make sense, but he does so in a very readable way.<br />First of all, the Wallace and Thrumond movements probably helped Truman much more than they hurt him.  Wallace was so far left that Truman was able to move himself far enough to the left to take back most of Wallace's voters while still looking like a moderate to most voters in comparison to Wallace.  Thurmond and his Dixiecrats actually suprised Truman and his staff.  They had assumed Truman could push for civil rights and that the south would grumble and complain but in the end would have no choice but to support Truman.  Still, the black votes Truman picked up ended up being far more important to Truman than the few votes Thurmond actually took from him.  Black voters were still not a block that could be counted on for Democrats in 1948. In the long run however, those people in the south who voted for Thurmond in 1948 found that voting against the Democratic candidate was fairly easy and the &quot;solid south&quot; would in a few decades be solidly Republican.<br />Truman and his staff decided the polished Harry wasn't working so it was decided to let Truman be Truman.  Being a Missouri farmer there was a lot of populism in Truman and it came out in 1948. People then and Karabell now accuse Truman of promoting class conflict.  In 1948 and today that is always the charge against anyone who dares to attack the greedy few who run Wall Street and for the most part, the country.  I am always proud when one of our leaders tries to point out to the average American what is really being done to them and find myself at odds with Karabell on this point but it does not hurt the overall book and the reader should make up his on mind about Truman's populism.<br />Dewey carried scars from the 1944 campaign into 1948.  In '44 he had attacked Roosevelt, probably too much and was convinced that was what cost him the election.  So, in 1948 he refused to attack Truman at all.  No matter what Truman said about him Dewey said nothing.  Dewey in fact was probably the first candidate of the television era.  He said nothing that might offend anyone.  By the end of the campaign there were warning signs of a Truman come back but Dewey and his people refused to notice.  One of Dewey's top backers, E. F. Hutton tried to warn Dewey that if he didn't start to respond to Truman's attacks he was going to get beat.  This book is well worth five stars for this one line.  &quot;E.F. Hutton spoke, but no one listened.&quot;<br />Buy this book.  When someone complains that today's milk toast campaigns are too dirty hand them this work and tell them to read it.  We need more campaigns like 1948 where there is a clear choice for the voter.  Our system is drowning in Dewey like candidates who refuse to offend anyone.  No wonder people don't vote.  Before you hand Karabell's book to someone else be sure to read it yourself.  Love Truman or hate him, this book will help you understand him.r />Dewey carried scars from the 1944 campaign into 1948.  In '44 he had attacked Roosevelt, probably too much and was convinced that was what cost him the election.  So, in 1948 he refused to attack Truman at all.  No matter what Truman said about him Dewey said nothing.  Dewey in fact was probably the first candidate of the television era.  He said nothing that might offend anyone.  By the end of the campaign there were warning signs of a Truman come back but Dewey and his people refused to notice.  One of Dewey's top backers, E. F. Hutton tried to warn Dewey that if he didn't start to respond to Truman's attacks he was going to get beat.  This book is well worth five stars for this one line.  &quot;E.F. Hutton spoke, but no one listened.&quot;<br />Buy this book.  When someone complains that today's milk toast campaigns are too dirty hand them this work and tell them to read it.  We need more campaigns like 1948 where there is a clear choice for the voter.  Our system is drowning in Dewey like candidates who refuse to offend anyone.  No wonder people don't vote.  Before you hand Karabell's book to someone else be sure to read it yourself.  Love Truman or hate him, this book will help you understand him.	2002-08-04
US	51167656	RKNBHKIFN84W4	0253210585	783785154	Winfield Scott Hancock: A Soldiers Life	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Hancock the superb.	There is little doubt that Winfield Scott Hancock should get far more press than he gets.  In reading about the Civil War in the east one time and again runs into the name Hancock.  He was there for most of the major battles and he and his men could almost always be counted on when most of the rest of the army could not be.  Between the movie &quot;Gettysburg&quot; and this fine book maybe Hancock will get some of the credit that should be his.<br />David Jordan has put together a book that is both informative and very easy to read.  In fact, I would call it a real page turner.<br />Since Hancock's politics without a doubt held him back both during and after the war Jordan handles that early on by introducing the reader to Hancock's father, an avid Democrat. Hancock's views were set early on and he stuck by his beliefs in spite of Republican domination of both the government and the army.  The reader is led through hancock's life and is also treated to many funny stories about Hancock many of which include his close friend Harry Heath who would lead his Confederates toward Gettysburg and kick off the great battle.  We also find out that Hancock was one of the best cursers in the Union army and that he and General Zook could be counted on to lighten the mood of the second corps every so often with a heated exchange of some of the finest swear words known to man.<br />Jordan does a good job of recounting Hancock's performance in battle without getting to stuck in the mire of names and regiment numbers.  He also manages to handle Hancock's political campaigns both for the Democratic Presidential nomination and as his party's candidate without getting his reader lost in the jungle of politicans most of which the average reader would not have heard of.<br />It is very hard to paint a picture of Hancock's contribution to a battle without getting the reader lost in detail or simply putting them to sleep.  Jordan walks that fine line as well as most and better than many but he does fall a little short of giving us enough detail.  Just a little bit more information on some of these battles would have made this a far better book.  Still, if one must fall to one side of that fine line or the other Jordan picked the right side to land on.<br />The lack of detail by itself did not cost this book a star and in spite of this problem I would probably awarded Jordan five stars if he had not repeated the old myth that Harry Heath was on his way to Gettysburg looking for shoes.  A man who could turn out this superb book should have known better.he does fall a little short of giving us enough detail.  Just a little bit more information on some of these battles would have made this a far better book.  Still, if one must fall to one side of that fine line or the other Jordan picked the right side to land on.<br />The lack of detail by itself did not cost this book a star and in spite of this problem I would probably awarded Jordan five stars if he had not repeated the old myth that Harry Heath was on his way to Gettysburg looking for shoes.  A man who could turn out this superb book should have known better.	2002-07-25
US	51167656	R1J8U36UZDZFML	185158952X	88211307	Haunted Scotland	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Short on Substance!	I must admit that I bought this book to help me plan a trip to Scotland.  While there I hope to stop by some of the more haunted spots and maybe take a ghost tour or two.  This book is very full of information but is of little use as a tourist guide.  Adams has done a lot of research and his style is very easy to read but he jumps around too much.  The few haunts he devotes any space to at all are places the average tourist won't make it to.  Holyroodhouse which is a prime tourist spot is mentioned in one sentence and then only to say it is, &quot;reputedly haunted&quot;.<br />The reader will find this book is almost like a sandwich.  The first chapter and the last two chapters are by far the best in the book.  Reading the first chapter in bed one night I actually got a little spooked.  That is the test of a good ghost book.  The rest of the book however keeps the reader so busy trying to figure out which haunting Adams is talking about that the spooky nature of the stories can't sink in.  The problem is that the reader is hit with rapid fire stories with little or no depth. One paragraph can be about a haunt in the highlands and the next paragraph may be set in the borders with no real effort to mark the change in area or story for that matter.<br />This book would have been so much better if Adams had attempted far less stories and had given some depth to the ones he used. Still, it might serve a a good place to start if one is interested in Adams' subject.  Kind of like a brief survey course.	2002-07-14
US	51167656	R319AIE1IQ7X4O	0312060270	123574364	Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream: The Most Revealing Portrait of a President and Presidential Power Ever Written	Books	5	100	110	N	N	LBJ at his best and worst.	Doris Kearns Goodwin has done a great service to history with this book.  All too often members of any important person's staff take a far different approach to this type of project.  Those who know their subject in ways the rest of us can never know that person often hide all of the warts and paint their former boss as a near saint.  Not Goodwin.  In this book the reader will get a look at the whole LBJ, good and bad.<br />Goodwin starts with Johnson's childhood and may get a little carried away with psychoanalytical insights including a reference to Freud.  Her conclusions may be right on target but as she herself admits most of her conclusions were based on Johnson's tales of his childhood and he tended to remember his past as he wanted it to be instead of as it was.  That same fault would haunt him as President as he convinced himself everything was fine when things were far from fine.<br />We get the first real look at the LBJ who would dominate the Senate while he is in college.  There he works long and hard to overthrow the old guard and make himself the most powerful student on campus.  The same tactics he used in college would make him the most powerful man in the Senate and the most powerful Democrat in the country while Ike was President.  It seems that Johnson assumed he could use those same tactics yet again to make him as V.P. the real power behind JFK.  Instead he found that Bobby Kennedy held that position and wasn't about to move over for Johnson.<br />Somehow it didn't sink in to Johnson that if what had worked so well in the Senate didn't work for the Vice President it wasn't likely to work for the President.  In fact, as Goodwin points out, the very qualities that made him a great leader in the Senate often had the oppisite effect in the White House.  For example, his secret way of doing business in the Senate had served him well. Once he was in the White House he decided if he could keep the American people from finding out what was really going on in Vietnam he could keep the Great Society going strong. With or without the public's knowledge the simple economics of the situation buried the Great Society.<br />There are many other examples like this in Goodwin's book which makes Johnson's failure much more understandable.  Needless to say, if you are interested in the Vietnam era, the Presidency, or the civil rights movement this book is a must. Or if you are a baby boomer like myself this book will help you understand what was going on around you during your childhood.  Many works by scholars of Goodwin's stature are dry and hard to read but I think anyone will find this is a very readable book.oing on in Vietnam he could keep the Great Society going strong. With or without the public's knowledge the simple economics of the situation buried the Great Society.<br />There are many other examples like this in Goodwin's book which makes Johnson's failure much more understandable.  Needless to say, if you are interested in the Vietnam era, the Presidency, or the civil rights movement this book is a must. Or if you are a baby boomer like myself this book will help you understand what was going on around you during your childhood.  Many works by scholars of Goodwin's stature are dry and hard to read but I think anyone will find this is a very readable book.	2002-07-10
US	51167656	R1II7X1272J4G9	070906795X	55072975	The Encyclopedia of the Loch Ness Monster	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Do I believe?	Is there something large and unknown in Loch Ness?  I really don't know and I may never get an answer.  I do like to read about such things though and this book is as handy as a shirt pocket.  Harrison's work is not a book to sit down and read nor was it intended to be.  It is a reference guide and will be of help to anyone reading any study of Nessie.  Harrison makes no claim that there is a plesiosaur in the loch but leaves an opinion up to his readers.  He is firm in his opinion however that in the minds of many people in the area Nessie is very real and gives us stories to back up his thesis.<br />To make this book even more complete Harrison goes out of his way in the bibliography to point out the better books on the subject and the point of view these writers take.  Even better, he has a page devoted to The Loch Ness Monster Research Society.  On this page Harrison tells about the aims of the Society and even gives the address of the Membership Secretary in case the reader wants to join up.<br />I only took one star from this book because of what I don't know. I assume all the information that one would need is here but this is the only book I have looked at about the subject so I really don't know.  Thanks to Harrison however, I now know what books to look for.	2002-07-01
US	51167656	R3UQ0CSNWDQRLF	185158823X	696296473	William Wallace: Brave Heart	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Scotland Go Bragh!	Since the Mel Gibson movie came out William Wallace has gained a following well outside of Scotland.  It is nice to get a look at the true \\"Braveheart\\" instead of the Hollywood version.  The very best thing about this book is how easy it is to read.  Not being at all familar with Scottish history during this period I was afraid I would quickly become lost.  Much to my delight that was not the case in fact I was able to follow what was going on with very little problem.  The only real problem I have with the book is that MacKay often refers to someone once by their name and the next time by their title.  For example the future king is sometimes refered to as Robert Bruce and sometimes as the Earl of Carrick.  It is hard enough to keep up with all of the names thrown at you in this book without having to keep up with a name AND a title for each person.<br />While reading this book keep in mind that Mr. MacKay has little materal to work with from the time period.  Most of his research is taken from materal that dates well after Wallace's death.  Still by looking at this material along with what records do exist from the period he does a good job of telling us what probably did happen.  In fact, this is probably as close as we will ever get to the real story.  That is unless new records are found which is very possible.  MacKay points out several places where in the future new records may be found including Rome where Wallace may have visited Pope Boniface VIII looking for aid for Scotland.  It is known as a fact that King Edward did get a letter from the Pope about his treatment of the Scots.<br />This is a great read for anyone interested in Scottish history or anyone who enjoyed the Gibson movie.  The reader will find for example that Wallace's wife was not killed before he began his raids.  She was killed in fact while protecting Wallace.  Let the movie make you wonder.  Let this book fill in the gaps.  Even for someone not into history at all this will be a joy to read.read.	2002-06-25
US	51167656	R3I2LNYD1RCE1S	080784750X	693252559	Revolutionary Brotherhood: Freemasonry and the Transformation of the American Social Order, 1730-1840 (Published by the Omohundro Institute of Early ... and the University of North Carolina Press)	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Very Worthwhile.	Steven Bullock has added a great deal to the study of Masonry with this book.  If nothing else were accomplished he makes clear to the Freemason the true difference between ancient and modern Masonry. This book is also a fine study of the social history of the United States in its early years.  Often overlooked by historians, the importance of the Freemasons in the early republic is finally looked at in depth.<br />Freemasonry often claims a large role in the advent of the Revolution which according to Bullock does not seem to be the case.  On the other hand its importance to the American cause during the Revolution can hardly be overstated.  Southern planters like Washington and Lee had little in common New Englanders such as General Greene, a Quaker from Connecticut.  They had even less in common with the likes of Lafayette and von Steuben.  Their one common link was Freemasonry.  It seems that the officer corps of the American army forged its strong bonds around the fraternity.  Not just the generals but  many officers of all ranks seem to have bonded through Masonry.  Military lodges spread the fraternity through out the army and soon some regiments actually marched with the officers wearing their Masonic badges of office.<br />Freemasonry as the title of this book suggests seems to have been important in the transformation of the American social order after the war.  Masonry acted somewhat as a school for democrats but the fraternity itself began to grow into an elite order of &quot;nobility&quot; that almost became a new aristocracy.  This status would help bring on the antimasons as the brotherhood which had helped mold early America's social order failed to change with changing times.  The more open democracy brought on by the age of Jackson made a seeming aristocracy like the Masons seem out of place. In an odd twist, the father of this age was himself an active Mason. Jackson in fact served two terms as Grand Master of Tennessee.<br />There are only two small things about this book that I can fault. The writing style as is often the case with history professors is just a tad dull.  The wealth of information to be found tends to make up for the style though.  The more serious problem is the manner in which Bullock decides the Masons grew out of the stone masons guilds.  There are many ideas about the origins of Masonry that deserve more attention.  Bullock may well have taken the true path but he fails to document his conclusion in the way he documents his other insights.<br />Finally, this book which was written as a history offers important warnings for today's fraternity.  As the brotherhood failed to change with the times during the antimasonry frenzy and almost died the changes in society today are also slowly killing Masonry.  The fraternity must take the warnings given us in this book and learn from our past mistakes.  Change is hard but sometimes necessary.small things about this book that I can fault. The writing style as is often the case with history professors is just a tad dull.  The wealth of information to be found tends to make up for the style though.  The more serious problem is the manner in which Bullock decides the Masons grew out of the stone masons guilds.  There are many ideas about the origins of Masonry that deserve more attention.  Bullock may well have taken the true path but he fails to document his conclusion in the way he documents his other insights.<br />Finally, this book which was written as a history offers important warnings for today's fraternity.  As the brotherhood failed to change with the times during the antimasonry frenzy and almost died the changes in society today are also slowly killing Masonry.  The fraternity must take the warnings given us in this book and learn from our past mistakes.  Change is hard but sometimes necessary.	2002-06-20
US	51167656	R13G5WM77ACLE1	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	20	20	N	N	McCullough is a National Treasure!	This is the third book by David McCullough that I have read and he has never let me down.  His research is extensive as usual. It is his ability to tell his story in such a was as to make history come alive however that makes David McCullough such a treasure.<br />The book starts out introducing the reader to several citizens of Johnstown.  Some survive, others do not.  For those who do survive the stories of their experences as the flood washed over them are amazing.  You will be introduced to six year old Gertrude Quinn later in the book.  She gets in trouble earlier that awful day for sitting on the porch with her feet in the water.  To my suprise I found that the water was already past the flood stage in Johnstown before the dam broke.  Gertrude's father was very worried about the rising water and had ordered his children to stay inside.  For going out on the porch she got a couple of &quot;quick spanks&quot; and was hurried inside.  When the real flood hit Gertrude's house was destroyed and she found herself floating on a mattress all alone.  Soon a small white house floated by with a man clinging to the chimney.  She called to him to help her but he ignored her after which she yelled at him that he was a terrible man and added, &quot;I'll never help you.&quot; Gertrude did survive. These are the kind of stories that kept me reading this book long after I should have been asleep.<br />The dam itself had existed for years but had broken in a minor way once before and had never been rebuilt.  That is until the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club was formed.  The dam was repared in a sorry way by the club's founder Benjamin Ruff.  He even failed to replace the missing discharge pipes so that the lake's level could not be regulated. The press may have been too critical of Ruff's dam after it broke, one reporter calling it a &quot;mud pile&quot;.  Still the fact remains that the part of the dam that was swept away was the part Ruff had rebuilt.  The old portion of the dam held firm.<br />There was much talk in Johnstown prior to the flood about the dam breaking.  So much so that people had started to take it for granted that the dam was safe and ignored what little warning they did get.<br />If you are at all interested is American history, are a Weather Channel fan who sits in front of the tube waiting for some natural disaster, or if you like to sit up late and watch old disaster movies you will love this book.  Even if you don't fit into any of those descriptions you would still probably like this book.  Don't like history at all?  This is like no other history book you will ever read.  Give it a try!of the dam held firm. <br />There was much talk in Johnstown prior to the flood about the dam breaking.  So much so that people had started to take it for granted that the dam was safe and ignored what little warning they did get.  <br />If you are at all interested is American history, are a Weather Channel fan who sits in front of the tube waiting for some natural disaster, or if you like to sit up late and watch old disaster movies you will love this book.  Even if you don't fit into any of those descriptions you would still probably like this book.  Don't like history at all?  This is like no other history book you will ever read.  Give it a try!	2002-05-28
US	51167656	R1CSFO20LL1006	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Top notch.	Mr. Brands has told the tale of Benjamin Franklin and told it well. One would think that if you take into account the life that Franklin lived the story would be hard to make a mess of. However this is without a doubt the best Franklin biography I have come into contact with.<br />Brands takes his readers on many trips along with Franklin from his escape from his native Boston, where a free thinker like Franklin was somewhat out of place, to his trips to Europe. Although it may be Franklin's own letters that give much of the life to this work, Brands has taken great pains to do his research. One can look in this book and find the Franklin with a heart of gold and the Franklin who exibited great affection for his wife and children. Parts of Franklin that are often ignored.<br />This book is a must read if one has read David McCullough's \\"John Adams\\". Mr. Brands writing style is not quite as good as McCullough's but he also seems less inclined to the subject worship that one finds in McCullough's books. By reading this book along with the Adams book the reader will get a well rounded look at Franklin and Adams time in Paris. Franklin may not have worked as hard as Adams but he knew what he was doing and despite, almost as much as because of Adams, France came into the war. There seems to be very few things that Franklin tried that he was not good at.<br />The only real problem I have with this book is Mr. Brands' continued use of quotes in a foreign language. That is all well and good if there is a translation for those of us who do not read French or Latin but if you can't handle several languages you will sometimes have trouble picking up what Franklin means to say.<br />Still, this is a top notch book and should be read by anyone with an interest in American history.	2002-05-21
US	51167656	R2L27FT674T8D9	0380805715	450837062	An Honest President: The Life and Presidencies of Grover Cleveland	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Could have been so much better.	The very best thing about this book is how easy it is to read.  Mr. Jeffers has done a great job of writing and this book is not in the least bit dull.  His lack of footnotes are explained and he does do a fairly good job of adding sources into the text.  This book does a nice job of giving the reader a quick look at the life of a man who does deserve more attention than he gets.<br />Now we get to the problems with the book.  First of all since Mr. Jeffers takes most of his book from the works of other men who have written about Cleveland there is little new here.  Still, since most people aren't going to pick up and read one of these massive works he draws from, they might read this and Jeffers may indeed bring his subject to light for many who know little of Cleveland.<br />As Jeffers points out Cleveland did face a serious problem in that he was the first elected Democrat in the White House since Buchanan.  Jeffers in fact says he was the only Democrat since Buchanan which I am sure would suprise Andrew Johnson.  The point is though that Cleveland's party in 1857 was busy with north vs. south issues and when Cleveland went into office they weren't real sure of where the party should stand on anything except tariffs.  Cleveland a &quot;Bourbon Democrat&quot; found himself at odds with many in his party as it began to grow into its present progressive form.  As with many other of Cleveland's faults Jeffers pays no attention to the part the President played in a split that would cost the Democrats the White House for sixteen years.<br />Finally, Jeffers never seems to be able to draw the reader into the life of Grover Cleveland.  One never really feels as if he knows Cleveland.  The reader will began to like &quot;Big Steve&quot; as he was called in his youth but I never felt as if I really knew the man.  If you are looking for a quick read on Cleveland this is the book to read.  If you want details and the sour with the sweet look elsewhere.	2002-04-03
US	51167656	RKO7BVMWJBYZ1	0806126671	791697083	A Righteous Cause: The Life of William Jennings Bryan	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A very good biography of Bryan.	The Democratic party William Jennings Bryan took control of in 1896 is a far cry from that same party today. The person most responsible for this change is Bryan. As the book points out Bryan was no intellectual giant; but how many of America's leaders have been? To quote Mr. Cherny, to Bryan \\"Expertise counted for less than a good heart and a principled outlook.\\" The \\"Great Commoner\\" saw things in black and white, good vs. evil and when he had decided what was right he took up cause after cause with a zeal not often found among politicans.<br />It is often said that the proof is in the pudding, and the proof of Bryan's sweeping influence can be found during the New Deal as one after another his ideas were passed into law. He could of course be wrong as one of his pet projects prohibition and his unfortunate trip to Dayton show. On the other hand one has to wonder how much less the depression would have hurt the common people if more of Bryan's ideas had been made into law before 1929. Like him or not William Jennings Bryan has had more influence on American public policy than at least half of the men who won presidential elections.<br />As for this particular book. It is very well written and keeps the reader's interest. It is on the short side but provides a very good overview of Bryan's life and carear. The only reason I took away one star was because it is not well documented. No footnotes are to be found and in places they are badly needed. Otherwise this is a very good work dealing with one of America's greats.	2002-03-24
US	51167656	R2MHFK6TYIOITL	0306810220	62415483	Reelecting Lincoln: The Battle For The 1864 Presidency	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding!	For a history buff this is a must read, especially if you are a Civil War fanatic.  On the other hand, those who are not really into history or politics might just enjoy this book also.  The twists and turns of the plot, the shouting matches, the suspense, and the knife in the back tactics of some of the main players make this story almost worthy of being a daytime soap.  The only thing missing is the sex.<br />Many readers will find it hard to believe that in 1864 Abraham Linclon was not the beloved figure he is today.  Not only was he a target for the Democrats but also came under heavy fire from many in his own party.  Had not Sherman, Farragut, and Sheridan given the Union great wins on the field in the Fall of 1864 it is quite possible that Lincoln would have lost the election.  Still more probable is that if the Democrats themselves had not made major mistakes in their platform and choice for Vice President, George McCellan would have been the 17th President of the United States.  The trials Lincoln faced within his own party makes one wonder just how much better he would have done than did Johnson during reconstruction.<br />John Waugh does a masterful job of telling his story.  He keeps the book interesting from cover to cover and almost makes the reader feel they are there.  Of special note is his ability to help the reader keep the players in this story straight.  Many people who were prominate in this campaign are somewhat lost in history but Waugh never confuses the reader as he weaves them in and out of his text.  I also found it very interesting how he pointed out the similar trials Jefferson Davis faced in Richmond.<br />The most amazing thing is that elections were held at all during such a crisis.  It is a credit to the leaders of both the Union and the Confederacy that they never really thought about not holding elections right on schedule. Thanks to Mr. Waugh for reminding us just how dear our form of government is.  Thanks also for an outstanding book.ding book.	2002-03-20
US	51167656	R2085G76JIDZP3	087131732X	259229304	A Pilgrim's Path: Freemasonry and the Religious Right	Books	5	70	75	N	N	A must for Masons and their families!	I have over the years read several books on Freemasonry.  There are other works which are much longer and go into much more detail but page for page this is probably one of the best books ever written about or for Masons.  Furthermore it would be a perfect read for any man about to join the Brotherhood, and his family, especially his wife, should read it as soon as he is finished.  John Robinson writes in a style that not only can be understood by someone who has never been exposed to Masonry but it also holds the total interest of someone who has not only been a Mason for years but who grew up going to Lodge functions.<br />Robinson spends the first section of the book taking on the Pat Robertson's and other Anti-Masons of the world.  He has without a doubt spent a lot of time making a study of Anti-Masonic writings for he is able to take their arguments one at a time and expose the deception and outright lies they make a living on.  For example, Pat Robertson, James Holly and others like them take a document credited to Albert Pike which makes it look like Pike if not all Masons do indeed worship Lucifer. This document was in fact written by a man named Leo Taxil who would later freely admit he made the whole thing up and that Pike had nothing to do with it.  Taxil in fact took great delight in telling people how he had pulled the wool over their eyes and had made a fortune in so doing. Robertson in his book \\"A New World Order\\" attributes this document to Pike.  Either he didn't research his work too well or he simply didn't care about the truth.  Maybe lies are more profitable.<br />Finally, Robinson delivers several great ideas to help Masonry not only survive but grow.  Several of the mistaken ideas he mentions that he has heard from Masons themselves I have heard also.  As he points out, to exclude your family from your Masonic life is to invite problems.  Masons everywhere should listen to his advice and Masonry can't help but benefit.<br />In short, if you are curious about Masonry or already have a bad impression of Masonry but still have an open mind, read this book.  If you are a Mason this book can make your Masonic life much more rich.re curious about Masonry or already have a bad impression of Masonry but still have an open mind, read this book.  If you are a Mason this book can make your Masonic life much more rich.	2002-03-08
US	51167656	R1H7E76ZA3KZGO	0826210341	497594202	The Democrats: From Jefferson to Clinton (Series; 14)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	A subjest too broad for one book.	From the start one thing needs to be made very clear about this book.  It is a nice read for a Democrat, especially a partisan Democrat like myself.  My Republican friends on the other hand would, I'm afraid find very little interesting about this book. Simply put, this is a very one sided view of history.  Democrats tend to be pictured in the best possible light from page one.  This is not to say that Mr. Rutland has not done his homework for he has.  I don't think he ever set out to write an impartial historical epic.  What he seems to have intended is basicly a survey type textbook for Democrats.  If that was his goal he has accomplished it.  Someone looking for a quick political history of the United States told from the Democratic point of view will find it here.<br />The simple fact is that Mr. Rutland took upon himself a rather large task in writing a history of the Democratic party.  To do this task justice one would have to turn out a work that would rival in length the volumes written by Shelby Foote on the Civil War.  In fact, this subject would probably require even more volumes since the subject covers over two hundred years of history. As it is the book in its 241 pages is only able to deal in the most superficial way with its subject.<br />Still this book does a fair job of following America's oldest party from its roots as Jefferson looks to a nation of farmers to today's urban America.  Along the way we see the Democrats changing to become the party of the common man and the underdog. We see the party begin to take its present form in 1896 as William Jennings Bryan and his populists take control of the convention.  We see more change in 1912 with the nomination of the progressive Woodrow Wilson.  Then in 1932 FDR comes along and the Democratic party is forever changed.  Old Democratic issues like tariffs and free silver give way to civil rights and labor relations. The direction of the party continues on the course set by Roosevelt as Harry Truman takes over and then LBJ sets off an a path of sweeping social change that for good or bad forever changes the United States. Oddly, the book gives little credit for the present positions of the Democratic party to JFK.<br />There are also a few places in the book where Mr. Rutland's facts are wrong.  For example he states that in the election of 1896 William McKinley took T. Roosevelt with him to Washington as his Vice President when in fact T.R. wasn't on the ticket until 1900. For the most part however his facts do seem straight and he covers the subject as well as could be expected in such a short book.<br />Overall, the book could have been more in depth and such a large subject should probably never have been undertaken.  I remember in high school english I always tried to choose a very broad topic for any paper I had to write because I figured it would be easy to turn out twenty pages that way.  My teacher always called me on my plan though and I had to narrow it down.  Maybe Mr. Rutland needed a good high school english teacher to make him do the same here.<br />On the other hand it is hard to study American history without a study of the Democrats.  The party of Jefferson has been here through most of our history. So while this book gives one a quick look at the history of one party it also for the most part does the same for American history.  Its not a waste of time to read this book by any means but it is more gravy than meat.takes over and then LBJ sets off an a path of sweeping social change that for good or bad forever changes the United States. Oddly, the book gives little credit for the present positions of the Democratic party to JFK.  <br />There are also a few places in the book where Mr. Rutland's facts are wrong.  For example he states that in the election of 1896 William McKinley took T. Roosevelt with him to Washington as his Vice President when in fact T.R. wasn't on the ticket until 1900. For the most part however his facts do seem straight and he covers the subject as well as could be expected in such a short book.<br />Overall, the book could have been more in depth and such a large subject should probably never have been undertaken.  I remember in high school english I always tried to choose a very broad topic for any paper I had to write because I figured it would be easy to turn out twenty pages that way.  My teacher always called me on my plan though and I had to narrow it down.  Maybe Mr. Rutland needed a good high school english teacher to make him do the same here.  <br />On the other hand it is hard to study American history without a study of the Democrats.  The party of Jefferson has been here through most of our history. So while this book gives one a quick look at the history of one party it also for the most part does the same for American history.  Its not a waste of time to read this book by any means but it is more gravy than meat.	2002-03-06
US	51167656	RW9JIF5005JDH	0151005648	68905596	An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Remarkable effort.	As Jefferson Davis was being taken to Augusta to be placed on a ship after his arrest a young Georgia boy stood and watched the President pass.  That young boy would some fifty years later sink into a political mire due to the same personality flaw that Jefferson Davis exibited so clearly in 1865.  Neither Jefferson Davis or Woodrow Wilson were ever able to admit defeat or that they might be wrong.  This attidude cost Wilson his League of Nations and could have caused terrible additional suffering in the South had Davis not been forced to finally admit defeat.<br />William C. Davis gives us a wonderful look at the Confederate government during its last days in Richmond and on to the final escape of two of its top officals to England while the President was chained in prison.  We get a view of Davis as he moved to carry on the war by whatever means, never accepting that the &quot;cause&quot; was lost.  We also see Sec. of War Breckinridge trying to stop Davis' madness and checking the President's plans at every turn. I doubt Davis could have carried on the war even without Breckinridge's efforts but the man from Kentucky has to be given credit for looking to the South's future and the Confederacy's legacy at a time when the end could have well been the farce he feared.<br />Two of the more interesting parts of the book show both Breckinridge's skill and his and the rest of these historical figures human nature.  In the first instance it is amazing just how close Breckinridge came in dealing with Sherman to gaining for the South a peace that no one could have ever thought possible.  The Sec. of War almost got the South back in the Union with no sanction except the loss of slavery.  Davis himself seemed shocked at the terms Breckinridge and Sherman worked out. The other story from this book that sticks in one's mind is the sight of the President, Sec. of War, Postmaster General, and other top Confederate officals down in the dirt playing marbles. These men were indeed human.<br />Finally, I rather liked the stories of the escape paths taken by Benjaman and Breckinridge. While it added little to the point of the book except to show Breckinridge's strong desire to get to England and settle as many of the Confederacy's debts as possible in an honorable manner it was still a study in endurance.<br />Bravo Mr. Davis.  This book is well worth all five stars I gave it.d human.<br />Finally, I rather liked the stories of the escape paths taken by Benjaman and Breckinridge. While it added little to the point of the book except to show Breckinridge's strong desire to get to England and settle as many of the Confederacy's debts as possible in an honorable manner it was still a study in endurance.<br />Bravo Mr. Davis.  This book is well worth all five stars I gave it.	2002-02-28
US	51167656	R1I4090KM9OEIJ	0553212451	537609961	The Jungle (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Laissez-faire exposed.	There are without a doubt better novels than \\"The Jungle\\". A great novel was not Sinclair's aim however. His aim was to point out the vile conditions that existed among working Americans in the early twentieth century. Conditions that were so awful that a visit to some workers in New York a few years before this book came out began to change young Theodore Roosevelt from a conservative to a progressive. Along the way Sinclair shocked the American public with the filth they were buying as quality meat.<br />Sinclair heaps horror after horror on Jurgis and his family. Almost to the point of overkill but again this was ment to be a work that shocked America and like \\"Uncle Tom's Cabin\\" before it \\"The Jungle\\" painted a worse case picture. Unregulated capitalism was exposed as the beast it was and still to an extent is with words like, \\"there was no place in it where a man counted for anything against a dollar.\\" Sinclair was not out to improve the quality of food but that is what this book is most credited with. His real intent was to promote Socialism and in that to some extent he failed. However fear of the radical change Sinclair was after prompted many progressive reforms. Better a little change than a revolution.<br />In short, if you are looking for a great novel look elsewhere. Still, one needs to read this book for a look at where unregulated laissez-faire capitalism leads. As the calls increase to do away with government involvement in the regulation of business this book becomes more and more something that every American should read. Greed is a powerful thing and this book shows just how far some people will go in the quest for money. Powerful at times and sometimes a little off course this work by Upton Sinclair should always serve as a reminder of what was and what might be again.	2002-02-21
US	51167656	R2P17IWYUW4GWL	1558535438	263988108	Cold, Cold Hand: Stories of Ghosts and Haunts from the Appalachian Foothills	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good collection of folklore!	This or any other review of this book should start out with a disclaimer.  If you are looking for a book of investigated ghost sightings like those by Hans Holzer and others like him this is not the book for you. There are some spooky tales in here but they are indeed the type of stories that as a child I heard at the feet of my Grandmother and aunts.  If there are some eight year olds in you family that like ghost stories but you don't want to really scare them; this is your book.<br />The best thing about this book is that it does exactly what it sets out to do.  The folklore of the southern highlands is beginning to fade away but this book puts it in writing so that it will never be forgotten.  The writing style is superior and it is sometimes hard to put the book down.  Never doubt that this book is well worth the price.<br />I took away one star from what would otherwise be a five star book for the chapter about the UFO.  I don't buy ghost books to read about UFOs just like I wouldn't buy a UFO book to read about Big Foot.  In this chapter one of the writers suggests that just maybe we are seeing aliens when we think we are seeing ghosts in Confederate uniforms.  The fifth star went away when I couldn't figure out why an alien would be wearing a Confederate uniform.<br />Still, I thank these writers for helping to preserve a little Appalachian folklore.	2002-02-15
US	51167656	R22CDXQHUBUDI2	0786709324	975995627	The Complete History of Jack the Ripper	Books	5	27	27	N	N	About as "complete" as it is going to get!	Not being a \\"ripperologist\\" myself and only having a passing interest in the case I found this book to be an eye-opener.  I had always assumed that there were the five murders that are accepted as being the work of the ripper and that was it.  I now find that there may have been six, seven, or eight.  Maybe even more.  There may have even been a ripper murder in America.<br />With this work the reader gets a case by case, witness by witness, and suspect by suspect review of the facts.  The research that went into this book and the details covered show an amazing dedication on the part of Mr. Sugden.  He does not fall into what has apparently been a trap for ripper writers for years by accepting secondary sources at face value.  Instead he looks to primary material where possible and by doing so exposes myths that have survived in some cases for over one hundred years.  As an added bonus he does not start out like many other writers on this subject with a theory to prove, bending and ignoring evidence to fit his preconceived notion.<br />I only had two very small problems with this book.  First, Mr. Sugden is a little too open in his contempt for some other ripper writers.  Sometimes he seems to go out of his way to point out their mistakes.  Considering that these mistakes have have often been accepted as fact by later writers and are the basis for many myths I guess that this tactic may be necessary.  Still I often found that it bothered me.  Second, he uses several words which I am sure are in common use in England but cause the American reader to pause and wonder just what Sugden is talking about. My complaints are small indeed.<br />Sugden does end the book with the most likely suspect but admits that the case against this man still is full of holes.  Will the case ever be solved?  Sugden seems to think so.  After reading his extraordinary book I agree.	2002-02-14
US	51167656	RLLLKMK9EAUOK	0517123916	14597352	Ghostly American Places	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Throw another log on the fire, sit back, and enjoy.	For a book of ghost stories to be worth its weight in salt it has to start out with a good writer.  One who weaves his stories so as to draw the reader into the ghostly realm.  Arthur Myers is up to this task and his writing style is very pleasing.<br />In this book the reader will find well documented ghost sightings that come to us from all over the United States.  One finds in the pages of this book weeping portraits, poltergeists, and a New York ghost who plays Mozart.  In an interesting departure from the norm in this type of book Mr. Myers divides each chapter up into catagories.  First, there is simply enough the location and description of the haunt.  Next one finds a history of the the place in question including a worldly history and the history of the manifestations.  Near the conclusion of the chapter Myers attempts to identify the spirit and its personality. I guess ghosts have personalities. Finally he tells us if the place is still haunted, the best time to experence the haunt, who the witnesses have been, who submitted the story to him, and if there has been a formal psychic investigation.  The ghostly manifestations section will often send a distinct chill up the readers spine.  At least in my case it did.<br />If you love this type of book or if you are just looking for something to read in front of the fire on a cool October night this book would be a good choice.	2002-02-14
US	51167656	R22ILNS0LEG4RC	1892523027	830459421	Spirits of the Civil War	Books	1	1	4	N	N	I wish I could give it 0 stars!	This is one of the worst books I have ever read. The editor of this book must have found it as hard to read as I did for they did a very poor job. That can not be blamed on Taylor but I am afraid that the rest of this mess is his fault.<br />Taylor makes an attempt to write about both history and ghosts and in that attempt he falls short on both counts. His history is poorly researched and in some cases has no basis in fact. He spends so much time on the history of the haunted location that the ghosts themsleves get very little attention. To finish off any hope this work might have had Taylor writes in the same dry style of the people who brought us the high school history books that have led so many people to hate history.<br />Anyone who buys this book to read about history will be so thrown off by the historical errors that they will be able to give the ghost stories little credit. Anyone who buys this book for the ghost stories will just fall quickly to sleep.	2002-02-08
US	51167656	R1TJH6UWSRBAD9	0872490912	761120341	Charleston Ghosts	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Too much Charleston; too little ghosts.	There is a great deal about the history and folklore of Charleston and the low country in this book.  If you are after folklore this is your book.  On the other hand if it is ghost stories you crave you might want to pass.  Many of the stories start out with several pages relating to the history of the haunting and finish with only a paragraph about the ghost itself. For example the story often ends with a sentence like, \\"The young girl's spirit still roams......\\".<br />The writing style is very good and Mrs. Martin's love for Charleston is very evident.  I realize that the style of writing these type of books has changed a great deal since this book came out so I won't be too hard on it.  The idea of presenting a ghost story as fact and interviewing those who claim to have seen the ghost wasn't in style in 1963.  Still I bought this book expecting much more ghost and a lot less folklore and history.  If you are really into ghosts there are much better books out there dealing with Charleston.	2002-02-07
US	51167656	R1PFRF8TBK80X4	0807826480	982312724	Pickett's Charge--The Last Attack at Gettysburg	Books	5	24	28	N	N	What a book!	This book is about as well a researched work as I have seen in a while.  That in itself is enough to gain high marks for Mr. Hess and his effort but there is more.  The writing style is super. It is very hard for any writer to go into the details of a military action without the account becoming very dry.  Mr. Hess does as good a job of this as I have ever seen.  He does this be adding in personal stories from average soilders not just generals.  At least that is how I think he does it but however he pulls it off this book is a great read.  Sometimes one just can't put it down.<br />I guess that being from Tennessee I was also happy to see that Mr. Hess gave due credit to the Tennessee and North Carolina troops involved in the attack.  Hess points out that Lee simply used Pettigrew's division because it was handy even though it had been chewed up on July 1st.  Still the division did well. Especially the the brigades from North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama.  The only brigade to shame itself was indeed a Virginia brigade.  Hess does a fine job of pointing out that almost every soilder involved on both sides answered the call of duty in fine fashion.  The bravery of Union troops who could have broken and ran in the face of such an attack is often overlooked but not by Hess.<br />Finally, Hess draws some conclusions at the end of the book with which the reader might not agree.  Agree or not the book presents its case and allows the reader to decide for themselves after reading a clear argument for the conclusion.<br />Any student of the Civil War or of Gettysburg needs this book.  No matter how much a reader has learned about Gettysburg they will find new information here.  Worth the price and more!	2002-02-06
US	51167656	R3VEJWPJ8S4NA	0807123404	561188800	Soldier of Tennessee: General Alexander P. Stewart and the Civil War in the West	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Its about time!	It IS about time General Stewart gets some press.  As stated in this wonderful book there are Colonels in Lee's army that are better known than this man who was one of the ranking generals in the Confederate army. At Franklin Stewart helped lead a far larger and more deadly charge than the famous July 4th, 1863 charge at Gettysburg, yet very few people know of him.  As the campaigns of the Army of Tennessee begin to gain further study maybe this will change.  This book should help a great deal.<br />From his birth in Rogersville, Tennessee until his death in St. Louis Stewart always remained at heart a Tennessean and his dedication to his state led him into all of the major battles of the Army of Tennessee.  Nobody who studies that army can do so without a study of \\"Old Straight\\".  This book does a wonderful job of exploring the life, war experences,and post-war work of this deeply religious man.<br />There are only two small problems with this work.  First, Mr. Elliott sometimes goes a little far in defending Stewart.  The picture he paints of the political strife in the Army of Tennessee is very clear but on occasion he goes a little out of his way to point out how little Stewart was involved in these political battles.  It might be more to Stewart's credit if he had been a little more involved in trying to remove General Bragg before more damage could be done.  The other problem is one faced by many writers dealing with war.  Most readers get quickly lost as a writer begins to relate how this regiment was placed here and that regiment was placed there.  Worse yet is the practice of describing an action in detail with terms like \\"Jones attacked on Smith's left which was countered by moving Brown......\\".  Soon the reader who often has never heard of these regimental or division commanders becomes confused and is not sure who is fighting who or which side anybody is on.  Can it be avoided?  I don't know but it does weaken this fine work somewhat.<br />Still, anyone who hopes to understand the \\"other\\" major Confederate army must read this book.  Mr. Elliott has made a major contribution to the study of the Army of Tennessee and I thank him.e who hopes to understand the \\"other\\" major Confederate army must read this book.  Mr. Elliott has made a major contribution to the study of the Army of Tennessee and I thank him.	2002-01-23
US	51167656	R1HCA88S0BOWDN	1572490063	421439594	Leader of the Charge: A Biography of General George E. Pickett, C.S.A	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Read this book.	Growing up in the south I always held the same general opinion of Pickett that most southerners and indeed most Americans hold.  The playboy image seen in the movie \\"Gettysburg\\" has always been what came to mind at the mention of General Pickett.  Thanks to this book I see that the well known image is false.<br />Pickett does indeed seem to have been a glory hound and playboy but he was also a brave soilder who exposed himself to deadly fire in the Mexican War and was wounded early in the Civil War.  Longacre handles the fact that Pickett didn't actually lead his men to the angle at Gettysburg in just the way he should have handled it.<br />I found most interesting Pickett's work at Petersburg to hold that city until Beauregard and then Lee could arrive on the scene.  Pickett is not in general given his due for Petersburg probably because after the war the \\"cult of the lost cause\\" was so protective of General Lee that they kept to a minimum Pickett's role.  In fact, Lee made a mistake and Pickett and then Beauregard saved the day.  Without Pickett's contribution at Petersburg the war might have ended several months sooner.  Richmond simply could not have been held without Petersburg.<br />A great book that puts a new and interesting face on George Pickett. It belongs in any Civil War library.	2002-01-23
US	51167656	R2OVUBR0SH0W9Y	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A classic!	There are so many great things about Mr. McCullough's latest work that it would be hard to list them all.  The very best thing about this book is Mr. McCullough's writing style.  He has, I understand, received some bad reviews from some so called &quot;professional&quot; historians.  I have an advanced degree in history and have read some of these &quot;professional&quot; works.  Even I find these books and articles are often dry and hard to read. Most readers simply don't even try to read these works.  What good does a well researched work do if it lays on the shelf and gathers dust?  Mr. McCullough does the research and then writes in a way that often makes it very hard to put the book down.<br />  Another fine point about this book is that one almost gets four stories for the price of one.  Not only does one get the story of John Adams but also his wonderful wife.  A remarkable person in her own right.  The reader also gets a great deal of information about Thomas Jefferson and the early life of John Q. Adams.<br />  In my opinion there are two real tests of a biography beyond the obvious need for facts.  First; does the book shed new light on its subject?  This book rises to that test with flying colors. When I read Mr. McCullough's &quot;Truman&quot; I started out with a very positive impression of its subject. I had rather negative feelings for Adams before reading this book. I now find that John Adams has often been faulted for many things beyond his control. I also find that my feelings about Adams have changed a great deal.<br />  The second test is a more personal one.  If the book has made me feel like I really know someone, like a close neighbor or friend I will feel a sense of loss when I read of the subject's death.  At the end of this book I felt the loss deeply.  It was as if I had known John Adams for years.  Thank you David McCullough.  You have given me a new friend.	2002-01-19
US	51167656	R13LTVCLMXBVD5	0826211356	884302242	George Washington and Slavery: A Documentary Portrayal	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Hindsight is indeed 20/20.	Mr. Hirschfeld has put a lot of time and research into this work and has turned out a good look at Washington the slave owner. He like the writers of recent attacks on T. Jefferson however forget to tell the whole story. Early in the 21st century it is easy to look back and see what an evil slavery was. The fact that we weren't raised being told that slavery was not only acceptable but a positive good makes our viewpoint much eaiser. Washington like Jefferson was raised by people who told him slavery was indeed a good thing. The society he grew up in and probably even his ministers told him the same thing. Hirschfeld's work is lacking in that he doesn't point out that by ever beginning to see the wrongs of the slave system Washington had shown a great deal of moral growth. Otherwise this is a fine book that examines an area of Washington's life that does deserve attention.	2001-11-26
US	51167656	R327DAI39657TB	1881846075	354550974	Who's Buried in Grant's Tomb? A Tour of Presidential Gravesites	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating	The one thing that ties all humans together, rich or poor, famous or unknown, powerful or helpless is death. To many Americans our Presidents are either marble figures (Washington, Jefferson...) or are little known familar names (Tyler, Harding...). This book does a great job of making ALL of our Presidents into human beings. The pictures, the writing, even the index pages are outstanding.<br />What better way to really understand a person than to know their final words. Or better yet to see their final resting places many of which were picked out by the individuals themselves. One can learn a lot about the true character of a person if you see monuments they designed for themselves.<br />I have visited many Presidential homes and several gravesites but after reading this book I have decided to make visiting all of the gravesites one of my goals in life.<br />It is strange that a book about death should bring history so alive. BUY THIS BOOK!	2001-11-23
US	51167656	R2TNOQCDF62T11	1570720088	114907369	Infamous Bell Witch of Tennessee	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Super!	Anyone who has an interest in Tennessee's most famous ghost should check out this book.  It takes a long and complicated story and breaks the facts down in a clear and easy to read way. I have read several of Mr. Price's books and this is by far the best.  We even get an update of &quot;Kate's&quot; activities into the 1990's.<br />Is the Bell Witch still in Adams, Tennessee?  I don't know but reading this book has made me want to go over to Robertson County and find out.  On the other hand, if she was too tough for Andy Jackson I might just stay here.	2001-11-21
US	51167656	R119C86PCWYASE	0394569164	807058126	Jefferson Davis, American	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Wow!	This book would be an easy five star choice except for the end. A little info about Mrs. Davis' life following Davis' death would have been nice.  Otherwise I think Mr. Cooper has made a great contribution to the study of the Confederacy.<br />In our modern age Jefferson Davis' legacy has been tarnished by the rush to be politically correct.  This book gets back to the real man.  The man who got in boyish trouble in school and at West Point, the man who fathfully served his country, and the man who suffered through the loss of several of his children. This book shows us the Jefferson Davis who was the product of his times.  This book also shows us a man who was deeply troubled by the storm he saw coming but who deep in his heart and soul believed secession was a legal right.  No matter how his beliefs fair by today's standards he stood for his beliefs and gave up all that he had for the &quot;cause&quot;.<br />Cooper has brought to us a true snapshot of Jefferson Davis and for that we owe him a great debt.  This book should be required reading in all college courses dealing with the civil war or antibellum south.	2001-11-21
US	51167656	R13E65RPELNKQB	0825305055	144187010	The Ghosts of Charleston	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Even tops the tour!	On a recent trip to Charleston I took the walking tour based on this book. The tour was great but the book is better by a mile. Even while standing just outside or in some of the haunted areas mentioned in this fine book one didn't get a feel for the story like you get while reading these stories. All of the hauntings are documented and have been seen by several people adding to the credibility of this work. Everyone who has ever been taken by the beauty and charm of this wonderful old city has to read this book. If you have never been to Charleston read this book and you will want to go there.	2001-11-21
US	51167656	R2WT7ZWGPSH9TZ	1570720894	738363223	More Haunted Tennessee	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great fun!	Mr. Price has a good writing style that makes this book a joy to read.  It will keep you interested from cover to cover.  The only drawback is that he mixes documented ghost cases with folk tales and old legends with no clear pattern.  As one who enjoys documented stories of ghost sightings I found this aspect of this book a bit annoying.  Still the book is great fun and if Mr. Price was willing to put a little more work into research he could be one of the great American writers of ghost stories.	2001-11-21
US	51167656	R2HMBJXFVNOMUI	1577470540	776621111	Ghosts of Gettysburg V: Spirits Apparitions and Haunted Places of the Battlefield, Vol. 5	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Nesbitt does it again!	For the fifth time Mark Nesbitt has produced a real gem dealing with the ghosts of Gettysburg.  At Gettysburg one can almost feel the spirits all around and Mr. Nesbitt has given us five books full of accounts of encounters with these spirits.  Only someone who loves Gettysburg could turn out such fine work time and again and all of us who feel a special draw to that place owe him a great debt of gratitude.  This fifth book may be the best in the series.  Thanks Mark!	2001-11-16
US	51167656	R1JTAU1T1XYHXE	0306804646	646334722	From Manassas to Appomattox: General James Longstreet	Books	5	70	72	N	N	From the horse's mouth.	General Lee often called James Longstreet his Old War Horse so the reader can get the story straight from the hoses's mouth.  Before reading this I had assumed that Jubal Early and others who attacked Longstreet after the war decided he would be a good scapegoat for their and Lee's failures due to his not being from Virginia and because he became a Republican after the war.  After reading Old Pete's book it became obvious that personality conflicts may have been involved also.  Longstreet called things like he saw them in his book and probably in person.  It is easy to see how Early, Ewell, and others may have been offended by Longstreet during the war.<br />For the student of the Civil War there could be no better overview from someone who was there.  With Longstreet's service in all of the major Virginia campaigns and his service at Chickamauga, Chattanooga, and Knoxville in the west the reader can glimpse both major Confederate armies and gain a deep insight into Lee's army.<br />The writing is a little dry at times but is as clear and well writen as can be expected.  After all Longstreet was a general not a scholar.  This book is a must in any complete Civil War library.	2001-11-16
US	51167656	R2B4PCQUCR2EVL	188352217X	873355270	Battlefield Ghosts	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Boo!	Mr. Toney sometimes gets bogged down in details but all in all this is a very good book.  A must read for anyone interested in the trail of spirits left after the most bloody four years in American history.	2001-11-15
US	51167656	R3Q05QORHDLP0F	0872494292	255933490	South Carolina Ghosts: From the Coast to the Mountains	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Triumph	As a spinner of ghost lore Nancy Roberts can't be beat.  Not the most chilling of Mrs. Roberts works but still well worth the price.  Before anyone interested in ghosts takes a trip to South Carolina they should read this book.  In fact anyone interested in ghosts should probably check out all of Mrs. Roberts books.  I'm hooked.	2001-11-15
US	51167656	R137OWKH73TC8J	0609800213	810066500	The Field Guide to North American Hauntings: Everything You Need to Know About Encountering Over 100 Ghosts, Phantoms, and Spectral Entities	Books	3	13	14	N	N	The Field Guide to North American Hauntings :	An entertaining book but one that struck me as absurd at times.  Blackman tended to rate a large number of spirits as dangerous and kept warning that headless ghosts might well take the head of a mortal to replace their own missing head.  The most off the wall section of the book is a survey form which one is to use to question any ghost he might meet.  I don't know about anyone else but should I meet a ghost I don't suspect I will take the time to ask it to fill out a short survey for me.	2000-11-01
