US	51161872	R1D6FP03HTZMQI	0300097417	801220022	Whos Teaching Your Children?: Why the Teacher Crisis Is Worse Than You Think and What Can Be Done About It	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Harangue and the Hope	The malaise of education seems pretty obvious to many people and the first half of their short book provides a summary of that common harangue in clear, solid, soundbite-proof language.  The authors identify what they call a Trilemma Dysfuntion in schools that has a crippling effect on reform strategies.  First, since there are \\"not enough academically academically able students...being drawn to teaching,\\" the pool of talent and ambition has diminished.  Second, \\"teacher preparation programs need substantial improvement,\\" since their certification and renewal procedures have historically been much less than rigorous.  Third, \\"the professional life of teachers is on the whole unacceptable,\\" that is, professional development and growth opportunities remain stagnant.  These three dysfunctions feed into and maintain a malformed culture in schools.  What is worse, teachers have operated for so long under this cultural dysfuntion that they regulate themselves with their own myopic, bureaucratic chains (cf. Foucault's Panopticon).  <br />What really made this book a wonderful reading and learning experience for me, though, remains in their providing hope, that is, a plan.  Since teacher improvement lies at the heart of any educational reform strategy, the authors declare that empowering teachers to do their job well must be the premise and promise of the profession.  Their blueprint for school reform contains the Millennium School, an attempt to revive the profession of teaching, re-organize the roles of educational personnel, and improve educational leadership.  The bedrock principles that comprise the Millennium School consist of four tenets: first, \\"multi-tiered career paths for teachers,\\" next, \\"teaching in teams instead of in isolation,\\" then, \\"performance-based accountability,\\" and finally, \\"ongoing professional development for all teachers and principals\\" (p. 185).  <br />I suppose that I am a little jealous of the authors.  They have written the book that I have always wanted to write.  This is my way of giving it very high praise because it resonated with me in a profound manner.  If I were to criticize it, it would be that for all its fine writing, eloquent arguments, and scholarly support, the authors do not provide a Millennium School model at the High School level (my arena), only at the Elementary School level.  (Wait.  Maybe there is still time to consider writing that book after all.  Better go now--)	2003-08-18
US	51161872	RZN46WD3YO4Z3	0130606626	589700368	In Search of Understanding: The Case for Constructivist Classrooms	Books	5	16	20	N	N	More epiphanies than cacophonies	What I like most about this short, useful book, about this accessible, practical guide to constructivist teaching, about this handy guide, what I like most about this book is that it lays a foundation for much of the work that we are attempting to achieve with our curricular efforts using Understanding by Design.  Written prior to Wiggins and McTieghe's works, The Case for Constructivist Classrooms supplies an epistemological background that places the UbD work into a workable context.<br /> My reading gave me at least two epiphanies.  First, while reading, I came to realize that most of my prior teaching, even with very good intentions, aims at a broad shot approach; if the student is on the same bandwidth, she will connect with me, but if not, the signal never picks up an audience while I simply keep broadcasting.  My traditional teaching approaches, albeit well intentioned, never probe for deeper understanding because my methodologies never go there.  That is, how can I expect my students to achieve deeper understanding when I do not allow them time to make inquiries?  By keeping it shallow (due to time, coverage, and efficiency concerns), should I be surprised that their knowledge never runs deeply?  Brooks and Brooks quote one of my favorite authors, Jerome Bruner, from his book, The Process of Education (1971), \\"Of only one thing am I convinced: I have never seen anybody improve in the art and technique of inquiry by any means other than engaging in inquiry.\\"  For Bruner, it seems, inquiry begets inquiry.  If inquiry becomes the means of operation, knowledge will grow organicly, systemically, and finally, deeply.<br /> Second, I came to realize how a classroom built on constructivist methodologies provides an educational culture that naturally engenders curiosity (something that seems to be utterly squelched in the middle school years) in students.  Curiosity should not be the only realm of novice learner; rather, it must be the fuel converter that continuallyprocesses and assimilates inquiries into practical, working knowledge for the mature learner.  The constructivist classroom works to nourish curiosity and encourage it.  Therefore, it might mean that the classroom looks messy, is noisy, and lack efficiency, but oh well.  The greater good of garnering curiosity in our students and just maybe, creating a life-long learner, outweighs the need for tidy rows and scope and sequence itineraries.  The cacophonous newsroom and the cluttered studio seem to be better models for constructivist classrooms, not the factory model of bells and whistles.  <br /> Therefore, I urge you to read and take note of this sleeper.	2002-12-01
US	51161872	R1ALPRT639RQYC	0130606626	589700368	In Search of Understanding: The Case for Constructivist Classrooms	Books	5	31	36	N	N	More epiphanies than cacophonies	What I like most about this short, useful book, about this accessible, practical guide to constructivist teaching, about this handy guide, what I like most about this book is that it lays a foundation for much of the work that we are attempting to achieve with our curricular efforts using Understanding by Design.  Written prior to Wiggins and McTieghe's works, The Case for Constructivist Classrooms supplies an epistemological background that places the UbD work into a workable context.<BR> My reading gave me at least two epiphanies.  First, while reading, I came to realize that most of my prior teaching, even with very good intentions, aims at a broad shot approach; if the student is on the same bandwidth, she will connect with me, but if not, the signal never picks up an audience while I simply keep broadcasting.  My traditional teaching approaches, albeit well intentioned, never probe for deeper understanding because my methodologies never go there.  That is, how can I expect my students to achieve deeper understanding when I do not allow them time to make inquiries?  By keeping it shallow (due to time, coverage, and efficiency concerns), should I be surprised that their knowledge never runs deeply?  Brooks and Brooks quote one of my favorite authors, Jerome Bruner, from his book, The Process of Education (1971), \\"Of only one thing am I convinced: I have never seen anybody improve in the art and technique of inquiry by any means other than engaging in inquiry.\\"  For Bruner, it seems, inquiry begets inquiry.  If inquiry becomes the means of operation, knowledge will grow organicly, systemically, and finally, deeply.<BR> Second, I came to realize how a classroom built on constructivist methodologies provides an educational culture that naturally engenders curiosity (something that seems to be utterly squelched in the middle school years) in students.  Curiosity should not be the only realm of novice learner; rather, it must be the fuel converter that continually processes and assimilates inquiries into practical, working knowledge for the mature learner.  The constructivist classroom works to nourish curiosity and encourage it.  Therefore, it might mean that the classroom looks messy, is noisy, and lack efficiency, but oh well.  The greater good of garnering curiosity in our students and just maybe, creating a life-long learner, outweighs the need for tidy rows and scope and sequence itineraries.  The cacophonous newsroom and the cluttered studio seem to be better models for constructivist classrooms, not the factory model of bells and whistles.  <BR> Therefore, I urge you to read and take note of this sleeper.	2002-12-01
US	51161872	R3JA9OJMX5HS71	0140296247	698179978	The Disciplined Mind: Beyond Facts and Standardized Tests, the K-12 Education that Every Child Deserves	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Gardner's Rolling Stone	Fortunately for readers (and anyone connected to education), Gardner has not been idle since he first published his benchmark book Frames of Mind.  I sincerely appreciated reading how he has continued to develop his thinking in cognitive psychology and his suggestions for education need to be taken seriously as a blueprint for change.  Along with Postman, Kohn, Ravitch, Darling-Hammond, Allen, and Perrone, Gardner takes the position that education relates cultural values as much as anything.  Further, those values need to engage the student in sustained, meaningful encounters in science, art, and narrative that produce a vigorous, cognitive growth.  His candid suggestions for educators to assimilate units on truth, beauty, and goodness suggest that Gardner is not only willing to make a radical suggestions for the advancement of learning among children (in the spirit of Dewey and Bruner), but also that the humanitarian interests in education are worth sustaining; that is, for Gardner, meaning needs to take ascendency in our instruction.<br />Gardner is a fantastic writer.  He has a gift for explanation and explication; I recommend the book if only for the Appendix.  He delineates between two world views in education and it is worth the price of the book itself.  <br />Yes, his suggestions are radical and extreme, but being normal is only taking education down to a new nadir.  I heartily endorse this book.	2002-10-15
US	51161872	R1DPA3WDIHE661	0375701273	706296379	Building a Bridge to the 18th Century: How the Past Can Improve Our Future	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Postman Delivers!	This is my third Postman book and I am still enthralled in the reading of his works.  Mainly, I believe, because he writes with a particular verve that I find lacking in many of his contemporaries.  His discourse covers a wide range of topics, some of them superficially, but all of them intended to support his thesis: children are losing their childhood; and meaning needs to be revived in language, education, narrative, and culture.  He is iconoclastic.<br />Even though it is possible to read his book in a cursory manner, don't fault the easily accessible work as trite.  Postman's criticism is erudite, precise and well-articulated.  <br />I hope he doesn't stop writing.  His voice needs to continue.	2001-10-21
US	51161872	R28ALH3UCLDCOG	0674869613	913685404	Teaching in America: The Slow Revolution	Books	4	6	6	N	N	How come history takes such a long time?	The authors relate that the paradigm shift in American education has necessarily taken a long time.  Still, the systems do change and are changing and their book may be one more stone for completely the arch of change. <br />What I found most helpful was their stress on teacher empowerment in enacting change.  Their research indicates that teachers need less layers of administrative control and more opportunities for entrepreneurial decisions in shaping their learning communities, in determining budget issues, in establishing curriculum and assessments.  They applaud recent movemont for fair and rigorous assessments, not only of students but of teachers.  If teacher's standards are raised as an educational community, expect respect (financially, socially) to be credited to them.  To do this, teachers also need more peer control of their services, control in rating and evaluating each other, and in helping each other find opportunities for collaboration.  The results will build better schools beyond the verbiage that blows hard during political years.<br />I became somewhat bogged down in reading it during the middle chapters.  The lengthy reports of how schools have sabotaged their own success, although necessary reading and well presented(especially if one is considering entering education or has just entered the profession), seemed droll.  For me, it slowed the journey of reading down.   <br />But definitely read it to the end.  Their book would be a good, educational companion suggestion next to Peter Senge's The Fifth Discipline.	2001-09-29
US	51161872	R2ADHUXDOQYBFR	0140275169	785616726	An Intelligent Person's Guide to Philosophy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A First Class Tour	I thoroughly enjoyed Scruton's peregrinations through philosophy, at first because his declared purpose was to revive the subject as having merit in dealing with many questions that surface in the course of a day--those pesky Why questions, and secondly, because he is an excellent writer handling difficult topics.  Reading it, especially his chapter on the relationship between the subject/object of consciousness, inspired me.  I plan to explore it in my own reading and writing.  <br />Scruton writes clearly and lucidly concerning essential topics and he refers to previous philosophers, explicating on their works with apt expression.  I trusted him as a tour guide.	2001-09-01
US	51161872	RAG78B4QCY7IM	1574230735	421269362	Dawn: An Autobiography of Early Youth	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Dreiser On Dreiser Is Still Dry, Sir.	Although he published this volume (second after Newspaper Days, chronologically), Dreiser intended Dawn to be the first of four autobiographies, each covering approximately 20 years of his life. This confirms Dreiser's ambition, but doesn't place this book in the prize category of great autobiographical works. For all of his professed candor, Dreiser still skirts personal truths for the protocol, and his sentences wind and ramble and repeat like an electric train on contorted tracks.<BR>If you liked Sister Carrie and some of his other longer fictions, this extra reading may be helpful, but if you want to go for the &quot;red meat&quot; of Dreiser's life, I'd encourage a reading of his American Notebooks--his journals, published after his death and never really intended for publication. In them, boy oh boy, does the real Dreiser sans facade emerge.	2001-08-29
US	51161872	RQLB8TFGABQQ9	0465076963	226988445	In Search Of Moby Dick The Quest For The White Whale	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Start Your Search Here	Severin's varied accounts of South Pacific whaling compliment Melville's novel wonderfully. His book provides excellent supplemental reading to support Melville's classic AND add to the lore of the sea. Like the novel, Severin concludes his searching by recording a whale hunt that has incredible action and danger.<BR>What fascinated me in this short book was his description of the whiteness of the whale. Nature allows white for only a few examples of whiteness and they are esteemed highly; their significance has spiritual and metaphysical associations. Severin states that whiteness and the sea are common, but in the whale, the shark, the manta ray and in other species, the contrast in seeing a white member &quot;contradicts&quot; our assumptions. I endorse this book for several reasons: Severin's anthropological recording is astute; he carefully respects Melville's accounts; and he is an excellent writer in his own right.	2001-08-29
US	51161872	R2VOXV51EIXMLM	0684842211	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wolfe Is the Walt Whitman of Fiction	I love the sprawl of this novel; it has an organic energy, an enormous scope and vitality, and a sensuality, a feeling on each page. The novel is large in more than just page count. Wolfe's story portrays the spiritual and pscyhological growth of Eugene Gant--an autobiographical character. The image that remains is unforgetable. Wolfe's intelligence is that of the fox, uncanny in depth and range.<BR>If you like to read novels that create a world, create an irony and have a passion, I'd recommend this one. I can see the debt that Wolfe has with previous writers. He owes something to Dreiser in creating the enormous vitality in his prose. But Wolfe doesn't care about the naturalistic forces like Dreiser does, its powers and drives. For Wolfe, it is more important to live life to the fullest, completely alive. In this sense, I think that Walt Whitman's poetry parallels Wolfe's fictive prose. Whitman and Wolfe wrote about the people, the families, the bodies, the minds, connecting and disconnecting, all vitally alive and all eventually passing away.<BR>To me, what makes this novel most worthwhile to read is the final chapter: haunting, lyrical, amazing. I doubt if Wolfe will be read with a wider audience in this day because his race references can easily be construed as racism. Push past that, though, and read it for its heart, not the age in which it was written. Wolfe needs to be read long into the future.	2001-08-29
US	51161872	RI8WZJ6V3I6SO	080773974X	833671035	Critical Encounters in High School English: Teaching Literary Theory to Adolescents (Language & Literacy Series)	Books	4	31	46	N	N	It's Tuesday--This Must Be Deconstruction	There is nothing wrong with encouraging students to encounter literature from a variety of viewpoints and any worthy English teacher of literature should be adept in reinforcing this skill. In this respect, Appleman's book shows merit. She outlines approaches for teaching the literary theories of Reader-Response, Marxism, Feminism, and Deconstruction, with (ad nauseum) student responses and sample handouts. And of course we walk in a world of categorization and theory, so writing about teaching literary theory is somewhat of a &quot;no brainer&quot; since our brain organizes information this way; without this skill, one could not survive. In short, she attempts to bring the theoretical world of the critics closer to younger students. Who can criticize that? Yet.... When I was reading her book, I kept thinking that this information might be handy for a certain teacher who lacks confidence in his or her own ability to respond directly to literature. Having the lenses is a great exercise, especially if one wants their students to show well on &quot;Jeopardy.&quot; Yes, they are indispensible to know if one is in an English graduate program. Knowing them would also help one appear more erudite at a literary party. So teach the students literary theory. Then teach them to respond with their own hearts and minds; to read with passion, voraciously, discarding the inapplicable and acting with courage on the true. Teach them to underline their books (their OWN books, of course) simply because they found a beautiful sentence. Teach them to read the Introduction to the novel LAST, after they have had a chance to read and develop their OWN lense--their own viewpoints. This takes greater courage, I believe. Students need to THINK the page. Robert Frost once said that &quot;education in English is properly a slow process of just staying around in the right company till you can speak and handle a book in the author's presence without setting his teeth on edge&quot; (as quoted in George Anderson's &quot;Bread Loaf School of English: The First Fifty Years, Middlebury: Middlebury Press, 1969, p. 33).	2001-08-26
US	51161872	R36MAQ10ROQT6Q	0891950907	957871287	No Excuses : Lessons from 21 High-Performing, High-Poverty Schools	Books	4	43	48	N	N	Passionate Intensity	If there's any book that works like a coach in a locker room giving a half-time pep talk, this is it.  The tone is inspirational and invigorating and Carter identifies several important points that educators need to tune into in order to be better teachers.  Yet....<br />Yet there is something bothering me.  For all the important emphasis on teacher and administrator improvement (a priori knowledge in recent educational debates), there is a heavy reliance on standards.  Listen: No teacher is opposed to standards.  It would be tantamount to saying I am against breathing.  But just what those standards are and who sets them and who measures them--that is the debate.  <br />Maybe it is the emphasis that Carter places on the importance of Direct Instruction as an instructional method that bothers me.  DI has been widely advocated in educational certification programs as the standard modus operendi for classrooms instruction and it relies heavily on behavoralistic methods of learning: skill and drill, frequent assessments, highly scripted teacher stimuli and highly structure student response.  Carter says that we have built too much into studying how children learn and forgotten to teach them.  While this is catchy, I disagree: we must be cognizant of our students abilities when instructing them.  It reminds me of one of my favorite teacher jokes.  Did you hear about the teacher that went home and taught his dog how to whistle?  ....No?  She didn't learn, but he taught him.<br />But I still endorse this book.  The 21 different schools are important for someone looking for other schools that have gone ahead with reform programs and that may be beneficial.	2001-04-02
US	51161872	R2ANM2XXJYRES3	0029351804	147628913	The Aims of Education and Other Essays	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Extremely Timely Teaching	Although most of these essay were written over eight decades ago, I found them to be extremely timely, especially the title essay.  Whitehead shoots straight.  He begins by stating that most teachers transmit &quot;inert&quot; ideas in their practice--they teach material that has to practicable bearing on providing any meaningful help to students.  <br />He identifies three different stages or rhythms in educational methodology that happen in tandem and in rotation (I visualize a geocentric universe filled with epicycles of rotating moons and planets to illustrate the layers and rings of motion in teaching).  He bases these stages on Hegel's Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis, but he adapts them to the classroom and human learning.  He calls these rhythms Romance, Precision, and Generalization.  In Romance, the teacher needs to awake the sense of wonder and curiosity in a student's mind.  This will provide the impetus to pursue the learning to the next stage: Precision.  In the second stage, the student studies by drill and repetition the formulae, rules, and grammars that build upon a thorough knowledge of a filed.  In the third stage, Whitehead declares that the student needs to move into a realm of Generaliztion.  In this rhythm, the student makes connections, applications, and full, mature usage of the material and ideas.<br />I wish more teachers and teachers interested in developing their pedagogical methodolgy would take the time to read this short masterful book.	2001-03-10
US	51161872	R2VDQA9NWBBXM7	0060664517	630642695	To Know as We Are Known: Education as a Spiritual Journey	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A Call for Teachers to Teach Meaningfully	What I carried away from this short book is this: Teacher's need to create a culture in their classrooms that involves these three things, Openness, Boundaries, and Hospitality.  Meditating on these three elements gives me motivation to strive to achieve a balance in my own teaching using these elements, creating volume with these three dimensions.  Openness allows for freedom to pursue ideas and skills with curiosity and creativity; Boundaries allows for discipline and focus in achieving educational goals, and Hospitality allows for the respect and responsibility that must be at the heart of all human endeavors to appear and flourish.<br />A little tip, though: After the first chapter, for me, the book really took off.  At first, I felt that he was somewhat vague and inspecific in what he wanted to write about, but thereafter, he filled each chapter with meditative, thoughtful, yet practical talk about significant teaching goals and practices.<br />I think reading Palmer on Education is akin to reading Rollo May on Psychology.  You will be a better person at the end of your reading.	2001-03-10
US	51161872	RIEMJ24ME7JOL	0684831074	579189032	Vital Lies, Simple Truths: The Psychology of Self-Deception	Books	5	151	151	N	N	A Vital Book With Simple Truths	Goleman states his thesis using three premises in the early pages of his book: (1) The mind can protect itself against anxiety by dimming awareness. (2) This mechanism creates a blind spot: a zone of blocked attention and self-deception. (3) Such blind spots occur at each major level of behavior from the psychological to the social. (p. 22)<br />With these principles as his map, Goleman writes an excellent study of human psychological behavior that, whether the reader approaches it as a journal of self-discovery (like me) or as a explanation for social &quot;groupthink&quot; (like me, again), it proved to be very helpful.  I enjoyed how Goleman supported his ideas with recent research and how he used quotes and references to support his ideas.  Mapping out why we cover our anxieties with delusional behaviors, well, I think it is fascinating and the applications are immense.	2001-03-03
US	51161872	R2RU4WJXAES65W	0674354397	430065726	The Girl with the Brown Crayon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exploring Narrative Continuity...With Five-Year-Old Children	I enjoyed taking my time reading this short book.  In fact, a few pages into reading it, I realized that I needed to go to the library and check out the Leo Lionni books that Ms. Paley refers to in her book.  Thus, the Lionni tales were like station stops for me while I read Ms. Paley's book.  <br />I recommend doing the same for you, if possible.  <br />What became for me the great points of the book were these elements: I enjoyed how she spent the entire year's curriculum focusing on one author for her children.  This fits into Ted Sizer's curriculum dictum that &quot;less is more.&quot;  It enables the children to make vertical connections between the stories instead of the usual horizontal transitions that teachers make as they &quot;cover&quot; their material.<br />Also, I enjoyed the emphasis that Ms. Paley puts on narrative continuity in her classroom.  She structures her play around stories and her stories become play.  In this sense, she helps shape for her young learners the important qualities of discovery learning and meaningful dialogue.  <br />Finally, I simply love reading her graceful prose.  She, herself, is a masterful storyteller.	2001-02-25
US	51161872	R2IL5OZXSNKBK7	0201339919	11142498	The Power of Mindful Learning	Books	5	13	16	N	N	It Re-Invents The Obvious	Take the time to read this short analysis of sideways, mindful learning.  Langer calls for us to allow for lateral thinking, to strive to cultivate it in our schools, and to approach each day by being open to life's multifariousness.  She writes, &quot;the very notion of intelligence may be clouded by a myth: the belief that being intelligent means knowing what is out there...An alternative view, which is the base of mindfulness research, is that individuals may always define their relations to their environment in several ways, essentially creating the reality that is out there.  What is out there is shaped by how we view it&quot; (p. 100).  <br />Reading this will help set you on your toes.  Mindfulness is viewing the world from several perspectives; seeing the familiar as a novelty; attending to things with the full force of perception; and looking for more options when others say enough (p. 111).  She calls for us to mature in our thinking, so that we will have intelligent ignorance in making the best of situations.  It is good reading, good learning.	2000-12-29
US	51161872	R2G2QEMO4X7E05	0787902616	797694247	The Right to Learn: A Blueprint for Creating Schools That Work (Jossey Bass Education Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	This Is The Tree Falling In The Forest.  Do You Hear It?	I am immensely impressed by Ms. Darling-Hammond's book.  She has presented an incredible about of research and information and done it in an articulate defense of reform--for the student's sake, and ultimately, for everyone's sake.  <br />She begins by setting it all in perspective, outlining different waves that have swept over public education over the last fifty years.  Later, she identifies nine related components that serve to buttress her reform agenda: active in-depth learning organized around common goals; a focus on authentic performance; attention to student development; appreciation of diversity; collaborative learning; a collective perspective within the school; structures for caring; support for democratic learning; and connections to families and to the community.  <br />It sounds obvious, but her clarion writing deserves our attention.  Listen to this example: &quot;To engender serious learning, schools must dramatically increase the intellectual opportunities they offer, becoming more focused on developing understanding and competence...becoming more learning-centered as well as learner-centered (p. 32).&quot;<br />She adeptly sets the double conundrum that many teacher currently face: How can test scores be raised adequately in the while in the clasp of financial, cultural, bureaucratic, systemic chains?  But she provides viable solutions. <br />She explains how to have learning standards without standardization; she calls for increasing students' opportunities-to-learn, making for actual democratic procedures in the classroom; she asserts how schools can re-structure to allow for identifiable learning.  This is powerful stuff.<br />So study this book, and then re-visit it.  It's worthy of close scrutiny and it's worthy of action.  It needs to be placed into the hands of anyone who cares about education, works within the system, or has children attending public schools.  It clearly provides the necessary blueprint for educational reform, as advertised.	2000-12-29
US	51161872	R1VL0IO58PJV3Y	0465085571	323664508	Thinking For A Living: Education And The Wealth Of Nations	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Education For Thinkers	I deeply appreciate the marketplace viewpoints about education expressed in Marshall &amp; Tucker's book and believe that it is an important analysis for anyone concerned with the state and direction of education today and tomorrow.  Not only do the authors express their frustration with the outmoded Taylor model of classroom structure (tidy rows, teacher in front, stand and deliver--all prep for assembly line work), but also they express their concern for students to be prepared to perform in an international market.<br />Best of all, they spend extra time relating the influence of the Quality movement in business (TQM) and how it can and should relate to American schools in restructuring them for the 21st Century.  I remain skeptical about what they say regarding the importance of standards (simply because I believe that too many teachers and community members brow beat students with high stakes testing, false incentives--A's for rewards and F's for threats, and micromanaged, ridiculous objectified norm-referenced tests), but I appreciate their call for international standards to be the only real &quot;norm&quot; by which we should be measuring our students.<br />All in all, this is an excellent study in the background motives for education, the marketplace.  Imagine an education course in a major university using this book in a required reading list! <br />(Well, it's that good, but I hope it's not that rare.)	2000-11-26
US	51161872	R360KJAWHE1HVG	0787910589	297361202	The Courage to Teach: Exploring the Inner Landscape of a Teacher's Life	Books	5	148	152	N	N	So, Why Do You Teach?	In many ways, it is itself an act of courage to read this book.  Mr. Palmer has taken the rare, difficult task of probing to the heart of the learning experience and seeks to reveal its essence for any teacher willing to explore with him.  In this task--like a good teacher--he asks more questions than he answers and he is concerned in discovering the process and the means of learning and teaching.<br />For me, what lingers after finishing the short book are two key concepts his identifies: identity and integrity.  For each individual teacher, the need to have some balanced perspective of self-identity becomes paramount.  Do I teach to peddle my agenda? Do I teach in order to be the 'big fish in a little pond'? Do I teach because I like the stage? Or, Do I teach in order to fulfill an inner yearning, even sadness?.  Next, the balance of integrity must center a good teacher.  Do I seek fairness among my students?  Do I build good habits of discipline? Do I live justly? Eschew competition? Seek first of all to teach meaning, itself a subject-centered approach?<br />See?  These are the kinds of questions that echo in my mind after reading The Courage To Teach.  I particularly like what Mr. Palmer had to say regarding fear, teaching from fear, and hiding among our fears while facing them.  Beauty lies in the paradox.  <br />Now, I look for those critical moments in teaching for what they are.  I strive to find my identity in my students' faces; I am challenged to live with integrity in my heart AND in my mind. <br />No student of educational reform should be without this book. <br />One more thing: if nothing else, read this book for the research and precious quotes that Mr. Palmer uses.  His endnotes are worth the price alone.	2000-11-21
US	51161872	R1QNG25R5FTEO	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Pocket-Sized Wisdom	This book travels everywhere; it can be collapsed and folded to fit into your briefcase, backpack, purse, or lunch pail.  It has been written for people moving, either up or down.  It doesn't have the footnotes or bibliography or annotations that would cut it for a serious or academic work.  It folds the East into the West--Eastern thinking into Western functions.  The wisdom inside is handy, practical, straight forward, and precise.  It can be read waiting for a plane, on a Sunday afternoon (what I did), or by the bedstand.  For these reasons, it is important.  <br />It fills its place.  Read it.	2000-10-31
US	51161872	RMGPDHDGY2AJU	0385290217	504322925	Teaching as a Conserving Activity	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Getting Past The Title Is The Hardest Part	I presume that this book could be read more widely if it had a different title; &quot;conserving&quot; is too close to conservative, and admitting that your are conservative before teachers is like admitting you are a vegetarian during Thanksgiving dinner.  Getting past the title, the book provides a thoughtful message that should not be neglected.<br />Postman's thesis regards a thermostat.  Just as a thermostat is regulated to provide feedback, countering with heat to stop the chill before too much time passes, so education provides a counter to general culture.  Postman calls the education that the general culture provides an individual the First Curriculum.  Schools provide the Second Curriculum, the feedback to regulate and to balance the swing of the First Curriculum.  In this light, his thesis has great merit.<br />Each of his chapters regard different aspects of education: the classroom, evaluations, media, language, and such.  I found several practical ideas from this book and recommend it to anyone involved in education in any way.	2000-10-14
US	51161872	R1EC3VMBO97AS2	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Into the Unknown	If it's true that we should not care any for where we lay our head, that as the sparrows are cared for, we shall be cared for, this short book stands as a testament to despair, to wild abandon.  Giving away his money, possessions, and status in a society transfixed in place, possessions, and status shows the unique quality of hope that Chris &quot;Alexander Super Tramp&quot; McCannless had.<br />My initial attraction to read this short book had to do with my fascination for the life and works of Simone Weil, who, although a much more gifted writer and thinker that SuperTramp, met a similar fate of starvation for a cause.  No, she went further than Chris, she died for a cause (even if that cause was bulemia) whereas Chris died from mistaken judgement.  At least, that is how Krakauer presents Christ--I mean, Chris.<br />This is definitely the book for discussion groups and late night talking with friends.  Krakauers accessible writing craft led to an equitable presentation of a complex individual.  <br />Also, it's the kind of book to put into the hands of someone who is not a fast reader or who doesn't read that much; this book will make a reader of her or him.	2000-10-04
US	51161872	R24BKTUZQF8SX8	0385490119	386095320	How Could You Do This to Me?: Learning to Trust After Betrayal	Books	5	22	24	N	N	How Could You Not Read This Book...	How could you not read this book if you have lived through any phase of a betrayal?  Greer's advice is solid, practical, and accessible.  She breaks it down into manageable steps and works to re-build the esteem that gets devastated by betrayal.  This is a &quot;hands on&quot; book, and much cheaper than a counseling session.<br />I found that I was a little overwhelmed with all the case histories that she used to illustrate her points.  Maybe it is the nature of the beast, though.  I don't know how she does it.  But for me, and reading this book, I feel better and closer to moving on.  <br />You, too?	2000-10-04
US	51161872	R2XL8HZJYFPWTN	1880823217	530238392	The Care and Feeding of Perfectionists	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Perfect Book for Perfectionists	Even if you are not a perfectionist, you need to read this book because you know someone who is and she or he needs your love and understanding.  <br />If you think you might be a perfectionist but are not sure, you need to read this book because it will clarify and delineate just what perfectionism can do or undo.<br />But if you are a perfectionist, read this book twice, and then again.  Curnan's easy prose style and her insight into the nature of the problem of perfectionism makes this a handy, practical guide for thousands (or at least, for you).  She identifies nine different types of perfectionists; types that overlap on each other, but all have common roots in the drive for power and control (and the helplessness of lack of control in the flipside).  She offers practical advice and wisdom in working through and out of perfectionism.	2000-09-29
US	51161872	R3N5B2YJA7T48C	0553379747	832900934	Victory in Our Schools: We Can Give Our Children Excellent Public Education	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Required Reading	I found Stanford's book to be a blueprint for educational reform.  He was not merely a theorist; he was an activist who took his vision from the black board to the the hearts and minds of the students.  He didn't propose, he purposed.  Read this book...you need to read this book if you are unclear about the means, if you need to know HOW to enact change in the bureaucratic jungle of miasmic, lackluster schools.<br />What I enjoyed reading about was how he emphasized having a heart for the students, caring for them with compassion and keeping their interests at the center of all educational activities.  Next, I found that he wrote persuasively about running schools more like businesses than the anachronistic centers of regurgitation.  Finally, I was energized by his results; although he only had three years in Seattle schools to enact many of his plans before his hard passing, the momentum has started.<br />This needs to be on the book shelves of administrative offices of schools across the country, but it needs to be read by anyone concerned about how to engage our students for higher achievement in learning, now.	2000-09-29
US	51161872	R34I4NL6MXJ4JG	0374105251	453372686	Another World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another World is good, but not another classic	I went through phases while reading this novel.  The first 50 pages or so  seemed awfully slow in moving along, but by page 100 I thought it would be  brilliant (when they discover the drawing below the wallpaper).  But then,  Parker seems to be more involved in Geordie's passing (and fascinated by  Geordie's shriveled genitals) and abandons the Fanshawe family story, and  abandons Gareth's revolt story, and abandons Miranda's lonely musings.   These never became resolved to satisfaction in my mind.<br />Barker has gifted  narration skills and she has some excellent ideas started in this novel,  but that's all that I can say that is good about it.  I haven't read any of  her other novels so I can't compare her other work to this one.  <br />Oh,  well, I'm not complaining.  I'm just moving on.  For you: read it if you  want, or move on, too.	2000-09-15
US	51161872	R1RGXR3P6T9NW2	188886902X	215096937	The Medium Is the Massage: An Inventory of Effects	Books	5	34	37	N	N	I Get Goosebumps...	I get goosebumps just thinking about reviewing this book wherein McLuhan  coins the term &quot;the global village.&quot;  On the internet, 33 years  after this book was published, McLuhan had the insight and perspicacity to  see just how electronics will be changing us. He's more of an electronical  anthropologist here.  <br />The flash of the book has worn off some by now and  the graphics, the photos and creative layout of the pages seems to be more  of a period piece.  Still, because this brief book portrays so many key  concepts that currently fill us now.  We do not notice the power of the  media until we are someplace that does not have it.  Like a fish out of the  water, we take for granted the influence of the technology around us; we  assume that they have been with us forever and we never slow down to  challenge these concepts.  So, thank God for McLuhan's book.<br />I've  recommended this book to my students and it's fun to see how they read it  (because it's so short) and open up to some of the concepts about the  media's power.  It's as if they had known it all along, but needed  McLuhan's book to come along and draw it out of them.	2000-09-09
US	51161872	R1KRA48YYA67CQ	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	155	163	N	N	A Fantasia of the Imagination	Once more, I have grown in my appreciation and respect for Calvino's  works.  He writes using precise words and never quits until he has  portrayed an image in sentences.  He is inventive, an original.  This short  novel has incredible power not for plot, but for characterization, imagery,  and sheer force contained in the words.<br />The characterization works like a  photographic negative.  He never tells us of Genghis Khan or Marco Polo; no  descriptions or personality traits given.  What he uses is their ideas and  the things that they talk of to describe what kind of people they are.   Thus, it is through their impressions on the template that I could tell  what kind of characters they are.  That is good, confident writing, I  think.<br />The imagery is powerful too.  Calvino strives to make his cities  visible in the imagination.  This is one trait that I think will make him  be read years and years from now.  <br />Take your time with this novel.  In  fact, I don't think that it is possible to even race through it.  It's  shortness is misleading, it is very dense and laden with vitality and  deserves to be savored in enjoyment and not raced through in the reading.   But if you can slow down and enjoy it, I think you will find it to be well  worth the effort.	2000-09-09
US	51161872	R1D15529UQ09K	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Pivotal...Landmark...Watershed...	I wish I had read this book earlier in my life.<br />And, I can see that this  will be just the first time that I have read it--I am going to be reading  this book at least once a year, I want to re-visit it frequently.  It will  be a classic for me.<br />For me, the first power of this short book is his  narrative of survival in the concentration camps.  What he witnessed and  reports has its own power, but when he compounds it with an interpretation,  that is, a search for meaning, Frankl's book has resounding merit.  The  second power is his development and explication of logotherapy.  Freud  advanced the theory that it was sublimated urges that drove the individual;  Adler advocated that it was the individual's will to power that moved one;  but Frankl's logotherapy is a theory searching for meaning--life needs to  be interpreted.  The individual lives and suffers now and in the past, but  for the future, striving to be a better person, one must find a meaning, a  'why,' in order to change.<br />Frankl's psychotherapy school of thought, I'm  sure, has its detractors.  I don't care about that.  What I care about is  the singular wisdom, tested in the fire, of his narrative.  My spirit and  my soul are still reverberating.	2000-09-06
US	51161872	R24TVSLG1Q4VC1	0553263218	835646053	The Pigman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You Have To Like The Pigman	You have to like the Pigman--I mean, you have to like the title character.  He fits into that rare, elite group of famous literary characters that  capture your heart: Mr. Chips, in Goodbye, Mr. Chips; Jim in Huckleberry  Finn; Matryona in Solzhenitsyn's story, &quot;Matryona's House,&quot; et.  al.  The sadness over the loss of his wife, how the love that he had for  her becomes clouded in his denial that she is gone (she is merely visiting  in California), and the compassion the Pigman has for John and Lorraine  make for a complex, charming character.  You have to like him.<br />I also  enjoyed the narrative style of alternating voice back and forth between  John and Lorraine, although later in the book it blurred and became more  difficult to see who was actually speaking.  Still, it was a fresh  technique and worked well for the nature of the story.<br />There is something  about Original Sin, or the dark side, or that bit of evil in all of us in  this short novel.  Why does John throw such a lavish party in the Pigman's  house?  What makes him take advantage of the hurt and wounded Pigman so  badly?  I think we have all done inexiplicably bad things once or more  times and we have to stand back and ask ourselves, 'Why?' or at least,  reflect on what is in us that has such a malacious capacity.  This quality  reminds me of A Separate Piece.<br />Overall, it is a quick-paced, terse novel  that has some complexity of characters and their motives.  Thus, it is very  enjoyable to read.	2000-08-30
US	51161872	R5OJW6JIZ2HOK	0385286171	9215276	Man's Search for Himself	Books	5	19	21	N	N	This Is Really 'Man's Search For Beneficial Reading'	I just finished reading this book this morning and have thoroughly enjoyed  the generous wisdom it contains.  May has a keen mind; he draws upon case  examples and world literature alike to illustrate his themes and he is a  precise craftsman for writing in clear language.  <br />Because it was written  in 1953, and boy, don't we know so much has happened since then! the book  seems a little dated.  But are you going to read it because of it's  'timeliness' with headlines, psychological movements or its spirit of  contemporary feel, or because you want to learn about yourself in relation  to the world that you live in?  Anything can be dated.  But not  every book  can be so beneficial in instruction, whether published this year or in  previous years.<br />I took several notes while reading and consider myself  just a little bit of a smarter person having finished reading it.  But I'll  be wiser when I begin to incorporate the wisdom found within.  <br />For these  reasons, I recommend it.	2000-08-30
US	51161872	R1HXU7BK1I7X09	073820093X	363552291	Respect: An Exploration	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A Respectful Exploration	Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot explores six different themes of respect by  profiling six individuals that she associates with those qualities.  I  found the book uneven between the chapters, but that is because I found  some of the people she profiled more interesting than others.  I  particularly enjoyed her chapter on David Wilkins, the Harvard Law School  Professor; his strides for excellence seems to measure merely his own  inadequacies (his was the chapter on Self-Respect).  I was fascinated  reading about him.<br />Still, I would recommend this book taken as an  exploration--not definitive, not a self-help book, and not an exposition.  But it is inspiring, challenging, informative, and she writes very well.	2000-08-26
US	51161872	RRCSMR8352R3D	0156927942	4040158	Under the Jaguar Sun	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Three Studies On A Theme	I think that these three short stories act as a study on perception and  awareness.  Each story embodies a sense: In the first story, &quot;Under  The Jaguar Sun,&quot; Calvino writes about the sense of taste; in the  second, &quot;A King Listens,&quot; he writes about the sense of hearing;  and finally, in &quot;The Name, The Nose,&quot; he writes about the  olfactory sense.  Reading all three in sequence, the stories take on the  texture of a novella (Calvino, unfortunately, died before he could complete  two more stories of senses).<br />Each story is entirely different.  What I  enjoyed about the second story is the Poe-like (&quot;The Pit And The  Pendulum&quot;) Dostoyevsky-esque (&quot;Notes From The Underground&quot;)  nature of a King's interior monologue of living as a monarch.  The Palace  becomes corporeal and the mannerisms of regality become personality traits.   But what the king hears takes him into his own thoughts, leading him into  an implosion of spirit.<br />Pick it up if your are a Calvino fan.  If not,  reading it might be a good way to become a Calvino fan.	2000-08-23
US	51161872	RT4X7R6LX6SFG	0393315355	76295244	The Sterile Cuckoo (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Pookie Lives On!	In my mind, I will always remember Pookie.  She has the spark and flare of  a great character and Nichols should be commended for sharing her with  us.<br />The novel reads quickly; the pace is lively and rarely lags.  The  adventures of romance in college become a quintessential experience that,  even if your own college experience was never quite like theirs (you don't  have to be a drop-out pre-adolescent boy to enjoy The Adventures of Huck  Finn), it still is a wonderful journey of a story.	2000-08-23
US	51161872	R3P5G4YTMYWAFS	0393318427	283464765	Freedom and Destiny (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	As The River Needs The Banks To Flow, So...	As the river needs the banks to control its flow, so the soul needs destiny to channel freedom.  This metaphor captures the nature of this  fascinating book for me.  May does not disparage one over the other.  For  him, license is the corruption of freedom, and fate is the corruption of  destiny.  He states that true psychological freedom grows out of destiny  (or having a destination) and in having a destiny, we are free to grow in  spirit and in mind.<br />I underlined as I read.  It seems to be the best way  to read a book by May.  He has a cogent writing style and never lags.  (I  particularly enjoyed his blasting of the behavioralist school of  psychology, but that's just my thing.)  Any student of psychology should  read this book; May has provided a balance in therapy, he writes to  establish the fulcrum which should hold the conflicts and conflicting ideas  in level balance.  <br />Take the time to sift this book.  I hope that you  will find it as valuable as I have.	2000-08-19
US	51161872	R7CPTGFX10ZKY	067972883X	937025874	The Optimist's Daughter	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Take the time for  this book...	I enjoyed taking the time to read this short novel.  Welty has crafted  incredibly believable characters that carry their frustrations and  inanities safely in a clip-shut purse to rest on their laps.  I  particularly enjoyed discovering Fay; she stands for the selfish, nasty,  and brutish in all of us; she is all around us, we all know someone like  her.  <br />Best of all, however, is Welty's supple gift with language.  She  constructs the narration with a maturity of style that is difficult to  describe.  She delves into the lives of the characters, their pasts, their  silent struggles, and reveals it with respect.  It's as if she were  handling a rare vase newly unearthed from a dig, turning it in the light,  pointing out the scratches and cracks and always admiring the thing.<br />This  is a character novel.  The plot is secondary to the lives of the  characters.  Inside the story, the gossamer trace of humanity in the  characters left me with a tickle--a flutter--and it made me think about  things in my life in comparison.	2000-08-19
US	51161872	R9YZI7TQ99A82	0520002385	91911270	From Two to Five	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful instruction for anyone with or around children	I wish a new edition of this book would become available.  Chukovsky has written an insightful, delightful book about children's capacity to use  language and narration to craft meaning.  <br />He transmits wonderful  example's of the child's growing reasoning skills and never belittles the  young learners.  This book is academic and pleasure reading, quite a claim,  I know, but accurate.<br />I think that anyone who writes children's poems or  stories would take particular delight in reading this.  He outlines 13  guidelines in writing for children that should save one from miscues and  failures and speak straight to the hearts and minds of the child.<br />It is a  little dated, mainly because Chukovsky wrote in 1960 in the midst of a  Soviet regime.  Yet, the truth and the passion still emerge.  The respect  that he has for children's capacity to learn should be the role model for  each of us.<br />I sincerely recommend this book to you.	2000-08-19
US	51161872	R11YM9CIAJKX9M	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still very, very good	I'm not sure I'm supposed to do this but I'll anyway.  This is the third  time through this novel for me and after I finished my second reading, I  posted my comments here (scroll down some).  <br />This reading, I was  impressed by the relationship between the Ramsey's.  Mr. Ramsey lives in  the world of thought, rationality and verbal sword-play.  But Mrs. Ramsey  lives in the world of the heart; she is a nurturer, the caregiver, very  intelligent, but not caught up in the territorial boundary lines that the  men fight over with words.  Yet Mr. Ramsey, and William Bankes, and Charles  Tansley, they all find her beautiful, they admire her immensely.  What  strikes me is this: Mrs. Ramsey's beauty is an inner beauty of action,  peace, harmony, and balance in her world.  She brooks no false illusions  about her place in the cosmos, she isn't vain, she's thoughtful and  diligent.  The men rely on her for this quality that they do not have in  their own lives.<br />In my last reveiw here, I thought this novel might fit  into the emotional genre of fiction.  Now I'm thinking that it might be the  kind of literature used in marriage counselling.  <br />So, this is a novel  that you can pick up and find something new in the reading.  I need to let  some time pass, but I'll tell you what I think on my next reading, too.	2000-08-07
US	51161872	R3UFLJ16JNS0LP	0807031089	490810402	How Schools Change: Lessons from Three Communitites	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Anyone related to education needs to read this....	Wagner has written three profiles of schools in the process of change. What I found helpful about this book is that he recognizes that this process will take time and will encounter set backs but it is still very  much worth doing.<br />He presents three goals that need to be at the front of  any kind of school reform--legislators? are you listening? First, there  need to be clear goals identified by the staff; setting clear goals will  help measure the progress and clarify just what it is to be called educated  in our culture.  Second, he states that the staff needs to have core values  of compassion and integrous commitment to educational aims.  That sounds  like election-year mumbo-jumbo, yet, read for what it is worth, it really  needs to be addressed.  Third, he stresses the collaboration required  amonst staff at all levels; each needs the other if it is going to be done  well.<br />Implicit in all of these three steps of school reform, Wagner  writes, is this, &quot;Some of the better corporations have been practicing  for a decade what many public schol are just beginning ot understand: the  people who are closest to the problem should be the ones to make decisions  and have the responsibility for solving it.  Elected officials cannot be  expected to run school systems with any degree of competence.  They know  too little about educational issues in most cases, are too far removed from  the problems, and are too subject to pressures from various constituent  groups&quot; p. 228.  That sure shoots down State Testing and  Vouchers.<br />For the most part, I found his fourth and final chapter the  most beneficial, but take the time to encounter the entire book.  He is a  clear writer and sets forth a balanced perspective.	2000-07-29
US	51161872	R1GBOM8ZFAZVE2	0684827077	787010434	Yellow Woman and a Beauty of the Spirit	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Reveals The Landscape of Silko's Spirit	Silko's collection of essays present an open, expansive view of her mind and art, her background and destiny.  If you've read any of her other works, reading this short book will enrich your appreciation as well as  assist you on the next step of your journey.  If you haven't read any Silko  yet, this is a gentle way to ease you into her writings.<br />I read it for  the background that she gives about storytelling and the narrative process;  for wonderful sentences like this: &quot;The storyteller did not just tell  the stories, they would in their way act them out.  The storyteller would  imitate voices for vast dialogues between the various figures of the story.   So we sometimes say the moment is alive again within us, within our  imagination and our memory, as we listen.&quot; <br />I read it for the wisdom  of the old ways of the old-time people; like this: &quot;...time was  round--like a tortilla; time had specific moments and specific locations,  so that the beloved ancestors who had passed on were not annihilated by  death, but only relocated to the place called the Cliff House.  At Cliff  House, people continued as they had always been, although only spirits and  not living humans can travel freely over this tortilla of time.  All times  go on existing side by side for all eternity.  No moment is lost or  destroyed.  There are no future times or past times; there are 'always all'  [her emphasis] the times, which differ slightly, as the locations on the  tortilla differ slightly.  The past and the future are the same because  they exist only in the present of our imaginations....&quot; and she  continues, but, isn't that powerful?  As well as good writing?<br />I also  enjoyed reading of her political activism and her position on many issues  of the west and Native-Americans.  <br />For me, highly recommended.  Can't  you tell?	2000-07-25
US	51161872	R3UNS28QB16AS9	155970005X	749766791	Storyteller	Books	5	60	61	N	N	There Are No Pigeon Holes For This Pigeon	Librarians have a difficult time finding a place for this book.  Should it go into the autobiographical section?  There's a great deal of her past and her family's heritage in this book.  Should it be placed next to the poetry  books?  She has included several of her poems.  What about fiction?  She  has several of her famous short stories (&quot;Storyteller,&quot;  &quot;Yellow Woman,&quot; &quot;Lullaby,&quot;) collected here.  It's even  got photojournalism in it--26 photos taken by either herself or her father.   Even the shape of the book is peculiar.  Maybe this might disenchant a  reader who would rather have boundaries and borders.  But I found it  amazing.<br />Of course, she puts the table of contents at the end of the  book.  And the beginning of the book is in the center, with her poem  &quot;Long Time Ago,&quot; and should be read outwards, like the circular,  centrifugal pattern in a spider web.  <br />She keeps the memories alive of  her the old people by telling her stories.  She relates in her poetry and  fiction, narratives that are reflective, alarming, magical, and, well,  fascinating. The voice is consistent, strong, and rhythmic.  Thought Woman  has been at work here. <br />I recommend this book for those that want to  learn, who want to challenge themselves by being confronted, who long to  find a book to counsel and lead them into reflections, and who respect all  things, past, present, and possible.	2000-07-25
US	51161872	R33Q2QUL66A3U2	0156659751	21402036	The Nonexistent Knight and The Cloven Viscount	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Highly Recommended, Friends	These are wonderful novellas.  Written as fables, there appeal lies on one level as simple fictional tales about knights and castles, so it could be something that children could enjoy quite easily.  From there, it grows.   Calvino packs so much wisdom and inquisitiveness into these stories, that  it takes on the form of a metaphysical inquiry into morality, epistomology,  and science.   In &quot;The Nonexistent Knight,&quot; the penultimate  hollow man shuffles through Charlemagne's Europe maintaining some kind of  external order, at least.  That's all he has to offer to the world, of  course, because there is nothing inside the shell.  Don't you know people  like that?<br />Then in &quot;The Cloven Viscount,&quot; a parable in an  ethical style, Calvino splits a person in two and takes the reader on the  journey of exploring all the ramifications of that fissure.  <br />I believe  these could be taught in a philosophy course, a literature course, read at  the bedside with junior, and taken to the beach for summer reading, and an  easy book to talk about at a dinner party or in a book group.	2000-07-21
US	51161872	R25AVJHI6XAVZF	0674179536	359246210	The Culture of Education	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Practical Bruner	What I enjoyed most about Bruner's practical and insightful collection of essays collected in this book is his wisdom.  Bruner's contribution to education, after years researching and engineering much of the Cognitive  Revolution in psychology, has to be acknowledged.  <br />Specifically, I  enjoyed his emphasis on &quot;intersubjectivity,&quot; a term used to  described the process of learning using cultural, social stimuli in  collusion with internal cognitive processes.  Bruner repeatedly stresses  the balance needed to sustain the view that individuals learn within their  environment as well as through their biological background. <br />Keep this  book in your library; it will be one that you underline and refer to  frequently.	2000-07-21
US	51161872	R3HEUGL391KCCF	0679750312	660797631	The End of Education: Redefining the Value of School	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Just How Radical This Is	Just how radical this book is depends, I suppose, on your investment in education.  From a teacher's prespective, I find in startling refreshing and valuable, because Postman is willing to take on difficult, &quot;sacred  cow&quot; movements in education in a cogent manner.  He isn't trying to be  controversial...on purpose, but he will if he has to do so.<br />For example,  he takes on multiculturalism, an approach that is strong and getting  stronger in our public schools.  For Postman, it is important to maintain  and present a common cultural heritage--something that will unify all of  us--and yet maintain separate, sub- or minicultures in our homes and  communities.  But he presents his arguments with support and erudition, so  that whatever your position might be after reading him, it will be  something worth defending.  In other words, it is worth reading this book  if you care at all about education.<br />Lastly, it's short, written clearly  and without verbosity or grandstanding.	2000-07-21
US	51161872	R25S4M9BGFO9FM	0156226006	708987652	Cosmicomics	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Essential Reading For All SciFi, Fantasy, &amp; Literature Fans	I resisted this book at first.  Calvino wrote a series of 12 related short stories that work as a novel (but each story stands on its own), each playing with visual images.  In his book, The Uses Of Literature, Calvino  writes about Cosmicomics, saying, &quot;My aim was to show that writing  using images typical of myth can grow from any soil, even from language  farthest away from any visual image.&quot;  He does this with incredible  agility, quickness, exactitude, visibility, and multiplicity.<br />The first  tale, for me, was the most mind- boggling.  &quot;The Distance Of The  Moon&quot; is surreal, absurd, fantastical, and utterly engaging.  It is  worth the price of the book itself.  Four characters cavort on the earth  and the moon--this was back in primordial days when the two planetary  bodies were fighting to be separate--where they collect moon milk and throw  it back to the earth with spoons.  It is at once a tale of unrequited love,  of absurd fantasy, of visual imagery, and humor that is from one of the  best writers of this century.<br />Read it as a study of narrative; Calvino  crafts his tales using symbolism, multiple meanings, all with precise,  gifted language, it is worth the price of admission.  <br />I think that any  and all Sci Fi Lit classes should include &quot;The Distance Of The  Moon,&quot; or the entire book itself.  I've dog-eared and scratched my  copy already, and you're going to have to pry it from me.  Now, I swear by  it.	2000-07-14
US	51161872	R2SLYPDCUT3OXM	0385489757	489051170	High Tech Heretic: Why Computers Don't Belong in the Classroom and Other Reflections by a Computer Contrarian	Books	5	10	10	N	N	It Tears Away The Velvet Curtain Of Oz Technology	Maybe this is not the right forum to discuss a book that debunks the internet, but I presume that you have enough sense to read between the lines here as with Stoll's book.<br />More than his writing style, I enjoyed  his perspicacious understanding of how computers and everything related to  high tech has radically changed our society and individual lives.  For some  odd reason, we never challenge new gadgetry, we just assimilate it.  But  for everything we gain, we lose something.  <br />I particularly enjoyed the  first half of his book, in which he challenges using computers in our  public schools.  It is a high cost, low benefit formula.  (Read Jane  Healy's books, Failure To Connect and Endangered Minds, if you want to  follow-up on this topic.)<br />In the second half of his book, he rattles  technology in general, and although his tone sounds at times like the whiny  Andy Rooney, his message needs to be heard, particularly his chapter on  Library management.<br />If the title appeals to you, you will like the book;  he's a radical from the inside.  This book should be a companion to Bill  McKibbon's The Age of Misinformation and Jerry Mander's In The Absence Of  The Sacred.<br />This is a quick, scatalogical read, friends, and worth it.	2000-07-11
US	51161872	R2JRKVMENHI1L	0674003667	93422923	Actual Minds, Possible Worlds (The Jerusalem-Harvard Lectures)	Books	4	48	66	N	N	Rounding Out The Picture Of Bruner's Work	Reading Bruner is as easy as putting on a wet suit just out of the drier.  Many times, he obfuscates his language such that it is a struggle to capture the meaning.  And he is an addicted name-dropper.<br />But he is still  worth reading, and this collection adds to the portrait of his thinking, so  in that sense, I warmly recommend it.  I particularly enjoyed his chapter  on Vygotsky's influence on psychology and education--enough so that I will  begin to go down that road and pursue some of his books.<br />What I like most  of Bruner's work is his regard for the cultural influences working in  tandem with the individual's cognitive self--he respects both  aspects.<br />Whoever heard of putting a wetsuit in a drier?	2000-07-09
US	51161872	R38T2W81HKGUSP	043508478X	465701310	Insult to Intelligence: The Bureaucratic Invasion of Our Classrooms	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Critique of Dunderheaded Bureaucrats	Teachers are the gasket between two opposing forces.  On one side,  crushing teachers into  pressure performance situations, is the top-down  reform that has jinxed State Legislative bodies, pressing for  accountability from teachers(when were teachers NOT accountable?  I want to  know) and giving them the tests to measure it, and on the otherside are the  parents in the community who want the best for less.  Everyone is fighting  over the heads and minds of students, a large, mostly voiceless  class.<br />Smith's book provides an excellent account of the step-by-step  disintegration of our schools from the integration of organized testing.   Take note of the chapter on SAT testing, and the new arsenal of state  sponsored testing.  The new discrimination comes from white-collared  bureaucrats using statistics and bell curves to establish their own  Meritocracy.  <br />Now the chapter on computers is already a little dated,  but don't let that dissuade you.  Read it and then pass in on to someone  else.  This is a must read for anyone who cares even a little about  education today.  It should be on the same shelf with Neil Postman and  Alfie Kohn's books.	2000-07-09
US	51161872	R2HOV1IO3FOL56	0674810406	979062303	Six Memos for the Next Millennium	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Five Stars for Six Memos	My interest in reading this collection of essays stems from a curiousity about narrative structure.  I found that, while Calvino writes candid insertions about his own works, and while he writes with great fluency of  ancient, medieval, contemporary world writers, the power of this short book  lies in his erudite observations and keen, bits of wisdom.  Here's a  sample: &quot;Saving time is a good thing because the more time we save,  the more we can afford to lose&quot; (p. 46), and this one, &quot;Were I to  choose an auspicious image for the new millennium, I would choose this one:  The sudden agile leap of the poet-philosopher who raises himself above the  weight of the world, showing that with all his gravity he has the secret of  lightness, and that what many consider to be the vitality of the  times--noisy, aggressive, revving and roaring--belongs to the realm of  death, like a cemetary for rusty, old cars&quot; (p. 12).<br />Calvino writes  about five different qualities of literature: Lightness, Quickness,  Exactitude, Visibility, and Multiplicity (he had intended to write a sixth  chapter on Consistency, before his untimely death).  He examines these  qualities closely, using his own facile language as the medium.  <br />Read  it, by all means.	2000-06-29
US	51161872	R2B2DZRANS3PFE	0156106809	350258102	The Baron In The Trees	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Best In Hilarious, But Enlightened Reading	I devoured this book yesterday, I loved it--Ok, so I was in airports and on airplanes all day, but what a great way to spend those hours.  Set in the Enlightenment era of the late 18th Century in Lombardi, Italy,  Calvino's novel portrays the break of the individual from Tradition by...a  man living in a tree!<br /> Calvino's writing is seamless; he has a great  pacing between narrative/dialogue flow, a balance between fantasy and  reality, characters that are engaging, and yes, satire.<br />In his collection  of essays, &quot;The Uses Of Literature,&quot; Calvino states that he wrote  the protagonist, the Baron Cosimo, to be a &quot;Don Quixote of the  Enlightenment.&quot;  Cosimo strives for objectivity, to distance himself  from his natural world by living between earth and sky.  He sets up his  society and livelihood, entirely in the trees, as his own Noble Savage.  He  is civilized and still brutish, a lady's man and wildly single.  <br />I think  this novel could and should be taught in the colleges and high schools as  Satire Literature, as Utopian Literature, as The Individual in Society  Literature.  If any of those themes don't appeal to you, then read it for  its pleasure.	2000-06-27
US	51161872	R322V9ZNZSRKNE	0679600507	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Modern Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Premier Landscape Novel	Cather's historical novel is as serious and as peaceful as an amber-into-rust-into-rose sunset.  The landscape itself has the richest characterization.  She has crafted her prose in such a way as to give the  land its own vitality and presence.  If you like landscape art; if you stop  at Scenic Overlooks on the highway; if you ever like to walk in the woods,  the hills--just because--read this novel.<br />Archbishop Latour, a Frenchman,  has taken on the missionary work of creating a diocese in New Mexico  Territory in the 1850's.  Throughout his life's ministry, he encounters  rogues, blackguards, ragmuffins,  scalliwags, and ruthless soldiers, and  then some simple saints, some lasting friends, and finally, death.  When  death finally does come, it brings his own peace, the restitution of  justice.<br />Cather writes lugubriously, moving from one anecdotal story to  the next.  But it is all against the backdrop of the land; when she is  finished, the tapestry of the whole appears.  <br />Nice.	2000-05-26
US	51161872	RA0J3CI7X6GFA	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Loamy Novel	Panoramic, sweeping, magnificent, Buck's novel has grandeur.  Set in rural inland China, she traces the life and death of one man, a farmer, a man rooted in the soil.  Through the vicissitudes of seasons, he loses and  gains, he suffers and rejoices, he releases and he takes, but there is  always the land: rich, permanent, &quot;running through his fingers,&quot;  life-giving.<br />In the reading, I sensed that Buck was taking me far away  into another time and area, a place where individuals are traded as slaves,  customs are cemented in rigidity and then cracked when it is expedient,  where life is a struggle to those who have no land.<br />She writes with  simplicity and solidity.  It is a loamy novel.  Reading it is feeling the  depth of what a novel should be--memorable, filled with different strata,  enriching.	2000-05-26
US	51161872	R2LJOJGLOT1TLV	0156899698	851537107	Thirteen Stories (Harvest Book)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Here, Thirteen Is Lucky	I know that Welty has several editions out of her stories.  I know that these stories have been anthologized a lot (&quot;A Worn Path,&quot; &quot;A Wide Net,&quot; and &quot;The Hitch-Hikers&quot;).  So it doesn't  matter to me what edition of her stories that you buy, as long as you read  them.<br />This edition is my first exposure to her collected stories (after I  first read her autobiographical book, &quot;One Writer's Beginnings&quot;)  and I must admit that I am fascinated.  She includes an incredible about in  the settings, in the agile characterizations, and in her own unique, point  of view.  She is a master storyteller.<br />My personal favorites include  &quot;A Wide Net,&quot; &quot;A Worn Path,&quot; and &quot;Why I Sleep At  The P.O.&quot;	2000-05-24
US	51161872	R3HCWYW3XS8V9B	0785799435	984502839	Up the Down Staircase	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Reversals And Retrievals	Noise, chatter, broken down classrooms, and a thousand interruptions  comprise this abstract, or fragmented, portrayal of an inner city High  School's English class.  Sylvia Barret, a first year teacher, has been  given the task of teaching English to students who are as demanding in  their needs as a nestful of chicks.  The results are as mixed as the  students, but somehow, an intangible thing occurs: learning happens.<br />At  first, this book appears dated, but the heart of the story remains intact  an condition seems to resist education--if one believes the strict  administrators and the burnt-out teachers.  But the mystery of an  optimistic teacher teaching pessimistic students reverses; smart teachers  are the ones who are willing to learn from their students.	2000-05-23
US	51161872	R3UWWX7R6SKUZ	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Monument to American Commercialism	America doesn't need a bronze memorial statue in the city park in the likeness of George F. Babbitt, the eminent businessman. (Imagine it: the  statue would be of a rotund man in a high collar shirt, in suit pants cut  too high at the cuff, holding a chewed cigar, and standing foot-forward in  the pioneer stance of a successful salesman.) American has the memorial in  print in this period novel.<br />Set in 1920, Lewis crafted the title  character to portray the new mammalian beast reigning in the business  world: The Middle Class Salesman.  The species is very much alive and well  in our era, but Lewis was first to discover and name this gargantuan, this  colossal figure of Commericalism.  Lewis stands behind Babbitt much like a  puppeteer would, making him respond on cue, and making his actions create  the beginning of the fall of the Empire.  For these reasons alone, one  should read this novel.<br />By now, the statue may have been marked by  pigeons, but the permanent stare to the west by this hollow cast figure  stands as a reminder to the rest of us that, although they lit the way, the  got singed in the process.  For this, we revere our business leaders.	2000-05-23
US	51161872	R288R8KJE305L	067494593X	115656438	Wally's Stories	Books	5	11	11	N	N	If You Want To Learn....	If you are willing to learn from children, I recommend this fascinating book.  Paley's taped conversations and stories from her Kindergarten classes reveal the engaged young minds at work; their creativity and  inventiveness is genuine and persistent; experience is never so important  as imagination.<br />The narratives that the children invent reveal how their  minds work, how they search for meaning, and how the best explanations need  not be the most rational.  <br />I recommend this book for anyone who has  children or who works with children.  Also, I recommend it for anyone who  is intrigued about why we search for meaning, why we tell stories, why we  invent and create.  &quot;Out of the mouths of babes....&quot;	2000-05-22
US	51161872	R8CZ3BTUZM9TG	0674003616	258494497	Acts of Meaning: Four Lectures on Mind and Culture (The Jerusalem-Harvard Lectures)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Just What Are The Proper Causes Of Human Action?	The juggernaut of Cognitive Psychology has created enough havoc, decries Bruner, and it is now time to re-structure the revolution back to its original goals: &quot;meaning-making.&quot;  The computer model of  intelligence advocated by behavioralists has reduced human intelligence to  a mere system of processing information, and rarely is there any allowance  in this empiricism  for an individual's construction of meaning.<br />Further,  Bruner stresses the influence of culture on the individual, stating,  &quot;human beings do not terminate at their own skins; they are  expressions of their culture.&quot;  There is a constant dialogue between  the individual and culture, with the individual searching and constructing  meaning, and hence, building culture.  <br />One way in which we find meaning  is in the construction and interpretation of narratives.  Bruner  demonstrates that narratives are a construct of meaning and should be  respected.  He writes, &quot;culture and the quest for meaning within  culture are the proper causes of human meaning.&quot;<br />Yes, buy and read  this book, often; Bruner communicates stimulating ideas that have helped me  in constructing my own meanings.  I endorse it enthusiastically.	2000-05-19
US	51161872	R14UIHRG7VIV8T	0140231137	806132516	Book	Books	5	3	4	N	N	HeHeHeHe	Who says that you need to have a computer to have an interactive book?  This novel, at once a thriller--with psychopathic killers and deranged college professors and literate cops--is also a romance--with an author  fantasizing over his wild untameble literary creations and angelic  publishers.  Grudin writes with the verve and sophistication of a jazz  improvisationalist and still manages to manipulate the plot to keep me  turning page after page.  And I haven't even mentioned his satirical  approach to deconstructionist literary theorists yet.<br />For satire, a good  fantasy, and a literate poke at the literati, pick up this Book.	2000-05-17
US	51161872	R264R7PCK76SHT	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Book About Surviving, Even With The Losses	This tranquil novel has a delicacy and peacefulness in its tone and expression, yet underneath the simple sentences and serene language, is a tormented, turbulent novel.<br />Set in Haiti, New York City, and Providence,  Rhode Island, the female protagonist, Sophie, lives in perpetual sexual  paranoia and is tormented by ancient ghosts of sexual intimidation.  Quiet  Sophie, gentle Sophie, she watches her mother, her aunt, her grandmother  struggle as females in a patriachal society.  She decides to torture her  own body as a means of liberation, but does this really free her?<br />For  Feminist Literature, this sensible tale has a distinct tone of serious,  dangerous struggle for survival, in spite of the loses.  She will carry on  the human chain, but there will be loses.	2000-05-17
US	51161872	REKY87EO1WHA4	0449003981	832554018	A Patchwork Planet (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Sunday-Pot-Roast-Dinner of a Novel	A Tyler novel is like a Sunday pot roast dinner--it may sound conventional, but when the guests push themselves away from the dinner table, no one ever complains.  Reading this novel is no different.<br />From  the first page to the last, Tyler writes a circular tale that ties all the  bits and pieces together so that long after finishing my reading, it  lingers as a pleasant memory.<br />If you have ever been accused of something  and you honestly didn't do it, then you have an idea of what the  protagonist is going through in this novel.  Our hero works for  Rent-A-Back, a small handyman company that services the disadvantaged.  But  when he is accused of stealing $2,700 out of a flour jar, and when a  criminal record as a juvenile surfaces, and when his girlfriend covers up  for him as if he actually DID steal it, then he must stretch his  convictions and take charge.  The ending to this novel is fantastic; right  up to the last page, the reader doesn't know what will happen for  sure.<br />Read it for pleasure or read it for a moral lesson.  It doesn't  matter.  As long as you read it, that is.	2000-05-17
US	51161872	R91LPCHU916AW	0452276322	198793250	The Statement (William Abrahams)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mercy Or Justice?	Mark Twain once remarked that most books are like water.  Too many books written for plot only lack depth and pass as quickly as they appear.  What about the story, though, that is rich in plot AND turns on the moral dilemma?  This is that book.<br />During World War II, a French National  collaborated with the occupying Nazis and gained a notorious reputation for  bloodshed.  He is also a devout Catholic, filled with adoration to a God  who has protected him from his avengers.  More than a suspese novel, Moore  has written a book that explores the question, How far should God's mercy  reach?  When should justice be called in?  <br />This novel has both a  fast-paced, twisting plot AND also a profound respect for difficult moral  questions, reading it adds to a deeper appreciation of reading and  living.<br />If this is water, it runs deeply.	2000-05-16
US	51161872	R183GG2M6G4749	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Pulling The Heavens Down To Earth	The title to this book is really too polite.  Since the book is nothing but a &quot;simple&quot; report of the latest research and theories being proposed concerning cosmology, and since the author takes on nothing but  the &quot;small&quot; task of writing in layman's terms about what went on  in the early microseconds of the universe, it really needs a bigger  title.<br />Hawking writes with clarity and accuracy--he is fascinating--when  he writes in his later chapters of the different models of the known  universe.  He writes of the need for a convergence of the studies of  quantum mechanics (miniscule particle behavior) and that of gravity (the  pull of galaxies).<br />Read it if you want to look at the stars with respect,  or at least, discover what the best scientific minds are learning.	2000-05-16
US	51161872	R19WR1NY3O22GN	0060914289	742851701	The Egg and I	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Winner of Valentine &quot;Personality Plus&quot; Book Contest	With wit and humor, MacDonald's autobiographical account of homesteading on a chicken farm on the Olympic Peninsula carries personality plus.  To read this book is to discover writing with Voice; her personality shines  throughout and the flavor of her accounts, even while relating bitter,  difficult situations, leaves the reader with optimism and hope.<br />Most of  the book occurs in the 1930's and early 1940's.  MacDonald writes in honest  language about her husband, about Maw and Paw Kettle (who later were  portrayed in the series of Hollywood films, yes, HERE is where they first  appeared), about the Native-American characters Geoduck, Clamface and  Sharkey, about Mr. and Mrs. Hicks, about the Moonshiner, about the Fuller  Brush Man, about the Bookseller, and so on.  She writes about each  character with dignity and poise, so that even with their foibles, they  still maintain unique qualities that make life--my life after reading this  book--so much more rich.	2000-05-16
US	51161872	RWNJLVJ1WFH5H	0553263579	433383062	The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	No Black Veil Here	More than anything, this novel is a record of the nascent Civil Rights Movement through the witness of one woman, Miss Pittman.  In the format of oral history, she provides a first-hand account of injustice and brutality  in the South over a period of one hundred years.<br />She was born just prior  to the Civil War and the odyssey begins with her serving water to both  Secesh (Secessionist or Confederate) soldiers and also Union soldiers on  the same day.  From there, the story spirals into brutality and she suffers  one indignity after another.  But what is redeeming about this novel is her  vision of freedom--something to be fought for, something to sacrifice for,  and something that, regardless of race, some are not willing to have.  She  speaks of people having a &quot;black veil&quot; over they eyes, they  cannot see to reach and grasp freedom.<br />The strength of this novel is in  its narrative power and vision for justice.  This is one book that we  should all read.	2000-05-15
US	51161872	RRBNL8BOW3FRQ	042517025X	632565382	The Story Teller (A Wind River Reservation Myste)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	NOT The Formula Mystery	For some of us, it's enjoyable to read a mystery NOT about finding jewels, treasure maps, precious uranium and the like, but an adventure tale about recovering a lost book, a ledger book, in fact.  Coel's mystery picks up  with characters she has introduced already in her previous novels: Vicky  Holden, an Arapaho attorney, and her colleague, Fr. John O'Malley.   Together, the unlikely pair  track down a pictographic story drawn in a  ledger book detailing the Arapaho involvement (as some of the slain)in the  Sand Creek Massacre in 1864.  The book is important for the pair to  discover because it could be used to reclaim lands taken from them so long  ago.<br />The mystery moves in a measured tempo, with a true rising action and  a finale that reads in a flash.<br />Yet the power in this tale, at least for  me, lies in the characterization of its two protagonists, current-day  pariahs, as heroes, struggling against the revisionist Historians  (--History is written by the winners, goes the adage--) set to try to win  again.<br />Of course, I won't tell you how it ends.  Enjoy!	2000-05-12
US	51161872	RGL06HKIII35C	014034893X	287534538	Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Struggle For Justice Is Genuine	Mississippi, 1933: The South was still in the grasp of racial degradation and an economic Depression.  This novel, told from the perspective of a nine-year-old girl in a large family, shows the courage of that family to  fight for justice.  Through Cassie's eyes, we see how the family tries to  mount a protest against the white company store in town; the Wallace family  runs the store and they have made servere racial attacks.  When Cassie's  family mounts a protest by shopping in Vicksburg and thereby passing trade  to another business, the Wallaces fight back, literally.<br />Although it  takes several chapters to establish rising action, when it finally does so,  the pace is relentless.  Read this for characterization (Mr. Morrison is  fascinating).  Read it for a window into the struggle of what we have had  to work through in our country's history.  While similar to To Kill A  Mockingbird with its narrator being a young white girl, this novel is  different in that it is told from the perspective of a young  African-American girl.	2000-05-12
US	51161872	R1Z1JLNSMP7CD9	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Places The Speech Back On The Pedestal	For longer than a century, the three minute speech delivered by Abraham Lincoln has stood as a model of the new oratory style; it has a precise construction; and it crystalizes the thinking, &quot;that all men are  created equal.&quot;  Wills, after compiling a monumental amount of  research and after sifting through enormous amounts of background  materials, writes nothing short of a full exegesis of the speech, analyzing  it against the culture in which it was created--the Greek revival oratory  movement--and, of course, against the backdrop of the battlefield.<br />This  exploration of the speech restores the conceptual glory to the speech as it  should be.  For too long, too many students of History and Forensics have  glossed over the Address.  Wills' book should restore it to the pedestal  where it belongs.	2000-05-12
US	51161872	R1P33Z182QJHWJ	0060981180	965900568	Mariette in Ecstasy	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Insanity Or Inspiration?	Devotion or delirious? Divine or disastrous?  This short novel explores the fine line between what we call pure faith and demonic destruction.<br />Young Mariette is a postulant nun in a monastery in New York  state at the turn of this century.  She is passionate and extreme in all  that she does; she longs to be supremely wedded to Jesus--in fact, she goes  through a wedding ceremony while joining the convent.  She is carried away  with devotion, prays constantly, and even begins to show signs of  stigmata.<br />The convent becomes split in understanding her inspiration and  soon factions form, some adoring her and others calling her a charlatan.   When she is finally challenged to show her stigmata, the wounds have  disappeared--Christ has taken them back--and she is expelled from the fold  of the faithful.  (Telling this much still hasn't given it away.)<br />This  simple, elegant, precise novel has been written in such a manner as to  remain ambiguous regarding her faith or foolery, and therefore, Hansen  respects the reader's judgment in deciding just what is going on in  Mariette's heart and head.<br />Hansen deftly portrays the mysteriousness in  faith and touches on the line between the narrow extremes.  A fascinating  book of inner exploration, Hansen has written a hagiagraphical novel for  our times.	2000-05-12
US	51161872	R317BWINCR8CJT	0140167943	988777649	Fifth Business (Deptford Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Everything A Novel Should Be	It may have been the Russian novelist Turgenev who used to write while sitting at a desk looking out the window with his feet in a bucket of warm water.  Metaphorically speaking, this represents the artist, drawing warmth  from the Muse while looking out at the world.<br />So Davies does.  Written in  autobiographical style, the protagonist, Dunstan Ramsey, details his  layered life.  Beginning with a pivotal episode that changed his life  direction (one that is endlessly discussable), it is not clear until the  finale just how all the ramifications get worked out from this event.   <br />Oh, Davies can write.  The narrative detail, the characterization, the  ideas, weave like a fine fugue.  Davies writes of Ramsey's childhood in  rural Canada during the turn of the century, the Great War, life in a  circus, hagiography, and slight of hand; it is deliciously rich in detail  and wisdom.<br />The Muse has visited Davies.	2000-05-12
US	51161872	R3OEDHV4MDWY5G	082031661X	300765205	Tobacco Road: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Ouch! The Stupidity Hurts!	Deep, deep in the South and deep, deep into the Depression comes this tale of unsurpassable ignorance, decrepit behavior, and misguided ambition in the lives of a remarkably poor, lamentably disgraceful Lester family.<br />The  Lesters, starving tobacco &quot;farmers&quot; near Augusta, Georgia,  develop a pitiful attempt to steal a bag of yams from their son-in-law,  Lov.  From there, the story spirals down into poor and impoverished lives,  including the young son, Dude, who marries the &quot;hussy&quot; preacher,  and Besse, the woman who was born without a nose.  Their wild adventure,  travelling into Augusta to try and sell &quot;blackjack,&quot; a cheap  scrap wood, fails, as they are taken advantage of and return to their farm  with much less than what they started out with.  (On the drive to the city  in their new Model-T, bought with Bessie's insurance settlement, Dude's  neglegent driving kills an African-American on the side of the road, for  which they have no more remorse than if someone had stepped on an  ant!)<br />This novel is brutally honest, depressing in its depictions of a  mongrel family.  It is the truth with any tailoring, the crude truth.	2000-05-11
US	51161872	R33VO6KRMNOFKI	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Masterful Storytelling	I remember reading a quote from M. Scott Momaday in which he states that we have too many words, and hence, and in this inflation, we are losing the power of the meaning (sorry for the corruption, Mr. Momaday).  <br />That  power is here, though, in this novel.  Ms. Silko has created a tale that is  clearly a journey: of self-discovery for Tayo, of reclaiming the land, and  of re-discovering the gift of ritual and storytelling.  <br />The flashbacks  and quick changes kept for a lively reading.  I thought it had a jazz-like  tempo, with quick-slow, here-there pacing.  I enjoyed the gradual unfolding  of characterization.  I could see the land and the blue sky, smell the  sage, the dry dust, I could almost hear the drafting of the hawk in the  sky, she is that good of a landscape writer.  <br />Watch out for the ending  though, BAM! it happens fast.  At first, I didn't like that, but upon  reflection, I see that that is the only way she could have ended it.<br />Oh,  one more thing: read this novel for the the wonderful poem in the middle of  the book about the beginnings of witchery.  It is good enough to be used  for a monologue in a speech competition.  Good material.	2000-05-11
US	51161872	R3EIIM0KCTJ24N	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Dramatic Tension At Its Best	For dramatic tension, for a resounding lesson in the ethical treatment of others, this four-act play excels.  Set in the 1692 Salem witch trial debacle--a black eye in our heritage--Miller wrote the play parallel to the  McCarthy hearings.  America in the 1950's was then in the classic, titan  struggle against a new threat: Communism.<br />But in 1692, 19 people were  executed for the crimes of witchcraft and associating in the black arts.   Miller takes this historical arena, stirs in a failed love tryst, and the  dramatic tension never lets up.<br />The play is worth studying for several  reasons: First, it has a strident moral tone that is extremely important  for students to explore.  Justice is not always a given in our society, and  in the execution of justice, if we lose our sanity, we can err into several  pitfalls of bad logic, or fallacies--the fallacies of Bandwagon, Hasty  Generalization, False Cause, Two Wrongs Make a Right, and so on.  Second,  it teaches us our own history, with scars.  Third, through Miller's deft  use of language, we watch (read) a classicly structured play develop.	2000-05-10
US	51161872	R21RRSMEUV6HZ8	0460876643	596871917	Pickwick Papers (Dickens Collection)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Immense In Size (Of Laughter)	Immense in size, this early Dickens novel is just as large in providing pleasurable reading; I didn't want it to end.  Dickens published it in 1837 when he was 25 years old; impressive.  His range of characters, episodic  plot, lively dialogue, humorous situations, never lags.  Although not as  weighty as that other great laughing satire, Don Quixote, Pickwick is in  the same genre and should be read as a thematic companion to that great  Spanish novel.<br />Dickens loves the tale, I mean, telling the tale; it is  all in the storytelling.  Although it never dips into philosophy, science,  morality, politics, or other pithy topics, Dicken's vast canvas ranges over  the quixotic turns that happen in life.  Pickwick, the title character, is  completely lovable in his formality, politeness, and cordiality, making him  a perrenially memorable character.  <br />Read this novel, friends, and give  it to your friends who love to read.  Or to anyone who loves the rich  tapestry of mature storytelling, Dickens-style.  This was the first novel  to put him into popularity, and I see why.	2000-05-10
US	51161872	R2RFZ9IJ90IFOW	0819154474	329994553	Teacher in America	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Here! You Measure The Success Of Education!	Barzun's book provides a sounding of education in America.  He measures what is right and wrong and he always comes out for the students, making the best of their minds and goals.  <br />Although a few chapters have become  either outdated or in applicable, overall, the analysis of America's public  education is bull's eye accurate.  Further, what is particularly enjoyable  about reading this survey is his mellifluous prose style.  He is a fine  craftsman of the language and it serves to crystalize his thinking and  wisdom.  <br />Read this book with a pencil in hand; read it for the many  quotable quotes; read it for the perspectives therein; read it for a  grounding and a sounding.	2000-05-10
US	51161872	R1YABDC5RANXM0	0425154637	996034501	The Eagle Catcher (A Wind River Reservation Myste)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	An Unusual Mystery...	An unlikely couple of sleuths team up in this mystery to uncover murder and theft.  Father John O'Malley, a Jesuit priest at the Wind River Indian Reservation, gets &quot;his nose into other people's business&quot; and so  begins a caper that already has three sequels.  His alter-ego help comes  from Vicky, the Arapaho Lawyer, surnamed Woman Alone.  Their disparent  skills become all that is needed in finding out the murderer and the one  responsible for the great land theft against the Arapaho Nation.<br />But what  makes this unusual novel so likeable is its rich respect for two faiths and  cultures: the Native-Americans and the Jesuit priests.  Coel provides a  synthesis of faith in the midst of an entertaining mystery and that is  talent.  And it makes the reading of the tale a multi-level experience of  pleasure.	2000-05-10
US	51161872	R2Y1K1VESI17YL	0684829576	462878472	The Empty Space: A Book About the Theatre: Deadly, Holy, Rough, Immediate	Books	5	3	5	N	N	THE Manual For Theater Productions	For directors, designers, actors, and theater patrons, read this short book on the theory and practice of making good drama.  Peter Brook's four chapters (&quot;The Deadly Theater,&quot; &quot;The Holy Theater,&quot;  &quot;The Rough Theater,&quot; and &quot;The Immediate Theater&quot;) are  filled with practical, helpful advice that it would benefit anyone to read  this who loves the stage.  Read it with a pencil, too.	2000-05-03
US	51161872	RFF8TTAKGRZ4N	0440339332	879729113	The Human Comedy	Books	3	11	24	N	N	A Good Example Of Didactic Fiction At Its Best	This episodic novel, written in 1942 and published in 1943, reads like a Norman Rockwell pastiche.  The characters tend to be caricatures, the dialogue moralistic, and the plot merely happy-go-lucky.<br />Now, having said  that, why should I recommend that you, gentle reader, should read it?  Maybe for a Literature class (it used to be assigned reading)?  No, clearly  not, for it has the clarity of a &quot;Leave It To Beaver&quot; episode.  Saroyan wrote this novel to show us what we SHOULD be like.<br />In the story,  a fatherless and poor family ekes out a living in Ithaca, California.  The  two youngest boys are named Ulysses and Homer and their characters are  hollow compared to the classical Greek tales that they are allusions to.  But several times in the course of the day, there is plenty of  opportunities for the author to present his moralistic viewpoint.<br />Yes,  this could fit into that small literary genre called Didactic Fiction since  what it teaches is more for Sunday School than the Public School.	2000-05-02
US	51161872	R3O583L5SKTYFR	1565122208	844527420	Lightning Song	Books	3	0	1	N	N	This Electricity Is Staticly Charged	One should never read a book expecting to get zapped by lightning.  But my expectations were high--I had read Nordan's novel Wolf Whistle and thoroughly enjoyed it.  But in this novel, lightning only struck from a distance, and then the thunder rolled away and away.<br />Set in a Mississippi  town in the 70's, this &quot;bildungsroman&quot; of a young boy trying to  mature never really matures as a narrative; Nordan doesn't develop it.   Instead, he is content to have his protagonist watch others debauch  themselves around him.  Only later in the novel, when the 12-year-old boy  goes to paton twirling camp in the summer and is eventually lured into a  rape situation by his teacher, does the reader finally get some intriguing  development.<br />Nordan writes well, but his plot meanders.  He relies on his  descriptions of lightning storms and wayward behavior of his mother and  uncle (who have a clandestine romance) to carry the momentum of the story.   But he never digs into the character's minds, and this leaves me with only  a damp postcard of meaning and not much else.	2000-05-02
US	51161872	R21MVEFUB3RSFW	0684838257	882700843	Spoon River Anthology	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Best Wisdom Poetry Of Our Age	&quot;The dead can tell us, being dead, what no living personcan tell us,&quot; wrote T.S. Eliot.  What Masters has done for us(when he was alive) is write a collection of whispered epitaphs,voices silently crying out from the graves the ironies, sadnesses, wastes, agonies, and miscalculations of their spent lives.<br />This is not poetry to turn a phrase, necessarily.  Nor is it poetry to enchant.  Instead, it is Wisdom Poetry.  Poetry that carries the weight of mistakes of the twisted lives, creating their own kind of hell (Hobbes: &quot;Hell is truth too late learned&quot;). <br />Written in 1915 and written as if for choral voices--wouldn't this be a great piece for a dramatic interpretation in which several voices perform each poem?  Collected, it becomes overwhelming, just as a visit to a cemetary to mourn the losses of one of your loves can also be overwhelming.<br />No, it is not sad, though.  Somehow, hope still survives, like the shoot stabbing through the cracked granite toward the sun.	2000-05-02
US	51161872	R33CT7ZTDML06Z	068503075X	670154514	The Late George Apley: A Novel in the Form of a Memoir	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Novel of Subtle, Genteel Power	Hold a mirror up to a mirror.  Looking into that reflection of a mirror reflected into itself--conformity into conformity--one sees only how time varies, since the same is being reflected into the same.  So is Marquand's novel: a saga of one family's past and future, reflected by and through the  protagonist, George Apley.<br />Whether Marquand intended a pun on this  family's name or not, it is an apt, fictional name for a family of Boston.  Planted in Boston's fertile cultural soil, this Brahmin family weathers the  passage of different ages in American History.  Seen through George's eyes,  the events shape the people only as much as the people let themselves be  shaped, and these Bostonians seriously intend on shaping their  lives.<br />This novel has a more formal, stilted language throughout, but it  works here; it is necessary.  Read this book to discover an age, to explore  characterization, to ride down theCharles River of time.  It has a subtle,  genteel power: finesse and civility predominate.  How refeshing in this age  of stark, graphic literalness!	2000-05-02
US	51161872	R30745CUFU86PB	0385248806	65504780	Living Philosophies	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Wisdom Is Here For The Reading	One problem of our age is our perpetual worship of youth, innovation, and newness.  If we ever stopped long enough to ponder, it seems to be over what else we can do to bring in the New.  <br />Mr. Fadiman has collected 36  different authors (scholars, scientists and clerics) to give us their  mature wisdom on surviving--no, I mean, living, with meaning.<br />Read this  slowly.  It is a full menu of healthy food.  Read it with a pencil.  Then  re-read it next year.  Herein is the wisdom of our betters.	2000-05-01
US	51161872	R6B7MYJZNCHZJ	0394561619	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera	Books	5	58	69	N	N	Rich, Savory Reading!	For readers, this is a four-star entree meal.  Garcia's prose is richly seasoned.  His characterization is complete and immensely human.  With his style of writing, he creates for the reader a prose that is complex,  ornate, baroque, and deeply satisfying.<br />The novel's scope ranges over the  youth and old age of three characters, caught in unrequited love, surviving  civil wars, deforestation of landscapes--both psychological and also  natural--and outbreaks of cholera.  Behind this hubris, Garcia details the  fine distinctions of love and love lost.<br />This novel, finally, gets better  when you finish reading it; the sensual prose seeps into the reader's  memory and makes for a haunting, echoing satisfaction.  Yes, the ending is  fulfilling.  In fact, the last 50 pages of the book are simply incredible,  but of course, the readers needs to read everything prior to this--as  set-up--to get the reward of the finale.<br />This is an incredibly satisfying  novel.	2000-05-01
US	51161872	R93HYX87QKXAW	0395083532	390790301	J.B.: A Play in Verse	Books	4	12	21	N	N	Pensive and Ponderous	Written in the Fifties, MacLeish's short play is pensive and ponderous.  He wanted to write about the despair he saw around him after two World Wars, atomic destruction and several holocausts.  Indeed, for all its  progressive idealism, the 20th Century has been one of the most brutal we  have witnessed.  But Mr. MacLeish's play takes the reflection about our  crimes in this age and makes it so heavy--&quot;heavy&quot; to think about  and &quot;heavy&quot; to the point of dull.<br />Set in minimalist style, the  cynical Mr. Nickles and Mr. Zuss, smoke in the darkness while watching J.B.  crash and burn.  Late in the play, Mr. MacLeish brings in several  characters or advisors who also witness this unraveling of the title  character and they attempt to console him.  Instead they end up patronizing  him.  Unfortunately, it's written in a way that it detracts from the  play.<br />Having read the Book of Job in the Old Testament (which this play  follows in concept) and having read some histories of this century, I found  that this play bogged down in attempting to be poetic AND profound.  It may  have been a hit on Broadway when it appeared, but it needs a revival--a  re-working--today in order to be dynamic theater.	2000-05-01
US	51161872	R1UR2U7A7V0VU7	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	5	6	N	N	It Unfolds The Ripples Of Time	This is my second time through this rich, multi-layered novel.  I read it first as a teenager and remember being confused over it.  Now, many years later, the confusion has evaporated to leave behind solid respect for the  artisitic merits achieved by Woolf.<br />I am most struck by the layers  contained herein.  At once, it is a psychological novel, an emotional novel  (yes, a new genre, don't you think?), a gender novel, and a novel on the  artistic process.  Woolf probes into the inner machinations of her  characters and they move and breath as real as these words etched in Cyber.   <br />Her sentences flow; they are mellifluous; turning and twisting,  reaching, they snake and snap with images; they turn over within themselves  and then change again.  She is a creator.<br />Difficult? Yes.  Rewarding?   Yes, definitely.	2000-04-28
US	51161872	RIU9NQ4R0USK8	0300023731	953554712	The Praise of Folly	Books	5	90	94	N	N	Ah, The Good Life!	Searching for happiness is a full-time job for me and it seems that almost 500 years ago--Erasmus wrote this book in 1511--others were looking for it too.  They called it The Good Life (&quot;summum bonum&quot;) then, and the ship of fools that were searching for it had completely booked its passage.   Today, it's the same.<br />Erasmus doesn't let up.  He catalogs every type of  fool, every kind of folly, and has room to spare.  Reading this funny, I  mean, profound book, has given me a new respect for those idiotic life  decisions I have made.  Looking back over the grand scheme of it  all...yikes! I can't believe I did that, said that, acted like that!  <br />I  highly recommend this satire for teachers, politicians, priests,  professors, administrators, managers, Rotarians, poets, grave diggers, and  anyone else tempted toward hypocrisy (and if you think you aren't tempted,  I mean you most of all).<br />Reading this book can make you human again.  And  that is the first step toward the good life.	2000-04-25
US	51161872	R1L8XO4FIPDMC9	082630656X	421023354	Cabeza de Vaca's Adventures in the Unknown Interior of America (Zia Book)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	What an incredible tale!	What an incredible tale of personal survival this historical account is!  I read it in view of teaching it to my American Literature students; I wanted to present some of the European accounts of survival that preceded the colonization of New England; I wanted my students to be aware of some  of the literature of discovery that is available to them.<br />I found that  this short historical report could work in a literature class under such  themes as a Quest/Personal Journey tale, or as Discovery epic, or as a  report on Native-American societies in the inland of the Continent, or as a  solid Adventure story.  Cabeza de Vaca survived a 9-year &quot;Outward  Bound&quot; challenge.  <br />At whatever level or approach that you want to  encounter this book, just be sure that you make time for it.  Remarkable,  it really is.	2000-04-25
US	51161872	R2H41B5JL79VTQ	039586495X	972420704	On Dialogue: An Essay in Free Thought	Books	5	22	23	N	N	After reading this, NOT to respond is a crime	Mr. Grudin has written a powerful, terse book that should be required reading for all who fashions themselves as lovers of reading, lovers of ideas, or lovers of conversation.   I found myself devouring this book--I  read it it two days, underlining, writing in the margins, wanting to  dialogue with the words.<br />The scope of the book is vast.  All freedoms and  liberties, Mr. Grudin avers, exist within and because of dialogue.   Dialogue means, simply, any exchange of meaning.  From this starting point,  any exchange of meaning is relevant and important.  <br />What I found  fascinating was Chapter 3, &quot;The Liberty of Ideas.&quot;  In it, he  revives the word &quot;copia&quot; (abundance, plenty) as used by Cicero  and Quintilian, and emphasizes how necessary multifarious perspectives are  to healthy free-thinking.  Linear, mono-thinking boxes and confines the  thinker.  But variations on a theme--and he uses Erasmus' &quot;The Praise  of Folly&quot; as an example--can open up or free our thinking; he writes  &quot;copia can be not only a way of expressing things but also a way of  discovering and seeing things.&quot;<br />For me, there were great discoveries  in each chapter, and I highly endorse this book for this reason.  It gives  persective and balance in a world filled with extremes.<br />I plan to  re-visit it frequently, as well as give out copies where I can to any that  will be open to its wisdom and sanity.  Let the dialogues continue.<br />(Now,  I'm reading &quot;The Praise of Folly.&quot;  Who knows where all this will  lead?)	2000-04-22
US	51161872	R367NIQC5DW5MP	0674639251	599892984	One Writer's Beginnings	Books	5	63	63	N	N	Essential Welty Reading	More than an autobiography, more than a journal of the writing process, Welty has written--has braided with words--a thematic disclosure of self-discovery that runs deep.  <br />At the beginning of the short book, I  first became entranced by her description of growing up in the South in the  early part of the 20th Century.  I felt that I was in the same confident,  storytelling hands of Burns (Cold Sassy Tree); Welty re-creates the sights,  sounds, and smells of the age, making it familiar to me.  <br />But then she  writes of her narrative development, how she started to write, what voice  she sought to create, how she started to see her world and present it in  her tales.  It is in this writing that the book takes on a fascinating  layer of depth.  <br />Welty writes of the life of narratives--those she read  as a child and those she created--in bringing meaning to her world.  She  references her world with her work.  Or is it the other way around?  Still,  while reading this book, I felt that I was overhearing the dialogue created  between the author and her text.  It provides a rare glimpse between  artifact and artist.  <br />I would highly recommend this book as a companion  reader to her fiction; she tells just enough of her origins that the rest  will become evident in its discovery.  And she is at the top of her craft  as a storyteller.	2000-04-20
US	51161872	R3DMQ89D6S09TR	0679640142	165741225	Up From Slavery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good, solid courage mixed with inspiration and drive	For educational pedagogy, for philanthropical courage, for inspiration and motivation on how to be the best person, read this book.  Washington overcame enormous odds with intense ambition; he wanted to do his  &quot;level best&quot; everyday.  <br />I found his story to be the real  thing, the real item in...get this...motivational literature.  Of all the  self-help books published today, Washington's autobiography reads realistic  and true for courage, solid advice, and practical solutions.  <br />Washington  takes the large view to the race problems of his day.  He is more concerned  with building better human beings, male and female, regardless of race.   His strategies with his students involved enforcing basic health care,  instilling focused, daily discipline habits, providing vocational and  academic training, and always presenting an overreaching concern for  helping others achieve their highest potential.  THAT is the good life.	2000-04-14
US	51161872	R3CRIR7E4OAOC6	0345408926	332926083	For Love of the Game	Books	4	0	1	N	N	For Entertainment, You Mean	Entertaining reading and fun for the whole family.  Don't read it for the fine literature (although the long paragraph in the climax of the novel was worth the whole book--very good writing).  <br />I never really associated  with Billy Chapel; he didn't capture my heart.  It seemed at first like he  was merely a ballplayer who had &quot;a girl in every port&quot; (Wade  Boggs?) and his romance never seemed like it was worth all of his greiving.   <br />But the baseball life is here and the Shaara writes to the rising  action like a masterful narrative writer should.	1999-10-08
US	51161872	R2SE12Y6J29SBL	0020301758	904724464	Reforming Education: The Opening of American Mind	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Reform your own mind first by reading this book	Editor Geraldine Van Doren has collected 25 essays on educational reform by Dr. Adler.  Each essay is masterfully written and all are united by a common theme calling for the  revitalization of education in our schools.   Dr. Adler's program consists of using the Great Books as a means to bring  back the Liberal Arts.  He is a generalist who disclaims specialization in  schools (students may specialize as they enter the work force or advanced  degrees), discredits textbooks, elective courses, and narrow, didactic  teaching.  He supports the Humanities, calling for more Socratic-style  teaching.  <br />This is must reading for educators, administrators, parents,  and all learners.	1999-07-11
US	51161872	R10DUFOTWLLFRM	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	7	9	N	N	That's Gnostic, not caustic...	I sincerely appreciate what Pagels has accomplished with this brief study.  It is succinct, informative, well-written, and intriguing.  The fact that it raises more questions than it answers should not deter a reader.  A very  important book, I highly recommend it.	1999-07-05
US	51161872	R2KZABXPJQOJW8	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No damn cat, and no damn cradle!	I enjoyed reading this short novel.  Vonnegut satirizes everyone and everything.  Read it for the satire on religion (Bokononism); read it for the satire on politics (San Lorenzo); and read it for the satire on  education and the arts (&quot;keep looking at all the Xs but can't find the  cat and can't find the cradle&quot;).<br />I had the same enjoyment reading  this as I had while viewing Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, and reading Heller's  Catch-22, and reading Tom Robbins' novels.	1999-07-04
US	51161872	R3T17R1XGQJJT5	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pretty good, enit?	This is my second time through this book (I read it when it first was published), and I enjoyed it just as much the second time.  Through all of the sadness and insanity of reservation life, these characters fight for  dignity, a future, and meaning.  Alexie suggests that the first line of  hope comes through imagination.  I agree.<br />I also highly recommend his  Reservation Blues.	1999-07-01
US	51161872	R365EG4MO50NA9	0316569321	613460974	White Oleander	Books	1	10	18	N	N	No, don't.  Please don't....	My advise is not read this novel.  And now I am suspect of any who would recommend doing so.  There are plenty of excellent novels that fill the same category as this one and should be read first: Mona Simpson's Anywhere  But Here, even Betty Smith's A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, or Lee's To Kill A  Mockingbird.  All the men in this novel are lechers, abusers, and losers.  All the dialogue is disingenuous.  All the descriptive narration is  contrived and hardly credible; who would believe that a teenager would have  such eloquence (--but it does sound like her mother could speak thus, which  makes me think that Ms. Fitch confused the voices of her characters).  The  plot, when observable, is incredible (you know, the ending--I mean, really,  do you think she could track down her father like that?).  And the  characters are all written for shock/thrill value.<br />We scream and bewail  our society today because of rampant creeps, random hate crimes and verbal  trash talkers, yet we pruriently await the next gutter novel--but printed  in hardback!--hoping that it will tickle and satisfy our fascination for  that which is base.  And how much better we are, now, for reading a tickler  like this because we know that we are not, no, impossible, we are not like  any of the weirdoes found herein.  This is pathos, 90's style.  And  somewhere, definitely not in the green room, Aristotle is (tragically)  weeping.	1999-06-15
US	51161872	R1F16Z5B2QKSVC	0679420428	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Wolfe's effervescent imagination captured me....	Wolfe's effervescent imagination captured me; I enjoyed the motif of the leaves on the trees shimmering, shining and fluttering--to me, it seemed that each character shook in the wind with vitality; Clarissa, Peter,  Sally, Septimus, Rezia, they all shimmered.  Then, I enjoyed the  contrasting motif of the clock--mechanical; represented by the characters  of Richard, Dr. Bradshaw; it connected all the characters;  it was  reductionist; and ultimately completing, as all the characters come full  circle (yes, even Septimus!).  <br />I enjoyed--rather, respect this novel for  what it achieves.  But I enjoyed The Great Gatsby (written in the same  year) much, much more.  I muse; I consider both novels to be similar in  many ways.  But, unfortunately, I found myself drifting in my own  &quot;stream of consciousness&quot; while reading this novel and had to  force myself to come back to the pages.  Still, I recommend it.<br />(Sorry if  there seems to be a higher amount of semi-colons.  But I told you that I  had just finished reading it!)	1999-06-12
US	51161872	RK9DLR162WCWQ	0803276087	5746482	The Frontier World of Doc Holliday	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Physician, heal thyself!	Jahn's biography does a fine job in portraying Holliday's maladies and myths--both self-inflicted.  Holliday's Devil-may-care attitude sustained him and it seemed to be the same thing that fueled his mystic.  <br />I found  this book a fine expansion and exploration of the era and culture of the  West (having been to several of the same towns that Holliday lived in) and  I thought the author had researched her topic very well.  My one criticism  is this: I was a little unclear of the narrative of the shooting at the OK  corral.  She presented the depositions of several of the participants,  which is solid history, but the flow of the events seemed disjointed.	1999-06-09
US	51161872	R3WWS5PUSO5RB	0684835339	160386834	GREAT BOOKS	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A $12 crash course at Columbia!	Denby's book does it all.  He has written a sophisticated Cliffs Notes, respendant with insight, of the great authors.  This is more than Durant's Story of Philosophy, more than Ivan Doig's Winter Brothers (which combines  memoir with biography), more than a view from the back of the classroom of  some of the best teachers.  I am informed and inspired.  This is good  reading from a good writer.	1999-06-07
US	51161872	R2X28XFIXJN7CJ	0375703063	844780162	A Virtuous Woman (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Never did find the virtue.	I found this novella extraordinarily long and tedious.  Seriously, I have read War And Peace twice (the Garnett and the Maude translations) and it reads faster than this...this...<br />The characters were two-dimensional; the  language was glib and trite.  It had no editing (there were SEVERAL  grammatical errors!).  The theme lacked importance; that is, I could never  see past the tedium of their lives and their love for each other seemed to  be a misplaced greed for need--&quot;what will you do for me.&quot; <br />If  someone handed this book to me and told me to read it I would suspect them  of some sort of devious intent and a basket full of hidden crimes. <br />Pass.	1999-06-04
US	51161872	RYE3DK3XEN73Y	0140088318	892150343	Maya: The Riddle and Rediscovery of a Lost Civilization; Third Revised Edition	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A good introduction to the Maya....	Mr. Gallenkamp's short book provides a good, informative introduction into the history of the Maya.  He has included a synopsis of each era, focusing on the Classic; and he gives helpful details about the transitions from one  age to the next.  He also has written some fascinating chapters about the  stories of the churchmen, explorers, and archeologists who first dared  define the Maya: Landa, Stephens, Thompson, Ruz, et. al.  In my nascent  studies of the Maya, this short history has given me enough knowledge and  information to feel comfortable while challenging my imagination and  curiousity to continue on my journey.	1999-06-02
US	51161872	R35YYUYKFFHAQG	0449907538	37511609	Praying for Sheetrock: A Work of Nonfiction	Books	4	14	18	N	N	This tale hangs about you like Spanish moss	This tale hangs about you like Spanish moss--quiet, phospherescent, and pervasive.  At first, I wondered where she could be taking me.  The characters and anecdotal tales seemed to be jumbled and never forming a  conclustion.  But I stayed with it; it wasn't until the last 60 pages that  it all came together for me and really became rewarding.  Greene's writing  style and tone is soft, rather like sipping a mint julep--and yes, by the  time I finished it, I had &quot;a little color in my cheeks.&quot;	1999-06-02
US	51161872	R2PKU8CGV983DM	0486281965	287869230	The Country of the Pointed Firs (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	86	86	N	N	No Hollywood, no car chases, just fine reading...	I found this to be an extraordinary novel because it really didn't seem like fiction at all.  No plot, no bodice ripping, no contrived literary conventions, nothing; Sarah Orne Jewett constructs each episode to blend  into the next as seamless as a conversation with a close friend, and the  overall effect makes something like a landscape painting, only in print  form.  Each character she writes about was deformed by the weather, the  soil, the isolation, the struggles, and the sea, yet in their faults, they  are human and thus dignified--it is beautiful in a simple way.<br />I would  recommend reading this book some afternoon with the telephone unplugged,  sitting on a porch with a teapot full of Earl Grey nearby, with your feet  propped up and your cares let down.  It's as subtle and delightful as a  waft of air from the garden after an afternoon shower.  It's a haiku in  prose--the memory of the book is better than the reading.  Enjoy!	1999-05-29
US	51161872	R2YFBTQ9A2475Y	0671892673	367301176	A Place Where the Sea Remembers (Scribner's Paperback Fiction)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Gentle, too gentle...	I found that in reading Ms. Benitez' first novel that I was being lulled into a gentle portrait of the interconnectedness of the people of the village of Santiago and I enjoyed that, most of the time.  At other times,  I felt that the author, in the name of verisimilitude, strove to re-create  the village life so much that it got in the way of the truth of the story.   Remedios, the central character, was under-developed as a shamanness--that  is, I wanted to see her power over the lives of the other characters WHEN  THEIR STORIES WERE BEING TOLD.  Instead, she was just an intercalary  effect.  <br />But really, these are small criticisms.  It was refreshing to  read a novel where each character was treated with their own dignity.	1999-05-29
US	51161872	R358U70FCCLFC0	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Quinn wins!	Just finished reading the book for the second time and it seems even more resonating then the first.  When I assigned the novel to my students, I noticed one of either two things: either they did not get passed a gorilla  speaking and continued looking straight ahead in class, or they devoured  its ideas up.  There are many themes and ideas in this very accessible  novel; it makes for exciting discussion and exploration.   Use this novel  as a catalyst for ideas and a stimulation for exploratory learning,  especially if you are at all interested in difficult (read: dangerous)  concepts.  Don't read it if you like to be pacified.	1999-05-18
US	51161872	R2AE6D20S98Y1C	0385474180	701404239	Aama in America: A Pilgrimage of the Heart	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Coburn is an organ grinder and his book...	Mr. Coburn is an organ grinder and his book is a parade of his toy, Aama, a diminutive woman from a primitive culture who tours with the author and his other woman on a string, his girlfriend, Didi, throughout selected  sites in our &quot;advanced civilization&quot; (his terms), America.  <br />This travel book had so much potential to become a seering analysis of  the destructive forces of our culture that has us caterwauling out of  control, but Mr. Coburn seems to be too enraptured with himself and the  esteem that he seems to gather while traveling with an entourage of two  very different women.  <br />Coburn introduces Aama to air travel, to  Disneyland, to the forests and farmlands of America.  The octagenarian  woman from Nepal responds to these American landmarks with childlike humor  and dismay and always with cute  simplicity.  When Aama speaks with  criticism about Americans, Mr. Coburn, et. al., chuckle and chortle and do  not take the primitive woman seriously--of course, until it is too late and  she is no longer here.<br />Further, Mr. Coburn relates a sub-story in his  book, relating how difficult it is for him to commit to any lasting  relationship to his girlfriend and travel partner, Didi.  He keeps her at  bay--no, worse, he abandons her for a month-long fling in Seattle, only to  wind up desolate and destitute and remorseful.  This book seems to be a  record of his see-saw emotions: I want to have a commited relationship with  her v. I think that there is someone else that just might be better for me.   It is so tasteless that in his postscript to the book, he relates his  &quot;score!&quot; by stating that he finally had a child with his  girlfriend....but nothing else. <br />Sigh.  I was hoping that this book might  be a probing analysis of just how bankrupt we have become in these  technologically advanced times.  But the author seemed more concerned about  what the elder visionary meant to his own status--How typically American!	1999-05-09
US	51161872	R2PF3BXDXN193W	068483149X	153472730	BUCKING THE SUN : A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Make room in the pantheon....	Make room in the pantheon of great western American novels for Bucking The Sun.  Doig's novel deserves to be included with the other master works: Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath and East of Eden, Stegner's Big Rock Candy  Mountain and Angle of Repose, Guterson's Snow Falling On Cedars and  Ferber's Giant. <br />Doig begins with a mystery and a scandel, but  masterfully, he does not over-emphasize the real story, the story of the  Duff family.  I found his mystery pacing something like a catch-and-release  effect--once he caught me and had me reading, he released me to explore the  family story.<br />And the story has several layers that make for an enjoyable  novel that will satisfy on many levels: The era of the 1930s, the  inner-actions of the family, politics of the era, rich dialogue (Doig has a  marvelous ear for language!) and of course, the mystery/scandel.  <br />Final  advice: read it when you have extended time periods.  This is for the  readers who loves a grand-scale novel.	1999-05-06
