US	51177659	RO8N95QNXLIYI	060980765X	948877682	Tulipomania : The Story of the World's Most Coveted Flower & the Extraordinary Passions It Aroused	Books	1	13	21	N	N	Excellent Topic, Disappointing Execution	Tulipomania is a disappointing telling of the story about Holland's tulip craze in the 1630's.  The Tulipomania, as the craze is called, is an oft-cited example of a financial mania, one that has recently been brought up many times to be compared with the internet stock rage.  In fact, that is one of the book's main obstacles to overcome, with the Tulipomania such a frequent topic of discussion, the book needed to provide more than a greater re-telling of the event.  The book needed to describe in greater depth the true cause of the mania.  It fails on both accounts.  The book reads as if it was quickly (and poorly) written to capitalize on the resurgence of Tulipomania references in popular media.<br />From the get go the story is loosely ordered, a rambling tale that seems light on research and still heavy on facts.  The story never hits its stride, and for the one or two chapters that there is a true story to read, the story that is told fails to do anything more than talk about facts that are already common knowledge.  The author chooses not to identify any key characters in the mania, nor does Mr. Dash ever create a feeling that he has systematically thought of how to craft his tale.  The words are thrust together, the facts ramble along and at no point does it feel as if a real book has ever been written.  As an example, if this review were to be written as the book is, there would be no mention of the author, no talk about the book, no introduction of how the reviewer got to their opinion, etc. etc.  The review would read, \\"Books have been written for many years.  Recently there was one about the Tulipomania.  It didn't seem very good.\\"  And then off I'd go.  The style of prose is so difficult and taxing that it is problematic to describe in sufficient detail the way that it hinders the few facts that Mr. Dash bothered to dig up.<br />The facts, as I just mentioned, seem few and far between.  \\"Tulipomania\\" falls into a genre I think of as `Topical Histories' (good examples are \\"Cod\\" by M. Kurlansky, \\"The Professor and the Madman\\" by S. Winchester, \\"The Code Book\\" and \\"Fermat's Enigma\\" both by Singh).  All of these take topics and present a quick-paced well-researched all-encompassing view of a particular area of history and/or science.  \\"Tulipomania\\" never really does this.  The facts that are presented are not pursued very deeply, and instead seem to be repeated often and frequently.  The repetition begins to appear as an attempt to make up for the number of facts that are introduced, or possibly an attempt to get the reader just to accept them and move on.  Mr. Dash repeatedly introduces historical figures with their proper name, giving no further detail of who they are, or even elaborating on their relevance to the text.  The lengthy index records numerous proper names with a single reference, inserted and discarded without benefiting the story either factually or by bettering the human interest angle.<br />If you want to learn more about the Tulipomania go read the financial histories, \\"Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds\\" and \\"Confusi&oacute;n de Confusiones\\" which both treat the episode very well.  The only three tidbits that Mr. Dash adds are (I include them here to save you time): (i) the tulip originated in Asia, in Turkish provinces; (ii) the Ottoman Turks were important in the spreading of the flower, and (iii) there were other tulip manias, including one in France preceding the Dutch and others in Turkish areas afterwards.  Don't waste your time with this book.(good examples are \\"Cod\\" by M. Kurlansky, \\"The Professor and the Madman\\" by S. Winchester, \\"The Code Book\\" and \\"Fermat's Enigma\\" both by Singh).  All of these take topics and present a quick-paced well-researched all-encompassing view of a particular area of history and/or science.  \\"Tulipomania\\" never really does this.  The facts that are presented are not pursued very deeply, and instead seem to be repeated often and frequently.  The repetition begins to appear as an attempt to make up for the number of facts that are introduced, or possibly an attempt to get the reader just to accept them and move on.  Mr. Dash repeatedly introduces historical figures with their proper name, giving no further detail of who they are, or even elaborating on their relevance to the text.  The lengthy index records numerous proper names with a single reference, inserted and discarded without benefiting the story either factually or by bettering the human interest angle.<br />If you want to learn more about the Tulipomania go read the financial histories, \\"Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds\\" and \\"Confusión de Confusiones\\" which both treat the episode very well.  The only three tidbits that Mr. Dash adds are (I include them here to save you time): (i) the tulip originated in Asia, in Turkish provinces; (ii) the Ottoman Turks were important in the spreading of the flower, and (iii) there were other tulip manias, including one in France preceding the Dutch and others in Turkish areas afterwards.  Don't waste your time with this book.	2001-08-19
US	51177659	R1TG2WPE6XX4YI	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Important Message Clearly and Excitingly Told	This is a truly outstanding book.  Very rarely does one encounter a socio-economic book that has outstanding narration, solid historical perspectives, and clear, relevant data.  Mr. de Soto's thesis is beautifully simple, \\"Extra legal activities, those activities that exist outside of (not necessarily against, such as illegal) the law, are a fundamental aspect of society.  Those societies that have flourished (Europe, the US and developed Asia) are those that have broadened their legal sectors to incorporate and legalize those extra-legal activities.\\"  The author then goes on to demonstrate his point by focusing on property laws throughout the third world, documenting in fascinating detail the steps required to own a house in Egypt or the Philippines.<br />Despite these difficulties, ownership still occurs.  It does so, however, through extra-legal activities.  Local cooperatives that enforce and provide dispute resolution are key aspects of this society.  Mr. de Soto argues that these local cooperatives and organizations must be made part of the law; otherwise these countries will eternally lag the developed West.  To stop here would have been quite a book, and one which would illicit much debate, but here the author shows himself to be a researcher of particular talent, by providing us with several extremely relevant historical examples.  These examples, from the early US, show how extra-legal organizations, such as early mining organizations and land cooperatives in the frontier, came together to dictate how deeds were to be approved, provide safety to those who had settled and resolve disputes.  The many acts of the US government that would dictate how these items were to be \\"officially\\" handled were more often than not several years lagging in their development, and were merely the `officialization' of pre-existing extra-legal institutions.<br />The author takes us through his argument using wonderful prose, a clear argument and poignant tables.  Even those who might disagree with his point would appreciate this book.  He does a magnificent job of referencing relevant modern economic works, particularly those of Ronald Coase.  This book not only educates the reader about the argument the author puts forward, but also provides the reader with the education necessary to critically evaluate the method and supporting data of that argument.  Such books as this are rare, and this is why I highly recommend this book.<br />Points of Interest:<br />Metcalfe's Law (also commonly known as the network effect) described in detail according to its official definition.  \\"The value of a network - defined as its utility to a population - is roughly proportional to the number of users squared.  An example is the telephone network.  One telephone is useless: whom do you call?  Two telephones are better, but not much.  It is only when most of the population has a telephone that the power of the network reaches its full potential to change society.\\"  (Page 72)<br />The book contains the story of a slump in the Peruvian economy, with one of the indicators being a decrease in construction.  Further inspection revealed that sales of bags of cement were actually increasing. The extra-legal economy was booming, but uncounted.  (Page 76)<br />\\"Mandatory law is not enough.  As Andrzeg Rapaczynski has pointed out:... `This is the old Hobbesian problem: when most people obey the law, the government can enforce it effectively and [relatively] cheaply against the few individuals who break it.  But when obedience breaks down on a large enough scale, no authority is strong enough to police everyone....'\\" (Page 170)<br />\\"In the absence of legal protection from the state in most developing nations, it is extralegal law that regulates the assets of most citizens.\\" (Page 175)<br />\\"One large [extra-legal] squatter settlement I visited recently was initiated by the city council itself to provide homes for some 7,000 families of government employees.\\" (Page 177)<br />\\"Using economic data from fifty-two countries from 1960 to 1980, Samar K. Datta and Jefferey B. Nugent have shown that for every percentage point increase in the number of lawyers in the labor force (from say 0.5 to 1.5%), economic growth is reduced by 4.76 to 3.68 percent - thus showing that economic growth is inversely related to the prudence of lawyers.\\"  (Page 198)177)<br />\\"Using economic data from fifty-two countries from 1960 to 1980, Samar K. Datta and Jefferey B. Nugent have shown that for every percentage point increase in the number of lawyers in the labor force (from say 0.5 to 1.5%), economic growth is reduced by 4.76 to 3.68 percent - thus showing that economic growth is inversely related to the prudence of lawyers.\\"  (Page 198)	2001-08-18
US	51177659	RNAGFTWZ1UP7U	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Fun, Quick-Paced, Full of Action	This is a fun book to read.  I had never heard of Mr. Forester or these novels, and when they came recommended to me over a short period of time from several different sources, I picked up this, the first in the series chronologically (we meet a young Hornblower as he first joins His Majesty's Navy) and had a very good time reading it.  The book is a collection of short stories which occasionally build on each other.  The writing is blunt and to the point, the action fast paced, the life-lessons brutally self-apparent, but they are put together in a very entertaining manner which creates quite an enjoyable book.<br />I would compare the book to a historically placed Clive Cussler novel, or perhaps even a more modern and quickly told version of James Fenimore Cooper's Leather-Stocking Tales.<br />I recommend this to anyone who is looking for a light-hearted, fast-paced adventure novel that doesn't weigh too heavily on the soul.  I think this would be a great novel to read to/with kids.  I'm looking forward to reading some of the other books in the series.	2001-08-18
US	51177659	R1QDBCS27R0WJ1	156511471X	680620242	The World of Atlas Shrugged: The Essential Companion to Ayn Rand's Masterpiece	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Outstanding Supplement to &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot;	I enjoyed \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" and \\"The Fountainhead\\", and given their message, wouldn't be so bold as to review either.  It had been some years since I first read \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" so I purchased this audio disc as a refresher.  It couldn't have been a better decision.  The two discs walked quickly, but with ample detail, through the plot and major characters, drawing connections I hadn't noticed the first time I read the book, and giving some background as to Ms. Rand's thoughts when originally composing the text.  I do not know if I would call it the \\"Essential\\" companion, but it is quite good.  This Audio Disc makes a great companion to the book, providing just enough to make it worth reading, while not completely reciting the entire text.  I would suggest reading the book before listening to the disk as there are some areas of the plot that would be spoiled.  However, I do think if you wanted to gauge your interest before tackling the full text, this might not be a bad way to do so.<br />This is a good audio CD that accomplishes its task very efficiently.  It is a great summary of \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" with just the right amount of additional detail.	2001-08-18
US	51177659	R1SKIUAC07ZGF7	0385501560	729613164	Choke	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Typical Palahniuk = Excellent Book	I sat down and read this book in a day.  I haven't read &quot;Invisible Monsters&quot; yet.  I read &quot;Survivor&quot;, because I liked &quot;Fight Club&quot;.  I read &quot;Fight Club&quot; because I liked the movie.  I've enjoyed everything that Mr. Palahniuk has written for two main reasons, (i) I am part of the generation that he seeks to capture, caught in a culture that seems at times pointless and absurd, and (ii) you never know what to expect from his plot.<br />Another reviewer mentioned how tough it is to review one of Mr. Palahniuk's books - I couldn't agree more.  While I really enjoyed this book, part of that enjoyment came from its unpredictability, an element all to easily given away in a review.  I won't do that.  I do think that the only way to evaluate one of Mr. Palahniuk's books is by comparing it to his other books, and of the two I've read, this is the second best.  Nothing to do with its quality, just that I think &quot;Fight Club&quot; was really good, and I'm also probably biased there by the quality of the movie.  Victor, the lead character in &quot;Choke&quot; is as compelling as was Jack in &quot;Fight Club&quot;, and is much more enjoyable than was Tender Branson of &quot;Survivor.&quot;<br />This book is a much more personal plot, driven around Victor's search, than it is a plot about changing the world.  One almost wonders if Victor takes his name from Viktor Frankl, author of &quot;Man's Search for Meaning&quot; (a great book).  Victor spends the whole book searching for an answer to his mother's illness, an understanding of who he is, and a sense of purpose in the middle of a confusing world.<br />If you've read Palahniuk's works and enjoyed them, then I can't imagine how you wouldn't enjoy &quot;Choke.&quot;  All of his style and wit are on display, creating a very enjoyable book.  If you haven't read anything by Palahniuk, this isn't a bad book with which to start, no concerns over having seen the movie (&quot;Fightclub&quot;) or outrageous, all-encompassing plots (&quot;Survivor&quot;).  I very much enjoyed this book, and couldn't endorse it any more heavily than I am.outrageous, all-encompassing plots (&quot;Survivor&quot;).  I very much enjoyed this book, and couldn't endorse it any more heavily than I am.	2001-07-24
US	51177659	RM7F7U5TVLU88	0521642604	352936881	The New Financial Capitalists: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Creation of Corporate Value	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Detailed Treatment of early KKR-led LBO Financing	This is an outstanding academic treatment of the investments made by KKR, all of which were some kind of leveraged buy-out.  The authors focus their attention on the transactions themselves, not the way they were viewed by society or on the people that put them together - in this regard the book is a rare gem.  It treats the period up to 1990 in some depth, with some very interesting case studies that show pretty good financial detail with outstanding qualitative descriptions of the transactions that were put together.  As you walk through the various case studies, you are able to sit alongside with the KKR team and watch as the LBO goes from an unusual financial instrument to a mainstream product that is widely accepted in the marketplace.  While growing acceptance of financial products is an established facet of Wall Street, to follow this evolution through the work of a single firm really is quite interesting.  The manner in which the complexity, leverage and size of the transactions grow is laid out in plain English, making this a fascinating read.<br />Only Chapter 5 \\"KKR as an Institutional Form\\" focused on the firm itself, and even this treatment was not nearly as obsequious as many other financial books (most notably \\"Goldman Sachs: the Culture of Success\\" by Endlich).  Mr. Baker and Mr. Smith take a very level-headed approach and document the growth of the firm in a straight-forward manner, although they do inject a good deal of `positivity' to their view, i.e. the revolutionary introduction of Monday Morning Meeting's at KKR in the 1990's (this is commonplace at most banks).<br />I particularly enjoyed the second chapter \\"Recasting the Role of Debt\\" which talks about some of the earlier transactions that KKR did in some depth.  The description of their LBO of Houdaille is very much worth reading, if only for the fact that traditional `Old Economy' companies are again garnering such interest.  Indeed, that is a very noteworthy aspect of the whole book, KKR focused on established companies with real cash flows.  The one transaction which involved real growth financing was a near bust.  This is very different than all of the financial maneuvering that has gone on over the past two years, and it is interesting to compare the sustainability of the two efforts (the many years of KKR's existence surely triumphs over venture capital's recent 15 minutes  of fame).  Chapter 4 on \\"When Risk Becomes Real\\" talks about some of the failed KKR transactions, EFB Trucking and Eaton Leonard in some detail.  The reaction of KKR to these hiccups is very impressive, and while it is told with the same `positivity' of the authors as mentioned above, the authors still do a good job of telling the story in an objective manner.  The efforts of the partners to maintaining KKR's reputation in the marketplace is nothing short of heroic, and while there was a clear financial incentive over the short term it is clear that the longer term reputation of the company also played a clear role in motivating their actions.<br />It really is rare to get a book as good as this with detailed financial information (even if it is more than 10 years old) and a mostly unbiased view of the Company.  Where the authors are biased, it is easy to pick up and interpret.  This is very much an academic treatment of the firm, with some detail as to what the rest of the market was doing, but not a whole lot.  There are just the right number of graphs, which is very nice.  I would think anybody working in finance would enjoy this book, although given the depth in which it describes the transactions, it might not be the most leisurely read.  This is an outstanding book.focused on established companies with real cash flows.  The one transaction which involved real growth financing was a near bust.  This is very different than all of the financial maneuvering that has gone on over the past two years, and it is interesting to compare the sustainability of the two efforts (the many years of KKR's existence surely triumphs over venture capital's recent 15 minutes  of fame).  Chapter 4 on \\"When Risk Becomes Real\\" talks about some of the failed KKR transactions, EFB Trucking and Eaton Leonard in some detail.  The reaction of KKR to these hiccups is very impressive, and while it is told with the same `positivity' of the authors as mentioned above, the authors still do a good job of telling the story in an objective manner.  The efforts of the partners to maintaining KKR's reputation in the marketplace is nothing short of heroic, and while there was a clear financial incentive over the short term it is clear that the longer term reputation of the company also played a clear role in motivating their actions.<br />It really is rare to get a book as good as this with detailed financial information (even if it is more than 10 years old) and a mostly unbiased view of the Company.  Where the authors are biased, it is easy to pick up and interpret.  This is very much an academic treatment of the firm, with some detail as to what the rest of the market was doing, but not a whole lot.  There are just the right number of graphs, which is very nice.  I would think anybody working in finance would enjoy this book, although given the depth in which it describes the transactions, it might not be the most leisurely read.  This is an outstanding book.	2001-05-25
US	51177659	R18TS306SVLDQZ	0415926351	440326304	My Job, My Self: Work and the Creation of the Modern Individual	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Thorough, Data-Filled, Academic Treatment of Modern Work	After finishing this book, all I can say is \\"wow.\\"  Mr. Gini is clearly one of the more knowledgeable people on the subject of work and its changing role in modern society.  This book is masterfully well written and demonstrates a sound knowledge of the subject matter, which is presented in a very well thought out and logically presented manner.  The scope of the subject matter being very broad, the author's ability to envelope it and treat so many aspects of it in such depth was really remarkable.  There is an amazing amount of information presented within the book, a plethora of footnotes, and yet the book is not imposing - it is in fact rewarding because of all it.<br />While the entire book was fascinating, I thought that there were four chapters in particular that were outstanding.  Chapter 7 \\"Women in the Workplace\\", Chapter 8 \\"Squeezing Time\\", Chapter 10 \\"Work Spend and Debt Syndrome\\", and Chapter 12 \\"The End of Work, is Rifkin Right?\\" all cover enough detail to be books of their own, Mr. Gini references many other books which do just that.  \\"Women in the Workplace\\" explores the many remarkable facets of how the increasing penetration of women into the workforce has changed our society, and how society has driven those changes.  \\"Squeezing Time\\" talks of the incredible shrinking of free time in modern society compared to those of years gone by.  The author sees this as a natural extension of the Industrial Revolution, and has the data to back up this view.  \\"Work Spend and Debt Syndrome\\" talks about the shift in society to one of people with lives to one of people as consumers.  The similarities between this and \\"Bobos in Paradise\\" by Brooks is startling.  Mr. Gini demonstrates qualitatively and quantitatively how we have become a consumer society, and shows us what exactly that means.  \\"The End of Work, is Rifkin Right?\\" is an amazing chapter (partly because I agree with his points very strongly) in which the author looks at the some of the questions posed by Mr. Jeremy Rifkin and Mr. Robert Heilbroner in their 1996 book.  Their main point had been that the increase in productivity caused by the personal computer had yet to fully ripple through the workplace, and that as it did so we would see waves of greater and greater unemployment.  Mr. Gini takes a look at this view four years later, and is cautious to not deliver an aggressive verdict.<br />One of the more interesting things I found about this book, other than the points that the author brought forth and the views of society that he projected, was that it almost had a self-help aspect to it.  There is an amazing amount of comfort behind statistics in which \\"85% of all workers felt __\\", especially when the blank is filled in with something you feel as well.  In that manner, there were parts of this book that evoked similar themes to \\"A Man's Search for Meaning\\" by Viktor Frankl, something that completely surprised me.  This is by no means a central tenement to the text, but its effect was certainly worth noting, and really added strongly to the value of the book.<br />I couldn't recommend this book anymore strongly.  It would be of great value to anyone who is working, trying to figure out what they should be doing with their lives, or is looking to do research on the changing role of work within society.  This is an outstanding book.by Mr. Jeremy Rifkin and Mr. Robert Heilbroner in their 1996 book.  Their main point had been that the increase in productivity caused by the personal computer had yet to fully ripple through the workplace, and that as it did so we would see waves of greater and greater unemployment.  Mr. Gini takes a look at this view four years later, and is cautious to not deliver an aggressive verdict. <br />One of the more interesting things I found about this book, other than the points that the author brought forth and the views of society that he projected, was that it almost had a self-help aspect to it.  There is an amazing amount of comfort behind statistics in which \\"85% of all workers felt __\\", especially when the blank is filled in with something you feel as well.  In that manner, there were parts of this book that evoked similar themes to \\"A Man's Search for Meaning\\" by Viktor Frankl, something that completely surprised me.  This is by no means a central tenement to the text, but its effect was certainly worth noting, and really added strongly to the value of the book.<br />I couldn't recommend this book anymore strongly.  It would be of great value to anyone who is working, trying to figure out what they should be doing with their lives, or is looking to do research on the changing role of work within society.  This is an outstanding book.	2001-05-25
US	51177659	R389JRPTXNYZK4	0375404368	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AUDIO CD REVIEW: Great Reader, Great Battles, Great Listen	This is an outstanding Audio CD.  It has a great plot and an excellent narrator, making it one of the better Audio CDs currently available.  Fiction audiodiscs can be very hit or miss, and on the whole I would not normally purchase one.  This being Michael Crichton, I figured &#8216;what the heck&#8217; and was very well rewarded.  Gas was at... a gallon and I still found myself doing extra errands so that I could finish listening to this book while in the car, where my CD player is.<br />The plot has the same kind of modern day usage of extraordinary technology that is common to other of Mr. Crichton&#8217;s novels, such as Jurassic Park, Sphere, Andromeda Strain and The Terminal Man.  Here we encounter modern day time travel.  We are soon set about two intertwining plots, as the author does in his typical outstanding fashion.  The first involves several historians / archaeologists sent back to medieval France, the second the efforts of a team of scientists working frantically in the American Southwest to bring them back.  There are some familiar Crichton-esque characters, an evil owner of the technology who only looks for profit (who seems pulled from the newspaper pages about evil start-up bosses), two young scientists who become romantically involved despite their tremendous differences, and a protagonist whose eagerness to experience that which he has always studied blinds him to the potential dangers.<br />That being said, even a typical &#8216;more of the same&#8217; Michael Crichton novel is better than the drivel that many other authors put together.  The scenes from the 14th century are fascinating, the research that the author put into his subject matter is obvious, and the complexity of the plot rewarding.  This is a very good book, despite the fact that many of its elements are not new to Mr. Crichton&#8217;s writing.  The reader does a very good job of keeping the voices of the different characters succinct, and the abridgment really kept the pace moving quickly, while not letting the listener get confused.  This really was an outstanding Audio CD, and I would very much recommend it to anyone.moving quickly, while not letting the listener get confused.  This really was an outstanding Audio CD, and I would very much recommend it to anyone.	2001-05-25
US	51177659	R2CREINQPDBZRP	0671797182	366654665	The Mind of God: The Scientific Basis for a Rational World	Books	1	22	39	N	Y	Great Book for Mathematical Physicists - which I am not	Finally, on Pg.206 (of 232) Mr. Davies remarks, &quot;As I have remarked once or twice already, it is very difficult to communicate the concept of nature's mathematical subtlety to those unacquainted with mathematical physics, yet to the scientists involved, what I am referring to is clear enough.&quot;  I did not note the first one or two times that the author said this, it must have been buried within the unstructured text which waxed eloquently for page after page without driving to a point.  This is clearly not a book for anybody but scientists who enjoy mathematical physicists.  Having persevered through enough collegiate physics, mathematics and chemistry classes to scar my GPA, I thought that this book would be a difficult, but achievable read, with the author serving as a coach to get me through.  Instead he served as more of an obstacle.<br />There is no doubt that the author is well versed in his subject matter.  He is not, however, well-versed in making his subject matter easily understood.  The chapters are loosely constructed and rambling.  There are numerous references back to other parts of the text (such as, \\"As I mentioned in the previous chapter,\\" or, \\"As stated in Chapter __\\").  These references are made in such a way as to seriously undermine, rather than compliment, the difficult ideas that the author is presenting.  On top of that, the author makes reference to other books in such volume that one wonders if this would better be called a summary of the subject area, rather than an original text.  Indeed, references to Mr. Stephen Hawking's books are so common it felt as if I were reading the Cliff's Notes.<br />There were several areas where the author did present some interesting ideas, the computer-based `life' simulation, the ability to view the universe as a computer and of course, the Hawking reference of the world on the back of a turtle.  All very interesting.  However, I felt like an archaeologist sifting through endless piles of dirt to find the occasional item of interest.  This book is probably perfect for people who are very well versed in mathematical physics and want to delve further into the philosophical consequences of that area of study.  The quotes on the back of the book from all the common book review sources make this seem like an easy, introductory read, when it isn't.  If you're not a mathematical physicist, leave it for the people that are.find the occasional item of interest.  This book is probably perfect for people who are very well versed in mathematical physics and want to delve further into the philosophical consequences of that area of study.  The quotes on the back of the book from all the common book review sources make this seem like an easy, introductory read, when it isn't.  If you're not a mathematical physicist, leave it for the people that are.	2001-05-17
US	51177659	R3BE3U2PGP9KAE	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Unopiniated, Journalistic Retelling of a major US Battle	The title proclaims that this is a &quot;Story of Modern War&quot;, which is completely true, as it is not a story of modern politics, weapons, foreign policy, African society or US Army.  It is the story of how all of these items come to play over a 48 hour battle which is the longest fire fight the US has been involved with since the Vietnam War.  The author, Mr. Mark Bowden has assembled the action through countless interviews with the many people that were part of the battle, even including those that fought against the US and UN task force.  The narrative flows in a manner which reflects its origins through the eyes of those that were there.  There are no digressions towards the history of Somalia, modern infantry tactics or attempts to pass judgment on the appropriateness of the mission.  Instead, the reader is quickly tossed into the firefight, seeing it through the eyes of the soldiers almost as if you could smell the gunfire and taste the Somali Chak.<br />The story is very well told, and while there are moments that additional background information would be beneficial, its absence does not seriously impede the overall quality of the text.  The story is very fast-paced and it is clear that Mr. Bowden has done his homework.  The final chapter, in which the author relates how he came to tell this story is both interesting and compelling. I don't know if the author would consider this a compliment (I hope it is taken as such), but many of the fight scenes read as if they were out of a Tom Clancy novel.  They are very well written, and the emotions of those involved is well committed to paper.  There aren't many military histories that make the reader feel the pain of a bullet-wound, the fear of a fire-fight or the confusion of battle, but here Mr. Bowden has succeeded marvelously.  The book creates even greater respect for the troops involved, Delta Force, Army Rangers and SEALS are already very well respected for good reasons. I particularly enjoyed the scenes where the Army Rangers realize that the high-tech armor-piercing bullets that they are using are in fact too good- the bullets are passing through the unarmored Somali opposition and not injuring them enough to stop them.  This is a particularly poignant metaphor for the entire battle.<br />So what, other than a great book, does this leave us with? It is unique to find a modern author that doesn't fill their book with pre-fabricated thoughts and opinions, but Mr. Bowden has done just that, allowing the reader to interpret this battle, the death of US soldiers that it caused and the socio-political system out of which it arose. (In this he is similar to both Anthony Birley, author of \\"Hadrian: the Restless Emperor\\" and Lisa Jardine, who has written two excellent histories of the Scientific Revolution and the Renaissance.) These are all important things to contemplate, which provides the reader with a book of strong merit not just for the story it tells, but also for the bigger portrait that it paints.es where the Army Rangers realize that the high-tech armor-piercing bullets that they are using are in fact too good- the bullets are passing through the unarmored Somali opposition and not injuring them enough to stop them.  This is a particularly poignant metaphor for the entire battle.<br />So what, other than a great book, does this leave us with? It is unique to find a modern author that doesn't fill their book with pre-fabricated thoughts and opinions, but Mr. Bowden has done just that, allowing the reader to interpret this battle, the death of US soldiers that it caused and the socio-political system out of which it arose. (In this he is similar to both Anthony Birley, author of \\"Hadrian: the Restless Emperor\\" and Lisa Jardine, who has written two excellent histories of the Scientific Revolution and the Renaissance.) These are all important things to contemplate, which provides the reader with a book of strong merit not just for the story it tells, but also for the bigger portrait that it paints.	2001-05-03
US	51177659	R2IWC2ZJZBUBTF	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	46	59	N	Y	Unique Look at Modern American Life by a Great Author	I read Survivor because I really liked Mr. Palahniuk's first book, &quot;Fight Club&quot;, and I read &quot;Fight Club&quot; because I thought the movie was great.  &quot;Survivor&quot; is a great book, despite it's thematic similarity to Fight Club. The plot on the other hand is very different, although some of the characters seem very familiar to ones from the author's first book.  I wanted to be sure not to spoil the plot, one of the difficulties I had with &quot;Fight Club&quot; was my knowledge of the basic premise through having seen the movie (although I do feel there are enough differences to merit a reading of that book), however the entire plot is spelled out on the back cover of the book. Avoid that if you would like some surprises.<br />Mr. Palahniuk has again succeeded in creating a very unusual plot, which is as good as that of &quot;Fight Club&quot;, but its primarily used as a vehicle to provide the same lambasting of modern society that &quot;Fight Club&quot; provided.  The lambasting takes some new turns and has a few new targets (although cornflower blue does make a return), but the method is the same.  The characters are written in much the same method and the book-ending cataclysm is very similar.  While I do hope that the next book of his that I read, &quot;Monster&quot; is different than his first two books, I was still very pleased with &quot;Survivor&quot;.  The reason is very simple, while the two books are similar, they are both so drastically different in both style and character development than the rest of the books out there that they are very compelling and thought-provoking reads.  There are few authors capable of delivering the same sophisticated, yet still blunt, critique of both the excesses and shallowness of modern American mass society.  In this end, the author succeeds in reaching a more convenient tone than have many other authors with similar messages, such as Pynchon, Camut or Thoreau.<br />It is the delivery of this critique that makes Mr. Palahniuk such a promising author (please note as of this review I still haven't read his third book, &quot;Monster&quot;).  Criticism of the many contradictions of modern society is as easy to find in literature as the faults themselves while walking the street, however, the author delivers the blows using a masterful combination of both hyperbole, subtlety and the voice of his characters that the words are received with both laughter and disdain.  If Mr. Palahniuk continues to use these methods as he has in his first two books, his works can only become more interesting.  I thought this was an excellent book, and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in modern literature.ue that makes Mr. Palahniuk such a promising author (please note as of this review I still haven't read his third book, &quot;Monster&quot;).  Criticism of the many contradictions of modern society is as easy to find in literature as the faults themselves while walking the street, however, the author delivers the blows using a masterful combination of both hyperbole, subtlety and the voice of his characters that the words are received with both laughter and disdain.  If Mr. Palahniuk continues to use these methods as he has in his first two books, his works can only become more interesting.  I thought this was an excellent book, and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in modern literature.	2001-05-03
US	51177659	R2MD30DL639N9G	0806986719	323794669	Challenging Lateral Thinking Puzzles	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Good Intro to Lateral Thinking Puzzles	I picked up this book after completing &quot;Archimedes Bathtub; the Art and Logic of Breakthrough Thinking&quot; by David Perkins.  The book expounded on the benefits of this genre of mind puzzle, and I wanted to check out some of them for myself.  I was a bit disappointed  in what I found for several reasons; the puzzles were identical to the most common puzzles I had come across (including &quot;There's a man coming home&quot;); many of the same puzzles can be found on any of the multiple lateral thinking websites; and finally many of them were so laden with historical knowledge that the problem was more a test of trivia knowledge than what could be considered a true lateral thinking puzzle.<br />That being said, the book was well put together with good hints and final answers located far enough from the answer so as to prevent haphazard skipping ahead to answers.  Some of the puzzles were quite ingenious, and there were two review 'tests' which allowed you to monitor your progress.  It is very clear that the author had spent some time with the puzzles, and the illustrations, while corny, did help to break up what would otherwise be a very short book.  While the book was somewhat disappointing in the aforementioned areas, it did succeed in its most basic claim, and for that reason I would recommend it to anyone looking to learn a little bit more about the subject, as I imagine the book to be as good as any available (who knows, I may yet read a second).<br />If you are already well-versed in lateral thinking puzzles, this might not be the book for you. If you are looking to find out more about them, this is probably as good a place to start as any.	2001-05-03
US	51177659	RJDFGGVFDW4BK	0521398320	864817028	The Fall of Constantinople 1453 (Canto)	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	A True History Better than any Fiction	There are few historical events that conjure up the adventure, drama and pation of the fall of Constantinople; Barbarian hordes, age old empires, tremendous siege engines, feuding merchant states, conflicted religious leaders, age old prophecies of doom (or victory depending on your view), naval battles and finally a philosopher emperor who having failed to get the outside support his city needs to survive, dies at the hands of the enemy while defending the city's walls, his body never to be found.  This book tells the story of the final empire of the Greeks, as if told by a story-teller rocking in a chair by a fire.  The story is that good, the characters, their motives and actions are all that good, and they are all true.  Some of my favorite parts were the descriptions of the Sultan's Janissaries, and the work of Urban, the canon builder that Constantine turned away, and who Mehmet was only too eager to hire.<br />If you enjoyed any of Norwich's books on the rise and fall of Byzantium, then this book serves as an excellent conclusion. The author, Mr. Runciman, does a fantastic job of detailing the story, placing it in its appropriate historical time frame and setting the record straight on many elements.  One of his central tenemants is the arbitrary nature of defining Constantinople's fall as the 'end' of the Dark Ages, and he does a convincing job of making his point that many of the effects often ascribed to the fall had long been in process.  First published in 1965, this is by no means the latest re-telling of this event, but its ability to stand the test of time certainly reinforces that it is one of, if not outright, the best.  The only disadvantage that may be age related is that it would be nice to have a few more, and perhaps better organized maps and figures that went along with the text.<br />I highly recommend this book, it would be of interest to anyone wanting to learn more about Constantinople, Greek history, Turkish history, Islaamic history, the early Renaissance, and the intricacies of Papal, Venetian and Genoan relations.  This is also a great book for anyone who is just looking for a good book.early Renaissance, and the intricacies of Papal, Venetian and Genoan relations.  This is also a great book for anyone who is just looking for a good book.	2001-04-26
US	51177659	R2C4PVMWSC19ZA	0486234002	67819620	Geometry, Relativity and the Fourth Dimension (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	57	58	N	Y	Solid Intro to Special Relativity and Non-Euclidean Geometry	In his own introduction the author, Mr. R. Rucker, states, &quot;My goal has been to present an intuitive picture of the curved space-time we call home. There are a number of excellent introductions to the separate topics treated here, but there has been no prior weaving of them into a sustained visual account.  I looked for a book like this for many years- and finding none, I wrote it.&quot; His dedication has been rewarded, as the text is one of the finer introductory books on the curvature of space time and special relativity.<br />The 'book like this' as the author calls it, walks the reader through several visual explanations that allow a solid mathematical and graphical explanation of modern physics.  This isn't always a simple explanation, but there is a certain reward to struggling with the concepts before understanding them. In particular, Chapter 4 on time as a higher dimension makes the entire book worth reading, with many fascinating examples and a host of thought-provoking examples, such as &quot;Schrodinger's Cat.&quot;<br />This is a very interesting book which would be of use to anyone who wishes to push just a little bit further than the typical popular physics text.  For those who wish to push even further to solidify their knowledge, there are even questions at the end of each chapter.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-04-25
US	51177659	R1LG9UVNAQ1GSF	0195129113	905390222	Beyond Engineering: How Society Shapes Technology (Sloan Technology)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Outstanding Thematic Study of Society and Technology	Beyond Engineering is the brightest of the many shining stars that make up the Sloan Technology Series.  It is easily the most educational, enlightening and thought provoking (&quot;The One Best Way&quot; by Kanigel being a close second) of the series, and will be the barometer by which I personally measure all future popular technology books.  Mr. Pool looks at the way in which technology and society shape each other by looking at eight key elements of these interactions. These areas form the chapters of Beyond Engineering, with Mr. Pool frequently using many poignant technological case studies, biotechnology, steam powered automobiles, the Xerox Alto, and many others.  The recurring case study which unites the book is that of the nuclear power industry in the U.S. Despite the non-chronological nature of this story, it is told thoroughly, using just the right amount of technical explanation to explain without overwhelming.<br />Indeed, Mr.Pool began his book as a history of the US Nuclear Power Industry, but changed his topic as several other authors beat him to it (&quot;Nuclear Choices&quot; by R. Wolfson and &quot;Nuclear Renewal&quot; by R. Rhodes).  It is a good thing they did, otherwise he would not have looked at this as merely a case study, in which to frame socio-technological interaction.  The eight areas that are covered; momentum, idea creation, business, complexity, choices, risk, control and trade-offs are very quickly paced and liberally sprinkled with very poignant references.  His thematic review of the subject matter is similar to the author Lisa Jardine's histories of the Renaissance and Scientific Revolution.  The most frequently referred to text is Kuhn's classic &quot;The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.&quot;  This book could be viewed as the technological adaptation of Kuhn's scientific applications.<br />There are no ways in which the text disappoints, and it would be difficult to endorse it any more enthusiastically than I am.  This book will be of benefit to anyone that works in technology, has a general interest in that area, is curious about nuclear power, or is simply looking for a good book.ok will be of benefit to anyone that works in technology, has a general interest in that area, is curious about nuclear power, or is simply looking for a good book.	2001-04-24
US	51177659	R3HFJAVJ4OT596	0385720017	868309573	Ingenious Pursuits: Building the Scientific Revolution	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	A Different Look at the Scientific Revolution	This is a fantastic book that makes great usage of first-hand quotes, pictures and other original source information to provide a look at the interactions between the great scientists of 1600's and 1700's that was the Scientific Revolution.  Ms. Jardine doesn't simply provide a history of a single organization, although she spends a lot of time with the Royal Society of London, or a single individual, although Hooke and Newton figure prominently, or a defining event, although the Great Fire in London is brought up on multiple occasions.  Ms. Jardine doesn't focus on any one area, but instead provides the reader with the flavor of the Scientific Revolution, instilling an understanding of the way that these great minds interacted, and how they worked both with and against one another in the race for discovery.<br />In the end the author winds the reader through a description of how astronomy, medicine, taxonomy, chemistry, physics, mathematics and a multitude of other fields all intertwined to create the scientific revolution.  It was the actions of the scientists as travelers, architects, authors and even guinea pigs that set the stage for the growth in our understanding of the natural world.  Ms. Jardine tells us these tales in an unassuming manner, without putting forth a thesis, thereby allowing the reader to create their own thoughts on the matter.  For the epilogue, she tells a similar story of Watson &amp; Crick's discovery of DNA, thereby showing that the same round-about manner of discovery and development is an important element of modern science.<br />This is a good book that looks at this important period of time in a manner just different enough from other existing books to make it very much worth reading.  I highly recommend it.	2001-03-11
US	51177659	R25JFOSCUA49N	0553712462	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Good Story, Worth listening despite Faults (AUDIO CD REVIEW)	I listened to this book because I was interested in learning more about the flag-raising, was unfamiliar with the specifics of the battle of Iwo Jima, had heard many 'myths' about the photo (ie it was staged), and was intrigued by the concept of following the lives of these six men from cradle to grave while focusing on their heroic efforts on foreign sands.  The book responded to all of these issues in a clear and concise manner.  The reader (the mayor from Spin City) was very good, and I have no complaints about his work.<br />The author is the son of one of the flag raisers, the only one to have a 'normal' life and one of only 3 to make it back to the US alive.  Many parts of the book are very interesting, the description of Japanese fortifications on Iwo, the training of the Marines prior to the invasion, the strategic importance of Iwo the US, the symbolic importance to the Japanese, and also some of the methods and techniques used in battle by both sides.  Those areas of the book were absolutely fascinating, and could not have been better written.  I was a bit disappointed with some of the descriptions of the lives of the soldiers involved, at times they were too overdone, and it seemed in doing so some respect was lost for the services they rendered to their country.  By making them at times a bit too overly patriotic, American, modest and tragic, it seemed as if there was a need to &quot;spruce up&quot; their lives, when a more honest rendition would have been equally touching.<br />That being said, the author gets his point across through these soldiers lives. They were the everyman, a portrait of the men that fought in WW2 and are symbols of the American spirit.  The trials that they endured, the lives that they lived are examples of America at its finest.  They deserve our respect.  I was fascinated by the story of Ira Hayes (the lone Native American flag raiser, of Johnny Cash song fame).<br />There were many stories that were difficult to listen to without bringing a tear to the eye, the stories of mothers losing sons, families wrought apart and courageous acts of valor, are simply overwhelming.  The story of Ralph Ignatowski (friend of the authors father) was so difficult to listen to that I had to stop the CD player several times.  In the end the author roles the stories of these young men into a well-told tale that overcomes some of its own weaknesses to produce a fine, well-recorded and abridged Audio CD.thout bringing a tear to the eye, the stories of mothers losing sons, families wrought apart and courageous acts of valor, are simply overwhelming.  The story of Ralph Ignatowski (friend of the authors father) was so difficult to listen to that I had to stop the CD player several times.  In the end the author roles the stories of these young men into a well-told tale that overcomes some of its own weaknesses to produce a fine, well-recorded and abridged Audio CD.	2001-03-10
US	51177659	RC5TW4JSEDBGS	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Humorous/Thoughtful Look at Modern Views of the Civil War	&quot;Confederates in the Attic&quot; is the first hand account of the author's attempt to understand our modern (c. 1998) views of the Civil War, and how they stack up against the actual war.  This is done in a well-written, very humorous, fast-paced travel log style that is highly entertaining and difficult to put down.  It is written in the same spirit as Bill Bryson's books, a light hearted, honest description of the events the author, Mr. Horwitz manages to get himself into, portrayed alongside honest factual histories of the Civil War.  This couldn't be a better book.<br />The author wanders through the South, mainly because that is where all of the battles were fought, interviewing authors of well-known Civil War books, re-enactors, the last widow of a Civil War veteran, pro-Rebel Flag supporters, and participants in the civil rights movement.  This is all interwoven to a tell a gripping story of our interpretation of the past, modern American race relations, motivations behind the war, and how many of the issues behind the war remain bitter to this day.  I particularly enjoyed the sections with Mr. Robert Lee Hodge, a re-enactor who provides the author with some of his best material, both humorous, dramatic and touching.  Also, as I currently live in Atlanta, the chapter on the &quot;Capital of the South&quot; was very interesting, providing a surprisingly accurate and pointed description of the way which the war is viewed.  Amid all of these descriptions the author inserts just the right amount of actual Civil War history, allowing even those who aren't up to speed on the activities of the war to reflect on what it has become.<br />This book is very well written and I could not recommend it more.	2001-03-10
US	51177659	R3A2BAKC1XADUJ	0679450882	451221103	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	4	10	11	N	N	1100 Years of History, Quickly told and Full of Life	Norwich's shorter, colleted version of his three larger works bears many similarities to the many condensed version of Gibbon's classic &quot;The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.&quot;  Norwich's piece, having been written more recently moves at a much quicker pace and is not restrained by more antiquated language.  Chapter by chapter the author fires blazing tales of corruption, intrigue, scandal, war and devastation.  I particularly enjoyed the pieces pertaining to the reigns of Constantine (particularly the background around his conversion), Theodosius the Great, Justinian, and Basil II.<br />These are fascinating stories, and the author makes sure to put them in the proper historical frame, to let the reader understand what else was happening in the world as Byzantium continued to shine as the lone beacon from the collapsed Roman Empire.  As other historical characters fade in and out of Byzantium's historical spotlight, Mr. Norwich is careful to provide them with a proper introduction, allowing the reader to understand their motives and ambitions.<br />One of the reasons I found this history so interesting is because it is so new.  We learn so little about this culture through traditional American history classes that all of this information is enlightening.  Mr. Norwich does lament this fact towards the end of the book, and he has certainly done a good job of helping correct this oversight.	2001-02-19
US	51177659	R3C9VZ8C8KXYFY	0679450882	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	4	1	1	N	N	1100 Years of History, Quickly told and Full of Life	Norwich's shorter, colleted version of his three larger works bears many similarities to the many condensed version of Gibbon's classic &quot;The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.&quot;  Norwich's piece, having been written more recently moves at a much quicker pace and is not restrained by more antiquated language.  Chapter by chapter the author fires blazing tales of corruption, intrigue, scandal, war and devastation.  I particularly enjoyed the pieces pertaining to the reigns of Constantine (particularly the background around his conversion), Theodosius the Great, Justinian, and Basil II.<br />These are fascinating stories, and the author makes sure to put them in the proper historical frame, to let the reader understand what else was happening in the world as Byzantium continued to shine as the lone beacon from the collapsed Roman Empire.  As other historical characters fade in and out of Byzantium's historical spotlight, Mr. Norwich is careful to provide them with a proper introduction, allowing the reader to understand their motives and ambitions.<br />One of the reasons I found this history so interesting is because it is so new.  We learn so little about this culture through traditional American history classes that all of this information is enlightening.  Mr. Norwich does lament this fact towards the end of the book, and he has certainly done a good job of helping correct this oversight.	2001-02-19
US	51177659	R30TNB4BJ8BV21	0394532368	144444453	Funny Money	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Okiesmo Lives	Growing up in Oklahoma my only real memory of the Penn Square Bank failure was when they pulled down the red-piggy-bank logo from the top of the building.  It was something that was talked about on the national news every evening, but it wasn't well understood just how such a small local bank could cause such a ruckus.<br />Mr. Singer's book explains what was at the bottom of all of the trouble, how Penn Square fell from grace, and in the process of doing so provides interesting commentary on Oklahoma culture, as well as some history and other facts pertaining to the oil business.  The book is very well written and quick paced, providing just enough detail to be considered in depth, while not languishing on unnecessary detail.<br />It is interesting to remark that the same conditions that caused everyone to say oil at $100 per barrel was a no-brainer are  those that caused people to put forth the indestructible nature of internet-retailing.  The Okiesmo of wildcats in pursuit of oil bears striking resemblance to the aggressive idiocy of venture capitalists fighting to put money into business plans that ignored common sense.<br />This book is satisfying on a lot of levels, the depth of information on the figures behind the bankruptcy, the environment that spawned and incented those figures and also the culture, both nationally and locally, which created this collapse.  This is a very interesting book, and I highly recommend it.	2001-02-19
US	51177659	R3O2E765U49PE	041516544X	458844137	Hadrian: The Restless Emperor (Roman Imperial Biographies)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Classicly Written History of a Fascinating Emperor	This history is written using only the best source material and is an attempt to portray the events and actions of Hadrian's life with only limited attempts to analyze the thoughts that led to his actions.  Mr. Birley does a very good job of presenting the information as such, but if you are hoping to be told the greater meaning or deeper consequences of Hadrian's actions, then this is not the book that you are looking for.  In no way shape or form does the author attempt to take a 'big picture' look at Hadrian.<br />That being said, the author does a fantastic job of writing about Hadrian's life.  By merely portraying the actions of this, Rome's &quot;Wandering Emperor&quot; we get a glimpse of a somewhat tragic historical figure and the actions of his rule.  It is very intriguing, and there are many odd parallels to his rule and that of recent political figures.<br />This is a good book, despite the fact that it is at times laborious to get through.  Hadrian is clearly depicted and the reader is left to formulate their own opinions - a refreshing change from many of the currently available histories.	2001-02-18
US	51177659	R2ALR59XIHO6FC	0694523089	465406313	The American President	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Audio CD- Great Book and Good Reader make a Great Listen	It seems increasingly rare that you get all three desirable elements within an unabridged audio CD; a good story, a good reader and a presentation that is easy to understand.  This Audio CD succeeds on all three accounts.<br />The author's material lends itself to a book that is easily listened to.  The three Mr. Kunhardts have analyzed all of the country's presidents by grouping them into ten categories, Heroic Posture, Compromise Choices, Professional Politicians, Independent Casts of Mind, Family Ties, Happenstance, The American Way, the World Stage, Expanding Power and Balance of Power.  You'll be surprised to see where the authors have placed various presidents.  I especially enjoyed the pieces about Hoover, McKinley, Polk and Taft.  This quick and easy breakdown allows the authors to spend about 8 - 12 minutes of reading time per president, making it easy to digest as you listen to.  They focus on the major highlights of their presidencies, and by comparing them to others within their respective category, make some enlightening points about American history.  This is one of the first audio CDs I've listened where purchasing the text is an appealing proposition.  The reader does a very good job of seriously reading the parts without overdoing it.  They use a second reader for various direct quotes of the presidents.<br />This is a very good Audio CD.  I recommend it.	2001-02-18
US	51177659	R3U5ZIX61JD7V8	0140278796	503864588	Fiasco: The Inside Story of a Wall Street Trader	Books	3	42	44	N	Y	A Few good parts, A Few bad ones, Overall worth reading	There are several very interesting parts of this book, the most notable being the chapters (4, 7 - 10) in which Mr. Partnoy gives a high level description of some of the transactions that he was involved in.  Some of his anecdotes, particularly those in which he discusses the atmosphere in an investment bank around bonus time (pg.40 - 42, 202 - 205), are pretty amusing and dead on accurate.  The author's descriptions of some of his deals are clearly told from a junior banker's perspective, but they do a good job of putting forth what was being done, how it was being done, what everyone's perceived incentives for the transaction were, the work required to get the deal done, what kind of money, and importantly what kind of fees were involved.  In this regard, the book offers more than both &quot;Liar's Poker&quot; by Lewis and &quot;When Genius Failed&quot; by Lowenstein.<br />Like all books written by former investment bankers the book contains liberally sprinkled anecdotes regarding job interviews from hell, the ridiculous daily escapades that can occur on a trading floor, strip clubs, the lack of personal lives, gambling trips and other stories which could easily have been pulled from the pages of Mr. Lewis's book or &quot;Monkey Business&quot; by Rolfe and Troob.  All of these shenanigans culminate around the bank's (in this case Morgan Stanley), or more specifically, his group's annual sporting clay outing, FIASCO.  The book also suffers from a somewhat poorly defined timeline and the lack of a defining event which drives the story.  Due to these faults, it is at times little more than a book about the evils of investment bankers, the ignorance of their customers, all put forward to enforce Mr. Partnoy's somewhat guarded thesis; Derivatives are used by organizations that are legally prevented from investing in certain areas in order to skirt those laws.<br />This is a good book that could have been better, the occasions where it shine through make it worth reading, but also unfortunately let us know the author could have produced a somewhat better product.g, but also unfortunately let us know the author could have produced a somewhat better product.	2001-02-18
US	51177659	RRQVX8P4M8J7P	0226458083	89443239	The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Books	5	41	48	N	Y	Highly Recommended for a Reason	This book frequently pops up on a &quot;Top 100&quot; or &quot;Best Science Book&quot; or some other list for a reason: Mr. Kuhn was the first person to step back and look at the complex way in which science and scientific study have advanced over the course of humanity and try to put those observations forth in a logical manner.  He succeeded brilliantly.<br />Mr. Kuhn's main point is that there are two phases of scientific discovery, &quot;normal science&quot; which is built on established principals, rounding out gaps in existing theories until the theories begin to unravel, at which point we have entered a period which will require a &quot;paradigm shift&quot;.  Mr. Kuhn takes the reader through multiple historical examples, the shifts in scientific thought brought about by Copernicus, Newton, Lavoisier and Einstein.  His references are relevant and his thoughts are clearly put forth.  The historical anecdotes are very entertaining and educational and do a solid job of reinforcing his point.<br />I must admit I was a bit concerned during the first chapter, it was a bit tough to make it through, but did a very good job of laying the groundwork and allowing a glimpse of the author's thought process.  The second chapter, in which the author begins to define &quot;normal science&quot;, immediately put me to rest as the author dove straight into making his point and proving his argument.  The final three chapters pertaining to the Invisibility, Resolution and Progress of revolutions should be required reading for anyone who works in the sciences, and is immensely valuable to anyone working in any field.  I have been surprised that there haven't been more straight on business interpretations of Kuhn's work (although there has obviously been much unreferenced piracy), as the spread of scientific thought is a very apt metaphor for the spread of business theory and product adoption.<br />This is a very good book and I highly recommend it, regardless of what field you work in, be it science, business or otherwise.work in, be it science, business or otherwise.	2001-02-18
US	51177659	R1NRY22EI558ZT	0684832879	528789584	The Great Game: The Emergence of Wall Street as a World Power:  1653-2000	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Wall Street: Good and Bad, Start to Finish	Very few books manage to write a 300 year history of anything and stay lively and thought provoking from start to finish.  Mr. Gordon's &quot;The Great Game&quot; does so in convincing fashion.<br />The book maintains a quick pace, touching on all of the major events, firms and people that have led to Wall Street's emergence as financier for the world.  Yet despite its quick pace the treatment of each of these characters and defining moments is surprisingly deep.  I was surprised by the accolades that Mr. Gordon gave to Alexander Hamilton, and how much he had to do with helping establish the US, and correspondingly Wall Street, as a financial powerhouse.  (So impressed I read one of his biographies by McDonald.)  The theme of the book is the increasing potency of this small street, how it goes from being the financial focus of New York City to New York State, to the Northeast, to the US and finally to the entire world.  Wall Street no long represents a few hundred feet of not even water front property, it has come to represent the very essence of finance, not just in the US, but throughout the world.  Mr. Gordon has done an excellent job of walking the reader through this fascinating story.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2001-02-18
US	51177659	R117XIP77QSJM9	096139210X	707128479	The Visual Display of Quantitative Information	Books	5	7	7	N	N	How to Create Clear Decisions from Clear Data	Mr. Tufte recently gave a full day seminar on the concepts he expounds in his three books (he is working on a fourth), which I was able to attend.  This, his first book, is really the foundation for understanding the principles he puts forth in the next two, and present a clear template on how to do the best possible job when presenting data visually. This book explains how to clearly and elegantly design data for presentation in order to maximize its efficiency.  While there are several fields where this is directly applicable, web design, finance and any other area requiring significant quantiative analysis, it is difficult to envision any field which would not benefit from Mr. Tufte's very insightful and educational opinions.<br />This book is divided into two parts, a history and guide to &quot;Graphical Practice&quot; and a section describing the &quot;Theory of Data Graphics.&quot;  In the first, the author describes what makes for good visual data and outlines the history of the visual presentation of data.  In the second part the author discusses many specific techniques for evaluating the efficiency of graphics and methods for ensuring that graphics are created in an intelligent and thoughtful manner.  The whole of the book is full of wonderful historical examples of good and bad graphics.  Every page has a graphic, and every graphic has been thoughtfully chosen and tells a wonderful story.  If you were to purchase this book and merely look at the charts and figures it would be a worthwhile purchase, if you take the time to read the back up text the book truly is a masterpiece.  The author does an exceptional job of clearly presenting his points at the conclusion of the chapters and provides a large number of well selected examples of his points.<br />Mr. Tufte's theories are clear, (1) charts are not just a way of livening up 'boring' data, (2) no chart can overcome poor content, (3) charts should contain as much relevant data as possible, and (4) charts should not be livenend up with 'chartjunk' just for the sake of displaying nifty graphics capabilities.  This is an excellent book, which is well thought out and clearly illustrates the author's point - but given the subject matter, that is exactly what you should expect.hould not be livenend up with 'chartjunk' just for the sake of displaying nifty graphics capabilities.  This is an excellent book, which is well thought out and clearly illustrates the author's point - but given the subject matter, that is exactly what you should expect.	2001-02-04
US	51177659	R2CMLZ8PS2GMLB	0385495323	440237161	The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	History and Theory of Code-making and Breaking	Mr. Singh has managed again to tell an enthralling tale not just of the history of codes, but of the evolution of code theory and how they have grown together over the past thousand years.  This is an extremely well-written text that focuses not just on the history of code making or the theory behind it, but tells both stories at once in a lively and engrossing manner.  This book is a true page turner, not just because it is so interesting, but also because it is so educational.<br />The book is laid out in four basic sections, codes before machines, codes with machines before computers, the breaking of &quot;language&quot; codes, and encryption with computers.  The first part talks about the earliest basic codes, used by the Romans and Renaissance courts which were conquered with basic frequency analysis and other slightly more elaborate methods.  The discussion of mechanized encryption focuses on the cracking of the German Enigma machine in WWII and the situations that led up to it.  As always, Mr. Singh tells the essentials of the story in a fast-paced manner while not losing sight of the fundamental analysis and theory behind the work that was done.  The third section regarding the cracking of language codes is introduced through WWII Navajo code-talkers, and Mr. Singh then walks us through the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphics and the Linear B scripts of ancient Greece.  The fourth section discussing encryption in the age of computers is absolutely fascinating.  The description of the solving of &quot;key distribution&quot; problems was amazing, and I am happy to now finally understand the importance of large prime numbers with regards to modern data encryption.  There is also a brief fifth section, in which the author discusses quantum encryption theory and discusses some of the significant advances that have occurred in this field.<br />There are some astounding themes which resonate throughout this book (1) the amazing co-development that occurred between private and public sector encryption agencies, and the tremendous silence of government agencies as their &quot;secrets&quot; became public knowledge, (2) the methods in which these encryption problems were attacked in an organized fashion, especially during war times, bringing together analytical minds of many different backgrounds, and finally (3) the way in which this teamwork was ultimately trumped through the breakthrough of a single individual who merely saw things differently and digested the problem in a few simple steps.  There are many solid lessons about problem solving in this book.<br />Mr. Singh's first book, &quot;Fermat's Enigma&quot; was outstanding.  It is amazing to see that he has replicated his success.  &quot;The Code Book&quot; is very much worth reading.en private and public sector encryption agencies, and the tremendous silence of government agencies as their &quot;secrets&quot; became public knowledge, (2) the methods in which these encryption problems were attacked in an organized fashion, especially during war times, bringing together analytical minds of many different backgrounds, and finally (3) the way in which this teamwork was ultimately trumped through the breakthrough of a single individual who merely saw things differently and digested the problem in a few simple steps.  There are many solid lessons about problem solving in this book.<br />Mr. Singh's first book, &quot;Fermat's Enigma&quot; was outstanding.  It is amazing to see that he has replicated his success.  &quot;The Code Book&quot; is very much worth reading.	2001-02-04
US	51177659	R2DIK3YYS9B7TV	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mathematical History and Theory, Plain and Elegant	&quot;Fermat's Enigma&quot; is a thought provoking, page-turning discussion of the history and theory behind one of mathematics oldest puzzles.  Mr. Singh does a brilliant job of outlining the many attempts over the years to solve Fermat's enigma and discuss the theories that were advanced along the way.  And I do mean &quot;discuss&quot; the theories as the author does do more than just give the complimentary and cursory overview of the math, but actually takes time to explain and educate the reader about some of the advances in number theory that occurred over the course of solving this puzzle.  There are multiple sections of the text that require several readings to digest, but this is due to the complexity of the subject matter, and not to the author's prose. Mr. Singh explains the principles clearly and concisely, using metaphors where appropriate and always putting things in  appropriate historical context.<br />I first read this book in 1998 and came back to it only recently after having completed Mr. Singh's second work, &quot;The Code Book.&quot; Both are masterpieces of educated scientific and mathematical history which do more than recount dates and names but actually outline the theory and substance behind these amazing accomplishments.  This is a great book and I could not recommend it any more highly.	2001-02-04
US	51177659	R2UNCTC4N1JYCK	0471345369	669711178	Lombard Street: A Description of the Money Market	Books	2	23	27	N	N	Very Thorough, yet Tough to Read	Wiley Investment Classics generally fall into two categories, tough and dreary reads full of information, and lively entertaining accounts which also educate.  Unfortunately, Mr. Bagehot and Mr. Bernstein's text is the former.  The book does an outstanding job of promoting the importance of a strong central banking system and the importance of strict credit control when combating financial crises.  However, it does so amidst extremely repetitive and somewhat painful language.  The authors provide outstanding quantitative and anecdotal evidence supporting their case, but they do so in such a way that makes the book a true labor to read.<br />This book would be very beneficial to anyone doing research on, or working for some kind of central banking organization.  Otherwise, I would suggest looking to any of the other Wiley Investment Classics for a more interesting and educational read about finance.	2001-01-31
US	51177659	RBR3267ONJPHE	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	Completely Engrossing, This is Best of the Best Sci-Fi	I started reading Snow Crash towards the tail end of a long flight, although I was sitting towards the front of the plane I was the last one off, as I simply couldn't put it down. This book has everything, great characters, ancient legends, sword fights, fantastic and realistic weapons, incredibly cutting edge technologies, romance, a super-internet where one can walk and talk, inter-family blood feuds, bullet bikes, skate-boarding couriers, the Mafia, hackers, first rate super villains, a floating city and nano-technology.  One could fill this review with cursory mention of all of the incredible things that the author has managed to work into this book.  The treatment of these topics is not light either, but there is real thought behind it.  The author did his homework, talking with many authoritites before introducing cutting edge topics, and it pays off. It really is one of the best pieces of science fiction I have ever read.<br />This book is not just a great piece of Sci-Fi, but it is good literature too.  The story is written around solid characters and a very interesting plot, it just so happens that it takes place in the future.  There are many interesting characters, although the book does focus around the actions of Hiro Protagnoist and Y.T.  Those other characters are all incredibly interesting , with their own motivation and purpose in the story.  They interact with each other in many ways, but always consistently, keeping the pace lively.  Mr. Stephenson's characters are deep- even when he writes in the first person as a super-bioengineered dog his characters are consistent and interesting.<br />The plot is top-notch, with the focus being Hiro, a hacker and swordfighter (yes, this is believably explained), and his sidekick, YT, a futuristic skate-boarding courier, are forced to unravel a mind-controlling virus that threatens the planet.  This requires him to move through the Metaverse (the super internet of previous mention), and California of the near future, including adventures on a floating raft, gun boats, romance, sword fights and more.  The action is non-stop, and it is done in a rich and colorful universe that is believable and engrossing.<br />I can't recommend this book enough.  It is fantastically entertaining and thoroughly thought provoking.r future, including adventures on a floating raft, gun boats, romance, sword fights and more.  The action is non-stop, and it is done in a rich and colorful universe that is believable and engrossing.<br />I can't recommend this book enough.  It is fantastically entertaining and thoroughly thought provoking.	2001-01-23
US	51177659	R1XE2GKV2AYZYF	0835607909	180026246	The Zen of Listening: Mindful Communication in the Age of Distraction	Books	4	76	78	N	Y	Very Clear, Worth Reading	I read this book because I wanted to be a better listener, I am not a practicer of Zen, nor do I meditate.  The book was very enjoyable, and it did a great job of teaching bigger picture items with regards to leading a life in which you focus on listening and also teaching simple mechanics of how to be a better listener.  Unlike many of the modern blended self-help / spirituality books that are available, the author does a very good job of making crisply clear points and avoiding repetition.<br />The chapters focus on several clear areas, such as listening to yourself as you speak, focusing on listening to others, listening in difficult situations, speaking in a way which encourages listening and methods to increase the out put of your listening through better memory.  I found the chapters that dealt with techniques on how to focus better on what others are saying to be very benneficial.  The chapter on how to speak in a way to encourage listening was very helpful.  There might be better individual books on all of those subjects, however, it is difficult to imagine an author doing a better job of blending the topics together and presenting them in such a well written manner.  Her style is very clear, to the point that the words are as insightful as the message that she is telling us, almost as if she is sitting nearby as you read, calmly explaining the book to you.	2001-01-19
US	51177659	RGBVBHFRLKK4Q	0684832674	794734184	Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins Of The Internet	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	Enthralling History of the Internet's Origin	This book gives you the complete story behind the conception and birth of the internet.  The story focuses on the work done by BBN to pioneer and develop all of the protocols and designs that are the internet.  The book does a good job of laying the foundation of where the state of computing was when these initial developments were being made and what outside social and economic trends effected and encouraged the internet's development.  The authors do a very good job of focusing on the personalities, anecdotes and larger issues without getting bogged down in minutiae.  At 265 pages, the book is packed and makes for a very quick read.  The writing style of Ms. Hafner and Mr. Lyon is outstanding, which greatly increases the quality of the book.<br />There are some very interesting aspects of the development that are related.  I was very interested in the origins of BBN, their background in acoustics, and the zeal with which they pursued the original DARPA contract.  Of equal interest was the method in which the teams were managed, and the way that the development was not pursued with large teams and brute force, but rather with smaller teams that were headed by the best possible people and given all of the resources that they needed.  The creation of the internet is an awe-inspiring event, and the text offers several subtle management lessons that are too important to be overlooked.  The book also does a splendid job of showing some of the theory that was used in the development of the necessary software and how the developers did such a good job of bridging theory and practical engineering development.  In this light the book does a much better job discussing theory than two other recent books on the history of the Computer, &quot;Engines of the Mind&quot; by Shurkin and &quot;Computer&quot; by Campbell-Kelly and Aspray. These are just some of the interesting stories told, the whole text is packed cover to cover with similar stories.<br />I highly recommend this book.k.	2001-01-03
US	51177659	R1GFFBGPYLSBTF	0262611341	368263853	The Age of Diminished Expectations, Third Edition: U.S. Economic Policy in the 1990s	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Economics for All of Us	I recently read this book and &quot;Getting it Right&quot; by Barro, both had been assigned reading while I was an undergraduate economics major that I had carefully avoided.  Having finished Mr. Krugman's work I very much regret having not read this book earlier (it was my favorite of the two).  He does a very good job of writing a well thought out, easy to understand description of the evils of several aspects of our fiscal policy in the US.  Two sections in particular, Section III on Policy Problems and Section IV on Financial follies, really spell out the illogical nature of many of our nation's legal and ethical dilemnas.  I particularly enjoyed the section on the S&amp;L scandal, which should be required additional reading to &quot;Funny Money&quot; by Mark Singer. It is, to say the least, a fascinating read.<br />If you are interested in understanding how US fiscal policy should function, or how we have fallen into a trap of lowered expectations with regard to the work of our elected representatives, then this is a book that you would very much enjoy.	2001-01-03
US	51177659	R31SHML72CQTJ2	0262522268	625274674	Getting It Right: Markets and Choices in a Free Society	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Solid Economics for Anybody	This is a lively example of the growing genre of solid economic texts written for the average reader.  It is written as a series of loosely connected essays that cover a broad range of areas, including such typical areas as economic growth, monetary and fiscal policy, and finally, towards the end of the text are a more free flowing breakdown of several 'lighter' subjects including school choice, second hand smoke, privatization, endangered species, term limits and baseball.  The purpose of this final chapter is provide the reader a demonstration of the application of economic reasoning, however in doing so the author makes some very solid points in a logical manner about topics that are frequent sources of discussion.<br />I much enjoyed the the scientific manner in which the author ranks presidents according to their performance on the 'Misery Index', backs up his discussion of economic growth by introducing the Iron Law of Convergance, and the effects of democracy on economic success.  This is a very interesting set of essays with just enough graphs and tables to prove the point without overwhelming the reader.	2001-01-03
US	51177659	R1I81E24DBYTRK	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	The Best Civil War Book Ever	I had never been a fan of the Civil War, and picked up Mr. Shaara's book only after it was repeatedly suggested as an excellent piece of literature.  This book has completely changed my view of the Civil War and my interest in historical fiction.  I couldn't put it down, and finished it in two days.<br />The book is a fast-paced account of the 4 days of battle at Gettysburg.  Mr. Shaara wrote the book based as accurately as he could from the accounts of those who were there, doing so in the first person primarily through 4 of the commanding generals.  It is Mr. Shaara's understanding of Confederate General Robert E. Lee that is the most impressive, he seems to do an excellent job in letting us glimpse how this now highly revered General looked at the war.  Another lead character is Union Col. Joshua Chamberlain, a fascinating introduction as Chamberlain had been a professor at Bowdoin University with no military experience.  His perspective on the war is vastly different from Lee's, allowing him to function as a well-written foil to Lee's perspective as a career military man. Chamberlain's unit was key to holding the Union flank and their ultimate success in this most devastating of battles.<br />This book was so good that I have gone on to read/listen to multiple other books on the Civil War, including all of the books by Jeff Shaara, the author's son.  This however, has been the clear best of the bunch.  I cannot recommend the book enough, it is absolutely riveting.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	R2ED74ZAO3216L	0553711989	221309303	Gone for Soldiers	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Solid Book, Decent Audio Book	This is a review of the Abridged Audio CD, read by George Hearn.  I very much enjoyed the book, and would give it a rating of 4 stars, however the abridgement and the narrator would rank 2 stars, giving this work an average of 3 stars.<br />I very much enjoyed the subject matter, Shaara writes &quot;Gone for Soldiers&quot; as a prequel to the Civil War based on the Mexican American War.  As usual, he does a great job of putting us behind the eyes of key players in the action.  Much more than his other books, Robert E. Lee is clearly the featured protagonist (he comes close to this status in the other books).  We watch as Lee gets his first real taste of battle, how he views the delicate political intricacies of General Winfield Scott's command and starts to understand how to translate his Westpoint and engineering background into tactics that are capable of winning the war.  I just read &quot;Personal Memoirs&quot; by former President, Union General and participant in the Mexican American War Ulysses S. Grant, and Grant clearly expresses that the foundation of the Civil War was laid by this very war.  Mr. Shaara's development of this thesis is very lively and as always he does a great job of telling the story from many vantage points.<br />While the subject matter was outstanding, the abridgement and narration were a bit disappointing.  I do not think that I could listen to Mr. Hearn read through an unabridged copy, nor would I want to listen to his reading of other books in the series.  His voice is mostly fine, but his standard tone and the highly repetitious text became somewhat comical by the end of my listening.  I think that this could well be the fault of the abridgement job (which could also explain Lee's prominence), as the story does not flow very well, and it seems that time and time again the author uses the same method of introduction and phrasing.  It was just a little too much.<br />I liked the context of this book, and the Audio CD was good, just not great.  I recommend it, but would not recommend the unabridged text, or trying to listen to more than one of these readings in sequence.great.  I recommend it, but would not recommend the unabridged text, or trying to listen to more than one of these readings in sequence.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	R3P1L5FPQANZRD	0393314715	397425836	Engines of the Mind: The Evolution of the Computer from Mainframes to Microprocessors	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Good Book, Focused on People, Light Treatment of Theory	I recently read this book and &quot;Computer : A History of the Information Machine&quot; (The Sloan Technology Series)  by Martin Campbell-Kelly and William Aspray(Contributor).  Between the two books you get a fairly thorough treatment of the events that led to the modern computer and the historical development of these machines.  &quot;Engines of the Mind&quot; is much more focused on the people that are behind the story, and less focused on the businesses and theory of computing that those individuals helped advance.<br />Mr. Shurkin starts his novel at the beginning, quite literally, walking through early usage of numbers and counting through the development of modern numbers.  Anyone familiar with early history will recognize the tale, although some interesting insights are provided.  He then walks us through a fairly detailed treatment of Charles Babbage, and even describes fairly well the theory behind the development of his Difference Engine.  We are then walked through the development of punch card machines to aid the US in post Civil War censuses, which leads to Hollerith's founding Tabulating Machine Co. which would become IBM.  Shurkin focuses on the individuals that developed these main frames, so we then spend some time on ENIAC and its many offspring.  Here the author starts to diverge into a somewhat personal discussion of who was the &quot;real&quot; founder of the mainframe, and thus the computer.  The author does a good job of saying he does not believe Von Neumann's claims to be this father, and that Atanasoff's claims appear fictitious as well.  Regardless of who 'wins' this argument, it would have been nice to know more of the author's own background in order to understand whether or how he was biased. The book wraps up with the development of Microsoft and Apple, but again focuses more on the backgrounds of their charasmatic leaders rather than the business forces that led those companies to their prominence.<br />The story is told logically and does a good job of letting the reader peek at the character of those people who were instrumental in the development of the computer.  However, it would have been nice to see more of the overall environment in which these decisions were made.  I believe that this book, combined with Campbell-Kelly and Aspray's book do a good job of telling the whole story regarding the development of the PC (neither focus much on theory), it would be wrong to read just one of them.  I recommend this book, however, I would read the other text first.y and does a good job of letting the reader peek at the character of those people who were instrumental in the development of the computer.  However, it would have been nice to see more of the overall environment in which these decisions were made.  I believe that this book, combined with Campbell-Kelly and Aspray's book do a good job of telling the whole story regarding the development of the PC (neither focus much on theory), it would be wrong to read just one of them.  I recommend this book, however, I would read the other text first.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	R3W1JS81O5K8AE	0393047954	56414244	Archimedes' Bathtub: The Art and Logic of Breakthrough Thinking	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	Interesting Thoughts and Puzzles, Could be a bit more Solid	I really enjoyed Mr. Perkins' theme and thoughts in this book.  He did a good job of breaking down how he looks at breakthrough thinking, and outlining a good methodology for overcoming seemingly unsolvable problems.  These theories are then demonstrated through several fairly quickly worked through puzzles that demonstrate how to make use of these problem solving techniques.  The books is written in a fairly standard format, with the introduction outlining the 'big picture' and subsequent chapters breaking out details of Mr. Perkins problem solving approach in more detail.<br />I did have some concerns about the book, the most notable being its repetitious nature.  It almost seems as if the author has written a guide to teaching one's self this methodology rather than a book designed to explore the subject in depth.  I believe that the author could wrap up his thesis and explain the methodology in probably 1/2 of the space that he has chosen, however, instead he has stretched out the context to fill some 260 pages.<br />There were two academic areas that I had hoped to see a bit more of.  The first was the author's brief review of the similarity in break through thinking with evolution, specifically with the theory of &quot;punctuated equilibrium&quot; which has long been put forth by the author's fellow Harvard Professor Mr. Stephen Jay Gould.  Mr. Perkins throws out the similarity as well as a couple of other thoughts on the matter, but never really crystalizes a thesis.  One would have hoped that the two professors proximity would have allowed a more mature discussion.  The second, which I had hoped would have been developed, was the oddly parallel development of most of the world's major inventions.  The printing press of Gutenberg and the heavier-than-aircraft of the Wright brothers were both developed amidst furious competition, as if the time of development for these inventions had finally been &quot;right&quot;.  It seems as if somewhere in this history there would be a logical point for Mr. Perkins to have developed.<br />Again, I liked this book, but would have hoped for some more tangible support of his theories, either through experimental results or more first-hand interpretation of historical events.  Where Mr. Perkins touches on the subject he does so with a very light brush stroke, and in doing so decreases the potency of what is otherwise an interesting piece of work.re would be a logical point for Mr. Perkins to have developed.<br />Again, I liked this book, but would have hoped for some more tangible support of his theories, either through experimental results or more first-hand interpretation of historical events.  Where Mr. Perkins touches on the subject he does so with a very light brush stroke, and in doing so decreases the potency of what is otherwise an interesting piece of work.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	RAPSVC5EDFFAE	0345434811	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	40	41	N	Y	Excellent Conclusion to A Magnificent Series	&quot;The Last Full Measure&quot; has a much more difficult task to undertake than did the original book in the series, &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; by Mr. Shaara's father, Michael Shaara.  This book covers the Civil War from the close of the battle at Gettysburg until shortly after the surrender of Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, some 3 years, whereas  &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; covered only a period of 4 days.  Nonetheless, the author does an outstanding job of taking us into the heads of the major players in the war, and as always, does a particularly outstanding job with Confederate General Robert E. Lee.  As in his other books, the author writes from the viewpoints of several of the critical individuals who were around at this point in the War.<br />I read this book after having read &quot;Personal Memoirs&quot; of Union General and former President Ulysses S. Grant, and was somewhat concerned that the sections written from Grant's point of view would be redundant.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that they were not, and in the end these were some of my favorite parts of the text.  It is amazing how informative this book is, and how much effort the author makes to accurately portray the characters and educate the reader about the many interesting aspects of the war.  I particularly enjoyed the descriptions of the Second Battle of the Wilderness, the description of the earthworks and the men who guarded them around Richmond and Petersburg, VA and the fast-paced action that led to Lee's ultimate surrender.<br />This is a very well-written conclusion to this series.  The author covers a lot of ground, but manages to not overwhelm the reader and keep them very engaged.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	R1AHGGELDK04GT	0465029906	606681797	Computer: A History Of The Information Machine (The Sloan Technology Series)	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	The Companies and Economics behind the PC	I recently finished this book and &quot;Engines of the Mind : The Evolution of the Computer from Mainframes to Microprocessors&quot; by Joel N. Shurkin.  Both are attempts at writing a detailed history of the development of the computer and the events surrounding it, and I must admit that I found &quot;Computer&quot; much more entertaining than Shurkin's text.<br />The difference between the two books is very slight, however, it is significant.  &quot;Computer&quot; walks us through the work of Charles Babbage and carries us through the backrooms of large businesses at the turn of the 19th century.  The authors discuss the work and lives of the people that were the first 'computers' working all day long to finish calculations that were used in business, and then for the calculation of artillery tables in the world wars.  It was the replacement of these workers and their omissive errors and necessarily slow speed and development time that drove the development of the huge mainframes that would be developed by the military.  The authors do a great job of walking through the history of the early computer companies, especially Hollerith's Tabulating Machine Co., now IBM, and National Cash Register.  The role that these two companies played in increasing the public's reliance and trust in machines was a key enabler of the computer revolution.  The authors then take us through to modern times and we follow the ultra-competitive computer industry through wave after wave of consolidation and rapid technological innovation.  This book also shows us a slight glimpse of the business forces behind the development of the transistor, and how this invention would wind up changing the world.<br />I could not have enjoyed this book more.  Of the two, it definitely did the best job of focusing on the industry and economic changes that have led us to the modern computer age.  The annecdotes and writing style of the authors is well-suited to the material and I very highly recommend this book.  I also recommend the other book as well - I believe that if read together (with some time to digest in between them) they do a great job of painting the picture of a fascinating development of one of the most important technological changes in the history of man.is book.  I also recommend the other book as well - I believe that if read together (with some time to digest in between them) they do a great job of painting the picture of a fascinating development of one of the most important technological changes in the history of man.	2001-01-02
US	51177659	R2KNE0FAV83B3L	0789721325	16141560	How the Internet Works: Millennium Edition	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Simple but Thorough - A Great Introduction	I purchased this book a year or two ago and have come back to it many times as a reference.  This is a visually-based book, which uses many illustrations to explain the functioning of the internet to the reader.  Yes, there are a lot of areas where it glosses over things and it is very repetitive, but there are many parts where the large, clearly illustrated examples are without question the best explanation of some very complex systems.  The book does spend a lot of time on simpler, less awe-inspiring technology like email and explaining how HTML works, but this is well balanced out by the visually-based explanations of how routers and other more dynamic aspects of the internet work together.<br />The book also clearly spells out the differences between various access systems (DSL vs. Cable modems, vs. dial-in modems, vs. Satellite access) and also spends enough time outlining wireless internet access and other systems to allow the reader to see how the same 'system' used for the internet applies to these newer, more cutting edge applications.  I think the book does a great job of showing and explaining all of the complexities behind the internet, without bogging the reader down with too much jargon and detail.	2000-12-20
US	51177659	RWM9PEBP70VT0	0139561455	230105335	Understanding Fiber Optics	Books	3	15	16	N	Y	Good, not great, book for the non-Engineer	As someone who works in the financial field that had to get up to speed on fiber optics, I purchased this book, &quot;Introduction to Fiber Optics&quot; by Crisp, and &quot;Fiber Optic Reference Guide&quot; by Goff.  This was definitely the most technically oriented of the three, but it did have good detail for the areas where the other two books weren't thorough enough.  This text is definitely more for targeted research as a reference book, and not what you should get if you want to sit down and read up on the subject.<br />There were a lot of areas where the added depth provided by this book were helpful, but it certainly has the feel of a book more oriented towards academia and professional engineers.	2000-12-20
US	51177659	R1BCEN81UMZOL0	0750624671	587160908	Introduction to Fiber Optics: A straightforward guide	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Good, not Great, Guide to Fiber Optics	I recently purchased this book, &quot;Fiber Optic Reference Guide&quot; by Goff and &quot;Understanding Fiber Optics&quot; by Hecht.  I knew nothing about fiber optics and had to get up to speed in a very tight time frame.  This was my second favorite of the three, as it did a very good job of providing a basic explanation of the technology behind and implementation of fiber optics.  This book was not bad in any way, there were merely some areas where Goff's book (which was the most useful of the three) were more up to date and the illustrations were more clear.  Also, it did seem as if a few items within the book were a little dated.	2000-12-20
US	51177659	R1MJFAEWXZYM1B	0240803604	268784303	Fiber Optic Reference Guide	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Best Overall Review of Fiber Optics	I purchased this book, &quot;Introduction to Fiber Optics&quot; by Crisp and &quot;Understanding Fiber Optics&quot; by Hecht to get up to speed on the technology.  I work in finance, and am not an engineer.  I found this book to be the most clear of the three, and by far the easiest to understand.  This book had better diagrams and used better analogies to explain the technology than did the other two books.<br />The book was laid out logically, and did a good job of building on knowledge explained in previous chapters.  There were one page summaries at the tale of each chapter, which were helpful in allowing you to either skip or skim the text. The glossary at the end of the book was especially useful, as was the end chapter on future trends within the industry.  The book was a quick read, and once I had finished it I felt comfortable engaging in a discussion with people much more accomplished in the field than myself.	2000-12-20
US	51177659	R30T0SE2RMXPHA	0139561455	230105335	Understanding Fiber Optics	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Good, not great, book for the non-Engineer	As someone who works in the financial field that had to get up to speed on fiber optics, I purchased this book, &quot;Introduction to Fiber Optics&quot; by Crisp, and &quot;Fiber Optic Reference Guide&quot; by Goff.  This was definitely the most technically oriented of the three, but it did have good detail for the areas where the other two books weren't thorough enough.  This text is definitely more for targeted research as a reference book, and not what you should get if you want to sit down and read up on the subject.<br />There were a lot of areas where the added depth provided by this book were helpful, but it certainly has the feel of a book more oriented towards academia and professional engineers.	2000-12-20
US	51177659	R19LR4HXRVQTFZ	0471238988	375708811	Where the Money Grows and Anatomy of the Bubble	Books	3	18	19	N	Y	A Good Quick Read	Overall, I believe that most Wiley Investment Classics fall into two different categories, books that are indispensable and fascinating reads, and books that are to be purchased, suffered through as long as possible, and then placed on the shelf for display.  &quot;Where the Money Grows&quot; belongs in a third cateogry with &quot;Where are the Customer's Yachts&quot; by Schwed - this is a fantastic quick read with some very pointed insight on Wall Street.<br />This book is best if you actually work in investment banking, and are not an investor looking for financial wisdom.  There are some great chapters on the types of people that you run into in the investment banking world, most of which are recognizable to anyone.  The chapter on &quot;Wall Street Habits&quot; is a great commentary on the self-prescribed routines of most people in finance.  These words still ring true some 70 years after they were first written.  Other chapters on &quot;The Hoodoo&quot; about the bad luck deal guy that everybody in banking knows at least one of, are very pointed.  Everybody knows the guy that just can't close anything, regardless of how they are involved.  I also enjoyed Chapter 8, &quot;The Invisibles,&quot; good for anybody who ever wondered who &quot;they&quot; are, as well as Chapter 11, &quot;Taking Trouble Home&quot; which brilliantly illustrates how people often removed from the market are able to see it with greater clarity.<br />This is a good little book - I recommend reading it.	2000-12-18
US	51177659	R251UZ1MOCMALU	0679450807	103930131	Goldman Sachs: The Culture of Success	Books	1	61	69	N	Y	Good Theme, Poor Content	This book does a good job of telling the overall theme of GS, partnership and emphasis on long-term relationships are good things.  The history of the firm is all laid out in front of you, recounting the significant changes in the firm over the years and how it has emerged as the preeminent investment bank.  Ms. Jardine tells the story as it leads up to Goldman's IPO.<br />However, I do believe that there are some significant things missing.  While the grander history is present (GS is good), the details and annecdotes that would provide that backup are missing (I know it is good, explain to me why).  Figures are often quoted without relative measures (revenue in certain areas was X in 1960, and then Y in 1994), which is somewhat worthless if they aren't compared as %'s of the Company's revenue, or some kind of relative measure.  Otherwise, this is all apples to oranges, it doesn't make sense.  Ms. Jardine doesn't hesitate to make very definitive statements, such as &quot;Goldman only recruits the best.&quot;  However, she rarely, if ever backs up such statements in any way shape or form.  I don't doubt GS recruits the best, but back it up!  While her book does cover a lot of ground, other authors have managed to cover greater periods of history and still maintain a hint of interesting story-telling, such as &quot;The Great Game : The Emergence of Wall Street As a World Power, 1653-2000&quot; by Gordon.<br />All in all, I feel that the book is little more than glorified recruiting material.  In a world full of solid financial writing, there are better books to spend your time reading.	2000-12-18
US	51177659	RI3KVMQY8WGNO	037550317X	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Good Book, Lacks Financial Detail	Lowenstein follows in a proud history of Wall Street Journal reporters that have written outstanding books about current events, such as &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; by Stewart and &quot;Barbarians at the Gate&quot; by Burrough and Heylar.  Lowenstein walks us through the development of Long Term Capital management at the hands of &quot;Liar's Poker&quot; star John Merriweather.  Merriweather and his band of academic, bond-trading proteges raised the mother of all funds in LTCM, dedicated to making massive bets, the majority of which were related to convergence amongst various interest rate spreads.<br />Merriweather and his gang go on to do quite well (all the while we hear the Jaws-like music playing in the background), in fact they do a little too well.  At one point they forcibly return money to investors - it is, of course, after this that things start to go tragically wrong.  There are wonderful descriptions and backgrounds of the key characters involved along the way, which adds to the reader's desire to know just how things wind up. The fund continues to lose all of its holdings, and as things start to go bad, they continue to get worse and worse.  Now it is no longer just the markets conspiring against LTCM, but also the growing number of bankers who learn of LTCM's positions, and knowing that due to their size LTCM's exit of those positions would ruin markets.  Everything that could go wrong does, and eventually we are left with the aftermath, the fund being bailed out through the behind the scenes maneuvering of the New York Fed.<br />The book does lack a couple of items, (i) there is little to no in depth discussion of the trading techniques used by LTCM, (ii) there isn't really any 'insiders' view of the behind the scenes maneuvering going on at the fund through the fall, and finally (iii) there isn't a real sense of finality at the end of the book.<br />All in all this is a well written book about an interesting point in the financial history of the US, as there are few other major incidents that don't involve some kind of criminal misdeeds.  Rather, what we see here is the sheer error of man's hubris and seeming belief that a resounding knowledge of the past would allow LTCM to be victorious no matter what the future lay before it.  I believe that this book will grow more interesting with every revision and addition to the epilogue.  I recommend the text, but I do look forward to reading &quot;Inventing Money&quot; by Dunbar, which supposedly is a bit more detailed when reviewing the actual trading techniques that LTCM was was built on.as there are few other major incidents that don't involve some kind of criminal misdeeds.  Rather, what we see here is the sheer error of man's hubris and seeming belief that a resounding knowledge of the past would allow LTCM to be victorious no matter what the future lay before it.  I believe that this book will grow more interesting with every revision and addition to the epilogue.  I recommend the text, but I do look forward to reading &quot;Inventing Money&quot; by Dunbar, which supposedly is a bit more detailed when reviewing the actual trading techniques that LTCM was was built on.	2000-12-18
US	51177659	R3V8S01RTZDOF6	0471357545	361732851	The Go-Go Years: The Drama and Crashing Finale of Wall Street's Bullish 60s	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Outstanding Review of the 1960's Boom and Bust	Wiley Investment Classics typically fall into two categories, fascinating troves of banking wisdom that are well-written and insightful, and painful diatribes that while full of good intention are best put on the shelf for display.  &quot;The Go-Go Years&quot; is definitely the former - this is an incredibly well written book about what has really become one of the forgotten times in American financial history.  While the booom of the 1920's and resulting crash, as well as the excess of the 1980's are frequent subjects of many financial authors, Brooks has picked a relatively infrequently discussed portion of our financial history, the booming 1960's and the resulting crash of the early 1970's.<br />There are many outstanding sections of the book; the introduction to Ross Perot in the first chapter, the history of Gerald Tsai and Fidelity, the rise and fall of the conglomerates, the description of the back-office and its staff, and finally the description of Wall Street that begins Chapter 5, which is without question the best description of the area ever written.  These few pages (104 - 111) are simply an outstanding piece of prose.<br />There are just too many good things about this book to fit into a 1,000 word review.  Too many of the lessons from only 40 years ago are maddeningly similar to the lessons many dot-com and IPO investors are learning now, and the structure and actions of many Wall Street establishments are all too easily explained with this simple peace of previously &quot;missing&quot; history.  If you are up to date on the current view of the 1929 collapse, and the bull market of the 1980's, then this is the book that goes a long way towards filling out the major events that shaped the markets in the interim.<br />Go read this book.<br />Favorite Excerpts:<br />&quot;Goaded by stock underwriters eager for commissions or a piece of the action owners of family businesses from coast to coast - laundry chains, soap-dish manfacturers, anything - would sell stock in their enterprises on the strength of little but bad news and big promises.&quot; - Brooks (page 28)<br />&quot;Some accused him of being a habitual liar; they forgave him because he seemed geniunely to believe his lies, especially those about himself and his past.&quot; - Brooks (page 63)<br />&quot;In the nineteen twenties, Wall Street's last great era before the present one, it was a kind of super university as well as a marketplace.&quot; - Brooks (page 105)<br />&quot;'We were all sheep,' one of them would admit, sheepishly, years later.&quot; - Brooks (page 120)<br />&quot;A smooth operator with a streak of the gambler; a company more interested in attracting investors than in making real profits; the resort to tricky accounting; the eager complicity of long-established, supposedly conservative investing institutions; the desperation plunge in a gambling casino at the last minute; the need for massive central-banking action to localize the disaster; and finally, reform measures instituted too late - we will see all of these elements reproduced with uncanny faithfulness in United States financial scandals and mishaps later in the nineteen sixties.&quot; (page 125 - 126)<br />&quot;Economics have never been my strongpoint&quot; - Salinger (page 273)sell stock in their enterprises on the strength of little but bad news and big promises.&quot; - Brooks (page 28)<br />&quot;Some accused him of being a habitual liar; they forgave him because he seemed geniunely to believe his lies, especially those about himself and his past.&quot; - Brooks (page 63)<br />&quot;In the nineteen twenties, Wall Street's last great era before the present one, it was a kind of super university as well as a marketplace.&quot; - Brooks (page 105)<br />&quot;'We were all sheep,' one of them would admit, sheepishly, years later.&quot; - Brooks (page 120)<br />&quot;A smooth operator with a streak of the gambler; a company more interested in attracting investors than in making real profits; the resort to tricky accounting; the eager complicity of long-established, supposedly conservative investing institutions; the desperation plunge in a gambling casino at the last minute; the need for massive central-banking action to localize the disaster; and finally, reform measures instituted too late - we will see all of these elements reproduced with uncanny faithfulness in United States financial scandals and mishaps later in the nineteen sixties.&quot; (page 125 - 126)<br />&quot;Economics have never been my strongpoint&quot; - Salinger (page 273)	2000-12-18
US	51177659	R3K8QNAR5URSP0	0060920386	68579470	Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Unbeatable Reporting of the RJR Leveraged Buy Out	If you want to understand Wall Street of the 1980's read this book, &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; by Stewart and &quot;Predator's Ball&quot; by Bruck.  This book is an all encompassing depiction of the events that led to the first leveraged-buy out (meaning they used debt, in the form of massive loans, and not just equity or stock), the debut of KKR as a major financial power, and the emergence of &quot;shareholder value&quot; as a buzzword that no CEO will fail to keep in mind.<br />The authors were both Wall Street Journal reporters who wrote the book in much the same way as they would report- direct to the point, clearly explained, and with little detectable bias as to the fate of the major characters.  I very much enjoy this style of writing, if every WSJ reporter were to write a book, I would be there to support them.<br />The book does a great job of explaining in detail the egregious excess of Nabisco during CEO Johnson's stint at the helm.  In this day of clipped expense accounts and flying coach for business, the presence of a &quot;Nabisco Air-Force&quot; of jets and professional athletes and celebrities on the pay-roll is difficult to imagine.  The authors do a good job of transitioning from these descriptions into the dirty details of how the deal was put together.  The scenes where the transaction is coming together at the final hour, through all of the negotiations and threats, are well-told, I could actually feel the tension and angst in the room.<br />Read this book.  When you're done with it go pick up &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; and &quot;Predator's Ball.&quot;	2000-12-06
US	51177659	RWMKJOD370FCT	0140120904	54081815	The Predators' Ball: The Inside Story of Drexel Burnham and the Rise of the JunkBond Raiders	Books	4	80	89	N	N	A Classic Look at the Inside of Milken's World	This book, &quot;Barbarians at the Gate&quot; by Burrough and Helvar, and &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; by Stewart fully depict the defining events of Wall Street in the 1980's.  Of this triumvirate, Ms. Connie Bruck's book is the only one that is more read than reported (both &quot;Barbarians&quot; and &quot;Thieves&quot; were written by WSJ reporters), and it really delves into the personal lives and backgrounds of the major players at Drexel.  In reading this text you are provided with a full description and understanding of Milken and the driving forces behind the firm, above all, you understand the trap he worked himself into through his own success and how he wound up victimized by the financial system that he worked within.<br />My version of the text is labeled on the front cover as, &quot;The Book Wall Street Couldn't Stop,&quot; in reference to attempts to prevent its publishing.  I believe that those persons that wanted to do so are now content with their failure, as the book does a good job of explaining the brilliance of Milken, the market that he created and nurtured, and the catch-22 that led to his criminilization.  As someone who works in banking, it is awe-inspiring to read the descriptions of Milken's deal-making capabilities and strategies, and at the same point disappointing to see how he slipped from operating in shades of grey to areas of wanting morals.  The author does a very good job of illustrating the power Milken had within Drexel, how his office on the West Coast went from being a backwater to accounting for the bulk of the firms revenue, and how Milken's subsequent removal left Drexel crippled past the point of healing.  The inter-office dynamics that Ms. Bruck writes on are present everywhere, but it is difficult to imagine anywhere that they are seen in such extremes.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2000-12-06
US	51177659	R3I37W75YD2L0H	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	5	173	180	N	Y	One of the Best Books Available on the Civil War	I have never been much of a Civil War fan, but after reading &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; by Shaara, a historical fiction about Gettysburg, I was interested in following up with some non-fiction about the most important event in US History.  This book kept me turning the pages from end to end.  Despite its bulk (some 618 pages) I simply couldn't put the book down, as Grant's matter-of-fact description of the events that surrounded him was completely engrossing.<br />Grant was not an extraordinary man or brilliant tactician, his soldiers did not have the same obsession with him that the South held for Lee, he simply saw the war for what it was, a campaign against a rebellion.  He looked at the entire war in its entirety, from battlefront to battlefront, and he repeatedly used that to his advantage.  Many times he makes reference to deploying troops to no clear end other than to occupy an enemies flank, this often as a junior with no authority over the battle as a whole.  Grant was a man of action, who realized he had to take a step in order to walk a mile.  He took the battle to the enemy, divised clear and necessary steps which were needed to win the war as a whole.  He was a general who did not just see the war as independent sets of battles, but saw those battles as a means to ending the Civil War.<br />One of my favorite parts of the text was watching the scope of Grant's vision widen.  Starting with his actions in the Mexican American War his vision is very limited: he sees only the immediate battle, and his descriptions focus on minutiae reflecting his low rank.  His vision escalates with his rank, until the end of the book, with the surrender of Lee, he sees and describes the entire army, and battles that would have once taken chapters to described are now dismissed in single sentences.<br />My one disappointment with the book was that it ended with the surrender of Lee at Appomatox.  I would have liked to learn more about his actions after the war, and especially learned more about his presidency.  I wish that there were similar autobiographies by other presidents, and certainly feel that this one elevated my expectations of all other autobiographies!<br />Favote Excerpts:<br />&quot;It is men who wait to be selected, and not those who seek, from whom we may always expect the most efficient service.&quot; - Grant (page 368)<br />&quot;All he wanted or had ever wanted was some one who would take the responsibility and act, and call on him for all the assistance needed, pledging himself to use all the power of the government in rendering such assistance.&quot; - Grant on Lincoln (page 370)<br />&quot;Wars product many stories of fiction, some of which are told until they are believed to be true.&quot; - Grant (page 577)<br />&quot;To maintain peace in the future it is necessary to be prepared for war.&quot; - Grant (page 614)<br />&quot;The war begot a spirit of independence and enterprise.  The feeling now is, that a youth must cut loose from his old surroundings to enable him to get up in the world.&quot; - Grant (page 616)ially learned more about his presidency.  I wish that there were similar autobiographies by other presidents, and certainly feel that this one elevated my expectations of all other autobiographies!<br />Favote Excerpts:<br />&quot;It is men who wait to be selected, and not those who seek, from whom we may always expect the most efficient service.&quot; - Grant (page 368)<br />&quot;All he wanted or had ever wanted was some one who would take the responsibility and act, and call on him for all the assistance needed, pledging himself to use all the power of the government in rendering such assistance.&quot; - Grant on Lincoln (page 370)<br />&quot;Wars product many stories of fiction, some of which are told until they are believed to be true.&quot; - Grant (page 577)<br />&quot;To maintain peace in the future it is necessary to be prepared for war.&quot; - Grant (page 614)<br />&quot;The war begot a spirit of independence and enterprise.  The feeling now is, that a youth must cut loose from his old surroundings to enable him to get up in the world.&quot; - Grant (page 616)	2000-12-05
US	51177659	R2A4EUB1U684K4	0345371984	913643876	Last Chance to See	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Well Written Travel and Nature Book	I just picked up this book to read again after 3 1/2 years.  It still holds up as a very well written text, put together with the same tongue and cheek style which has made Mr. Adams such a well known contemporary author.  In this book he takes us through his journeys as he explores the status of several endangered and exotic species, and his pointed commentary illustrates how tenuous the situations of many of these species are.<br />Interestingly enough, Mr. Adams, in writing a non-fiction travel related piece, sounds very much like Mr. Bill Bryson, the author of &quot;A Walk in the Woods&quot; and &quot;In A Sunburnt Country.&quot;  If you are at all interested in exotic travel or biology, or simply enjoy a good story, then this is an exceptional book to read.	2000-12-05
US	51177659	RRZJI3TPLYAOS	0062732765	149070062	Flatland/Sphereland (Everyday Handbook)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Great Introduction to Other Dimensions	Flatland is an excellent pseudo-fiction written to enlighten the reader as to the interactions between the dimensions.  The escapades of the squares, lines, circles and triangles as they live their lives in only two dimensions and encounter both 'lower' and 'higher' dimensions is very illuminating as to how different dimensions work together, and how it is not possible for someone of a lower dimension to perceive the higher dimensions.<br />I especially enjoyed Sphereland (which is at the other end of the book, flipped over in a somewhat corny configuration) because of the added thought and depth it brought to the interactions between the sphere and the squares that were being observed in flatland.  It is the original introduction of the sphere that leads the enhabitants of the two-dimensional world to ponder the third dimension, and it is this further discussion of the three dimensional world that allows us to ponder what lies out in the fourth dimension.  The second book does a very good job of answering a lot of the questions raised in Flatland, as well as bringing up many other curious items (such as the 'flipping' of the dogs and what flipping would entail in a three dimensional world).  Sphereland does a good job of walking the reader through the initial set up of Flatland, so if one is reading them back to back there is a lot of initial material that can be skimmed or skipped.  I would recommend that you can go straight to sphereland and not miss a beat.<br />I did think that the emphasis placed on the 'backwardness' of the Victorian thinking two dimensional universe was a little much, but understand it was part of the times.  It would have been nicer had the author of Sphereland merely skipped over its presence, rather than trying to set things straight through some kind of cultural revolution.<br />All in all, this is a very good book that leads to some very serious thinking - I would recommend it to everyone, regardless of their interest in science and math.h.	2000-12-05
US	51177659	R1KVGKV2TTE1RF	0684835290	79136059	The Invention That Changed the World: How a Small Group of Radar Pioneers Won the Second World War and Launched a Technical Revolution	Books	4	38	38	N	Y	Really Two Books - The First Great, The Second Lacking	This book is really two books in one, the first being an outline of the development of radar immediately prior to and during World War II.  This part takes up the first 245 pages of the book, is extremely well organized and plays out the complete development and deployment of radar during World War II.  This early part takes you through the people and organizations that were behind radar's development, as well as a very top level view of the technology used to create the device.  The author walks you through a very good description of radar's development on a global scale, outlining how the US and UK led the development, why Germany was only slightly further behind, and why Japan was so lagging.  Mr. Buderi takes several major battles, including the Battle of Britain, the Battle of the Bulge and the Battle of Midway, and outlines the significance of radar in those battles and how it truly was the winning weapon of the war.  This part of the book clearly rates 5 stars, and makes the whole text worth purchasing.<br />The second part of the book, which takes up the final 233 pages, is less organized and much less linear in its thought development.  While this lack of organization does reflect the decentralization of radar development following WWII, it does not make this section any easier to read.  While the development or radar as an astronomical tool, its deployment and adoption at civilian airports and the use of its underlying technologies in the development of integrated circuit are all significant, their depiction as essential parts of the story is lacking.  The second part ranks 2 stars, and is good reference material, but should be read on a chapter by chapter basis, as that appears to be how they were written.<br />In summary, the first part is great - 5 stars, the second part was less a book, but more a stringing together of engineering stories and earned only 2 stars.  I gave it a weighted average of 4.<br />Favorite Excerpts:<br />&quot;I never read books - they interfere with thinking.&quot; - Paul Dirac to Robert Oppenheimer (page 48)<br />&quot;It didn't make me more enemies than I cared about, because the enemies that you have to worry about are smart enemies, and smart people didn't get mad at me unless they had a good reason to.&quot; - George Valley Jr. (page 183)<br />&quot;Some of my friends seemed to know every year model of every car, that seemed to me so temporary and uninteresting.  Nature is such a permanent aspect of our universe, and so obviously God-made.&quot;  -Charles Townes (page 336)<br />&quot;We had the authority and influence that came from being indispensable.&quot; - Jay Forrester (page 397)- they interfere with thinking.&quot; - Paul Dirac to Robert Oppenheimer (page 48)<br />&quot;It didn't make me more enemies than I cared about, because the enemies that you have to worry about are smart enemies, and smart people didn't get mad at me unless they had a good reason to.&quot; - George Valley Jr. (page 183)<br />&quot;Some of my friends seemed to know every year model of every car, that seemed to me so temporary and uninteresting.  Nature is such a permanent aspect of our universe, and so obviously God-made.&quot;  -Charles Townes (page 336)<br />&quot;We had the authority and influence that came from being indispensable.&quot; - Jay Forrester (page 397)	2000-12-04
US	51177659	R3OEI8910PVW29	039330048X	194237010	Alexander Hamilton: A Biography	Books	4	17	20	N	Y	Great Man, Great Book	I wanted to learn more about Hamilton as the founder of the US financial system, and to understand more of his background in relation to the other founding fathers.  This book did a great job of both, the author being a well published historian who has focused on the early American economy.<br />Mr. McDonald does a very good job of developing Hamilton's life, and the various philosophical influences that influenced him most significantly.  Starting with his early life on St. Croix, his early abandonment and subsequent David Copperfield-esque determination to achieve fame in life, we are able to watch as Hamilton starts first by pursuing glory in the Revolutionary War, his close service with Washington, and how he then went to work as an attorney, and following Washington's election returned to serve his country as the first Secretary of the Treasury.<br />Hamilton's ambitions for the fledgling financial system are solidly shaped by his own background and hard work.  It is quickly apparent how different his own background was from other founding fathers, most notably those of the South, and most poignantly Thomas Jefferson.  Hamilton held himself to very high standards, his own need to be honest about an extra-marital affair is a lesson to our current politicians, and he frequently ran afoul of others because of his strong will and confidence that he was morally in the right.  Hamilton was above repute with his financial dealings, preventing himself from benefitting from his own legislation and actions in an age when such was the norm.  His ability to clearly divine a situation and act decisively led him to be not only an excellent litigator and legislator, but also an indispensable agent for the Government, his importance being most noted during Washington's second term in office.<br />All in all the author does a very good job of putting Hamilton into both the proper historical context, and helping the reader understand how he was viewed in his own time.<br />Favorite Excerpts:<br />&quot;I would willingly risk my life tho' not my Character to exalt my Station... I wish there was a War.&quot; - Hamilton (page 5)<br />&quot;He never ceased to dream of grand and heroic accomplishments, but he tempered his dreams with regular habits, reliable behavior, systematic and persistent application, and constant attention to self-improvement.  He despised laziness, disorderliness, unpredictability, impropriety, procrastination, drunkennes, sloght - the ways of the islands and, as he would come to believe by 1779, the ways of most Americans as well.&quot;  - McDonald on Hamilton (page 10)<br />&quot;As a general marches at the head of his troops, so ought wise politicians... insomuch that they ought not to wait the event, to know what measures to take; but the measures which they have taken, ought to produce the event.&quot; - Demosthenes (page 35)<br />&quot;Nothing is more common than for men to pass from the abuse of a good thing to the disuse of it.&quot;  - Hamilton (page 42)<br />&quot;As Hamilton learned in doing his research for the report [to congress], few American farmers knew whether farming was more or less profitable than other enterprises, for almost none kept any records.  The lack of information did not, however, prevent them from having opinions.&quot;  McDonald (page 233)<br />Jefferson had, &quot;a womanish attachment to France and a womanish resentment of Great Britain.&quot;  - Hamilton on Jefferson (page 265)<br />&quot;Having contributed to place those of the Nation on a good footing, I go to take a little care of my own; which need my care not a little.&quot; - Hamilton on his resignation (page 303)<br />&quot;Real firmness is good for everything - Strut is good for nothing.&quot;  - Hamilton (page 334)ite Excerpts:<br />&quot;I would willingly risk my life tho' not my Character to exalt my Station... I wish there was a War.&quot; - Hamilton (page 5)<br />&quot;He never ceased to dream of grand and heroic accomplishments, but he tempered his dreams with regular habits, reliable behavior, systematic and persistent application, and constant attention to self-improvement.  He despised laziness, disorderliness, unpredictability, impropriety, procrastination, drunkennes, sloght - the ways of the islands and, as he would come to believe by 1779, the ways of most Americans as well.&quot;  - McDonald on Hamilton (page 10)<br />&quot;As a general marches at the head of his troops, so ought wise politicians... insomuch that they ought not to wait the event, to know what measures to take; but the measures which they have taken, ought to produce the event.&quot; - Demosthenes (page 35)<br />&quot;Nothing is more common than for men to pass from the abuse of a good thing to the disuse of it.&quot;  - Hamilton (page 42)<br />&quot;As Hamilton learned in doing his research for the report [to congress], few American farmers knew whether farming was more or less profitable than other enterprises, for almost none kept any records.  The lack of information did not, however, prevent them from having opinions.&quot;  McDonald (page 233)<br />Jefferson had, &quot;a womanish attachment to France and a womanish resentment of Great Britain.&quot;  - Hamilton on Jefferson (page 265)<br />&quot;Having contributed to place those of the Nation on a good footing, I go to take a little care of my own; which need my care not a little.&quot; - Hamilton on his resignation (page 303)<br />&quot;Real firmness is good for everything - Strut is good for nothing.&quot;  - Hamilton (page 334)	2000-12-04
US	51177659	R3UMAJLA0Z3SD2	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	24	28	N	Y	I read this book because I liked the movie	I was a big fan of the movie Fight Club and was very interested in seeing how the book stacked up against the movie.  Was this like most books which wind up being poorly translated, or was the movie a fair representation of Palahniuk's original novel?<br />It turns out that the movie is a very faithful reproduction of the book.  Many scenes are taken out of the book wholesale, and a number of the narrations done by Ed Norton are taken word for word out of the text.  This being said, the book was very much worth the read, and the character development is a little bit more in depth, as books tend to do.<br />There were several areas that were different between the movie and the book, as outlined below (no plot spoilers, so feel free to read away):<br />1. Marla's mother.<br />2. The main character's interactions with his boss.<br />3. The investigation into the destruction of the main character's condo.<br />4. The garden at the Paper Street house.<br />5. The action leading up to the climax. and most importantly<br />6. The ending.<br />That being said, if you were a fan of the movie and want to read a little bit more of Tyler Durden's ramblings on life, then the book will provide you with the opportunity to do so.	2000-11-10
US	51177659	R3DS5ALIWZX1YI	0471181889	323637288	The Art of Speculation	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Great Information - Difficult to Digest	Mr. Carret was a well-respected financier who spent a lot of time and thought putting to paper the ideas that helped him build a fortune for  himself and his clients.  The ideas that he writes on, value-investing,  market forecasting, evaluating a company's R&amp;D prospects are relevant  to this day, and are valuable given the age of the text.<br />However, this is  a somewhat difficult book to read, indeed arguably one of the most  difficult to read texts in the Wiley Investment Classic series.  With that  in mind, I would only suggest it's reading to the dedicated financier who  has already digested many of the other fine historical banking books that  are available.<br />Again, this is a good book, but it's wording is old and  often not very direct.  The graphs and charts need further touching up as  they are also somewhat difficult to decipher.	2000-08-16
US	51177659	R2WI5K9I4GV89G	0671039105	104741909	An Isaac Asimov Robot Mystery: Mirage (Isaac Asimov's Robot Mystery)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Science Fiction at its Best!	This is a great piece of Science Fiction!  It is a clearly written  mystery, with a real plot that doesn't just serve as the method of  introducing the author's views of the future.<br />This book holds very true  to earlier books written by Asimov, as well as the earlier &quot;4th  Law&quot; robot novels such as &quot;Caliban&quot; and &quot;Inferno.&quot;<br />It is a great read, with good characters and lively action.	2000-08-15
US	51177659	R1FNT8VSVL7QW7	0471133094	119875571	Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds & Confusión de Confusiones (Wiley Investment Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent Historical Perspective	This is a must read if you work in any kind of market-related profession.  The historical perspectives offered in both books are well-written and  provide ample documentation into the history of panics, manias and  crashes.<br />The book, despite its age, holds up well against many modern  books on the same topic and should definitely be considered a finance  classic!	2000-08-15
US	51177659	R35HBTWYT8VVH8	0471119784	569125327	Where Are the Customers' Yachts? or A Good Hard Look at Wall Street (A Marketplace Book)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Look at Wall Street Excess with Classic Humor	If Will Rogers and Mark Twain got together to write a book on the excesses of Wall Street, the outcome would have been this book.  Having stood the  test of time and now displayed as an investment classic, this book is a  must read for anyone who works in finance.<br />The author does a great job of  humorously outlining the excesses of Wall Street, the classic conflicts  between bankers and their clients, and the fickle nature of the market.  It  is a very quick read with many anecdotes that are relevant to this day.	2000-08-15
US	51177659	R27PMAG89BMAZI	0028629965	453319175	Frommer's Virgin Islands (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Best Available Book on the Virgin Islands	My wife and I just got back from our 3 1/2 week honeymoon in the Virgin Islands.  We island hopped, starting in St. Croix, then moved on to St.  Thomas, and wrapped things up in St. John where we spent a lot of time  exploring Virgin Gorda, Jost Van Dyke and the other British Virgin Islands.<br />We took several books on the islands, and this was HANDS-DOWN the best.  Look no further, this is the best book available on the Virgin Islands.	2000-08-15
US	51177659	R1VVLYGRTR4IXP	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	An Easy, Educated Read	The book is easy to read, and the stories make it a very lively  read.<br />This was a very well written book, highlighting the importance of  taking a broad view when looking to explain events.  The author does a good  job of taking everday events to demonstrate how the mathematics and science  of epidemics is an occurence that is not confined to diseases, but to many  social and economic phenomena.	2000-08-14
US	51177659	R2CWINK4GSTLU1	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Like it or not, it is accurate	Whether or not you enjoy this book will be highly dependent on your  perspective.<br />I believe Mr. Brooks wrote the book in order to chronicle  the lives, views, and desires of a generation that has grown into a mature  facet of our society.  If you look at this book from that vantage, it is an  accurate (if somewhat preachy and obsequious) description of the  &quot;Bobo.&quot;<br />Mr. Brooks does not manage to do much more than paint  the picture, but he has done so in a realistic manner.  Interpretation of  the picture (and judgement of the society he paints) is left to the reader.	2000-08-14
US	51177659	R1ERW6NGRFUBQD	0393041247	911534864	Crystal Fire: The Birth of the Information Age (Sloan Technology Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book - A Technology Must Read	This book is very well written, and does a good job of telling the history  of the invention of the transistor.  The book focuses on the technological  aspects of the invention, but also does a great job of telling the story of  the personalities, and (now multi-million dollar) businesses that were  involved with the invention.	2000-08-14
US	51177659	R1ZOD5YLAEYN0U	0738201901	425403002	Insisting On the Impossible : The Life of Edwin Land	Books	1	12	14	N	Y	Nice Story, Poorly Written	I rarely write a review before I have completed a text, but am 250 pages into this book and wanted to warn as many others as possible.  This book is clearly the weakest of the Sloan Technology Series to date for a number of  reasons.<br />The author frequently delves into ridiculous levels of detail  about trivial events, and then glazes over larger technical issues.  There  is no in depth explanation of the chemical and physical explanations which  enabled Land to develop Polaroid into a successful company. There is no  rhyme or reason to the flow of the text, and it appears largely to follow  the thought stream of the notes that the author used to put the text  together.  There is almost no quality treatment of the business aspects of  Polaroid, the author making passing references when it so suits him.<br />This  is a very thick book, which is quite laborious to read.  Unfortunately, the  thickness does not translate into quality, or even quantity, of useful  information located within.	2000-05-17
US	51177659	R1AF6PZK3N71KK	0471196940	493318055	Turbulent Skies: The History of Commercial Aviation	Books	5	8	15	N	Y	Great Book!	This is a great book, giving a detailed history of commercial aviation, but doing so in a lively manner cognizant of the interests of any reader.  It hits on all aspects of the development of commercial flight, paying  attention to those connections between actions in the aviation industry and  what was going on with the rest of the world at the time.	1999-11-06
US	51177659	R2PGGSI7RSFQ9G	0812931912	424197675	AOL.com	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Promising, but fails to deliver	I enjoyed the subject matter of the book greatly, but must admit I was disappointed by the way in which it was presented.  The author, while attempting to capture the energy of the web, frequently fails to express  the facts in a logical manner, often needlessly encrypting simple  statements.<br />This book was great from the factual information covered, but  it focused more on the upper level moves, a single chapter dedicated to the  enabling technology (which perhaps the author assumed each reader already  had) would have gone a long way.  Unfortunately I feel that this omission  was made because of the author's own ignorance, and not for the reasons  mentioned above.<br />The book also focused quite a bit on major players, and  attempted to embolden what was already a very lively story through  prostelitizing about their &quot;vision&quot; or &quot;quest.&quot;<br />Good  content.  Needs work on presentation.	1999-10-14
US	51177659	R1E9M6RQ8F3QMS	0385476841	837575213	Worldly Goods	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Excellent annecdotes, but could have used more structure	Ms. Jardine has written a very good book, her usage of historical annecdotes to portray the penetration of affluence during the Renaissance is well written and her stories are poignant.<br />What they are poignant  about, however is up to the reader to decipher, as I felt the book could  have used more direction in delivering the author's point about the  penetration of wealth.<br />The book would have benefitted in more  organization in the content level, perhaps being chronologically based.	1999-04-22
