US	51179259	R230VOP1TXTFD0	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	2	3	8	N	N	A woeful "tail"	Has anyone else mentioned the puppy who makes an appearance in the last chapters of The Nanny  Diaries?      I could concentrate on the sad life of the poor little rich boy, but it has been analyzed extensively before in these reviews.  The fact that the authors choose to draw their characters as archetypes and to emphasize the fact by leaving them with archetypal names like those in  the cast of an ancient morality play--this too has been pointed out.    The masochistic repetitious loop of events; the starkness of the selfish nature of the employers.  Exaggeration to make a point, but no happy ending.  Indeed, no ending at all.   The depths of self abnegation on the part of Nanny:  in real life, people are neither as bad nor as good as these characters are made out to be.    But the dog.  The X family somehow acquires a puppy,  presumably from  a reputable breeder.  Well, reputable breeders would have had qualms about sending one of their pups home with a visibly dysfunctional family such as this one.  And...have the writers ever owned a puppy?  This amazing puppy is practically housebroken from the moment they get her.  The authors may have deliberately writ large about everything else but a young pup with this much bladder control--unlikely!  Not a central point, perhaps, but a  vexing one.    Aside from its gaps, the book is well enough written, but it is not a novel.  It is a string of episodes.	2005-01-17
US	51179259	R7ZQV3W4WNPDK	1413717144	492536508	Chasing The Truth	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Chasing the Truth	So close! <br />  <br />This book comes so close.  All the author needed was a style book and a good copy editor.  There are commas and hyphens where they shouldn't  be,  but missing where they are needed. And there are spelling mistakes that spell-check didn't pick up  because they are homonymic (\\"peddle\\" vs. \\"pedal,\\" for example).  We have all been there.  It is very hard to correct your own work, and it is even harder to do on a computer screen than on a print-out, which is my theory to explain why, in this  computer era when we should see less \\"typos,\\"  we actually encounter more. <br />  <br />The plot is first-rate, with  satisfying twists.  Due to the author's former career in law enforcement, the sequence of events and detail are convincing.  This is despite a few nagging threads left dangling (how did the two main protaginists first come to know each other, and so well, for example, and how did one of them end up working in the United States?).  He does a little more telling than showing on occasion, and he describes his characters a bit like a police report:  \\"...because of his five-foot ten. one hundred ninety pound frame\\" and \\"[he] lifted his five-foot-ten-and-a half-inch frame\\" are two separate examples.  <br /> <br />And perhaps he should eschew a few adverbs.   <br /> <br />But the dialogue rings true.  I found myself caring about the characters and willing myself not to skip pages when the action became really exciting.  At times the hero seemed somewhat out of date (I can't explain that without giving away plot elements) but generally they were believable.     I kept visualizing the story as a screenplay because it was so vivid;  a drive in the summer through the British Columbia Interior is hot, hot, hot, while the tumultous thunderstorm the hero's pursuers go through is wet, wet, wet.   <br /> <br />I hope Barry Davies has another book in him.  I would like to follow his characters through a few more adventures.<br />	2004-08-07
US	51179259	R1B03IF5LU86JB	0679312315	965008715	In My Own Name	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A novel political life	Maureen McTeer,  wife of...no, mustn't say that.  This talented, fluently bilingual woman just happened to marry, at the age of 22, a man 13 years her senior who would become Canada's  15th prime minister.  But she accomplished a great deal on her own.  In the late 1970s--in what was supposedly  a time of great advancement for women--Joe Clark, already a Progressive Conservative Member of Parliament from Alberta when she met him, lost a considerable faction of committed party voters because his wife chose to keep her maiden name.  And a lot of those voters were women.  Fast forward to the '90s.  Hilary Rodham became Hillary Rodham Clinton, and often just Hillary Clinton.  Plus ça change, plus c'est la meme chose?<br />You know the expression:  I'm not superman?  Well, McTeer may have been a real superwoman.  Yes, she had a lot of support, but she went to law school, was admitted to the Ontario bar,  and got a master's degree in law, all the while helping her husband campaign successfully  for the highest elected office in Canada.   Later when his minority government crumbled after a few months due to factors that were not entirely their fault (although some were, such as poor \\"party whipping,\\" and a degree of naiveté dealing with members of other parties as well as their own) her life was even more stressful.  And when her husband lost his party leadership to Brian Mulroney,  it was  the most difficult time of all.<br />In this book, Joe Clark comes off as a man of intelligence wit, grace and humour, and above all, integrity.  It is difficult to understand, from this perspective, why Joe was often earlier dismissed as \\"Joe Who?\\"  <br />During these past years, if I thought about McTeer at all--perhaps because McTeer lived her own life to a great extent--  I would have just put her absence  from my consciousness to the fact that the Clarks faded from the scene.  This was not true; they continued to work and accomplish much individually and as a couple.  But they did not enjoy particularly ample or good press.  McTeer herself admits to using coarse language in a moment of understandable exasperation during a party convention, and I recall reading years ago, around the time she first announced she was pregnant with her daughter, that she demanded in an interview to know why the media were always \\"crapping on my husband.\\"  She definitely had a point, but this type of remark is not endearing.<br />Even though McTeer was disliked by some of the more right-wing members of the Progressive Conservative party, she had her share of admirers, and justifiably so.  She ran for Parliament unsuccessfully in 1988 and I think this was Canada's loss.  Her pro-choice stance for women was to haunt her, an example of the pitfalls for candidates and one that, because she was a woman, became an unfairly heavy burden.  McTeer tells a chilling anecdote about her beloved daughter being harassed during door-to-door campaigning.<br />There have been jests over time that the party title, Progressive Conservatives, is an oxymoron, but McTeer makes the description sound not only feasible but exciting.<br />The Progressive Conservatives (\\"Tory\\") party, were nearly wiped out in the post-Mulroney federal election 10 years ago, and they recently voted to merge with their nemesis, the Alliance (formerly \\"Reform\\"), a grassroots party that sprang up in the frustrated West.  Although Alliance  has  achieved substantial stature, it has remained unable to \\"crack\\" the East with its huge numbers of voters, many of them francophones.   Clearly the opposition hopes this new incarnation will  give the powerful Liberals under incoming Prime Minister Paul Martin a run for their money.  <br />But McTeer, who defines herself as a social progressive and a fiscal conservative (a laudable if somewhat contrary notion), must be utterly dismayed by the turn of events. This time the party has chosen to drop the old \\"Progressive\\" (which goes back to the union of the Progressives andthe Conservatives in 1942) and call itself, plain and simple, \\"Conservative\\" once again. <br />Joe Clark will not be pleased.  And I am sure--indeed hopeful--that we will hear more from McTeer about this.	2003-12-08
US	51179259	RXRCMUQTZXOA2	0385507879	172781303	Power Failure: The Inside Story of the Collapse of Enron	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A convoluted grid of a tale	Power Failure was interesting  and well enough written, considering the complexity of the issues leading up to and surrounding Enron's final debacle.  <br />It is not surprising that I myself found Mimi Swartz's account to be esoteric despite protagonist-and-credited-coauthor CPA Sherron Watkins's  nod to Swartz's ability to clarify events. This is because  when matters turn to topics of numbers my eyes tend to glaze over with what my son (also a CPA) ascribes to 'math anxiety.'  <br />However, it is apparent that not even the experts were astute enough to call Enron on what even I can clearly deduce from this book were years of fudging issues.  <br />Enrons structure was a tangled web of entities cobbled together in ad hoc fashion.   It seems very few people were given the whole story anyway.   As did  other readers, I too wondered why Watkins waited so long to blow the whistle, but in that environment where power was a sad substitute for common sense, perhaps I too might have waited, especially when it did not seem that any  attractive alternate was looming were I to quit.  And it is difficult to play the role of a Cassandra in an environment where people are making gobs of money. <br />According to this book, those in charge had a hubristic attitude that uncooperative people didn not  'get it,' and every problem could and should be handled by Enron?s public-relations department.<br /> These efforts  read, especially with hindsight,  like condescending semiotics, such as an upbeat survey of employee opinions taken while the business was collapsing. <br />It is depressing to wonder if this cycle, despite herculean barn-cleaning in the business community, will repeat itself, but the chances are it will.  After the slash-and-burn tactics following the early 1980s slump, one would think that business would have been humbled or at least more careful.<br />Apparently not.  In an era of instant gratification, old lessons are quickly forgotten.	2003-08-31
US	51179259	ROEGSBTWXAN02	0749322713	549223675	Bridge on the River Kwai	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Less was...less	Less is more--usually. So I admit with some shame that this is one of the rare occasions where  I actually enjoyed a film more than the book that was its inspiration.<br />Ironically, the film's screenplay, although credited to the book's author, Pierre Boulle, was written by two uncredited blacklisted writers, Michael Wilson and Carl Foreman.  This was not corrected until decades later, so when  the screenplay won an Oscar,  Boulle (who did not speak, let alone write, English) accepted the award.<br />The film took liberties with the plot.  It was released in 1957, which meant that not only could writers still be tarred by a McCarthy-era brush, but it was also a time  which demanded a big-name American star in a lead role as a box-office draw.  So a British commando character became an American played by William Holden.  The great actor Alex Guinness played  the role of the gung-ho British colonel with his usual distinction.  In the film the individuals, even the volatile and incompetent Japanese colonel, all come across as better than they might have been.<br />But the same people in Pierre Boulle's original account were not so quite so stylishly spirited.  Even while Boulle praises a character on the one hand, he cuts him down to size with the other.  Boulle's book reads \\"true,\\" yes, and touches on interesting moral dilemmas.  As a former prisoner of war in South-East Asia himself, Boulle has only the lowest of opinions for his brutal captors, no doubt justified, but there is no tempering of his characters.  And even while he recognizes admirable British qualities, he has equal quantities of disdain for aspects of  their ethos.  It is too bad he has no French characters in the book to see if he would be as merciless with his own countrymen.<br />Despite his clear bias, Boulle's writing has a grand sense of socratic irony to it.  At times, even through the filter of our contemporary mores,  we may still marvel at his brilliant and scathing depiction of human nature.<br />Unfortunately, the story's structure is plodding and ponderous.  Whether or not this is due to the English translation, it can be a somewhat convoluted \\"read.\\"  And while Boulle is clever, his characters lean to the archetypal and they  are somewhat two-dimensional.<br />Yet, sadly,  his story is probably  more like life really is than the rather sugarcoated but splendid  film that was made of it.	2003-07-12
US	51179259	R5GKKYO6RS5OM	0060514930	171600846	Dead Ringer	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A share of suspense	Dead Ringer <br />Author Lisa Scottoline sketches thumbnails  with the tersest of phrases.    In her latest book,  Dead Ringer, an overbearing class-action attorney, Bill (a.k.a. Bull) Linette, whom the writer  has already   deliciously  pigeon-holed  by dint of his \\"overbleached\\" teeth,  doesn't just turn around; he pivots  \\"on his slippery Italian heel.\\" Lawyer heroine   Benedetta Rosato's beauteous associate Anne Murphy despatches a lasciviously groping lunch date with a well-aimed \\"overpriced designer pump.\\"  Bennie  herself  stops a door slamming in her face by  thrusting her Saucony (a brand which advertises itself as \\"shoes for serious athletes\\") and  using it to  wedge the door open.  Running metaphors were never more fun.<br />This is the  book  I just finished reading aloud to my 92-year-old mother, a formerly inveterate reader who is now plagued by low vision.  It was very difficult for me, because I had to be self  disciplined.  As a rule, I read a good suspense novel in a day or two.  That way it is not difficult to keep all the threads together in my mind and I can just go plunging headlong  till the end.<br />My mother however, is no longer  capable of sitting through more than a chapter or two (occasionally three) at a time.  Also, she has short-term memory problems and each time I picked up the book (after breakfast was the best time) I had to go through \\"the story so far.\\"  It made me appreciate those clichés:   \\"I couldn't put it down,\\" and \\"It's a real page-turner.\\"  And of course \\"a real cliff hanger.\\"  The author suspends exciting plot developments at the end of each chapter.   This is true of all good stories,   but I haven't had to examine one as carefully as this  for quite a while.<br />Scottoline's humour is dry and crisp.  Her books are worth reading for the dialogue alone.  My maternal grandfather    was a criminal lawyer a long time ago, and he was known for his wit (although occasionally for his bombast).  As we listened to the crackling repartee between Bennie and  other characters,  my mother would frequently interject with some story  from  her father's repertoire of his more colourful clients.   She kept saying, \\"Human nature doesn't change,\\" even though I know the court ambience was far more formal 70 years ago.  And my mother appreciated--treasured--the fact that some of Rosato's prominent clients were French, as my father's parents emigrated to the New World from France with their own parents a hundred years ago.<br />There are elements of this plot that are far fetched.  Bennie is a curious combination of worldly-wise and naive.  I would point out that Bennie was perhaps too trusting of her self-appointed  Navy SEAL protector, especially when she was so proactive in  other ways, and my mother would counter, \\"Oh, isn't that true of all of us.\\"  And the reappearance of Bennie's evil twin stretched the imagination at times, almost like a red herring, but readers of this careful author know  there will be another book to deal with some of the unfinished (and tantalizing) story lines.<br /> Overall, Scottoline  fans will not be disappointed with this  newest story.	2003-06-23
US	51179259	R2ZBE8UJ9RZK11	0241899869	721236855	Final Payments	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Word artistry	I love discovering an author new to me who writes so well that you just know you've been there; you've seen those people; you've heard them talking. And through Mary Gordon's incisive prose, you perceive everything even more clearly than if you'd merely been there.<br />It's just too bad that so many of the characters are appalling. Although I admired the author's sense of irony, I wish she had been more generous with a sense of humour that occasionally percolated but never fully penetrated.<BR> <BR>Talk about dysfunctional. Isabel Moore is finally in a position to set herself free after eleven years of nursing a badly crippled father. First he was crippled emotionally and then he became physically incapacitated by a stroke soon after his daughter did something that disappointed him mightily. The guilt that arises in Isabel will outlast even her widowed father's surprisingly long life. Isabel is 30 when he dies, and considers herself ancient. Today a 30-year-old woman would probably not consider herself passée. Yet perhaps at the same time a young woman today would not devote herself so completely to the care of a disabled parent. Still, Isabel's actions and reactions seem anachronistic even for 25 years ago, when this novel was written.<BR> <BR> Isabel's thought processes are incredibly convoluted, but if you can get past her wobbly self perception (why does she attach herself to so many unlikeable people?) this book is worth reading. You may question much of the character motivation, but you will love the words and how the author has strung them together.	2002-10-30
US	51179259	R6YYSL2BQ8S2M	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderfully compelling	A Fine Balance is a fine book. I could not put it down. Rohinton Mistry manages to get inside all his characters' hearts and minds. He keeps many different threads together throughout the entire lengthy narrative, and while his writing is bittersweet, it is brilliant. I would highly recommend this novel to anyone, and in fact, it was a gift to me from my goddaughter.<br />I recommend it despite its relentless tragedy and the hubris that befalls virtually all the central protagonists. It seems extreme that even among the poorest strata of Indian society, people could so often be their own worst enemies. Dina's brother is awful, yes, but she never learns to handle him, forever defying him with the vigour of an angry teenager. Her myopia extends beyond her progressively worsening eyes to her relationships. <br />The same is true of the wonderful tailors, Ishvar and his nephew Om, who cannot seem to take one step forward without taking two back. And Maneck, Dina's boarder and friend to the tailors, lives his life with the morose despair of a Thomas Mann character. He, like Om, is bad tempered and impatient with the people who care for him the most. <br />These characters are not essentially unkind or amoral. But their rage does not always seem to be enough to account for their ill-conceived actions. True, life is hard, but they seem incapable of absorbing its lessons, and their judgment remains puerile. Only rarely does Mistry show his truly villainous characters suffering just retribution, and a hugely rewarding event that is. For the most part, however, it seems we are to infer that no good deed will go unpunished, and that cheaters usually do, after all, prosper. Whatever balance there may be in this book is meager and tenuous at best.<br />What a gloomy theme. But it doesn't matter. This story is so compelling, the words so rich and tactile, that the characters will haunt you long after you have reluctantly closed the book.	2002-07-05
US	51179259	RAOLYB37RQVTS	0446605786	671980382	The Royals	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Less dissertation than regurgitation	What is it about this book of Kitty Kelley's that does not ring true? It is not just that, having been released in 1997, it is dated. No one could have foretold the then-imminent death of Diana, and some of the book's predictions are admirably prescient, if not original. (One example: the outpouring of nostalgic affection that would arise upon the death of the Queen Mother.)<br />The book is at worst, readable, and at best, informative. But it is extravagantly overblown. A minimalist Kelley is not. One reason her book is short on credibility is because it lacks a consistent voice. Any biography must draw on a variety of sources, but the reader gets the feeling that not only is this not Kitty Kelley speaking, it is not even Kitty Kelley paraphrasing. There are long passages, not in quotation marks, that appear to be either lifted holus bolus from another (British) source or crudely edited, possibly by a British assistant. <br />Kelley is an American, but she could have pulled this off if she had maintained a genuinely American point of view: after all, Americans seem to be the target audience for her book. As well, while her book contains a vast scattershot of information, she does not connect the dots. Her bibliography is lengthy but her chapter notes are brief and vague. <br />Even if much of the book is true, it is hard to lend it serious credence due to some obvious anachronistic errors.<br />She berates the Queen Mother, at the time Queen Consort to King George VI, for the vast wardrobe for her visit to Canada and the United States in the summer of 1939. She implies that despite their claims of acceding to hardship and wartime deprivation, the monarchs travelled in extravagant style with no concern for the strict limits of spending coupons that were the lot of ordinary Britons. Yet the royal couple toured in the summer of 1939; however much they spent, the King and Queen's trip was completed in advance of World War II with its subsequent rationing. (War was declared by England on September 3rd, after Germany invaded Poland.) This type of error should be dealt with in Biography 101 and failing that, picked up by a moderately astute copy editor. <br />Later Kelley comments on how the Princess of Wales, estranged from her husband, made herself out to be all alone one Christmas when in fact she had a mother, a brother, and twin sisters to call upon. Diana's sisters, Sarah and Jane, are not twins and nowhere else in the book is this implied. Was it a simple typo of \\"two\\" that the spell-check picked up and suggested \\"twin\\"? Regardless, the error should have been corrected in proofreading.<br />These lapses are puzzling, even in the most informal of narratives. Moreover, the statement about the Princess's family resources belies Kelley's constant earlier allusions to the dysfunction already rampant in the Spencer clan.<br />The wicked vignettes peppered throughout the book make compelling reading, but they should be taken with several grains of salt.	2002-06-10
US	51179259	R31WM4U0KUK1JS	0061094129	746809256	Legal Tender (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A great picaresque tale	This is the fifth book  by Lisa Scottoline that I have read.  After being given The Vendetta Defense, I was hooked, and am now trying to read the rest of her books methodically and in order.  When you get to know a writer's style, sometimes it is disappointing to figure out the formula.  So far, I have not felt this way about Scottoline.  She always adds enough new twists to keep me interested.  <br />Of course, if a reader cannot suspend a certain amount of disbelief, he or she will not like this book.  There is an unmistakable degree of sly exaggeration. But like any good spoof, it tells the truth.  Anybody who personally  knows any lawyer even slightly will understand the author's \\"digs\\" at law firms' predilection  for client billing.  And Scottoline has a wicked ability to caricature the different lawyer types, much as she clearly maps out the social strata of the different floors of a law firm, starting with the Loser  Floor.   <br />One reason she maintains suspense is that all her characters are  well fleshed out, evincing both good and bad qualities, so that  unlike the case with usual villain archetypes, by the time the book reaches its denouement, the identity of who- actually-dun-it  surprises us.  And her wonderful character on the lam, Bennie Rosato,   leads a merry chase because the author clearly knows her venues-- and how the system  works--so well.  Although more sympathetic than the typical picaresque protagonist, Rosato has enough gall and chutzpah to be convincing.  The embattled heroine pulls off several little stings which give the reader a triumphant if vicarious satisfaction.<br />There are superb ironies here:  the only person who heeds her questionable alter ego's so-called pleas for non-billable help is the head of the firm.  And the elderly security guard at the tacky office of the sleazy (and hilariously inappropriately named) lawyer, Mr. Celeste, turns out to be actually more on the ball than the gaggle of smooth but naïve young gatekeepers at the posh building that houses   highly successful firms. <br />Scottoline's undergraduate degree was in English, and it shows.  Not only does she know the law, but she understands literature, and there are layers of wit and plot, as well as substance and subtext, to her writing that are enormously gratifying.  <br />In other words, she writes good.	2002-05-13
US	51179259	R3UL0E98HZFH7J	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Life writ large--VERY large	This novel  is a little longer than it has to be.  A few of its metaphors and dualities seem a little forced.  The heroine, if we may call her that, is an exaggeration of human foibles; hers is life writ large--literally, in this case, because Dolores Price eats when she is dejected and, at her lowest ebb, tops the scales  at 257 pounds.  Many of the story's characters seem simplistic, even archetypal.  The plot is so far fetched it is ludicrous.  There are too many coincidences.<br />And yet it all works and this is an excellent  book.  <br />I was feeling a little depressed when I began this tale, and I thought for a moment that I would put it down and find something else that was  a little more uplifting to read.  But I could not put it down.  I was rewarded with lots of laughs, and throughout all the book's excesses, I could recognize that this is what life is like:  maybe not quite like that, but if things could really be as ridiculous as they manage to be for Dolores, something in our hearts tells us that, yes, it would be exactly as the author describes them.   <br />In a nutshell, when there is less of Dolores, there is more of Dolores.  As she gets better, she sheds the pounds, but it is a long road to her healing.  She seems to shoot herself in the foot whenever things start improving.  That may be why the book had to be a little long.  Dolores cannot seem to stop double-crossing herself.<br />The ending was not as satisfying as I would have liked.  True, it is a vindication of Dolores's  journey to self discovery.  Yet, as the most literally believable part of the book, it was a small let-down for me.  It does show  us that Dolores is recovered, whole, and real.  <br />But after we have struggled along through all the book's torturous detours, it would have been nice to have everything turn out absolutely perfect in the final pages.  Dolores undone has become Dolores come together. We will settle for Dolores being happy.  But I would have preferred Dolores happily ever after.	2002-02-19
US	51179259	R3Q49C8WUIRP6M	0738865850	70311926	Kruger's Gold: A Novel of the Anglo-Boer War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Quite simply a wonderful book	Sidney Allinson's books are surprises.  They can start off unassumingly  and build up to rip snorting sagas of ceaseless adventure.  In his  finest work yet, Allinson doesn't even start off slowly.  Kruger's Gold grips the reader at once and the pace never slows.  As I read this action tale of the struggle a century ago between South Africa's Boers, and England and her \\"colonials,\\" I was repeatedly struck with the idea this would be and should be a wonderful movie.  Allinson's experience as a television producer may have given him that hot-shot cameraman's \\"eye\\"  or it could simply be that any good yarn so stirringly told lends itself to theatre in the best sense.<br />On these pages, a segment of history that was soon obscured by two ensuing, bloodier world wars leaps to life.  It is really the twilight of an era, with Europeans jostling for power and   position and, in this case  in particular,  South African gold.  Allinson fills in the historical perspective while following a Canadian soldier and his colonial troops who, late in the war, have been assigned to find the legendary government cache of gold that departing Prime Minister Paul Kruger was said to have stashed before leaving in 1900 for virtual exile in Europe. <br />Allinson writes sympathetically of the brilliant Boer commandos fighting to retain their homeland and their way of life.  His story is not overly revisionist:  the Boers have seized this land from the native tribes, after all, and even the most principled among them want to keep the blacks and \\"coloureds\\" in their place, lest their vast numbers overwhelm the white settlers.  Even through a more politically correct prism, we must admire the self reliance of these men whose surprise tactics and talented marksmanship enabled them to strike at the enemy, melt away into the bush, and return to attack another day.  Many if not most of the men have lost wives and children to the war; yet, while they can be ruthless, they treat surrendered prisonerswith a decency and respect that arouses a sense of nostalgia in the reader.  Their English counterparts do as well with their own prisoners, for the most part.  <br />The story of the concentration camps where stranded Boer families and prisoners were placed to wait out the war is not as happy a one.  Allinson paints a grim picture of these horrors where women and children and some men languished in filthy conditions with poor diets and disease and death dogging every step.  A few selfless medical workers do their best, but there are no facilities and their supplies are woefully inadequate.  The camps were not England's finest legacy to the history texts.<br />The romances in the book provide a lusty  and pleasing counterpoint. Even the horses get to play a heart-warming role.  And throughout the book, Allinson has peppered the story with fascinating historical minutiae, such as the Boer heroine not being allowed to play ragtime music, then the rage, because it was produced by black performers.<br />Read this book.  It is a treat.	2002-01-20
US	51179259	R1K1RY0HPQ75NA	038533527X	591661632	Still She Haunts Me: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Beautifully written and highly readable	I don't think I was a clever child.  I never appreciated Alice in Wonderland, and although parts were funny to me, I thought it was gruesome and silly.  Charles Dodgson, a.k.a. Lewis Carroll,  based his books on stories he crafted for a young girl child, and their sophistication reflects  the clever mind of that child.<br />There is lingering controversy about the true nature of  Dodgson's relationship with Alice Liddell, the little girl who was his muse for his timeless books on the literary figure of Alice.<br />Was the author a shy, stuttering mathematician who was a social misfit at best and a paedophile at worst?  Do we ascribe evil thoughts to his obsession with the young Alice (honi soit qui mal y pense) from our cynical perches in the 21st century?  Perhaps in a way that is our own ironic mirroring of the Victorian penchant for classifying everything; we have to label this man who was merely a talented amateur photographer in an age when the medium was new, and who simply enjoyed telling clever stories to clever little girls. Or was he?<br />Somewhere, in a reference I can no longer find, I read that Dodgson had photographed several little girls in the nude, and that their parents were aware of it in at least some of the cases, implying they considered this an art form.  From the same source I read that Dodgson, behaving honourably,  eventually gave all originals and copies back to the girls' families.<br />Author Roiphe chooses to portray Dodgson as a bumbling mathematics instructor who becomes  fixated upon the young daughter of the dean at Christ Church Oxford. The writer raises as many questions as she answers, and once or twice she seems to be too enhanced with her own figures of speech.<br />But the book is first and foremost a good read, and Roiphe knows her milieu.  This is the archetypal Victorian ambience, where any phrase with the slightest aura of suggestiveness is spoken in French (&quot;sans habillement&quot;  for nude, for instance) and even many phrases that are not.  Bowdlerism is in style (dare I say de rigeur ?).  Dodgson considers the expurgated version of Shakespeare written by the Bowdlers in 1818, which deleted or replaced words and phrases considered too vulgar for the delicate reader.  He decides that it is not delicate enough, and contemplates producing an even purer version for little girls.<br />Roiphe's Dodgson does not, as some writers claim the real man did, lust after grown, married women. The pursuit presumably proved that he was a real man of normal masculine appetite.  Even if this is true, it could be be argued that a man who chases only safely married women may be insecure and deficient regarding the opposite sex.<br />Were Alice Liddell's parents terribly innocent, or perhaps not careful enough of their daughters' (and Alice's in particular) relationship with this gifted, tongue-tied young man who seemed to hang around all the time?  In this book, Mrs. Liddell freezes Dodgson out completely when she discovers the nude photos of Alice that had been hidden in her daughter's bedroom.  In real life there must have been at least some genuine confrontation, as an 80-year-old Alice Liddell Hargreaves would recall that her mother tore up all the letters Dodgson had sent her when she was a child.<br />Roiphe just hints at a flirtation between Dodgson and opium, in the guise of the then-socially acceptable tincture of laudanum.  Some of the images in his books almost seem drug-induced.  But it could be just a result of Dodgson's very fertile imagination.  (&quot;Such an imagination you have, Mr. Dodgson!&quot; Mrs. Liddell says to him, and her tone is not necessarily complimentary.)<br />Ultimately Roiphe  has produced a master painting of a certain class in a certain time in England.  Brilliant writing and a fictional point of view take us into the mind and heart of Charles Dodgson.  Whatever else he was or was not, the man wrote wittily, ingeniously,  and produced an all-time classic.  Weclose Roiphe's  entertaining book and we want to learn more about Dodgson and his contemporaries.  Scenes and phrases linger in our minds long after the book has been put down.<br />This is my definition of a good book.We close Roiphe's  entertaining book and we want to learn more about Dodgson and his contemporaries.  Scenes and phrases linger in our minds long after the book has been put down.<br />This is my definition of a good book.	2001-12-23
US	51179259	RKMBUGWUMBZL3	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	3	8	N	N	A brilliant but excruciating book	Fast Food Nation is a fascinating book, well researched and documented, but very depressing.  Although it is written in relatively short &quot;bites&quot; (an unfortunate metaphor) I found it difficult to keep my attention on each short section, particularly as the book went along.  <br />Part of this difficulty is due, I think, to the fact that there are so many facts laid out on each page.  To do the book justice requires a good deal of concentration.   But it also paints such an unhappy picture of capitalism in America.<br />I hesitate to use the word &quot;capitalism&quot; in this context, because of its inevitable rhetorical associations. Critics of the book fault the author, Eric Schlosser, for his relentless assaults on all levels of government, and in particular, Republican ones, as well as on individual Republican representatives.  I agree that Schlosser attacks with heavy-handedness.  His book would be far more enjoyable if he used a lighter touch.  This book has a near-textbook approach to the fast-food industry, and the author pulls no punches.<br />But the information he imparts is so overwhelming that one wonders what he could have done to mitigate its message, short of leaving it out completely.  Schlosser examines every facet of the business, leaving no stone unturned.  His main focus is on the fast-food giant, McDonald's.  But when he zeroes in on the companies' food suppliers, particularly the meat suppliers, we realize the complexity of problem.  So much needs to be done, particularly in the field of inspection, that it all seems almost hopeless.  Our society wants a quick fix to every problem and there isn't one. <br />Schlosser takes the reader step by gruesome step through the meatpacking houses.  One fact emerges clearly.  One of the prime ways to realize profits is speed: speed of fattening the beef cattle, speed of slaughter, speed of disembowelling, speed of cutting.  This constant pressure on the assembly line workers not only puts them indanger, but it compromises the cleanliness of procedures, making the slaughterhouse prey to meat contamination.  Instead of focusing on the primary causes of this tainting, Schlosser asserts, the meatpacking industry and the U.S. Department of Agriculture are now advocating &quot;an exotic technological solution to the problem of foodborn pathogens,&quot; the irradiation of meat. (Experts say the procedure is inherently safe.  But it seems particularly ironic to read about this in light of recent world events, when terrorists were able to commit enormous atrocities because the old security networks had broken down at field-agent levels and officials in charge were relying more and more on satellites and other technology to deal with the nation's enemies.)<br />Fast Food Nation is a wonderful, devastating book. I could not bear to read another one like it for some time.	2001-11-07
US	51179259	R28MGAMP44LPPA	0451171861	468523306	Immoral Certainty (Signet)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A pleasure for Tanenbaum fans	Although Immoral Certainty is one of Robert K. Tanenbaum's older Butch Karp novels it is well worth a read by fans, or even readers new to the series.   <br />First published in 1991, this book goes back to the earlier days of the Karp-Ciampi association.  Admittedly, this oddball couple may be an acquired taste.  But their sizzling relationship is buttressed by a deep respect for each other's legal abilities. The author's own experience and understanding of the arcane world of the legal system enables him to lift improbable plot into the realm of logic and feasibility.   <br />In fact, as Tanenbaum points out, the art of successfully nabbing criminals consists in a large part of the attending to boring minutiae by the foot soldiers of the prosecutorial staff.  In the writer's own words, &quot;The law radiates tedium the way a ballet does grace or an orchestra harmony.&quot;  Fortunately for the reader, Tanenbaum sweeps us through the crucial humdrum of a criminal trial and highlights the nexus, so we all can delude ourselves, briefly, that we are as clever as a Butch Karp or a Marlene Ciampi. He connects the dots for us even as we are seduced by his seemingly far-fetched plots and sub-plots.<br />In this book, Marlene becomes acquainted with firearms and we are introduced to her bewitched fascination with their violent potential. &quot;I don't know,&quot; she says after an initial visit to the firing range, &quot;it had an effect on me I didn't expect.&quot; It turns out she's a natural.  It is one of the ongoing talents of her character that becomes both useful to her and repelling to this reader.  <br />Tanenbaum's characters are always interesting, although occasionally conveniently naïve.  An example is the schoolteacher Anna who buys her sociopath boyfriend's explanation that the reason he uses a variety of credit cards with other people's names on them is because they are &quot;corporate cards.&quot; True, the author says she has a reasonably sharp brain that is disengaged in the boyfriend's company &quot;in favor of another set of organs entirely.&quot;  But Anna is not unattractive and this descent into bimbo-ism stretches the imagination.  <br />Yet overall, the writer pulls this intense story together.   Tanenbaum is always engaging.	2001-10-28
US	51179259	R1YDSR01YHKMSO	0446605409	348227423	Plum Island	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Energetic and entertaining	At the start of this book Nelson De Mille says that concerning the United States Department of Agriculture Animal Disease Center at Plum Island, he has taken a &quot;small amount of literary licence regarding the island and the work done there.&quot; In this age of terrorism, genuine fear and paranoia, one wonders just how much licence the author took. Previously we would have expected exaggeration; now we almost hope he played it down. <br />John Corey is both hero and anti-hero. A Manhattan homicide detective badly wounded in the line of duty, he is convalescing at his uncle's house on Long Island. Friends of Corey's, an attractive couple of research scientists, are murdered. They worked on Plum Island, where dangerous biochemical experiments are performed. Corey's friend, the local township police chief, Sylvester Maxell, hires him to help on a consulting basis. Corey's efforts seem to comprise equal parts of consulting and insulting. He has a &quot;wiseass&quot; attitude, which is amusing to read, but his motivation for so much sarcasm is not clear. Maybe it goes with his profession.<br />Immediately, different levels of government converge on the case. The CIA and the FBI behave in usual enigmatic fashion. However, Corey is more than ingenious, and he continues to make headway on his own despite subsequent efforts from higher-ups to lock him out of the investigation. The female detective in charge of the county's investigation at first gives him a hard time and then works with him.<br />Corey is tough and cynical, and he is also good looking, constantly attracting attractive women. It is fun to follow his exploits in this department while he narrows the chase from feasible red herrings. <br />Increasingly puzzling and frightening events escalate relentlessly. In this story, DeMille's characters appear somewhat more archetypal than in some of his other tales, and the final denouement is longer than it has to be. But the plot is instructive and the prose highly readable.	2001-09-25
US	51179259	R1PBWDFXK25FK	0743403428	295784276	Enemy Within	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not Tanenbaum's best but still good	At his worst, Robert K. Tanenbaum is a good read. At his best, he is a fabulous read. The Enemy Within is neither his worst nor his best. In his latest book, the plot relies heavily on coincidence, and the closing sequence is nothing short of surreal. <br />Nonetheless Tanenbaum is still excruciatingly funny. Had I ever entertained ambitions to belong to New York's social glitterati, Marlene's brief sojourn therein would have cured me forever. Marlene has regressed back into a character rather more unlovely than she has been for some time, and the scope of her exploits makes even Nancy Drew sound plausible. But at her strangest (and with questionable motivation) Marlene is still fun and funny to read about. <br />And Tanenbaum manages to make Butch and Marlene Karp's daughter Lucy palatable which is no small feat since she has evolved from being not merely a linguistic phenomenon but additionally a mystic one. Not content with conquering the world's spoken languages, Lucy is now tuning in words that no one else can hear. I do care about the compelling Lucy, but Marlene is more interesting, just as in Milton's Paradise Lost, Satan is the more engaging, at least in a literary sense. <br />Tanenbaum has an annoying tendency to toss his secondary protagonists aside before their time, which is not fair when all of them are so vivid and so well defined. If he absolutely promises to live forever and never to stop writing, he may yet redeem himself (Tran is thankfully brought back here in one of the book's many coincidences) but the author had better eat all his veggies and otherwise look after his health, because otherwise even his fans will find certain omissions unbearable. Quick, how long till the next Tanenbaum?	2001-09-19
US	51179259	R2WAJRZ4EXJASY	0743405900	344809762	True Justice	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gets better and better	I am almost afraid to start Tanenbaum's latest book (The Enemy Within, which is sitting at my elbow as I type this) because I fear it will be a let-down after his wonderful tale of True Justice. <br />I have enjoyed all Tanenbaum's books and have been made aware of much about the spirit of the law from them. But even though his writing is always irresistible, his characters have not always been appealing. It seems as though over their years of living and loving together, Butch Karp and his wife Marlene Ciampi have become better people. It is the way a good marriage should be. The protagonists do not lose their edge, but they become somehow easier to identify with. This is ludicrous, because any people more unusual than Butch and Marlene and their daughter Lucy would be impossible to find in real life, but Tanenbaum is a master at making the unbelievable believable. <br />There was one tiny thread that was left a little frayed at the book's conclusion and this nagged at me; it was the philosophical acceptance of fate by one well-centred character who did not deserve it. But knowing Tanenbaum, it is quite possible that this interesting person will appear again in later books, and perhaps we will learn more then. <br />The author's characters are never truly archetypal. They all have good and bad points and are not defined in one-dimensional aspects. It gives the impression that Tanenbaum has, in his lifetime, actually met every single one of these people, and probably he has.<br />And he can be very funny. I laughed aloud in at least one scene. This humour was an unexpected bonus that caught me by surprise.<br />Tanenbaum's knowledge of the law is admirable in itself, but the fact that he is so compelling when he reveals it is a gift, God's grace, as his character Lucy might say. We are fortunate he chooses to use it in this way, sharing it with so many of us.	2001-09-09
US	51179259	RW4DCZ4HFFP2X	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Enjoyable but...	Fast Women is my second book by Jennifer Crusie. I read Crazy for You and thought it was amusing. However, this second one started off well and seemed to trickle off. It wasn't just that the plot was a bit far-fetched or that there were some strange dynamics between some of the characters. Crusie handles that fairly well and there was a nice pace to the book. The extended cast of characters became hard to keep track of at times and I found it difficult to get my hooks into some of the players; Margie, the rather ditzy friend who was close by at her mother's violent death and who was dumped by her husband is a prime example.<br /> Crusie has a formula that works: as in Crazy for You there are two brothers, one difficult and brooding and almost gothic while the other is more handsome but more of a lightweight, at least on the surface. A dog becomes an important and appealing part of the supporting-cast in both books. But she handles these in deft fashion, so I'm not objecting to the formula. The writing overall is witty. And there was some good suspense. <br /> I will still look forward to reading more of Crusie's books.<br /> But...what can I say? If it were a child's toy top, Fast Women could have done to be wound just a little bit tighter.	2001-09-03
US	51179259	R1QDSTE5NRLJD	0684870762	790691623	My Father's Daughter: A Memoir	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Generally candid and a surprisingly good read	Tina Sinatra's tribute to her father, Frank Sinatra, made me curious to play his music again. I never was a Sinatra fan, although his music is pleasant enough. His public persona was not a sympathetic one and at times it was downright sleazy. And yet, allowing for her understandable bias, if his daughter could write about him today with love  and respect, he clearly had something more going for him than mere charisma and moxie. <br />Tina's mother, Frank's first wife, Nancy Barbato, had a lot to do with what was good about Frank. She brought up their three children in a surprisingly stable home, and allowed Frank's best inclinations as a parent plenty of scope. I think I would like to know the senior Nancy. That said, she was also an enabler of his life style, letting him have the best of both worlds: a mutually loving relationship with his children coupled with the freedom to rove. <br />For someone who did not grow up before the 1960s, this attitude would be unfathomable, but as Tina herself writes, Nancy was an old-fashioned Italian Roman Catholic wife in an era when papà knew best no matter what. Whatever a modern young woman would think of this arrangement, Nancy Barbato deserves praise for holding an unusual family together. I suspected, too, as I read, that perhaps this was enough for Nancy and maybe she did not really want more from a husband who was prone to wandering. <br />But still-Frank Sr. was a loving parent and a real presence in the life of his children. His relationship with his son, Frankie, remains nebulous. Perhaps Frank was one of those men who can best relate to women; sexually, yes, but spiritually too. <br />Frank's daughter Nancy wrote a book in the 1980s about her father which I have not read, but that has been panned as being unbelievably sugary. In fairness, a book like Tina's could not have been written during her father's lifetime.<br />Having myself dealt with watching a dynamic father deteriorate with age until finally succumbing tothe inevitable, I felt a great empathy with the Sinatra children. Tina writes of her father's mental deterioration but I suspect it started long before even she was aware of it. I happened to have been invited to a performance in Vancouver during the 1988 tour of Sinatra, Dean Martin, and Sammy Davis. Back then, I was surprised at the sloppiness of the show. Sammy Davis, I felt, was the only player who gave a worthy performance. If someone had dropped out early, I would have thought it would have been Frank and not Dean. But, ironically, Sammy would die first, followed by Dean Martin, and last, Frank Sinatra. <br />Today I am mellower, as I understand at first hand how ageing people lose their edge yet struggle to go on. I like to think I would have been more kindly disposed to those three old-timers who had more than paid their dues. But at the time, I thought only of how much was paid for the tickets and what a travesty the show was.<br />Barbara Marx Sinatra, Frank's fourth wife and surviving widow, remains an enigma in this story. It is hard to believe that this woman could be quite as unpalatable as Tina writes. I suspect that Frank tended to defer to her as the path of least resistance, making Barbara &quot;take the rap&quot; for many unpleasantries. But she does not come across as a particularly warm woman at the best of times. <br />I remember when I was quite young reading an autobiographical comment by the late Hollywood gossip columnist, Hedda Hopper, in which Hopper paid tribute to her ex-husband's second wife for making sure that Hedda and De Wolf Hopper's son, William Hopper, as De Wolf's heir, was given a family memento. I thought at the time it was a gracious lesson in step-parenting. A relatively small gesture can go so very far. Whatever her reasons, Barbara's way was not along this path. It is regrettable.<br />Regardless of her partialities, Tina Sinatra is to be commended on a forthright book that is a truly interesting read.	2001-06-10
US	51179259	R1O54W7Z2QVJYY	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A haunting, beautiful and  disturbing book	Massoud Behrani is a proud Iranian, now an American citizen.  For all his genuine integrity, his pride is his downfall.  In the deepest recesses of his heart, he resents his family for their failure to comprehend their true economic plight. But ultimately he has only himself to blame because he will not, cannot, level with them.  Behrani is all too typical of a unique class of immigrant,  a foreigner of former high rank, who despises his new contemporaries yet desperately strives to fit in.<br />When at last his beautiful daughter has made a suitable marriage, her family feel free to leave the ostentatious rented apartment they had maintained for appearances. <br />Behrani precipitously purchases  a  small house near San Francisco for a laughably low price at auction.  With   no forewarning he forces his wife and son to move to the house, which he sees as the keystone of a comfortable future investing in real estate.  His neurotic wife and his handsome young son do rise admirably to the occasion, and he thinks he is at last on the road to success.<br />When his ownership of the house is potentially threatened due to a county bureaucratic error in evicting the wrong owner from the wrong house, he becomes arrogant; or rather, he becomes more arrogant, for even when he was admirably slogging away at the most menial of jobs, he held Americans and most of his fellow immigrants, in disdain, and insisted on reminding others that he was Colonel  Behrani of the now-defunct air force of the hated  Shah.  <br />Perhaps if he had shown the least iota of compassion for  the pretty but fragile and  aimless Kathy Nicolo, herself in a tenuous state of recovery from substance abuse, things might have been different.  She has recently been dumped by her husband; it seems to have pushed her into a state of numb inertia.<br /> A sympathetic married deputy sheriff (with the heavily symbolic name of &quot;Les Burdon&quot;) presides at her eviction, but he becomes unaccountably infatuatedwith her, and they start an affair.  <br />Les Burdon does not live up to his name, however, as. while professing to love Kathy, he inexorably drags her down. First, on her own, she gives in to the urge to start cigarettes again. In no time she is chain smoking, heavily. Soon, in denial, she begins drinking along with her lover, telling herself that her problem has been cocaine and not booze.  Even for a loser like Kathy, she seems to drift too easily into Les's pathetic, straying aura as he dumps his wife and children and endangers his job by attempting to strong-arm the Behranis in an attempt to help her.  His motivation seems a little irrational; his wife seems to be a far more attractive and worthwhile human being than Nicolo, but then, he proves to be a weak man. He has often felt like an imposter and a down-and-out victim like Kathy  may be what he thinks he deserves.<br />The main characters are alternately appealing and repellent.  Their inexorable descent into tragedy seems at once inevitable  and totally avoidable.  At times it is hard to believe that three human beings (Behrani, Nicolo, and Burdon) who individually have struggled  so far in life can fall so quickly.  But the superb writing and scene-setting   makes it all plausible, and virtually tangible. On the rare occasion when the writer seems to be reaching, his prose is nonetheless riveting.<br />I ultimately judge a book by the impression it leaves with me, and this story,  these protagonists,  keep reappearing to me throughout the day. This is a good book.   This is  a  great book.	2001-06-05
US	51179259	RUNLWRX7QCDAY	0679200215	98211502	Behold Your Queen	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Still a good read	This book was given to me as a Sunday School prize when I was 10 or 11 years old. I loved it.  I recently found another copy which I plan to give my granddaughter.  I re-read it and found it is still a good read and I  will check out other books by Gladys Malvern.   &quot;Behold Your  Queen!&quot; may be more myth than reality, and in some aspects is today  not quite &quot;politically correct.&quot; It is nonetheless a gripping  story. I even read the Book of Esther and could see where the author  incorporated descriptions of the royal palace into her narrative.  I  recommend this book which stands the test of years because it is well  written and is the type of book which would send a reader off on other  quests for knowledge.	2000-06-29
US	51179259	R2SBMDHH19SHYA	0773731202	181566028	The Eatons: The Rise and Fall of Canada's Royal Family	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A flawed but fascinating book	When I was very young I was with my mother and sister visiting relatives in a big city.  One day I found myself sitting in a restaurant next to a young man, Nicolas, whose wealthy father, a friend of the family, had  invited us to tea.  The young man made no secret of his boredom, yawning  widely and frequently.  Searching for a topic that might lift his ennui, I  asked him:  &quot;Do you drive a car?&quot;   He smirked and, holding up a  couple of fingers, said:  &quot;No, I drive TWO cars.&quot;<br />That is the  type of hubris Rod McQueen depicts in his book about the rise and fall of  Eaton's, Canada's famous chain of department stores.  The four brothers who  ultimately presided over the store's demise were cut from the same cloth as  that long-ago Nicolas.    <br />McQueen's book excels at guiding the reader  through the financial sleights of hand performed by the various companies  owned by the Eatons while the store itself marched toward its relentless  demise.  The author does not draw an appealing portrait of the Eatons, and  most people would not dispute this depiction.  However, his contempt is so  blatant it detracts from what should be a more balanced account.  He chides  Eaton's for being slow to hire French-speaking staff in Quebec, but I lived  in Montreal during the 'sixties and I recall that their catalogue order  takers spoke English with a thick francophone accent.  McQueen correctly  shows the family coping with financial woes through excessive staff  cutbacks starting in the 'seventies, but he fails to mention that this was  a national phenomenon of the day, and applied to The Bay and other large  stores as well.  Thus began the rise of the small boutique.<br />Finally,  McQueen's thesis about the difficulties of retailing in Canada and of  Eaton's in particular is often indisputable.  Yet some unflattering latter  day comparisons do not seem quite fair.  He contrasts   a failing Canadian  mall in the small free-standing city of Sarnia, Ontario with a thriving one  in Troy, Michigan.  Troy, although smaller, is close to the large  population of metropolitan Detroit. Also, McQueen does not address all the  issues.  Malls fail everywhere, and not just in Canada. Many American malls  near the border depend on Canadian shoppers and they fell on hard times  when Canada's dollar did. <br />The book is, however, well worth the read,  especially as it tells the fascinating tale of the beginning of the  business in Toronto that was launched by Timothy Eaton in 1869.  Parts of  the history could do with more fleshing out, yet despite his bias, McQueen  does make his case about what happens  when a store's owners stop minding  the store.	2000-03-31
US	51179259	R3KG116JH9QFWG	0889621918	574007809	Bantams: The Untold Story of World War I	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Forgotten heroes	This book chronicles the forgotten plight of the undersized British men determined to join the armed forces and to fight for their country, often against amazing odds, during World War I.  <br />At the outset of the war,  when men were enlisting in droves, many diminutive males, though patriotic  and fit,  were being turned away again and again because they did not meet  the traditional height requirements of the battlefield.<br />As time passed, a  few far-sighted men prevailed and a unit of men ranging in height between  five feet and five-feet-three-inches was formed. After rigorous training  (at first with weapons that were difficult for them to manoeuver due to  their small stature) they were despatched across the channel to fight as  bravely and effectively, and to suffer as much, as any company.      Although the book starts off a little slowly, it soon swings vigorously  into fascinating details of the forming of the company that came to be  known as the Bantams, highlighted amidst the larger aspects of the war:  well-known tales of the ineffective leaders who relinquished legions of  soldiers in a never-ending war of attrition; colossal sacrifices for a hill  or several yards of land that would be abandoned again in a day or two.   Then there are less familiar but equally compelling accounts about the  feckless narcissism of senior officers or bewildered troops reviewed by an  inebriated monarch.   Through it all, the Bantams retained their courage  and, miraculously, their sense of humour.    <br />The author has made it his  task to tell their story. And like the bantam soldier it depicts, this book  is a small gem.	2000-03-12
US	51179259	R2LDXWLMEICG3C	0671881612	249435806	Isabel'S Bed	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Just short of hilarious	Isabel's Bed is elegantly written but would be more satisfying to the reader if the characters were    more fleshed out.Someone told me not to miss this book because it is so funny.  Well, it IS funny.  Elinor Lipman has set up an interesting situation with unusual characters and manages to  make some rather unsavoury people look surprisingly appealing. But Isabel  turns out to be much nicer than she should be.  A twist at the end of the  plot vindicates her somewhat, but the reader wonders how a woman in her  forties with so much self confidence and potential could get into so much  trouble. When she turns out to be so doggone nice, it almost lacks  credibility. <br />Still, the author concludes with a satisfactory ending and  the loose ends of the plot itself are pleasantly and firmly tied up. If  there is a nebulous thread or two, it applies to characters whom we have  come to view with jaundiced eye.<br />This was the first Lipman book I have  read and I don't intend it to be my last. Lipman has a splendid sense of  irony.  However, although I usually believe that less is more, I hope that  the next book of hers I read is a little meatier.	2000-03-12
US	51179259	R26TF2N0F2F8JC	0679776818	168251186	Birdsong: A Novel of Love and War	Books	4	2	6	N	N	There is a connection	It has been quite a while since I read this book, which I found excellent and rivetting.  The only reason that I did not give it 5 stars is a personal one:  I like a book to have just a little more lightness in it, if  only for the contrast (sort of the way the technique in painting of  chiaroscuro emphasizes both light and darkness).  However, that is just a  personal thing, as I say, and it really should have...well, there isn't a 4  and 3/4 star category... <br />There is a connection between the steamy sex in  the book and the war.  Aside from the fact that steamy sex is always a good  read, I think the author intended it as metaphor:  sex and death.  However,  this sex was somewhat depressing in its intensity, no doubt intended to  parallel a very intense war. But that's why I choose to withhold my  imaginary &quot;quarter star.&quot;	2000-02-23
US	51179259	R34BRHLMV6BHRE	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	4	78	82	N	N	Fascinating till the abrupt ending	I am close to the age of Isabel Allende and she always has the power to evoke strong memories of my childhood in Chile. Her writing is vivid and never disappointing, and is, as well, exceptionally well translated into  English. Daughter of Fortune is written with Allende's usual flair and has  the added advantage of spotlighting an interesting chapter of history  involving the many Chilean treasure seekers during the San Francisco Gold  Rush.<br />However,in this case, Allende's unravelling of the plot leaves too  many knots intact at the end. Even allowing for the mysteries of magical  realism, I have the feeling that the editors of a less well established  author would never let her get away with that; the reader is left with the  gnawing feeling that Allende tired of her plot: after tossing in several  random clues, the author grew bored, lost focus,  and dropped the story  abruptly. <br />Since Allende is such a wonderful writer, I would add my voice  to those of other readers who would like her to alleviate our frustration  by presenting us with a satisfying sequel.	2000-01-22
