US	51179194	R1KLB9H539QAXC	0788155245	567673846	Listening to Prozac : A Psychiatrist Explores Antidepressant Drugs and the Remaking of the Self	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Deals with the right questions	I much enjoyed reading this book. I found that he raises all the right question. <br />The author is a clinitian who, after noticing some remarkable transformation in patient taking the medication, investigates the clinical, ethical and philosophical issues surrounding Prozac (or similar medication). For instance, how does new medication influence clinical practice? If medication can trigger deep changes in patients' personality, then what is the &quot;self&quot; and how are we to distinguish the &quot;essential self&quot; from mood and transient characteristic. What is personality, temperament or character. In a broader sense, the author revisit the nature-nurture debate. If Prozac influence a cluster or personal traits in patient, this would indicate that a number of these traits are biologically based. The author also discusses moral issues surrounding the administration of drugs such as Prozac to generally healthy patient. How moral is it to try to use drug to give patients characters' trait that are valued by society.<br />While the author does use Prozac in his practive and does hide the fact that he finds its use benefitial in many cases, the book is not an apology of Prozac but rather a discussion of deeper issues surrounding the medication.<br />My only criticism of the book is that I would have like to see the author spend more time in unsuccessful use of Prozac. I have a mood disorder and I have been on most types of anti-depressant known to mankind and I have met a number of patient using Prozac or similar medication. My own experience of SSRIs medication is far from being all positive. Unlike many patient he describes who find that they are &quot;better than well&quot; and &quot;really themselves&quot; on Prozac, I find myself being transformed into somebody I am not while on medication. Medication works in so far as it makes me less depressed. Everybody likes me better on medication but I don't &quot;feel myself&quot;.  <br />At any rate, my personal experience with AD medication made me think about such issues (Who am I? What part of me is just a reaction to a mood I am in and what part of me is essentially me? Are these medication transforming me into somebody else? Who am I taking these medication for? Is it for me or to make me a better partner, worker and consumer? I am less creative on meds, is neurosis essential to creativity, etc.). This book gave me insight and different perspective into these topics.	2004-03-15
US	51179194	R1BFQV4R3CGPF0	0671019112	61165871	Learned Optimism: How to Change Your Mind and Your Life	Books	3	37	49	N	N	***** for self-help, 0* for scholarship	This book starts by demonstrating that animals can learned to be helpless. Seligman then goes on to examine the explanation styles that people have and how these beliefs affect the way they behave.<br />Generally speaking the first part of the book, which is dedicated to the differences in explanatory styles is quite interesting. The section also contains a couple of self-test to measure your own level of optimism and your level of depression. I should say in passing that it is somewhat regrettable that the portion that shows readers how to change their explanatory styles is at the back of the book rather than immediately following the test results. I say that because chronic pessimist/depressive people like myself (I scored abysmally on both test) might be tempted to give up and kill themselves before they find out that the author actually tries to help them feel better. The portion at the back (learn how to be an optimism) constists of simple but undeniably effective tricks to change your way of thinking. All is consistent with \\"mood therapy\\" \\"cognitive psychology\\" types of similar works.<br />While there is no question that Seligman in on to something with his theory on optimism, he tries to use it to death by applying to just about everything including politics, society and history. Through history, there has been no shortage of philosophers who attempted to use one basic principle to explain society. Be it weather (Montesquieu), atoms (atomist Greek philosophy) or the evolution, it generally turn out to produce simplistic and poor scholarship. That kind of explanation also hides (although rather poorly) a deep sense of ethnocentrism.<br />If Seligman seriously think that one can explain voters' choices on the sole base of the optimistic/pessimistic profile of the candidates, I hope for him he is smoking good crack. What is more worrysome is his complete lack of understanding of basic concepts such as society, ideology and culture. For instance, one chapter is acomparison of East and West German media. Not only does it leave out important questions (such as how are the media produced and how closely do they reflect the readers' view)but what about ideology. Well of course, you'd expect a communist regime to give less weighting to individual agency in their explanation of events. Duh! At any rate the chapter explains nothing since his theories would have us expect that more optimistic group perform better which is not the case. <br />Personnally, I would have preferred a much shorter self-help book devoid of Seligman's naive positivist supertheories. It is a shame because in the end, his book could have raised good questions.<BR>After reading the introduction on how explanatory styles influence people's lives I thought \\"How interesting? What is the relationship between learned helplessness and poverty? What is the role of ideology and social institutions in reproducing social inequalities through teaching people to be helpful or helpless, etc.\\"<BR>But instead, Seligman was more interesting in whoring himself out by helping a life insurance company determine which job applicants are best suited? Guess what? I could not care less.	2004-02-09
US	51179194	R2KBEXV2V448LF	0782140947	374983409	Mastering XSLT	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very in-depth, invaluable but not for beginners	I have started reading this book and I am very impressed. The book is very detailed and full of valuable insights and tips that no doubt come from the extensive experience of the author. <br />XSLT is covered by many general XML books and there are a few books dedicated to it but when one start to use XSLT for complex real-life application often these books fall short. For instance, many books do not satisfactorily explain how to deal with namespaces, or white space or how to implement recursion.<br />Some of the examples given in the book are great as well: producing svg, rtf, pdf and documentation for the stylesheet. I also like the fact that the author is aware of XSLT 2.0 (currently a W3C working draft) which is not the case for many others xslt books and the fact that he spends some time covering vendor extensions. Generally I find it to be the most comprehensive reference contained in a single book.<br />The only downside of this book is that it is catered toward advanced readers. I do not recommend this book for somebody new to XML and XSLT. I think it would be hard to grasp the concepts using only this book as it comes right in the meat of the matter. For beginners I would rather recommend to start with the XSLT book from O'Reilly (ISBN: 0596000537) which is an easier read, to be later complemented by O'Reilly's XSLT coockbook (ISBN: 0596003722) which is also excellent.	2003-10-04
US	51179194	R3BVVMWQM3QOAH	0201703599	508025051	XML Family of Specifications: A Practical Guide (2 Vol Set)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	great book. Must have for CS students.	This book is not an &quot;how to&quot; guide, nor does it claim to be one. I mean by this that if you are, say a Java programmer looking for a book that concretely shows you how to integrate xml with Java then you would be better off with one of the so many Java/XML books on the market.<br />However, if in your work or your studies you feel that you need to gain a more thorough understanding of the W3C specifications related to XML, then this is the book to buy. <br />All the W3C specs are available for free on the web. The trouble is, W3C documents are designed to provide a precise definition of a standards, they are not designed to be especially intelligible by mere mortals (however technologically enclined). Some are quite readable, others far less.<br />Firstly, I really like that this book present all the relevant specifications and working drafts in perspective. Secondly, I found that it does a remarkably good job at translating these specifications (without simplifying them) in understandable terms. <br />In my work, I am interested in gaining as thorough as possible a view of XMl technologies and this book helps me greatly. I also like the fact that it present a well-organized bibliography at the end of each chapter (sadly many computer books from Wrox, O'reilly, Que an like don't have a bibiography as if to say &quot;everything inside this book comes straight from the author's mind. DO not look any further).<br />I have reviewed for myself around twenty XML books. I found this book to be one of my top favorite. I recommend it especially for:<BR>  - CS students or programmer with a theoretical bent.<BR>  - anybody who wants to get a thorough overview of W3C standards.	2003-09-21
US	51179194	RZBIBSBG06AH1	0201703440	596463698	XPath, XLink, XPointer, and XML: A Practical Guide to Web Hyperlinking and Transclusion	Books	4	4	4	N	N	understanding a standard	I found that the author did a really good job in describing these technologies.<br />This book is written by two academic and it shows in so far as it is on the one hand a little more theoretical and abstract than most other computer book I read and on the other hand well informed by a large context.<br />The book starts by describing the different hypertext system that exist and existed alongside with the world wide web. In doing so they explain clearly how HTML linking model came into being and the deficiencies of this model.<br />The remainder of a book is in part a preview into the future of XML linking (where these technologies are going) as well as an explanation of Xpath, Xlink and Xpointer syntax.<br />As you probably know, Xlink is still a W3C working draft at this time. Xpointer is a W3C recommendation but neither xpointer, nor xlink have been largely implemented in the industry.  This raise the question as to why would you read this book? <br />Personally I wanted to know where the linking model was going and I also wanted to understand the W3C working draft better. To a lesser extend, I was considering implementing these technologies.<br />My only objection to the book is its subtitle &quot;A practical guide...&quot;. Practical is a relative term. This book gives very valuable pointers (no pun intended) for developpers wishing to implement these technologies but it does not give very practical down to earth examples. In some other web ressources, I found for instance some XSLT code to tranform Xlink into scripting languages that simulate the xlink functionality and to tell the truth I was expecting to find this kind of material here.	2003-09-15
US	51179194	R1P5NIDD77ZR3J	0743202759	183886224	To America: Personal Reflections of an Historian	Books	2	5	29	N	N	Too many void patriotic cliches for my taste	I read this book largely because I was curious about Stephen Ambrose whose name I often saw cited as a comtemporary American historian. <br />This is a personal reflection of the author in which he tries to explain his political evolution (he started his career by being a liberal anti-war activist but he came to become much more conservative later in life). He also attempts to pay justice to historical figures (Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt) that many comtemporaries have come to criticize. <br />I was not very impressed by the book. I find that a large part of it is used to justify portions of the US history that I find hard to justify (he justifies for instance, bombing Hiroschima and Nagazaki, finds the recent condemnation of Jefferson as a slave holder unfair, finds the threatment of native american unfair but fails to condemn in outright without making reservations, etc. etc). I was interested to hear a different perspective that mine, I found that mostly he was reasserting void patriotic and ethnocentric cliches \\"the freest country on earth... the American century... The American won the second world war...\\" without giving them much substance. <br />As an example of this line of thinking he addresses the critiques of Teddy Roosevelt's imperilist policies. His argument is that Teddy Roosevelt had a great vision in a) instigating Federal protection of natural area b) had a clear vision of \\"America's rightful place in the world affair.\\" While I agree on the first point (TR's achievement in protecting the natural patrimony of the US), Ambrose gives me little reason why his interventionist policies where not imperialism or why America's \\"rightful place in the word\\" implies foreign military intervention. <br />What saves the book despite this, is the fact that as an opinion piece, the author does have some historical vision and insights and he does present faily well a number of more liberal arguments (even though I am personnally quite unconvinced by the answers he gives).<br />I suppose that how you feel about the book depends on your opinion before you read it. If you believe that, say, using the nuclear bomb on Japan was justified in the context of the second world war (it helped saving life and ended the war earlier, etc.), reading this book will make you feel validated. If on the other hand, you find that these were unjustifiable acts (by themselves, given the fact that Japanese were ready to surrender without the bomb, because it has a racist element behind it - US would not have used the same weapon against Germany, because it had more to do with avoiding that Japan surrendered to Stalin, etc.), this book will probably mostly irritate you but it may give you a perspective from the other side.	2003-04-29
US	51179194	R1ZU23SXTWMXFW	0736650385	416717355	A History Of The Twentieth Century, Vol. 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best audiobook I have!	I found that Martin Gilbert's history of the Twentieth Century was a very readable (audible in this case) book containing real scholarship. In that respect it is of a qualify much above others historical audiobook (&quot;the American century, etc.) which tend to be mostly patriotic books of little depth. <br />One of the interesting aspect of this book as well was the fact that it is presented from a mostly British perspective (the author is an Oxford professor) and therefore it pays more attention to different points of views than many others historical audiobooks which are usually very US-centered.   <br />M.Gilbert's work is thorough and serious. He has some biases (an uncritical admiration for Churchill, for instance) but nothing that matters excessively. <br />My only regret about the book was the fact that the voice reading the book sounded rather pompous and very dry. This is something which I find common in audiobooks from the same publisher and it not a defect of the work itself.<br />I listen to history audiobook everyday during my one hour commute and this has been one of the best audiobook I found so far. If you are interested in world history, wants to fill some gap in your general knowledge of the world and especially if you are tired of popular patriotic US-centered audio book, this is for you.	2003-04-29
US	51179194	RSWSS41GSOQWG	1559275243	544454716	The American Century, Volume I	Books	3	6	10	N	N	A popular conventional history	I listened to all books of the series. I found that it was enjoyable to listen to, quite lively and it helped me in filling some gap in my knowledge of history. As such I would recommend it. <br />Having said that I found that overall it is a popular history book of little scholarly value and as many such books it has strong patriotic, ethnocentric and us-centric overtones. <br />if you are looking for an easy to listen to history of the period, especially if you are not very knowledgeable about it, this is a good book for you.	2003-04-29
US	51179194	R2C3PI2SWU3DSL	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Not Murakami's best work	This is a well written book written on the first person. It is an account of the main character's life and more specifically of his romantic endavour. It is a slow and intimist story.<br />The narrator starts by by telling his first loves and the story goes back to the present. Because the character is given enough psychological depth, we get to understand better his frustration (the feeling that the life he lives is not his) and dilemna (following his love and true feeling or leaving his life as it is). <br />It is a perfectly fine book, however I wasn't grabbed by the story as I had been grabbed by other books from the same author. Part of it comes from the fact that the story line is a little flat and banal in my opinion and at times indulges in plain sentimentalism. While the characters are admirably built for the most part, the story lacks the youthful frankness of &quot;Norwegian book&quot; and the fantastic elements of &quot;spoutnik Sweetheart&quot;. There are many similar themes however: remaining true to one's feeling, love for an unreachable woman, suicide and music. <br />Yet, I have to admit that even though I was irritated by the book I felt compelled to finish it.	2002-07-03
US	51179194	RB2HL69FQB6CK	0130284173	432085217	XML How to Program	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very clear, good learning book - not perfect though.	I much enjoyed this book as the presentation of complex topics is made very clear. I feel that this book helped me to understand several topics that I never fully understood before (for instance XLink).<br />Generally the approach in this book is to give a clear and concise coverage of each important topics. This is the best approach to learn but reader should be aware that the coverage is not exhaustive enough for the book to serve as reference. In fact I would have prefered that the author added complete reference on several topics (XML DOM, XPath, XSLT, XSLFO) instead of the 'bonus programming chapter'.<br />The book is catered for programmers. As a result the table of content will satisfy programmers (unlike many beginning XML books it gives ample coverage of XML APIs) but examples are sometimes non-trivial and written in high-level programming languages. Although generally, it must be said that effort has been made to use various programming languages (i.e. Perl, Java, ASP, etc) so that everybody should find some useful examples.<br />I would have prefered additional coverage of XML services, SOAP, etc. Also, I found that several chapters (Programming java, programming Perl, etc.), while not useless, were clearly off topic and added to fill-in pages. Only other criticism is that the book is really quite expensive. However, it is one of the best book to LEARN xml (even though you may require additional reference to use it).<br />One last thing: do not buy the CD ROM training kit of the book. The CD ROM included is very disappointing.<br />Edit: I wrote this review a while back. Since then, I revisited the book and I must say that it does appear dated. In particular the coverage of schema (an important topic) fails to suitably cover the W3C Schema recommendation and focusses mostly on Microsoft's version of schema which are now hardly used. For this reason, I would recommend another book instead (for instance, Beginning XML from Wrox) until the publisher comes with an updated edition.	2002-05-15
US	51179194	R2JY58QS0RE8EV	0130895571	1322999	The Complete XML Programming Training Course (1st Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great book -  multimedia material a joke	I much enjoyed the book that is part of the package. As usual with the authors, I found that the book was concise, to the point, very pedogical and clear. I liked the self-review exercises at the end of each chapter as well. <br />I also enjoyed the table of content of the book that was obviously designed for programmer (so many introduction xml book avoid all useful topics - DOM, SAX etc). The &quot;bonus&quot; chapters (server-side programming with Java etc) while not useless, sounded a bit like they were there only to fill the book but never mind. <br />I was very disappointed on the other hand by the CD ROM that came with the book. It only features the text of the book in unattractive format and offer only scant interactive or multimedia material (ok there is an interactive quizz). Reading the publisher description, I had come to expect an actually interactive CD ROM. For this reason, while I would warmly recommend the book as an introduction to XML (one of the best around, with Beginning XML from WROX) I would advice for buying the book alone, not the course package.	2002-03-15
US	51179194	R35UTUQFNPW9GC	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Anger	The book tells about a generation of 30 something men (incidently I fit that description) who are angry to discovered that they did not become the movie stars, millionaies, what society claim they would and are very angry about it. They express their rage beating each others up in underground fighting club. Later the whole thing evolved into a more elobarate terrorist plot. The story is told by the narrator whose job is to apply the formula (is it cheaper to organize a recall or to indemnify the victims) for a large car company.<br />It is a very powerful book, although a little strange. I don't think anybody would like it, in particular I don't think many women would. If you are seen the film, there are many significant differences.	2001-09-30
US	51179194	R3LFTTPCW73LZY	0679760229	6837157	Quicksand	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Good but not the author's best work	The book deals with many of Tanizaki's usual themes: erotic obsession, deceipt, manipulation, a man who cannot but submit itself to his wife so much his desire for her is overwhelming, etc. One of the author's usual theme that I do not remember was very present is Westernization. <br />While by no mean a bad bood, I was dissapointed reading it. I think that the book lacks some of the intensity and natural flow of the author's author main work such as Naomi, The Key and Diary of an Mad Old Mad. The story line seemed a bit coerced at times. I must however concede my personal bias of having read perhaps too much of his work within a short time.	2001-09-29
US	51179194	R1IBRELZDXVDNR	0151002703	518332576	On Parole	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very real	The story tells about a man on parole after purging a long prison sentence (for murdering his wife and her lover) and his difficulties in readjusting to daily life. Other themes present in the novel are the quality of freedom available to an ex-convict and his incapability to feel guilt. The novel is very touching. It rings very true. Some small details of the main character's difficulties in readapting to 'normal' life especially give the whole novel a tone of realism.<br />Perhaps some of the reader might have seen &quot;the Eel&quot;; a Japanese film that was distributed in the West. THat film was based on a novel from the same author. The story is not the same but the athmosphere and themes are very similar.	2001-09-29
US	51179194	R2MU491YQLA5GW	0672319012	632949710	Sams Teach Yourself Dreamweaver UltraDev 4 in 21 Days	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Some odd choices and advices in the book	I have been teaching an Ultradev recently and used this book (not my choice) as a teaching material.<br />The book is decent and does cover most of Ultradev functionality but I was not fully satisfied for the following reason.<br />- The book uses mySQL as the database for the examples. I certainly have nothing again mySQL which is an open source and well-respected database however, I wished more coverage of other databases had been included. In particular some example rely on mySQL functions are are not immediately transposable to other databases which is frustrating for the readers. ALso, although the author mention stored procedures (that are supported by Ultradev), some example would have been nice.<BR>- The chapter on state management (users login) was unsatisfactory. The author talks at length about state management in general but fails to demonstrate the user of Ultradev in built server behavior to that effect. The author recommend using session id instead of cookies but practical examples (for instance a shopping basket) are lacking. In addition there is no coverage of each environment's specific state management capabilities (some mention of ColdFUsion's session and client variables that can use cookies or url parameters would have been nice).<br />- I strongly disagree with some of the author's recommendations. For instance, even though he does discuss somewhat the security implications of doing so, there is an example where credit card numbers are saved into the database (admitedly encrypted with mysql's proprietary function - that does not exist on most other db systems).  I find this very dangerous and think that it is dangerous to teach this to a beginning audience. In earlier chapter he also suggest using the SSN as file naming convention in order to save an image file for each employee. What a bad idea! Anybody looking at the code can see the SSN.  <br />But otherwise there are many examples that are quiet easy to follow. I also appreciated a large coverage of database design principle (even though some of his database design choices are a little odd as well).	2001-09-20
US	51179194	R18ZCCKCMAL0B7	0811204812	135231700	No Longer Human	Books	5	66	70	N	N	Very powerful book	This is one of the most powerful book I have ever read. <br />This novel (inspired by Dazai's autobiography and written in the first person) tells the story of one person who feels since childhood utterly alien from his fellow human beings but learn to put a face to hide his deep sense of alienation and his despise for the hypocrisy of society. He feels incapable to belong to a human society (hence the title). Follows a descent into alcohol, drugs, suicide as the main character enters into aldulthood. <br />The story did remind me a little of Camus' The stranger (l'etranger) in so far as both are a tale of a person alienated from the society at large. But Dazai also explore the sense of self-loathing and self-destruction and is therefore much darker (Camus sounds cheerful in comparison). <br />Dazai is known as a dark post-war writer and indeed this is a dark novel.	2001-09-20
US	51179194	R3MZK93AUDPMR2	0375411690	877497311	Sputnik Sweetheart	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very taking story	I read Norwegian Wood from the same author a little earlier. It is interesting that several characters are similar accross the two books.<br />It is really a nice book. Once again the author focusses on a few characters and their psychological profiles. THey are all made very real and very human.<br />However, unlike Norwegian wood, this story also contain some fantastic elements. The story starts with a realistic narrative tone but ends in a fanstastic manner. Because this is unexpected, one keeps thinking about it. <br />I can only recommend reading the book.	2001-09-20
US	51179194	R27OEF9PWEB4DJ	0375724745	874076537	Naomi	Books	5	2	3	N	N	literary masterpice but not suited for feminist readers	The story tells about one average man, attracted by all that is perceived as &quot;western and modern&quot; at the time who raise Naomi (a girl from modest background) to make her his perfect bride and later marry her. He attemps to make her his work (he uses similar words) but things do not turn out as he planned when he realizes she grew up to be a perverse, manipulative, evil woman. The main character however, ends up completely submitted to his desire for her and maintin his destructive relationship with her even though he despises his wife.<br />I read a few of Tanizaki's book and his work appear to have two main themes which are: the criticism of Japan's obsession for what is western (the book was written in the twenties I think) and the destructive erotic passion. Both these themes are prominent in Naomi which is one of his best work (along with &quot;The Key&quot; and &quot;Diary of a mad old man&quot;) as far as I can tell.	2001-09-20
US	51179194	R3J2PIG1AMKBDQ	4770017081	673435768	The Showa Anthology: Modern Japanese Short Stories 1929-1984 (Japan's Modern Writers) (Bks.1 & 2)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Highly recommended	I bought this book a few years ago and I loved it. I gave it to a friend and I miss it enough to buy another copy today.<br />One of the nice thing about this book is that it is an anthology of short stories. Some anthologies present the reader with cut-down version of the original texts which is always frustrating and this is not the case here. All short stories are of great quality written by prominent Japanese authors.<br />I also enjoyed the fact that there was an interesting introduction to the volume, as well as a short introduction to each author/contribution.<br />Last but not least, I enjoyed the fact that there is a large coverage of past-war Japanese authors who I generally prefer. <br />I found that book to be most enjoyable reading as well as a great introduction to Japanese literature. Reading it truly helped me to expand my knowledge of Japanese literature. I read many more novels from authors whose contribution to the volume I liked.	2001-07-03
US	51179194	R1Y87WYYZQ7QO7	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Recommended	I am not very good at reviewing fiction but Norwegian wood was a beatiful touching story focussing on the interplay between few complex characters. The story takes place in Tokyo in 68 and following. It starts with the interaction between Watanabe (the main character) and his relation with Nakao (the girlfriend of his best friend who commited suicide).<br />The translator note at the end of the book states that this work is more like a  traditional novel, as opposed to &quot;cool, fragmented, American-flavored narratives&quot; that characterise his previous work. Not having yet read any other work from Murakami, I could not comment on that.	2001-07-03
US	51179194	R23Z6CJP2TRJPH	4770017081	673435768	The Showa Anthology: Modern Japanese Short Stories 1929-1984 (Japan's Modern Writers) (Bks.1 & 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Highly recommended	I bought this book a few years ago and I loved it. I gave it to a friend and I miss it enough to buy another copy today.<br />One of the nice thing about this book is that it is an anthology of short stories. Some anthologies present the reader with cut-down version of the original texts which is always frustrating and this is not the case here. All short stories are of great quality written by prominent Japanese authors.<br />I also enjoyed the fact that there was an interesting introduction to the volume, as well as a short introduction to each author/contribution.<br />Last but not least, I enjoyed the fact that there is a large coverage of past-war Japanese authors who I generally prefer. <br />I found that book to be most enjoyable reading as well as a great introduction to Japanese literature. Reading it truly helped me to expand my knowledge of Japanese literature. I read many more novels from authors whose contribution to the volume I liked.	2001-07-03
US	51179194	RPJU4H1VYCZZY	1861002726	278475397	Beginning ASP Databases	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Should have been made Professional ASP database	Beginning ASP database covers in depth ADO programming for the ASP developer (although its more coverage of SQL is a little slim). Overall it does cover clearly everything one ought to know about ASP ADO programming. The focus of the book is however ASP databases and there is little coverage of ASP object generally unless they specifically relate to the topic. <br />While by no means a bad book, I think that WROX would have been much better inspired to make a Professional ASP database by the same author instead of the current book. The problem with this book is that the tone is that of a &quot;beginning&quot; book with a slow step by step approach. However, the topic is fairly specialized (since it is not enough as first and only book to learn ASP - it does not cover enough other uses of ASP) and more importantly it assumes too much knowledge for the true beginner (it does assumes for instance that the reader is already familiar with VBScript).<br />If you already have some programming experience or know some asp and need to have reference covering such topics as ADO programming, stored procedures, etc. this is a good book for you providing that you don't mind to be talked to like a real beginner. If on the other hand, you are looking for a first asp book, this is not the one.	2001-04-09
US	51179194	RD1TS937BLB6E	1861003412	52748144	Beginning Xml (Programmer to Programmer)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Possibly the best Intro book to XML	Hi,<br />I have been looking at number of XML books and I recently found the &quot;Beginning XML&quot; from Wrox which was really by far the best I have seen. <br />The book is very clearly explained. One of the thing that I particularly like about it is that the table of content is well-designed. While this may sounds trivial, it is not the case for many other Intro XML books I have seen, who typically tend spend too much time on the genesis of XML and little if any to topics of interest to programmers (The XML DOM or SAX for example). For this reason, I think that this book is the right book to get started. Perhaps complemented sometimes along the line by a another book dealing more in-depth with the specificities of the programming environment you are dealing with (such as the Java xml, VB xml or asp xml books by the same publisher).<br />The one thing that I was lukewarm about were some of the case studies: while designing a threaded discussion board with XML is ingenious, it is also one of the most difficult and inefficient ways that I could think of doing it. <br />The book cover indicates that this books is aimed at more or less every user. In my opinion, the book is aimed at experience web developers (knowing at least HTML) who understand basic programming concepts and have some programming experience (with anything). It does not on the other hand require the user to be fluent at all in Java, VB, ASP or Javascript for instance (although readers who have such knowledge will appreaciate some of the examples).	2001-01-21
US	51179194	REC4TZJ7A4FMH	1565923251	51644288	Webmaster in a Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	2	2	N	N	great reference overall but definite bias toward UNIX/Apache	Overall it is a very valuable reference but a few comments:<br />Regarding the table of content:<br />The book focuses largely on web development on a UNIX platform with Apache webserver and does not address many topics of relevance to those of us who (not necessarily by choice) work on windows.<br />The list of topic covered is quiet inclusive but I would have prefered a book one or two hundred pages thicker that would have included coverage of: ColdFusion, ASP, JSP, Applet programming, Active X controls and plugin based multimedia applications (Flash, etc). The current section on Apache configuration can go as far as I am concerned.<br />Regarding the book itself:<br />The book does a very good job at explaining simply and providing reference for a number of topics, especially for the price which is typically low for that kind of books. For instance, the section on CSS concisely and clearly review css principle (some coverage of css2 would have been good) and give a very good reference. Another example: the section on PhP did a perfect job to introduce me to that environment which I was unfamiliar with while offering a comprehensive reference.<br />However, the book (and the 'In a nutshell' collection as a whole) is designed for a public familiar with web authoring and programming concepts. I got acquainted with the book when I took over a class which uses it as a coursebook. As a coursebook it was less sucessful because it assumes too much knowledge of basic programming concepts (arrays, objects, etc) for real beginners. <br />To sum up:<br />If you are already familiar with web authoring and have programming experience, this is a very worthwhile book which may even prove to be about the only reference you need if you work is mostly on Apache with Perl or PhP. For server-side application programmer and multimedia designer, some additional reference may be needed.<br />I see that there is a deluxe edition of the book (currently out of print but still on sale at Amazon) which offer also five book on CD for a slightly higher price. I'ld go for that one.	2000-11-22
US	51179194	R26PHIU6D8D5LB	0253213290	125161663	New Media in the Muslim World: The Emerging Public Sphere (Indiana Series in Middle East Studies)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Enjoyable and informative	I most enjoyed reading New Media in the Muslim World. This bookexamines the recent introduction of mass education and theavailability of new media (including: fax machines, private and satellite Television channels, internet, desktop publishing as well as video tapes and telephone) in the Muslim World. These new media challenge existing modes of governmental and religious authority and creates new discursive spaces for the articulation of ethnic and religious identities. <br />This work starts with three theoretically oriented chapters and continues with ethnographies. All case study presented in the collection are immensely relevant to new media researchers, although only one of them deals specifically with the Internet. <br />Other themes consist of: the continuity between old and new in popular culture (Armbrust), interactions between technology and culture in the new &quot;communication ecology&quot; (White), how new communication networks have de-centered debates on the construction of ethnic identity to Europe (Yavuz), the narrowing gap between broadcast production and audiences and the intellectualization of Islamic discourse (both by Eickelman), the discovery of the civil society as a topic for debate in the Muslim world (Norton), etc. <br />One of the book's strengths is that no simplistic causal link is assumed between new communication technologies and their social impact. The essays are informed by a rich ethnographical context and an understanding of larger social and political. <br />This book comes to fill this gap with case studies of regions as diverse as diverse as Indonesia, Bangladesh, Turkey, Iran, the Arab world, and the United States...	2000-07-31
US	51179194	RDD3HY5JAU4WK	0789718103	180738561	Advanced Cold Fusion 4 Application Development	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very valuable book when working with little documented ...	This books has proven to be really very valuable to me. Especially considering that some of the topics covered in the book are scarcely documented (if at all) by Allaire. <br />I you intend to use CF with other  developping environments (whatever they are) or if you intend to extend on  the CFML language with other programming language, or if you intend to use  load balancing or advanced security, this book is for you.<br />There are a  few topics (about CFML) which I wished had been more thoroughly covered,  for example, I find that structures could have been explained at more  length (How use use arrays of structures, etc), also, I wished that there  had been more covereage of using Java with CFML (with CFAPPLET or cfx_J -  although use of the later is getting deprecated) but judging on how the  book has helped me in my work as a developper I give 5 stars without  hesitations.<br />If I had any recommendation to make to the authors, it would  be perhaps to slightly change the content of what it covered in this book  and in the other one: making one book on all of CFML and one dealing with  concerns for administrators (load balancing, security) and beyond CFML  extensions (i.e. CFx, COM, Corba, etc.).	2000-07-16
US	51179194	R2CIZOQE0QO61C	1861003323	516997528	Professional Visual Basic 6 XML	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Not an easy book but contains invaluable info	I read a 1/3 of the book (the sections I bought the book for). So far the book has been invaluable for the project I am working on. However, this is NOT an easy book: the material is complex no matter how you present it and  I had to go over it again and again to gain sufficient understanding of it.	2000-06-20
US	51179194	R3BIOB4N4VHNNU	078971809X	466131072	The ColdFusion 4.0 Web Application Construction Kit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is a great book, don't be intimidated by its size	This book is great.  If you are realy serious about CF development, you will end up buying the advanced book by the same editor (also by Que). <br />The book size is intimidating and for this reason it seems initially  that it is not most suited for an introductory book but it is. I wouldn't  waste any money on buying an introductory book - jump right in.	2000-06-18
US	51179194	R2KF7DRRGEL80X	0672315424	657942858	SAMS Teach Yourself visual basic 6 in 21 Days	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not that bad but hardly a &quot;professional reference&quot;	Some people find that &quot;teach yourself&quot; books are easy accessible and useful other find their style paternalising and annoying and I belong more to the later group. What got me to buy the book is that it seems to  have a good language reference at the back.  <br />This book is useful: I have  programming experience but no VB experience and using this book I got  started for a project. However, this book is not sufficient for my needs.   The database section is unsufficient and there is no coverage of xml so I  am buying another book and I wished I had started with a &quot;Que Special  edition&quot; or a &quot;unleashed&quot; type of books instead. But all and  all it is not a bad book to get started esp. if you have little programming  experience.	2000-06-18
