US	51170712	R1MIDXNW79AZJW	0393322157	805709963	Glue	Books	1	0	3	N	N	What happenned?	I was a big fan of Welsh in his previous novels. I truly thought him as the talent many claimed him to be. I didn't enjoy Filth much, but this Glue needs some cohesiveness. It's as if the author figured if he called the novel glue it would miraculously happen in the content of the book. This is my third attempt to read this book. I again gave up. This feels more like an anthropological text then a novel. I get a lot of background, the hows and whys these people do the things they do. But he doesn't give me a reason to be interested in this world. I hope he goes back to his old self in his next novel.	2003-03-17
US	51170712	R1BDCQD8PKRR5V	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I need water and a pain killer..	If you ever wondered what it was like to be out of control at 19, when your parents weren't around or couldn't care less and have a gold credit card in your pocket in that summer when your high school ties are still strong and your college life hasn't taken over. We catch Clay and his friends at the tail end of the excitement, in fact we catch it at its very bottom. Julian is in the pit, coke addled, debt to his dealer, he has gone as low as you can and he is so messed up, he brings his friend along. Clay's other friends in that apartment has taken debauchery, nastiness, and just plain evil to another plane, and the girl are on drugs and clueless. So just meet me at the beach, the caf?and the bar for some drinks and we go to the club tonight. But the book is more like the hangover. In fact, it is the hangover, the whole 100 and something pages of it. We get dragged all over LA in a fit of depression. It's all stupid, it's all boring, and I don't want to be there anymore but if you are interested it's how it is. It's the after-low of the after party. Although the events are riveting at moments, for the most part, I felt like, I turned up and everybody was going home. But read it anyway, if you are curious, about the downside of a cokeup 80s Beverly hills high culture. the dark cousin of &quot;Clueless&quot; or &quot;90210&quot; just don't expect to have a good time. You will be shocked and repulsed. (If you want a party, go read \\"Trainspotting?It's low but they were still enjoying it all in their own strange way). Don'y take it to the beach. It's not a summer book. Read it in bed while drinking water on a Sunday when you over did it the night before. The characters will be good company to you.	2001-08-29
US	51170712	R260PJ583QDQMV	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I need water and a pain killer..	If you ever wondered what it was like to be out of control at 19, when your parents weren&#8217;t around or couldn&#8217;t care less and have a gold credit card in your pocket in that summer when your high school ties are still strong and your college life hasn&#8217;t taken over. We catch Clay and his friends at the tail end of the excitement, in fact we catch it at its very bottom. Julian is in the pit, ... addled, debt to his dealer, he has gone as low as you can and he is so messed up, he brings his friend along. Clay&#8217;s other friends in that apartment has taken debauchery, nastiness, and just plain evil to another plane, and the girl are on drugs and clueless. So just meet me at the beach, the caf?and the bar for some drinks and we go to the club tonight. But the book is more like the hangover. In fact, it is the hangover, the whole 100 and something pages of it. We get dragged all over LA in a fit of depression. It&#8217;s all stupid, it&#8217;s all boring, and I don&#8217;t want to be there anymore but if you are interested it&#8217;s how it is. It&#8217;s the after-low of the after party. Although the events are riveting at moments, for the most part, I felt like, I turned up and everybody was going home. But read it anyway, if you are curious, about the downside of a ... 80s Beverly hills high culture. the dark cousin of \\"Clueless\\" or \\"90210\\" just don&#8217;t expect to have a good time. You will be shocked and repulsed. (If you want a party, go read &#8220;Trainspotting?It&#8217;s low but they were still enjoying it all in their own strange way). Don'y take it to the beach. It&#8217;s not a summer book. Read it in bed while drinking water on a Sunday when you over did it the night before. The characters will be good company to you.	2001-08-29
US	51170712	R1EGB20HT3VBZ9	0903505355	219737402	The House Plant Expert	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Incredibly useful	I was recommended this by a horticulturalist friend and have found it a joy to have. Not only is it stacked with tips on care, lighting, growth rate, and a very useful section on ¡§pest and diseases.¡¨ It has drawings of nearly all houseplants on the market today (I live in Hong Kong, and some of the odd tropical plants were included). I was able to find out the scientific names and the popular name of some of my favorite plants and used that to look up further information on the web.<br />It¡¦s a great reference book, and subsequently my plants have become a lot healthier. However, because I live in a sub-tropical area, my plants grow at a faster rate then stated in the book, so use this book as a reference depending on where you live. Still an over all useful book, and fun to peruse on a sunny afternoon. Highly recommended.	2001-08-27
US	51170712	R14ISQQ2QDX9JR	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A must for art lovers.	Having never been particularly understood the significance of Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s &iexcl;§David,&iexcl;¨ I went to Academy in Florence, Italy. And there it stood in front of me in all its glory. Standing underneath him, I was awed. Humbled by its beauty, its perfection, and I felt this urge to&iexcl;§touch&iexcl;¨ his flesh. Yet, in my mind I realized it was &iexcl;§only&iexcl;¨ stone. Irving Welsh&iexcl;¦s novel gives you the scope, the span, and the historical context of the creation of Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s work. The story behind one man&iexcl;¦s devotion to the art in a time of political turmoil, warring states, insurrections by fanatical monks, and power struggles within and outside the Vatican. From this book, not only do you learn about Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s work and his inspiration, but also, how art was perceived and created at the time in the Renaissance. The personalities involved; Da Vinci, Raphael, and the feuds and forgiveness that went on between them. You will also by default learn about the history and geography of Italy and why, such a small city state of Florence could give the world such a disproportionate number of Great artists and thinkers. This book is a work on its own. As part of the research for this book, Irving Stone commissioned a professor in University of California, Los Angeles, to translate Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s letters into English, with which he based the novel. The content of some of these letters are thus published in the English language for the first time. It&iexcl;¦s magnificent that as a companion to this great novel, we can now have a chance as readers of English to read Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s own words. Thank you, Mr. Stone. Furthermore, in the back of the novel is the complete listing of where Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s work is situated today and was extremely useful as I was able to appreciate some of his lesser known works. Truly this is a brilliant historical and biographical novel and a great resource about the country and her art of the time. The only thing I thought would have improved it, was Michaelangelo himself, his character, is belief did not change much through the years, and I would have liked to seem more &quot;character development.&quot; The man cannot be the same from the day he was 9 til his death. But one small word of caution, Michelangelo&iexcl;¦s life is full of -in every sense of the words- &iexcl;§agony and ecstasy&iexcl;¨ with a leaning towards the &quot;agony&quot;. It is a heavy going book, as beautiful as it is.himself, his character, is belief did not change much through the years, and I would have liked to seem more &quot;character development.&quot; The man cannot be the same from the day he was 9 til his death. But one small word of caution, Michelangelos life is full of -in every sense of the words- agony and ecstasy with a leaning towards the &quot;agony&quot;. It is a heavy going book, as beautiful as it is.	2001-08-27
US	51170712	R3MMWN9L13S1FZ	0743227093	15813420	Madonna: An Intimate Biography	Books	2	6	9	N	N	No matter what , you will buy it anyway. :) Just be warned.	I bought this book to prepare myself for the wonderful Madonna concert I was about to embark on. I figured, since it's the first time I will see her in concert, I would like to revisit some of my earlier memories of my childhood idol. Well I did, word for word, article by article and from Christopher Anderson's &quot;Madonna.&quot; I wonder if the author of this book bothered with researching the earlier part of her life. I understand that if anyone was going to talk about her early days they would have done so by now and little more could be gleaned. But what was more difficult to take was the authors often glib, rude and worse kind of... uncomfortably hmmm... how do I describe it, aging dirty old man judgmental comments on her earlier life. Randy (couldn't even think of a better name) seemed to be obsessed with the EXACT number of Madonna's abortions, and descriptions of how she was in bed. (The first is just gross, the second I guess is understandable.) However what was unforgivable was his pat comment about &quot;In every domestic violent situation there are two sides of the story,&quot; throwaway, after his description on the abusive episode with Sean, where he tied Madonna up and tortured her for days until she broke free and ran to the Malibu police station, stricken, bruised and bleeding. Even a hardened LAPD officer was quoted, &quot;There was no doubt she was a woman who had been in serious trouble.&quot; Considering this story has never been widely disputed, if at all. It was just offensive Randy would come down with such an insensitive and grotesque comment about a terrible situation of a woman he professes to admire. After that he goes on to dissect her career, ergh, (you could tell he really couldnt give a toss about that part). It was written with a convoluted timeline, jumping back and forth four, five years at a time, contradicting what he said previously: one moment Truth or Dare was a wonderful piece and made a lot of money, Sex was revolutionary, then ten pages down, it was unprofitable slime and the beginning of the ruin of her career. Randy then spends one sentence on the break up of Madonna's long time friend and manager, saying pretty much, &quot;They stopped working together.&quot; and went on to discuss her sex life and what her date was wearing. Considering Madonna is one of the shrewdest business woman in the industry you would hope he would spend at least sometime dissecting her arguably most significant relationship that lasted over 15 years. FINALLY the later part of the book where Anderson's left off, her personal life begins some interesting tidbits. Such as information about her relationship with JFK Jr, were they really in love? Warren Beatty Vwas that diamond ring an engagement ring or not? Her relationship with Lourdes father Vshe paid him off to keep quiet but he is a decent man and probably didnt need to. And a tiny bit about her mothering. Then of course her and Guy's affair, bitchy comments from his ex, and preparations of their wedding and the wedding itself that Randy alludes to, were gotten from an interview with Mr. Ciccone. They way the book was written, the facts and relationships he so heavily discussed and what he missed out was, I think, Randy forgot -and it might even shock some of you- we have grown older. I realized this upon arrival of the concert, Madonna's fans are made up mostly of mid-20s to mid-40s women and gay men. She is no longer a young pop sensation. That is Britney Spears job, Madonna is more like a stately older woman in terms of a revolutionary musician of her time -a Debra Harry, a Bob Dylan, a Joan Baez, a Frank Sinatra. And we her fans have grown out of our teenybopper stage a long time ago and expect more from a biography and much more from a biographer. But, I know no matter what is said here, hard-core fans will buy this book. I probably would have regardless of negative reviews too (I just didnt keep it). After all we always want more of our fabulous-idolicous Madonna, good, bad or ugly.	2001-08-26
US	51170712	RMIC4AMQB5GXK	0395877431	161295356	Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Interesting Start.	Demonic People This book is part of the new anthropological topic: The study of maleness. Although part of the premise is based on evolutionary-biology, this book squarely places a foot in the cultural anthropology camp where the manifestation of violence has to do with the structure of society. This no doubt will get the hard line evolution biologists and the hard line cultural anthropologist in a collective huff. The first part of the book is a good overview of where humans fit into the evolution tree. For those who learnt about the great apes and our relation to them before genetics proved that chimps are more closely related to humans, than gorillas and chimpanzees. This section is a good way to catch up on the newest evolution theories. Mixed into this section is a comparison of the offensive warfare of humans and chimps. The second part of the book, takes us into the jungles of African and Indonesia, and discusses the different kinds of violence that manifest between Orangutans, Gorillas, and Chimps due to their social structure. For example: Orangutans practice rape, Gorillas practice infanticide, and Chimps on the most part practice battering, but a mixture of all three does prevail. Then the third part of the book, discusses the behavior of a recently discovered fifth species of great apes, the Bonobos. This species formerly believed to be chimpanzees, are the only peaceful society among the five great apes. T he authors posits that because of the sexual nature of these beasts and the practice of lesbian relationships between the females create a special bond and female centered power structure. Male violence is easily stamped out by female coalitions and thus violence is not a good reproductive strategy and through time has been weaned out of the bonobos society as well as genetic make up. From this, the thesis is human violence can be stamped out if females in our society gains more power and we as a society finds a different criteria outside of strong physical males as an ideal mate. Unfortunately, the authors then go onto a long spiel about humans relation to paradise in comparative literature. Which brings the book and its theories to its weakest point. I found it terrible disappointing that the authors would find a hardly read novel about a female centered society written in Victorian times to prop up their argument. However, with the 20 pages of oddball ranting aside. This book definitely is an interesting read on cultural implications of evolution and vice versa. And just a damn good read for those who are interested violence, in maleness, or primate behavior but find acedemic papers heavy going. Its definitely the first full length book on this topic and hopefully other better researched, better defined studies will come out of it. Its very much a manifesto of sorts, filled with funny and interesting anecdotes, such as orangutans practices oral sex, bonobos had to be taken out of zoos because of their promiscuity that upset grandparents, and less scientific than most academics would like.	2001-08-26
US	51170712	R35DILLR7L6CE2	0393315630	749481430	Marabou Stork Nightmares	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wow	I recently re-read this book, and the subtleties, the drive, and stories behind it blew me away more than the first time. The story follows Rob Strang, lying in a hospital bed in a coma, yet hearing the voices of those who visit. This triggers memories of his childhood, his youth and his secret so D e e p that even he does not remember them at first. Between them is a party of British Colonials, hunting down the Marabou Stork. He captures the reality of poor Scottish life of alcoholism, of drug use, and dysfunctional families with a tender bitterness yet he is able to transform his writing to the fantasy of colonial Africa, and the blood lust of those who ruled. In between chapters Welsh takes you on different journeys, to different parts of the world, so different that you can not understand how it all reconciles in the end, but it does. If I told you more of the story, I may ruin some of the magic and horror of this book. So I will have to restrain from talking about the bigger picture because part of the pleasure of this book is figuring it out youself. Let's just say, the first time I read it. I sat outside my room in a hostel, on a cold hard concrete floor, semi-wet from the humidity during torrential rains at 2-5am because I could bare to part with it. Irvine Welsh, for all his pop sensibilities, and the topics he chooses to write, is honestly one of the best writers of his generation. For all lustful literary blab aside, this story is a great read and you will come out of it, as if you were in a coma yourself.	2001-08-26
US	51170712	R1DMG8M7UU7Y96	158234146X	51612915	Sarah: A Novel	Books	5	5	11	N	N	So different it makes you weep	With contemporary fiction and bestseller lists chock-o-ful of &quot;My poor childhood&quot; books:Angela Ash's,&quot; &quot;The Child Called It.&quot; et all ad infinium. J. T Leroy is a breath of fresh air. Thank god. Our hero/heroine in this book tops the &quot;painful, horrible, abused&quot; childhood category by not only having a mother who is a prostitute but follows her footsteps into the land of &quot;lot lizards&quot; at the mere age of 13. He then runs away from the cloistered protection of his caring pimp and finds himself caught up in a far more sinister ring in an even more horrific town. Fueled by secrets of his identity over his confusion of how the body works, Sarah life just goes downhill from there. So what is the big deal about this book? Yes, the language is beautiful, the landscape foreign and the characters unforgettable due to their inherent strangeness and oblique lifestyles such as the Geisha like, Cheerleader like boys who are his teacher and savior. But the reason this book comes out of the smothering ashes of another tragic mother, is the fact it is written with HOPE. The story is slathered with deep southern magic of saints and artifacts, mixed in with Native American powers of redemption and curses. These people, and the hero/heroine herself are proud of their place in the wide chain. Sarah along with the others wants to be a lot lizard, and what we perceive as horrors is magical to him. Not for a moment does Sarah compare himself/herself to those of his/her suburban peers and mire in his fate because in this world they merely do not exist. We read this book on its own terms and our heroine/hero does as good as he can and we root for him at every turn.	2001-08-26
US	51170712	R1KAYBOA0SAEDF	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Accelerated counter culture	The beauty of A Scanner Darkly as with the few other PKD books I have read, is he the future worlds he creates is so deeply entrenched in the world he was writing in at the time. This is a story about a policeman posing as a drug addict in an attempt to find the source of the drug Substance-D (Death), a potent substance that would lead to the social collasp of a segment of the population if not most of it. As the reader follows the story, he or she will get watch the coroding effects of the drug on Bob and how it starts to affect who he is, yet at the same time find out about the conspiracy that is involved in the creating and trafficing of the drug. But the story itself is half the pleasure. The other part is the world PKD creates, the druggy counter culture, the social impact of D, and the all powerful police state that runs the world. It is part history, as in, for those of us who is interested in the 70's we can get a glimsp of the strange goings on at the time, in such vivid details. And part prediction come true. The effects of Substance D is horrifically close to those of Crack which devastated the inner cities. Mainly this book is shocking at how well PKD was able to conjecture what from what was happenning in the 70's to what was to become in the 80's and maybe how in retrospect how we do live today. However, outside of the social-cultural stuff that makes him more than just a good story teller, this is at the end a GREAT story. If you want to know about 70's counter culture. Or you like books on drugs, or a fan of Jeff Noon or you SF that has a compasionate and social commentry aspect to it or want to see how out world is deteorating and wonder what the future might be. Oh, whatever, if you are on this page, you should just go ahead and buy this book.	2001-08-26
US	51170712	RD7C9SDOPQ4AT	0446602744	275856268	The Rules: Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Ignore the marrage bit, learn how not to get hurt	As a feminist, as a young (mid-20s) educated Internet Professional, as a manager, I thought the idea of the rules, ridiculous. But one day while I was in a bookstore, this controversial book caught my eye. I picked it up to read because I was wondering what kind of rubbish desperate women in the world was buying into. To my horror and surprise, the rules spoke loudly and clearly to me about the mistakes I knew I was making and gave me some very serious pointers of behavior that I was searching the answer to!<br />So what is so special about this book? The premise that men chase women, and that we are looking for husbands can be ignored, and understandably offensive, but what the rules is, (although the authors probably don¡¦t even know this themselves) is a good reference in how to prevent yourself falling too fast and getting hurt because you have given out so much to a man that a) isn¡¦t interested in you, b) is not capable of loving you the right way, c) just a plain jerk. Too many times I have watched myself and my friends quickly shack up with a man who were the above if not all three, but have put so much effort and investment into the relationship that we were unable to let go! <br />How do you dump the jerk when you have already told him about how painful your grandmother¡¦s death was for you? He has already met all your friends and family, and they all know you are in love with him.. You just can¡¦t break up.. even if he was the wrong man. You stick with it trying to make it work. Then afterwards when you have more wounds than sensible, you break up realizing you have made a terrible mistake and sit in a darkened room, thinking of your own stupidity? Sounds familiar? <br />This book is helping prevent it from happening again. It doesn¡¦t tell me how to erase those wounds, but by not chasing after a man, by not telling him everything about yourself straight away, these rules allow a logically slow progression to getting to know someone to make surethat he is the right one before you jump into sex, jump into emotional involvement.<br />Although this is not the premise of the book, these are what the rules allow you to do. My girlfriends and I have talked about not letting it happen so quickly a million times as we bemoan another bad choice in man, but it¡¦s been a long hard battle of finding the ¡§right way¡¨ to do it. The rules does just that. <br />I have been practicing the rules as it did for two weeks now, and was amazed by how differently I approached not only dating, but friendship, and co-workers. Instead of jumping head way into what *I* wanted, I waited to see what intentions the other person had. I saw a lot of people who I previously thought we ¡§something¡¨ in a different light and backed off. I stood in a bar and didn¡¦t stare at anyone I thought was interesting, instead watched one guy walk over and stood next to me. I over heard a conversation he had with his friend and realized he was a jerk! Had I done what I usually do, which is approach him with some funny remark, I would have missed his snide remark to his friend about some other woman in the bar. <br />Read this book, do the rules, but don¡¦t take the socio-biological and desperate seeking husband rhetoric too seriously or at all.	2000-10-15
US	51170712	RKJLICZOLEDJH	0802135196	175817283	Valley of the Dolls	Books	5	1	2	N	N	effortless.. beautiful and fascinating	For some reason, I thought this book was about three rock chicks who formed a band and had lots of drugs and sex. It wasn't. It's about three women's purposeful, and not so purposeful climb for love and fame. It's not. It's so much better?<br />Although it is often held up as a book about debauchery and drug use of 50-60s New York and LA, compared to what we can read and watch today it is rather tame. What this book is about is three friends Anne -a young naïve girl with dreams of independence who fled to New York, seeking herself. Neely -an undereducated, semi-orphan with very little hope for her talent and how her friendship with Anne accidentally allowed her fame and success and the consequences of that and Jennifer  -a girl whose dreams and wants were deceptively simple, but how her beauty and her need for security were hindered her in many ways. All these every day dilemmas, hopes and dreams set in the glamorous time of Broadway, Studios and the advent of TV. <br />It is also a book with female antagonists living their lives, there women are fully fledge characters who are in and sometimes no so in control of their lives, unlike the paper thin portrayal in many other books on this subject. They are not groupies, they are living breathing human beings who search for love, fame and acceptance. It is the men who are supporting characters. These women are the center of their own and each other's universe. <br />You feel for them, you laugh with them, and you cry with them in ways chick flicks don't because the characters are presented with hard choices and they do what they do for THEMSELVES. It's surprising feminist without the rhetoric that feminist authors put into their books. It's a feminist novel because it is written in from the perspective of women and talk about issues of Lesbianism, money, success, love, aging, and even a short topic of breast cancer and how the disfigurement of a mastectomy affected one of the characters.  <br />The beauty of this bookis how these \\"issues?are incorporated as part of these women's lives and not taken out discussed, dissected, and hammered into a story because of an agenda. It was effortless in showing how these things affected one life, without the rhetoric, without the \\"moral?that feminist authors then to try and place into their work. <br />This is a piece of art with a pulp feel, perfect for easy reading, without the bad writing, the clich? and general rubbish you have to skip past when buying the general pulp novel. <br />The synopses? Well written, mixed with enough spice to keep you fascinated, and in the end leaving an indelible mark on your psyche and leaving no doubt on your mind that as much as these women are victims of a world, they are those who made the choices. Read...	2000-10-15
US	51170712	R1BC31T3Z0NKNZ	0786882212	232683594	Trainspotting: A Screenplay	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Must have f	Trainspotting the movie was full of great details and funny dialogue that has to be tasted and thought about which like good wine gets better with age. <br />The companion interview with Irvine Welsh is a real treat. The man  is articulate, funny, and has a lot to say. It is seldom one can get inside  the author and his feelings on a movie that is made.<br />There is also a  preface written by John Hodge himself that details his process of from  writing Shallow Grave and how that movie got made and then how the others  convinced him to make trainspotting although he was terrible reluctant.  That in itself was an amazing story.<br />I loved his note to the readers  about how he was sorry he didn't put our favourite bits of the book in the  movie and how he didn't get to put his own favorites bits himself. He also  comments about the liberty he took with the text, and explained some of  them. As an Irvine Welsh fan I felt placated and had a new respect for  Hodge. <br />As for the screen play itself. You can read about Sick Boy's  ideas about Sean Connery, personal thoughts of renton, his relationship  with Diane, in detail. Everything in the movie is amplified. A small detail  and a big scene takes the same importance on the page.<br />I love picking it  up and reading my favourite bits. As an avid Irvine Welsh fan I could  really take the time to see what John Hodge added to the film and apreciate  it. <br />Watching the movie again takes about two hours of your time, and  replaying your favorite bits is never the same. This screen play allow you  to do just that without much effort. It is short and easy to read, and hey  to be honest, I didn't hear what was said in the film because of the  accents. Here I can read exactly what was said. If you love the book and/or  the movie god this is a great companion to go with it.	2000-07-20
US	51170712	R2HNGGKZ3NXUFB	0451186427	679211620	Restraint	Books	3	2	2	N	N	All story and not writing.	The main character gets involved with an older man with a dark personal history and embarks on a sexual awakenning from fun to dark to strange until her she realises she has been conned and takes revenge. <br />Is a book  good if you cannot put it down because I couldn't with this one. However as  you read it, you cringe with the bad writing, and the simplistic language  and the steryotypical characters. You wonder if anyone who reads this who  has never lived in Los Angeles (which I have) would understand what she is  talking about because she uses street names and neighbourhoods as her only  description. <br />The sex was fun at first, but you wish she would stop  talking about the power, growth, learning, and oh.. how much she realises  she is changing and just get on with it. It was like having the same  conversation over and over in different bed rooms around the city. If only  the author used a thesauraus and didn't repeat the same words over and over  again.<br />When finally the story unfolds and you realise she hasn't grown,  hasn't changed and really she is being a silly woman and could not take  rejection and seeks revenge. You wonder, what she was on about in the  bedroom. <br />But the truth was.. the story line kept me flipping the pages..  I wanted to know what was the next step in the main character's grand plan  and what her dark dangerous stranger was going to make her do next. <br />The  author was a screen writer and the books reads like one. Not a lot of  development, a great story, interesting dialogue, but no descrition and  superfical scrappings of the character's thoughts and action. I think it  would have made a movie with Sharon Stone.<br />Read this if you need a story  to keep you company on a plane ride or a long stay at the hotel after a  long day at work. If you are looking for thought provoking, adult fiction  with great writing give this one a miss.	2000-07-20
US	51170712	R36TOEJX2GP193	0451186427	679211620	Restraint	Books	3	1	1	N	N	All story and not writing.	The main character gets involved with an older man with a dark personal history and embarks on a sexual awakenning from fun to dark to strange until her she realises she has been conned and takes revenge. <br />Is a book  good if you cannot put it down because I couldn't with this one. However as  you read it, you cringe with the bad writing, and the simplistic language  and the steryotypical characters. You wonder if anyone who reads this who  has never lived in Los Angeles (which I have) would understand what she is  talking about because she uses street names and neighbourhoods as her only  description. <br />The sex was fun at first, but you wish she would stop  talking about the power, growth, learning, and oh.. how much she realises  she is changing and just get on with it. It was like having the same  conversation over and over in different bed rooms around the city. If only  the author used a thesauraus and didn't repeat the same words over and over  again.<br />When finally the story unfolds and you realise she hasn't grown,  hasn't changed and really she is being a silly woman and could not take  rejection and seeks revenge. You wonder, what she was on about in the  bedroom. <br />But the truth was.. the story line kept me flipping the pages..  I wanted to know what was the next step in the main character's grand plan  and what her dark dangerous stranger was going to make her do next. <br />The  author was a screen writer and the books reads like one. Not a lot of  development, a great story, interesting dialogue, but no descrition and  superfical scrappings of the character's thoughts and action. I think it  would have made a movie with Sharon Stone.<br />Read this if you need a story  to keep you company on a plane ride or a long stay at the hotel after a  long day at work. If you are looking for thought provoking, adult fiction  with great writing give this one a miss.	2000-07-20
US	51170712	R2VTRKQVOQWP7S	0060984201	681579594	Becoming Light: Poems New and Selected	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Something to keep	Jong's poetry is smart, sassy and shocking. Historically her directness informed the poetry world of the previously unspoken subjects that was only hinted at with whispers and sweet metaphors, instead Jong shouted it out  stories of pain, love, secrets and periods for all to read.  <br />I have had  this collection for about five years now, and still on a rainly afternoon,  I will occasionnally pick it up and flip through it. Each time I do, I find  something new, something honest, and something funny. <br />Unlike Slvia Plath  and Anne Sexton, Jong is hunourous about the life and painful parts of  being a woman. Her poetry reminds us that each person has their own  secrets, but does not have to be ashamed and yes, you can laugh about it.  <br />I love the way she references people, facts, and things we can relate  to. In some ways, these poems are a series of essays about women, life, and  the time it was written because it is a collection, you can also feel and  see the changes of the times through it. <br />Sometimes Jong's work can seem  sloppy if broken down under scrutiny, yet the essence of the poem is alway  fresh and creative. <br />I highly recommend this collection.	2000-07-16
US	51170712	R33OG1HATV2BX0	0826317235	34777406	Wisdom Sits in Places: Landscape and Language Among the Western Apache	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Most enjoyable ethographic study.	Basso explores and explains how the land is an intergral part of the Native American Apache existence. How the Apache views geography very differently from our western ideas of maps because not only do places have  functions they also have morals. These morals comes of the situation that  happenned at the specific location. <br />It is a fascinating look at a part  of Anthropolgy that is seldom explored. Easy to read, with wonderful  personal stories of how the people interact with their land. Although the  concepts tackled maybe unfamiliar the way it is written makes is so simple  to understand.<br />Outside it being great book acedemically, the lessons and  morals in the book touches one's soul. You learn about life as you learn  about these people. Yet it never falls into the trap of new ageness. It  stands strongly as a study I must stress.<br />This is the most enjoyable  ethnograpy I have ever read for my BA. Unlike many other books, I kept this  one for myself to dip into on a rainly day. Which is a testment on how good  writing encourages learning. Should be on the reading list of every  anthrpology student, as well as people interested in Native American people  and alternative way of seeing the world.	2000-07-16
US	51170712	R2XDYDLY2UQ2CJ	0811208214	685160669	Women Poets of China (New Directions Paperbook, 528)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unashamed, direct, honest, on par with women poets today.	This collection was a huge surprise. Unlike the steryo type of what women in China was like, subservient to husbands they are forced to marry, with little thoughts and feelings for themselves. <br />These women poets starting  from 1644-1911, shout out thier love of thier partners, discuss drinking,  sex, lust, romance, infactutation and even loving other women.<br />The  metaphors are soft and light at the first reading, yet if you look deeper  you realise some of the subjects are far from the softness the poetry is  conveyed in.<br />A good histrical text on Chinese Women and a good read. As  the previous reviewer said, buy two and give one to a friend.	2000-07-16
US	51170712	R1FQM18IO4N9QS	1558611827	639277324	Mulberry and Peach: Two Women of China	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hidden Gem about China	If you are interested in Chinese History and the Immigration experience, women on the road or a study in Skitsophrenia this book is a must. <br />Set in China in the past and America in the 80's we stimultaneously live the  similarites and jutaposition between these worlds. As we follow Mulberry  and Peach's adventure and different attitudes towards a bid to stay in  America, through letters to immigration officers, to each other, and  recollections.<br />The character's conversation between themselves, the  letters they write and the adivce to each other, envy and disgust between  Mulberry and Peach makes fascinating reading. <br />Unfortunately this book is  not widely read and ignored. In many ways, this book is as powerful as any  other famous female author who writes about China and America and the stuff  inbetween, if not more. Simply because it is a far more complex look into  the subject. Unlike the usual recollections we get, this book is a study on  issues of maddness, home, past set in a fasinating place and time. It does  not try to educate readers on what it is like to be an immigrant or a woman  during WWII and beyond in China. It is a true novel.	2000-07-16
US	51170712	R12GX9UWGQJYS4	0140249249	521542621	Iced	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hubris.. a great book..	How do those bums become bums on the street? Who were they? Questions one asks oneself when driving down the street or being hasseled on the street by panhandlers. <br />The main character of the books is a crack addict. He  tells you about his life as a crack addict. Which is something most of us  who read probably don't know much about. <br />THEN he starts to tell you what  he used to do. You think. &quot;Hold On, is this the same story, the same  person? This young, hip, black man, ready for the world?&quot; Well it is.  Then you watch the way selfishness and ego starts to destroy potential,  then once that ego and self centerness takes over how quickly drugs takes  over. <br />It is a very beautiful piece of prose, about how a man can fall  and how far a man can fall. But without the usual moral majority tone  bashing into our skulls.<br />It blew me away, and showed me a different side  to the world. <br />My only thing i disliked was there was far too much  tragedy to befall one man. In many ways if less happenned and he still  became a drug addict the story would have rung truer. Still worth reading.	2000-07-14
US	51170712	R3UO1RKV69Y6A8	0060231483	618137289	If I love you, am I trapped forever?	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One of my teenage favorites!	(Spoiler Alert)<br />I loved this book as a teenager. I am so sad it is out of print. The reason this book was so special to because it showed me how painful the concept of popularity in school was, and the person who held it  could also lose it quickly. It was a good companion for the geeky reader I  was. The hero or the anti-hero of the book was a tall socially inept Jewish  boy, who through his writing, creativity and his newspaper seem to change  the way the school and people within perceived themselves. What a concept!  Through writing you can win. <br />But the in retrospect, the changes in Doom  when he became popular also is a moral in power and corruption, yet at the  same time, a call for the goodness in high school activities too. The boy  who never played basketball and was above all the high school social  things, falls in love, becomes a high school boy too. His intellectual  demeanor slowly fades as he is more accepted by his classmates. The book  questions, what is real within us versus the front we want to be perceived  by. <br />Of all of ME Kerr's books I read, I think this one was the best in  bring out the concept of how impermanent life in high school was, and no  matter how much you liked it or not, it would be over and your life will  start a new. <br />Anyway, all I can say is, this is another of ME Kerr's  great books about life, and the complexities of it in a high school  context, yet never allowing it to go too deep, dark and still celebrates  youthfulness. Buy it when it comes around again.	2000-07-14
US	51170712	RAR38YH5KPYYY	0140587233	765665835	Joker, Joker, Deuce	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Great Novelist but..	White boy shuffle is my favourite books of all time. I own three different editions of it. I spent a year having a crush on a boy just because he read and loved the book too, in fact this guy had a plan to write a letter to  Paul Beatty and keep it in his back pocket, just in case he met da man.  <br />But Paul's Poetry speaks very little to me. Partly because there are far  too many basketball references which I don't understand, not growing up in  the States, and when i read it to myself, I can't pick up the meter and the  rythm of the words. <br />I think it is good, but if you know nothing about  basketball, and don't really like rap, you, like me, will probably not get  what the author intended us to hear. If only there was a cassette version.	2000-07-14
US	51170712	R3E8A9NUD2IN1Q	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	4	1	3	N	N	First expierience into true crime	This was the first book I ever read in the true crime genre. After a few, I realised it was a good class act to start with. This book was not a guide book for future serial killers like so many newer ones are, and has respect  for the victims and family. This book sets out to find out who the Zodiac  killer is, and after his death, it was revealed the person GraySmith  pointed his finger at was indeed the killer. I don't know if it has been  updated in the book since then, my version was older. I loved the detective  work that went with the story.	2000-07-14
US	51170712	R24TRWLMX5NR9I	0006377157	60606024	A Trip to the Light Fantastic: Travels With a Mexican Circus	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Grand grand circuses	This book follows an English woman and her husband's year with a Mexican Circus. She talks about the people, the places, and the tragedies with such great love and fondness. It is a great read, and although I felt it was not  always well written and prone to the side of sentimentality that  occasionally distracts what is of interest to a reader. I also wished she  paid more attention to the minor characters in the book, because each and  every one of them seemed to have a story to tell, in fact those minor  stories seemed to have more changes, tragedies and secrets to reveal.  Instead Hickman concentrated on the powerful, the stars, and the family  behind the circus. <br />Criticisms aside it was a wonderful travelogue and  fulfilled a lot of my childhood fantasy of running away with the circus.  The characters in the book are real, with their flaws and their good sides  exposed. The details of how the circus is put together, the hopes and  dreams of the people, the feeling of performance are all encompassed. The  book does give you a sense of the great dramas, loves, and loyalties that  involve a moving, roaming group of people. I know I used a lot of grand  words to describe the book, but it is because circuses are a grand  endeavor.	2000-07-14
US	51170712	R19E1LU1GSF9NN	0679742115	826671409	Vox	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Sexy and funny	Truthful, smart and unoffencive. It is hard to find a erotic novel where the woman doesn't submit in some ways of herself to gain pleasure. Here is two adults, mature, honest, and fully enjoying thier erotic secrets and  pleasures. Some of it is a little odd, but who doesn't have an odd fantasy  thrown in here and there. Also what a great celebration of female  masterbation. More men should be like this!	2000-06-17
US	51170712	R2AYBDTLPA5IEH	0679742115	826671409	Vox	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Sexy and funny	Truthful, smart and unoffencive. It is hard to find a erotic novel where the woman doesn't submit in some ways of herself to gain pleasure. Here is two adults, mature, honest, and fully enjoying thier erotic secrets and  pleasures. Some of it is a little odd, but who doesn't have an odd fantasy  thrown in here and there. Also what a great celebration of female  masterbation. More men should be like this!	2000-06-17
US	51170712	RFCHY2TW5WOB7	0889104689	937861332	In the House of Slaves	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Same same and more of the same	Most people have disturbing sexual experiences some times in thier lifes and yes, Everlyn Lau's were worse than most. Men do treat women with disrespect and being the other woman is no fun. Although, I agree with all  those premises, and agree that these topics should be explored in poetry, I  cannot condone talking about it over and over and over again in the same  collection. <br />If everlyn condenced some of these poems with similar ideas  into longer ones, and stopped revisiting the same topics throughout the  whole book, I think she could be a good poet. For this collection, she is  an immature writer, lacking in experience, and different perspective. Apart  from the henious experience she lived through on the streets, that somehow  must have -in the Canadian Literary scene- gained her sympathy points, I  cannot understand why she is hailed as such a celebrated writer. Decent:  yes, great: no.	2000-02-04
US	51170712	R1SOR85JDD7779	0671000381	735096105	Courtney Love: The Queen of Noise	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Most gossip and distortion	11am one morning long ago I sat on a couch with this book and didn't stop until I was on the last page. As I closed the cover, I launched the paperback (says something when it comes out in paperback only) across the room. It was a definate mixture of too much CL energy and an anger that I  wasted this much time on a Saturday. <br />Obviously this book has its  attraction, (which was the idea you were learning about one of the most  enigmatic women of the last decade) that kept me reading it.  But this  impulse has little to do with Melissa Rossi and her writing, and the ex  boyfriend from hell imformant. Of all the people in the world to attain  accurate information on anybody; spurned, jealous, and loser exes are  probably not a very reliable sources. <br />The book oscillated from adoration  of CL ; as if we were privy to a telephone conversation of the author  trying to weedle her way back into being in contact with CL, an apologetic  phone call to an angry friend, to angry recriminations from a friend  ignored. There were moments which underneath the accusations of CL giving  Kurt heroin and generally treating people in an disrespectful way that  screamed &quot;how dare you chuck me as a friend, and since you did, I will  tell the world all your secrets, and if some of them weren't true, I will  propogate it anyway, because hey, that is what I heard.&quot; Not pleasant  to be part of such drama.<br />I have to admit the bits about CL's childhood  and teenage years seemed quite objective, and sympathetic, from what I  could gather was written when Rossi was still friends with CL. The rest of  the book falls short.<br />I would suggest you borrow it from the library,  because it is not worth the $ and you won't want to keep it. However, if  you are a CL fan, I guess it is worth dipping into.<br />And last but not  least Chiang Kai Shek Airport is definately not in Hong Kong. The airport  in HK  at the time was called Kai Tak.	2000-02-04
