US	51171190	R3VKJ51B34W92V	0740727109	721537849	Open Your Mind, Open Your Life: A Book of Eastern Wisdom (Large Second Volume)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautifully illustrated, and written	This collection of words includes not only great quotes from good men but a whole collection of pictures behind to draw you into your meditation.<br />At the same time, I would encourage those who have participated in other religions to look into this book. It puzzles me why Catholics and Christians must keep attacking Buddhism and eastern religious. Indeed they fear even body positions not deemed &quot;worthy of God.&quot;<br />In this slim volume, Taro Gold has packed full information into a window into the soul. You won't be missing anything. At the same time, I have read most of the quotes you have been listening to for many years, and find them very puzzling and bizarre. They do not seem to mimic the exact translations of Buddhist wisdom or thought, but rather the English translations of them, beautiful, yet profound.<br />Perhaps that's what I like about Buddhism, and eastern religion. Though some of his quotes may be misinterpreted, they are not without character, or mind. The Tao has been treated to one hell of a lot of interpretation here, totally changing the words Lao Tzu said in some cases. But otherwise, it seems to be a perfect translation of the mind of Lao Tzu, and that's good enough to keep you thinking.	2004-06-07
US	51171190	R3NGZDMFDCYEJ6	0871568659	810065600	The Case Against the Global Economy: And for a Turn toward the Local	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rational arguments against the global economy	It's a shame a book like this is needed at all. We should have thought about this before we implemented our global economic system. Caught in an ever smaller web, countries are forced to compete for scarce resources, which are not the products of countries, but corporations. National sovereignties are destroyed. The environment is affected, since our economy judges our &quot;goods&quot; for value, rather than taking into account the environmental or emotional worth of something. Things become commodities and are prepackaged and sold back to us. For what? The question is something we should have asked before we allowed things to get this far.	2004-06-04
US	51171190	RNXMP5R75GUSQ	1852303158	885448890	A Little Book on the Human Shadow (Little Books)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Maturity	This is a great book by Robert Bly. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in living a more mature, peaceful, and accepting life.	2004-02-26
US	51171190	R2JY7XR4NOGU6F	0922233233	662869326	Junk English	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A humbling imperative	Ken Smith has written an equally dazzling and puzzling book that will leave you wondering what words you might have overused... In this little book, he compiles a list of the many words that have been abused by arrogance, misunderstanding, and sheer nonsense. Nothing rings true about these words but their dictionary definitions. They may puzzle, and excite, but their silence rings true as empty bells.	2003-12-15
US	51171190	R1W1Q1025WJX4W	0440932211	668017084	Greek Gods and Heroes (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Decent, fun, and entertaining	This is not a book for learning Greek myths so much as it is for having fun reading a myth-book. He leaves some details out and uses lots of modern-day metaphors to describe how the Greek Gods lived.	2003-12-07
US	51171190	R141V8WS23D9P6	0440406943	77921689	D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Beautiful illustrations...	But the text is lacking. I found it dry and facile at times. There were few explanations for why the gods would hate each other so much, other than the idea that they had to control the earth or the land in some way. This sets the basis for hierarchical systems of thought found in modern-day Greek society, long before the domination of the female gender took full force (around that time there was still a fair amount of female influence, archeological sources tell us) and ideates that we all need to look forward to future wars as a way of life.<br />This is a nice, large volume, though. You'll like the drawings.	2003-12-07
US	51171190	RB6ZC89O2U6ZU	0385290098	295502222	Teaching As a Subversive Activity	Books	3	12	107	N	N	It's way too difficult to understand	He says there is a need for better education, and I have no doubt in my mind that there must be a good reason for teachers to reform schools, or else, this could not still be relevant today.<br />But, there must also be a new way of perceiving things. I guess he needed to quantify an understanding of how things must be ingratiated into a person's life so as to be relative to their causal needs--<br />But let's stop for a second. Isn't this getting a bit too complicated for the purposes of a school with very little to teach but what's gone on in the teacher's mind the previous night?<br />I myself went to school, and had to drop out. There was no need for me to go back anyway. Many times I wanted to go deep--really deep--into something that astounded me, but time ran out. I was often left irritated with a void that had faded into the outer world, including everything that may have been there to begin with.<br />Several weeks passed after I fell out of the old high school system. I wandered into alternative schools and ended up hiring a tutor, taking several tests (forgiving myself kindly that there was no measured place for me to go), and finding not very many locations to go to in order to find someone beyond myself with a keen eye for knowledge--basically, a good teacher.<br />I really needed somebody who was different until I found out one day who it was I was looking for: myself! I found in myself the needs and the wants, the desires to strive to achieve beyond myself and through myself, through life itself, and seeing the art of it all.<br />So in the end, what does education really want? I for one think that we should have less intervention, in whatever way possible. Because there is that part of us still believes we know more about the world than we ever will. But is this part of us wrong? Ultimately, there are many ways to break free from the surface of our thoughts. By giving up our ideas of ourselves, and understanding reflexively our lives, our changing shades, we can come to a conclusion that's definite that the world and the school of our lives are interconnected, as all the reasons for learning come back to us, and always as one.	2003-11-21
US	51171190	R1U904KYSG6VQ8	0871565099	6316244	In the Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of Technology and the Survival of the Indian Nations	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A beautifully written book, exposes the truth	I would never have found myself reading an indian book when I was in school. Back then, all we had were grades. Even now, I find myself giving a grade to the article I just read, In the Absence of the Sacred.<br />But after I realize I am grading it, I also realize the real premise of how we view the world. As a set of statistics and numbers. Isn't it true, today, that all we do when we rate other countries in accordance to us, is see whether they have economies and buildings and airplanes and factories? Then we grade how well they output their economies, how much influence they have. Even art is part of this influence, and the human, in whatever form it was in, is lost. How sad.<br />Soon countries, together in this vast machine world, become nothing but amalgamations of future and past prophecies of cultural and societal development, all leading forward. Or upward. But what of the societies that have not embraced this trend? The ones that don't show up on the map?<br />Jerry Mander's has written about these peoples, and their names are not used in vain. He gives them a fair voice, showing how their annihilation in map is not the same as character or spirit. I believe we have come to the brink of an edge in time, when we can finally see through the cracks in the infrastructure of this matrix, one that we continue to be trapped in, because of our lack of understanding of the power of the imagination. Though they are just words, I often wonder, how many people could resist feeling sorry for loved ones that died in a faraway country? Or the feeling of being broken, lost, and adrift? Don't all human beings feel these feelings?	2003-11-06
US	51171190	R10BE8VUZ4JGF1	0345386574	894418508	A Woman's Worth	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A beautiful treatise on woman	The heart of a woman lies, according to Marianne, in the secret interior of the heart. She talks a lot about the body and mind, and how they come together to form the feelings we have had about each other, and as human beings, to our sexual spirits and ideals.<br />Her diverse iconography of language in this wonderfully written book divests to us the true beauty of a woman. Naked, powerful, unfathomable. With her distinct breath, a woman reveals her instinct as a Goddess and as a spiritual animal, capable of both honoring the goddess and loving her sensibility.<br />The religion she refers to (in the book as in A Return to Love) is a mainly Judeo-Christian one, one also bound to be a fatigue to most readers interested in the spirit. I say this with clarity, because I came from the religion she talks about, and it is a very sad religion, because it takes away women's power over their bodies, and ultimately, truth. I think she uses words like God and King and Heaven to illustrate her point of view, and not name any one point or place or whatever. It's her choice of words that may throw some people off, but in the end, you will see an immaculate dialogue forming between the characters in her mythical tale and her worldview of the reality of how little woman's bodily nature has been revered, and how decimated she has become, because of this.<br />I hope you will read this book! It's a wonderful work about women who are searching for answers on how to live fully, openly gracious, and more considerate of those around them. If you like this please buy her other treatise on love, \\"A Return to Love\\".	2003-11-05
US	51171190	R275N6IEI33SZ0	0553351370	986694689	Fire in the Belly: On Being a Man	Books	5	56	66	N	N	Well written, profoundly deep, missing nothing	What tells us we are men? Is it how we look on the outside? Is it the way we behave? Unfortunately, if you are looking for these questions, you might as well go away now, for this book is not meant to be read by ideologues who think they need an idea to know.<br />We have all tread the mass of upgrades to our lives called \\"women,\\" hopping from one to the next without fulfillment. Some of us have also played the nice guy/poindexter role into night and day until our wallets broke and then we were left without anything. We have tried to be male in so many different ways, but there is one that outshines them all. It is the one that lies above the grave of impossibility.<br />In his excellent and thorough essay, Keen urges us at the end of the first chapter not to skirt through the book but to read carefully each passage. We've been stranded for too long on a desolate island, asking for attention. Our hearts and minds have been callously stupefied by our advances, and by our society and time, which have been of no help to us at all. Being manly doesn't mean we necessarily have to exaggerate our strength in order to *look* like a man. Instead, the prayer is that we might express something greater within ourselves and not be afraid of how manly we look to others.<br />One of the first things we must do, Sam says, is to challenge our misconceptions about WOMAN. This is \\"WOMAN\\" with all caps. She's the undying witch who comes to scare us, night after night, after we have fallen asleep. The little boy who fears the witch is still there has not left us, for we have not gotten over our very private concerns about who She is.<br />The quintessential journey into the heart, for a man, starts at the place where he begins to accept the uncertainty of his maleness. Beyond this, he has always an abundance of tools and source material to solve his ordinary problems in everyday ways, and if he can play up to the mastery of this experience he will eventually become a man. In chapter ten, Keen writes about this, telling us a quote by Martin Luther: \\"Our good is hidden, and so profoundly that it is hidden under its opposite. Thus our life is under death, love of ourselves under hate of ourselves, glory under ignominy, salvation under perdition, justice under sin, strength under infirmity, and universally every one of our affirmations under its negation.\\"<br />Indeed, our strength does come from its opposite.<br />If we are to escape past the predicaments that have held us in and reveal the secret knots that we have tied, not only for ourselves, but for our love of the world, then we must undertake the questor's journey into the root of the darkness. Are we men or are we not? Read on...	2003-10-21
US	51171190	R1QINW3GPA9KZJ	1573222216	12125303	No Death, No Fear: Comforting Wisdom for Life	Books	5	104	108	N	N	Excellent book from the Zen teacher	People have a hard time understanding why I love and respect a monk so much. But his writings are so clear, so pure and simple, uncluttered, that they make sense just to pick up and read like a regular book. The only difference between his books and a good story_book is that his books are about your Life and they require Practice. All of which requires joy too!<br />This wonderful teacher talks to us in this book about emptiness, a wonderful concept we are all learning in our own time. In it, he clearly states examples of emptiness or impermanence in ways that are directly the result of his own experience and observation. One gets the sense that he has shown us some truth about death and life, and how they interlink and come together in a ballet of pictures and words. He writes with true wisdom, and the only result is, indeed, comfort.<br />The spiritual life requires discipline. It requires a sense of purpose, and perhaps, motivation. But one thing I know is that it is not unbearable and uncomfortable as many would have you believe. Through his unique teachings, Thich Nhat Hanh shows us that there is no end and no beginning to things. If you are grieving the loss of a loved one, this book is as good as counseling.	2003-09-08
US	51171190	R2HL0CTXMLC644	0380719010	447904617	May All Be Fed: 'a Diet For A New World : Including Recipes By Jia Patton And Friends	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Loved the recipes	I loved the hints and tips for mainting a cupboard and kitchen, and the nice recipes that I have been using/modifying for my own use. The information in the beginning is nice, too, although mostly a reprint of Diet for a New America.<br />The updated sections on fish and milk were very interesting, however, especially fish, which is touted today as a wonder-food for older people hoping to live longer. Many fish today arrive at your supermarkets having previously been mold-contaminated from sitting out in the open too long, and many contain high concentrations of Mercury, which also has been documented in a recent Reader's Digest article.<br />Just like what Marianne Williamson said on the front cover of this book: &quot;I hope everyone reads this book!&quot;	2003-09-08
US	51171190	R2BENZ4ERJ0HM	0915811804	842174682	Reclaiming Our Health: Exploding the Medical Myth and Embracing the Source of True Healing	Books	5	12	12	N	N	I thoroughly recommend this book	I read this book first in sections, but then decided to read the whole thing as my interest progressed.<br />I already knew some of the persecution of the chiropractic industry by money-hungry conventional doctors, but some of the stuff totally shocked me. I've seen some of the statistics that chiropractors have come up with, extensive studies that show that it has extremely low health risks and helps a lot more with lower back pain than conventional \\"give me the pill\\" medicine. However, this book totally blew the cover off the...American Medical Association, an organization I once took for granted to be dedicated to my health and well-being.<br />If everyone in the waiting room of a doctor's clinic were to read this book, all health care in America would be for the better.<br />Furthermore, the interesting sections on women and fertility totally blew me away. I was furious at the stuff they were doing to hurt and control women who went to doctors for real health reasons, hoping to get better, only to be subjected to the standard system of running tests and being tied to one position. I myself was delivered by C-section, and having been abandoned by my mother, I can also attest to the ugly and disgusting nature of conventional birth documented so well by John Robbins. The persecution of midwives, who have near-flawless records for safe delivery of newborn babies was also shocking. I had no idea that women giving birth at home do better than in hospitals, in terms of mortality rates.<br />The final section is worth reading alone if you have cancer. It states very clearly using facts and actual experiences how deliberately and unfortunately the medical establishment has been \\"treating\\" people (if I may use that word) with cancer, without realizing that the only goal of a person with illness is wellness and wholeness, not merely to eradicate and destroy an organism that seems foreign and toxic. It also exposes the \\"fact\\" that there have been cancer treatments with possible cures, existing for decades, which have been blocked by the cancer establishment out of hope for conventional therapies, blind ignorance, or fear of malpractice suits (you can be sued for not using \\"technology\\" to treat an illness ... but what if you just want to get better?).<br />The beauty of John Robbins' words inspire me. It's hard not to be moved by good stories of good doctors helping to make things better. It's hard not to believe that things could also be better if we changed our current system. Always true to form, this book discusses ways in which to reform health care that would truly work, and at minimal cost.<br />If you're a nonbeliever of universal health care, low-cost medicine, or just out of luck with personal illness, I highly recommend this book.	2003-09-08
US	51171190	R187GX969C66N	0688082742	448089741	Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Fascinating	People will either react violently to this book, or they will acknowledge its truth. They will react violently because it bespeaks a whole new language of wisdom, how we view ourselves, and the world. They will acknowledge and embrace its truth because they know in their cores that something about this book is worth considering.<br />All of the time we spend in front of the television, Mander says, is mediated by so many factors outside of our inherent awareness (the here, now) that we have little choice but to use it as our only source of information. That alone warrants the abandonment of television as an unbiased information source.<br />Mander argues extensively, and conclusively, about how we are closing our minds by watching television. It is very compelling for someone who has been wondering for a while what could have made people lose trust in their own truth, and their ability to think for themselves. Could it be something in our environment, in the way we structure our lives? Could it be that the way that we are trained to think by mediums such as television is that &quot;we know all we need to know&quot;?<br />He does go off on other diatribes related to his &quot;argument&quot; for cessation of television. They are very well delivered, however, and warrant a serious read. His writing style makes you think for yourself, and the introduction chapter dedicates itself to explaining to you how he wrote the book and what his purpose was by having you read it.	2003-09-08
US	51171190	R32YP1TYXGYCWN	0252070488	926283142	The HOUSE OF SONG: POEMS (Illinois Poetry Series)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Master lyricist	I liked the lyrical nature of the poems he wrote, but some were a little lacking. For me, a good poem has to have substance, but I missed some of that in this poetry selection. Perhaps I'm not looking deeply enough, but the best poems by David have always been his nature poems, and I felt this didn't have enough of those to form a complete collection.<br />Sometimes his poems have compelling rhetoric that make you think deeply, and his style is at its peak. Other times I feel there is no connection between his words and their actual meaning, just experiences he happened to write down.<br />Lyricism, as usual, is great, top-notch, and needs no refining. Wonderfully written if you are a Wagoner fan, but if you can, try to get his latest book of collected poems, Traveling Light. That's my favorite poetry book right now. :)	2003-09-08
US	51171190	R9B3CM42AEFMB	1573921661	279884929	Slaughterhouse: The Shocking Story of Greed, Neglect, and Inhumane Treatment Inside the U.S. Meat Industry	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Hard to ignore	I've read this book from front to back, and although it took me several weeks (the gruesome pictures I had in my mind were hard to swallow) I'm glad I did. Now I'm less ignorant about what goes on, now I can help support the cause to relieve animal suffering in this world. I hope you read this as well and see for yourself what Gail Eisnitz has, through her clever reporting and careful documentation, been telling us all along.	2003-07-29
US	51171190	R15L4A844NXP11	0938077503	110647671	Learning True Love: How I Learned and Practiced Social Change in Vietnam	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Wonderful!	I totally disagree with the &quot;library journal&quot; review. Not only was this book inspiring, heartwarming, and unique, it told a tale of a woman who defied so many odds by transforming her suffering into the desire to help others move forward into peace. I have read many books by Buddhist scholars before, but none as simple and biographical as this. It was heartbreaking at times; hearing about killings, learning about lost loved ones, learning true love, all of this is conveyed in such a way that you feel you're actually there.<br />There is no broken English in this book, I don't know what the review is talking about. There's only one typo that I found in the entire book, and it was typing error, not a grammatical one. This book should be on your priority list: if you give it a try, you'll find that you want to keep it in your collection forever. It's a priceless concentration of thoughts that move and inspire you, both to touch suffering and not to despair when faced with challenges.	2003-07-10
US	51171190	R1AGQC04RQ0PJE	0915811812	381791390	Diet for a New America	Books	5	12	15	N	N	It doesn't matter who you are	What I'm trying to say is that if you care at all for yourself, you will read this book now.<br />You're not obligated to believe in anything it says, although the footnotes on p.388-423 might convince you otherwise.<br />You're not required to believe anything the author says, unless you care about your health.<br />If you don't want to die of heart attack, stroke, get cancer, or any other disease I suggest you read this book. The whole world suggests you read this book.<br />Even if you read only 10% of the pages in this book, you will be affected.<br />If you care about truth in any way, shape, or form, then you should read this book.<br />If you care about your life and the lives of those around you, and don't want your loved ones to die of heart attacks or strokes, then I suggest you read this book.<br />If you are interested in learning more about why birth defects occur, then maybe you should read this book. Then again, you might not care. (But still, some people do.)	2003-07-05
US	51171190	R3O8VV4H6G76A3	0914061631	630243180	Seven Horizons	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful poetry book	Stepanchev's themes range from life & death to the unknown, to the fossilized, to the concretized, to the imagined, to the explained. He is a very diverse poet who doesn't contain himself. Thus, each and every one of his poems is unique in some way.<br />Of particular interest to me was his two poems, successively, \\"A Wound That Never Heals\\" and \\"Carolus Linnaeus\\". These two poems are bridged by a final poem which reflects the book's title, \\"Seven Horizons.\\" In each of these poems he talks about deep psychological truths about holding and letting go. I felt very connected to the messages he portrayed with his convincing writing and very fluid repose of pictures. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this masterpiece.<br />Some of his poems were even enough to make me laugh. Each one made me say \\"aha!\\" in some way. It was just what poetry was meant to do, I believe. Not too heavy, not too light either. Just right for reading before you go to sleep.	2003-07-05
US	51171190	R3RB9P6ZWV8ZU3	0819511641	866589632	Dien Cai Dau (Wesleyan Poetry Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Never held a gun in my life	This is powerful poetry, so much that when I read it I feel like I'm there, watching him and the surroundings that he witnessed in his mind so well.<br />Some of his metaphors are almost magical in their quality, their effusiveness, and ability to draw you in. It's also helped by the fact that very few poets write about war like this. Sure, there've been the I Rhyme, You Die poets from the civil war or other periods of history, but nothing like this.<br />He talks about the soldier's main preoccupation: women, home, warm smiles, grenades, RPG's, and dying--of course. All the while you know that there's this inherent sadness he can't talk about while he's a soldier. That's what makes these poems run so deep. I especially liked the poem \\"Thanks\\". It was heartbreaking for me.<br />It's beautiful reading about these scars, sad as they may be. Being a Soldier is a tough man's job, and hopefully people will read this book of poems and realize that.	2003-07-01
US	51171190	R3UB770PBXA2MC	155659139X	406410152	The First Four Books of Poems	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Hard to read for the uninitiated	This is very hard to get into unless you're familiar with Merwin's more contemporary works.<br />In this volume of his first four poetry books, he explores themes familiar to us all: love, animals, folk tales, themes in nature, rivers, and death.<br />His poems are almost all uniquely consistent with the same voice; there is none of the rising up and swelling of other poets, no rhythm to speak of, and one gets the hint that Merwin should've been writing without punctuation at all from the very beginning. He startles you on occassion with his unique insights (White Goat, White Rain) and his great sense of being there in the moment.<br />I think if you like his contemporary poems, then you should try to read this. They're kinda hard to get into. But otherwise a great showing from a great master.	2003-07-01
US	51171190	R3JRP7170L9W5	0375709649	149173403	The Pupil: Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Merwin yet	Hopefully not to surpass his credentials, I must comment on how wonderful this poetry is. I love it. I keep these poems on the back of my mind at all times just to remember them and how I felt reading them. Merwin is so exceptionally good at copying the moment into our lives through himself, using the poetry of the spirit to communicate something beautiful deep inside of us all.	2003-06-20
US	51171190	R1X52J9E6DOP5S	1573247022	265087398	The Food Revolution: How Your Diet Can Help Save Your Life and Our World	Books	5	10	11	N	N	I can't see how anyone can not be influenced by this book	This is ironic given the title of my review, but if you keep an open-mind you'll be eye-shocked by the things you'll see. It's amazing what this is doing to our environment, and our ecosystem all the way down to the little cells in our bodies--everything is affected by the way you eat. Your health can be determined entirely by little things that you may not notice. For example, the way that slaughterhouse animals are treated may cause you to eat things that are inhumane. You may also be affected by scientific facts that are startling: Soybeans that are genetically engineered actually inhibit protein generated by the soybeans themselves! You have to read this book if you care about the truth about the way that we live in and look at our world.	2003-06-04
US	51171190	R17SYYX29LS710	0887481310	429301017	The Astonished Hours (Carnegie Mellon Poetry Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Poetry about raising kids	This book of poetry is composed of four sections, almost all of them having to do with raising kids, or family life, or the relationship between mothers and fathers to sons and daughters. It's very interesting; not being a father yet I don't know what he's talking about most of the time, but I do appreciate some of his poems, such as &quot;Texas Skyline,&quot; and &quot;An Epiphany.&quot; Several times I had to look up new words though, which kind of distracted me from the message, but I ended up learning a lot of new words in the process.<br />Of course one of the highlights of this poem is just to be touched by the sounds of a man who truly a father, who is engaged with his kids, and see what insights he has to reveal to us who are either with him in his quest to understand happy family life or still learning.	2003-05-30
US	51171190	R29XBMJE0V4BR1	0425166791	661794888	Undoing Depression: What Therapy Doesn't Teach You and Medication Can't Give You	Books	5	48	50	N	N	depressed teenager	I'm a depressed teen who went through all of the major depression and now have chronic depression, mostly. My life went to shambles because of my depression, and I mostly kept all of my bad habits from that old depression, namely that I thought feeling 'bad' was a normal feeling ('feeling bad' is not feeling sadness, sorrow, or normal worry but feeling sour and feelingless all the time).<br />I think he kept the whole thing pretty real throughout the whole book, encouraging us to see where our lives basically fall apart at random events (mine was neglect and abuse) and how basically everyone runs into problems, and that most depressives just get really unlucky. But having gone through it himself and knowing where it comes from, he seems to have mastered a lot of the things, and just from that I give him an A for confidence to come out and say all of this stuff. I think anyone could benefit from the book, but for most depressives who are in major depression, don't you dare touch this. It's an amazing resource for the post-depressed who struggle with depressive habits, but it's a terrible tragedy for people who are depressed. It will probably only make them worse as they continue to think about how 'good' they'd feel recovering. For them I just recommend lots of relaxation and therapy, and time to get over it.<br />Good luck to anyone who reads this book. (It's an easy read.) May your depression be swift to leave and/or may you gain whole understanding of the problems that depressed people have.	2003-05-30
US	51171190	R3UJ08Z8HJMKKP	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	5	15	24	N	N	Great references	Nice book for its host of theological references. He has a huge library of books in his bibliography and lots of bible verses next to what he says to back up his arguments. This makes it a wonderful book for stickies!<br />Some of his interrogative sentences can be confusing at times, but you just need to reread them one or two more times before you get it.<br />I don't think his books can rescue people from fundamentalism. My mom is a fundamentalist and I know that when I argued with her in the past and got her to a vulnerable point she started using subconscious psychological defenses, such as semantic literalism, bogus questions, absolute truths, and questioning the reality of the five senses. The Freudian analysis he talks about I've witnessed through my mom and others as being quite real.<br />If you are aware of the damage caused by theistic belief systems, then you know how much this matters. The challenge is to temper our anger with compassion, somehow. If we really do believe in something that transcends pain and pleasure, then love, after all, is all that we have. Plus we need psychologists to help us find ways to free people from these traps, because they really are traps. It's heartbreaking that so many Christian fundamentalists don't know who they are in life and that causes them to be so destructive towards others.<br />Read this book, but be careful. The facts stated here will be more hazardous to some fundamentalists than drinking hemlock.	2003-01-23
US	51171190	R1YXZLFNQTKD49	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pleasurable excursion of the mind	I think I have to say that the only people who can truly read a P.K.D. book from start to finish without becoming disheartened are people who enjoy and take pleasure out of intellectual activities and exercising the brain that his books always present. This means, I think, that only certain people will truly enjoy his books. It's just like how someone who does not take pleasure out of reading sports novels or detective fiction will simply not be able to read those kinds of books. The characters are usually pretty flat in his books, although I would definitely have to say that sometimes I wish they were better. Then again, adding 10-20 pages of character development in the beginning of his books might simply confuse the reader and bore the intellectuals who love reading his books. All told, I think he executes his style perfectly.<br />Ubik is a perfect example of a classic P.K.D. book. Having read some of his other books, I found some of the characters and plotlines to be similar but nonetheless still a love to read.<br />If you like reading because of the exercise it gives your brain or like good ideas or brilliant prose you'll certainly find Ubik very fun to read.	2003-01-05
US	51171190	R14CT7JBBG0KEE	0345350472	978657248	Blade Runner (Movie-Tie-In Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very enjoyable writing	I won't make huge editorial comments but I can try to resolve the reasons why other people have rated the book below 5. I think this book should be celebrated because it is so great. Even to this day, it speaks of ideas that no one in the media business has ever explored more in depth than Phillip K. Dick. It shouldn't be celebrated because it was written long ago. First and foremost, this book is a book of its time. Once the ideas in it become widespread, the book will probably fade from public interest. Let me explain. If you haven't had a lesson in the history of \\"visionary writing\\", in the 1950's they claimed that modern American cities in the year 1990 would look like the cartoon family \\"the Jetson's\\" city. People also thought that by now we'd have space colonies, however we are 50 years away from that. Visionaries are always great for their time, but they always get some facts wrong. Same with Phil K. Dick and any other writer. What's timeless is the ideas they bring, and ideas can truly change the way people think.<br />I think people expected this book to have the most enjoyable traits of all fiction books--action, page-turning, and memorable characters. But instead it has flat, 2-dimensional characters whom you can't seem to either like or stigmatize. I think this is because the book wasn't meant to be a 100%, pure story. It was meant to express an idea through the use of a story. However, because it is partly about storytelling, it would probably drive you just as raving mad if you were forced to read it in school and analyze it like teachers always have you do. In that way, it still is enjoyable and isn't completely academic.<br />I think it could also help if you watched the movie first.<br />I think I liked this book so much because I love science fiction. This book is so visionary and so gripping (again this is at present) that I was equally impressed with the ideas as well as the writing. That's another reason to get this book. He is a great writer, and so many passages of his books could be quoted--they're that good.	2002-09-21
US	51171190	R2Z4BH5DB84MZO	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Severely disappointing	This is a good book, it's just not my kind of book. I spent a long time reading it and even had to schedule my reading so I wouldn't fall behind and stop reading it like I do with many books I'm not really interested in. Well, it really picks up at around page 600. Before that there are a lot of political affairs and descriptions of military tactics, which will probably bore most people but not enough to stop reading altogether.<br />Towards the end, when the pace of the story does get faster, however, I found myself becoming more and more aggravated. I just couldn't stand the splitting dichotomy that my mind's eye reeled from. The technical facts and political background is flawless, perfect. This makes the whole book sound real throughout. Clancy could say that the President had a pet monkey and I'd believe him because he has such good ethos. But near the end of the book, these so carefully described political characters became such an annoying work of fiction I became aggravated.<br />I hope I'm not ruining the book for anyone, but at the end, the characters just become plain STUPID. Imagine reading for 600 pages about fairly intelligent people with their own goals and aspirations, then suddenly have them become mindless non-persons unable to think or act clearly. This is of course a major opinion on my part, but I just found the way the characters acted near the end impossible to believe and frustrating because they didn't fit into character at all nor were their actions realistic.<br />There are some positive points, however. After reading this, I have a lot more respect for people serving in the armed forces. It clearly gives a good perspective for what life in the military can be like, with ranks, commanders in chief, the chain of command, and trying to follow superiors. The dialogue was entertaining and the character interactions were believable, but Tom Clancy could do away with the constant references to sexually-pleasing women every 60 pages or so.<br />Overall I was disappointed in this book. I am looking forward to the movie as I hope it will be a little bit more entertaining.	2002-06-14
US	51171190	RRG4NVW8CXA7U	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loved this book back in 7th grade	Like the first featured reviewer (at the time of my writing this) I also wish my biology teacher made things this interesting! Crichton's ability to predict the future is quite amazing as well. It's been exactly 33 years after the first hardcover edition came out, and it still could seem very up to date and &quot;modern&quot; by many peoples' standards. I think anyone could enjoy this book. I remember at around the same time I was reading this book, practically half my english class was reading it too. The other half was reading &quot;The Hot Zone&quot;, which is based on the same idea of microorganisms killing off humans. The battle between humans and disease has raged on for a long time, and this book perfectly captures that in a very smart and interesting way. Highly recommended, but like the other reviewers have said, don't expect a thriller or even a page turner.	2002-06-02
US	51171190	R2281MRAQKH68L	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Even if you haven't read the first, you'll be disappointed	I read this book about 20% of the way through and then got so bored. I tried to hypnotize myself into reading it, put myself in boring situations so I would be forced to read it, but none of that worked. It was okay, most parts were easy to follow, but hype and sequels and prequels and great expectations just killed this one.<br />When I first read Jurassic Park, it was after seeing the movie. Reading a plot that was so dissimilar to the movie was mind-boggling, because you do have to admit the movie was good. So the movie ruined that book a bit. Then, after reading Jurassic Park, I didn't know what to expect from The Lost World. I actually was hoping to be pleasantly surprised. But in truth, the premise itself along with the rest of the book just does not make sense.<br />First of all, why does anyone want to go back to the island? It's dangerous as hell. It's overrun, infested. Second, why don't they bring heavy equipment when they come back instead of just cattle prods and some rifles? Why not better weapons and equipment for survival? Finally, why the second movie? Hell... why are they making a third?<br />I thought and still think the first movie was great. I have the VHS tape of that and I've seen it probably more than 10 times. The success of the Lost World was just like shooting your horse at point blank range and then trying to ride it while it's dead on the ground. Jurassic Park III is like trying to pull the reins on this massive, maggot-infested, jungle-devoured, forbidden horse to get it to move. If anyone's horse was dead apparently Steven Spielberg didn't think that anyone should get off of it.<br />The success of this monstrous (no correlation intended) franchise just ruins the Lost World and maybe even the original Jurassic Park itself. I rate this book 4 stars and not 1 because I know that it's really better than hype proclaims it to be. If we pretended for a moment that there weren't any trademarked dinosaurs and people didn't care so much about fake computer animation, then we'd see that the Lost World is an okay novel. It's a sequel and it's readable. But it's still only a sequel.ake computer animation, then we'd see that the Lost World is an okay novel. It's a sequel and it's readable. But it's still only a sequel.	2002-06-02
US	51171190	RUO8U0C9V4GWQ	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Sadly, at my age I would not enjoy this book anymore	The philosophy of this book was well summed up by another review below. The Freudian Id that was present in other books has simply beeen replaced by Jung's famous shadow archetype. Of course we all know that creative artists love Carl Jung, and perhaps I'm being a bit shallow here and not letting myself be caught up in it enough, as someone reading a CREATIVE work should be. But if you've ever studied psychology and philosophy I think you'll probably be disappointed because you know too much already, and things will not be as dazzling as you hoped it would be.<br />Freud said that knowledge really can ruin the sense of wonder and discovery, and it's kind of true here. But it's only 371 pages for the paperback edition. Unlike a Clancy Novel, there isn't any long backstory you have to read, and generally it's easy to become captivated by just the premise itself and the science. Better yet you really do not have to listen to these reviews if you do not want to. I loved both the Andromeda Strain and Sphere back when I read them in 7th grade, and I believe that is because I didn't have any expectations at all. Hype is really killer here. The movie, the fanfare, the &quot;dazzling reviews&quot;--they can really ruin any possibly enjoyment you might have of it.	2002-06-02
US	51171190	R38K5A6MTIV3LJ	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great book but may not please all readers	When I finished this book for the first time I was ready to give it 5 stars. But 5 stars is probably too much.<br />This book excels in its action scenes. There is nothing else I liked more about this book than reading each encounter with a terrorist threat and how they used psychology, negotiation, and planning to clear a room full of terrorists in as little as 10 seconds.<br />The visuals he gets into your head are amazingly true to life but not enough to make you turn away in disgust. As is usual with all Clancy novels, there are brief, but constant reminders of the sex lives of all of his main characters.<br />Like many other readers, I was also let down a bit by the ending. But if you can appreciate the super-secret nature of the counter-terrorist organization and if you can for just a few moments imagine the terrorists as being truly evil, then you will be better able to enjoy this book.<br />Unlike his newer novels, Clancy remains more true and fair to politics in this novel. He does not ramble on about his views. Instead he focuses a lot more on the ideology of terrorists, which I loved reading. It's basically the way that hostage rescue teams classify terrorists and calculate what their best course of action is, and it is compelling to read just to be informed.<br />There's really no way you can not be drawn into the action scenes in this book. This is what he excels at. The vivid descriptions of military ops and personnel will definitely be easy to visualize and follow, but be prepared for several moments in between the action where things slow down a lot. You may also be a bit confused about the constant changing of points of view. It will switch from John Clark (one of the main characters) to the terrorists to some strange people you've never read about until 200 pages into the book, and will swing around yet again. I had to go back and read several parts over again just to make sense of things that happened later on in the book. There's also a little bit of humor if you'll allow that. The Russian character in this book is as usual depicted in almost a comical fashion of clumsy cold war spies and people who will shift loyalties at a moment's notice.	2002-06-02
US	51171190	R3DX18CD3LRP53	1570623449	182803536	When Things Fall Apart: Heart Advice for Difficult Times (Shambhala Classics)	Books	3	19	37	N	N	Great advice...	...about how to deal with pain and suffering as part of the human condition.<br />...but read with caution. A lot of the advice given is fairly clingy--<br />Although she claims that she is not clinging to anything, I can see an emotional complex being built right here. Turns out that the complex is just a house o' cards. She always says not to cling to hope and fear and to welcome loneliness into your life. And that you can do this through meditation.<br />The effect is that instead of clinging to things we normally cling to (hopes and fears--more specifically dreams, wishes, desires,____ &lt;--insert your own word or description of what you hold dear in your life, and most important of all, LOVE!) she tells us not to cling entirely. But based on the literal definition of the human condition, it's impossible not to cling to something--or rather I like to use the word 'lean'. If you've got friends, you lean on them for support. If you have loved ones, you care for them, which can also be described as a form of 'clinging'. Of course only you can make this distinction but I must warn you about falling into trap of pretending that you're not clinging when you really are: if you find yourself constantly and constantly returning to the same things, you're clinging to something, in this case, her words. By following them so closely and becoming obsessed with the truth, you're just finding someone else to cling to and [mis]representing the reasons why you are doing so.<br />I tried meditation, and being a person who used to believe in Christianity, I can definitely tell when a complex is being formed. You know how Christians can be so good at making their religion sound like it's the only evangelical way to go? And how the religion preaches that you must spread it everywhere (reference to many places in the bible, specifically Matthew Ch. 28 is the most popular &quot;version&quot; of this idea)? The same kind of thing happens here.<br />Go look up this word in the dictionary, and ponder why the word was invented (all words start because they're needed to describe some kind of new feeling or phenom or idea): catharsis<br />Meditation being a large part of her teaching, I guess I should address this issue. There are many meanings to the word &quot;meditation&quot;. It is a broad word that can be used to represent all kinds of spiritual experiences. Listening to music can be meditation. Concentrating on breathing when you are not tired is also another way. Touching other people or things can be a meditative or 'spiritual' experience. I compare 'meditation' to 'Spirituality' as I would compare 'empathy' to 'Compassion'. There's a big 'C' when it comes to compassion, but empathy is a natural branch off of this main idea. Same with 'meditation' to Spirituality. However, meditation is not the only thing when it comes to spirituality. If you believe it is the only thing, you'll probably find yourself meditating too frequently because you'll be constantly searching for something that always seems to be out of reach or missing. Now, to put my point in perspective, think about 'empathy' to 'Compassion'. There is a drug called MDMA or more popularly known as Ecstasy. This drug's main effect is to create extreme feelings of empathy--note that it doesn't create compassion, but rather, empathy. This is an important point to think about when it comes to your own life, and what's acceptable for you. It's duration lasts on average from 5 minutes to an hour. At the beginning of its production, before it was made illegal by the U.S. government (it's still legal in many European countries), it was backed-up by many major psychiatrists until they discovered that it could cause permanent damage to certain brain stems in people using it (it destroys currently existing stems and regrows them in abnormal ways). Now the actual scientific facts are not that important--what's really important is to ask yourself this question: &quot;Have you ever considered empathy to be like a drug?&quot; Usually we pester ourselves and others to have more empathy. Now ask this question: &quot;Have you ever considered meditation to be like a drug?&quot;<br />The final thing I'd have to say about this book, and all of her books for that matter, is that she never addresses sex and sexuality. Where do these fit into the spiritual world? She never talks about sensuality either. People like her never talk about these things and I doubt they EVER will. Many monks like her actually struggle with thoughts of sexuality. When the thoughts come up, they simply (here we go again) meditate and call it &quot;Thinking&quot;. They tell you, &quot;say it out loud if you need to.&quot; But by no means ever accept it.<br />Bottom line: it's true, pain is a human condition, you can easily learn that from any of her books (as they are essentially all the same), but also keep in mind that if you plan to follow all of her advice, get ready to say &quot;Thinking&quot; a lot.<br />8 worldly dharmas<BR>7 swans a swimming<br />6 kinds of loneliness<BR>5 golden rings!<BR>4 maras<BR>3 french hens<BR>2 turtle doves<BR>and a partridge in a pear tree!<br />Borrowing from another reviewer, &quot;I couldn't resist!&quot; But otherwise, there is some very good spiritual information in this book.	2002-01-16
US	51171190	R1D3V8LHYFWP9X	084466927X	458475501	The Moral Animal: Evolutionary Psychology and Everyday Life	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great scientific insights in evolutionary psychology	This book can be pretty &quot;scientific&quot; and abstract in its findings. But what I think it does well is stress a political view of Darwinian psychology by rationalizing it with our feelings and how it affects us. I especially enjoyed the beginning to the book, which reassured us that evolutionary psychology is just the first step, and the most logical one right now. Instead of comparing these ideas to other vastly conflicting views I think this book is a good read in that it is very liberal towards other views and constantly clarifies its own understanding of human nature. What I'm sick of hearing these days is people who aren't compassionate of others' views, and I think that viewing this book in that light allows us to see more clearly the things that do make a whole lot of sense. While there are errors people have pointed out, it still remains a good introduction to this new science.<br />Evolutionary psychology is something everyone should study some time on their own and it will most certainly open many new doors... far more than it closes. But the insights it will give us helps us to apply our moral understanding to these instincts we perceive and change our own attitudes about them.<br />Some still complain that the scientific explanation of morals and altruism lessens the importance of the feelings, but I believe otherwise. I believe that after studying music theory I can still create vast representations of my feelings and transmit those to others. I believe that even if we decide that a painter will usually use a canvas to paint that it will still represent an indescribable feeling in it. Everything needs to take a form, and forms and feelings can coexist. Have you ever heard about people who say they study and work better when they listen to classical music? Classical music is much more technical and form-based yet it clearly demonstrates that it can coexist with our feelings. In a sense we develop the feelings better by developing understanding ofthe form. And I think that is exactly the role that evolutionary psychology plays in our lives.	2001-01-30
US	51171190	R34DILI9OY0TRW	0385281056	423183707	Carl Rogers on Personal Power	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Awesome!	Books aren't always going to give people insight or truly cover the scope of their feelings, but no matter what your first inclination towards this book is, it will present some things that may even give you a hint of new insight or a new way of looking at things. What Rogers describes becomes almost a &quot;mystical&quot; sensation, one of the few life affirming attitudes that help us rule out logical paradigms and be comfortable with our feelings.	2001-01-30
