US	51170023	R1FTDDY8R6UHGF	0195157974	636114224	The Dream Endures: California Enters the 1940s (Americans and the California Dream)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	More of the same, which is a good thing	If you've read any of Dr. Starr's California histories, you've got the idea.  Generally they're excellent.  And if you've read SEVERAL of Dr. Starr's California histories, you'll undoubtedly notice that he has his favorite subjects:  Colleges and universities, churches and institutional architecture, preferably Gothic or Spanish Revival.  Being a transplanted East Coaster, I like this kind of thing, but I can also see where a dedicated Westie might find it tedious and oh so dry.  All of these books come down to basically the same thing:  History of California institutions from an Ivy League perspective.  Imagine if Henry Adams had lived another 80 years and had written a history of California.	2005-10-10
US	51170023	R2Z1G7F906UQ8K	0807845949	123069961	A Guide to the Historic Architecture of Eastern North Carolina (Richard Hampton Jenrette Series in Architecture and the Decorative Arts)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Remarkably complete survey of the highest quality	This book is exactly what its title suggests:  It's a survey of HISTORIC architecture in eastern North Carolina, one of the richest concentrations of colonial, federal, and early Romantic architecture in the country.  Eastern North Carolina is a feast for anyone who enjoys small coastal towns packed with historic churches and houses, small regional cities that aspired to metropoli but failed and are now preserved gems of early 20th century urban architecture, and rural plantations off the beaten path just waiting for that late afternoon thunderstorm.  This book, along with its two equally good companion volumes covering the Piedmont and West, is a joy to simply browse for a quick daydream or a resource to pour over as part of a larger research project.  They're really that good.<br /><br />In the world of architectural surveys, the variation in standards can be frustrating.  Some are generally excellent, complete and (relatively) objective, while some are grossly incomplete or out of date.  Some are packed with structures that have otherwise been demolished or destroyed (what's the point?).  Some are so overstuffed with editorial political correctness and arcane archi-speak that they can't be enjoyed for the art itself.  Also, some like to use what I call \\"iconoclastic postdating,\\" a form of revisionism that always finds buildings to be younger than previously thought, but never older.<br /><br />This guide, miraculously, resists ALL of these potential flaws.  It is of the highest scholarly and editorial quality.  There are no significant omissions to reveal the author's political or aesthetic bias.  The summaries are concise and well written.  The coverage is truly exhaustive, being a combination of single entries and location summaries.  The photographs are largely functional rather than artistic, but are well chosen to reveal the structures in entirety, as they would appear from the street or other public right of way.  Maps are very good, simple and accurate.  The catalog is introduced by a substantial essay which puts the buildings in their larger historical, social and artistic contexts.<br /><br />If you're a fan of architectural surveys, these are among the very best and are every bit as good as, if not better than, the BUILDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES series.  If you're a fan of rural and small-town historical architecture, these books are representative of the genre.  Buy all three books for a complete survey of the states's remarkable ensemble of historic buildings.he catalog is introduced by a substantial essay which puts the buildings in their larger historical, social and artistic contexts.<br /><br />If you're a fan of architectural surveys, these are among the very best and are every bit as good as, if not better than, the BUILDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES series.  If you're a fan of rural and small-town historical architecture, these books are representative of the genre.  Buy all three books for a complete survey of the states's remarkable ensemble of historic buildings.	2005-06-01
US	51170023	R1FFEOPBKBCWAZ	0870334778	528008068	A Guide to Baltimore Architecture	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Somewhat dated guide to historic landmarks is still good	Baltimore is a hard city to get your hands around.  It's the quintessential image of urban decay; poor, crime-ridden, but also surprisingly hospitable and absolutely crammed with exceptional historical architecture.  Poverty, in this case, has proved to be the best preserver, and most of Baltimore's lovely old churches and public buildings are still with us in their somewhat decrepit state.  Despite the public image, any enthusiast of American urban architectural history has to love Baltimore.  The building stock from 1790 to 1860 is PARTICULARLY good, as Baltimore absolutely exploded during those years.  The guide presents remaining structures from this period very well.<br /><br />This book summarizes the provenance and artistic significance of about 200 [mostly historical] sites.  It largely, though not entirely, ingores Baltimore's modern structures (Myerhoff, Harborplace, Eisenhower Library, etc...), and there are even some conspicuous gaps in the presentation of the historic fabric.  The Lyric Opera House, for example, is completely absent.  So is the Old Post Office.  Pimlico, ditto.  Memorial Stadium?  Also, this book was published in 1997, which makes it rather dated in the world of architectural surveys.  Time for a new edition.  And fill in those holes!<br /><br />Those issues aside, this book is better than the vast majority of the urban architectural surveys out there.  It includes a photograph of every structure, along with a concise essay describing its history and distinguishing features.  It includes biographies of important Baltimore architects and well-written, substantive introductory chapters to set the historical context.  It's well done.<br /><br />The book is organized into tours by geographic area, featuring the most important landmark structures.  There are also excursions beyond the city limits, into the shallow suburbs.<br /><br />Recommended for architectural historians and cultural tourists alike.	2005-01-25
US	51170023	R34PHOMRILT87B	023107851X	610110013	Morningside Heights: A History of Its Architecture and Development	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Exhaustive architectural history of major institutions	This book is NOT an architectural survey, per se.  It does not attempt to catalogue all the historic or important structures of the neighborhood as, say, an AIA Guide does.  Instead, it considers in some detail the architectural history of the neighborhood and its major institutions.  We know which ones:  Columbia University, Barnard College, Riverside Church, Union Theological Seminary, the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, and St. Luke's Hospital.  As a tool for practicing architects or as a source for architectural historians, this book is about as good as they get.  As a piece to enjoy for the general, curious reader it's a bit academic.  Photographs are all black and white, and are technical and pragmatic rather than artistic.<br /><br />One more point:  The narrative seems largely absent of knee-jerk political correctness and fadish multi-culturalist rhetoric, which is refreshing.  Thus, the author has stopped at nothing in order to maintain the highest academic and scholarly standards in the book.  Well done, in that regard.	2005-01-19
US	51170023	R1DRGW0ILW8IM0	0812931076	203482601	AIA Guide to New York City	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The City in your hand	What can we say about New York that hasn't been said?  It's an awesome place, and its architecture is truly astonishing in scope, diversity and importance.  This book is a selective catalogue of the City's most beloved historic buildings, with a sprinkling of important modern structures as well.  I say \\"historic\\" because this guide just happens to be that way.  There are some conspicuous gaps in the presentation of important modern buildings, which probably reflects the artistic preferences of the editors, but all of the most well-known modern architects are appropriately represented.<br /><br />This is a book for architectural historians, curious cultural tourists and general readers.  The entries are many, so the words included with each are few.  Readers are not treated to long narrative histories of imporant landmarks but, rather, to a book that is exceptionally wide and quite shallow.  This is what one generally expects from AIA-sponsored guides, so there should be no surprises.  There are tiny monochrome photographs with almost every entry, but their small size limits the reader's ability to get a good mental image of the building.  Buy this book to take New York's lovely historical architecture with you wherever you go.  And by all means, go to see it!  No city on earth even comes close.<br /><br />Latest edition is 2000, so World Trade Center towers are included.	2005-01-19
US	51170023	R23MWQQT01USBP	0300000464	467403506	The American Mind: An Interpretation of American Thought and Character Since the 1880's	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Our forgotten Progressive-era intellectuals	Commager's thesis here is pretty simple:  The American character is animated by pragmatic concerns rather than by abstract thoughts.  Commager reckons that the Civil War and the economic disasters of the 1890s provided the kindling for a blaze of intellectual, national self-examination in the following decades.  Abstract theories were out.  Pragmatic solutions were in.  This thesis sound familiar?  His style is \\"New History\\" all the way.  Not so many dates and numbers and summaries of important events, but lots of narrative discussion of intellectuals, their ideas, and the inter-relation of those ideas.  In that way, this book resembles Lovejoy's THE GREAT CHAIN OF BEING, in style if not in substance.<br /><br />Though most of the characters Commager discusses here have generally been relegated to the academic dustbin--replaced by trendy postmodernism and deconstruction--they deserve our renewed attention for their contribution to American intellectual maturity.  This is really the first generation of Americans, according to the author, which accepted the challenge to write an assessment of the American charater and condition from within, rather than simply relying on the interpretations of somewhat biased foreigners (i.e. Crevecouer, de Tocqueville and Bryce).  Commager wants to capture the image of America through American eyes rather than through the filter of European culture cringe so apparent in the works of ante-bellum historians like Adams and Parkman.<br /><br />Read it to know what Americans thought of themselves after the trauma of the Civil War and the economic crisis of 1893.  And, by all means, read Menand's THE METAPHYSICAL CLUB as well.	2005-01-10
US	51170023	R127XR8IXUNNEV	0195140494	60583506	Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898	Books	4	27	33	N	Y	Vast, but definitive?	Nobody can deny that this is a mammoth work of scholarship deserving of praise, but before you dive into this one with determination and zeal you should know a few things.  First, despite what others are saying about the book, it does NOT read like a novel.  It's narrative history to be sure, but it's also full of numbers, dates, figures, statistics and other analytical details which make the thing feel far more academic than is frequently suggested or expected.  Also, the authors greatly emphasize the political and (especially) commercial history of the city, sometimes to the neglect of cultural matters.  This huge and allegedly definitive book is largely and conspicuously absent of substantive references to Columbia University, for example.  Are the authors suggesting that Columbia is not an institution deserving of our more focused attention?  In this way, the book is quite different from Kevin Starr's treatment of California history, largely as a history of its institutions.  Commercial and political institutions get many pages, but important cultural institutions are sadly neglected.	2004-12-29
US	51170023	R1739VH030DHSQ	0195159268	265681540	Landon Carter's Uneasy Kingdom: Revolution and Rebellion on a Virginia Plantation	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	More than the title suggests	This book isn't as popular as it should be because the title makes it seem something of a dry academic tome and, let's face it, Landon Carter doesn't have the popular name recognition of Alexander Hamilton (i.e. Chernow), George Washington (i.e. Ellis) or Benjamin Franklin (i.e. Wood).<br /><br />The star of the show in this case is Carter himself rather than the author.  Dr. Isaac does a wonderful job of framing and interpreting Carter's diary to make a coherent analysis of the profound social changes which occurred during the Revolutionary period.  Carter was a first hand witness to the transformation of the American society from a rigid colonial society based on patronage to a participatory, republican society in which people made lives for themselves.  The transformation is nothing less than a journey of existential self-discovery for Carter, which is something ANY person can appreciate.  So this book is not just a biography of a member of the Virginia planter aristocracy, but a reflection of the undermining of the feudal, patriarchal social structure Americans largely rejected during the Revolution.  And it illustrates that the highly dualistic interpretation of Americans of the period as either \\"patriot\\" or \\"loyalist\\" is largely a modern historical construct with little basis in truth.  Marvelous work by one of the foremost historians of American colonial history.	2004-12-16
US	51170023	R15QUT3GJZMOCY	0195042336	426970347	Americans and the California Dream, 1850-1915	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Excellent institutional history	Starr's cultural history of California is more institutional history than anything else, which is not a bad thing if you like foundation studies.  At the core of the book is the story of how enterprising and eccentric New Englanders attempted to tranfer their native civilization, with all its European imagery, to a new \\"city on the hill\\" at San Francisco.  It's full of dates and events surrounding the history of colleges and churches and the people who founded them.  One can easily sense Starr's interest in intellectual history as reflected in architecture, education and organized religion which, ironically, is a very East-coast way of looking at West-coast culture.  Starr's book is excellent if you like that sort of thing, but it's not as tempting a study for those more fascinated with flesh and bone than brick and stone.  Some could claim that it misses the fundamental essense of California culture altogether; a \\"new\\" civilization unencombered by pedigree and moulded by a beautiful and oppressive geography.  This first book of the series is heavily centered around San Francisco and its related institutions.<br /><br />Criticism aside, Dr. Starr's skill as a narrative historian is remarkable, and he should be considered in the same company as Henry Adams and Daniel Boorstin.	2004-11-22
US	51170023	R1DLBPY5UVI5YR	1861542607	588029855	Petersburg Perspectives	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Superlative Photography, Decent Essays	Let me first tell you what this book is not.  It's not a travel guide.  It's not an historical narrative.  It's not an architectural survey.  So you'll not want to spend your money here if you're looking for that kind of thing.  What it is is a portrait of the city's BEST parts, including stunning (if conservative) photography of the most well-known landmarks.  That said, it's mostly a photo album of the city's physical elements (buildings, canals, roads) rather than its human element.  And since it's intended to show off the best of St. Petersburg, the grittier bits are hard to find and are shoved into the very back.  So, be prepared.  This is more about how St. Petersburg is the best, biggest, grandest, richest, most sophisticated, etc., etc...  It's beautiful, but it can also be pompous and a bit tedious.<br /><br />Essays largely frame the photography, and offer historical contexts and anecdotes.  They're well written, but they're also swollen with praise for this frequently over-hyped city.<br /><br />In the rankings of overdone places of cultural and architectural prestige, St. Petersburg ranks right up there with Prague and Paris, but I love it anyway.  If you \\"love it anyway\\", this is a book for you.	2004-09-28
US	51170023	R1GWNVCKTVE1TI	159420019X	240296592	The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	The definitive Franklin	Gordon S. Wood is such a fabulous writer and such a skilled historian that it's impossible to not be impressed by his work.  He writes history that reads so smoothly and argues so gracefully that it's impossible to not be convinced.  Wood has a comfort zone that he likes to operate in, and all of his books are resident in this zone.  It has two components.  First, he constructs all his arguments in a &quot;before&quot; and &quot;after&quot; style in order to frame the central points of his thesis.  He says, once upon a time things were like this.  Then a critical event happened that changed everything.  That event, for Wood, is always the Peace of Paris in 1783.  But it's not the military or political or economic consequences of the Revolution that Wood insists changed everything.  It's the change in social structure and, more to the point, the blurring of social class lines due to social mobility (both physical and economic) that moved America and its people from feudalism to democracy.  THE RADICALISM OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION went something like this, and the current biography of Franklin puts him in this context.  It's a view of Franklin in terms of social class.  Now, I'm sure Dr. Wood would argue with me, saying that I reduce his theses down into far too simple terms.  Granted, I'm not criticizing him.  This work, as his others, is a penetrating study and should attract much scholarly and critical acclaim.	2004-06-14
US	51170023	R3QWZGFPKST0Q5	0801859808	486537163	Maryland: A New Guide to the Old Line State	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	None better.  A "handbook" of Maryland.	Maryland is not a state many people think of when they consider a travel destination.  That, of course, doesn't mean that Maryland isn't dense with cultural, historical, and natural treasures.  This book covers all of them in fine detail, with an emphasis on the cultural and historical.  It's not a travel guide per se, but more of an historical and cultural survey of the state's towns and institutions.  That said, it covers them exhaustively.  Think the Eastern Shore, Delmarva, and the far west frequently get the short end of the stick in Maryland guides and histories?  Not in this case.  The entire state is covered in twenty geographically organized tours.<br /><br />I lived in Maryland for almost 20 years, in Frederick County, and I've not found a better portrait of that beautiful part of the United States anywhere.  This book has been in print for over two decades, and it's still a best seller.  I like it so much, I bought it three times.  Every time I moved to another state and wanted to have my home within easy reach, I reached for this volume.<br /><br />Maryland has the nickname \\"Little America\\" for a reason.  Its geography and history are enormously diverse - somewhat appropriate for a border state that has served as a national crossroads for centuries.  There are parts of Maryland that look and feel like Virginia.  There are parts that look and feel like West Virginia, and there are parts that look and feel like New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.  This book will really give you a precise flavor of Maryland's lovely diversity.  Want to know this little, modest border state?  Read this book.	2004-05-28
US	51170023	R193YCODV8Y203	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Killing a fly with a shotgun	Wow, this is nasty!  I have to admire a writer passionate enough to say what she really believes, with absolutely no consideration for political correctness or intellectual fads.  It reminds you that there was once a time when it was OK to create dialogue with offense.  It's crude, but it's fascinating.  Now, you'll hate this book if you think the term 'conservative intellectual' is an oxymoron.  That's basically it in a nutshell.  If you think that, by definition, intellectuals MUST be open-minded, politically-correct, liberals you're gonna hate this.  It's none of those things.  If you can look beyond the fact that polemical writing is a legitimate literary device used by many of the world's finest writers and not just by 'pop philosphers', you may actually get something from this book.  I challenge you to ignore the hackneyed claim from many a review that Rand is nothing more than a philosopher for teenagers and really THINK about what she is saying.  You may find that it's possible to be conservative AND intellectual too, God forbid.<br />And if you like this book, you'll also like the more arcane and subtle Czeslaw Milosz work called THE CAPTIVE MIND.	2004-03-16
US	51170023	RY7FS9S7ARJ1V	0826512674	832969629	The Philosophy of Loyalty (The Vanderbilt Library of American Philosophy)	Books	4	12	19	N	Y	Admirable Monotony	If you're reading this book, here are some things you already know:  Royce is considered to be America's great idealist.  He was a professor at Harvard at the same time as the great William James, and suffered from a profound inferiority complex.  He mixed his &quot;teutonic metaphysics&quot; with appropriate doses of Christianity-inspired ethics.  You'll get treated to all these things in this book.<br />Royce has fallen completely out of fashion since the 1960s due mostly to the modern academy embracing relativism rather than to Royce's lack of intellectual profundity.  But if we dig deep enough, is Royce really that intellectually profound?  Idealism always tends towards a &quot;first cause&quot; and &quot;final conclusion&quot; type of structure.  It's the nature of that way of thinking, by definition.  Royce abandons profound and critical exploration of his theses frequently by building his arguments around what he believes to be immutable concepts which, frankly, leave one wondering how a man of such intelligence can fall for something so simplistic.  Basically, what you have here is Royce defending his idealism against the Pragmatists' relativism by suggesting that &quot;loyalty to loyalty&quot; is the be-all-and-end-all of ethics.  Men (and women) act the way they do, and SHOULD act the way they do based on their commitment to a beloved &quot;cause.&quot;  Men (and women) will rally around good causes and reject bad ones.  Most critical readers are going to asks themselves, &quot;Can it really be that simple?&quot;  In short, I don't buy it.  And you'll know if you buy it from the introduction.  From then on out, Royce will either further convince you with his defense, or you'll become bored with the monotony of it.	2004-01-26
US	51170023	R3R95UIBTN2EDD	0743255429	19059970	The Hornet's Nest: A Novel of the Revolutionary War	Books	4	15	18	N	N	More history than novel	It's hard to bring myself to the point of criticizing someone as important, respected and truly talented as President Carter.  I have the utmost respect for the man and his entire career, not to mention his literary oeuvre.  But let's keep in mind that President Carter is an engineer by academic training, having studied at the Georgia Institute of Technology and the Naval Academy.  Nobody is going to confuse him with John Steinbeck, nor should they.  This book reads like a history book rather than a novel.  It's meticulously researched and well written, but President Carter just doesn't have the talent of metaphor that, say, Faulkner has.  And that's a tall order, I know.  That said, keep in mind that the President's prose isn't going to rivet you to your seat and his plot isn't going to keep you on the edge of it.  The book seems to accomplish its purpose of vividly portraying the period and place, but it does so in relatively unpolished form.  And perhaps most importantly, the book captures the President's enthusiasm and what historian Daniel Boorstin would call &quot;amateur spirit&quot;--something we truly miss in a world of hyper-specialization and professionalism.<br />President Carter is Georgia's ambassador to the world, and he is deserving of our attention.  His literary endeavors are sincere and impressive.  He's a true renaissance man, and a crystal clear voice in a confusing and troubled time.	2004-01-02
US	51170023	RHDZS9HQSNPM	1568982461	449102722	The Campus Guide: Rice University	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	Rice for the politically correct	This is the second book in this series that I've read, and it's the second disappointment.  While slightly better than the Stanford book from the same series, this book is still plagued with similar problems:  Esoteric, pedantic writing.  Little historical context, other than detailed descriptions of various campus plans and such.  Few really good, comprehensive photographs, and not an interior shot to be found anywhere.<br /><br />I guess some of my complaint with this book is that it seems to be written for architectural historians, and should not be considered a general campus guide or historical guide.  General readers will be confused by the arcane, pretentious archi-speak in which buildings combine to form a \\"narrative\\" and building details \\"communicate\\" with each other.  That's fine for insiders, but it's an irritant for so-called \\"laypeople.\\"  Even more silly is the over-the-top political correctness of the text.  Many building designs that are deferential to historical styles and attempt to maintain the continuity of Cram's original Beaux-Arts plan (including those by such famous architects as Watkin, Robert A. M. Stern, Greenberg, Cesar Pelli and others) are inherently flawed, according to Mr. Fox.  Instead, he wants us to know that the real substance of good design at Rice (beyond the Cram buildings) is located in the so-called \\"other Rice\\" of support structures; parking lots, stadiums, sheds and kitchen buildings.  In fact, these buildings are the most valuable because they represent the toils of \\"people of color.\\"  What has this to do with beautiful, artistic design I wonder?  I wish sometimes these architectural historians wouldn't take themselves so seriously.  Thankfully, Mr. Fox recognizes that Fondren Library is a wart on the arse of this otherwise beautiful university.  How that box managed to get itself onto the academic court, and from the pen of John Staub(!), I'll never know.<br /><br />I don't want to give the impression that the book is horrible.  It's not, but I can't hide my displeasure with its relative sloppiness and editorial bent.<br /><br />Rice is a gorgeous university.  Its grounds and buildings are stunning.  It deserves a more artistically inclined, and less politically motivated presentation.  And Stephen Fox is such an important architectural historian, with exceptional works on Houston (his AIA guide, for example), John Staub and other Texas sites and topics.  I wish his treatment of Rice University was more insightful and less pretentious.  He can do much better.but I can't hide my displeasure with its relative sloppiness and editorial bent.    Rice is a gorgeous university.  Its grounds and buildings are stunning.  It deserves a more artistically inclined, and less politically motivated presentation.  And Stephen Fox is such an important architectural historian, with exceptional works on Houston (his AIA guide, for example), John Staub and other Texas sites and topics.  I wish his treatment of Rice University was more insightful and less pretentious.  He can do much better.	2003-12-18
US	51170023	R1650VKUSGTP8G	1568981694	922113065	Stanford University: The Campus Guides	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Stanford for everybody	Let's face it.  Most of us will never get to study at, or be hired by this prestigious Bay Area institution.  That doesn't mean that we can't enjoy the beauty of its grounds and buildings.  Stanford, in addition to being one of the very best universities on earth, is also one of the most beautiful.<br />Institutional histories tend to be excessively pedantic affairs.  I know of no history of a university yet written that is an exception.  They're generally dull, tedious things written for people who want to be sure that THEIR college is the best.  And as another reviewer has noted, the style of writing is usually over-refined and staid.  This book is no exception to those rules.  But that said, it gives us a portrait of a university and its history through the grounds and buildings, bringing it to we who have no other chance to learn about Stanford but with our own eyes.  So, the book may be dry and incomplete, but the university itself is gorgeous.  That's what saves the entire effort.<br />Stanford started out life back in 1885 as an idea not unlike the ideas John D. Rockefeller had for the University of Chicago.  And while Chicago became a world-class university directly out of the box, it took some decades for Stanford to catch up.  It wasn't for lack of good buildings, as this book will prove.  There are really two things that make Stanford exceptional in this regard.  First, it transformed itself from a somewhat troubled early design, strapped by the heavy hand of the founder's wife and a devastating earthquake in 1906, into one of the world's great universities in less than 50 years.  Second, when the vast majority of colleges and universities in the United States (and the world) were always seeking to make themselves into carbon-copies of Oxford and Cambridge, Stanford and its designers dared to try something new.  Look at this book and then go to the university to see for yourself.	2003-11-20
US	51170023	RUPWTZ47P7RW1	1886069158	734236104	Form of Beauty : The Krishna Art of B.G. Sharma (Art of Devotion Series Art of Devotion Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gorgeous.  Poetic.  Magnificent.	Words don't do the artist justice here, though the lovely sacred verses and captions by Swami Tripurari frame the art work in its proper religious context.  Simply stated, it must be seen.  It's rare indeed to discover an artist or writer who helps you understand the glory of God and his miraculous gifts.  This is one such example.  A consummate masterpiece.	2003-11-11
US	51170023	R28GLEQNVFFCDQ	0471191205	181819986	National Trust Guide/San Francisco: America's Guide for Architecture and History Travelers	Books	3	5	14	N	Y	Good, but politically correct.	Even the most orthodox of post-colonial, politically-correct revisionists have to admit that MOST of what San Francisco is today is because of the United States and its values.  San Francisco, for all intents and purposes, didn't exist before 1846, so why does the author still feel it necessary to bore the reader with blather about the United States \\"stealing\\" California from Mexico or referring to the \\"so-called conquest\\"?  Writing about San Francisco as if it somehow \\"belonged\\" to any nation other than the United States is just plain stupid.  So I wish the author had spared us the politically-correct drivel about the noble Californios and Mexicans and (even!) Spanish.  It's as if he says, \\"The United States sucks for doing what it did in California.  Now let me tell you about the magnificent city it built.\\"  That said, the history section (the first half of the book) is better than the generally incomplete architectural survey.  San Francisco is so crammed with good stuff that a complete architectural survey is a tall order, so it's forgivable.  The most obvious omissions are the newer sections of Pacific Heights and Richmond.  Incidentally, these are the places built most recently with new wealth, which is as good as non-existent to those inclined toward political correctness.<br /><br />San Francisco is an American city, and the National Trust has an obligation to support that notion.  This book leaves one wondering if we \\"stole\\" the city from Mexico.  Nonsense.  Literally, other than the Mission and assorted place names, San Francisco started in 1849.	2003-09-23
US	51170023	R25NE6O0K79D54	0786885157	396019576	Desirable Daughters: A Novel	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Lifestyles of the Rich and Xenophobic	Read this book if you:<br />1.  Want to understand why the expatriate Brahmin community is so closed;<br />2.  Are an American man chasing a Brahmin woman and can't figure out why it's not working; or<br />3.  You're an expatriate Brahmin woman and you want to know why your American acquaintances think you're so difficult.<br />The author's language is relatively laconic rather than lyrical or profound and the plot is banal.  Don't look for philosophical insights or subtle twists of manner.  This is more soap opera than Austen.	2003-03-28
US	51170023	R3BHF40SNNYF9K	0312119305	244237174	The Palace Thief: Stories	Books	5	38	46	N	N	Wonderful human drama.	Let's face it folks:  All stories have already been told.  In fact, the Greeks nailed down about every possible archetypal character, conflict and plot over 2,000 years ago.  So, bashing this book for being \\"trite\\" or \\"banal\\" essentially bashes every modern work of fiction.  The value of literature, then, becomes how well something is done rather than how original it is.  What these snobby critics (i.e. The New York Times) simply can't stand is that Canin's methods are entirely anti-postmodern.  If you're into literary trickery a la David Foster Wallace or Paul Auster or Thomas Phynchon you had better stay clear of these gorgeous stories about human beings (rather than talking dogs).  This is exactly what literature should be.  The stories are about the characters, not the author.  Writers like Wallace and Pynchon want you to remember the author.  So much of postmodern fiction is about the author and the author's baggage, all rendered in a self-serving mess of psychological confession and silly pop-art trendiness.  Canin's writing is about telling a profound story with beautiful language.  God forbid!  Canin is willing to subordinate fake originality to a supreme understanding and mastery of the world's most noble craft.  American fiction needs more writers like this, willing to embrace the fundamentals of literature rather than faddish trickery.  Very impressive.	2002-12-02
US	51170023	R369QWJ40C5N6P	0684865858	228469250	Look Away!: A History of the Confederate States of America	Books	5	23	30	N	Y	Superb.  Best political history of CSA to date.	Folks like to say that this book is \\"good\\" but it's \\"not Davis's best.\\"  I would say that it IS his best, and certainly deserving of some attention from the various prize committees.  The author's treatment of the creation of the Provisional Government and drafting of the Permanent Constitution are a real joy, if you like political history.  That's an important point:  This book is essentially a political history, with some special treatment of critical social issues such as slavery and commerce.  It is not a military history of the Civil War.  Those readers expecting that will be disappointed.  What Philadelphia was to the United States, Montgomery (Alabama) was to the Confederate States and Davis handles this episode with authority.  The chapters about the various forms of apology and propaganda in support of slavery are mind bending.  As grave as many of these topics are, Davis animates them with beautiful narrative prose and scholarly rigor.  His topics are terribly unfashionable which, unfortunately, hinders his chances for a (well deserved) major prize.  Books like this should be read by a general audience, as they illuminate much about pre-Civil War American politics as much as they do about Southern history.	2002-11-25
US	51170023	RT54RQBGHI1NQ	0844666327	544197819	The Mind of the South	Books	3	105	127	N	N	A reaction to Gone with the Wind.	Since Reconstruction, works of Southern history and, in this case, sociology have usually fallen into two distinct genres.  The first tends to reinforce the popular Old South mythology with exaggerated, romantic imagery as inspired by an emotional attachment to the &quot;Lost Cause.&quot;  The second is a reaction to the first.  The revisionists, always irritated by the chauvinism of Southern popular mythology, want to convince you that Southern mythology is exactly that--a myth.  The most violent of the revisionists will have you believe that romantic images of the Old South are fundamentally fictional--an image created by the Southern propagandists eager to create only the most flattering cultural portrait.  For the record, THE MIND OF THE SOUTH falls more into the second category than the first.  In fact, all of the works of Southern history and sociology that we now consider &quot;classic&quot; are more critical and revisionist than romantic.  The non-fiction works of Cash, Odum, and C. Vann Woodward, and the fiction of Ellen Glasgow are all appreciated throughout the country for their critical views of what we call the Old South.  It has become nearly equivalent in Southern studies to call a work both revisionist and worthy of praise.  The ideas are, unfortunately, redundant.  One's appreciation for things Southern all but negates one's credibility as a serious scholar.  But the problem with extreme revisionism, and with the Cash work in particular, is that it has you believe that Southern mythology is SO fictional that it is nearly arbitrary.  It wants you to believe that popular Southern imagery is a product of ignornace rather than careful consideration of the evidence.  There is a difference between calling mythology an exaggeration, as the best works of William C. Davis, John Shelton Reed and Edward L. Ayers do, and calling it patently false, as the works of C. Vann Woodward and W. J. Cash do.  This is the challenging question for any revisionist:  If the popular view you are trying to de- and reconstruct is false, why (and how) was it originally created?  And more critically, if all of history is just a social construction, what makes your take on things innately more accurate than mine?  It seems to me that popular mythology must have some grain of truth, for it would not have developed as it did from nothing.  It must be based on something that really exists.  This idea, of course, is violently rejected by most post-modern historians who believe that ALL of history is nothing more than a social construction.  For those sympathetic to that view, this book will appeal to you.  To those looking for some insights into the factual basis for a Southern creation myth, you'd do better to read Ayers, Davis, or Reed.  These fine historians are able to treat the topic with a sensitive balance of critical insight and popular appreciation.<br />Published in 1941, one can't help but think that THE MIND OF THE SOUTH is an iconoclastic reaction to the immense popularity of GONE WITH THE WIND, released in 1939.popular view you are trying to de- and reconstruct is false, why (and how) was it originally created?  And more critically, if all of history is just a social construction, what makes your take on things innately more accurate than mine?  It seems to me that popular mythology must have some grain of truth, for it would not have developed as it did from nothing.  It must be based on something that really exists.  This idea, of course, is violently rejected by most post-modern historians who believe that ALL of history is nothing more than a social construction.  For those sympathetic to that view, this book will appeal to you.  To those looking for some insights into the factual basis for a Southern creation myth, you'd do better to read Ayers, Davis, or Reed.  These fine historians are able to treat the topic with a sensitive balance of critical insight and popular appreciation.<br />Published in 1941, one can't help but think that THE MIND OF THE SOUTH is an iconoclastic reaction to the immense popularity of GONE WITH THE WIND, released in 1939.	2002-11-22
US	51170023	R1P16IMMQSTQ45	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fashionable anti-Jefferson revisionism	I can't claim that this thing isn't entertaining.  It is.  I can claim that it isn't good history.  Books like these serve a popular purpose and have popular appeal.  They're not intended to be serious scholarly works.  That said, we know that the authors will relax the rules of historical scholarship for blatant subjectivity.  The reader should expect that here.  We're not talking about Bernard Bailyn or Henry Adams.<br />What does amaze me, however, is the utter faddishness of Jefferson bashing.  This is one more work from a long list of Northeastern (neo-Federalist) Jefferson bashers.  Gore Vidal gave the modern Jefferson haters a foundation with BURR.  Merchant and Ivory gave us the ridiculous JEFFERSON IN PARIS.  Then Ellis himself picked up where Vidal left off with the revisionist AMERICAN SPHINX.  Then we got McCollough's over-the-top worshiping in JOHN ADAMS.  And now this.  What is it about Jefferson that still gets to all these New England and New York snobs (and plagiarists) after 200 years?  Must have been a great man, indeed.  Anyway, expect a continuation of the Jefferson-as-slave-owning-and-misguided-egomaniac theme here.<br />Generally entertaining, like a Hollywood picture, rather than historically rigorous.	2002-11-08
US	51170023	R3HKX7GS0N63RR	0375759328	780603332	Where the Bluebird Sings to the Lemonade Springs: Living and Writing in the West (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	16	34	N	N	Too romantic and exclusive a view of the West	I have the utmost respect for Wallace Stegner as a writer, but this collection of essays takes provincialism to far greater lengths than even his great works of local fiction.  Stegner's definition of the West is based on an almost arbitrary measurement of rainfall--less than 20 inches per year.  Any area that gets more than that (like Seattle) isn't the West.  And that's not all.  Cities don't count either, for the cities are just the East brought west in the form of middle-class America.  So, the West for this author is the unspoiled, unsettled arid West, which dramatically excludes huge portions of the region that properly belong to it.  If Spokane isn't the West, what is it?<br /><br />I love the region, so I appreciate this author's attempts to capture its essence.  But I can't get past the overly romantic and exceptionally patronizing attitiude of the writer.  It's as if he's saying:  I understand the West.  You don't, so I'm going to tell you.  I'm a Westerner.  You're not, so quit pretending.  I live in the West.  You don't, so stay the hell out.  The whole thing comes off as reverent, but also xenophobic.  I wish Stegner had written western history and fiction as an exploration of frontier conditions, from Kentucky to California.	2002-10-02
US	51170023	R2NN3C00YELSP3	1566634261	783834506	Sunstroke: Selected Stories	Books	3	5	25	N	N	Reactionary melodrama, the Rachmaninov of literature	The Nobel Committee was not immune from political correctness in 1933, as the Literature Prize has been a political game for AT LEAST the last 50 years.<br /><br />Bunin won the 1933 Nobel Prize for Literature, but we all know that the Literature prize is primarily a political statement (in this case against the Soviet Union that had banned Bunin's work).  Bunin's stories are beautiful, lyrical, like poetry written in prose form.  In fact, many of his shortest stories are nearly written in blank verse.  However, there is a reason why Bunin is \\"underappreciated.\\"  His stories are highly melodramatic and frequently are artificially infused with explicit sentimentality.  If Rachmaninoff had written short stories rather than piano concerti, this is how they would have looked.  These stories lack the emotional and psychological subtlety of Chekhov and Turgenev, writers to whom Bunin is frequently compared.  They are as socially reactionary as they are mushy:  The story considered to be Bunin's masterpiece, \\"The Gentleman from San Francisco\\" is a patronizing fable about how the (particularly American) bourgeois habit of purchasing nobility is futile.  It's like Citizen Kane with a nasty dose of anti-American bourgeoisie bashing.  After all, Bunin believed that the nobility were the source of all good in Russia, and the American super-rich were nothing more than pretentious fools.  Though the imagery can be lovely, you never get passed the idea that Bunin forced much of what he wrote for the good of the \\"people.\\"  He was an aristocratic artifact.<br /><br />Beautiful, anti-American melodrama.  That's what you get here.	2002-09-09
US	51170023	R1LJGG7GKO45N1	1893956032	504479648	A Language Older Than Words	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Realists beware	I'll try to make this short.  This is a wonderful book, but it's not perfect.  It comes from the long tradition of idealism born in the American West which includes such figures as Josiah Royce, Ezra Pound and John Steinbeck (though its subect matter is like none of those writers').  It is indiscretely confessional in its personal tone.  It is violently radical in its political tone.  And it is unapologectically idealistic.  Jensen doesn't so much offer any practical solution to the problems he describes as he proposes theoretical responses.  It makes the book an interesting philosophical statement rather than a manual for action.  Stoics and realists will truly hate it, if they get past the Preface.  That reminds me:  The first chapter, called \\"Silencing\\" is the best in the book and will (or should) knock the breathe out of you.  Generally, the writing is lyrical and has the ability to make you swoon.  Jensen's creation is so original in that it combines lyricism with propaganda.  Most of the world's great revolutionaries were far too scientific to pull off a style even remotely close to this.  Read it, but keep your head about you.	2002-09-03
US	51170023	R27S6CCVVRFDHL	0674008286	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	4	3	8	N	N	A mostly political biography	I really wanted to give this excellent biography five stars (as if my opinion really matters), but I just can't get over the fact that this is a largely political work.  Of course, Lenin was a largely political man, but he was a man nonetheless.  Service, who is a professor of political science, does an exceptional job with the details of Lenin's political development and his infamous accomplishments, but his handling of the more personal aspects of his life and the much more subtle cultural and historical contexts feels incomplete.  It's about time that an important biography of Lenin FINALLY suggests that the execution of his brother Alexander probably led to his utter obsession with bringing down the Romanovs.  Lenin, above all, was more consumed with destruction, with replacing Old Russia with something new and &quot;scientific&quot;, than with elevating the lives of the oppressed.  Service makes this point a centerpiece of his thesis and I think he's dead on.  I only wish he'd done a more careful exegesis of Lenin's psychological motivation for his radicalism.	2002-08-27
US	51170023	R5SBT6C0V7PUQ	1570030871	284626536	Tales of the South by William Gilmore SIMMs	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The Washington Irving of South Carolina	Ever read Washington Irving?  Liked it?  Then, by all means, read these amazing stories.  We would do a great service to American literature to simply REMEMBER this amazing, gifted writer, but the politically-correct powers that be have decreed that we forget him.  That, unfortunately, is in vulgar neglect of his contribution to the Romantic literature of the time, which was well known both domestically and abroad.  And Simms was no country bumpkin:  His stories are inspired by the most important Romantic and Classical works of the past.  Read this book.  You'll be glad you rediscovered one of America's greatest men of letters.	2002-05-30
US	51170023	R3A9BBH4RRKT3L	0674006135	160288803	The Structure of Evolutionary Theory	Books	4	19	27	N	Y	Not paradigmatic, but still awesome.	I bought this book for several reasons.  First, I'm a committed Darwinist.  Can there be a more complete affirmation of that theory than what Dr. Gould has given us here?  Second, I wanted to see for myself the kind of thing I will never be able to do.  Reading this book is a bit like watching Michael Jordan play basketball:  We can only appreciate it.  We'll never be able to do it.<br /><br />Still, I came away from this thing with some concerns.  Oh no, don't get me wrong:  I'm completely and utterly convinced.  The thing is, it's essentially a refinement--a decoration--of Darwin's original theory.  Doesn't that make Darwin the genius here?  I don't think Gould is giving us anything that is truly earth shattering.  He's devoted 1,400 pages to convincing us that Darwin was right, with some significant modifications mind you.  Wonderful, dazzling, awesome, but not a paradigm shift.<br /><br />And that brings me to my real gripe, and I hope Dr. Gould will forgive me my whining.  This book to me is all too indicative of the problem with science:  It's all about the evidence.  Evidence, evidence, evidence!  Endless, endless evidence.  So, where are the great bursts of human intuition and insight?  Where are the daring questions?  Where's the lucidity?  It seems to me that hyper-specialization and the be-all and end-all of scientific proof makes for volume after volume of saying things other people have already said.  So, this book is the scientific method taken to the extreme, as it usually is.  We know that Dr. Gould has spent many years proving things, but he's so startlingly intelligent, I wish he'd spend some more years speculating.<br /><br />That said, we have a history-making publication here, but I don't believe it's nearly as profound as Darwin's original statements.  Darwin dared to speculate.  He dared look at things INDEPENDENTLY.  He dared to dwell on the fringes of science.  Dr. Gould should think about those things.  He need not follow in the shadows of Darwin.	2002-04-29
US	51170023	R4WIX1LT9SYOU	0399148353	890709141	Leaving Katya	Books	2	3	7	N	Y	Not much of a novel.	OK, I know this story first hand, literally.  I was stunned by the author's grasp of the details, of his ability to state bluntly the utter banality of so many of the things American men find so irresistable about Russian women.  However, the story itself is as dry as dust.  Greenburg's attention to the codification of the American-man-meets-gorgeous-Russian-woman-and-falls-madly-and-irrationally-in-love story is noble, but as the relationships themselves, the story is completely lacking in literary merit.  It's old hat now.	2002-04-29
US	51170023	R3QLQJBGUNIBKX	0791444422	428480591	Wandering God	Books	5	39	44	N	Y	Should be a classic of Western Philosophy	If you know Dr. Berman by way of The Twilight of American Culture, hit the reset button, for this is a far different animal.  This book is his masterpiece, and is a work of comparative anthropology.  The thesis here is far too complex for summary, but suffice to say that it is forcefully argued and thoroughly researched.  I imagine that this work is less popular with academic philosophers, psychologists, and anthropologists than it perhaps should be for several subjective reasons.  Its central argument is based on Freud's concept of the self, which has become deeply unfashionable in recent years.  Also, Berman offers an iconoclastic interpretation of Wittgenstein that steps on the toes of quite a few important philosophical thinkers.  You'll also find elements of Camus' concept of absurdity and William James' pragmatism (i.e. truth, independent of empirical evidence, is what \\"works\\" rather than what \\"is\\"), though I don't believe the similarities are intentional.  The author has a tendency to bend the evidence to his conclusions and can, at times, piece elements of others' works into a collage of quotations and statements that appears to offer little original thought, but those cases are exceptional rather than the rule.<br /><br />Dr. Berman has written an enormously important history of human hierarchy that all subsequent writers have taken for granted.<br /><br />Basically, Dr. Berman believes that human discovery of a \\"self,\\" rather than simply as as physical entity, introduced hierarchy into civilization.  All religion today is based on a hierarchy, spiritual to earthly.  Is this just an accident?  How did civilization, and its promotion of sedentary life, contribute to a social hierarchy that dominates our culture today, worldwide?<br /><br />You'll have to fight yourself with Dr. Berman's arrogance, because he is quite sure of his conclusions.  If you agree, you'll think he's a modern-day prophet.  If you disagree, or if you think Dr. Berman's colloquial arguments lack depth, you'll find much to criticize.<br /><br />All in all, it's difficult to come away from this book unconvinced.  It's difficult to read it and not think that Dr. Berman has his fingers (and mind) on the truth, as much as it may offend.ents lack depth, you'll find much to criticize.<br /><br />All in all, it's difficult to come away from this book unconvinced.  It's difficult to read it and not think that Dr. Berman has his fingers (and mind) on the truth, as much as it may offend.	2002-02-27
US	51170023	R3EK43LKE6O42Z	0940322765	121501835	The Reckless Mind: Intellectuals in Politics	Books	4	34	43	N	Y	Can you say &quot;Plato&quot;?	Ok, Ok.  This is a good book.  First, some of the dirty facts:  If you believe in objective truth, you'll like this.  If you don't believe in objective truth, you won't be convinced otherwise by its largely Platonic argument.  Essentially, Lilla borrows Plato's concept of rational moderation to show how a few of the well-known 20th century European intellectuals became victims of their own tyrannical appetites.  Both rational and irrational behavior are inspired by Eros, but only the rational position, with proper moderation of the tyrannical and irrational appetites, can inspire moral responsibility.  There's really nothing new in the ethical exposition, but the biographical portraits are good.  The real gems are Lilla's lucid presentation of key points in the philosophies of each of the respective characters in question.<br />Lilla is describing the flip-side of the argument Tony Judt offers in The Burden of Responsibility.  He offers essentially the same conclusions from a different point of view.	2002-01-22
US	51170023	R1YZDCDGTBMCTQ	067400633X	936848573	Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline	Books	3	32	36	N	Y	Good thesis.  Tedious exposition.	This book is not what you think.  It's not so much a U.S.News-style ranking of public intellectuals, per se.  It's even less another of a never-ending stream of &quot;dumbing-down&quot; theses intended to convince us that things were so much better during the Roman Empire.  No, it's not that.  It IS an indictment of academic specialization.<br />More specifically, Posner uses a greatly oversimplified microeconomic model to show how the &quot;market&quot; for intellectual products forces would-be public intellectuals into the academy.  Within the academy they are encouraged to specialize.  Here's the kicker:  Academic specialization undermines the intellectuals' ability and motivation to make meaningful statements about broader public matters.  The results are a largely academic intellectual debate dominated by esoteric, jargon-ridden theses which fail to engage the general public and are frequently dubious in merit.<br />Worth a read if you're interested in such matters but, beware, the presentation itself is tedious and repetitive.  The best bit is the chapter debunking modern, &quot;jeremiad,&quot; decline literature.  The polemical material of Bloom, Rorty, and Berman doesn't hold much credibility with Posner.	2002-01-16
US	51170023	R3872RBXV4B9UH	0940450348	59148241	History of the United States of America During the Administrations of Thomas Jefferson (Library of America Series)	Books	5	34	43	N	Y	Best diplomatic history of early America	Even though it was written in the 1880s, this is the best history of early American diplomacy yet written.  It is important to mention that this is primarily a diplomatic history, and it certainly reflects the author's interest and family history in foreign affairs.  Adams has meticulously researched all matters of State and diplomacy, but he has reserved the topics of culture, economics, and education for far more subjective analysis.  It becomes obvious early in the text that Adams is highly deferential to Great Britain, and the young American republic is constantly compared and trivialized, in contrapuntal regularity, against the great European powers.  Adams has a lot to say about America's poverty, provincialism, and anti-intellectualism when compared to England, France, and Russia.  American culture cringe pervades the text.  While frequently accurate, he drives the point to excess:  America becomes somewhat of a play-thing for the imperial ambitions of Europe.  We're treated to page after page of material on the British ambassadors.  In short, this is probably the kind of American history we would have expected Henry James and T. S. Eliot to have read, the kind that gets all the facts and dates right but can't conceal the author's sincere desire to be English.	2001-11-15
US	51170023	R2THWA599ZDY5G	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Essential reading in these troubled times.	Naipaul's essential thesis here is not complex, but it does have the ability to offend.  Naipaul comes from the largely Western school of separation of Church and State.  In other words, he believes that a healthy, complete human culture is always complemented by religion, but should NEVER be dominated by it.  He illustrates this point by examining the lives and psychologies of individuals in the so-called &quot;conquered&quot; Islamic states, with a particular emphasis on suggesting that religious dogma creates an incomplete and unhealthy human condition in its defenders and practitioners.  In this way, Naipaul's thesis is similar to that presented by Milosz in THE CAPTIVE MIND:  Only when freed from dogmatic captivity is the human mind capable of transcending our most basic appetites.  If you are comfortable with that idea you will probably like this book.  If you are uncomfortable with that thought, you're probably going to hate it.	2001-10-16
US	51170023	R3N074LJDA57QU	0374199639	64824201	The Metaphysical Club : A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	94	96	N	Y	Magnificent.  Popular scholarship of the highest order.	Have you ever wondered what replaced Transcendentalism?  The Civil War found American intellectuals receptive to less idealistic discourse, and a loosely related group of ideas we now call \\"pragmatism\\" became the foundation of post-Trancendentalist thought.  If this sounds interesting to you, read on.<br /><br />This book, a blend of biography and intellectual history, truly has it all: a profound, original thesis; a beautiful narrative style; and a clear presentation of complex ideas without diluting their intellectual gravity.  The book does for William James, Wendall Holmes, Charles Peirce, and John Dewey what Tony Judt's wonderful THE BURDEN OF RESPONSIBILITY did for Blum, Camus, and Aron--rescues critically important intellectual figures from obscurity and presents them in a graceful human form.  The analysis of both character and theory is appreciative and appropriately irreverent.  Menand wants you to see them and their ideas in the context of a society tolerant of both eccentricity and fanaticism, and in the context of a society that was fundamentally altered by the Civil War.  Beautifully done, and an exhilarating read.<br /><br />A warning to specialists:  This book is intended for a general audience.<br /><br />A warning to the politically correct:  You may be offended.<br /><br />A warning to regionalists (like myself):  It's not as simple as Yankee = the good guys, Southerner  = the bad guys.<br /><br />The only criticism I have is slight.  Menand neglects the contributions and counterpoints of Josiah Royce, the lone idealist, to the intellectual community of the period he is describing.  He more than makes up for it with vivid portraits of such forgotten figures as Louis Aggasiz, G. Stanley Hall, Eugene Debs, etc...<br /><br />If this one doesn't pull down the Pulitzer I'll be disappointed.	2001-06-18
US	51170023	R1FW7KCOEM307I	0679753354	83284681	The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences	Books	4	181	218	N	Y	Seminal work of French Structuralism	As much as Foucault would have hated the label, this book is one of the core texts that anchor the French Structuralist school of thought.  So, what does that mean exactly?  Well, it means that style is as important, if not more so, than substance.  So let me begin with style.<br /><br />The style of the book is what you're likely to notice most immediately.  The Structuralists are famous for subordinating lucidity and logical rigor for what is sometimes called \\"vast erudition.\\"  Vast erudition is that set of decidedly French stylistic elements that include such frequently beautiful techniques as intentional obscurity of meaning; undisciplined, looping, rambling metaphors which go on for pages and pages; flowery, arcane rhetoric; and more neologisms than the French Academy could possibly record.  In short, Foucault uses 100 words to say what he could have said in 10, but it is great fun to read despite its difficulty.  Trust me, if you didn't get it, probably he didn't intend for you to.  And what critics like to hail as erudition is sometimes nothing more than purposeful obscurity and literary name dropping.  Daniel Boorstin is as erudite as any French Structuralist, but he is infinitely more lucid.<br /><br />Now, there's the substance.  Foucault's essential thesis is that science is a front for an unconscious network of order relating ALL branches of human knowledge.  The thesis is, if anything, an epistemological statement.  Typical of modern French scholarship in general, this book cuts a wide interdisciplinary swath through arts and sciences to show how seemingly unrelated fields of human knowledge--biology, economics and language, for example--are really empirical manifestations of the same human process.  At the heart of the matter is the notion that all of human knowledge is socially constructed, ignorant of the submerged \\"order of things\\" that joins it under the surface.  Hence, we must discover this order by means of digging, by means of \\"archaeology.\\"<br /><br />So, don't worry about deciphering every sentence.  Once you get the essential ideas (they're in the Preface), sit back and enjoy Foucault's collage of words and thoughts.  He was brilliant, and questioned the most sacrosanct concepts known to humanity.  He pushed the frontiers of the humanities, which is a lesson all humanists should consider.about deciphering every sentence.  Once you get the essential ideas (they're in the Preface), sit back and enjoy Foucault's collage of words and thoughts.  He was brilliant, and questioned the most sacrosanct concepts known to humanity.  He pushed the frontiers of the humanities, which is a lesson all humanists should consider.	2001-06-14
US	51170023	R1SNMTSC5A5TB2	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	3	11	N	N	Good biography from the Plymouth Rock School	Plus:  As much about Abigail as John.<br /><br />Minus:  Why does Adams/good always seem to degenerate into Jefferson/bad?  Can't we like them both?<br /><br />This is a well written biography, no doubt about it.  Adams is something of an under-appreciated founder in the American canon, but let us not forget the Alien and Sedition Acts.  He's not the man we project on him today, but more of a Pat Buchanan of the late 18th century.<br /><br />OH, OUCH!  That hurts, doesn't it?  But it's true.  Jefferson was the open-minded, \\"let your brain fall out\\" liberal of his day, and Adams was the \\"fortress America\\" conservative of his day.  What this biography comes down to is an essential argument in American history:  Do we promote an open or closed America?  The argument, and its eventual outcomes, are the most important hinges in American history.  The author brings us right up front into the dialogue of this critical American issue as John Adams struggled with them as Diplomat and President.<br /><br />This book is essential reading for all students of American Studies.	2001-06-05
US	51170023	R2WSDD2H3FIV5M	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	3	17	25	N	N	The Oliver Stone of Literature	This book is wonderfully entertaining, but its historical element is largely revisionist.  Vidal does little to disguise his biases other than placing them in the mouth of Aaron Burr.  Vidal uses Burr's memoirs as a forum for deconstructing American creation mythology which, had Vidal's regionalism not been so dramatically betrayed, might have served as a useful literary device.  Instead, one comes away from this book wondering how anyone from south of the Mason-Dixon line, faced with overwhelming ignorance and egoism, could have possibly contributed to American independence.  One wonders why Washington, Jefferson, and Madison ever lived.  To call Vidal Whiggish would be a gross understatement, as he makes it a point to skewer most of our important Federalist founders, particularly those from Virginia.  And while one can respect the author's intent to establish a realistic rather than mythical setting, his poetic license comes across as heavy-handed and intentionally revelatory.  Aaron Burr was a lot less like Gore Vidal than the author would like to admit, I'm quite sure.<br />Read this book to be entertained, but don't read it to learn American history.	2001-04-14
US	51170023	RECPHCXWYIQY5	1570030405	861505128	Doctor to the Dead: Grotesque Legends and Folk Tales of Old Charleston	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Folklorists rejoice!	Enjoy Edgar Allan Poe, Henry Grady and George Washington Cable?  Don't miss this much under-appreciated masterpiece by the man who started the Charleston Renaissance.  Bennett and DuBose Heyward are to Charleston what George Washington Cable was to New Orleans, and Bennett's command of local \\"color\\" literature is evident here.<br /><br />As a collection of stories culled from the oral tradition of the Low Country's important Gullah culture, this book is an exhilarating alternative to the infinitely heavy and guilt-ridden tomes of Toni Morrison (Bennett was also from Ohio) for any serious student of Afro-American and Southern history.  It includes original sketches of landscapes and portraits of black corroborators which firmly ground the stories in local history and folk culture.  But this is not just a book for regionalists!  One can't help but be impressed with Bennett's phenomenal interest, dedication, and erudition even if he was a bit self absorbed.  The new edition, published by the University of South Carolina, is introduced with a lucid piece by Professor and Librarian Thomas L. Johnson.	2001-04-01
US	51170023	R3G5EVTGN7JN1	0195025938	484407285	The Growth of the American Republic (Volume I)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Classic of the &quot;Plymouth Rock&quot; School.	This book is a classic deserving of that title.  What is it that makes it truly extraordinary?<br />Lucidity, clarity, and topical broadness make this work particularly impressive.  Though it looks like a standard college freshman text, it doesn't read that way.  You're not likely to read it cover to cover like a novel, but it's perfect for grabbing off the shelf after having watched that jingoistic Hollywood production of American history, or as a primer for indulging in more penetrating American history scholarship.<br />It's not perfect.  The regional sympathies of the primary author (Morison) are revealed from time to time.  This book belongs to the Plymouth Rock School of history--the branch that teaches that everything lasting and good in American history came to New England around 1620, after St. Augustine, after Roanoke, after Jamestown.  The 1840 map of the United States given on pg. 447 makes a gross error in misrepresenting the population of New Orleans, third largest city in the country at the time.  Something tells me that Boston or Philadelphia would have never been overlooked in such a case.  Serious students would do well to consult Woodward, Ayers, or even Philips with regard to Southern topics.	2001-03-29
US	51170023	R16JSXFXUTALYR	0679763309	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	3	471	539	N	N	Not your everyday manic-depressive.	This is a wonderful memoir.  It is a truly brave and beautiful confessional piece, and it is a brilliant portrait of the human condition, of those essential and elusive things that make life worth living.  The book, however, is not perfect.  As much as I hate to be critical--I understand Dr. Jamison's enormous pain and her sense of personal pride and entitlement--it is impossible to read this book without becoming aware of the author's position of phenomenal social, professional, and economic advantage.  This memoir, in a sense, is manic-depressive illness for the charmed life.  I can't help but wonder how the reader is supposed to feel about the lonely and the poor, who also happen to be terribly ill.  Most who read this book are not going to have access to the very best psychiatrists; have the unswerving support of a loving family; have the pleasant memories inherent to a blissful childhood; have the opportunity for grand tours of England while on year-long sabbatical leave; have the benefit of an understanding, dynamic, and brilliant professional community; have a world-wide network of well educated and well connected friends; possess the steely work ethic inspired by a WASPy military upbringing; or be blessed with the God-given intellectual talents and physical beauty so helpful to a thriving love life.  Many readers won't even have medical insurance.  Granted, this is a memoir and not a self-help guide.  It is not intended to be a popular manual, but the narrative can be both sympathetic and shamelessly conceited, both poetic and aloof.  I'm proud of Dr. Jamison for her achievements, and I'm truly delighted that she has made a wonderful life for herself despite her exceptional difficulties.  But I can't help but think that some readers might be a bit resentful.	2001-01-09
US	51170023	R2MAT4O9PRYBD	041517323X	855177005	Collapse and Recovery of the Roman Empire (Routledge Key Guides)	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Slim volume, brilliant thesis	The book taken for what it is--a broad consideration of the topic presented in the form of a brief essay--can only be considered a masterpiece.  Now.  Be warned.  This is just an essay, not a detailed treatment of any particular Imperial device.  The emphasis here is not on details of military activity, of social life, of religion.  The idea of the book is this:  Rome was falling apart in the early third century due to the juxtaposition of many complex factors--porous borders, rigid bureaucracy, weak leadership, factional politics, economic stagnation.  Strong emperors, such as Diocletian and Constantine, reversed the trends by recognizing them and instituting reforms that restored the confidence of the citizens and strengthened the Pax Romana.  This book is a masterpiece for that simple insight.  It is a vivid portrait of how cult of personality, therapeutic politics, popular religion, and self-serving consumer economics can soothe the anxieties of a vast empire otherwise consumed with corruption and ennui.  Doesn't this scenario sound familar?  Grant's ability to grasp the archetypes amid the chaos is astonishing, and his presentation is lucid and powerfully argued.	2000-12-02
US	51170023	R7I0DWY0DB2I9	0393048799	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Painful, but too true.	I don't want to duplicate what has already been said below, but I think  it's important to point out one particularly valid idea in Dr. Berman's  book:  He debunks the commonly held myth that economic prosperity and  intellectual excellence are corollated.  So often we hear how American  economic prosperity is evidence of our superior intellectual achievement.  In fact, according to Dr. Berman, economic prosperity (a myth in itself) is  a function of a techno-corporate conformity and mindless consumerism that  together stifle the natural intellectual curiosity so important to a  healthy and balanced human condition.	2000-09-01
US	51170023	R1HS1TWCAT127A	0316309079	98599958	Philistines at the Hedgerow: Passion and Property in the Hamptons	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	A uniquely American Aristocracy	The Hamptons, Beverly Hills, Palm Beach, Vero Beach, Buckhead.  If you've been to these places you've seen it--the distinctly American phenomenon of super-wealth attempting to forestall spiritual death with ostentatious  materialism.  That's what this book is about.  Though America's  super-wealthy frequently have European aristocratic pretenses, money alone  does not nobility make.  The author makes this point to us through a  sometimes not-so-careful critique of specific super-wealthy Hamptonites.  He could have just as easily written about one of these other enclaves of  flashy, superficial elegance.	2000-06-20
US	51170023	R1BJUKPYJM6VII	0385495439	717942094	The Colony of Unrequited Dreams: A Novel	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Good writing, phenomenally boring characters.	First, the good news:  The writing is wonderful.  The physical imagery is what you would expect in an epic so attached to place.  The story is based on historical events, so it's possible to learn something about this  amazing (and frequently neglected) Atlantic province as you read.  Not only  is it possible, it's unavoidable.<br />Now, the bad news:  The story can be  tedious at points, plodding along with the details of Joey's political  ambitions and career.  Then, there is the problem of the characters.  I  can't stand them.  Granted, this is perhaps a failing of the real persons  involved rather than that of the author himself (or perhaps it's personal  subjectivity), I found little humanity in either Fielding (the deformed,  drunken, spiteful, nihilistic tramp) or Smallwood himself (the  self-righteous, superficially altruistic, culturally chauvinistic geek).  Neither character showed me even the slightest spark of a soul.  I felt as  if I were being constantly beaten in the face by either H. L. Mencken or  Eugene Debs.  The fact that I despised the characters so much is testimony  to Johnston's talent with characterization.<br />Also, minor typos (repeated  articles, missing conjunctions) in the early chapters are annoying.<br />I  would say that this is a good book if you want to learn something about the  history of Newfoundland, but I don't think it offers much in the way of  portraying the subtle interactions of human manners.  Maybe I just missed  it.	2000-05-23
US	51170023	R2MSQMKV6WXK0S	0312146957	873574527	The Old Forest and Other Stories	Books	5	26	29	N	N	About people, not just the South	I have trouble with assessments of great writing that tend to subordinate every concept to setting.  We know that Chekhov wrote about the Russian provinces, Cheever wrote about WASPs in New England, William Trevor writes  about lower middle-class Ireland, and Faulkner wrote about Mississippi.  We  also know that Taylor writes about the upper South (not the so-called  &quot;Deep South&quot; that some others have mentioned).  So what?  What  many of us realize, but often fail to mention, is that Taylor is writing  about the human condition, as all of these great writers have.  I'm a firm  believer in the notion that the setting is incidental--a product of the  world Taylor understood.  So, as we can say with Chekhov, Cheever, and  Trevor, Taylor writes about people.  We appreciate these stories because  they are about us, whether we're from Maine, Mississippi, or Maryland.  If  you have any belief in a universal human condition (whatever that may be),  in the truth inherent to archetypal stories about people, you'll find that  the setting only serves as the metaphorical framework in which the author  works.  It's our own problem if we have trouble shedding our regionalism,  not Taylor's.  Also, this book is not an obituary to the death of any  particular culture, but a celebration of life and universal human  relationships.  How can &quot;The Gift of the Prodigal&quot; be about  anything but that?  Who would say that &quot;The Gift of the Prodigal&quot;  is about Charlottesville, VA?  So, by all means read this book.  Don't be  turned off by its Southern setting or its WASPy characters anymore than you  would be turned off by Chekhov's rural Russia.	2000-05-02
US	51170023	RINYXV7252Y0M	0691025851	584186638	Kiev	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Penetrating scholarship.  Fascinating history.	I love to see Americans write European history.  Not so much for the reason that we can't do it well as much for the reason that too often we refuse to do it well.  In an age of American history scholarship dominated  by revisionism, politically correct relativism, and otherwise trendy arcane  trash, this brilliant analysis is like fine wine after years of Budweiser.  Hamm chooses a national/ethnic context in which to tell the story of how  these various peoples transformed Kiev from a forgotten backwater to the  cosmopolitan capital of Ukraine.  All of this took place in the matter of  about 100 years--a blip on the radar screen of Kievan history.  But what a  century!  Poles, Jews, Russians, Ukrainians, Greeks, the Decembrists, art,  education, music, literature, commerce, war, pogroms, conflagration,  disease, and revolution.  It's all here, told in the perfect combination of  lucidity and attention to detail as to both fascinate and instruct.  Isn't  every great work of history supposed to do that?  I know I've come across  something special when I feel like I've actually lived through a particular  history after reading it.  We all become residents of Kiev here.  One thing  that prospective readers should note:  Hamm likes numbers.  The book is  full of statistics, but it never completely relies on them.  The author  always uses numbers to illustrate his point, but he never tells the story  itself with numbers.  Though the topic may seem to be a bit esoteric,  Hamm's thesis suggests that we should consider understanding urban history  as a history of people rather than of institutions and infrastructure.  Wonderful stuff, even if you have no interest in Ukraine.	2000-04-28
US	51170023	R2WVLC9TLMJNYI	0226414183	258404016	The Burden of Responsibility: Blum, Camus, Aron, and the French Twentieth Century	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	Monumental figures as human beings.	Though this book is not intended to offer three character sketches per se, it has done more to bring these great twentieth-century Frenchmen to life for me than any other work I've read.  Judt is able to bring some  continuity to the idea of intellectual integrity by not only describing  what each of these men stood for but also what they stood against.  Yes,  they all stood against Communism (with a big C), but each of them stood  against elements of political and intellectual fashion in defense of their  own convictions as well.  Blum stood against malice.  Camus, against moral  relativity.  And Aron, against intellectual ignorance and conformity.  Together they did more to defend the human condition from political and  intellectual tyranny than all other twentieth century French intellectuals.  This is a powerful look at how the temptations of intellectual and  political affiliation need not take the place of rigor and conviction.  And, to be honest, it's lucid presentation of each character nearly brought  this one to tears.  Deserves to be read by a general audience, or anyone  who continues to be mystified by these great French figures.	2000-02-21
US	51170023	R2PUXPLX31BE8F	0375407081	4435858	For Common Things: Irony, Trust, and Commitment in America Today	Books	5	13	20	N	Y	Like it or not, you'll see more of this name.	I'm a bit puzzled here.  I've read forty reviews of this thoughtful and penetrating thesis and I can't recall a single insightful comment, not even  from the pundits at Kirkus and Booklist.  I DO know this:  Purdy went to  HARVARD.  He's from WEST VIRGINIA.  He's YOUNG, God forbid.  And, more  importantly, he's ferociously intelligent and sincere.<br />This book is not a  biography, so why are so many of you concerned about it?  I've a suspicion  that many people feel so threatened by Jed's formidable bio that they  become defensive immediately.  Here's a hint:  Read this book for what it  says.  If the only thing you can remember about it after finishing is that  Jed went to Harvard, you need to learn to read past the jacket blurbs.  Here's another hint:  erudition, social concern, and curiosity are all good  things.	1999-10-28
US	51170023	R2RA5O227171IX	0812920880	918893895	Millennium; Winners and Losers in the Coming Order	Books	2	7	20	N	N	Even less correct now than in 1991.	Attali's intriguing thesis--the microchip will allow for a reshuffling of the world geopolitical power structure and promote the growth and social dominance of \\"nomadic men\\" with few ties to place or fellow  man--is consistently undermined, and eventually rendered ineffective, by  three problems:<br /><br />A pervasive and thinly disguised national  chauvinism;<br /><br />Grossly inaccurate macroeconomic forecasting; and<br /><br />A  pendantic and condescending Foreward by Alvin Toffler which insists that  we, as provincial and intellectually vacant Americans, must read this book  simply because Attali is a stunning genius eager to save us from our own  ignorance.<br /><br />I will give this book one more star for each of the problems  the author chooses to correct in future editions.	1999-08-20
US	51170023	ROI054VKMUM2I	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Living History, not Revisionist History	Kaplan has not composed this work in order to reveal his own biases.  He has written a book which attempts to explain the origins of certain stereotypes.  Any book about Balkan history and culture would be severely  incomplete and inaccurate if it attempted to be politically correct by  avoiding description of the dominating economic, cultural, and political  rivalries.  Kaplan's book is essential because it attempts to explain the  mind of the irrational nationalist.  Kaplan WANTS to bring the banality of  ethnic nationalism to the reader.  He insists on stereotypes because, in  many cases, they're valid.  Ask yourself this question:  Does the average  Serb or Croat contemplate the subtle political ramifications of his/her  ethnic affiliation as a university scholar probably would?  No.  He is much  more likely to wave the flag ang grab a rifle.  Kaplan explains why this is  so.	1999-04-26
US	51170023	R3JWEVSEE2CP90	0679728562	60019933	The Captive Mind	Books	5	94	104	N	N	Communist Intellectual is an Oxymoron.	Never have I read a more vivid and convincing thesis defending the virtues of intellectual freedom.  Though frequently difficult to read--the author (or the translator) shifts frequently from first to second to third person  (and back again) in mid paragraph--the work is central to understanding not  only the intellectual seductiveness of the &quot;rule of philosophy&quot;  but, more importantly and generally, the dangers of intellectual  conformity.  Milosz's dissection of intellectuals' attraction to leftist  social systems becomes a defense of open society in both the intellectual  and general communities.  We come to understand most fundamentally the  concept of intellectual freedom, and how the elimination of it becomes the  ultimate goal of authoritarian leftist politics...  despite claims  otherwise.<br />Many intellectuals believe that their interests are best  served by socialism or communism.  Milosz explains why they are frequently  fooled into believing this, and why many of the very components of  socialism and communism that intellectuals most covet--freedom from vulgar  market forces and important roles in the administration of society--are the  very forces that strip them of their liberty.  He illustrates this process  with four character examples.<br />Though written in the throes of the Cold  War, this work could not be more timely.  And though it is written as an  attack on Communism (with a big &quot;C&quot;) and is rife with often  knee-jerk anti-Russian rhetoric, it's arguements can be easily applied to  all forms of totalitarianism, both left and right.  Mostly, Milosz is  attempting to defend the chaotic human condition from idealogical molding  and, considering contemporary encroachments of politics, government, and  religion into the lives of human beings, this book is as valid and  important today as it was in 1953.  Not to be missed.	1999-03-24
US	51170023	RXR5EY30W8IHP	0140265090	466900935	Where Peachtree Meets Sweet Auburn: A Saga of Race and Family	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More biography than history.	It would be incorrect to call this work a comprehensive history of  Atlanta.  The author skips, or lightly brushes, many events and periods  important to the development of modern Atlanta.  He barely mentions  Reconstruction, prohibition, the impact of railroads, airports, highways,  etc...  The book is, however, a startling biography.  As you might expect,  he reports heavily on topics and events which were of particular importance  to the development of the Dobbes and Allen families, and happened to be  important to Atlanta as well.  Though Pomerantz is a journalist, his  writing style is lyrical enough to be interesting, but beware--this book is  dense with facts.  You're going to read a lot of numbers.  Where the book  succeeds most obviously, however, is in it's analysis of race issues  throughout Atlanta history.  You can expect this book to dispel some of  your most widely piqued stereotypes.	1998-10-16
US	51170023	R24ZOTEVW0898R	0679451900	237601957	An Empire Wilderness : Travels into America's Future	Books	3	3	7	N	N	I wish America were more like France	I love Kaplan's writing.  He's an intelligent and insightful journalist,  yet his most recent effort is full of high-minded intellectual cliches.  We've heard much of this before:  How suburban sprawl undermines feeling of  community; how the global economy is increasing tension between the  &quot;haves&quot; and the &quot;have nots&quot;; how unchecked competition  is creating social dysfunction; how technology has a way of eroding quality  of life; etc...  All this may be interesting when considered as a  &quot;wish list&quot; for highly educated urban professionals, but its not  at all new.  I find most of these theses to be highly reactionary.  Suburban life doesn't have to be as banal as we are lead to believe.  Cars  and computers represent progress.  I'm not likely to subscribe to the  notion that just because St. Louis is not as &quot;dense&quot; as it used  to be that it somehow becomes less of a city.  So, if you're looking for  someone to confirm the idea that the United States would be better off if  it were more like France--with soft social services, natural skepticism  about the benefits of technology, and dense old cities with lots of winding  streets and sidewalk cafes--Kaplan provides that here.  But, I've seen it  all before.	1998-10-01
US	51170023	R1ZV13KU8SADTB	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	You had better enjoy nature.	I'm not sure what to make of this work.  I certainly appreciate portions  of it, but I didn't particularly like it.  Its heavy with long descriptions  of natural landscape, animals, and squalor, but rather short on society,  history, and manners.  One should take note of the title:  Cold Mountain.  This book is about the land, and the struggle of those little men and women  who live on it.  The main character, however, is always the land.  Frazier's writing is interesting, though some of his metaphors seem a bit  strained.  I found the author's obsession with squalor, insalubrity, and  poverty to be oppressive.  The image he paints for us is damn ugly and,  though obviously intended to approach realism, a bit exaggerated.  The  story is raw.  The salon life of ante-bellum Richmond is nowhere to be  found here.  Read this book for the richness of it's natural description,  not for social or historical insight.	1998-09-29
US	51170023	RR55OCRYNESMW	0312025599	851123842	The Civilized Engineer	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Critically Thinking Engineer	To call this book a classic would be stretching the metaphor a bit.  It's  audience is, perhaps inappropriately, far too small.  But, for those  engineers who may wish to understand their academic training and subsequent  practice as more than a vocational exercise will appreciate Florman's  thesis, and may even be profoundly changed by it.  Florman takes great care  in describing how engineers, as creative artists, are not immune from the  so-called &quot;liberal arts&quot;, and can actually benefit from them.  Engineers need critical thinking.  The author was able to teach me that,  even though I don't practice engineering, the intellectual stimulation I  felt while studying it is an invaluable asset.  That stimulation encouraged  me to continue--to satisfy that innate curiosity independent of subject.  Technology has an intangible element that Florman captures and describes  beautifully.	1998-09-22
US	51170023	R1OE1BMRY1RQAE	0345346602	380487726	A Summons to Memphis	Books	5	9	12	N	N	No Old South here!	This book is, above all, a novel of manners about a conservative Southern family struggling to maintain social relevance.  It's a story that continues today is many parts of the South,  No, no, this is not a quaint story of a life extinct.  This is not \\"lost cause\\" romance.<br /><br />These types of characters do, in fact, still exist.  One must remember while reading Taylor that he is not writing of the \\"Old South\\", but of the New South pseudo-aristocrats who still long for the good old days at the country club.  For evidence of this type of life, go to Mountain Brook (Birmingham), or Buckhead (Atlanta), or Charleston, or Savannah, or Summerville (Augusta), or Myers Park (Charlotte), or Alexandria, or New Orleans, or Mobile...  where your father's surname is more important than your profession.  It's still there.  Taylor is not writing about ancient history, but a life that has become increasingly marginalized.  He's trying to preserve something.  He preserves it beautifully by contrasting the old and the new, Nashville and Memphis, backward and forward.  It's really a deeply penetrating social analysis of modern white and wealthy Southern Life, with all it's assorted misdemeanors.	1998-08-10
US	51170023	R386UICILRTHKM	0345317467	783324808	The Russians	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Russia before Gorbachev, remember?	For anyone interested in how any of it's citizens can possibly feel nostalgia for the former Soviet Union, or why so many others chose a political path towards democracy, this book is indispensable.  Much of what is occurring now in Russian politics and culture can be traced back to conditions presented here.  This is a magnificent portrait of a country which didn't allow portraits.  Those willing to overlook a few Cold War cliches have to agree that this book is a classic.	1998-07-31
US	51170023	RR1O3A82OUPNF	0679736883	443101004	The Radicalism of the American Revolution	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The Big Picture of the American Revolution	When I finished reading this superb thesis, I considered it to be the best synthesis of the issues relating to America's transformation from paternal colonialism to egalitarian democracy I had read to date.  Wood argues successfully that the American Revolution is an often neglected event in world (eurocentric) history that deserves a place among the French, Russian, and Industrial Revolutions.  Then, after digging through my other colonial history books I discovered something:  Wood cheats.  Well, not really, but he exaggerates.  In order to emphasize his thesis, he needs to offer a \\"before and after\\" picture of America that is quite wide.  He does this by presenting a somewhat incomplete or \\"biased\\" view of the North American colonies before the Revolution.  He frequently makes reference to the insignificance of the colonial cities, economy, aristocracy, institutions, etc... when compared to the mother country.  While such a comparison may lead to obvious conclusions, it presents an artificially diminished view of the colonial society and institutions when considered independently.  True, Philadelphia is not, as was not, comparable to London, but that in no way diminishes its contribution to world history.  If the colonies were so insignificant, why assemble an army across an ocean to maintain possession?  Hofstadter presents a much more objective portrait of colonial conditions.	1998-07-07
US	51170023	R33W0I7KRZV4LM	0679724362	891382350	The Road from Coorain	Books	3	10	17	N	N	A childhood of sheep, colonial erudition, and sexism.	This highly lauded memoir left me slightly disappointed.  While the author's life is interesting enough, and her willingness to share it allows us all the experience of childhood in the Australian bush, what begins as an engrossing descriptive narrative eventually ends as an engrossing descriptive narrative with an agenda.  The author's explanation for her unexpected rejection from the Australian Foreign Service is that of simple sex discrimination.  This superficial politicking seems inappropriate for a narrative that had, up to this point, presented each respective situation with subtle wit and razor sharp, substantive social insight.  Innocence lost, perhaps?  Or maybe scapegoating?  She admits that the two male classmates selected in her stead were more than qualified candidates, each with well defined intellectual and professional goals.  She even tells us that her own professional goals were all too nebulous, and that she had come to discover that a career in academics may not be at all inappropriate.  Yet the episode with the Foreign Service serves as a platform for the introduction of petty feminism into an otherwise sparkling text.  Its as if she's saying, &quot;I'm perfect.  Unfortunately, I'm a woman.&quot;  As I read from that point forward I felt that twinge of feminist exclusivity which seemed to alienate me from her experiences because I'm a man.  That's too bad, because all people (men and women) understand and experience feelings of loss, rejection, and achievement.  Its part of being human, appropriately independent of gender.	1998-05-21
US	51170023	R1WRC9ZBCYX6YV	0394753666	606072682	The Fatal Shore: The Epic of Australia's Founding	Books	5	45	48	N	N	A response to the idea of &quot;Culture Cringe.&quot;	Sham history is still history.  I've read reviews of this fine piece of scholarship, including some presented on this very page, which attempt to undermine its validity by claiming that much of its content is anecdotal; based on folk tales and hearsay.  I can only respond by noting that this fact adds to the color and elegance of the text.  Few historical theses can claim to be both scholarly and entertaining.  This one is.  It reads like a novel.  It instructs like a textbook.  Its arguments are convincing and substantive.  Its stories are humorous and horrifying.  My only disappointment, which is actually only indirectly related to the book, came from the text of Mr. Hughes' statement to the faculty of the University of Melbourne upon his receiving an honorary Doctor of Letters.  He apologized for his lack of formal education.  No apologies are necessary.	1998-05-13
US	51170023	R2ZVEKBY7NGZOJ	0394703170	962910322	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life	Books	5	38	51	N	N	Emotion over reason.  Action over contemplation.  Freedom over manner.	Most Americans bristle at the very notion of \\"theory,\\" and there are deep-seated historical reasons for that.  This book is an exploration of those reasons.<br /><br />This is a beautifully written thesis on how pragmatism has come to dominate intellect in America by way of concepts implanted early in the development of the national psyche.  Those concepts - Protestant evangelicalism, Jacksonian egalitarian democracy, commercial culture, and the progressive school of public education - have moulded American culture in a way that makes it somewhat antagonistic to quiet contemplation or rigorous examination.  Particularly in the realm of reformed Christianity, both the first (1750s) and second (1820s) Great Awakenings were movements that firmly established the superiority of emotional experience over rational deliberation.  The Unitarian reaction to the second Great Awakening, and the Transcendentalist movement it created, resulted in the first native, organized intellectual movement in the United States.<br /><br />If these topics sound interesting, this book is for you.  It should be required reading for Americans and non-Americans alike who wish to understand the origins of certain unflattering stereotypes concerning American mainstream culture.  The author discusses each of the previously mentioned topics, but fails to address two critical issues.  First, he has a tendency to universally equate \\"intellectual\\" with \\"academic\\" throughout the book.  As America is a nation of so-called \\"self-made\\" men, we are also somewhat a nation of \\"self-made\\" intellectuals.  An American intellectual needs not necessarily have his/her position validated with university credentials.  To his credit, the author never explicitly states this in his definition of the intellectual, but it is easily inferred.  Also, the author seems to artificially subordinate the role of America's formidable intellectual community to that of the anti-intellectual mainstream.  After reading this book, one may get the impression that Americans lack any sort of intellectualism at all.  His points are well taken, but perhaps taken a bit far.  Essentially, the United States is a country where one has a right to remain completely uninformed.  Education is not a requirement.  Those who want it get it.<br /><br />This thesis is common in American cultural studies, and has enjoyed something of a renaissance in recent years.  Veblen explored it in THE THEORY OF THE LEISURE CLASS back in 1899.  While affluence generally cultivates the intellect in Europe (aristocrats patronized the life of the mind as an element of social prestige), in the New and Developing worlds it seems that affluence breeds complacency and conformity (the wealthy patronize the life of mass consumption as an element of social prestige).  Whether we're too busy or too superstitious to be smart, this book establishes a strong foundation upon which the chorus of alienated American intellectuals concerned about the inherent conflict between modern commercial democracy and intellectual elitism can be built.may get the impression that Americans lack any sort of intellectualism at all.  His points are well taken, but perhaps taken a bit far.  Essentially, the United States is a country where one has a right to remain completely uninformed.  Education is not a requirement.  Those who want it get it.<br /><br />This thesis is common in American cultural studies, and has enjoyed something of a renaissance in recent years.  Veblen explored it in THE THEORY OF THE LEISURE CLASS back in 1899.  While affluence generally cultivates the intellect in Europe (aristocrats patronized the life of the mind as an element of social prestige), in the New and Developing worlds it seems that affluence breeds complacency and conformity (the wealthy patronize the life of mass consumption as an element of social prestige).  Whether we're too busy or too superstitious to be smart, this book establishes a strong foundation upon which the chorus of alienated American intellectuals concerned about the inherent conflict between modern commercial democracy and intellectual elitism can be built.	1998-04-29
