US	51177889	R1H5M7B2HZHSJX	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	293	306	N	N	The Post-Modern Fairy Tale	Along with the rest of the civilized world, my wandering memories often lead me back to two of my favorite childhood movies, \\"The Neverending Story\\" and \\"The Last Unicorn.\\"  Practically all I could remember of the latter was some skull yelling \\"Unicorn! Uuuunicorn!\\"  That image and that voice have left a lingering discomfort in the back of my mind for years.  A while back, I found a little time to investigate Michael Ende's novel, \\"The Neverending Story,\\" and just recently, I managed to come across a copy of \\"The Last Unicorn,\\" and I couldn't help but read it.  In both cases, these novels have more than repayed my childhood memories, giving my adult mind philosophical and literary substance as well as real joy.  Peter S. Beagle's 1968 novel, \\"The Last Unicorn,\\" is much more than a simple fantasy story - though it is rife with magicians, mythical creatures, and all of the customary trappings.  It is even more than a complex fantasy story - somehow Beagle enchants us into a timeless place where nothing seems unusual - \\"The Last Unicorn\\" creates a space for magic in our modern lives.  <br />The novel begins as a unicorn overhears two hunters riding through her wood - the hunters debate whether unicorns exist anymore.  The unicorn begins to wonder if indeed she is the last of her kind, and goes in search of other unicorns.  She is caught sleeping by Mommy Fortuna, owner of the Midnight Carnival, who displays the unicorn for a time alongside a real harpy and a motley bunch of meek, hopeless animals who are made, through Fortuna's magic, to resemble other dangerous mythical beasts for the entertainment of travellers, tourists, and townsfolk.  Schmendrick, a fairly useless magician, and an assistant to the Midnight Carnival, recognizes the unicorn for what she is, and freeing her, they set off together to find the unicorns.  Once they are joined by a woodland dweller named Molly Grue, the company is complete. Their search brings them to the domain of King Haggard, who, along with the demoniacal, but eerily incorporeal Red Bull, seems to have something to do with the disappearance of the unicorns.<br />Though the novel is a quest, there isn't much real movement - the novel moves from the unicorn's wood, over land to Haggard's castle by the sea, which is where almost half of the novel takes place.  The more significant quests here are ones of self-discovery, as the unicorn, Schmendrick, and Prince Lir, King Haggard's heir, must all try to figure out who they are, what they want to be, and how to accomplish their goals without being consumed by existential despair.  Related questions the novel poses include speculations on the nature of the hero, on the metafictional nature of the fairy tale as a genre, and what the difference is between evil and self-interest, between love and hatred.  \\"The Last Unicorn\\" is also a rumination on the nature of interpersonal (or interspecies) relationships, and is in spots as concerned with ecology and the environment as J.R.R. Tolkien's \\"Lord of the Rings.\\"  <br />However, far and away, the most compelling facets of \\"The Last Unicorn\\" for me are Beagle's minor touches, minutiae that some people might miss on a first reading.  Seemingly meaningless conversations, like the one between the hunters which begins the novel, between Captain Cully and his disaffected latter-day Robin Hoods in the forest, or between a 'married' pair of blue jays betray a depth and attention to detail and a real artistry in Beagle's literary workmanship.  They alert us, as certainly as Tolkien's work does, to the fact that we, the novel's readers, live in a prosaic world, divested of magic and enchantments.  Beagle's novel shows that creating, living in, and sustaining a fantasy world can be as much work, and can involve as much pain as our own normal daily lives.  Indeed, one amazing quality of \\"The Last Unicorn\\" is that it hardly differentiates between the normal modern world and that of the fairy tale.  One reviewer mentions that the novel takes place in the Middle Ages - is it at all astonishing then, to hear Cully at one point mention the \\"field-recordings\\" that will one day be made of his oral poetry while he himself eats a taco?  <br />\\"The Last Unicorn\\" has endured for almost 40 years because it manages to imbue things like \\"field-recordings\\" with a kind of magical quality that seems as natural as talking birds and butterflies.  Beagle also reminds us that we are each heroes of our own stories - whether we stick to the literary conventions of genre or not.  The inclusion of subtle anachronisms and metafictional commentaries like these clues us to Beagle's art - the creation of a new kind of fairy tale, one which attempts to make our own world, our own lives, sources of almost limitless wonder and joy, as well as of continuing epic challenges.	2004-01-21
US	51177889	R2IR1PPXT2X252	0451521900	525889886	Pere Goriot (Signet classics)	Books	4	40	41	N	N	"I Am in Hell, and I Have To Stay There."	Honoré de Balzac's 1834 novel, \\"Le Père Goriot,\\" is a novel of strange and fascinating power.  As the doorway into his interconnected cycle, La Comédie Humaine, it presents as much welcome to interested readers as Dante's fateful \\"abandon all hope...\\" entrance to Hell in the Divine Comedy.  \\"Le Père Goriot\\" gives us a fallen world, driven by self-interest, where all ties of genuine human feeling seem to be relegated to a no longer existent past, or to the rarely-glimpsed pastoral countryside.  Balzac presents the stories of Eugène de Rastignac - a young law student from the southern provinces, Jean-Joachim Goriot - a former pasta merchant who gave all he had as dowry for his two daughters, and Vautrin - a man who lives and works in shadows. Balzac's novel illustrates the lengths and depths that these three, and everyone around them, go to in order to secure even the most fleeting happiness in the moral wasteland of Paris about 4 years after the fall of Napoleon.<br />The novel begins with our introduction to Maison Vauquer, a boarding house with a crumbling plaster statue of Cupid in the yard, which is home and prison to the respectably indigent.  Goriot has lived in the Maison Vauquer under the increasingly unsympathetic gaze of Madame Vauquer and her boarders for almost 10 years - wasting away, Goriot has become a figure of fun for the house, coming to be known teasingly as \\"Old Goriot.\\"  His tragic affection for his two well-married daughters, Delphine de Nucingen and Anastasie de Restaud, has driven him out of their homes, and into a state wherein his only joys come from seeing them from afar, and mortgaging what remains of his fortune to assist them in financial difficulties.  Into the Maison and Goriot's life comes young Rastignac, whose lack of fortune fuels his desire to enter the fashionable world of Parisian high society.  Here, Rastignac meets Vautrin, who offers the youth a possible means to do so - means both underhanded and deadly.<br />One of thenovel's great questions is the great Biblical dilemma - what does it profit a man to gain the world if he must lose his soul in the process?  The novel's three main characters, but particularly Rastignac, illustrate the dilemma from different vantage points.  For Vautrin and Goriot, their choices were made long ago, and Balzac's work with them concerns the results of lives organized around self and others, respectively.  The novel's primary concern is with Rastignac, who is continually in the process of weighing his options - in a world in which there is little grey area, will Rastignac opt for a life of good or evil, of self-interest (as with fellow-boarders Mlle. Michonneau and M. Poiret) or service (as with fellow-student Bianchon)?  <br />Balzac sets relationships, particularly those concerned with family, up for consideration in the novel.  We see bonds created by birth, as well as by social class and wealth; of course, family and money are rarely inseparable, and certainly are not mutually exclusive for the novel's characters. Rastignac is in Paris studying the law only because of the financial sacrifices being made by his family in the country.  Rastignac's kinship with Madame de Beauséant provides him with a taste of the seeming luxury of Paris.  Victorine de Taillefer, a motherless young girl at the Maison Vauquer, makes a fruitless yearly application to her hard-hearted father, who has disowned her completely.  As Rastignac interacts with and becomes part of Goriot's life and that of his fellow-boarders, we are encouraged to consider the role of the family as it relates to society.  If family is Balzac's basic social unit, then how do we regard the family constituted by Goriot and his daughters? The one made up of the \\"guests\\" of the boarding house? That of Vautrin's Ten Thousand Society?<br />I have barely scratched the surface of Balzac's novel. Its engagements - literary, sociological, and moral, are extensive.  Balzac's engagements with literary andphilosophical models, from Shakespeare to Rousseau, are worth taking notice of, as are his proposed \\"three attitudes of men toward the world: obedience, struggle, and revolt.\\"  For a novel with seemingly clear moral polarities, it is difficult to say who are the heroes and who the villains in \\"Le Père Goriot.\\"  Though the novel is by no means a simple satire, getting swept up in the novel's overt sentimentality may say as much about the reader as it does about the novel's characters and situations.  Balzac's anonymous narrator offers continually biased judgments, which can cloud the reader's ability to remain objective.  Any way one reads it, \\"Le Père Goriot\\" is a terrific novel - and the invitation to enter Balzac's uninviting world is well worth accepting.	2004-01-20
US	51177889	R19QO4JKJ5QRN4	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	More Personal, Intimate Experience of Arrakis	Frank Herbert's 1969 novel, &quot;Dune Messiah,&quot; like its predecessor novel, &quot;Dune,&quot; is really much less about action and adventure than it is about the personal effects of power.  Actually, &quot;Dune Messiah&quot; has no real action, no real excitement - unless you find mental trauma, philosophical quandaries, and musings on the relationships between government and religion exciting; fortunately, I do.  Even the novel's title is a mental excerise in irony - one of the questions that permeates this book, as it did toward the end of &quot;Dune&quot; is can one young man balance the unbelievable burdens of being a man of the people, an emperor, and a god while trying to be an individual and a husband?  Can Paul Muad'dib, reputed savior, save even himself?<br />From its beginnings, &quot;Dune Messiah&quot; really concerns a plot between the Bene Gesserit sisterhood, the Spacing Guild, and the Bene Tleilax, to find a way to compromise the theocracy of Muad'dib, whose Jihad and its adherents have been sweeping the universe during the 12 years since the overthrow of House Corrino's Emperor Shaddam IV depicted at the end of &quot;Dune.&quot;  The Bene Gesserit want to regain control of Paul Muad'dib's bloodline for their breeding program, the Spacing Guild want easier access to Spice, produced only on Arrakis, and the Bene Tleilax want a piece of Muad'dib - literally - to clone and control their own Kwisatz Haderach.  As in the first novel, there are plots within plots, and the conspiracy is only ever a loose confederacy, each party with their own competing interests.  Further, these parties seek to manipulate an increasing sense of dissent amongst the native Fremen on Arrakis, many of whom feel left out or disenchanted by the changes in their lives since the beginning of the Jihad, particularly with their unsatisfying movement from the margins of the empire they helped depose, to the margins of an empire they helped to create.  The Bene Tleilax initiate the action of the novel, goading the dissident Fremen and presenting Muad'dib with a clone, or ghola, of his slain teacher, Duncan Idaho, who at the appropriate moment, is to murder Muad'dib.  <br />Muad'dib, meanwhile, has his own problems - he remains, for good and ill, the melancholy, self-absorbed, confused young man that  he was at the end of &quot;Dune.&quot;  He is prepossessed, throughout the novel, with the feeling that his knowledge of the future utterly controls him.  While he longs for a normal, secluded life with his concubine, Chani, and the chance to have and raise children, his daily involvement with the myth that has sprung up around him gives him an ever-increasing sense of isolation and alienation from his humanity.  He has become almost unbearably fatalistic as he is forced to embrace as he shrinks from his role as deified Messiah and from his visions of the future.  Indeed, the problem and potential of vision is a preoccupation of the novel - from the metal eyes of the ghola to Muad'dib's eventual physical blindness.  <br />As the novel progresses, it becomes clear that Muad'dib's journey is out of his own hands, and wisely, rather than subject the reader to hundreds of pages of Muad'dib lamenting his fate, Herbert turns his focus to other characters - specifically the ghola Duncan Idaho and Muad'dib's pre-born sister Alia - and their struggles.  Indeed, the ghola is the most intriguing character in &quot;Dune Messiah&quot; as he attempts to discover the latent memories of his former life and to fight against his own Tleilaxu programming.  The Tleilaxu contingent overall form the most consistently interesting figures in the novel.  From the conspirator Scytale, a Tleilaxu Face Dancer (shape-shifter) to the gholas - Hayt/Duncan Idaho, and the dwarf Bijaz - the Tleilaxu, with their use of technology to change themselves and to effect change in others is a sinister contrast to Muad'dib's Fremen efforts to alter the ecology of Arrakis and the structures of power in the universe.<br />What &quot;Dune Messiah&quot; lacks is a sense of scope and urgency.  &quot;Dune&quot; gave us a new universe, one which hinted at compelling connections to our own, but which &quot;Messiah&quot; does not take any pains to develop.  The personal, internal struggles of Herbert's characters in &quot;Messiah&quot; are almost too self-involved - we lose touch to a great extent, with larger issues, with the epic feel of the original novel.  Finally, Alia's degeneration into Abomination is not really chronicled in any satisfactory detail.  These criticisms aside, &quot;Dune Messiah&quot; is a good, but not a really fitting sequel to &quot;Dune&quot; - worth reading certainly, but no match for the power, originality, and depth of its predecessor.	2003-11-15
US	51177889	RXRD0Z7YJ5XRF	0140437878	698965388	Heartbreak House (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	"He is not dead: He is only asleep"	Bernard Shaw's 1919 play, \\"Heartbreak House,\\" is a bitterly angry black comedy - a satire against a British imperial culture in the first two decades of the 20th century that gave rise to the excesses of the first World War, and which could (and would) do a lot worse if given the chance.  Consciously drawing on a healthy and proud tradition of Irish satirists, including Jonathan Swift and Oscar Wilde, Shaw brings us into a declining English country house, which seems to be run by no one in particular for a party of apocalyptic (in)significance.  The house is home to the Shotover family, the eighty-eight year old patriarch Captain Shotover, his daughter, Hesione Hushabye, and her husband Hector.  Over the course of three acts, Shaw explores the 'fascinating' qualities and inhabitants of the boat-like house, and its broader implications as a kind of ship of state.<br />The play opens as a young woman, Ellie Dunn, arrives at the house, ostensibly the guest of Hesione.  With no one to greet her, and her bags left on the front porch of the house, Ellie finds her way into the boat-like drawing room, where she meets the indefatigable Nurse Guinness, and the inscrutable Captain Shotover, who is in the midst of his latest plan to usefully dispose of the hoard of dynamite he keeps in the garden.  Gradually, the party fills out as Hesione, Hector, Lady Utterword (nee Shotover), Randall Utterword (the melancholy brother-in-law), Mazzini Dunn (soldier of freedom and Ellie's father), and Boss Mangan (capitalist and Ellie's intended) arrive at this bizarre house.  Hesione plans to break off Ellie's engagement to the much older Mangan, and free her to follow the course of romance, while Utterwood and Hector variously pursue their sister-in-law.  Of course, Shaw does not let his characters, nor his audience, off with a simple comedy of manners.<br />Shaw uses the play to expose the play of civilization, in which we all have a part, but with much more comic viciousness than Wilde, and with (possibly) more brute directness than Swift.  The most explicit butt of Shaw's circuitous and rapid-fire dialogues is Mangan, whose gruff capitalist demeanor and pursuit of money and reputation is ultimately the guidepost of society as Shaw envisions it.  As the lowest common denominator, Mangan's crudity reflects upwards at the socially climbing Ellie, the egregious nonchalance of Hesione, and the almost intentional insanity of Captain Shotover.  Shaw implies that if Mangan and his ilk are running the show, then everyone who is not working to change it is complicit in its depredations.  Listless bohemians, like Hesione and Hector, give the lie to their apparent graces, in an effort to maintain sanity in the midst of their perpetual confinement with each other.  Lady Utterword's complaisance belies her loveless existence, and Mazzini Dunn's servility is the mark of an idealist who has given up his ideals in favor of subsistence.  Is the refinement we everyday pretend to, nothing more than a thin veneer for the animal instincts that, if broached, would expose us as Swiftian Yahoos, as Shaw implies in his Preface, or as mere children, left in charge of ever more dangerous means of annihilating everyone and everything? <br />The tool of satire, in the hands of a master like Shaw, compels us to examine our own lives, and the ways we live them.  Does Shaw call us to action, or merely to honest self-reflection?  Either way, even at this late date, nearly a century later, we are still living in \\"Heartbreak House\\" - and Shaw's challenge to us is more urgent than ever. Ultimately, Shaw's message is that we are not dead yet - only asleep; can we awaken before it is too late?  If we are monstrous enough to blow up the preacher's house, in the early 20th century or the early 21st, then each of us must be our own Savior - a notion which should be as empowering as it is horrifying.	2003-10-20
US	51177889	R2EA078750X607	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man	James Joyce's first novel, \\"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, published in 1916, sets out, in the form of a fictional (auto)biography of Stephen Dedalus, the programme of Joyce's artistic vision.  An elliptical work by any definition, \\"Portrait\\" proceeds by fits and starts, offering the reader glimpses, sketches, portraits, if you will, of defining moments in the formative years of Stephen Dedalus, from earliest childhood through his education at university.  While certainly the specific story of a single individual in late 19th and early 20th century Ireland, Joyce manages to produce a narrative that is personal, national, and even universal in its significance.<br />As much as \\"Portrait\\" can be said to begin anywhere, the text itself begins with childhood reminiscences, from a uniquely immature voice and with the universally recognizable fairy tale entrance, \\"Once upon a time...\\"  That the novel takes as its main point of view the consciousness of Stephen Dedalus, this seemingly fanciful beginning clues the reader into envisioning the tale to follow as a modern take on the developmental narrative.  The goal is not the rescue of a woman, although women feature prominently and problematically; the enemies to be conquered are Stephen's own immaturity, his own doubts, and the stagnant traditions of family, political, and religious expectation; the prize sought is not gold, but an idea of the self upon which Stephen can make his way in the world.<br />\\"Portrait\\" is divided into five sections or chapters, each detailing a different phase of Stephen's quest for self, or as the title suggests, for becoming \\"the artist\\".  The first part has Stephen face his first and longest lasting challenge - his roots; specifically, his family and the political and relgious tensions that hold them together and threaten to rend them asunder, as well as his early school years, wherein he must come to terms with outside authority.  The second details his movement to Dublin, and hisattempts to deal with various adolescent difficulties: peer pressure, his father's declining circumstances, and the awakening of sexual desire.  From this point on, \\"Portrait\\" has set the main themes that Stephen must wrestle with in order to grasp his place in the world.  <br />Stephen's quest leads him through short careers as a sensualist and as a religious devotee before leading him to art.  In order to fulfill his destiny as an artist, Stephen must, as all good fairy tale children, wander the world alone, living as his cunning and wits guide him - away from his family and even his country.  Hence the universalizing aspect of \\"Portrait\\": like most people, Stephen Dedalus must finally leave familiarity for the dangers and promises of the outside world.  Stylistically, Joyce's narrative mirrors the developmental level of Stephen at each of these five crucial moments of his life - from the short attention span of a child through the nearly pedantic focus of the theorizing artist, Joyce's technique filters through an adult consciousness the various stages with a grace that makes a largely third person novel seem as though it emanates from a palpable personality.  As Virginia Woolf saw, even in the early 1920's, Joyce's \\"Portrait of the Artist\\" was at the forefront of a new way of writing about the very essences of human life in its day, and remains a landmark text of modernism.	2003-10-18
US	51177889	R1YQGHUDC8W517	1591020905	260934705	Treatise of Man (Great Minds)	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Descartes' &quot;Treatise of Man&quot;	René Descartes' 1629 &quot;Treatise of Man&quot; is a piece of natural philosophy worth noting and reading for a few reasons.  Know that I have a long standing antipathy for Descartes for my own personal reasons.  In the &quot;Treatise,&quot; Descartes attempts to explain the workings of the human body by drawing an explicit comparison between a hypothetical &quot;machine&quot; which operates, ostensibly, &quot;like we do&quot;.  Descartes spends the best part of the &quot;Treatise&quot; outlining the ways that this machine's senses are informed by the singly material operations of the cardiovascular and nervous systems.  <br />Working on what basically amounts to as a heat-model, Descartes discusses how blood in the heart, and what he calls animal spirits in the brain cause the human machine to function just &quot;as we do&quot; - without the supposed necessity of the soul.   He does not dispense with the idea of the soul, however - after all that would get him excommunicated faster than he could have said &quot;cogito ergo sum&quot; - he merely dances around the issue by saying that the major difference between the human machine and &quot;us&quot; is that we have a soul located in its seat, the brain.  His purpose, again, is to show how a soul is not necessary to the bodily functions of man - that our bodies all operate the same, and according to rational physical principles.<br />Descartes can be seen in the &quot;Treatise&quot; as a major contributor to late 17th and early 18th century notions of human passions.  To this he contributes the omnipresent image of the filaments with which he says our nervous systems are comprised.  Certainly we have all heard phrases like, &quot;tugging on your heartstrings&quot; - this popularly arises out of philosophies like Descartes, who proposes that our physical reactions - to pain, pleasure, etc. - are all the results of these filaments, or cords, within our bodies, which external stimuli act upon, sending messages to our brains.  This affects not only reaction, but perception, and even the manifestations of our emotional responses to the external world.  <br />Sight and Touch are Descartes' major focuses in the realm of human sensory perception.  Noteworthy in the &quot;Treatise&quot; are Descartes' many example illustrations, scattered generously throughout the text and abundantly provided in this Prometheus Press edition of the &quot;Treatise&quot;.  From the mundane illustration showing how a person becomes aware of the pain of a fire, to the more unusual visual perception illustrations of a person in profile with one eyeball on top of the other, to the most interesting illustrations of the central &quot;Gland H&quot; in the brain, which becomes erect and points around in response to stimuli - Descartes' illustrations are, for me, the most fascinating part of the &quot;Treatise.&quot;  <br />One problem I have with Descartes' &quot;Treatise,&quot; is the absolutely arbitrary way he delineates human perception.  In Descartes' machine-logic, our perceptions follow and focus on whatever most immediately presents itself to the mind.  In this schema - one could be talking to a friend, and completely forget about the friend if a butterfly crosses our line of vision - the ability to focus on one thing for a sustained period of time is something Descartes does not discuss.  It leaves the reader, or at least this one, wondering if sustained focus is the province of the soul, which he does not discuss in this work, or if not - how he managed to write so much with the perpetual threat of distraction.	2003-10-04
US	51177889	RD3JHDJELOHTX	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Waters of Your Homeworld	Frank Herbert's 1965 novel, &quot;Dune,&quot; is a work of startling depth and of lingering relevance to current readers.  Creating a civilization out of bits and pieces of European feudalism, Arab and Islamic traditions, startlingly modern geopolitics, ecology, and an advanced handling of cultural mythopoetics, Herbert's &quot;Dune&quot; is far more than a simple &quot;sci-fi&quot; adventure tale.  Like JRR Tolkien's earlier &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; saga, Herbert fashioned a novel which has endured for 40 years because of its ability to appeal to so many readers in so many different ways.  <br />&quot;Dune&quot; begins when the 15 year old heir, Paul Atreides, is preparing to leave his lush homeworld, Caladan, with his father Duke Leto and his mother, the Bene Gesserit concubine Lady Jessica, for their newly assigned fief, the desert planet, Arrakis (also known as the eponymous Dune).  We are constantly reminded by the narrator and the characters that the political balance between the noble Houses of the Landsraad confederation is highly precarious - that plots within plots and feints within feints are to be found in any kind of political or economic maneuvre.  Accordingly, the Atreides takeover of Arrakis is in a constant state of danger.  The family they are replacing, the Harkonnens, led by the scheming evil of the nefarious and repulsive Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (who for good measure is coded as sexually-deviant) plots with the family of the Emperor to disgrace and unseat House Atreides.  When the Imperial-Harkonnen plot succeeds in murdering Duke Leto Atreides, and forcing Paul and his mother into the deep desert, the true action of the novel begins.  <br />The most valuable thing in Herbert's universe is the Spice, Melange, which is only found in the deserts of Arrakis, guarded, surrounded, and even produced by the dangerous giant sandworms. It is at the heart of many of the novel's conspiracies and power plays.  In Herbert's anti-techonology universe, Spice enables mysteriously deformed members of the Spacing Guild to warp space for interplanetary travel; it opens the mystic order of the Bene Gesserit to extra-sensory perception; and most tellingly for &quot;Dune,&quot; it gives the indigenous population of Arrakis, the Fremen, blue-within-blue eyes.  It is to the Fremen that Paul Atreides and his mother must appeal, and even depend, to retake Arrakis.  The water-zealous Fremen, living in the deepest desert regions, believe that Paul is the Mahdi, the savior of their legends.<br />Caught between politics and religion, Paul Atreides (known to the Fremen as both Usul and Muad'dib) becomes, if he wasn't before, the focal point of the novel.  In a novel in which plots, breeding programs, and martial training seem to argue for the ability of people to control their own destinies, Paul cannot seem to escape the notion that the path of his own life is horribly fated.  As the Fremen religious figurehead, Muad'dib, Paul spends the greatest part of the novel tortured by the idea that he cannot avoid the destiny he is hurtling toward, envisioning a future where his sect will terrorize the universe in an unstoppable jihad.  <br />Of course, there is much more to say about Herbert's &quot;Dune,&quot; but I think it appropriate to mention just one more thing which really appealed to me in the novel.  Along the lines of fate/free will, each chapter of the novel is tellingly prefaced by quotations from books, either about or related to the history of Muad'dib (note, not &quot;Paul&quot;), most of which are attributed to Princess Irulan (the daughter of the Emperor when the action of the novel begins).  The prefatory excerpts, one of which actually begins the text of the novel, perform an intertextual struggle with Paul's own self-doubts throughout the novel.  While Paul wonders if he can change his own fate, Irulan's excerpts, written from a time clearly after the action of the novel, seem to confound his attempts, adding a melancholy sense of fatalism to Herbert's novel.  For me this renders Paul-Muad'dib less an epic hero than a tragic victim of a tale much larger and longer than this novel could contain.  Brief allusions to our own Earth as part of the novel's distant past should cause us to reflect even further, as Tolkien's &quot;Ring&quot; novels do, on our own individual relationships to each other, to our world, and to our relationships to power.  For an ostensibly &quot;sci-fi&quot; novel to do all of this, for me, is remarkable.	2003-10-04
US	51177889	R1O7FYVNR5O92Y	0192840320	300158367	The Man of Feeling (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	The Man of Feeling	Henry Mackenzie's 1771 novel, &quot;The Man of Feeling,&quot; is a preeminent locus of a number of mid-to-late eighteenth-century discourses: sentiment, sensibility, sympathy, and moral philosophy.  A fragmentary work, &quot;The Man of Feeling&quot; is ostensibly a biography of one Mr. Harley, written in tribute by his friend Charles, and put together by an anonymous editor.  Harley is a man of the lesser gentry, propertied, but not wealthy.  His greatest concerns revolve around his heightened ability to sympathize with and bring comfort to people in distress.  The multi-layered framework of the narrative places its readers at an interesting distance and requires us to judge the various narratives, and the protagonist, for ourselves.  <br />The novel begins somewhat abruptly with an introduction, in which the manuscript of &quot;The Man of Feeling&quot; is discovered on a hunting expedition - a village curate has been using its pages as wadding to stuff ammunition into his gun.  Immediately we are assaulted by the notion that this man of the cloth has little regard for the work that we are about to start reading.  Already, the hermeneutic that we use to interpret Harley and his sentimental adventures is split - are we as readers expected to sympathize ourselves with Harley, or to regard him in the callous manner of the curate?  The editor, who rescues the work from its ignominious fate, seems to think otherwise - and presents us with 19 chapters (which are non-continuous) and a handful of fragments sometimes accompanied by his own interjections.  <br />What results is a hodge-podge of scenarios in which Harley encounters people in really pitiful states.  His attempts to assist the insane, the indigent, prostitutes, decrepit soldiers, prisoners, fortune tellers, and his conjectures on the practice of slavery give us more a sense of character studies and views of human interaction than any kind of real plot.  Through these scenarios, Mackenzie examines social, political, and economic issues, as well as a range of gender relations within those frameworks.  <br />Also, the more I immerse myself in sentimental fiction, the more I wonder what the role of travel is supposed to be in the genre.  Harley is goaded by his aunt, and one of his neighbors, Mr. Walton (who is also father of his primary love interest), to make a voyage to London in search of a property grant to extend his own fortunes.  Of course, much like any cautionary eighteenth-century tale in which a naive young country woman ventures into the degraded metropolis of London, Harley's London expedition is a series of misadventures and rude awakenings that further cause us to question the role, the usefulness, the propriety of excessive sensibility.  Can a pure Man of Feeling coexist with the modern world, or is he an anachronism whose time has never and will never exist?  Is a modicum of self-interest necessary for survival in the social world?<br />Finally, Mackenzie's novel asks us to consider the place of sympathy and sentiment in a larger geopolitical order.  Here is Mackenzie, a Scottish author, writing about an English country gentleman, who speculates on whether India should be an imperial colony, and over the role of slavery in the West Indies.  &quot;The Man of Feeling&quot; both celebrates and criticizes a sentimental ontology - are compassion and fellow-feeling, the cornerstones of this brand of moral philosophy, practical as the basis for a life of action in the world?  As a national foreign policy?   Professors Bending and Bygrave's introduction and critical bibliography to this Oxford World's Classics edition provide a treasure trove of information for further study and a springboard for research.  As much information and interest as one can find in a 119 page book, you will find in this edition of &quot;The Man of Feeling.&quot;  Excellent.	2003-09-15
US	51177889	R3VW33A7JJ9GKV	0140430210	286027010	The Expedition of Humphry Clinker (English Library)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Worth Taking the Time to Read Slowly	Tobias Smollett's 1771 novel, &quot;The Expedition of Humphry Clinker,&quot; took me almost two months to read.  The novel, a &quot;sort of novel,&quot; as Dr. Johnson once said, I think of his own &quot;Rasselas,&quot; doesn't really have a plot, which contributes to the pacing, which is slow, but highly enjoyable.  From the beginning of April through the end of November, basically from the season of planting through the season of reaping, Squire Bramble, an irascible hypochondriac of a Welshman, and his family engage upon a series of travels which lead them from Wales through England to Scotland and back again.<br />An epistolary novel, &quot;Humphry Clinker&quot; is no stranger in format to the eighteenth century - however, odd to me was the fact that none of the writers - Squire Bramble, his sister Tabitha, their nephew and niece Jery and Lydia Melford, and Tabitha's waiting woman Winifred - ever receives a response.  The letters of the Bramble expedition encompass a wide range of topics, along a range of experience and sentiment, of interaction, which itself is a veritable buffet of later eighteenth century customs, coffeehouse culture, civil engineering, agriculture, speech, fashion, science, moral philosophy, art, and manners spanning Wales, England, and Scotland, both in countryside and cityscape.<br />As such, the novel has a number of preoccupations - the social and political relations between different countries which comprised the then-British Empire - English-Scottish relations in particular are a focus, some 71 years after the Act of Union, and were pretty fascinating to me.  There are a number of references to America, and to the Native Americans, which the Scot Cadwallader Colden had written of only a few years before in his &quot;History of the Five Indian Nations.&quot;  England's own internal politics are reflected on throughout the novel.  The debate over luxury, a hot eighteenth century topic, is constantly in the background of the Bramble family's letters.<br />The letters of Squire Bramble to his doctor-friend Lewis and Jery Melford's to his college friend Wat Phillips comprise the bulk of the novel, and as with so many epistolary novels, their letters often tell us as much about their circumstances and exploits as they do about the writers themselves.  These are both heroes of sensibility, a young and an old whose ages frequently provide interesting takes on the same events.  Such can be said about the other writers as well - From the Squire to Jery to Tabitha to Lydia to Winifred - we are given a wealth of perspective and language - valuable lenses all to form our own opinions of the events, such as they are, that transpire in their travels.  Their various perspectives on two of the novel's minor characters, the eponymous Humphry Clinker and the combative disputant Scot Obadiah Lismahago (the most cosmopolitan figure among the recurring characters), confer substance, interest, and warmth upon characters who do not themselves write letters.<br />As valuable and entertaining a travelogue as Voltaire's &quot;Letters Upon England,&quot; or Smollett-rival Laurence Sterne's &quot;Sentimental Journey through France and Italy,&quot; and as simultaneously celebratory and critical of sentimentality as Henry Mackenzie's &quot;The Man of Feeling,&quot; &quot;The Expedition of Humphry Clinker&quot; was my first experience with Tobias Smollett, and certainly shall not be my last.  Empahses on religion and reason, on intellect and emotion, on the state of marriage, on the Horatian preoccupation with how to live the good life, interest in literature and culture, and an almost universal eye for satire and critique make &quot;Humphry Clinker&quot; well worth taking the time to read slowly.  It is a novel which I found both entertaining and edifying.  Surely, a &quot;great original.&quot;ily's letters.<br />The letters of Squire Bramble to his doctor-friend Lewis and Jery Melford's to his college friend Wat Phillips comprise the bulk of the novel, and as with so many epistolary novels, their letters often tell us as much about their circumstances and exploits as they do about the writers themselves.  These are both heroes of sensibility, a young and an old whose ages frequently provide interesting takes on the same events.  Such can be said about the other writers as well - From the Squire to Jery to Tabitha to Lydia to Winifred - we are given a wealth of perspective and language - valuable lenses all to form our own opinions of the events, such as they are, that transpire in their travels.  Their various perspectives on two of the novel's minor characters, the eponymous Humphry Clinker and the combative disputant Scot Obadiah Lismahago (the most cosmopolitan figure among the recurring characters), confer substance, interest, and warmth upon characters who do not themselves write letters.  <br />As valuable and entertaining a travelogue as Voltaire's &quot;Letters Upon England,&quot; or Smollett-rival Laurence Sterne's &quot;Sentimental Journey through France and Italy,&quot; and as simultaneously celebratory and critical of sentimentality as Henry Mackenzie's &quot;The Man of Feeling,&quot; &quot;The Expedition of Humphry Clinker&quot; was my first experience with Tobias Smollett, and certainly shall not be my last.  Empahses on religion and reason, on intellect and emotion, on the state of marriage, on the Horatian preoccupation with how to live the good life, interest in literature and culture, and an almost universal eye for satire and critique make &quot;Humphry Clinker&quot; well worth taking the time to read slowly.  It is a novel which I found both entertaining and edifying.  Surely, a &quot;great original.&quot;	2003-09-04
US	51177889	R3KC7P2IGOCMCI	0345376110	621065412	Blake	Books	3	12	14	N	N	A Good, But Not a Great Biography of William Blake	Peter Ackroyd's 1995 &quot;Blake: A Biography,&quot; is a good, but not a great biography of the late 18th-early 19th century poet, prophet, painter, and genius, William Blake. Ackroyd's prose is fluid and easy to follow, but the structuring of the book, while it does mostly follow the pattern of Blake's life, is somewhat inconsistent. There are chapters in which Ackroyd does nothing but profile one poem (do we really need a biographer's interpretation of &quot;The Tyger&quot;?), which detracts from the progress of his narrative. Also, there are points in the course of the book where Ackroyd seems a little too condescending to his subject, which imposes a distance between biographer, subject, and reader - my own preference is for the biographer to bring the reader into the subject's life.<br />One thing that Ackroyd is good at is allowing Blake and his contemporaries to speak for themselves on a number of topics - revealing a depth of ambivalence towards, for example, Blake's lifelong experience of visions, Blake's business acumen (or lack thereof), his hardheaded independence, and so on. Henry Fuseli, John Flaxman, John Linnell, and of course, William Hayley, to whom Blake owed his three year sojourn at Felpham - all are quoted extensively, revealing the social network in which Blake moved. Ackroyd is at his best when he is examining Blake's movements in life, from engraver's apprentice, to art student, through his life of engraving, and in outlining what he was doing to support himself while he produced his illuminated masterpieces. <br />Ackroyd falters, though, when he tries to play the intentional fallacy game - attempting to explain Blake's nearly-inexplicable works of poetic and prophetic genius by way of the events of his life. Certainly, Blake is one artist who invites such interpretations, with the fact that he attributed his method of illuminated printing to a conversation with his dead brother, Robert, and the fact that Blake incorporates figures from his own life in his works. However, while Ackroyd acknowledges that biographical interpretations are far too simplistic for Blake's works, he does it anyway. I would have much preferred Ackroyd to stick to the conditions and circumstances in which Blake worked and lived and produced his works, than his half-handed attempts at literary and artistic criticism.<br />The sheer number of illustrations - three sets of portraits, and samples of Blake's works (commercial and non) - are worthy of praise and show a discernment in selection. However, none are noted or labeled anywhere in the text, which makes for somewhat confusing reading. And there are some works which are mentioned once which are represented in Ackroyd's seleciton of illustrations; while others mentioned several times go completely undepicted. <br />On the whole though, this is an interesting biography - I found myself reading through a lot of it quite voraciously - but I think this is more a testament to the inherent fascination which William Blake's life provides on its own, than the manner in which Ackroyd presents it. Is the book worth reading? Absolutely. For the Blake novice, it provides an entrancing glimpse which should certainly lead many readers into an enjoyment and appreciation for Blake's work. For the most part, Ackroyd does justice to Blake in presenting him as a working man - like anyone - who struggled and failed to make a name for himself in his own time, but whose genius has outlasted the fame of nearly all of his own artistic contemporaries.	2003-08-27
US	51177889	R2JZ0DH0CBEJKZ	014043514X	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	54	56	N	N	One of the Most Extraordinary Novels Ever	Despite its seemingly needless tragedy, its persistently downbeat tone, and its relentlessly persecuted heroine, Thomas Hardy's 1891 novel, &quot;Tess of the D'Urbervilles,&quot; is without doubt one of the greatest novels I have ever read. And I have read a few. Tess is the only truly well-developed character in the novel, which, coupled with the fact that Hardy renders the landscape of Wessex as to make it a character itself, gives one the sense of a real struggle between humanity and nature. This, for me, is one of the great themes of the novel - the tension between nature and the artifices with which we fill our relations with other people. The beauty of Hardy's pastoral setting is never idyllic - Hardy keeps us always aware that human society, with its false moral standards and technological advancements, is ever encroaching upon the already vanished past.<br />As the novel begins, Tess Durbeyfield's irresponsible wastrel of a father is casually and jokingly informed by the local minister that he is a descendant of a long-degenerated and disenfranchised noble family, the D'Urbervilles, whose influence stretches back to the Norman invasion. This simple, careless act, nothing more than a name, wreaks such havoc upon everyone in the novel, that I'm actually having a hard time right now even looking at the title - the name itself, now having read the novel, is such a powerful condemnation of status, of privilege, of reputation, of all the injustices of English society from the eighteenth century through the time of this novel, almost the dawn of the twentieth. Sent by her nearly indigent parents, whose heads have swelled with the possibilities of lineage, Tess leaves her home in Marlott, going to claim kinship with the last apparently wealthy D'Urberville, in the village of Trantridge. There she meets Alec D'Urberville, who seduces her. The rest of this powerful novel shows Tess Durbeyfield attempting to piece together a reputable life out of a situation and a condition in which respectability is fundamentally denied her.<br />&quot;Tess&quot; is a novel steeped, perhaps even choked, with tradition - history, literature, theology, philosphy, economics - Hardy's frame of reference calls all of these to account through the course of the novel. Tess, ostensibly a simple country girl, is forced to reckon with the accumulated weight of human knowledge and thought, no small burden for a girl with only the kind of basic education available in a small rural town. As readers, we are asked to measure the applicability, the efficacy, of the Bible next to Shakespeare, next to Greek mythology next to art - to determine if any of these are capable of fathoming what it means to be human, to endure the myriad experiences of human life, both good and ill.<br />In her dealings with the changeable Alec D'Urberville, the almost-modern Angel Clare, the farm-hands Izz Huett and Marian, her poor, practically minded mother, Joan, Tess experiences so much of life, mostly of the harshest kind. For me, this is the key facet of the novel. Tess endures. Despite all of her hardships, which are hard indeed, and in the face of the worst kinds of scrutiny and deprecation, both from others and from herself, Tess exhibits a kind of composure, threshold for pain, and strength that are all quite amazing. Daniel Defoe's eighteenth-century &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; is the first character that immediately comes to mind, just in terms of comparable pluck in the face of such overweaning odds.<br />Though many may disagree with me, I think that Tess, more than simply being the protagonist of the novel, is a real heroine. She is so insistently admirable, so determined to live despite all the forces and pressures arrayed against her from the very outset of the novel, when as a 15 year old girl, she is asked to restore the family's fortunes - it is really just astounding. I regret that I had never read &quot;Tess&quot; before, but I am supremely glad that I have had thechance to do so now. A novel cannot get a higher recommendation from me.	2003-07-24
US	51177889	R4L12TNW2OYD7	0140188282	843633553	Sister Carrie (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Our Depressing Fiasco of a Country	When I finished reading Theodore Dreiser's 1900 novel, \\"Sister Carrie,\\" I wrote in the margin, \\"We live in a depressing fiasco of a country.\\"  This is to detract nothing from Dreiser's novel - it's just that the problems Dreiser outlines in \\"Sister Carrie\\" are problems, material and epistemological, that remain with us, unabated, over a century later.  If contemporary novels like Wharton's \\"The Age of Innocence,\\" Woolf's \\"To the Lighthouse,\\" and Butler's \\"The Way of All Flesh\\" signal the end of the Victorian era, Dreiser's \\"Sister Carrie\\" certainly foreshadows the preoccupations of the 20th century.  Dreiser's narrator has a detachment and yet a cynicism which inflects the story of a young girl from rural Wisconsin trying to find happiness in Chicago and New York.  <br />\\"Sister Carrie\\" begins as the eponymous heroine, Caroline Meeber, hurtles forth on a train from Waukesha, Wisconsin, to her sister in Chicago.  Ostensibly, she is going to find a menial job and support herself under the protection of her sister and her sister's husband. On the train, she meets a young salesman, Charles Drouet, who is captivated by her.  Arriving in the growing metropolis, Carrie has a world of difficulty adjusting to the drudgery of working and living with her joyless relatives.  As the novel gets underway, with industry too consumptive of her individuality and her ideals, Carrie is swept off by Drouet, becoming his mistress, and leaving her sister.  Through her association with Drouet, and subsequently, his friend, the respected resort manager, George Hurstwood, Carrie struggless to negotiate her ambitions and desires in the context of these two promising, but unfulfilling relationships.<br />One thing permanently at the forefront of Dreiser's novel is money - how one gets it, who has it, what they do with it, and all the complications and frustrations that come from having too much or barely enough to survive.  Dreiser opens up to us a world of widely varied economic circumstances, from the utterly abject homeless, to the 'scab' day-laborers during a public transit strike, to factory-girls, to resort managers, business owners, and seemingly everything in between.  He also underscores the perceptible, and growing, disparity between subsistence and success, between respectability and celebrity.  The differences that Carrie and Hurstwood, in their adventures together in Montreal and New York, perceive between getting by and really living, are some of the most excruciatingly rendered and pathos-riddled passages in the novel.  <br />The understated sexual relationships in the novel, and Carrie's status through most of the novel as a kept-woman/mistress, first to Drouet, then to Hurstwood, was of course shocking to the novel's first readers.  However, as there is nothing explicit in the novel, we must read beneath the surface, seeing the novel's relationships, as both the narrator and Carrie see them - as means to an end, to fiscal comfort and social respectability.  Also in these relationships, we can gauge the dynamics of gender relations in the first years of the 20th century - the narrator's insistence throughout the novel on \\"how women are\\" or references to individual characters as \\"types\\" of universal categories.  Through all of this, we come to suspect the narrator, and must learn to judge Carrie and her escapades with those she encounters (Mrs. Vance, Lola Osborne, Robert Ames) on how Carrie herself might view them.<br />Despite the wholeheartedly depressing tone of the novel as a whole, I think one positive, though qualified, means of redemption Dreiser leaves us with is the possibly transformative effects of journalistic and artistic production.  Reading is something the characters in the novel do a lot of, and here too, there is a distinction drawn between what we can get from the written word.  Dreiser seems to imply throughout the novel that through the word, written and performative, some greater relationship can be established between people - that something truly apocalyptic can be brought about by reading the right books or seeing the right plays.  This is one of Dreiser's great achievements as far as I am concerned - \\"Sister Carrie,\\" if we can read beyond the devastating hopelessness of it all, is a work that desperately wants us to connect with those around us, especially since Dreiser's own characters seem fundamentally unable to do so.	2003-03-03
US	51177889	R27MHDG9DYBS20	0300059507	90213654	European Encounters with the New World: From Renaissance to Romanticism	Books	4	20	21	N	N	How the Discovery of the New World Changed the Old	Anthony Pagden's 1993 book, &quot;European Encounters with the New World,&quot; is a socio-cultural historical study of the ways and means by which the 'discovery' of the New World left indelible impressions upon the Old World.  The book revolves around European attempts from Columbus in 1492, to Alexander von Humboldt, in 1799, to understand what the discovery meant - from how Europeans thought about the New World itself, its original inhabitants, and whether any approach could sufficiently provide them with an understanding of themselves in light of the discovery.  Concerned with the themes of 'newness,' 'authority,' and the seeming impasse of 'cultural incommensurability,' Pagden very clearly lays out the stakes for a wide range of disparate, often conflicting European ideas about what America meant in the Early Modern Period.  Pagden's approach was at once comfortable to me - he works almost exclusively with the products of cultural production - letters, histories, philosophy, dialogues, and fiction.  Subtly, Pagden as a historian seems to dispense with a radical dependence on statistics and data, in favor of a history of representation.  One strength of the book is that it works, simultaneously, as informed and interesting literary criticism and as a cultural and intellectual history.  <br />Chapter 1 takes on the history of European encounters with the New World at the level of the processes by which Europeans actually came into contact with the New World.  From Columbus through Humboldt, Pagden argues, a 'principle of attachment' governed these encounters.  In order for a traveller, migrant, colonist (and other varieties all finely delineated) to come to grips with the alienness of the new world - he first attempts a kind of mental transference, mapping the startlingly new with familiar forms, from rocks to native people.  This is the attempt, which haunts Early Modern Europe, of trying to make the incommensurable commensurable with European experience and epistemology, which comes out of an explicit history of textual interpretation.  Beyond the individual experience of America, the next problem, as Pagden sees it, is how to relate these wholly unique experiences to Europeans in Europe.  In light of the tradition of textual interpretation, which depended upon the Bible, the Church Fathers, and finally the Ancients - all of whom the very concept of a 'new' continent is beyond conception - how does a person legitimize and authenticate his experience and make it legible?  Using the writings of contemporary Spanish writers and missionaries, principally Las Casas and Oviedo, Pagden argues that a new tradition of 'autopsy,' which he defines as appeal to the authority of the eyewitness.  In line with recent developments in philosophy, the time was ripe for such a literature in which a named narrator claimed the truth of his observations.  However, according to Pagden, as the Early Modern Period continued, the focus on observational authority became increasingly dependent on concomitant claims to objectivity.  <br />Chapter 3 deals with the reckoning which the discovery of the New World brought to bear on religious and intellectual history, and how the intellectual establishment coped and adapted to the assault on the integrity of its big three - the Bible, Chruch Fathers, and Ancients.  Pagden also takes up the developing mythos surrounding Christopher Columbus - they way that images of Columbus as a 'culture-hero' shift and change from Columbus' own time through Humboldt's appropriation of him.  Chapter 4 finds Pagden dealing with the linguistic encounters between the Old and New Worlds - the ways in which European languages found difficulties relating their authority, political and religious to natives and their own languages.  It also takes up issues of temporality - how the Old World envisioned its investment in the New World as providing a peek into some kind of common human history.  Chapter 5, centering around Diderot's &quot;Supplement to Bougainville's Voyage,&quot; Humboldt's &quot;Kosmos,&quot; and the writings of Herder examines the way in which Enlightenment and early Romantic writers represents the difficulties inherent in crossing into New World spaces.  18th century debates range from vehement anti-colonialist discourse, to absolute incommensurability, to the impossibility of a universal good, to Humboldt's belief that he was the objective explorer that the European imagination had been awaiting since Columbus.  <br />Dealing only briefly with developments in critical theory over the past 20 or so years prior to 1993, including post-colonial studies, Pagden acknolwedges the use of studies which claim the 'other' is always a construction.  Similar omissions, acknowledged or not, include the absence of African slaves, and sustained emphasis on commercial and religious discourses from his cultural history.  On the whole though, Pagden's clear writing style and deep engagement with his cultural source materials, spanning different languages and historical moments is impressive, informative, and highly entertaining.	2003-02-04
US	51177889	RLUBQR3VC7T1Z	0140186867	26816434	The Marrow of Tradition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	An Astounding American Novel	Charles Chesnutt's 1901 novel, \\"The Marrow of Tradition,\\" is finally, after nearly a century, getting a broader audience, and deservedly so.  Set in late 1890's North Carolina, Chesnutt's novel examines the psychology of turn of the century American race relations.  Based on the incidents leading up to the 1898 Wilmington 'race riot,' \\"The Marrow of Tradition\\" is an astounding fictional study of American race relations, and their political, social, economic, and personal ramifications, which we still feel to-day.  This is a novel which should join Twain's \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" as a key text in American literature courses, and in the broader social imaginary.<br />\\"The Marrow of Tradition\\" begins with multiple anxities - Major Carteret, a former Southern Civil War officer, whose family was nearly ruined as a result of the war, is in the process of rebuilding his family and his fortunes.  Having founded a newspaper, 'The Morning Chronicle,' his fortunes seem to be on the rise.  However, he envisions threats on every side - personally, the precarious life of his new born son constantly threatens to end his family line; politically, since the passage of the 15th Amendment, the black population of his hometown, Wellington, is increasingly subjecting his pride to the 'insult' of an 'inferior' race in positions of authority and influence.  For the black population of Wellington, threats to their growing power are just as palpable - Carteret and his cronies (particularly General Belmont and 'Captain' McBane) are building up a 'white supremacy' movement; social relations between blacks and whites have the veneer of restraint, with explosive rage always bristling beneath the surface on both sides of the 'color line.'  For black people like Sandy Campbell and Jane Letlow, in service to white families since before the war, investment in 'status quo antebellum' is a way of life.  Others like Jerry Letlow and Josh Green represent absolute differences in opinion in their relations with the whites.  For mixed-race individuals like Dr. William Miller and his wife Janet, social acceptance, respectability, and mobility seem possible.  Miller's decision to build a hospital in Wellington is predicated on the hope that he might be a cornerstone for the up-and-coming black community.  <br />With a complex set of relations like this in place, the novel quickly draws us in.  Carteret's determination in setting up a 'white supremacy' movement meets with various successes and failures, as he uses his newspaper to sow seeds of discontent among the white population, which is actually outnumbered in Wellington, two to one.  An editorial from a black newspaper, against the extra-judicial practices of lynch mobs enrages Carteret and his group.  A key relationship in the novel, between an old Southern aristocrat, John Delamere, his profligate grandson, Tom, and their longtime family servant, Sandy Campbell, sets the stage for heightened racial tensions, when Sandy is accused of murdering an elderly white woman, Polly Ochiltree, who is related to the Carterets.  <br />Chesnutt does a phenomenal job of juxtaposing the systems by which each individual and each group and sub-group in the novel deals with the realities of life in a post-Reconstruction southern town.  From simple subsisting to aggressive attempts at change, from local traditions of hexcraft to public manipulation through the press, from defensive postures to mob mentality, from legislation to extra-legal action, from duties to the  community to the duties owed to one's own family, Chesnutt presents his readers with a wide variety of strategies open to his characters.  With a narrative voice which believes decisively in \\"Fate,\\" the novel tries to illustrate the legacy of slavery, and the almost inevitable mess that comes about when stationary, progressive, and regressive mindsets clash on a public level.<br />One of Chesnutt's major achievements is in never wholly giving way to group mentalities or broad generalizations with regard to the actors in this drama.  Stereotypes are as soon dismissed as acknowledged.  He clearly allows for and presents differences in opinion on the level of the individual - Josh Green's self-proclaimed mission of vengeance against white people is as deeply felt as Jerry Letlow's wishes to become white.  Even within the 'white supremacy' Big Three, Careteret, Belmont, and McBane express radically different approaches to gaining what they imagine to be a common goal.  White characters like Philadelphia surgeon, Dr. Burns, and Wellington newspaper man, Lee Ellis, are as inclusionary and accepting of black citizens and their aspirations as their respective social positions will allow them to be.  There is a lot more going on in \\"The Marrow of Tradition\\" than I have pointed to here.  Professor Eric Sundquist's introduction does an excellent job of setting up the historical, political, and biographical contexts involved in the novel.  Overall, this is an extremely rich novel and very much worth reading.	2003-02-03
US	51177889	RHPW4QQWXL7Q8	155111125X	569473707	Sense and Sensibility	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I Doat Upon Broadview's "Sense and Sensibility"	Jane Austen's 1811 novel, her first published, \\"Sense and Sensibility,\\" receives a grand treatment in this Broadview Literary Texts edition, edited by Kathleen James-Cavan. Anyone who knows me knows how I doat on Jane Austen, and for the first time reading her in a Broadview edition, I find myself doating excessively. \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" was the first public exposure of Austen's masterful characterization, plotting, and satire to reach the reading public of the Romantic Era. Austen thrives on what I like to call 'the middle of the book,' writing the situations that complicate the lives of her characters, better than almost anyone - almost, it seems, preferring getting her characters and readers in a position to learn from their mistakes, than actually getting them out.<br />\\"Sense and Sensibility\\" begins with the illogic of early 19th century British inheritance law. The hereditary owner of Norland Park is on his deathbed, and invites the heirs of his estate, the Dashwood family, to reside at Norland. The Dashwood's and their three daughters come to live there, but are put into jeopardy soon after by the demise of both Mr. Dashwoods - bringing the next male heir (and the girls' half-brother), John Dashwood and his manipulative wife, Fanny to Norland. Greedy as they are, John and his wife soon drive their half-sisters, Elinor, Marianne, and Margaret, along with their mother, out of Norland, Sussex, to the Devonshire countryside. Here in Devonshire, in a small cottage, and at a considerably reduced income, the Dashwood sisters and their mother struggle to rebuild their life, while the two eldest daughters, Elinor, 19, and Marianne, 17, try to deal with life and love in the English countryside.<br />Like the well-known \\"Pride (Darcy) and Prejudice (Bennet),\\" \\"Sense and Sensibility\\"s title can be seen to refer to the character traits that mark its two principle characters - Sense on the side of the Enlightenment-influenced, almost certainly emotionally-repressed Elinor, and the overfine Sensibility of Marianne, a great admirer of dead leaves and the dirty ground. As opposed to the former novel, Austen does not really disparage either, except when carried to excess, as each young woman does, instead seeking, as was popular during the period, to reconcile, or strike a balance between rational logic and emotional response. In their love affairs, Elinor's with a distant cousin, the diffident and somewhat mysterious 24-year old Edward Ferrars, and Marianne's with a younger, and very handsome rogue John Willoughby, the young ladies' moral, social, and aesthetic principles are put to the test. While Elinor and Marianne are two of the most cultured, educated, and refined characters in the novel, and while Austen certainly privileges the country over the London metropolis, she makes clear that the ladies' limited interaction with society at large leaves them in a kind of sheltered ignorance which they must come to terms with, both for their sakes and for the sake of their lovers.<br />Austen always does a great job with her minor characters, especially those who serve in comic relief roles - or as the butts of her satire, and \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" is no different. In their avarice and greed, John and Fanny Dashwood are the epitome of wholly uncultured social climbers and mindless landowners. In her less than refined, but wholly maternal attitudes toward the Miss Dashwoods, Mrs. Jennings (mother of the neglected, but ever cheerful wife Charlotte Palmer and the reticent to a fault Lady Middleton) is as amusing a character, and as warm a mother as one will find in Austen. Colonel Brandon is a fit counterpart to Mrs. Jennings, in his reserved melancholy, while caring just as much about those around him as Mrs. Jennings. The comic pairings of Mr. Palmer and Sir John Middleton with their wives is absolute genius, both being the mirror opposite in style and attitude to their wives - and in particular the relationship between the Palmers, including the continual laughing of Charlotte at the fact that Mr. Palmer \\"never listens to me\\" and \\"never tells me anything,\\" is both highly entertaining, and at the same time, one of the most troubling relationships in the novel.<br />I've praised James-Cavan's handling of this Broadview edition, and now may be a good time to say some more on that head. Broadview and its editors, like the people who put together the Norton Critical Editions, concern themselves with really presenting literary texts in a solid foundation of cultural, theoretical, and critical contexts. \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" contains a real treasure trove of such material - the two contemporary reviews of Austen's novel from 1812, generous selections of essays from the late 1700's and early 1800's on contemporary debates on the meanings of the words \\"sense\\" and \\"sensibility,\\" and on the cult of sensibility and the picturesque. Also included are exerpts from poems referenced by Marianne throughout the novel, illustrations of the vehicles they travel in, and a map of the character's London residences. James-Cavan's excellent introduction also lays out the novel's issues in their contemporary, cultural, critical, and theoretical contexts, none more obtrusive than any other, and all quite helpful. Altogether, the Broadview \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" is a tremendous edition for Austen scholars and casual Janeites alike.	2002-09-10
US	51177889	R3MILK8H57071T	0140386335	997417953	The Neverending Story	Books	4	59	63	N	N	The Neverending Story	Like everyone else, my remembrances of childhood contain hazy memories of Atreyu doing battle with Gmork, and a young Barrett Oliver as Bastian yelling \\"I will do what I dream!\\" So, in a mood to reaffirm my youthful fantasies, I picked up a copy of Michael Ende's 1979 novel upon which the movie was loosely based, \\"The Neverending Story\\". I was not surprised that the largely dark tone of the movie was, of course, much darker, deeper and much more sustained in the novel. But I am not here to compare the book to the movie, both of which are classics in their own right. Like the best of what is considered children's literature, \\"The Neverending Story\\" has an appeal and a depth that literally begs for continued readings as one grows older. A novel about growth, maturity, the power (fraught as it is) of imagination, and the necessity of books to provide us with different perspectives on our world, \\"The Neverending Story\\" is a challenging children's novel which respects its readers enough to not treat them like children. <br />\\"The Neverending Story\\" begins as Bastian Balthazar Bux, a fat little ten year old, picked on by his classmates and teachers, and ignored by his father, runs from the torments of his classmates one rainy November morning before school. Ducking into Mr. Coreander's vintage book store, Bastian suddenly finds himself in a state of mind that portends that he has come here for a reason. Following a brusque chat with Mr. Coreander, Bastian is drawn to a book the old man was perusing, titled \\"The Neverending Story,\\" bearing a logo of two snakes in an ourobouros pattern. Grabbing the book and ditching school, Bastian hides in the school's attic and begins to read a book that will change his (and our) life. The book's world, Fantastica is in grave danger - a blinding force called The Nothing is slowly eating away at Fantastica - ambassadors of all Fantastican nationalities are sent to the heart of Fantastica, The Ivory Tower, to appeal to the Childlike Empress, the impartial ruler of Fantastica, only to find that she is dying. By the time the green-skinned youth, Atreyu, is sent to discover the cause of the Childlike Empress's illness, Bastian, (and the reader) are hooked. <br />\\"The Neverending Story\\" is a novel that deals heavily with epistemological self-discovery - Atreyu's Great Quest, and Bastian's, test the limits of physical and mental endurance. Atreyu and Bastian represent two approaches to self-knowledge - Atreyu, the Socratic questioner, and Bastian, the experimental deductive reasoner. Both have their pitfalls, but the novel does not fault these two boys for the risks they take or the execution of their schemes.  Success and blame are best judged by the self in retrospect, the novel suggests, and it is only through experience (as opposed to book learning only) that we understand who we are and our places in the world and in relation to others. <br />Ende doesn't spend much time developing minor characters - most of the strange beings we encounter throughout \\"The Neverending Story\\" are rarely present for more than a chapter or two, but the ones who do stick around are impressive, though sometimes simultaneously distant and welcoming presences. Morla the Aged One, the gnome Engywook, and the Three Deep Thinkers illustrate the ruts we can get ourselves into when we are apathetic, or obssessive, but detached. Gmork and Xayide are our tormentors, the nay-sayers, the opportunists, the manipulators. Falkor the luckdragon, Grograman the Many-Coloured Death, the Childlike Empress, Yor, and Dame Eyola are the signposts of encouragement that we meet, especially in our childhood, but also thorughout our lives, guides who provide love, knowledge, and life experience. In short, though most of the minor characters flit in and out of the novel like symbols in dreams, each serves a purpose in the lives of Atreyu, Bastian, and the reader. <br />As I said earlier, this is a novel which respects the intelligence of its readers- there are long stretches of not only joyous fantasy, but also intense political and psychological trauma. Written in the late 70's in Germany, we should really pay attention to Ende's focus on \\"the borders of Fantastica\\" - the focus thoughout the novel on crossing borders, climbing walls, and passing gates all serve as a powerful comment on a split Communist/Democratic Germany represented by the Berlin Wall, and a dream for post-national fluidity. \\"The Neverending Story\\" is not just a novel, but a challenge - for us to mitigate the power of power, to reevaluate our relationships to people and to literature, to be individuals, and not the \\"weak-minded\\" followers that Gmork lusts after. This is really a terrific book, and one that no doubt will continue to enthrall and delight.	2002-09-02
US	51177889	R2641NYC13O7ND	0140442936	358990292	The Story of the Stone, or The Dream of the Red Chamber, Vol. 1: The Golden Days	Books	5	275	281	N	N	A Remarkable Achievement	I spend a lot of time wandering through bookstores.  One particular book has caught my eye over the years, and the other day I bought it - Volume 1 of Cao Xueqin's eighteenth century epic, \\"The Story of the Stone:  The Golden Days\\".  As a developing eighteenth century scholar, I was doubly attracted to it.  \\"The Golden Days\\" absolutely blew me away - used as I am to eighteenth century novels (British, French, American), this is wholly unlike anything I've read from the era.  It bears structural similarities to the Laurence Sterne's \\"Tristram Shandy\\" and \\"Sentimental Journey,\\" but aside from that bears more in common with ancient Greek novels like Longus's \\"Daphnis and Chloe\\" or Heliodorus's \\"Eithopian Romance,\\" as well as the mysticism of the ancient Egyptian \\"Story of the Shipwrecked Sailor.\\"  And yet, Cao's attention to actual life experiences, and the detail he conveys about tradition and ceremony, along with frank dealings with human relationships and sexuality makes \\"The Golden Days\\" much more than any quick summary of style or content can relate.  <br />\\"The Golden Days\\" begins in amusing, but sympathetic fashion:  the goddess Nü-wa is repairing the sky with 36,501 stones.  When she finishes, one remains, which is cast off.  Having been touched by a goddess, this stone has magical properties, able to move, change size, and even talk.  One day, a Buddhist monk and a Taoist come upon the stone, and promise to let the stone have an adventure - to become human.  As the stone waits by a pond, it falls desperately in love with a Crimson Pearl Flower, which is also selected for incarnation by the Fairy Disenchantment.  The stone and the flower are incarnated as the novel begins in earnest, as a young minor nobleman named Jia Bao-yu, and a commoner related to the family, a girl named Lin Dai-yu - both unaware of their heavenly origins.  \\"The Golden Days\\" centers around the daily events and occurrences in the lives of these two teenagers, as they come to grips, as weall must, with human life.  <br />The Rong and Ning branches of the Jia family, on opposite sides of Two Dukes Street, are the centerpieces of the novel's action.  Like the \\"big house\\" fiction of the English eighteenth century, these ancestral manses provide a locus of activity, as the nobles, their extended families, friends, and servants mingle and interact constantly.  Cao marks himself as a remarkable author by the way he handles a massive cast of characters, letting us into the private lives and concerns of all ranks of society, as well as the forms of etiquette that determine their relationships.  Another terrific facet of the novel's construction is the almost stream of consciousness style Cao employs - as characters pass in and out of the immediate action of the novel, the narrative seems to choose the person it's most interested in and follow them for pages at a time, before seamlessly passing to the next character.  It's really quite amazing, how, in this way, we come to understand the motivations, fears, and hopes of so many individuals.  Time, distance, culture, Cao levels distinctions, making historical China accessible to even 21st century readers - he reduces people to their human concerns.<br />Cao Xueqin's novel is also remarkable for what I can only call it's pro(to)-feminist tone.  While we are reminded by certain characters that male lineage is of major importance to the structure of the society, the narrative consistently shows the power, ability, and influence of women.  At the novel's beginning, a Taoist named Vanitas finds the stone, and is asked to transcribe its story, but complains initially that it is about a \\"number of females\\".  The stone obviously insists that the story be written out.  Later, Bao-yu, the major male character, says he is more comfortable around women - that they are like water, while men are like mud, castoffs, unclean.  One of the main characters of this volume is Wang Xi-feng, a young woman in her early twenties, whofor an extended period, manages the affairs of both the Ning and Rong mansions.  Cao's respect and admiration for the strong women in Bao-yu's life:  Xi-feng, Dai-yu, and two particular servants, Aroma and Caltrop, is quite obvious and important to the novel.  <br />If you are like me, and know tragically little about Chinese literature and culture, Cao takes care of that too - there is a heavy emphasis throughout the novel on the cultural productions of China.  The book integrates a wide range of poetry, drama, fiction, folk wisdom, and mythology as a central part of Bao-yu and Dai-yu's upbringing.  One can sense Cao's insistence in the novel that education and cultural production is of vital importance, particularly to children.  While the Fairy Disenchantment seems to be the guiding spirit of the novel, hinting at the diappointments inevitable in the course of life, this is a novel about youth, and hope for the future, even in the midst of concern about how long prosperity can last.  Taken altogether, \\"The Golden Days\\" cannot be recommended enough.  David Hawkes's translation is first rate, and his introduction, pronunciation notes, and appendices are thorough and very helpful.	2002-08-19
US	51177889	R1XAC2GTFZZ8SW	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Amazing Indeed!	I find my faith in the novelistic prowess of Michael Chabon well-rewarded.  Chabon's 2000 novel, \\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay\\" is indeed an amazing novel that shows a great deal of intelligence, wit, and skill.  Immediately chronicling 15 years in the lives of Samuel Klayman and Josef Kavalier from 1939 to the mid 50's , Chabon indirectly brings the reader in contact with the cultural histories of America and Jewish Eastern Europe, embodying national and cultural struggles for freedom in the lives of two ambitious young men.  This is a tremendously honest novel, and is at times full of the comedy and tragedy of seemingly ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances.  <br />The novel begins in October 1939, when teenager Samuel Klayman's sleep is disturbed by the entrance into his Brooklyn bed of a cousin, Josef Kavalier, just a couple years older, who has just arrived from Prague, Czechoslovakia.  Sammy is obsessed with story and with the enrapturing capacities of the burgeoning form of the comic book.  Raised largely by his mother, Sammy also has a kind of vacant father complex, and searches throughout the novel for a way to cope with or replace his missing father.  Josef was raised by two prominent Czech doctors, allowing him access to indulge his interests, from magic to artistry.  When the Nazis occupation of Czechoslovakia begins putting pressure on the resident Jewish population, his family sells off the majority of their possessions to fund his visa for America.  Upon Josef's arrival in Brooklyn, Sammy finds in his cousin the potential, between his own storytelling and Josef's artistic genius, to make their way in the wide open comic book marketplace - and to create a hero to hang their highly individual hopes and dreams on.<br />There is so much of interest in \\"Kavalier and Clay,\\" it's hard to know where to start.  On the novel's first page, though, Clay tells us that the driving tropes of the novel, the comic book and the superhero, are about \\"transformation\\" and \\"metamorphosis\\" - the very heart of the reason we read novels in the first place.  The comic book provides a multifaceted outlet for transformation for both of our protagonists, from very simple to the most psychologically complex.  Since at least 1719, with Defoe's \\"Robinson Crusoe,\\" novel characters have seen name changes as a vehicle for social and economic assimilation and ambition.  Within the first few chapters of Chabon's novel, the possibility of a career in comics and the hope of joining mainstream America (coming from a Jewish tradition), sees the protagonists become Sam Clay and Joe Kavalier.  The novel traces the ways that Sam and Joe attempt to define their new identities both with and against their individual and cultural pasts.  For both of these boys, in their late teens, this means coming to grips with sexuality and economic, personal, and social responsibility.  For Joe in particular, around whom the novel centers, his rebirth into an American, literary, and artistic identity hinges on his anger against the Nazis and his efforts to redeem his birth family from the genocidal theatre of Eastern Europe.  <br />The hero they together create, an \\"American golem,\\" as the novel has it, is awash in another complex set of thematic elements.  One could spend hours unpacking his very names, 'Tom Mayflower' and his alter ego, 'The Escapist'.  The themes of magic and freedom from tyranny inform the birth of this fictional hero; a background of fascination with carnivals (for Sam) and magic, especially Harry Houdini (for Joe), along with the sufferings of Czech Jews at the hands of the Nazis forms a web of social and political determinants for The Escapist.  For Joe particularly, the comic book form and the key-carrying hero come to symbolize and enact one young man's desparate desire to save his own family from the clutches of the 20th century's most evil regime.  Chabon suggests beautifully throughout his novel that the convergence ofthe rise of the comic book and the brutality of World War II create a unique historical moment in which identity politics merge with the strictly political and young male culture becomes a site where anything seems possible.  <br />The rich historical fiction of Chabon's \\"Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay\\" could be talked about endlessly - I've not even touched some of the great minor characters, like Rosa Saks, Longman Harkoo, Bernard Kornblum, and Tommy Clay, not to mention special 'guest stars' like Salvador Dali, Stan Lee, and the legendary Golem of Prague.  The detail that Chabon uses for situations and scenery is highly evocative and magical itself.  The comic book motif had me, during most of the novel, reading the action and dialogue into comic book panels, a great effect of Chabon's style and ability.  This is a book I cannot recommend highly enough.	2002-08-15
US	51177889	R3HACKV9XSCFX3	0140390308	603108986	The Rise of Silas Lapham (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	61	63	N	N	The Rise of Silas Lapham	I've had William Dean Howells' &quot;A Modern Instance&quot; and &quot;The Rise of Silas Lapham,&quot; like many, many other books on my bookshelf for a long time.  A recent meeting of a reading group of mine finally allowed me to make the time to read Howells' 1885 work, &quot;Silas Lapham&quot;.  I am extraordinarily glad I did.  From the start of the novel, we are drawn into the world of late 19th century Boston, post-Reconstruction America, where newly rich industrialists attempt to enter the society life of old money.  Howells crafts an extraordinarily realistic look at the American Dream gone awry.  <br />&quot;The Rise of Silas Lapham&quot; begins with an interview that a local newspaperman is doing of Colonel Silas Lapham, a mineral paint tycoon.  Lapham's account of his rise from the backwoods of Vermont to his marriage, to service in the Civil War, to his propagation of a successful mineral paint business is chronicled and gives us a taste of the effort and perseverance necessary for his rise, as well indicating the possibility of some potential failings, especially with regard to his one-time partner, Milton Rogers.  We soon learn that Mrs. Persis Lapham aided a society woman in distress the year before, and the return of her son, Tom Corey, from Texas, signals another sort of ambition on the part of the Lapham daughters, Irene and her older sister Penelope.  The rest of the novel plays out the ways in which the Laphams try to parley their financial success into social status - and how the Laphams are affected by the gambit.<br />Howells explores a number of significant cultural issues in &quot;Silas Lapham&quot;:  isolationism, social adaptability, economic solvency among all classes, personal integrity and familial ties, and the relationship between literature and life.  The fact that the story is set about 20 or so years after the end of the American Civil War sets an important and subtle context that runs throughout the novel and inflects all of the thematic elements.  The ways that the characters interact, the way that the society functions, even though the majority of the novel takes place in Boston, is importantly affected by the fact that Reconstruction is drawing to a close, Manifest Destiny is in full swing, and ultimately, America was at a point of still putting itself together and trying to view itself as the &quot;United&quot; States.  <br />Howells' treatment of the social interactions between the industrially rich Laphams and the old moneyed Coreys underscores the difficulty in creating and maintaining a national identity, especially when the people even in one northern city seem so essentially different.  The romance story involving the Laphams and Tom Corey is obviously an important element of the story, and Howells does an amazing job of not allowing the romance plot to become as overblown and ludicrously sentimental as the works of fiction he critiques in discussions of novels throughout his own work.  &quot;The Rise of Silas Lapham&quot; questions the nature of relationships, how they begin, how they endure - the contrast between the married lives of the Coreys and the Laphams is worth noting, as is the family dynamic in both instances.  <br />I'm very pleased to have gotten a chance to read this novel.  Generally when I say an author or a work has been neglected, I mean that it's been neglected primarily by me.  Having turned an eye now to Howells, I am very impressed with the depth of his characterization, the ways he puts scenery and backdrop to work for him, the scope of his literary allusions, and his historical consciousness.  This is certainly a great American novel that more people should read.  It may not be exciting, but it is involving, and that is always an excellent recommendation.	2002-08-11
US	51177889	R28ZKFLR3T8D4K	0140437797	543590144	A Sentimental Journey (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	43	44	N	N	A Strange, But Very Human Little Novel	Laurence Sterne's 1768 novel, \\"A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy,\\" is a strange and largely plotless book - less the recounting of a journey than of Parson Yorick's ramblings.  Following the wildly successfuly, and no less diffuse \\"Tristram Shandy,\\" Sterne crafts a much smaller, but no less intense work, recounting the misadventures of Parson Yorick, himself a character in the earlier novel.  Labelling himself a 'sentimental traveler,' Yorick's account of his travels is not descriptive, but emotive, revealing his conflicted, if warm-hearted psychology.<br />The novel begins abruptly in the middle of a conversation between Yorick and his servant over a French policy in the eighteenth century of seizing the property of a foreigner who dies in France. Eager to discover the truth of the matter, Yorick impulsively throws a few shirts in a bag and before the next day ends, lands in Calais, France.  Upon his arrival, his initial purpose, like many which he determines on in the course of the book, is forgotten, as his mind drifts from topic to topic as things and people happen to cross his sight.  What remains of the novel are a series of pathetic and amorous adventures, in which Yorick's senses of morality, propriety, and common sense are brought into constant conflict with his impetuous nature and good humored guile.  <br />Sterne is too intelligent and expert a writer to allow sentiment, what we might call sappy nonsense, to rule the day in his novel, and the scrapes Yorick get himself into are as much a critique of pure sentiment as an exploration of the uses and practicality of human sympathy.  Sterne is playing with a recent tradition of moral philosophy, including the likes of such authors as Shaftesbury and Adam Smith, the latter of whose \\"Theory of Moral Sentiments\\" (1759) was at the forefront of popularizing and pragmatizing fellow-feeling.  Sterne uses the excitable and impulsive Yorick to play with these ideas, along with those of his acquaintance,David Hume, whose notions of moral aesthetics marked a radical departure from the aforementioned predecessors.  Out of all of these high flown philosophical traditions, Sterne fashions a witty and clever series of scenarios - from eating with peasants, bantering with a monk, flirting with a married woman while her husband indifferently watches, and nearly getting thrown in the Bastille - all display a very human look at the world.<br />Encounters between Yorick and various classes and characters in France illustrate the distance between theory and practice in terms of implementing any kind of systematic philosophy - even, and especially for a man of the cloth, like our protagonist.  Yorick means well most of the time, which makes his faults and foibles all the more endearing and amusing.  By his own admission, Yorick is constantly falling in love, perhaps to give his bachelor life some sense of chivalric purpose, but when he starts falling in love with every chamber-maid and noblewoman in France, we begin to question, not only his sincerity, but the capacity of his sexual and emotional appetites.  It makes for hilarious episodes, especially when his French servant, La Fleur, is dragged into the middle of them.<br />A forerunner of the focused genre of sentimental fiction like Mackenzie's \\"The Man of Feeling\\" and the more refined imaginative sensibilities of many Romantic Era authors, Sterne's little novel, along with \\"Tristram Shandy\\" made immediate cultural impact, not only in England, but throughout Europe.  Sometimes confusing, often amusing, reading Sterne's \\"Sentimental Journey\\" is a great way to while away a summer afternoon.	2002-08-07
US	51177889	R1XN87QX2PBPX0	0971821909	639393081	The Body: An Essay	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;Everything That Is Said Is Said Underneath&quot;	One time, I was watching The X-Files, and Mulder told Scully that dreams were answers to questions we haven't yet learned how to ask.  I've read through Jenny Boully's 2002 collection of footnote-poems, &quot;The Body:  An Essay,&quot; three times now, and that thought keeps going through my mind.  If this is, as the subtitle suggests, an essay, we must ask ourselves what the essay is about.  From the very start, we are given a series of images and ideas which are developed, inverted, repeated, and questioned throughout; the bicycle, the dream, the text, the Bloomian anxiety of influence, and in all of these, as well as in its own way, as the title suggests, the physical body.  <br />In &quot;The Body,&quot; Boully does no more than any curious person does in internally debating the nature of existence, the purpose of literature, the meaning of love - but the way she does it is no less than calling to a memorable reckoning the history of human thought and writing.  From the Bible to Laurence Sterne to Lacan, and much of what comes in between (and before/after), the scope and breadth of Boully's exposure and knowledge of what has been written on the subjects she treats is obvious in her engagements with and struggles to mine those sources and adapt them to her own purposes.  What seems to result is a statement that these revered authorities have never been able to provide an answer to the questions that plague our attempts at epistemological clarity - and she is humble enough not to try offering her own work itself as an answer, but instead as a reevaluation of the questions.  <br />Footnotes as footnotes are meant to illuminate or clarify the text to which they are appended.  Giving us a series of footnotes to a text that's not there complicates things - it forces us to look &quot;underneath,&quot; to the silences - to what we don't say, the letters we don't send, the truths we can't admit even to ourselves about ourselves.  What revelations lay behind the paste-board masks that we present to the world as our selves?  The oceans of blank space in this deceptively small (78 page) book tease us with a body that is still undefined, unexplored, unnameable as it were.  <br />The dreams and fragments, scenarios of plays unacted, nondescript, and yet lush depictions of people without names, words we can't read, and conversations between people who don't hear each other - the footnotes themselves disorient our ideas of the world we arrange in order to make sense of.  What appears at first glance to be a loose amalgamation of unrelated comments, reveals itself, in the course of reading, to be a carefully arranged, highly patterned series of musings, often simultaneously wary and celebratory of uncertainty.  To read &quot;The Body,&quot; at least for me, has been to lose, at least temporarily, the need to have everything make sense; to hear, see, and read answers to questions that I don't know how to ask.	2002-08-05
US	51177889	R3OYSOBVS839WA	0393966402	474714897	Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Third Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Amazing Edition of a Classic Work	Mark Twain's 1885 novel, \\"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,\\" has had a long history, during which it has been and still is both reviled and celebrated.  Essentially the story of the picaresque travels and adventures of a young Missouri boy and his friend Jim, a runaway slave, in 1840's America.  Taking cues from books like \\"Don Quixote\\" and Jonathan Swift's works, and a fraught relationship to Sir Walter Scott's historical romances and those of his protege, James Fenimore Cooper, Twain constructs a masterful first person narrative, through the eyes of 14 year old Huckleberry and a profound and hilarious satire on American culture.<br />\\"Huckleberry Finn\\" begins in tension - Huckleberry's fortune and wardship with the well-meaning widow Douglas has him in a bind.  The widow wants to 'sivilize' him, taking him out of the happy go lucky, easy going lifestyle he loves, while his fortune of six thousand dollars has him living in perpetual anxiety of his father, a violent drunkard whose absence only makes Huck more anxious about his return.  When Huck's pap does return, sure enough, Huck is remanded, more or less, to Pap's custody, and kept prisoner in a secluded cabin.  Though he is no longer being 'sivilized,' his time with Pap becomes more and more tense and lonely, driving Huck to stage his own death and run away from Pap and from civilization.  Early in his escape, on a small island in the Mississippi River, he meets Jim, a slave from his town of St. Petersburg, who has run away, planning to raise money in the north to buy his family out of slavery.  Together, Jim and Huck form a friendship that will take them up and down and all around the Mississippi River.<br />\\"Huckleberry Finn\\" deals with a great many social issues, and none more interestingly than with conventional morality.  With Huck, he effectively creates an outside position from which to view American culture as he sees it, with all of its pretentions and faults.  Huck doesn't put much stock in widow Douglass' or Miss Watson's strictly defined notions of religion or morality - throughout the novel, we see him in constant conflict with himself over the fine line between what is considered right and wrong, and what is accepted as such.  Huck's inner negotiations with prayer and morality, good and evil, are at the heart of the novel.  His post-Emersonian, proto-Nietzschean manner of dealing with himself and his relationship to society is fascinating and compelling.  His relationship with the runaway slave Jim, of course, is also a focal point of the novel - the ways in which Jim and Huck depend on and care for each other is both moving and of course, socially and politically suggestive and significant, especially in the historical context of the novel, both the setting, prior to the Civil War, and its published era, at the tail end of Reconstruction.  Those who would be offended by racial epithets in common parlance during this time period would be advised to take historical context into account before railing against the novel's racial politics - if one gets unduly caught up in nitpicking such things, one falls into the trap of the satire, become a target in the process.<br />As satire or black comedy, \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" has at every moment the ability to make us laugh out loud at ourselves and at the situations in the novel - from the fraudulent actions of the King and the Duke, to Tom Sawyer's needlessly elaborate scheme to free Jim from slavery, to well-born cultured families feuding, to all the cross-dressing that goes on in the novel (and there is a lot of it!).  Again, though, as black comedy, we may often catch ourselves laughing, then wondering, hey, that isn't very funny - this is the brilliance of Twain's artistic achievement; to make us laugh while looking critically at ourselves.  A book that is uniquely American, Twain's humour, wit, and style contribute to give us a look at both Antebellum and post-Reconstruction America through the eyes of innocence and experience, to see how far the nation had come since the days of Washington, and how far it still had (and has) to go.<br />This 1998 Norton Critical Third edition of \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" is truly amazing. It restores the entire text from the manuscript, including among other things, the \\"Raftsman's episode\\" and all of the original illustrations.  The supplementary materials in this edition are top-shelf also, with excerpts covering the controversy surrounding the novel, from its publication to the present.  The critical selections are excellent as well, especially the incisive and yet startlingly personal essays by T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison. This is probably the best current edition out there of this tremendous, and tremendously complicated American classic.	2002-07-31
US	51177889	R34X5MZQ170MAH	0140437428	596871917	The Old Curiosity Shop (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Emotionally Draining and Often Bizarre Novel	Charles Dickens's 1840-1 novel, \\"The Old Curiosity Shop,\\" is an emotionally draining, melancholic, melodramatic, and often super bizarre, even surreal novel.  Dickens takes on, as usual, a number of social issues, including child abuse, child labour, gambling addiction, and the inadequacy of the legal system (again, as usual).  Centering around the fatiguing wanderings of young Nell Trent and her grandfather, \\"The Old Curiosity Shop\\" offers a stark dichotomy between the country and the city in terms of moral virtues, and gives us a quest for the seemingly forever fading good life.  A life of ease is a difficult pursuit, surely, but no more so than in this novel.<br />\\"The Old Curiosity Shop\\" begins as Little Nell, almost 14 years old, makes her way through the dark alleys of London back to her aged grandfather's old curiosity shop (hence the name).  Her grandfather absolutely doats upon Nell, and all of his misguided energies - he is a totally reckless gambler - are devoted to providing for her future wellbeing.  Their peace is constantly threatened by one of Dickens's most insistently evil characters, the dwarf Daniel Quilp, who is a loan shark among other things.  When Quilp finds out (though he is nearly omnipresent, in spirit, if not in person throughout the novel, and prides himself on his piercing awareness) that Nell's grandfather has gambled away all of Quilp's loans to him, Quilp takes possession of the old curiosity shop, and one morning, seeking a new life of freedom in the country, Nell and her grandfather run off.  Believing the grandfather to have a pile of untapped wealth secreted away somewhere, Quilp enacts a number of schemes to track and trap them, which gets us into the main action of the novel - Nell's wanderings and Quilp's pursuit.<br />The Old Curiosity Shop itself is really only a symbol, as it isn't in the action of the novel for very long - it seems to represent the decaying past of the future, if that makes any sense.  It is the future decay of the city in the hearts of Nell and her grandfather as they seek the ever elusive peace and quiet of the open country.  Perhaps foreshadowing the dark, cramped, undulating bits within Mr. Venus's shop in \\"Our Mutual Friend,\\" here, the curiosities are largely encountered out in the world.  The astonishing mass of humanity that Nell and her increasingly mentally-enfeebled grandfather encounter on their Tennysonian quest toward the western horizon are the curiosities in this book.  Good, evil, and ambivalent, the people who populate the curiosity shop that is the world of the novel are a strange lot.  Dickens was seemingly always at his best with his minor characters - here we get the magnificently rendered Dick Swiveller (who may be considered a protagonist), the faithful Kit Nubbles, the difficult pony Whiskers, the abused wife Mrs. Quilp, the Marchioness, Mrs. Jarley the wax-work owner, the misanthropist Tom Codlin and his partner Short Trotters the puppet-show masters, and a cast of dancing dogs are some of the most important and impressive of the minor characters.<br />Dickens is very good at melancholy and melodrama, but \\"The Old Curiosity Shop\\" takes all that to almost an absurd extreme.  Having a very young teenage girl practically leading her dotard grandfather on foot aimlessly through trial, pursuit, and outrageous physical privations - it is a formula tailor-made for a festival of crying.  The treatment the nameless (how's that for abuse?) Marchioness receives at the hands of her mistress, Sally Brass, is likewise one of the most reprehensible situations I've ever encountered in literature, as well as one of the most fascinating.  Dickens uses setting in this novel to enhance the drama of the situations - though the novel moves steadily from London to within sight of Wales, few of the points between have names - most are simply types of crowded, dirty cities, humble hovels, roadside inns, and the pastoral settings themselves seem simply to be taken from a primer on idylls.  This allows Dickens to play out his dramas on interchangeable sets, and gives Quilp's relentless pursuit an intensity underscored by the fact that we are never sure where we are.  In \\"The Old Curiosity Shop,\\" melodrama is always teetering on the brink of either blissful dream or outright nightmare.  <br />The one problem I have with this Penguin edition, as with several others, especially of Dickens's works, is that the editorial notes, helpful and exhaustive as they are, have a disturbing tendency to give away key plot elements, sometimes hundreds of pages before they occur.  Best, when reading the Penguin, especially for the first time, to refrain as much as possible from the explanatory notes.  Otherwise, this is Dickens, and the novel itself is remarkable.	2002-07-16
US	51177889	R19F4P2MN6IZ9A	0140185429	705206507	Loser Takes All (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A Clever Thought Experiment	Graham Greene's 1955 novella, \\"Loser Takes All,\\" is a clever thought experiment in which love, morality, and ethics are all brought to bear on the early days of a married relationship.  One of Greene's most appealing moves in the book is his delineation of character.  The people who populate the novella are character types struggling to become characters - to find individuality and meaning in a world whose sole virtue seems to be money.<br />\\"Loser Takes All\\" begins in Monte Carlo.  An English couple, Bertram, a fortyish accountant with a dead end career; and Cary, his twentyish fiance are on the verge of marriage - but they've been sidetracked.  Initially planning on a small church service, Bertram is called into a meeting with his abstracted and unapproachable boss, Dreuther.  Although Bertram isn't well-off, Dreuther talks him into moving his marriage plans to Monte Carlo, where Dreuther will rendezvous with them, and bring them back to England on his yacht.  The action of the novella shows how this change of plans affects absolutely everything in Bertram and Cary's lives.<br />This is a short work, but it is packed with important and compelling themes.  Greene was an absolute craftsman of language and situation, and the major themes that his longer works explore are found even in this short entertainment.  Human relationships are central to the novella - the central relationship between Bertram and Cary is affected by Bertram's relationship with Dreuther, Dreuther's with 'another' of the firm's shareholders, Blixon.  Greene asks how sympathies are constructed and maintained in good times and in bad.  <br />Money and chance are also extremely important to the overarching theme of gambling and roulette.  Characters like Bertram and character types like Phillippe and Bird's Nest illustrate the tensions in viewing life's progression as a matter of necessity or one of chance.  Again, \\"Loser Takes All\\" is a short work, and is valuable as a kind of synopsis of the issues Greene's impressive literary corpus consistently engages with.  The three star rating is because, in the context of Greene's body of work alone, \\"Loser Takes All\\" is a good piece, but not a great one.	2002-06-15
US	51177889	R200DQYE9ZYAXQ	0195042395	962279459	The Coquette (Early American Women Writers)	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Coquettry in Early America	Hannah Foster's 1797 novel, \\"The Coquette,\\" seems, at first glance, like an early American ripoff of such famous 18th century British novels like Samuel Richardson's \\"Pamela\\" or \\"Clarissa,\\" and indeed it contains references and allusions to both, and to a wealth of other 18th century British fiction. In its historical context, though, \\"The Coquette\\" acquires added significance and cultural depth, as a response to the guiding philsophies and political stances of the new American nation. <br />\\"The Coquette\\" begins with death and a rebirth. The main character, your title coquette, if you will, Eliza Wharton, rejoices in her freedom from the structure of her family's controls. Her betrothed, an elderly man named Haly, has just died, releasing Eliza from an unloving engagement. Free now to indulge her native sprightliness and sociability, Eliza goes to New Haven, Connecticut, to spend some time with and in the society of her married friend, Mrs. Richman. In New Haven, Eliza, already in her late 20's-early 30's, is the darling of society, where her cultivated mind, and liberal temperament are given free reign. Here, she is wooed by two men, Reverend Boyer, about to come into a residency in a fashionable parish, and Major Sanford, widely known as a libertine, but permitted into polite society because of his rank and apparent wealth. The action of the novel concerns Eliza's choice between the two. <br />The choice, simple as it may seem, is complicated by its inflections by way of the political and social culture of the early American republic. In such contexts, Eliza, with the help and advice of her confidants, Mrs. Richman, Lucy Freeman, Julia Granby, and her own mother, must try to negotiate newly-found freedom and independence within the gendered constraints of virtue and propriety. This is the philosophical and political crux of the novel - Foster asks the reader throughout the novel how individual freedoms are to be understood within a newly centralized federal government. <br />Alongside the common romance-epistolary tropes of seduction and violation, we read \\"The Coquette\\" with an eye toward agricultural and commercial expansion. In a novel where seemingly no one works to earn a living, we must extrapolate the typically early American notions of self-making and industrious citizenry through the characters' discussions of personal and social identity, as well as in the way that people create themselves through personal writings. This is evinced, of course, most obviously in early America by folks like Benjamin Franklin in his \\"Autobiography\\" and Thomas Jefferson in his \\"Notes on the State of Virginia\\". <br />Foster's \\"The Coquette\\" isn't the best novel. Shoot, in terms of artistry, it's really not very good at all. But as a barometer of one woman's opinions on the early American nation, and the place of women within it, it is an invaluable fictional resource.	2002-06-07
US	51177889	R1LK92FW34ARZ3	0140180966	283328506	The Secret Agent: A Simple Tale (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	59	64	N	N	The Secret Agent	Joseph Conrad's 1907 novel, \\"The Secret Agent,\\" is a difficult little book.  It's story is difficult and its characters are largely unpleasant.  By difficult and unpleasant, I don't mean to say the novel isn't any good.  Far from it.  These terms I mean to denote the impenetrability of motive, of sense.  The story of a group of anarchists, police, and a family caught in the middle in late Victorian England, \\"The Secret Agent\\" is far from Conrad's subtitle, \\"A Simple Tale\\".  The novel, for me, is about hatred, mistrust, and breakdowns in communication.<br />\\"The Secret Agent\\" begins early one morning in 1886.  Mr. Verloc, a secret agent for a foreign embassy, who lives in a small apartment with his wife Winnie, her mentally ill brother, Stevie, and their mother.  Keeping an eye on a particularly ineffectual anarchist community in London, Verloc pretends to be an anarchist revolutionary himself.  As the novel opens, Verloc is called in by his new employer Mr. Vladimir.  Vladimir, discontented with the apparent lack of production out of his secret agent, and even further with the lackadaisical English police, wants Verloc to act as an agent provocateur, and arrange for a bomb to spur the English government to crack down on the legal system.  As religion and royalty are, according to Vladimir, no longer strong enough emotional ties to the people, an attack must be made upon \\"Science,\\" and he selects the Greenwich Observatory as the appropriate site for action.<br />The novel introduces us to a range of wholly unsympathetic characters.  The anarchist collective roughly consists of \\"Doctor\\" Ossipan, who lives off his romantic attachments to women barely able to take care of themselves; \\"The Professor,\\" explosives expert, who is so insecure, he is perpetually wired with a detonator in case he is threatened by police capture; and Michaelis, the corpulent writer, engaged upon his autobiography after a mitigated sentence in prison.  Conrad's portrayal of this cabal is whollyludicrous - a band of anarchists that are better at talking than doing anything to achieve their undeveloped goals.  No better than these are their nemeses, the London police, here represented by Inspector Heat, who identifies so much with the common criminal element, you'd think he was one himself; and the Assistant Commissioner, who is so dissatisfied with his desk job, that he would do anything to get out on the streets - but not so ambitious as to upset his nagging wife and her social circle.<br />At the diffuse center, if it has one, of Conrad's novel, is the Verloc family, held together by ties no less tenuous and flimsy than any other community in the work.  Verloc and his wife communicate and interact by monosyllables and the broken bell of their front door.  Winnie Verloc knows nothing of her husband's secret life, and tries desperately to prevent him from taking offence at having to support her infirmed mother and practically useless brother by forming a society of admiration amongst them for her \\"good\\" husband.  Lack of real communication and sympathy amongst the Verloc household is at the heart of Conrad's satire against late Victorian England.<br />As the Greenwich Bomb Outrage is an early, but central moment in the novel, it would not be spoiling anything to tell you that this is where Conrad really earns his paycheck.  His mode of bringing all the disparate characters and subplots of the novel together throughout the rest of the book is both reminiscent of and radically undercutting the influence of Charles Dickens in Conrad's social critique.  \\"The Secret Agent\\" is a clever novel, but exceptionally bleak.  Thinking about other early 1900's British novels like Samuel Butler's \\"The Way of All Flesh\\" or Virginia Woolf's \\"To the Lighthouse,\\" Conrad's \\"The Secret Agent\\" is another of these works where a British writer tries to assess the state of the Empire in the aftermath of Victoria's demise - examining past follies to be overcome, and peering withoutoptimism at what lies ahead.	2002-06-02
US	51177889	RZXHDHNVSFHU7	0140430326	671551059	New Grub Street (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	50	54	N	N	The Hateful Spirit of Literary Rancour	George Gissing's 1891 novel, \\"New Grub Street,\\" is likely one of the most depressing books I've ever read.  Certainly, in its descriptions of literary life, be it in publishing, or in my own realm of graduate scholarship, the situations, truths, and lives Gissing portrays are still all too relevant.  \\"New Grub Street\\" itself points to the timelessness of Gissing's portrayals - as Grub Street was synonymous, even in the eighteenth century with the disrepute of hack writing, and the ignominy of having to make a living by authorship.  One of Gissing's primary laments throughout the novel is that the life of the mind is of necessity one which is socially isolating and potentially devastating to any kind of relationships, familial or otherwise.  \\"New Grub Street\\" gives us a world where friendship is never far from enmity, where love is never far from the most bitter kinds of hatred.  <br />The anti-heroes of \\"New Grub Street\\" are presented to us as the novel begins - Jasper Milvain is a young, if somewhat impoverished, but highly ambitious man, eager to be a figure of influence in literary society at whatever cost.  His friend, Edwin Reardon, on the other hand, was brought up on the classics, and toils away in obscurity, determined to gain fame and reputation through meaningful, psychological, and strictly literary fiction.  Family matters beset the two - Jasper has two younger sisters to look out for, and Edwin has a beautiful and intelligent wife, who has become expectant of Edwin's potential fame.  Throw into the mix Miss Marian Yule, daughter of a declining author of criticism, whose own reputation was never fully realized, and who has indentured his daughter to literary servitude, and we have a pretty list of discontented and anxious people struggling in the cut-throat literary marketplace of London.  <br />Money is of supreme importance in \\"New Grub Street,\\" and it would be pointless to write a review without making note of it.  As always, the literary life is onewhich is not remunerative for the mass of people who engage upon it, and this causes no end of strife in the novel.  As Milvain points out, the paradox of making money in the literary world is that one must have a well-known reputation in order to make money from one's labours.  At the same time, one must have money in order to move in circles where one's reputation may be made.  This is the center of the novel's difficulties - should one or must one sacrifice principles of strictly literary fame and pander to a vulgar audience in order to simply survive?  The question is one in which Reardon finds the greatest challenges to his marriage, his self-esteem, and even his very existence.  For Jasper Milvain and his sisters, as well as for Alfred and Marian Yule, there is no question that the needs of subsistence outweigh most other considerations.  <br />\\"New Grub Street\\" profoundly questions the relevance of classic literature and high culture to the great mass of people, and by proxy, to the nation itself.  For England, which propagated its sense of international importance throughout the nineteenth century by encouraging the study of English literature in its colonial holdings, the matter becomes one of great significance.  The careers of Miss Dora Milvain and Mr. Whelpdale, easily the novel's two most charming, endearing, and sympathetic characters, attempt to illustrate the ways in which modern literature may be profitable to both the individual who writes it and the audiences towards which they aim.  They may be considered the moral centers of the novel, and redeem Gissing's work from being entirely fatalistic.  <br />\\"New Grub Street\\" is a novel that will haunt me for quite some time.  As a \\"man of letters\\" myself, I can only hope that the novel will serve as an object lesson, and one to which I may turn in hope and despair.  The novel is well written, its characters and situations drawn in a very realistic and often sympathetic way.  Like the ill-fated \\"ignoblydecent\\" novel of Mr. Biffen's, \\"Mr. Bailey, Grocer,\\" \\"New Grub Street\\" may seem less like a novel, and more like a series of rambling biographical sketches, but they are indelible and lasting sketches of literary lives as they were in the original Grub Street, still yet in Gissing's time, and as they continue to-day.  Very highly recommended.	2002-05-28
US	51177889	R1OX57P6PTGAYT	0140434976	365726027	Our Mutual Friend (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	72	78	N	N	Murky Educations by the Thames	Charles Dickens's 1865 novel, his last completed novel, \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" is an extraordinarily dark and convoluted work.  Featuring such unforgettable figures as Mr. Boffin, Mr. Podsnap, Bradley Headstone, Jenny Wren, and Silas Wegg, Dickens continues, or rather concludes his artistic legacy with a work rich in well written and compelling characters.  Exploring, as do many of Dickens's works, the intricacies of inheritance, \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" is also deeply concerned with families and the things that hold them together or rip them apart.  Interesting and fraught emphases on education, upholding particularly English interests in the face of the still rising British Empire, and concerns about the absolute uncertainties about life and death, this is quite a way to come at a last complete novel.<br />\\"Our Mutual Friend\\" begins with Lizzie and her father Gaffer Hexam patrolling the river in the dark of night.  Pulling a body out of the river for the potential reward money, the novel jumps right into the action with a bang.  The body is presumed to be that of young John Harmon, just returned from South Africa to claim a huge inheritance from his recently deceased, hateful and miserly father.  The only heir dead, the elder Harmon's loyal employees, Mr. and Mrs. Boffin stand next in the will to inherit everything.  This causes a stir in Society, where Mortimer Lightwood, the legal executor of the will, and his friend Eugene Wrayburn are called in to view the body and question Gaffer Hexam.  This causes two others to be drawn into the plot - Lizzie Hexam, an uneducated, but prescient young woman, who immediately catches Wrayburn's eye, and Miss Bella Wilfer, a sprightly young woman whose marriage to young John Harmon was the sole condition for that gentleman to come into his inheritance prevented by his untimely death.  The novel tries over the next 700 pages to work out the personal ramifications of the murder, the will, and the fates of these two young women.<br />So many of Dickens's novels deal with the lives and educations (scholastically, socially, or both) of young people, and \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" is no different.  Gaffer Hexam, the boatman, is opposed to book-learning, and refuses to allow either Lizzie or his younger son Charley, to learn even to read.  Lizzie arranges, though, for Charley to remove himself from the cycle of riverside drudgery by facilitating his escape to a school, where he excels under the tutelage of one of Dickens's most intense characters, Bradley Headstone.  Elsewhere, the Boffins, now in a state of financial ease, seek to improve their cultural understandings, hiring a literary man \\"with a wooden leg,\\" the well-versed Silas Wegg, and even buy the mansion that Wegg works in front of.  Other characters, like the mercenary Bella Wilfer, the absolutely indolent Wrayburn, and the articulator of bones, Mr. Venus, all seem to be in sore need of social and moral educations.<br />Just to kind of continue this theme, one may be particularly interested in the kinds of literary funds that Dickens draws on in \\"Our Mutual Friend\\":  His debt to 18th century literature is heavy indeed, with the works of the poet James Thomson and the historian Edward Gibbon coursing through the novel like the very Thames itself, laying the groundwork for literary and historical commentary on the nature of Empire and particularly British Imperial interests, and how those interests reach from the international into the lives of individuals.  Another important predecessor in this line is the infamous Mr. Podsnap, a very dark descendant of Laurence Sterne's Corporal Trim from \\"Tristram Shandy.\\"  Trim's famous flourish, in Podsnap's hands acquires the power to annihilate entire nations.  Dickens also reveals heavy debts to fairy tales and nursery rhymes that continue and complicate the novel's emphasis on children's educations, how they are managed, and the impact that they can have on the world as it will become.<br />If you aren't interested in reading \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" yet, you should be!  Clearly, my interests lay in the national and educational strains of the novel, but there's obviously so much more.  Now, my knowledge of Dickens may be limited to the five or six novels I've read so far, but you will be hard pressed anywhere in Dickens, (or anywhere else for that matter), to find a more frenetic villain than Mr. Bradley Headstone - to see him in action alone makes this novel worth reading.  He ranks right up there with \\"David Copperfield\\"s Uriah Heep in terms of Dickens's most insistently horrifying creations.  Ok.  Enough from me, go, read \\"Our Mutual Friend.\\"  What are you waiting for!  Go, now!interested in reading \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" yet, you should be!  Clearly, my interests lay in the national and educational strains of the novel, but there's obviously so much more.  Now, my knowledge of Dickens may be limited to the five or six novels I've read so far, but you will be hard pressed anywhere in Dickens, (or anywhere else for that matter), to find a more frenetic villain than Mr. Bradley Headstone - to see him in action alone makes this novel worth reading.  He ranks right up there with \\"David Copperfield\\"s Uriah Heep in terms of Dickens's most insistently horrifying creations.  Ok.  Enough from me, go, read \\"Our Mutual Friend.\\"  What are you waiting for!  Go, now!	2002-05-22
US	51177889	R1ANNILIG3WVK4	0807848883	32191519	Eloquence Is Power: Oratory and Performance in Early America (Published by the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture and the University of North Carolina Press)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Examining the Intersections of Oratory and Literature	Sandra Gustafson's 2000 book, \\"Eloquence Is Power,\\" seeks through historical reconstructions of key figures and key moments, to recuperate the dramatic influence of oratory in the formation of America.  Complementing and complicating the established American mythos surrounding founding documents like the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, Gustafson explores the dynamic and dialectic of what she terms the 'performance semiotic' and its impact on American culture from its earliest figurations to the present day.  Gustafson defines the performance semiotic as the historical interplay between speech and text, which 'performs social conflict,' setting the stage for a broader notion of cultural interplay between racial and gendered identities, and between religious and political sensibilities.  Utilizing a broad spectrum of theoretical frameworks, Gustafson incorporates models of gender performativity, critical race studies, and generous historical contexts to situate her reevaluation of American history.<br />\\"Eloquence Is Power\\" cleverly constructs its arguments in the framework of the performance semiotic:  each chapter focuses centrally on two, sometimes three key figures at a particular historical moment who enact the struggle for linguistic primacy and social control through, and increasingly, in the mutual involvement of orature and literature.  Eschewing the popular teleological view of a cultural progression from `savage' speech to 'civilized' writing, Gustafson claims that not only are the two insistently linked throughout the history of early America, but that each develops with notable contributions from Euro-American, Native American, and African-American, and sources.  The central question of the book concerns power relations and their respective derivations.  In the religious and political realms that provide consistent loci of cultural tension for Gustafson, inspiration and textual precedent are both at odds and variously incorporated in disputes over who has legitimate authority.  <br />Beginning with the friction between Anglicanism (text-centered) and Puritanism (speech-centered) and their early efforts at conversion of the Native Americans, Gustafson shows how the supposed universality of the prepared text and the supposed appeal to the individual from extempore speech form a paradigmatic conflict that is repeated throughout American history.  The following chapters detail the ways in which gendered and racialized modes of access to divine and scriptural authority provisionally threaten, but are tenuously contained by public displays of white male power.  Publicly enacted debates over the relevance of feminine piety to religious communities ensue in the interstices of the ongoing performance semiotic between the arenas of speech and text.  <br />In her account of Euro-American encounters with racial others, Gustafson discusses the appropriation of 'savage' performances in the religious conversion of Native and African-American populations.  Aspects of these include the gesticular performances, and ritual qualities of both Native and African religious ceremony, manifesting itself as mimicry with a difference in the mobility and adaptability, and even linguistic translations of Euro-American itinerant preachers and missionaries.  Of course, the mimicry with a difference is primarily attributed to 'Othered' American subjects, as shown in Gustafson's discussions of the careers of Samson Occom and John Marrant, who incorporate Euro-American evangelical styles hybridized with Native custom to serve and alter the interests of Euro-American Christianity.  Gustafson clearly delineates the methods by which colonial authority maintains a cautious relationship toward the potential ascendancy and potential threat posed by the exploited Native, the enslaved African, and the suppressed woman.  <br />Turning to the American revolutionary moment, The mixing of oratorical and textual modes troubles and defies any teleological notion of American national development through the spread of print media alone.  The two, for Gustafson, are mutually-sustaining, continually challenging and reinforcing each other.  The primacy of the body as semantic vessel returns in the pre-revolutionary period as the Boston Massacre furnishes revolutionary orators, writers, and engravers with an occasion to exercise their eloquence against insupportable English forms of tyrannical control.  Deftly, the argument shows how public sentiment in the years following the Boston Massacre and the tradition of annual oratorical remembrances elide the initial identification of racial scapegoats, turning all of the American casualties into martyrs in the struggle for American independence.  In the aftermath of independence, Gustafson shows how nothing was cleanly resolved by either the Declaration or the Constitution, as public debate raged in the form of party politics concerning the appropriate form that the new American government should take, as well as in an examination of George Washington's presidency and beyond.  <br />Gustafson's \\"Eloquence is Power\\" is a fascinating reassessment of early American history at the intersections of literature and orature.  In recuperating the influence of women and ethnic minorities on the formation of the American public sphere, Gustafson offers an inclusive and important study.  Professor Gustafson's prose is lucid and devoid of academic jargon, making her arguments easy to understand and follow throughout the book.  \\"Eloquence is Power\\" is a book that is informative, accessible, and enjoyable.	2002-04-26
US	51177889	RB7B1J9R5Q732	0140430954	97234762	Shirley (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	57	60	N	N	A Phenomenal, Complicated Novel	Charlotte Brontë's 1849 novel \\"Shirley\\" really delivers on the already realized potential of her first novel, \\"Jane Eyre.\\"  Though the novel is named for the character Shirley Keeldar, the novel really has no one set protagonist - the duties are mostly shared in the relationship between the fiesty and wealthy Shirley, and the lovelorn Caroline Helstone.  Set against a backdrop of social and economic unrest, as the swelling ranks of the unemployed react against increasing mechanization of mill production, \\"Shirley\\" takes in a broad range of national and international issues.  Even when the personal and romantic narratives seem to dominate the novel, Brontë does an extraordinary job of keeping the questions of social discontent present to the reader.<br />\\"Shirley\\" opens on a view of Briarfield, a small mill community in Yorkshire, where the labourers are restless and hungry. The mill owners, Robert Moore and Hiram Yorke, are anxious with reports of murderous actions against mechanizing mill owners elsewhere, and suffering under governmentally restricted trade.  The gentry are disaffected with the mill owners, and more concerned with England's continuing conflicts with Napoleon overseas.  The main concerns of the novel revolve around all of these conflicts - conflicts of interest, conflicts between classes, and the wider conflicts of nations.  Brontë's social vision seems to ask throughout the novel if any of the normal sorts of personal problems even matter in the face of the sufferings of the masses.<br />Briarfield's leading citizen is Reverend Helstone; he along with a motley mix of curates accurately represents the microcosmic problem that affects the macrocosm of England in the time of the novel, 1811-12.  Helstone is rigidly hierarchical in his mindset, and suffers from a peculiar affliction as a religious man - a total lack of sympathetic attachment to the community he ministers to.  His niece, Caroline, who stands to inherit no fortune, is singular also, in that her social standing coupled with her lack of money places her in an awkward position with regard to her potential love interest, Robert Moore.  With the advent of the wealthy and independent Shirley, who attracts the affections and avarice, respectively, of Caroline and Robert, new avenues of personal tension enter the already conflicted society of Briarfield.<br />Gender troubles are rife in the novel - from Shirley's adoption of the tone and stance of a masculine inheritor, a military captain, and a protector of Caroline; to the rabid misogyny of Reverend Helstone, Martin Yorke, and the curate Malone, among others; and the wild invectives against marriage from a variety of sources - Brontë shows that regardless of intranational or international disputes, the seeds of discord are plentiful within the domestic spaces of potentially every English home.  Brontë examines the lack and need for strong maternal presence, emphasizing the fact that Shirley's parents are dead, and Caroline has never known her own mother, except as the butt of  foul rumours.  The gender-fueled critique in \\"Shirley\\" extends even to the characters' notions of the divine - the male religious authorities are contrasted with the oracular and ancient image of the feminine sibyl.<br />\\"Shirley\\" may, in the end, be the name chosen for the novel, not because she is its main character, but because she symbolizes and embodies the social, political, gender, and ecological complexities and conundrums present throughout the novel.  For a 600-page novel, \\"Shirley\\" is an incredibly quick and compelling read.  Certainly, it deserves a wider readership and pays a close attention with fuel for consideration and thoughtful discussion.in that her social standing coupled with her lack of money places her in an awkward position with regard to her potential love interest, Robert Moore.  With the advent of the wealthy and independent Shirley, who attracts the affections and avarice, respectively, of Caroline and Robert, new avenues of personal tension enter the already conflicted society of Briarfield.<br />Gender troubles are rife in the novel - from Shirley's adoption of the tone and stance of a masculine inheritor, a military captain, and a protector of Caroline; to the rabid misogyny of Reverend Helstone, Martin Yorke, and the curate Malone, among others; and the wild invectives against marriage from a variety of sources - Brontë shows that regardless of intranational or international disputes, the seeds of discord are plentiful within the domestic spaces of potentially every English home.  Brontë examines the lack and need for strong maternal presence, emphasizing the fact that Shirley's parents are dead, and Caroline has never known her own mother, except as the butt of  foul rumours.  The gender-fueled critique in \\"Shirley\\" extends even to the characters' notions of the divine - the male religious authorities are contrasted with the oracular and ancient image of the feminine sibyl.<br />\\"Shirley\\" may, in the end, be the name chosen for the novel, not because she is its main character, but because she symbolizes and embodies the social, political, gender, and ecological complexities and conundrums present throughout the novel.  For a 600-page novel, \\"Shirley\\" is an incredibly quick and compelling read.  Certainly, it deserves a wider readership and pays a close attention with fuel for consideration and thoughtful discussion.	2002-04-23
US	51177889	R1THHYH8HBYU54	0140390162	424288287	Common Sense (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Every American Should Read "Common Sense"	Thomas Paine's January 1776 pamphlet, \\"Common Sense,\\" is one of those documents of American culture which goes all too frequently neglected these days.  Paine's insistent call for independence from Great Britain in the winter before the Second Continental Congress was instrumental in mobilizing public opinion and popular support for political and economic freedom.  Economics and social values form the basis of Paine's critique of the British presence in the American colonies, and he never loses sight of either his purpose or his rationale throughout the course of his argument.  \\"Common Sense\\" follows a logical schematic - from a general philosophical explication of human government, to a critique of the current state of British government, to an analysis of the American situation particularly, and even includes a general plan for an independent American government following independence.  \\"Common Sense\\" is remarkable for Paine's diagnosis of the American situation, Paine having been only 14 months in the colonies when it was published, and for its eloquence and exhortative value.  <br />Paine begins by outlining human nature as he sees it.  In a fascinating inversion of Thomas Hobbes, he notes that monarchy at the present time creates a situation wherein government is as effective as it would be if there were no government at all.  The nearly anarchic state of nature defies the logical purpose of government.  Paine says that people form societies naturally, and form governments only because human morality is not perfect.  The end of government is to protect the right to property and religious freedom.  Paine favours a representative democracy wherein there is frequent turn-over, and where the common interests of the people are consulted and catered to.  Finally, he argues for the rule and sovereignty of law against the arbitrary and absurd rule of kings and men.<br />He contrasts this with the British model, in which government seems only to serve the interests of the King and the aristocracy.  Taxation, as a primary example, allows hereditary rulers, who are inherently removed from the interests of the industrious people they govern, to live off their subjects without contributing anything of substance to the society or the polis.  Paine insists that the province of government is not to regulate the lives of the citizens; instead, it must create and protect an arena where free competition in the marketplace will allow people to pursue their own best interests.  With a minimum of government, civil society, Paine believes, can administer itself.  In one of his most clever lines, Paine says that if an American government can only see to the protection of its own economy and exports, it will flourish \\"and will always have a market while eating is the custom of Europe\\".  <br />The impetus for \\"Common Sense\\" is the current of thought that suggested reconciliation with Britain is preferable to independence.  In an American public sphere anxious about its relationship to Britain, Paine provides encouragement to debate and discussion with all the subtlety of a street-corner millennarian.  Citing the inevitability of a split between the colonies and Britain, and emphasizing that the legacy of America is at stake in the choices of the present moment, Paine calls the drive to independence \\"the cause of all mankind\\".  In persuasive and urgent, nearly prophetic language, Paine makes a case for the political, economic, and historical implications of American independence.<br />Of course, \\"Common Sense\\" is not without its problems.  Paine's discussion of natural and artificial distinctions within society and government is problematic at its intersections with gender and race.  Paine's strange thematic of government and prostitution reflects 18th century gender standards; and he never seems comfortable with the issues of African slavery in America or the 'problem' of Native Americans.  In this context, it is easy to see, in Paine's assessmentof whether independence should be pursued now or later, a prefigurement of the political and economic bases of the American Civil War.  Isaac Kramnick's extensive and exhaustive introduction to this Penguin Classics edition of \\"Common Sense,\\" though nearly 30 years old, sets Paine's achievement in firm and understandable contexts of its philosophical, historical, and biographical origins.  An excellent edition of a work that every American, if not everyone, owes it to themselves to read.	2002-04-08
US	51177889	R3G1W8A06555P2	0262581086	852108448	The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society (Studies in Contemporary German Social Thought)	Books	4	95	97	N	N	The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere	When you talk about the public sphere in front of intellectuals, Jürgen Habermas's name is bound to come up. Habermas's 1962 study, &quot;The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere,&quot; examines the creation, brief flourishing, and demise of a public sphere based in rational-critical debate and discussion. The feasibility of a true public sphere, which is inclusive of anyone who would participate, is for Habermas of utmost importance. Habermas follows a methodology similar to the one Michel Foucault takes in &quot;Discipline and Punish,&quot; which analyzes the abolition of public displays of power, and the process by which the structures of power are inculcated in the individual from the 17th through the 20th centuries. Habermas analyzes historical, economic, and political conditions from classical antiquity through his own historical moment, tracing the circumstances in which the public sphere arises, how it functions, and ceases to function over time. <br />Habermas begins with a delineation of the terms 'public' and 'private,' orienting them philologically from their roots and meanings in classical antiquity. From here, he traces the adoption of the words and their synonyms into the European Middle Ages and the era of feudalism. Habermas says that in this period, the feudal lord and the monarch, for whom `representative publicness' functioned as a display of power before their subjects, dominated the public. Authority figures embodied virtues and powers in a public fashion. Public representation of political and economic power continued, unabated until the Reformation, at which time, the privatization of religious faith signaled a separation between society and the state. Economically, in the 16th and 17th centuries, the spread of trade necessitated the spread of news from various locales. As news outside of the home became relevant to home economy, the private individual begins to take an interest in public events. Consolidation of 'national' financial administration and state-controlled taxation, along with the rise of print culture, facilitated the dissemination of news, initially in the form of governmental decrees, market conditions, and happenings at court. Through this, the actions of the authorities came under the scrutiny of a reading public. <br />The 18th century is the key moment for Habermas. In this period, the government, along with private individuals, made use of the press, for the first time, in persuasive appeal to a public made up of private people. The press now presented the public with information, with which they were to use reason and discussion to determine what was in the public's interest. Habermas emphasizes the theoretical parity that this brings about - the rise of the coffee houses and salons, in which merchants met with gentility and engaged in rational-critical debate over issues of public import. Stretching this into the realm of the franchise, Habermas is careful to point out the problematics of a situation in which actual decision-making was restricted to those with money and land, but stresses that the opportunity for anyone to acquire these prerequisites was, again, theoretically, open to all. <br />For a brief time during the 18th century, Habermas sees the flourishing of a public sphere, born out of a reading public, that began to interact with the processes of public policy, legally, and morally. The purpose of this public sphere, according to Habermas, is to eliminate the domination of authoritative power, and establishing a government that is actually representative of the public will and contingent upon public opinion. Unfortunately, in the 19th century, with the stratification of party politics, the proliferating press encouraged less rational-critical discussion. Increasingly, debate moved into parliamentary circles, and the public was asked only to approve of party measures, not participate in the formation of the rules that governed them. In the 20th century, along with the creation of the welfare-state, consolidation of moneyed interests, and the expansion of universal suffrage (ironically), the public sphere disintegrated even further. New media - radio, television, etc. - turned its addresses to the public into mere advertising. Even the illusion of a private people engaged, as a public, in matters of their own governance, was gone, and the public became vessels for mass media. <br />To recuperate a true participatory public sphere, Habermas takes a guarded approach. He indicates that some kind of elite could be formed. These private individuals would undertake the responsibility of rational-critical debate, determining the public interest. The general public, then, would give their approval or disapproval to the measures decided on by this elite. This is kind of a bleak outlook, and one I don't much care for myself. Of course, this is a horribly limited review of Habermas's &quot;Structural Transformation&quot;. I haven't even noted the break he takes to outline the historical-philosophical evaluation and critique of the public sphere by Kant, Hegel, Marx, Mill, and Tocqueville. Nor did I note the extensive use Habermas makes of political and economic changes in his key nations - England, France, and Germany - and the contributions these make to the disintegration of the public sphere. At any rate, &quot;Structural Transformation&quot; is an exhaustive (and exhausting) study, as relevant now to the study of literature, economics, government, history, etc., especially of the last three centuries, as it ever was. Even though it is a pain to read, you'll be glad you finally read it. Think of it as theoretical medicine - it may not taste good, but in the long run, it's good for you.	2002-04-04
US	51177889	R3HJJ7X6946DA2	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Bilbo's Whimsical Adventure	J.R.R. Tolkien's 1937 novel, \\"The Hobbit:  or There and Back Again\\" is the starting point for what became \\"The Lord of the Rings\\".  It is a whimsical adventure, introducing us to hobbits, dwarves, elves, dragons, and a host of other fantastic creatures.  However, this is not just a tale of quest-adventure, or a simple morality play.  Tolkien's own introduction to the first edition notes the \\"glimpses into the history and politics\\" of Bilbo's world that the novel provides.  Indeed, \\"The Hobbit\\" is a journey from innocence to experience, but the lessons learned are fraught with contradictions and complicated political messages.<br />\\"The Hobbit\\" begins abruptly, as Bilbo Baggins, a 50 year old hobbit, living a comfortable, sedate life, is intruded upon by the wizard Gandalf and a company of 13 dwarves.  Against his better judgement, Bilbo is swept into accompanying this band in a quest to recover the treasure and birthright of Thorin Oakenshield, the dwarf leader.  For countless years, the Lonely Mountain, ancestral home of Thorin's people, has been inhabited by the powerful usurping dragon, Smaug.  At Gandalf's insistence, the dwarves, believing Bilbo to be an accomplished burglar, recruit the hobbit to assist their quest.  The quest, which takes the adventurers halfway across their world, is beset by trials and tribulations, as they must face dangerous goblins, spiders, the dragon, and the commercial civilization of Men.  These are trials of mental and physical strength, and they test the dwarves, but more importantly, Bilbo.  Bilbo's encounter with Gollum and the adventure of the Ring is the centerpiece of the novel.  Bilbo's characterization as a burglar by Gandalf and the dwarves at the novel's beginning casts a shadow over the ethical decisions Bilbo is faced with throughout the rest of the tale.<br />There are many points of interest in a novel like this, which could be seen as a fairly straightforward Marxist fable.  Tolkien's distrust of money as a locus of desire is most apparent in the development of Thorin's character, but also in his anxiety over the Master of Lake-Town, and in the fat and complacent Smaug, whose flesh has become embedded with jewels from ages of sitting atop his treasure hoard.  Contrasting this with Bilbo, whose primary interest is in food and good cheer, is problematic.  His experiences with Gollum and the Ring and his later relationship with Thorin call into serious question Bilbo's own priorities.  In fact, one of the things that is so amazing about \\"The Hobbit\\" is that there seems to be no one character that represents the center of morality in a novel so concerned with honorable action and fair dealing.<br />The action of \\"The Hobbit\\" is fast-paced, and Tolkien for the most part is content to sacrifice character development to plot.  That said, the most interesting characters in the novel for me were Gandalf, Bilbo, the \\"skin-changer\\" Beorn, and Thorin.  They provide a complicated variety of perspectives on inter-cultural relations and politics, value systems, and justice.  Tolkien's achievement in \\"The Hobbit\\" is the way that he disguises what is problematic in the society he presents in what appears to be, and is at heart, a fun and enjoyable adventure.esire is most apparent in the development of Thorin's character, but also in his anxiety over the Master of Lake-Town, and in the fat and complacent Smaug, whose flesh has become embedded with jewels from ages of sitting atop his treasure hoard.  Contrasting this with Bilbo, whose primary interest is in food and good cheer, is problematic.  His experiences with Gollum and the Ring and his later relationship with Thorin call into serious question Bilbo's own priorities.  In fact, one of the things that is so amazing about \\"The Hobbit\\" is that there seems to be no one character that represents the center of morality in a novel so concerned with honorable action and fair dealing.<br />The action of \\"The Hobbit\\" is fast-paced, and Tolkien for the most part is content to sacrifice character development to plot.  That said, the most interesting characters in the novel for me were Gandalf, Bilbo, the \\"skin-changer\\" Beorn, and Thorin.  They provide a complicated variety of perspectives on inter-cultural relations and politics, value systems, and justice.  Tolkien's achievement in \\"The Hobbit\\" is the way that he disguises what is problematic in the society he presents in what appears to be, and is at heart, a fun and enjoyable adventure.	2002-04-01
US	51177889	R3IK2TQ8SCWBT1	0140447660	199203596	Effi Briest (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	68	71	N	N	A Melancholy and Beautiful Novel	Theodor Fontane's 1895 novel, \\"Effi Briest,\\" is the moving and melancholy story of Effi, a sprightly teenage girl whose limited interactions with society and the moral bearings of that society are brought into direct and terrible conflict.  Fontane gives an all too realistic portrayal of late 19th century Victorian morality and the lives of minor German aristocrats.  The novel relates Effi's struggle to negotiate the constraints of society as an extremely young woman who in many ways rejects them all.<br />\\"Effi Briest\\" begins as Effi, a fifteen year old girl, enjoys the privileges of wealth and beauty in the small town of Hohen-Cremmen.  She plays with the other young girls of her neighbourhood, Herta, Berta, and Hulda.  They play childish games and indulge each other in romantic stories and juvenile ambitions.  One day, while telling the story of an unrealized love affair between her own mother and a military officer, Geert von Innstetten, Effi is informed that Innstetten, now upwards of forty years old, has come to visit, and has proposed marriage to Effi.  Effi cannot but comply.  Relocated to the port town of Kessin, Effi finds herself in a commercial center, without the kind of genteel society she is accustomed to, nor the variety or the spontaneity in her lifestyle that she had always enjoyed.  Innstetten's workaholism and emotionally detached bearing make life nearly insufferable for her.  She is relieved by two men, Gieshubler, a kindly old hunchbacked chemist; and Major Crampas, a 'reformed' libertine whose marriage is unsatisfying.  Gieshubler offers Effi a haven of conversation and empathy; Crampas offers her a seductive, liberatory companion.  As Innstetten's job absorbs most of his time, he permits and even encourages Effi to spend time with Crampas.  A secret correspondence between Effi and Crampas sets the scene for the rest of the novel.<br />\\"Effi Briest\\" is really an extraordinary work.  Fontane examines throughout the novel the effect of nationaland international politics, cultural mobility, and trade on the individual.  Fontane's presentation of the port town of Kessin, in particular, is fascinating.  Here, Effi is truly taken out of the sheltered life of Hohen-Cremmen and exposed to a mobile and commercial society, where people from different cultures and epistemologies flit in and out of her life, like the seemingly liberated woman, Maria Trippelli, in whom Effi takes an intense interest, and Roswitha, a lapsed Catholic nursemaid.  In Kessin, she is also encounters a story that haunts the entire novel, the highly evocative and ambiguous story of the Chinaman.  <br />Ambiguity is a hallmark of \\"Effi Briest\\" and is a major part of the appeal of Fontane's novel.  Fontane refrains from making authorial pronouncements or assessments on his characters' actions and situations.  To what extent, for example, does Innstetten's political ambition justify the lack of time he devotes to his young wife?  Is Effi an agent in her own life, or is she a reactive victim to social morality and impossible standards, especially as a teenage wife?  The relationship between Effi's parents highlights this ambiguity, bringing it even into ambivalence, as every difficult situation draws from Effi's father a dismissal of \\"that's too big a subject\\".  Overall, a very complex and beautiful novel.	2002-04-01
US	51177889	R2YM5ILYSWKDBT	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wild and Confusing, but Intensely Engaged	William Burroughs' 1959 'novel,' or work, perhaps, \\"Naked Lunch\\" is really a wild and dirty (not a value judgment) cultural artifact. It can be extraordinarily difficult to follow and understand, even from one page to the next. The whole is composed of sketches, or episodes, some having no apparent connection to the others, except by associations of sexuality and rampant drug use/addiction/recovery. There are a couple of major structural elements that comprise the work: scenes and descriptions of the moment of 'need' for the addict (particularly of opiates) and of the social, economic, and political climate that perpetuates the problem; and the futuristic-Orwell-on-Heroin story of Interzone. <br />Interzone, located nebulously in North Africa, is the site of cultural crossings, and a corrupt and totalitarian government, that seeks to control the bodies and minds of its 'citizens'. Some of the horde of villainy amok in Interzone: the nefarious Dr. Benway, whose crass self-assurance underlies anxieties brought on by his insistent medical prosecution of homosexuality; A.J., an opportunist, whose maddening interests include abortion; and a host of Party Leaders whose distance from the 'ordinary people' they represent is a severe critique, particularly on American government. Written during the Cold War and the persecution of Americans for supposedly 'communist' activities, Burroughs' work offers admittedly Swiftian satiric glances at many aspects of 1950's culture in terms of gender, complacency, and isolationism. <br />For good and ill, the portrait of Interzone in \\"Naked Lunch\\" is no less a prophetic vision of a dystopia, such as we see in George Orwell's \\"1984,\\" published just 10 years before. Both works are concerned with the brute physicality of life, as it is and as it could be in the future if current trends are left without check or amendment. Like \\"1984,\\" but surpassing it in some ways, \\"Naked Lunch\\" addresses the dangers of government power over the human body, its reproductivity, and the unfortunate similarities apparently viewed by the state between its citizens and common herd animals. \\"Naked Lunch\\" is pervaded by scenes of overt sexual practices and orgies that 'bugger' description and even more disturbing scenes in which people are depicted as beasts - baboons and insects abound in the work. These are mitigated by references the narrator makes to himself as similar in bearing to Samuel Taylor Coleridge's \\"Ancient Mariner\\" - Burroughs asks his audience to listen or read in silence - because these are stories and vignettes which he must tell, both for his sake and ours.<br />Scenes from real life, along with an introduction and appendix that deal with the experience of drug abuse provide an anchor (however tenuous) to the reader. If one reads the episodes that take place in Chicago, New York, Tangier, etc., as examples of the worst of humanity in our contemporary world - and sees this as the very foundation of the socio-political climate of Interzone, then the despair and challenge of the work become clear. Burroughs is reaching out to us to change our world fundamentally to be more tolerant and understanding, particularly in an era where, increasingly, strictly defined notions of nationality and national cultures are becoming ever more faint. This is a book, like Orwell's, which is more relevant than ever to readers in the early 21st century. It takes patience and application to read, but is ultimately rewarding and thought-provoking.	2002-03-07
US	51177889	R3G67ZHUEZG5IN	0192835807	946452706	A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	A Brilliant Enquiry into the Passions of Love and Fear	Edmund Burke's 1757 treatise, \\"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful,\\" is a clearly written, well-argued, and variously inflected work of philosophy.  Coming out of and contending with the traditions of philosophies of passion, understanding, and aesthetics from Aristotle and Longinus to Descartes, Hobbes to Locke, and Shaftesbury to Hume, Burke would seem to be taking on a world of difficulty at the tender age of 28.  However, Burke manages to maintain control and exercise great wit in his treatise by confining his \\"Enquiry\\" to the ways we interact with the physical world, and how in this interaction, we formulate our aesthetic ideas of sublimity and beauty.<br />Burke's \\"Enquiry\\" is divided into five parts, with an introduction.  The introduction is perhaps his most witty segment, as he tries, as Shaftesbury, Addison, and Hume before him, to formulate a standard of Taste, a popular subject of conjecture in the 18th century.  Physically, and not without some irony, he chooses to speak of Taste primarily as a feature of eating.  In response to his predecessors, though, he does say that since our attitudes toward the world come from our senses, that the majority of people can see (sight being very important) and react; thus all people are capable of some degree of Taste.  Education and experience, he must admit, though, do refine Taste.  In Part One, Burke examines the individual and social causes which arouse our sense of the sublime and the beautiful, those being the primal feelings of terror/pain and love/pleasure, respectively.  Throughout the \\"Enquiry,\\" Burke insists that these are not opposites strictly speaking - that pain and pleasure are mediated by a neutral state of indifference, which is the natural state of man.  (Compare that idea to Hobbes and Locke!)<br />Parts Two, Three, and Four find Burke explaining his notion of the passions in relation to his basis of the physical world.  Grandeur, potential threat, darkness, and ignorance for Burke excite our nerves and produce the sublime, a feeling of terror which is simultaneously delightful as long as it does not cause immediate pain.  These he finds both in the physical world and in tragedies of literature and history.  Smallness, softness, clarity, and weakness delimit the beautiful, which produces affection and sympathy.  The contrasts and interventions that Burke makes throughout the \\"Enquiry\\" on these bases are variously inflected with issues of anxiety over gender roles, race, and power.  Burke's politics give the work a joyful and troubling complexity to the literary minded.<br />Part Five, then, is a look at the effect that words, language, and poetry can have in influencing our affect in regards to the sublime and the beautiful.  In it, he gathers together statements he sprinkles throughout the treatise on the nature of poetry - that its emphasis on representation of emotion, rather than imitation of objects, gives it a power that is perhaps unequalled even by nature.  In Burke's \\"Enquiry,\\" one can see a nascent fascination with landscape, mystery, and sensation that would find its flowering in the Gothic and Romantic movements of the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  His insistent break with earlier philosphers who combined aesthetics and morality is a serious challenge to moral philosophy with regard to art and Taste.  His physical descriptions of emotional response prefigures Freud's psychological ponderings in \\"Three Essays on Sexuality\\" and \\"Beyond the Pleasure Principle,\\" as well as linguistic theory.  In all, a fascinating and complicated work for being as short as it is.<br />This review is dedicated to the memory of Vernon Lau.  Unfortunately, Burke did not deal in the \\"Enquiry\\" with the pain or terror of immediate personal loss.  One can only wonder if Burke's obsession with philosophical distance between people and fear wasn't motivated by a loss of his own.darkness, and ignorance for Burke excite our nerves and produce the sublime, a feeling of terror which is simultaneously delightful as long as it does not cause immediate pain.  These he finds both in the physical world and in tragedies of literature and history.  Smallness, softness, clarity, and weakness delimit the beautiful, which produces affection and sympathy.  The contrasts and interventions that Burke makes throughout the \\"Enquiry\\" on these bases are variously inflected with issues of anxiety over gender roles, race, and power.  Burke's politics give the work a joyful and troubling complexity to the literary minded.<br />Part Five, then, is a look at the effect that words, language, and poetry can have in influencing our affect in regards to the sublime and the beautiful.  In it, he gathers together statements he sprinkles throughout the treatise on the nature of poetry - that its emphasis on representation of emotion, rather than imitation of objects, gives it a power that is perhaps unequalled even by nature.  In Burke's \\"Enquiry,\\" one can see a nascent fascination with landscape, mystery, and sensation that would find its flowering in the Gothic and Romantic movements of the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  His insistent break with earlier philosphers who combined aesthetics and morality is a serious challenge to moral philosophy with regard to art and Taste.  His physical descriptions of emotional response prefigures Freud's psychological ponderings in \\"Three Essays on Sexuality\\" and \\"Beyond the Pleasure Principle,\\" as well as linguistic theory.  In all, a fascinating and complicated work for being as short as it is.<br />This review is dedicated to the memory of Vernon Lau.  Unfortunately, Burke did not deal in the \\"Enquiry\\" with the pain or terror of immediate personal loss.  One can only wonder if Burke's obsession with philosophical distance between people and fear wasn't motivated by a loss of his own.	2002-03-07
US	51177889	R32F2FBRCIQGLP	0195074149	467666447	Female Quixotism: Exhibited in the Romantic Opinions and Extravagant Adventures of Dorcasina Sheldon (Early American Women Writers)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Early American Anti-Romance	Published in 1801, Tabitha Tenney's novel, \\"Female Quixotism\\" is at times an amusing, satiric, and profoundly melancholic work.  Written in the popular 18th century strain of novels with a moral aesthetic, whose purpose is social and moral corrective, \\"Female Quixotism\\" positions itself in the discourse of the dangers of novel reading, especially for young women.  While this is its primary function, the narrative also engages with its historical moment, just a few years after the birth of the American nation, \\"Female Quixotism\\" addresses America's relationship to increasing numbers of 'foreign' immigrants, the 'problem' of the Native American, and strikingly, the issue of abolishing slavery.  <br />\\"Female Quixotism\\" takes place over fifty years, from about 1750 to 1800.  Dorcas Sheldon is an only child, who early on loses her mother.  Raised and educated by her father, she is entranced throughout her life by British novels, particularly those of Samuel Richardson and Tobias Smollett.  This 'turns her head,' if you will, making her believe that the passionate, spontaneous expressions of love and desire found in these novels are the only legitimate basis of love and marriage.  She even goes so far as to change her name on her 18th birthday to Dorcasina, thinking it far more romantic.  Her father and her neighbours, the Stanlys, along with her waiting maid Betty all try to argue Dorcasina to a more rational kind of love, but are forced to watch her repeatedly make a fool out of herself while men who are either interested in sport or money take advantage of her delusions.  <br />Dorcasina's 'lovers,' particularly O'Connor, James, Philander, 'Montague' and Seymour all use Dorcasina's predilection for high-flown courting language and ridiculous sentimentality against her to achieve their own purposes.  As Dorcasina gets progressively older, she begins to appear more and more ludicrous and shameless, a sore trial for her father, one of L____, Pennsylvania's most wealthy and respected inhabitants.  Contrasted throughout the novel is one of Dorcasina's neighbours, Harriot Stanly, a bright young woman, who is sent away to study in a private school, with an injunction from her mother never to read a novel, citing Dorcasina as a prime negative example.  In the fine picaresque style, following such romps as the immortal \\"Don Quixote,\\" or Goldsmith's \\"The Vicar of Wakefield\\" and so on, \\"Female Quixotism\\" lampoons the heroine's wild notions of novels as patterns for life.  <br />Ironically, unlike her male predecessors, Dorcasina and her sidekick, Betty do very little traveling, moving primarily in the novel between their house and a wooded grove in which many of her amorous misadventures begin.  The novel's isolationism follows from it's uniquely early-American context.  One of the more important issues that \\"Female Quixotism\\" handles is the question of marginal people in the new United States, and as in Charles Brockden Brown, one of Tenney's contemporaries, particularly Irish immigrants, while also tackling the Constitution's fictional notion of equality in terms of African-American slavery.  Also as in Brown's novels, \\"Female Quixotism\\" takes place in an agricultural area outside of Philadelphia, the hub of national activity in the late 18th century.  In many ways, \\"Female Quixotism\\" can be read as a commentary on the socio-political options and choices facing the new republic - in imagining a household without a male authority figure, \\"Female Quixotism\\" tests the viability and vulnerability of a Lockean government though a wholly domestic arena.  <br />A fascinating, entertaning, and often pitiful heroine, cleverly managed anti-romantic storylines, and urgent historical questions make \\"Female Quixotism\\" a pivotal early American work of fiction.  Tenney's novel is delightful and seriously engaging and should be read by anyone interested in the development of the 18th century novel in general, American fiction in particular, as well as the history of women's education.	2002-03-03
US	51177889	R2CCDUFW02QBIL	0192835653	793437486	Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Lascivious! Unbelievable! An Erotic Literary Classic	I once reviewed Matthew Lewis' 1796 novel \\"The Monk\\" and said that it should be rated \\"R\\". Well, having just had the experience (and it is an experience) of reading John Cleland's 1748-9 novel, \\"Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure,\\" everything else just seems like children's literature. Cleland's \\"Memoirs\\" was simultaneously reviled and a best seller, declared obscene and yet continued to be published illegally througout the 18th century. In the aftermath of the public frenzy for and against Samuel Richardson's ultra-famous novels \\"Pamela\\" and \\"Clarissa\\" and Henry Fielding's equally famous responses, \\"Shamela,\\" \\"Joseph Andrews,\\" and \\"Tom Jones,\\" Cleland's novel strikes out into wholly uncharted moral and aesthetic territory.<br />Similarly to Defoe's \\"Moll Flanders,\\" Cleland's novel begins with its heroine, Fanny Hill, an innocent, uneducated country girl, thrown at a very early age into the cruel world of London and forced into a life of prostitution. As an innocent virgin, the madam whose house she live in is saving Fanny for a noble customer whom they expect daily, but learns about sexual commerce by watching other prostitutes in the house. Eloping with a beautiful, wealthy young man named Charles before she engages in any sexual activity, the novel concerns Fanny's sexual awakenings and her life with and without her first love, Charles. The way that the novel refigures fidelity in the relationship between Fanny and Charles is astounding.<br />Cleland's master-stroke, if you will, linguistically, is to write a whole-heartedly pornographic novel and couch everything in such a rich variety of metaphors. Graphic scenarios can be found on almost every page, but there is a marked and remarkable absence of graphic language. Structurally, Cleland's plotting of Fanny Hill's escapades is exquisitely balanced and even-handed. Morally and aesthetically, \\"Memoirs\\" comes straight out of the strain of 18th century moral philosophy associated by turns, with Shaftesbury and David Hume. From Shaftesbury, Cleland takes the idea that aesthetics and morality should be judged on an equal form in works of art. From Hume, he takes the radical stance that vices and luxuries are not inherently evil, and even acceptable when not carried to extremes. Cleland makes judicious use of these structural and philosophical elements in creating one of the strongest and most liberated heroines in English literature.<br />Among other points of interest in the novel, there is the prevalence and even propriety of expressions of feminine desire, agency, power, and control over self and circumstances. Aside from her first entrance into London and her various periods as a kept-mistress, Fanny Hill is educated by the prostitute Phoebe, and the procuress Mrs. Cole to be an independent, self-regulating subject. Related to this is the rather revolutionary notion inferred that sexual education predicates all other sources of knowledge, and is at heart, the basis and foundation of human interaction, at least in the semi-utopic world of the novel.<br />There are so many fascinating things about Cleland's \\"Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure,\\" it would take forever to puzzle through them all. All the same, I've only been able myself to think critically about the novel at some distance of remove from reading it. Reading this novel was an interesting, but frustrating, and at times impossible task. It's not a difficult novel to read in terms of prose, but for a 188 page novel, it tends to overwhelm everything else while you're reading it. Like I said, reading \\"Memoirs\\" is an experience - I often had to look at the cover to recall that this is no simple work of pornography, but an acknowledged work of classic literature. By all accounts, a captivating novel. It gets five stars just because it is so amazing and outlandish. Aside from the Marquis de Sade, who belongs properly to the excesses of the Romantic Era, I had no idea that there was anything even remotely like this in the 18th century.  To quote that immortal philospher, Stephon Marbury, Cleland's novel is \\"all nude...but tastefully done.\\"entury.  To quote that immortal philospher, Stephon Marbury, Cleland's novel is \\"all nude...but tastefully done.\\"	2002-03-02
US	51177889	R1RK92K3ERGPLB	0871132583	109165277	The Tremor of Forgery (Highsmith, Patricia)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Terrific, Socio-Politically Engaged Novel	From the cover, spectacular novelist, Graham Greene says that \\"The Tremor of Forgery\\" is \\"Highsmith's finest novel,\\" and this alone should encourage a wider readership for Highsmith's 1969 novel.  This is a novel that is in conversation with novels like Greene's own \\"The Quiet American,\\" and \\"The Heart of the Matter,\\" Albert Camus' \\"The Stranger,\\" and others.  This is a novel deeply engaged in the ramifications of the 20th century legacy of imperial colonialism and the interactions between disparate and perhaps incommensurable cultures.  <br />\\"The Tremor of Forgery\\" begins with an American writer Howard Ingham, off in Tunisia to do research for a film script.  His research tends to the less than engaged, merely watching tourists and locals in bars and cafes.  Cut off from communication with his employer, John Castlewood, and his girlfriend, Ina Pallant, he continually looks for any correspondence from either of them as his time in Tunisia wears on and his script begins to stall.  Ingham begins to forge relationships with an ultra-patriotic American, Francis Adams, and a gay artist from Denmark, Anders Jensen.  These two give Ingham a pair of rather extreme political and social viewpoints between which Ingham comes to understand his place as a foreigner in Tunisia and the relationship he would have with the local Arab population, especially in light of the six-day war between Arabs and Israelis.  The remainder of the novel shows Ingham torn between issues of morality and responsibility as his short stay in Tunisia becomes longer and longer.  The third term here, the Arabic population, suspicious both to Adams and Jensen, offers what each defines as a position devoid of traditional morality - and Ingham struggles to both adopt and separate himself from this stereotyped 'Arabic' mentality.  <br />Ingham is perpetually uneasy in his dealings with the local Arabic population - French is the language that allows him to communicate in Tunisia, as he does not know Arabic -so he communicates in the language of colonialism, which is in itself troubling.  As a result, his communication with the local population is limited to commercial exchange - he strikes what he takes to be relationships and even friendships with Mokta, a worker at Ingham's hotel, and Melik, a bar owner.  The other and more troubling side of Ingham's Tunisian experience in the town of Hammamet, is with the shadier element, particularly a suspicious and theiving man named Abdullah.  Ingham's manner of relating to the local population, wavering between friendship and fear or anxiety, illustrates his tenuous hold on establishing some kind of comfort in his surroundings.  <br />As the novel continues, we are forced to recognize and consider the different ways that relationships of all kinds are figured, from romantic, to interpersonal, to moral, to political, to international relations.  Highsmith's commentary on late 1960's America in terms of particularly racial politics, along with her assessments of America's role in Vietnam to the future of Euro-American and Arabic relations are very much in line with those of Greene in \\"The Quiet American\\" in terms of their chillingly prophetic foresight.  <br />\\"The Tremor of Forgery\\" is a particulalry telling novel whose prescience and importance to our own contemporary moment in the early 21st century makes the novel of extreme interest to us to-day.  Well-written, socially and politically engaged, and deeply ambiguous in its judgments, Highsmith's novel comes to you highly recommended.  As I read it, I found myself excited, ambivalent, and concerned by turns - the very sorts of emotional and reflective responses we get from the very best literature.	2002-02-24
US	51177889	R20U0F8GZ6LJJJ	0395111528	751760991	Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded (Riverside Editions)	Books	4	44	45	N	N	A Novel of Mutual Seduction and Instruction	Samuel Richardson's first novel, 1740's \\"Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded\\" is a clever and rich novel.  Written to entertain and edify readers of both sexes, \\"Pamela\\" is an epistolary novel, presented in the form of letters and a journal between young Pamela Andrews and her parents.  From the viewpoint of a domestic servant, Pamela illustrates the complex relationships between commoners and aristocrats, including the range of socially and economically diverse people between those extremes.  The novel also explores the erotics of social ambition within the context of eighteenth century bourgeois religious ethics.  <br />Pamela is a mid-teen waiting maid, and as the novel begins, the Lady she serves has just died.  Prior to her death, this Lady recommends her servants, and particularly Pamela, who has been educated and refined above her social station, to the Lady's son, a strapping young man, Mr. B.  Mr. B, with his own plans for Pamela, gladly takes her into his service, rather than send her to his sister, Lady Davers.  Shortly after entering his service, Pamela begins to be uncomfortable, as Mr. B starts trying to seduce her.  Pamela, in correspondence with her parents, and under the direct advice of the housekeeper, Mrs. Jervis, vows to protect her virtue and chastity.  The rest of the novel deals with Pamela's efforts to fend off Mr. B's advances, in conditions that often amount to imprisonment and attempted rape.  <br />There are many noteworthy issues in \\"Pamela,\\" first of all being the figuration of the word \\"virtue.\\"  In the context of the novel, and its main character, the word has gender connotations, which align virtue with chastity and marriagability.  It is a somewhat radical concept that Pamela, as a common, if obscenely beatiful, servant, should be so assiduous and insistent on the value of her virginity.  Her parents tell her that she should rather die than forfeit her innocence.  In higher social circumstances, chastity has definite marriage value, whereasPamela, whose family is all but destitute, has no way to provide for her - her ability to marry is dependent to a great extent on remaining virtuous.  One of the things \\"Pamela\\" forces us to think about is whether men can or should be held to the same sexual moral standards as women, and accustom us to the idea of unequal (social and economic) relationships.  <br />Another important and valuable thing we get from \\"Pamela\\" is the idea of character and self as written things, as text.  Mr. B chides Pamela for writing about him, and the possibility that her letters circulate with disparaging comments on himself.  Of course, the more commonplace notion of employers giving \\"characters\\" of their servants, or recommendations makes Pamela's writings all the more interesting.  The fact that the vast majority of the novel consists of Pamela's writing - we get the clear message that it is the point of view of a young, lower class woman that gives us our ideas about everything in the novel.  The way that Pamela writes herself and those around her, including the vile and sexually-ambiguous Mrs. Jewkes seems to indicate the truth-value and propriety of Pamela's opinions and observations.  The fact that other characters in the novel read Pamela's letters is also important here, as they not only better understand themselves, but Pamela and her own motivations.  The way especially, that Pamela and Mr. B read and learn from each other throughout the novel, is fascinating. <br />Richardson would go on to further elaborate these themes in completely different social circumstances, and with a great deal more terror and anxiety in \\"Clarissa,\\" but Pamela has its own distinct charms and appeal.  In form and content, the influence of \\"Pamela\\" can be felt and appreciated from around the time of its publication (see Henry Fielding's \\"Shamela\\" and \\"Joseph Andrews\\") through to the 20th century and beyond (see \\"The Color Purple\\" by Alice Walker).  Important to note, though - this review pertains specifically to the 1740 first edition of \\"Pamela\\" published by Riverside.  There are significant differences, modifications in language and tone between this and, say, the 1801 edition published in the Penguin Classics.  Each has its own merits, so buy and read at your discretion!	2002-02-11
US	51177889	R35SP9LCF7JKX0	0140434828	380144361	An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	60	70	N	N	Locked Into Reason 18th Century Style	John Locke's 1698 &quot;Essay Concerning Human Understanding&quot; is one of the foundational texts of Western philosophy.  It is a phenomenal enquiry into how and why people become functional individuals.  Bringing into philosophy a developmental model of personal becoming, Locke drilled pre-Berkeleyan common sense into a growing capitalist nation, one which was already moving away from the absolutist model of government and viewing self in the world espoused by Thomas Hobbes in &quot;Leviathan.&quot;  While clearly building on and stepping on his predecessors, most notably Hobbes and Rene Descartes, Locke deals broadly with ideas, language, and how people come into knowledge, and sets the stage for a new phase of philosophy entering the 18th century.  <br />Locke begins the &quot;Essay&quot; by rejecting and dispensing with the notion of &quot;innate ideas,&quot; which basically says that we are born in possession of certain principles, elements of knowledge, or maxims that help us orient ourselves in the world.  Through long and drawn out (one downside of Locke is his insistency on detail and repetition) examples and arguments, he attempts to prove that when we are born, we have absolutely nothing intelligence-wise, to recommend us.  This is what is popularly referred to as the 'tabula rasa' theory, that when first born, our minds are like &quot;empty cabinets&quot; or &quot;white sheets&quot; of paper - which experience and experience only furnishes with our ideas about the world.  His goal here is to get people to question their assumptions about the world, to ask questions and decide for themselves based on reason and experience, how best to interact with the world. <br />Locke says that the only two sources of all human knowledge are sensation (that information which is passively thrust upon our senses) and reflection (when we consider and think about that sense data, and about our own thoughts).  From these &quot;simple ideas,&quot; we are able to combine and recombine thoughts to form &quot;complex ideas&quot; and use clear and distinct language to express them to other people.  This social aspect of this philosophy is something that really fascinated me about Locke.  While focusing on the individual's growing base of knowledge, he is all the while trying to orient people to functioning in society.  Saying that the end of all knowledge serves two purposes, viz., honouring God, and being morally responsible, Locke goes on to show how human life often works counter to these goals, with a view to correcting them.  <br />Another of his famous formulations, one all too familiar to Americans, as part of our national idealism, is that the basic state of nature of humanity consists in the &quot;pursuit of happiness.&quot;  Compared to Hobbes, for whom the state of nature consisted in the attempt to attain greater and greater power over others, Locke's state of nature seems relatively benign - however, he goes to great lengths to show how the pursuit of happiness often leads to reckless and wanton behaviours, ultimately destructive both to self and society.  The idea that we must examine our desires and discipline them to the greater good is something that many of us lose sight of, and is an element central to his system.  <br />Briefly then, a couple of other items that might be of interest to someone thinking about picking up Locke's &quot;Essay&quot;:  His philosophy of language is one that still has currency and influence on linguistic theory all the way to Saussure and the post-structuralists; Locke's manner of addressing cultural and gender diversity is progressive, but vexed, which makes for fascinating work in trying to determine his stances toward non-white European males.  Locke's constant invocation of gold in his examples can be maddening, which can only mean that there is some significance therein; and finally, his other hobby-horse, so-called &quot;monstrous births&quot; and their status in the human race bears heavily and still importantly on the debate over a woman's right to choose.  All this and so much more awaits you - over 600 pages of Lockean goodness.  Beware though, Locke is extremely repetitive and can get bogged down in what, for us to-day, may seem common sense notions.  But this is quintessential reading, nonetheless, for everyone interested in the formation of the modern self.	2002-01-31
US	51177889	RBHYR37RGK7M0	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Terrifying and Exhilarating Journey	Paul Bowles' 1949 novel, \\"The Sheltering Sky\\" is a phenomenal, terrifying, and exhilarating journey into the depths (or surfaces?) of human existence.  That's a lot of work for a novel to do, but this one pulls it off.  This is a novel that deals with three Americans on the run from themselves, from each other, and from preconceived notions of identity.  Set in the aftermath of World War II, the novel exposes and disrupts firm ideas of national identities and international relationships - between the Americans, French colonials, Arabic African natives, and a wealth of other ethnic/national categories - and shows how they react to and resist each other.<br />\\"The Sheltering Sky\\" begins with Porter and Katherine Moresby, a married couple who have never stayed in any place too long, in a North African city, with the intention to casually move from one place to the next, idealistically hoping to stay away from \\"the places which had been touched by the war.\\"  Accompanied by their wholly annoying friend Tunner, they embark upon an unplanned meander southwards into the vast, forbidding Sahara.  The remainder of the novel shows these characters' adventures in Africa, and the resulting changes to their highly individual, naively constructed ideas about being-in-the-world.<br />Among other points of interest in \\"The Sheltering Sky,\\" one thing that particularly grabbed my attention was the omnipresence of the main characters' sense of cultural superiority.  Despite Port's early insistence that he is a 'traveler' and not a 'tourist,' he and his companions soon discover that knowledge of maps, hastily gathered information about the next town on the route, and knowledge of the French language are insufficient to acclimate them to their surroundings and insure their comfort.  The novel does an excellent job of disrupting cultural stereotypes, particularly of the region's Arabic inhabitants, as the travelers make their way south into the Sahara, further and further away from 'civilization' as they understand it.  It also forces us as readers to take into account the perceptions of what we consider foreign from the point of view of 'foreigners' in their own element.  <br />The journey southward exposes the characters increasingly to peril - threats of thievery, disease, and existential despair - and the environment plays a large role in this.  The sky itself, often characterized similarly to Ahab's 'pasteboard mask' in Melville's \\"Moby Dick,\\" as sheltering the characters from knowledge of the infinite, looms as a challenge to each of the characters.  Continual encounters with sand, heat, hills, and the difficulties of transportation complicate the experiences of Port, Kit, and Tunner.  The most independently mobile and problematic characters in the novel, the British/Australian Eric Lyle and his eternally irascible mother, provide an interesting counterpoint to the strictly-considered 'native' or inherently existing impediments to travel and stability.  <br />\\"The Sheltering Sky\\" is a very oppressive and depressing novel - but don't let that stop you from picking it up - sometimes oppression and depression are necessary to force us to reconsider our relationship to the world.  The novel is as vital and 'timeless' now as it was in 1949, and perhaps even more important now.  The philosophical, social, cultural, and geopolitical currents of Bowles' novel make \\"The Sheltering Sky\\" worth a careful read.	2002-01-29
US	51177889	R1S80L533WJG9U	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	88	97	N	N	Disgrace	J.M. Coetzee is one of those modern authors, who like Graham Greene (in my reckoning), is incapable of producing bad fiction.  Though alike in perhaps no other way, I am consistently amazed reading their novels at the high standard of literary quality they maintain.  That said, Coetzee's 1999 novel \\"Disgrace\\" is another outstanding performance.  It is an intensely human story, with a main character whose trials and tribulations seem to force readers to qualify their praise of the novel by making moral judgments on him.  Written in the sparsest imaginable prose, \\"Disgrace\\" manages to convey a tremendous amount of information and emotion in the fewest possible words, making the novel apparently easy to read, but difficult to understand.  Dealing with issues of aging, gender, sex, power, race, scholasticism, family, and contemporary political and economic scenearios, Coetzee's novel transcends its South African setting, capable of speaking to practically any audience.<br />\\"Disgrace\\" tells the story of David Lurie, a 52 year old English professor with literally nothing going for him - His teaching is uninspired, his scholarly output is uninteresting, his department has been gradually phased out, and he gratifies his baser urges once a week with the same prostitute.  Spotting this prostitute, Soraya, out one day with her children, David himself is spotted, and his comfortable, prosaic routine is shattered.  He begins an affair with Melanie, a student in his Romanticism course.  Brought up on charges of sexual impropriety, David resigns from his university position, and moves to the hinterlands to live with his daughter Lucy, a homesteading farmer and animal caregiver.  The remainder of the novel follows David's attempts to put some semblance of a life together.<br />David's interactions with others frame his post-teaching life.  David's problems stem from his high, even standoffish self-regard as an intelligent man, closed off from mainstream society and its traditionaldifficulties.  The fraught socio-economic relationship between Lucy and her ambitious neighbour, Petrus, is especially trying in the aftermath of South African Apartheid.  Animals play a large part in David's reacculturation - Lucy and her friend, Bev Shaw, are involved in amateur doctoring and anaesthetizing sick animals - David is forced to consider in a profound way the relationship and likenesses between humans and beasts in the modern age.  On the animal tip, David's anxieties also involve human sexuality - in the aftermath of his school scandal and his uncertainties surrounding his daughter and his genetic legacy, David must rethink sex, love, and life.<br />Scholastically, \\"Disgrace\\" is informed heavily by David's professional interest in Romantic Era poetry.  His personal interest in writing a chamber opera on Byron and various telling references to and citations of Wordsworth throughout the novel provide a literary framework for the novel.  It suggests that David's quest for renewal both begins in and must escape his 18th and 19th century studies in order to reconcile himself to the changing modern world.  <br />\\"Disgrace\\" is a novel I could keep talking and talking about.  When I first finished reading it, I had an extremely unusual reaction.  It may be pretentious to say, but I feel that this is the kind of novel that carries within it so many important issues and universal themes, that it may well eventually take a place in literary history occupied by the likes of \\"The Great Gatsby,\\" one of those novels that our children and their children will be reading and studying well into the future.  In short, Coetzee's \\"Disgrace\\" is an essential novel.	2002-01-23
US	51177889	R2A77CFTCKJGEY	0618129111	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Resurgence of the Hobbits	The title of Tolkien's third part of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is both true and misleading.  It points away from the heroism of the minor characters who carry all three parts of the Ring Saga, and it points to the tragic nature of the heroic epic.  The dark and hopeless tone of the first two parts of the novel are fully realized and brought to a bright, if overcast conclusion in &quot;The Return of the King.&quot; Despite my bleak overview, the plot and characters are still masterfully rendered as the epic concludes.<br />&quot;The Return of the King&quot; begins, as does its predecessor, &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; with everything in chaos.  Here, the Fellowship of the Ring is further fractured - Merry departs with the newly-resuscitated wizard Gandalf for the beseiged fortress of Minas Tirith (the primary fortress of Gondor) to rejoin the valiant Pippin; Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas, and the Riders of Rohan pursue supernal aid on the Paths of the Dead; meanwhile, Sam faces despair as Frodo is borne away by a band of Orcs out of the dark maze of Cirith Ungol.  Tolkien's plotting is fantastic, even Dickensian, as characters separate, reunite, and coincidences and chance govern the fate of Middle-earth.  The action of &quot;The Return of the King&quot; involves Gandalf and Aragorn's attempts to stave off the elimination of their patchwork defense at the hands of Sauron, desperately trying to buy time for Frodo to complete his mission.<br />Unfortunately, for me, the intensity of the denouement necessitates Tolkien to privilege, in the main, plot over character development in &quot;The Return of the King.&quot;  Where character does govern the story, as with the first two parts of the Ring Saga, minor characters manage to take precedence over the huge scale of the action in which they move.  In this context, &quot;The Return of the King&quot; belongs to two little hobbits, virtually overlooked by everyone in the novel, Merry and Sam - their efforts and concerns make them the most human and fully-realized characters in the third part of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;<br />The legacy of &quot;The Return of the King,&quot; is just that - the title - the consolidation of power by Men - as the final confrontations between the forces of good and evil envelop dwarves, elves, and hobbits alike, Men begin to assume a place of leadership and control.  Herein is the melancholy of the Ring Saga and of part three in particular - this is what Tolkien offers his readers, 50 years after the epic was first published.  As important to-day as it was in the aftermath of World War II, what do we of the 'race of Men' do to make our world habitable?  Tolkien's final installment of the Ring Saga implores us, the legatees of a fictional, fantasy world to act, as rather ordinary human beings, to be welcoming and hospitable to each other in this Dark Age; to reconcile our differences and somehow find lasting peace.  Whether we are judged as Gandalf or Saruman, as Sam or Gollum is in our hands.  It is a heavy burden, but one which Tolkien asks us to embrace.e them the most human and fully-realized characters in the third part of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;<br />The legacy of &quot;The Return of the King,&quot; is just that - the title - the consolidation of power by Men - as the final confrontations between the forces of good and evil envelop dwarves, elves, and hobbits alike, Men begin to assume a place of leadership and control.  Herein is the melancholy of the Ring Saga and of part three in particular - this is what Tolkien offers his readers, 50 years after the epic was first published.  As important to-day as it was in the aftermath of World War II, what do we of the 'race of Men' do to make our world habitable?  Tolkien's final installment of the Ring Saga implores us, the legatees of a fictional, fantasy world to act, as rather ordinary human beings, to be welcoming and hospitable to each other in this Dark Age; to reconcile our differences and somehow find lasting peace.  Whether we are judged as Gandalf or Saruman, as Sam or Gollum is in our hands.  It is a heavy burden, but one which Tolkien asks us to embrace.	2002-01-02
US	51177889	R3SK453PCSZ5Z8	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Things Fall Apart	Chinua Achebe's 1959 novel, &quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; is an extraordinarily well written and moving work.  It explores the traditions and cultural practices of the Ibo people of Nigeria in Western Africa at a moment of dramatic, astounding, horrific  transition.  Achebe provides us with a narrative seen through the perspective of Okonkwo, a man of quality and power in his village.  At the same time, Achebe's deep knowledge of European and American literature and the effects of European cultures on the native culture of Nigeria courses through the novel.  <br />&quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; begins with the recounting of Okonkwo's history - his rise from a family with a poor, indolent father to being a wealthy and successful farmer, warrior, and leader.  When a neighbouring village offends his own, Okonkwo represents his villages interests in a conference, in which retribution returns with Okonkwo in the form of Ikemefuna, who is sentenced to death, but forms a vital link in Okonkwo's strictly run household between himself and his own son, Nwoye.  The action of the novel follows the ramifications of the culturally-demanded execution of Ikemefuna on Okonkwo and his family.<br />Achebe's novel shows an astute sense of awareness of the various political structures of Ibo society.  Particularly, gender relations are brought into high relief throughout the novel - the councils led by men; their rank and status signalled in part by the number of wives a man has; and by Okonkwo's insistent, but shielded love for his daughter Ezinma, whom he continually wishes was a man.  Relationships between families are complicated with the coming of European colonists whose Christianity and industry endanger the Ibo way of life.<br />With tightly controlled narrative and emotionally understated elegance, Achebe's novel presents a proud individual, Okonkwo, representing the final undisturbed generation of a long-lived people.  His internal and external struggles are compelling and forthe receptive reader, potentially devastating.  A brilliant novel.	2001-12-28
US	51177889	RS8TQDMIRXXKQ	0618129030	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Introductory Volume to Tolkien's Epic	&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; the first volume of Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; taken for what it is, is a beautiful work, and an excellent introduction to an amazing modern epic.  Don't come to &quot;Fellowship&quot; expecting high adventure and fast-paced action - an introduction is what it is, in every sense of the term.  Tolkien spends a great deal of time in &quot;Fellowship&quot; to recapitulate the history of the Ring in his prequel novel, &quot;The Hobbit.&quot;  In large parts of this volume, Tolkien goes to great lengths to introduce his readers to the various types of people found in Middle-earth; dwarves, elves, hobbits, and men.<br />&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; begins with Bilbo Baggins, the hero of &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; now an elderly recluse, pondering a movement out of the Shire, sixty years after his adventure.  To the dismay of his most immediate family, the Sackville-Bagginses, Bilbo has made one of his nephews, Frodo Baggins, the sole heir of his estate and fortunes.  The day Frodo comes of age, his 33rd birthday, the same day as Bilbo's 111th birthday, Bilbo orchestrates an insanely massive party, and disappears.  Frodo's primary legacy from Bilbo is the Ring - about 20 years later, Gandalf, a mysterious and revered wizard, appears to inform Frodo that trouble is brewing in lands outside of the secluded Shire, and that the Ring is the cause.  Three of his friends in tow, Frodo leaves the Shire, his quest, to make a party of nine, and attempt to destroy the Ring.  The action of the novel concerns the formation of the party, the Company, or Fellowship of the Ring.<br />The long, detailed histories and songs of each group of people in Middle-earth featured throughout &quot;Fellowship&quot; can seem needlessly intricate - however, I think them to be the most valuable and beautiful parts of &quot;Fellowship&quot; as an introduction.  The poetry is simply, but variously metered and rhymed - their most important function, it seems, is to indicate largely pre-writing, oral cultures in Middle-earth.  They provide us with speech patterns, characterizations, the values of cultural diversity and pride, and a sense of  kinship and tradition in the world of Middle-earth that Tolkien creates.  In &quot;Fellowship,&quot; characterization is mainly of this sort, providing an overview of the major players in the quest and how they are each effected by the rise of Sauron, the Dark Lord, and his evil desires.<br />The introductory volume to &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; sets an excellent scene for the larger epic action to follow - we are exposed to a wealth of social and political issues that affect the diverse population of Middle-earth.  The communal governance and barter economy of the Shire, the proud, but failing monarchies of the dwarves and fairies, and the collapsed monarchy of men present a complex web of social, economic, and military relationships between disparate peoples.  It is absolutely fascinating to examine the ways in which relations between the various peoples grow, change, strengthen, fade, and reform during the novel, and especially within the Fellowship itself.  For example, one of the most moving relationships in &quot;Fellowship&quot; and the epic as a whole is between Gimli the dwarf and Legolas the elf - two individuals from societies with a fraught history.<br />This is quest-romance at its very best, and volumes 2 and 3 more than repay a close reading of &quot;Fellowship.&quot; There are many wonderful and captivating characters that populate the first volume - the cheerfully esoteric Tom Bombadil, the spectacularly magical Galadriel among them - who compensate for the first part's lack of intense action.  I would reiterate one fact about &quot;Fellowship&quot; - it is the slowest moving part of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; - the fact that it covers 11 months of time is but one indication of its sprawl and attention to detail.  The last 50 years of continuous reprintings of the Ring saga prove that despite Tolkien's lack of real stylistic elegance at times, and the pace of the first volume, that &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; is both enjoyable and worth reading.ontinuous reprintings of the Ring saga prove that despite Tolkien's lack of real stylistic elegance at times, and the pace of the first volume, that &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; is both enjoyable and worth reading.	2001-12-28
US	51177889	R2K81UAWCMJAJG	0618129081	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Character Driven - The Best Part of the Ring Saga	&quot;The Two Towers,&quot; the second part of Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; delivers on the promise and potential of epic-scale action and adventure carried over from the cliffhanger ending of &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring.&quot;  With the dispersal of the Fellowship, Tolkien takes a different narrative tact in the second part of the Ring saga.  The Fellowship now in three units - Frodo and Sam; Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas; Merry and Pippin - Tolkien deals with each unit separately, preferring for the sake of unity to relate the fortunes of each unit for long stretches.  Herein is the great triumph of Part 2 - the development of character and involvement with each that the segmenting of the Fellowship allows.  Here we get depth and feeling, along with high action and truly epic scope.<br />&quot;The Two Towers&quot; begins with the aftermath of Boromir's attack on Frodo in an attempt to wrest the One Ring from him.  The Fellowship disbands - Frodo and Sam leave to try to destroy the Ring on their own, Merry and Pippin try to find them, only to be captured by Orcs, and Gimli, Legolas, and Aragorn attempt to track down Merry and Pippin.  The apparently dead Gandalf reappears to the third party, stronger and more committed to the goal than ever.  The split action of the novel, with regard to the title, concerns the ways that the members of the Fellowship deal with the major sources of crisis facing Middle-earth:  the ambitious wizard Saruman at the Tower of Orthanc in Isengard and the Dark Lord, Sauron at the Tower of Barad-dur in Mordor.<br />One cannot get too excited about the virtues of &quot;The Two Towers.&quot; The relationships between the characters are so finely rendered - for my part, the job that Tolkien does in developing Merry, Pippin, Gimli, and Legolas is magical in itself.  Merry and Pippin are underestimated and undervalued by everyone, including themselves.  The illumination and discussions of their doubts, fears, and modest desires against the spectacular backdrop of millennial conflict is so understated, that the two hobbits actually bring a sense of prosaic normalcy to Tolkien's epic fantasy.  Gimli the dwarf and Legolas the elf, members of long-antagonized peoples, thrust together by the common goal of the Fellowship, is another fascinating pairing.  The contrast in their characters and the process by which they become bosom friends is lovely to behold and offers one of the great homosocial relationships I've encountered in English literature.  In both cases, throughout &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; Tolkien continually privileges the individual over the national, an approach which forces war and conflict to appear as it should, as an unnatural and horrific evil in the world.<br />The minor characters add colour and vibrant life to &quot;The Two Towers.&quot; Good characters, like the melancholy Ents; evil characters, like the eternally-infighting Orcs; and ambivalent characters, like Wormtongue and Smeagol - all contribute to the development of the primary characters, while Tolkien carefully allows these minor figures the dignity of their own histories, actions, conversations, and fleshing out.  All of this adds to the complexity of the Ring saga and shows more of the intricate social and even ecological effects that the anticipated War of the Ring will have on Middle-earth.<br />&quot;The Two Towers&quot; is literally and figuratively the heart of the Ring saga.  Rich in content, detail, and action, here, Tolkien's epic vision is most fully realized.  Choice is a major theme of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; as a whole, and, again, in the many individual, minute choices made by the characters throughout Part 2, Tolkien allows us to see how the fate of people and nations can hang on the most seemingly insignificant choices.  In the scope of an epic, Tolkien stresses the importance of the individual and of tolerance and patient judgment in decision making.  Overall, my favourite of the three parts of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;ree parts of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;	2001-12-28
US	51177889	R1UPX76LUBBBQ6	0822319187	422836393	Feminist Accused of Sexual Harassment (Public Planet Books)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	A Provocative Appeal	Jane Gallop's 1997 tract, &quot;Feminist Accused of Sexual Harrassment,&quot; is not meant to be an apology for her run in with academic and legal bureaucracies.  The tract is not criticism nor critical theory as such.  Instead, Gallop gives us an intensely personal overview and examination of her involvement in feminism, culturally and scholastically, since her exposure to the movement in the early 1970s.  Gallop's writing is casual, even colloquial, and addresses the various socio-sexual facets of the student-professor relationship, and how they have changed between the early 70s and to-day.  <br />In 1992, Gallop was served notice that she had been accused by two former students of hers of sexually harrassing them.  As a feminist, Gallop discusses the initial strangeness in perception that this may generally cause:  the fact that most harrassment cases are normally male to female, not female to male, or female to female.  She looks at the history of the feminist movement and sexual harrassment as its legacy from the late 1980s and early 1990s.  Gallop talks about her explicitly sexual relationships with her own professors as a student, and with students as a professor herself.  Making clear that since she began dating her eventual husband, she has completely stopped having these explicit relationships with students, Gallop details the important ways that relationships between students and professors can yet be erotically-charged.  <br />Gallop's defiance of the academic and professional establishment may come off looking like willing ignorance or wistful naivete, but an undercurrent of anger and disappointment runs throughout the tract.  Gallop laments the apparent cold distance and rigid formality being fostered in the current environment of academia.  She asks if it should be the province of decor and propriety to decide how professors influence students and how students (especially graduate students) select and respond to the professors who guide their development.  <br />While there is in the tract some longing for the days of yore and this is, above all, the personal and intimate reflections of one person, it is important to remember that Gallop does not ask every reader to agree with her assessments or abide by her conclusions.  Gallop makes quite clear at the outset that her goal in placing this work before the public is simply to encourage its readers to reexamine the erotics of education - for feminists to reconsider the initial projects of feminism - and for each reader to decide if and how they will allow their every move to be overdetermined by needlessly oversensitive bureaucratic and legal manipulations.  &quot;Feminist Accused of Sexual Harrassment&quot; is meant to provoke thought and discussion - those who would levy judgments against Gallop without pondering her arguments or talking about them in some kind of community risk missing the point entirely.	2001-12-27
US	51177889	R2PAEH724PJ839	0140434151	569473707	Emma (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I Doat - Doat - I Say, on Jane Austen!	I am a burgeoning literary scholar, so it may be rather unfashionable, as I am told, to say that I am a Janeite - though I have never gone so far as to throw a tea-party in her honour, I will say that I am exceeding fond of her novels, her style, her characters, and her corrective social satire.  If she were not dead, lo, these last 185 years, I would positively send her an elegantly written letter declaring my love.  At any rate.<br />&quot;Emma&quot; is a fine novel, as though it lacked only my approbation to make it so.  In it, Austen explores the vagaries of the marriage plot in the way only Austen can, with all the humour and satiric bite of which she is capable.  She imagines a solipsistic community, Highbury, &quot;a crowd in a little room,&quot; if you will, where everyone knows everyone else's business, and Emma Woodhouse, the 21 year old mistress of Hartfield, presides socially over all.  Through and around Emma's point of view, Austen examines the various social, class, and economic relationships that hold the community together.<br />&quot;Emma&quot; begins with a very Doodian rhexis - the cut - Emma Woodhouse and her sedentary old father's society is broken up by the marriage of Emma's governess/best friend, Miss Taylor.  Creating a sort of void in Emma's life, a newcomer to Hartfield, a 17 year old girl named Harriet Smith, becomes the intimate friend and a reclamation project of sorts for Emma.  Emma, convinced the &quot;natural daughter of somebody&quot; must be, like Fielding's Tom Jones, related to someone of wealth and influence, tries tirelessly to play the matchmaker, filling Harriet's head with delusions of grandeur.  Throughout the novel, Emma must face the chastisements of her landed neighbour, Mr. Knightley, the quiet support of Mrs. Weston (Taylor), and the temptations of a relationship of her own, while learning the limitations of her own understanding of the world in which she lives.<br />As in most of Austen's novels, &quot;Emma&quot; focuses on the changing nature of the English economy, and how it trickles into even the most secluded of English towns, forcing a reckoning and acknowledgment of the shift in English society from primarily aristocratic hierarchy to the moneyed-middle classes.  That Emma is a young woman indicates that the transition must happen immediately, with the present generation, which is difficult, especially from Emma's privileged, though not exactly aristocratic vantage point, to understand and accept.  The intrusion on Emma's peace by such characters as the young, ambitious vicar of Highbury, Mr. Elton, the up and coming interests of the merchant Cox family, the industrious farmer, Robert Martin, and the incessant bombast of Miss Augusta Hawkins (and her associations with Bristol, epicenter of the British slave-trade) provide a range of perspectives on the possibilities of the rising and increasingly influential middle classes - and the impact they have, even in so small a village as Highbury.  Austen asks us to read the microcosm as in some ways, importantly representative of the macrocosm of England.<br />I think in all of these points of interest, at least to me, I've forgotten completely to say how deftly Austen presents these critical issues with such decided humour, grace of style, and flawless execution of plot and character development, as to make the most glaring philsophical and social issues seamlessly blend into the comic forefront of the novel!  One finds it difficult not to laugh straight through the first three or four chapters altogether.  Her characters, from the delightfully disturbing hypochondriac Mr. Woodhouse, to the initially unreadable Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax (who must foreshadow Jane Eyre), and the irrepressibly vociferous Miss Bates - are all well drawn and memorable.  This review is getting really long and pretentious now, so I'll stop - go, start reading &quot;Emma&quot; this instant.	2001-11-28
US	51177889	R3RI9MYOFZ2XMW	0141180250	766250177	Passing	Books	4	63	67	N	N	Passing	Nella Larsen's 1929 novella, &quot;Passing,&quot; is an incredible, dark exploration of the lengths to which people go to secure personal happiness.  Coming out just four years after &quot;The Great Gatsby,&quot; &quot;Passing&quot; can be seen in more than one way as the Harlem Renaissance's response to and a parallel text of Fitzgerald's acknowledged masterwork.  Not to limit Larsen's skills by strict comparison to &quot;Gatsby,&quot; &quot;Passing&quot; should of course, be considered on its own merits, which are considerable.  Difficult to place as simply the work of a talented black woman writer, Larsen's &quot;Passing&quot; is a novella with carefully nuanced and complicated views of racial, sexual, economic, and more generally personal and national identity.  Indeed, the narrative is right to sugges that these are inextricable and forces the reader to adjudicate the struggle.<br />&quot;Passing&quot; begins with a letter received.  By inviting us to peer into the contents of personal correspondence in the grand tradition of the epistolary novel, then denying us the full contents, the reader must come to terms with a limited, and even deceptive narrative style.  Irene Redfield refuses to open a letter she has just gotten from a childhood acquaintance with whom she has had only brief communication with since, Clare Kendry.  Irene then reflects on the time, two years ago, when she happened unexpectedly upon Clare at a rooftop restaurant in Chicago.  As 'black' women who can 'pass' for 'white,' they meet at this decidedly white restaurant, after gauging each other in confused silence.  Renewing their acquaintance, Irene is shocked to learn that since her young adulthood, Clare has 'passed' as white, even marrying a wealthy white businessman, whose violent racism forces Clare to disavow her ethnic 'identity.'  The remainder of the novella details the strained relationship that forms between Irene and Clare, and the differences as well as striking similarities thatstructure their personal and social adult lives.<br />The ways that minor characters interact with the two heroines force us to question the long standing American discourse of racial 'identity.'  Brian Redfield, Irene's husband, and Jack Bellew, Clare's husband, for instance, seem on the surface to be drastically opposite characters - Brian, fed up with the way that black people are treated in America, has a long cherished fantasy of relocating his family to Brazil, the ur-text, if you will, of African slavery in the New World, where he believes his sons can be raised without the torments of ethnic conflict in post-reconstruction and post-World War America.  Bellew, an avowed white racist, detests the very thought of black people, and his pet name for Clare, &quot;Nig,&quot; troubles for the reader the very notions of Bellew's construction of his own identity.  Irene and Clare's marriages to these two men challenge them and the reader to consider the strained family dynamics of the 'traditional' marriage, and their own awkwardly constituted and expressed relationship with each other.<br />&quot;Passing&quot; manages to both cover and conceal a wealth of issues facing America in the decades preceding the national Civil Rights, Anti-War, and Sexual Revolution movements of the latter half of the 20th century.  In the short space of a novella, Larsen produces a work of extraordinary power and indeterminacy.  That the issues she addresses are still of a piece with our own present-day social landscape, so &quot;Passing&quot; remains a vital and important literary artifact.	2001-11-11
US	51177889	R3FZ2G7YVT6TQ3	0870238019	656649650	Literary Publishing in America, 1790-1850	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Foundational text in History-of-the-Book Criticism	William Charvat's 1959 exploratory study, &quot;Literary Publishing in America, 1790-1850,&quot; is considered by many important people to be a, if not the, foundational text in what is commonly called History-of-the-Book literary study.  In it, Charvat claims that the initial phase of widespread literary publishing in America, from 1790 (the year of the first American copyright law) through 1850 (the establishment of a transnational railroad) is significant, in that it shows the logistical and economic difficulties in permitting an arena for a truly American literary tradition to flourish.  An Emersonian project of historical recovery, Charvat goes to great lengths in an admittedly brief work to detail the circumstances surrounding the birth of American literary publishing.  Charvat's study organizes itself around three central elements in early American publishing:  the 'axis' of publishing, New York and Philadelphia, the economic relationship between authors and their publishers, and the notion that genre was an important, if not critically vital element in determining what got published in the early days of the American Republic.  <br />For the centers of publishing, Charvat determines that New York and Philadelphia's access and control of major waterways in the decades before the transnational railroad meant that publishers in these two cities were responsible for gauging, responding to, and even setting the standards for literary taste and acceptability.  In the section on authors and publishers, Charvat details the economic difficulties in getting new American authors and their works out to a general public.  This involves not only such basic determinants as whether the author himself was fiscally capable of funding the publication of his own works, but the ways in which works were physically published (the quality of paper, printing, binding, etc), and how early American authors were forced to deal with cheap reprinting of new and 'canonical' works from British authors.  In the final section, on genre, Charvat says that a work's genre was yet another constraint facing developing American authors.  He discusses conventional 18th and early 19th century notions of poetry as the most highly-regarded form of literary art, and the ways in which early American novelists were beset by physical constraints on length and content.  Charvat says that indeed, history was the most popular genre of book economically in the early republic.  <br />A fascinating, if sometimes technical work, Charvat set a standard in this particular type of literary study, and opened doors for succeeding generations of literary historical scholars.  Charvat himself admits that his intent, in a typically New Critical fashion, is not to displace the content and inherent literary qualities of any early American production as the most important and worthy elements of study.  <br />However, as Michael Winship's extremely useful and lucid Afterword posits, Charvat's study has given us new ways to appreciate American literary history and studies of individual texts in context.  Winship cites the importance of realizing the 'dynamics' of publishing in literary study - determining how, why, and even if, texts are received by contemporary audiences, and how that can colour our own present-day readings of literature, and not simply that of the United States.  Winship also provides a broad and well-annotated bibliography, laying out the progress and impact of Charvat's book and its inheritors since its own publication.	2001-11-11
US	51177889	REU64LETEYUAA	0140430091	694327261	The History of Tom Jones (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	The Story of a Foundling	It was about time I read &quot;Tom Jones.&quot;  Fielding's 1749 novel gives us a panoramic view of 18th century British life.  Its titular hero journeys among the low- and high-born trying to find his way in a world in which he occupies a precarious position.  Fielding uses the sprawl of 800 pages to explore a multitude of social, political, and literary issues, gluing them together with an exquisitely outlandish, fully embodied sense of humour.  <br />The action of the novel begins with a view of the Allworthy family, a landed gentleman, Thomas Allworthy and his sister, Bridget.  Into this family is dropped an orphan, a foundling - a child, if you will, of questionable parentage.  This child, Tom Jones, is raised alongside Bridget's child, Blifil, as relative equals.  Both are tutored by two ideologues, the philosopher Square and the theologian Thwackum.  Jones is a precocious, free-spirited youngster, spoiled by Allworthy while Blifil, the heir apparent to the estate, becomes the favourite pupil and spoiled accordingly by his mother.  As the two youths age, Tom develops a fondness for the neighbour's daughter, Sophia Western.  <br />Tom's sexual development begins to get him in trouble, as it tends to throughout the novel, and as a result of one such incident, coupled with the goading jealousy of Blifil, Tom is driven out of the Allworthy home, left to seek his fortunes in the world.  Meeting his supposed father, Partridge, on the road, the two begin a quixotic ramble across England.  Sophia, meanwhile, pressured into marrying Blifil, runs away from home, beginning her own voyage of discovery.<br />&quot;Tom Jones&quot; begins with the narrator likening literature to a meal, in which the paying customer comes expecting to be entertained and satisfied.  All 18 books of &quot;Tom Jones&quot; start out with such authorial intrusions, each cluing us into the writer's craft, his interactions with his public, and various other topics.  This voice is actually sustainedthroughout the novel, providing a supposedly impartial centre of moral value judgments - each of which seems to tend toward enforce Fielding's project of a realistic, and yet, didactic portrayal of a world full of flawed characters.<br />Some of the issues the novel deals most extensively with are modes of exchange, anxieties over female agency, and the power of rumour and reputation.  Exchange and the ways in which value is figured include a wide range of goods - money, bodies, food, and stories - and are integral to the story.  The treatment of women is a great concern in &quot;Tom Jones&quot;:  from Partridge's perpetual fear of witchcraft to the raging arguments between Squire Western and his sister over how Sophia should be treated, to general concerns about sexuality and virtue.  A novel that can be in turns hilarious, disturbing, and provoking, &quot;Tom Jones&quot; is never dull.  Despite its size, the pace of the novel is extremely fast and lively.  So, get thee to a superstore and obtain thyself a copy of this excellent and highly entertaining novel.	2001-10-24
US	51177889	RVVFMY69YPCBR	0140432159	479545350	Clarissa: Or the History of a Young Lady (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	130	135	N	N	One of the Seminal Novels in English	Samuel Richardson's massive 1747-8 novel, &quot;Clarissa,&quot; is not only the longest novel I've ever read, but one of the best and most complex.  Much like Richardson's first novel, &quot;Pamela,&quot; &quot;Clarissa&quot; deals with the torments of a virtuous young lady abducted by a rake/libertine (in modern parlance, a rapist) who submits the heroine to a series of trials.  Unlike Pamela, a lower class maiden, Clarissa is a member of an established and wealthy family.  This change in social situation allows Richardson to explore a host of new issues, with the primary goal of moral didacticism remaining intact between the two.<br />Clarissa Harlowe, the most beautiful and exemplary of her sex, is being imposed upon by her implacable family to marry one Mr. Solmes, a man of no mean fortune, but whose ethics, especially with regard to his own family, are suspect.  Simultaneously, Clarissa's sister, Arabella, has just rejected a proposal from one Robert Lovelace, the heir of a nobleman, educated and refined, but known for his libertinism - his tendency and enjoyment of seducing young women and then abandoning them.  Lovelace falls in love, or in lust, with Clarissa, and after he and Clarissa's brother James, heir to the Harlowe fortune, engage in a near fatal duel, Clarissa's continued correspondence with Lovelace becomes a major thorn in the side of the Harlowes' plans for Clarissa.  The Harlowes continue to urge the addresses of Mr. Solmes while vilifying Lovelace - Clarissa not approving of either - and when her family's insitence becomes insupportable to Clarissa, the utterly demonic Lovelace takes advantage, whisking her away from a seemingly inevitable union with Solmes.  Thus begins an absolutely terrifying journey for Clarissa through the darkness of humanity, as Lovelace plots and executes his seduction of the 'divine' Clarissa.  <br />An epistolary novel, &quot;Clarissa&quot; is written in the form of a series of letters spanning nine months, principallybetween Clarissa and her best friend and iconoclast, Anna Howe, and between Lovelace and a fellow libertine, John Belford.  Richardson's 'to the moment' style of writing gives a minute account of everything that happens to the main characters almost as it happens, giving the novel a highly dramatic sense of urgency.  The four major correspondents, as well as others, also give the novel a well-developed sense of perspective, as we get not only the events, but biased opinions and readings of all the other characters, making the events at times difficult to follow, but at the same time, marvelously rich and complex.  <br />Some of the most interesting facets of this novel are its interactions with the law, primarily inheritance law, the contrast between history and story, and at the forefront, the debate over gender roles in marriage.  Almost of a piece with the novel's legal issues, Richardson examines the vagueries of semantics - what do words mean?  How are words regarded and used differently by men and women?  Richardson also confronts the way we read and interpret 'truth' - in a book composed of letters, subjectively written and read, where can we look to for 'truth'?  <br />Among the characters in the novel, by far the most captivating and challenging in &quot;Clarissa&quot; is the aforementioned Anna Howe.  The ways she clashes with tradition and propriety throughout the novel are entertaining, and very much reminiscent of the eponymous heroine of Defoe's &quot;Moll Flanders.&quot;  An amazing and influential novel to say the least, anyone with a few weeks on their hands who is interested in the history of the novel in English should pick up and give &quot;Clarissa&quot; some serious attention, stat!	2001-09-28
US	51177889	R1B0V6TYXNO9P6	0140432930	41852070	Principles of Human Knowledge and Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Immaterialism and Common Sense	George Berkeley's early 18th century treatise &quot;Of the Principles of Human Knowledge&quot; was written in response to the current popular philosophical leanings of Locke, Descartes, Hobbes, Malebranche, and others. Berkeley's major problem with the philosophy of his age was in its materialist leanings. Berkeley at base had issues with the indefinite nature of philosophical terminology, and the ways in which the foundations of knowledge seemed to be centered on unknowable concepts like 'abstract truths,' 'matter,' and 'absolute' entities. The solution?<br />Berkeley reasons that philosophy has gotten away from common sense, and that the way to make philosophy and natural science more accessible is to use the vocabulary and understanding of the 'vulgar' masses. Berkeley's philosophy is called Immaterialism. He holds that the only things that can properly be said to exist are 'ideas' and 'spirits.' Ideas are all objects perceived by our five senses or by logic and inference from those objects. Spirits are our minds or souls, those things that perceive, think, and exercise will. He says that all other philosophical terminology only tends to confuse us. We cannot doubt the real existence of anything in the world, because we see, feel, hear, touch, and taste these things every day. What we can doubt are philosophical quandaries like abstract ideas - for existence, while we can think of a particular person in motion, we can neither conceive of a person in abstract nor of motion in general. This, Berkeley contends, is all that common sense gives to the plainest of people. Ordinary people do not doubt the existence of trees or gloves, nor do they conjecture about matter or substrata underlying the things they interact with everyday.<br />The 'Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous' serve to support the philosophical arguments that Berkeley made in the 'Principles.' Hylas is a materialist, while Philonous represents Berkeley's immaterialist argument. Their three dialogues are extremely entertaining and informative. They compliment the technical philosophy by providing concrete examples, which are many times missing from Berkeley's treatise. While the treatise and the dialogues can be read and understood on their own, the fullest appreciation of Berkelely comes from reading both. One limitation of Berkeley is that his 'vulgar' notions are almost too simplistic. He takes Occom's razor almost to the point of absurdity, which causes him to dispute notions like gravity, which these days one may well frown upon. Other than matters of advanced mathematical or scientific complexity, however, Berkeley's immaterialism seems, on the surface, to make great sense.<br />Another interesting facet of these two works is their religious component. An Anglican bishop, Berkeley makes use of his belief in God both to support his arguments, and uses immaterialist arguments to simply (far more simply than Descartes) prove the existence of God. Not quite an enthralling read, but, who reads philosophy to be enthralled? The arguments are interesting, the arguments well-supported, and possible objections deftly handled.	2001-08-24
US	51177889	R2Y8G14SEUIR8V	0140390626	981245374	Edgar Huntly, Or, Memoirs of a Sleep-Walker (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	34	N	N	What Lies Beneath	First published in 1799, Charles Brockden Brown's novel, &quot;Edgar Huntly&quot; is an insane masterpiece.  I love Brown.  I read this novel for the first time a few years ago, and thought it was about time to refresh my memory.  Set outside of Philadelphia in the final years of the 1780's, &quot;Edgar Huntly,&quot; like other of Brown's works, test the new American republic's capacity to govern while balancing the needs and desires of its culturally disparate inhabitants.  <br />The novel is purportedly a correspondence from the protagonist, Edgar Huntly, to his friend/love interest, Mary Waldegrave, in the aftermath of her brother's death.  Edgar is an educated, refined, enlightened young man, disconsolate upon the death of his friend.  An avid walker, Edgar frequently leaves the environs of his hometown, Solebury, returning to the scene of his friend's death, a large elm tree.  Near this tree late one evening, he spots a man, conspicuously lurking, burying something beneath the tree.  Suspecting this man, Clithero, of Waldegrave's murder, Edgar begins a career of surveillance and tracking, following Clithero to his residence and through the uncharted wildernesses that border his hometown.  What follows is Edgar's progress in discovering the truths behind the death of Waldegrave, the history of Clithero, and the foundations of his own self-control and rationality.<br />Brown deals with a number of issues throughout the novel current to late 18th century America, including the dispossession of Native Americans from their land, Irish immigration, and the instability of a newly formed nation.  Philosophically, Brown examines popular 18th century debates over the limits of sympathy, and the ability of sense, experiment, and observation to conclusively explain human nature.  In his preface to the novel, Brown says that his novel will not exploit the then-common motifs of gothic fiction.  Perhaps, but Brown, taking the example of William Godwin, moves the castles, dungeons, and murders of traditional gothic into the psyches of his characters.  Dementia, paranoia, and in this novel, at least, the uncontrollability of sleep-walking, constitute the largely internal threats to personal and national safety.  <br />So join Edgar, Clithero, Sarsefield, the Lorimers, Inglefield, Queen Mab, and an army of hostile natives, on an intricate, often horrifying romp through late 18th century America.  Brown's doubts and fears about living in the new nation will entrance and mortify you, and possibly make you consider putting yourself in restraints before you go to bed at night.	2001-08-23
US	51177889	R309GJ2GWA5Z6J	0140433139	219890586	Moll Flanders	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Moll Flanders	Daniel Defoe's 1722 novel, &quot;Moll Flanders,&quot; remains a fascinating imaginative work, and is in many ways more interesting than his famous first effort, &quot;Robinson Crusoe.&quot;  Having seen bits of two recent film adaptations in the last couple of months on television, and being a budding 18th century scholar, I decided it was time I picked up my own copy of &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; and see the actual product on its own terms.  A story no less about a castaway and delinquent than &quot;Crusoe,&quot; in &quot;Moll Flanders,&quot; Defoe attempts to set down the history of a woman with a wild and often desperate life.  A character of infinitely more interiority and reflection than Crusoe, Moll gives us through a first person narrative, a look into various stations of life in 18th century England and America.<br />The novel begins with a tip of the hat to that fine progenitor of the novel, &quot;Don Quixote,&quot; a Gines-like acknowledgment that Moll, as the author of her own story, cannot complete that story within the text of the novel, unless people can write when they are deceased.  Amusements aside, Moll begins her story as Crusoe begins his, with an immediate acknowledgment of the instability of the modern self - the corruption of her own name.  Born in Newgate prison, and having never known her mother, Moll finds herself among gypsies and landed gentry before settling in Colchester for the term of her youth.  Here, she founds her sense of social ambition, unusual even for Jane Eyre in the 19th century, as one in which she figures to be a gentlewoman by earning her own living.  Various mishaps and misadventures lead her through marriages, whoredom, and thievery as Moll attempts to find her place in the world as a woman of common birth.  Early on she learns the lessons that will aid her on her journey, viz., the value of money, quick wit, and a sense of her own sexuality.<br />While Defoe certainly does not sugar-coat the wrongs of woman in the early 18th century - delving deeply into issues of feminine helplessness before the law, the difficulties of procuring stable employment, and various reproductive issues such as adoption, abortion, and infant mortality - yet he maintains a consistent character of Moll as an extremely strong, adaptive, and resilient female character.  The most riveting facet of Moll throughout is her own sense of self-worth and importance, especially in her own history.  For instance, while chronicling an encounter with a former lover, Moll tells us that while his adventures are worth their own narrative, this is &quot;my story, not his.&quot;  Moll's strength in the midst of doubt, desperation, and general loneliness keeps the reader's constant interest and admiration.<br /> Defoe's exploration of inter-gender relationships are worthy of note themselves for the sheer variety of social, economic, and personal situations he includes in the novel.  The economic theme stands out among these, and provides a link back to the preoccupations of &quot;Robinson Crusoe.&quot;  Like Crusoe, Moll is always aware of the value of her personal possessions, and conscious of how to exploit and husband her resources to best advantage.  Also like Crusoe, &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; is keenly aware of the possibilities and drawbacks of English colonial ventures in America.  Defoe's efforts to link all these themes to the lot of the English prison population, the family unit, and indentured servants and African slaves, are all managed extremely well within the text of the novel.  For all this, &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; remains an entertaining, satisfying, relevant novel, and stands for me above &quot;Crusoe&quot; as a work of high literary value.ly 18th century - delving deeply into issues of feminine helplessness before the law, the difficulties of procuring stable employment, and various reproductive issues such as adoption, abortion, and infant mortality - yet he maintains a consistent character of Moll as an extremely strong, adaptive, and resilient female character.  The most riveting facet of Moll throughout is her own sense of self-worth and importance, especially in her own history.  For instance, while chronicling an encounter with a former lover, Moll tells us that while his adventures are worth their own narrative, this is &quot;my story, not his.&quot;  Moll's strength in the midst of doubt, desperation, and general loneliness keeps the reader's constant interest and admiration. <br /> Defoe's exploration of inter-gender relationships are worthy of note themselves for the sheer variety of social, economic, and personal situations he includes in the novel.  The economic theme stands out among these, and provides a link back to the preoccupations of &quot;Robinson Crusoe.&quot;  Like Crusoe, Moll is always aware of the value of her personal possessions, and conscious of how to exploit and husband her resources to best advantage.  Also like Crusoe, &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; is keenly aware of the possibilities and drawbacks of English colonial ventures in America.  Defoe's efforts to link all these themes to the lot of the English prison population, the family unit, and indentured servants and African slaves, are all managed extremely well within the text of the novel.  For all this, &quot;Moll Flanders&quot; remains an entertaining, satisfying, relevant novel, and stands for me above &quot;Crusoe&quot; as a work of high literary value.	2001-08-23
US	51177889	R1NTKR6HSZ2UQF	014044386X	741528612	Letters on England (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Common Sense, Forward Thinking, Double-Edged Satire	I'm starting to think that there is a certain clique of authors, to wit, Machiavelli, Nietzsche, Swift, and Voltaire, who have developed a popular perception that tragically limits or constrains their legacy in the world of to-day.  For Voltaire's part, when he is spoken of, it is generally in regard to &quot;Candide,&quot; certainly a great work, but not the be-all or end-all of his particular genius.  &quot;Letters on England,&quot; a series of musings on his exile in England from 1726-1729, is a work which gives a much different perspective on Voltaire from the cynical, suspected atheist we've all come to know and love.<br />The primary focal points of the &quot;Letters&quot; are comparsions of England and France in the realms of religion, politics, and the arts and sciences.  While Voltaire clearly criticizes the French institutions of his day, he does not intend us to look at England as the ideal society.  In religious matters, Voltaire derides the monolith of French Catholicism, acknowledging the relative harmlessness of English sectarianism - saying &quot;if there were only one relgion in England, there would be danger of despotism...but there are thirty, and they live in peace and happiness&quot;.  Politically, Voltaire admires the progress England has made since the Magna Carta, even though it means limited enfranchisement, and division of legislative power.  In the arts and sciences, Voltaire examines the ingenuity of philosophers like Bacon, Newton, and Locke, and the ability of authors like Shakespeare, Pope, Swift, Wycherley, and others, to make their reputations and livings largely independent of a feudal patronage system.  <br />Throughout the &quot;Letters,&quot; Voltaire privileges common sense, forward thinking, and right reasoning.  As I understand it, the main purpose of satire is as a social corrective.  Voltaire points out the flaws in both the French and English nations, not to be simply critical, but to encourage progress in thought, in science, and the institutions that govern civilized countries.  Voltaire was no revolutionary, mind you, but it is obvious throughout the text that he cares deeply about France and its international relations.  Voltaire looks so far ahead in his writing to anticipate our own current debates over health care (the availability of infant innoculation, and euthanasia), equal opportunity regardless of faith or race, and so on.  <br />For such a brief work, Voltaire covers a lot of intellectual ground in &quot;Letters on England&quot;.  His style, enthusiasm, sense of wonder, and incisive commentary makes this a non-fiction counterpart to Montesquieu's fictional &quot;Persian Letters&quot;.  While Voltaire himself dislikes and distrusts translations, I've always thought that if you can read a translation, react strongly to the material, and get the basic points, then the translation must be counted as successful.  Leonard Tancock's translation in this Penguin Classic edition must be counted by me, at least, as successful.  My admiration of Voltaire has been enhanced, and I feel just a little bit more enlightened.  &quot;Letters on England&quot; is an excellent work in any language.	2001-08-08
US	51177889	R13KNERU342FWL	0192833618	569473707	Persuasion (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Mature, Subtle, Less Constrained Austen	There is no doubt how I doat upon Jane Austen's novels.  Add &quot;Persuasion&quot; to the list.  Her last finished novel, published after Austen's death, &quot;Persuasion&quot; is a mature novel in more senses than one.  Our heroine, Anne Elliot, is in her late twenties, by far older than say, an Elizabeth Bennet (&quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot;) or an Emma Woodhouse (&quot;Emma&quot;).  In addition, Anne seems to have more freedom to move socially and personally than most of Austen's earlier heroines.  Within the restrictive pecking order that governs Austen's ficitional world, this is saying something, since Anne is often presented as limited by family and 'connexions'.  &quot;Persuasion&quot; is a subtle work, as Anne's actions generally take place outside of, and even in spite of, the fashionable circles her family frequents.  All of this combines to form a novel of understated depth and skill.<br />&quot;Persuasion&quot; begins in 1814 - turmoil unsettles the Elliot family of Kellynch-hall - Sir Walter Elliot and his eldest daughter, Elizabeth, live beyond their means upholding family and social pride, and are feeling pressure from creditors and friends to reconstitute their lifestyle.  Reluctantly renting their estate to an Admiral and Mrs. Croft, Sir Walter and his darling Elizabeth retreat to a smaller situation at the ultra-fashionable resort town of Bath.  Sir Walter's middle daughter, Anne, stays behind with an honored family acquaintance, Lady Russell, intending to join the rest of the family shortly.  <br />In retirement thus at Uppercross, Anne is shortly confronted by a change of society - including the return of two men of consequence in her past, a cousin and former heir to her father's estate, William Elliot, and Captain Frederick Wentworth, with whom she broke a long engagement eight years before.  Throughout the novel, Anne finds herself forced to negotiate her way through the flippant vanity of her father and sisters, the reserved judiciousnessof her adviser Lady Russell, and her unfortunate friend, Mrs. Smith, while contemplating the possibilities of reestablishing her family's estate with Mr. Elliot or rekindling her affections for Captain Wentworth.  <br />Having recently read &quot;The Romance of the New World&quot; by Joan Pong Linton, I found myself drawn in &quot;Persuasion&quot; to the overarching theme of middle class industry and social advancement versus the supposed inherent virtues of landed nobility.  With the exception of William Elliot, who only anticipates an inheritance, none of the novel's various suitors, Wentworth, Captain Benwick, Charles Hayter, etc., are directly linked to landed money.  Especially in the cases of Wentworth and Benwick, service in the Royal Navy is most often and most convincingly presented as an avenue for monetary, and increasingly, social advancement.  A brief scene in which the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple notices Captain Wentworth in a crowd is enough to show us the virtues and attractiveness of a self-made man in Austen's largely aristocratic (if minor aristocracy) fictional universe.  <br />There is in &quot;Persuasion,&quot; as in most of Austen, a good deal of time afforded to character development, especially in the context of what I like to call background-checks.  In &quot;Persuasion&quot; however, moreso than usual, Anne Elliot is largely left to herself to decide how to proceed in her own most sensitive matters.  That she operates outside of her family's regard, and that of her own trusted friend Lady Russell, makes her unique, strong, and more assertive and self-sufficient than many Austen heroines.  &quot;Persuasion&quot; is an excellent, intimate novel, with many exquisitely crafted moments of pain, pleasure, and humor.  It is one I cannot wait to read again.	2001-08-06
US	51177889	R3GJBUYVP7XQSD	0140437304	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	239	260	N	N	A Tale of Two Cities	The more Dickens I read, the more impressed I become at his skill as a writer. No matter the form, be it short, long, or a monolith like some of his best works, Dickens excels at changing his style of characterization and plot to fit whatever mode he writes in. &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; is one of his shorter novels, and he manages to make the most of out of the allotted space. The compression of the narrative sacrifices Dickens's accustomed character development for plot and overall effect, but what we get is still phenomenal.<br />&quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; begins in 1775, with Mr. Lorry, a respectable London banker, meeting Lucie Manette in Paris, where they recover Lucie's father, a doctor, and mentally enfeebled by an unjust and prolonged imprisonment in the Bastille. This assemblage, on their journey back to England, meets Charles Darnay, an immigrant to England from France who makes frequent trips between London and Paris. Upon their return to England, Darnay finds himself on trial for spying for France and in league with American revolutionaries. His attorney, Stryver, and Stryver's obviously intelligent, if morally corrupt and debauched, assistant, Sydney Carton, manage to get Darnay exonerated of the charges against him. Darnay, a self-exiled former French aristocrat, finds himself compelled to return to France in the wake of the French Revolution, drawing all those around him into a dangerous scene.<br />Dickens portrays the French Revolution simplistically, but powerfully, as a case of downtrodden peasants exacting a harsh revenge against an uncaring aristocratic, even feudal, system. The Defarge's, a wine merchant and his wife, represent the interests of the lower classes, clouded by hatred after generations of misuse. Darnay, affiliated by birth with the French aristocracy, is torn between sympathy for his native country in its suffering, and his desire to be free of his past.<br />&quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; is a novel driven by historical circumstance and plot, much like the works of Sir Walter Scott, wherein the characters themselves assert less agency, finding themselves forced to deal with the tide of epic events. Richard Maxwell's introduction to this newest Penguin edition does a good job outlining the themes of doubling and literary influence that Dickens works with. One specific influence I discerned in reading &quot;A Tale&quot; that Maxwell doesn't metion is Edmund Burke's &quot;Reflections on the Revolution in France,&quot; which if nothing else, gives the feeling that the rampant violence of the early revolution and the later Reign of Terror has brought about an irreversible change in human nature. While Dickens remains cautiously optimistic throughout the novel that France can recover, the tone of the novel speaks to the regression of humanity into a more feral, primal state, rather than advertise any real hope for its enlightened progress.<br />Despite the supposed dichotomy between England and France in the novel, Dickens seems to suggest throughout that there are no real differences, due to the way that human nature is consistently portrayed. With England in between two revolutions, American and French, Lucie's sensitivity early in the novel to hearing the &quot;echoing&quot; footsteps of unseen multitudes indicates a palpable fear that the &quot;idyllic&quot; or &quot;pastoral&quot; England he tries to portray is not exempt from the social discontent of America or France. In this light, stolid English characters like Miss Pross, Jerry Cruncher, and Jarvis Lorry appear to almost overcompensate in their loyalty to British royalty. In a novel that deals with death, religion, mental illness, I could go on and on for a week, but I won't. One of those novels whose famous first and last lines are fixed in the minds of people who've never even read it, &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; demands to be read and admired.rical circumstance and plot, much like the works of Sir Walter Scott, wherein the characters themselves assert less agency, finding themselves forced to deal with the tide of epic events. Richard Maxwell's introduction to this newest Penguin edition does a good job outlining the themes of doubling and literary influence that Dickens works with. One specific influence I discerned in reading &quot;A Tale&quot; that Maxwell doesn't metion is Edmund Burke's &quot;Reflections on the Revolution in France,&quot; which if nothing else, gives the feeling that the rampant violence of the early revolution and the later Reign of Terror has brought about an irreversible change in human nature. While Dickens remains cautiously optimistic throughout the novel that France can recover, the tone of the novel speaks to the regression of humanity into a more feral, primal state, rather than advertise any real hope for its enlightened progress. <br />Despite the supposed dichotomy between England and France in the novel, Dickens seems to suggest throughout that there are no real differences, due to the way that human nature is consistently portrayed. With England in between two revolutions, American and French, Lucie's sensitivity early in the novel to hearing the &quot;echoing&quot; footsteps of unseen multitudes indicates a palpable fear that the &quot;idyllic&quot; or &quot;pastoral&quot; England he tries to portray is not exempt from the social discontent of America or France. In this light, stolid English characters like Miss Pross, Jerry Cruncher, and Jarvis Lorry appear to almost overcompensate in their loyalty to British royalty. In a novel that deals with death, religion, mental illness, I could go on and on for a week, but I won't. One of those novels whose famous first and last lines are fixed in the minds of people who've never even read it, &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; demands to be read and admired.	2001-07-27
US	51177889	R2H5FYJ4LT8JH8	0521594545	979934194	The Romance of the New World: Gender and the Literary Formations of English Colonialism (Cambridge Studies in Renaissance Literature and Culture)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Creating the British Empire and the Bourgeois Self	In &quot;The Romance of the New World,&quot; Joan Pong Linton explores the ways in which fiction and non-fiction from the mid-1580's through the mid-1620's responded to England's earliest colonial ventures in America. Linton tracks the beginnings of what she sees as the literary formation of a proto-&quot;bourgeois&quot; ethic which utilizes the shifting standards of romance to cement a patriarchal model in both the domestic and political arenas.  Portrayals of Native Americans and English women serve as foils to establishing the dominance of the English male, at times even at the expense of Queen Elizabeth.  <br />Linton asserts that New World pamphleteers like Sir Walter Ralegh, Thomas Hariot, Sir Francis Drake, and John Smith, among others, use and adapt the tropes of romance to encourage new investors and adventurers to build interest in colonizing the New World.  The interplay between history and fiction is mutually affective on both fiction and non-fiction, as romance writers in poetry and prose alter the form and setting of traditional court romance to reflect social and economic changes in late Elizabethan England.  As English explorers like Drake and Ralegh leave the court to improve their fortunes and their social status, romance writers begin to change the ways that heroes alter their own fates through enterprise and action, moving away from the dalliance and intrigues of court. <br />Linton sees Edmund Spenser, author of &quot;The Faerie Queene,&quot; as a mediator in the transition between courtly romance and the romance of the bourgeois individual.  In her examinations of Spenser's &quot;Faerie Queene&quot; and &quot;Colin Clouts Come Home Againe,&quot; Linton argues that Spenser's familiarity with various colonial writings, including those of Ralegh result in a heightened sensitivity to the changing nature of the heroic in romance as well as to English imperial aspirations abroad.  Linton's most extensive treatments of Spenser are found in chapters 2and 5.  In chapter 2, Linton shows how Ralegh's written self-identification with Redcrosse and Guyon illustrate the changing face of the romance hero and act as justification and idealization of his colonial exploits.  In the context of the mutually transformative nature of literary and political discourses, Linton goes on to show how Spenser defends Ralegh in &quot;Colin Clout&quot; and manages to invest the aims of empire with notions of Protestant propriety.  Chapter 5 discusses &quot;Faerie Queene, book 6&quot;'s presentation of Serena, Calepine and the cannibals in the context of English colonial encounters with Native Americans.  A book of equal interest to Renaissance, Spenserian, and Early American scholars, Linton's &quot;The Romance of the New World&quot; is an invaluable critical work.	2001-07-24
US	51177889	R39CLP4M7KRKRA	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Scholarly and Literary Intrigue and Romance	A.S. Byatt's &quot;Possession&quot; has been on my out-of-control to-read list for almost two years.  I was fortunate lately that &quot;Possession&quot;'s turn came up and I got the opportunity to read it.  &quot;Posession&quot; is a fabulous novel that takes place in two eras (19th and 20th centuries) and deals intensely with relationships - between individuals personally, professionally, romantically, and between cultures over time.  The primary storyline has Roland Michell and Maud Bailey, two relatively young Victorian scholars, investigating the possibility of a before-unknown relationship between the poets that they respectively specialize in, Randolph Henry Ash and Christabel LaMotte.  The correspondence, diaries, and anecdotes they pore over develop into a second major storyline as Ash and LaMotte become as palpable characters as Michell and Bailey.<br />In the mid-1980's, Roland Michell is a dissatisfied literary scholar, struggling to find real employment, and wholly consumed by his study of R.H. Ash.  He happens upon a letter from Ash to a mysterious woman which could change the face of Ash research.  Intrigued by what this discovery could mean to his career, he enlists the help of Maud Bailey, for whom a relationship between LaMotte and Ash could be of similar importance.  They are forced by the hostility of the literature profession to keep their findings secret from their colleagues and superiors, and start an obsessive chase all over England and France to piece together the story of Ash and LaMotte.  Over time, life begins to imitate scholarship and art, as Roland and Maud find each other in their work.<br />Byatt does an Anthony Burgess-quality job appropriating the language of mid- to late-Victorian England in the Ash-LaMotte letters, journals, etc.  Creating an entire body of supposedly literary poetry (male and female) as well as correspondence and diaries is highly impressive and shows an extraordinary range of knowledge and skill.  She does excellent work in keeping the language of the two eras separate, and what is tougher, making the language of literary criticism for the most part accessible to a broad audience.  <br />Not to be gender biased, but it seems one part where Byatt takes a little too much license with the 19th century is in making all of her major Victorian women characters, LaMotte, Blanche Glover, and Sabine de Kercoz, all into hardcore Wollstonecraftian feminists. Especially considering their disparate backgrounds, minor aristocrat, would-be governess, and sheltered French girl, this is kind of hard to take.  Maybe this is an acknowledgment of LaMotte's influence on her immediate acquaintances, but it does seem a little farfetched even for the late 19th century.  <br />Overall, &quot;Possession&quot; is truly an enjoyable novel.  Byatt's command of styles, genres, languages, and most of all character combine to make a fine work.  Casual readers may be put off by the constant shift in time periods, the length of time spent away from the 'main' characters, Roland and Maud, and the constant poetical interruptions.  For the committed reader, these facets make the novel challenging and ultimately rewarding.	2001-07-10
US	51177889	R2WNEDJSN19R5M	0800871863	431949761	Silence	Books	5	452	461	N	N	A Novel of Undeniable Power	&quot;Silence&quot; is an excellent novel.  Comparisons between Shusaku Endo and British novelist Graham Greene are apt, as both deal with the relationships that develop between individuals, Catholicism, and the world.  &quot;Silence&quot; is an extremely intense historical novel.  While knowledge of Catholicism may be helpful for some of the situations and terminology, the issues of doubt and faith, in God and in people, are readily available to any reader.  <br />&quot;Silence&quot; is set in sixteenth century Japan, where Portuguese missionaries must contend with traders from rival European nations and the persecution of Christians by Japanese feudal lords.  The feudal lords want to drive Christianity out of Japan, and try to do so by torturing priests into apostasy, denying their faith.  This is done symbolically by stepping on a &quot;fumie,&quot; a Christian image, like a picture of Mary or a crucifix.  Two Portuguese priests, Sebastian Rodrigues and Francis Garrpe, make a dangerous journey to Japan, both to locate and comfort Japanese converts, and to discover the truth about a supposed apostate priest, Ferreira.  <br />&quot;Silence&quot; makes use of several narrative approaches, third person omniscient at the beginning and ending, while the middle portion of the novel is written in the style of a diary and letters from Rodrigues' point of view.  The main protagonist, Rodrigues must deal with the validity of his faith, the propriety of the Christian mission in Japan, the suffering of Japanese converts, and the silence of God in the midst of so much hardship.  <br />Rodrigues' trials are exacerbated by his physical and cultural isolation, as he and Garrpe are forced to conceal themselves in a small hut dug out of the side of a mountain near Nagasaki.  Culturally, he must confront being in a nation whose language and customs are mostly alien and threatening to him.  The most perplexing external difficulty Rodrigues faces is from an ambiguously motivated localnamed Kichijiro.  Rodrigues' relationship with Kichijiro forces the priest into his deepest and most troubling reflections on faith and the Bible.  <br />&quot;Silence&quot; was an absolutely fascinating read.  The historical and cultural milieus of the novel are complicated by Endo's own background.  Endo's perspective on Christianity and Catholicism in particular, as a Japanese writer, and writing about Japanese history forced me, at least, as a Westerner, to look at issues of faith and international relations from a radically different perspective than even the foreign-based novels of Graham Greene that I have read, like &quot;The Heart of the Matter&quot; or &quot;The Power and the Glory,&quot; the latter of which is thematically very similar to Endo's &quot;Silence&quot;.  Overall, a tremendous and powerful novel.	2001-06-18
US	51177889	RZXUUMVQOFIM8	014044100X	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gilgamesh and Enkidu at Uruk	Dating from the third millennium B.C., &quot;The Epic of Gilgamesh&quot; is one of the earliest surviving epic poems in world literature, and like some of its obvious counterparts, to wit, Homer's &quot;Iliad&quot; and &quot;Odyssey,&quot; Virgil's &quot;Aeneid,&quot; and &quot;Beowulf,&quot; still has the power to attract and fascinate readers even at the dawn of the 21st century.  Like &quot;Beowulf,&quot; Gilgamesh is a king whose initial goal is to establish his own eternal fame.  <br />Gilgamesh, the child of a goddess and a priest, is, at the start of the epic, driving the people of Uruk crazy with his boundless energy and restless enthusiasm.  The people beseech the gods to send a companion for their king.  This companion comes in the form of Enkidu, a wild man who communes with beasts in the forest.  Gradually, Gilgamesh and Enkidu become the closest of friends.  While the search for fame and glory continues, it becomes only too clear that the focal point of the epic is the relationship between the king and the wild man.  Without peers or equals, the two live almost exclusively for each other and through each other.  Other ancient epics, of course, feature complicated relationships, but &quot;Gilgamesh&quot; is rare in the sheer intensity of the homosocial bond.<br />The wanderings and quests of Gilgamesh and Enkidu find their highest purpose in the pursuit of eternal life, which, again, surfaces because of Gilgamesh's relationship with Enkidu.  Mortality becomes the overarching theme of the epic.  A theme which we continue to deal with, the epic intersects the drive of science, pseudoscience, and magic throughout human history.<br />Stylistically, the most notable feature of &quot;Gilgamesh&quot; is repetition of phrases.  Even in conversation, one sees the same sentence, sometimes modified, come from two or more characters, even at relatively great distance from each other in the actual text.  This demonstrates very powerfully the oral origins of the epic.Repetition, which could become tiresome, draws us further into the story, as it forces us to pay closer attention to the significance of what is being said, as well as important numbers (7 and 12 appear most frequently), and images.  <br />The adventures of Gilgamesh and Enkidu amongst gods, beasts, and natural forces, are compelling, interesting reading.  Certain parallels between the ancient Mesopotamian epic and the Judeo-Christian biblical narratives that post-date it, have been well-documented.  N.K. Sandars' introduction is extremely detailed, giving the history of the region surrounding Uruk, the history of the text itself and how it has been read, compiled, and studied since the 19th century, provides excellent background on the complicated mythology of the ancient Mesopotamians.  A solid read altogether.	2001-06-12
US	51177889	R2UJHRRI17HSP9	0192828339	900341193	St. Leon (The World's Classics)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Not Godwin's Best, But Good Enough	William Godwin's 1799 novel, \\"St. Leon,\\" builds on themes he and patterns he established in his first novel \\"Caleb Williams\\".  Godwin's first concern, as always, is the way that the operations of government affect the individual.  Godwin complicates the scenario of persecution, pursuit, and paranoia he worked with in \\"Caleb Williams\\" by giving his hero, Reginald St. Leon, a wife and children.  Godwin goes deep into human psychology to explore how the vicissitudes of human fortune affect not only one man, but how his responses to the world affect everyone around him.  <br />The novel begins in the early 1520's, at the very beginnings of the Protestant Reformation.  The anti-hero is Reginald St. Leon, a landed aristocrat, building his name in war and society.  As a youth, he develops an unfortunate penchant for gambling which places his family's fortune and his legacy in severe straits.  His friend and advisor, a gentleman by the name of de Damville, offers his daughter to St. Leon.  De Damville trusts that by settling down with a prudent young lady like Marguerite, he will abandon his wanton lifestyle and become the man that his noble house expects.  ...  <br />One day, St. Leon is approached by an old man who takes him into confidence, promising St. Leon a way to recuperate his fortune, on the condition that he tells no one what passes between them.  Offered the ultimate prizes of alchemy, the philosopher's stone and the elixir of immortality, St. Leon is sworn to silence, alienating him further from his wife and family.  The next three volumes of the novel show the catastrophic aftermath of St. Leon's new gifts.  St. Leon wanders all over Europe, abandoning his family, trying to use his unlimited wealth to benefit mankind.  His experiments are ill-conceived, though, and he ends up, like his predecessor Caleb Williams, a complete outcast to humanity, hated by his family, pursued by the Spanish Inquisition, and imprisoned by the Hungarian Turks.<br />More psychologically complex than \\"Caleb Williams,\\" \\"St. Leon\\" gives us a broad range of characters, male and female, who are each affected by their contact with St. Leon.  We are exposed by Godwin, in a time when nations measured themselves as good by the supposed evil of other nations, to a kind of social relativism.  In France, Germany, Spain, Italy, and Hungary, Godwin gives us, not only St. Leon's perspective, but forces us to consider 16th (and by reflection 18th) century international relations from the vantage point of each.  <br />However, this diffusion and variety that contributes to the complexity of the novel, socially, politically, and psychologically, also detracts from the overall effect of the novel upon the reader.  Where \\"Caleb Williams\\" drives straight through in a constant state of panic and terror, \\"St. Leon\\" has a looser structure, and as a result, moves much slower, and does not captivate or enthrall as the earlier novel does.  Overall, \\"St. Leon\\" is an extremely interesting novel, and should appeal to fans of psychological gothic and historical novels.	2001-06-08
US	51177889	R1WQ1YYHJK747I	014009623X	156382324	Foe	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Robinson Crusoe Re-Visioned	J.M. Coetzee is an extraordinarily gifted and insightful writer.  The only other novel of his that I've read is &quot;Life and Times of Michael K,&quot; but both that and this novel, &quot;Foe&quot; are sparse, beautiful, enigmatic works.  &quot;Foe&quot; takes a postmodern look at Daniel Defoe's classic eighteenth-century novel, &quot;Robinson Crusoe.&quot;  Of course, reading Defoe's novel first gives you the fullest understanding of the background Coetzee is working from, but I believe that as much as anything, it is unnecessary to be intimately familiar with Defoe.  Defoe's novel is an appropriate novel to rewrite because the plot is one that is ingrained into Western consciousness - everyone knows the basic story of shipwreck, survival, and rescue.  <br />&quot;Foe&quot; takes such preconceived ideas and shows that although we may feel comfortable with that basic narrative, comfortability can cause us to take stories for granted and make us complacent readers.  In &quot;Foe,&quot; Coetzee turns the story, characters, and subject positions of Defoe's foundational novel on their heads to disrupt our ready notions of truth, trust, and story.  The major question we ask throughout the very short novel is 'Who's story is the right one?'  Is there ever one right story?  <br />Coetzee turns the autocratic, garrulous, enterprising Robinson Crusoe into Cruso, a stoic castaway who no longer cares to leave his island and spends each day in a futile pursuit.  He builds terraces where nonexistent future generations can plant imported seeds.  Friday, Cruso's servant, is changed from a subservient, excitable islander to a former African slave who may or may not have a tongue and does not speak at all.  Coetzee's major innovation is the introduction of Susan Barton, the novel's primary narrator, who tells the story of the island in conversation and letters addressed to Daniel Foe, a noted English author.  <br />Susan, as narrator, deals intensely throughout the novel with trying to get Cruso's story published.  Meanwhile, she attempts to handle her own issues, to wit, her search for a missing daughter, Foe's disappearance, and her torturous relationship with the mute Friday.  Overall, this is a fantastic novel, fraught with problems of language, narrative, and gender.	2001-05-03
US	51177889	R6N5BBHUJTNU6	0631156755	216211678	Faustus and the Censor: The English Faust-Book and Marlowe's Doctor Faustus	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Faustus and the Censor	While Empson's posthumous publication, &quot;Faustus and the Censor,&quot; first came out in the 1980's, it remains a relevant document in Christopher Marlowe criticism.  The oft-disputed authenticity of Marlowe's play &quot;Doctor Faustus,&quot; and its two versions, the A and B-texts is the main focus of Empson's book.  Empson begins with the beginning - Marlowe's sources, primarily the German Faust Book.  Empson discusses the possible relationship with the translator of English Faust Book, a mysterious gentleman named 'P.F.' who may have provided Marlowe with information on German and Latin texts.<br />Empson's thesis is that the A text is the 'original' - but that its seeming inadequacies are due to the interference of the official censor of plays in the late 1500s.  Scenes missing that Empson argues were removed for reasons of state and morality are an appearance of the chorus and an episode in a Turkish harem.  <br />The censor, Empson argues, had three major problems with Marlowe's play that required change:  1)the women Faustus consorts with must be real women - because Anglican belief did not allow that devils could consort with humans.  2)Mephistopheles must be a devil - again, Anglicanism does not allow for middle spirits.  3)Faust must be punished eternally at the end of the play; apparently, the original version when acted, left some ambiguity about this issue.<br />Empson's &quot;Faust and the Censor&quot; tends to be somewhat repetitive on supporting these points.  However, the repetition is done well, so that the points he makes are continuously reinforced and consistently developed.  This is an engaging piece of literary criticism - the language is familiar, even colloquial, making the book an interesting and even entertaining read - very unusual in the field of literary criticism.  I don't even like Marlowe, but Empson's style and substance make this a critical work worth checking out.	2001-05-03
US	51177889	R2ZOB38W2GNFM0	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Final Nail in Victoria's Coffin	Virginia Woolf's novel &quot;To The Lighthouse,&quot; is, as its title suggests, a multivoiced final journey from the 19th century into the 20th.  What must be determined over the course of reading the novel and reflecting on it, is the function of the lighthouse.  Are its probing, distant lights supposed to be a beacon of hope as its characters move from the repressive age of Victoria into the liberating age of technology?  Does the lighthouse echo the arch of experience which Tennyson's Ulysses claims 'fades forever and forever when I move' toward it?  Or is the lighthouse just a lighthouse?<br />Mrs. Ramsay, the novel's main character and guiding principle, is herself a lighthouse, built on a foundation of tradition and stock 19th century notions of how people should interact in society and towards each other.  Her matchmaking schemes are ever fainter echoes of the Victorian novel's marriage plots.  Woolf undermines and qualifies Mrs. Ramsay's intentions by exploding the conventions of the 19th century novel - plot structure becomes amorphous, protean formlessness; narrative voice is shared between characters as narration becomes thought and smoothly passes from character to character, anticipating the stream of consciousness style.  <br />Woolf also questions Mrs. Ramsay's social priorities - is marriage really a vital or necessary condition for women?  Through close examination of Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay's marriage, Lily Briscoe's determination to remain single, and the novel's myriad other relationships, Woolf severely problematizes any comfortable ideas about knowing other people.  Another important issue is the social value of art - Frequent conversations involving the philosopher Mr. Ramsay, the doctoral student Charles Tansley, the poet Augustus Carmichael, and the painter Lily Briscoe, along with Woolf's own speculations on the permanence of human design in Part II ask us to consider the role of art in regard to humanity.  <br />In a novel where the boundaries of time and space are consistently challenged, and the family unit is exposed, one must also focus on the erotics of storytelling.  Love, hatred, admiration, and disgust permeate &quot;To The Lighthouse.&quot;  Our attempt as readers to understand the drive of the novel compels us to seek a reason for reading it among these four potential narrative scenarios.  Does love, hate, or some combination of the two commit the characters to reveal their thoughts, and why do these thoughts involve us so that we feel a need to read to the end?<br />&quot;To The Lighthouse&quot; is a fascinating book - coming on the heels of such anti-Victorian masterpieces as Edith Wharton's &quot;The Age of Innocence&quot; and Samuel Butler's &quot;The Way of All Flesh,&quot;  Woolf's novel through form and content seeks to put the 19th century to rest, while simultaneously dealing with the terrors of post-World War I existence.  Concentrate and give Woolf your undivided attention.  This novel deserves it.	2001-04-16
US	51177889	R3ASIPKTOX9ST1	0679731369	62087535	Flaubert's Parrot	Books	5	74	80	N	N	Deeply Felt, Highly Literate, Highly Entertaining	Julian Barnes's novel/fictional biography/fictional autobiography, &quot;Flaubert's Parrot&quot; is a magnificent work.  This is the first of Barnes's work that I have read, and it shall not be the last.  In it, an admittedly mediocre, aging scholar, Geoffrey Braithwaite, professedly attempts to eschew the accepted notions of literary biography, while pursuing just the sort of minutiae he derides.  In the case of Flaubert, Braithwaite becomes obsessed with two stuffed parrots - which is the one that inspired and annoyed Flaubert during the composition of 'Un coeur simple'?<br />Conventions of narrative, style, and form are dispensed with throughout this work - it is composed of a range of genres (mulit-voiced narratives, chronology, encyclopedia/dictionary, and even essay-exam questions).  At the same time, the disparate modes are held together from the beginning by a deeper underlying drive - the uncovering of Flaubert's life and opinions operate as a function of Braithwaite's own unresolved issues with the death of his wife.  <br />For all the Sartre-bashing that goes on in &quot;Flaubert's Parrot,&quot; one notices striking resonances between Barnes's novel and one of Sartre's, to wit, &quot;Nausea.&quot;  In both, exasperated scholars find themselves feebly attempting to write intended biographies (for Sartre, the subject is Monsieur de Rollebon) while exploring their own relationship turmoils.  Is this part of the much-discussed 'irony' that Braithwaite emphasizes as present in Flaubert's life and writings?  Is Barnes, as the deus in absentia author, manipulating and ironizing Braithwaite's tumultuous search for truth about Flaubert to point out Braithwaite's own inconsistencies?  <br />I digress.  Braithwaite tackles Flaubert's life unconventionally - Flaubert is allowed to speak for himself through quotations from correspondence and novels; Flaubert's associates, mainly Maxime du Camp, and his primary lover, Louise Colet are allowed to give 'their own' accounts of their relationships with Flaubert.  Braithwaite also presents the commonplaces of Flaubert biography and criticism.  All of this is presented to give the reader a highly-biased while simultaneously distancing and impartial look at Flaubert, at Braithwaite, at Barnes, at history, at story, at art, at life, and at themselves.  <br />The layering of texts gives a seemingly random assortment of information subtle, even insidious coherence.  Quotes, citations, and scenarios are repeated at intervals and in different contexts, allowing the reader to flesh out the importance of each without being repetitive or monotonous.  Such is also the case with motifs and images - the bear, the parrot, train-travel, time, medicine, and metafiction.  Each device overlaps the other until you find yourself caught up in the significance of every line to the life of Flaubert, to the life and writing of Braithwaite, and to the author Barnes.  <br />At times moving, at others repellent, still at others transfixing, Barnes stocks a wealth of knowledge and speculation about art and life into 190 highly entertaining pages.  I don't know how much the reader learns about Flaubert, but the careful and attentive reader will learn quite a lot about something from &quot;Flaubert's Parrot.&quot;	2001-04-15
US	51177889	R29R714JWF6ZWQ	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Read It Again For The First Time	I haven't read Fitzgerald's 'The Great Gatsby' in almost two years.  I picked it up again, to-day, though, and realized the truth of the notion that one learns something new each time one returns to a book.  'The Great Gatsby' just is a novel that must be returned to periodically to appreciate it properly.<br />While the characters in the novel remain ultimately unknowable at their indefinite cores, Fitzgerald does a great job tying his characters to their historical setting.  The protagonist of the novel, to my mind, is Nick Carraway, the narrator.  The hero of his story, which frames the novel, is the legendary Jay Gatsby - a legend in his own mind.  Although Carraway's narration is often heavily biased and unreliable, what emerges are the stories of a set of aimless individuals, thrown together in the summer of 1922.  Daisy Buchanan is the pin that holds the novel together - by various means, she ties Nick to Jordan Baker, Tom Buchanan to Jay Gatsby, and Gatsby to the Wilsons.<br />The novel itself deals with the shallow hypocrisies of fashionable New York society life in the early 1920's.  It is almost as though Fitzgerald took the plot of Edith Wharton's 'The Age of Innocence' and updated it - in the process making the characters infinitely more detestable and depriving it of all hope.  Extramarital affairs rage on with only the thinnest of veils to disguise them, the nouveau-riche rise on the back of scandal and corruption, and interpersonal relationships rarely signify anything permanent that doesn't reek of conspiracy.  The novel's casual allusions to beginnings and histories often cause us to reflect on the novel's historical moment - when the American Dream and Benjamin Franklin's vision of the self-made man seem to coalesce in Jay Gatsby, a Franklinian who read too much Nietzsche.<br />No matter how you read it, 'The Great Gatsby' is worth re-reading.  M.J. Bruccoli's short, but informative preface, and C. Scribner III's afterword are included in this edition, and both set excellent contexts, literary, personal, and historical, for this classic of American literature.edition, and both set excellent contexts, literary, personal, and historical, for this classic of American literature.	2001-03-15
US	51177889	R2JFYB0Y8OEHL9	0312095457	363093333	Jane Eyre (Case Studies in Contemporary Criticism)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	An Excellent Edition of Jane Eyre	The Bedford/St. Martin's edition of Charlotte Brontë's &quot;Jane Eyre&quot; is a wonderful edition for burgeoning scholars.  Although the text of &quot;Jane Eyre&quot; itself lacks the volume of notes that the Penguin Classics edition or the Norton Critical edition has, it makes up for this minor defect in its wealth of critical contexts.<br />&quot;Jane Eyre&quot; itself is a novel dealing with Jane's life and pursuit of love and independence in early nineteenth century England.  The novel begins with Jane as a young orphan girl, living with her cruel and abusive aunt Reed and cousins, John, Eliza, and Georgiana.  Often treated like an outcast, Jane must come to terms throughout the novel with her own physical inferiority and figure out how to make a life for herself with the social disadvantages of low class and gender.<br />One theme which runs throughout the novel itself deals with Jane's relationships to strong male characters, like Reverend Brocklehurst, Mr. Rochester, and St. John Rivers.  Another important motif in the novel deals with Jane's femininity - and how she positions herself as an independent woman, often in the mold of Wollstonecraftian feminism - and how she reconciles education and rationality with sentimentality and passion.  Politically, anxieties and concerns with British Imperialism also manifest themselves throughout the novel.  Widely read as Brontë was, the novel also positions itself in the British literary tradition, appropriating themes and practices from authors like Samuel Richardson, Wollstonecraft, Mary Shelley, Byron, Wordsworth, the gothic tradition, and so on.<br />The Bedford/St. Martin's edition is extremely useful for students, as the second half of the book is devoted to critical methodologies, including concise essays outlining major areas of critical theory - to wit, feminism, psychoanalysis, deconstruction, cultural criticism, and marxism.  These essays provide broad frameworks for critical thought, and each is followed by an exemplary critical article and a wealth of bibliography for further research.  While I personally would rather use the Penguin Classics or Norton Critical edition, the Bedford/St. Martin's is a suitable edition for close reading and study.by an exemplary critical article and a wealth of bibliography for further research.  While I personally would rather use the Penguin Classics or Norton Critical edition, the Bedford/St. Martin's is a suitable edition for close reading and study.	2001-03-02
US	51177889	R33SDW6PYS08J5	0140443355	772785646	First Love (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Short, Reaslistic, Powerful	Turgenev's novella, &quot;First Love&quot; is a compact, but intense, fiction whose realism blends with its literary allusions, dream-like qualities, and point of view to create a work of undeniable power.  This is a novella which questions the boundaries between life and art, asking us all the while where love resides in self, family, and society.<br />&quot;First Love&quot; begins in a style reminiscent of Chaucer's &quot;Canterbury Tales.&quot;  Following a long dinner party, three men are in the middle of a calm conversation, when the unnamed host proposes that they all share the stories of their first loves.  Two men's stories are quickly dismissed, leaving Vladimir Petrovich, a pensive middle aged man, who offers to give his story after having a chance to write it out.  Vladimir's story concerns a summer when he was 16.  Living in the country with a dissatisfied mother and an agonizingly  Byronic father, Vladimir happens upon a dispossessed 21-year-old princess, Zinaida.  From her shabby home, the beautiful and mysterious Zinaida commands a court of six men of varying ages and backgrounds - a poet, a doctor, a minor nobleman, a soldier, and Vladimir - each of whom is desperate to win her affection at any cost.  For his own part, Vladimir attempts throughout the story to discover the roots of his own fascination with Zinaida.<br />Part of the appeal of &quot;First Love&quot; is its point of view.  It is a true first person narrative - we only ever know Vladimir's experience - the effect is a realistic account of the infatuation, love, doubt, and inner turmoil of a young man told through the hindsight of age and experience.  Perhaps I've grown too accustomed to omniscient narration recently, but the desire that Turgenev evokes to know the minds of others, which of course in reality, we cannot, is both appealing and frustrating.<br />Turgenev's literary background is broad and multicultural - he evinces knowledge of Russian, British, German, and French, Classic and Romantic traditions - all of which give us the sense that the tale being told is at once extremely personal and terribly universal.  &quot;First Love&quot; is well-worth the investment of the short time it takes to read.	2001-02-27
US	51177889	R2CU4EB13285LN	0140446273	58983679	Virgil's Aeneid (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	&quot;Behold a Nation in a Man compris'd&quot;	John Dryden's 1697 translation of Virgil's Ancient Roman epic &quot;The Aeneid&quot; is, after 300 years, still entertaining and edifying.  For students of Restoration/18th Century literature, it is a shining example of the major poetic tradition of the age, Neoclassicism.  Dryden, trying with his measured heroic couplets to recapture the high forms of the age of Augustus in Rome, appropriately translates the famous epic of Aeneas, founder of Rome.  <br />&quot;The Aeneid&quot; takes up the Homeric tradition, beginning in the aftermath of &quot;The Iliad&quot; and the Trojan War.  Aeneas, protected by his mother, the goddess Venus, is advised to flee Troy with the remaining Trojans.  He has been fated to found a greater empire in Italy.  Juno, queen of the gods, who supported Greece in the Trojan War, has recently heard that the descendants of Troy will destroy her new favourites in Carthage.  All of this raises Juno's ire, and she manipulates men and nature in an effort to end the Trojan line.  Through Juno's efforts, and in a manner similar to Homer's &quot;Odyssey,&quot; the three day journey from Troy to Rome ends up taking many years.<br />Aeneas as a hero is a problematic figure.  Though he is a skilled warrior and committed leader, his relationships with women are thoroughly troubled in &quot;The Aeneid.&quot;  In particular, his treatment of Carthage's Queen Dido and later the Trojan women is questionable.  In addition, Aeneas has a tendency to let his introspection and attachment to ceremony draw him away from his people when they need his leadership the most.  Often, though, these desperate situations allow the next generation, represented by Aeneas's son Ascanius, to shine in action scenes.<br />Aeneas's foes throughout the poem (Juno, Turnus) offer intense opposition to the wandering Trojans, emphasizing the amount of toil and suffering the Trojans had to endure to establish themselves in a new home and found a new empire.  The great thing about Dryden'stranslation specifically is the way that Dryden dramatizes and references recent problems in England in the context of a Roman epic.  In this context, look for references to fires, which are usually described as spreading like &quot;contagion&quot; or &quot;plague.&quot;  Dryden's personal knowledge of the plague and fire that tore London apart in 1665-6 are important subtexts in the translation.  Aeneas and his &quot;exiled&quot; court also fit in with Dryden's concern as a Catholic with the Protestant Succession in the years after the Glorious Revolution of 1688.  That Dryden's own historical period finds its way in these and other ways into his translation of the Roman epic are impressive and interesting.<br />Though the heroic couplet/triplet poetic style Dryden uses throughout his translation of &quot;The Aeneid&quot; can be initially difficult, it gradually becomes easier to read and follow.  However, in the books dealing with battles, you will want to read slowly, to figure out just who is killing who.  Frederick Keener's introduction to this Penguin Classics edition is very helpful, providing detailed explanations of Dryden's style and context.  This edition also includes a glossary of names and a map of Aeneas's voyage, so that names that are introduced only briefly can be better understood.  Overall, an excellent edition for reading or study.	2001-02-20
US	51177889	R2X8MZV8V0LHTC	0393007693	813245985	Beyond the Pleasure Principle (Norton Library)	Books	5	95	98	N	N	Happy, Deadly, Wild Psychology!	Sigmund Freud's &quot;Beyond the Pleasure Principle&quot; is  a key text, not only for psychologists, or literary theorists, but anyone who thinks about why our minds work the way they do.  If your mind is open to extreme possibilities, give this text a read.  It is short, barely 75 pages, but give yourself time to pore over and make notes, as Freud moves very quickly.<br />In &quot;Beyond the Pleasure Principle,&quot; Freud seeks to discover the causes and effects of our drives.  To this end, he begins with the pleasure principle, which basically holds that the job of our 'mental apparatus' is to lower tension and move us towards pleasure and stability.  Working against the pleasure principle are our baser instincts, which must be repressed by a vigilant brain.  The pleasure principle can also be interrupted by the reality principle, which operates in moments when basic life functions are threatened - to wit, when maintaining life is more important than pleasure.  <br />Examining the pleasure principle, Freud looks at scenarios which may shed light on mental processes that seem to challenge it.  These include repetition compulsion, wherein adults seem to fixate and reenact moments of trauma.  Seeking a more primal cause for repetition instinct, Freud analyses children's games.  Interestingly, the further Freud regresses, the more speculative and intense he gets - from childhood, Freud talks about the brain itself, moving back to simple multicellular organisms, unicellular organisms, and ultimately inorganic matter - all the time looking for an explanation of the origin of instincts themselves.<br />Freud's queries on instinct and repetition compulsion lead him to the darkest possible places - the revelation of the death instinct.  Freud posits that the repetition compulsion manifests itself in all conscious beings in the desire to return to the earliest state, total inactivity.  The remainder of his treatise is spent developing the conditions of the death instinct,and trying to find a way out of this shocking thesis.  Taking up Hesiodic Eros as symbolic of the life instinct, Freud attempts to argue out of the seemingly inescapable conclusion.<br />Freud's writing style is direct and fluid, but not necessarily straightforward.  If you're not paying attention, Freud can go over your head quickly.  For example, on page 50 of this standard edition, his line of argument dismisses Darwin, Marx, and Nietzsche in a matter of two paragraphs to astounding effect.  His language is highly figurative, drawing on philosophy, literature, biology, and anecdote to make and illustrate his points.  A critical text for anyone interested in psychoanalysis and its figurehead author.	2001-02-09
US	51177889	R3BF6V49DT4UZB	0140430075	614019833	Robinson Crusoe	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A Multifaceted English Classic	Daniel Defoe's 1719 novel, &quot;Robinson Crusoe,&quot; written when Defoe was 59 years old, is a multifaceted work whose layers of significance can easily escape those who read it in their youth.  The English precursor to the survival/adventure/shipwreck narrative, &quot;Robinson Crusoe&quot; details the career of an errant youth who discovers hope and faith through experimentation.  Crusoe's exploits are also important to a developing early 18th century notion of the ideal industrious middle class citizen, as well as reaffirming the growth of British Imperialism.<br />As a boy in a household already fractured by rebellious sons, Crusoe lives aimlessly with his father and mother, always desiring to leave the confines of his home for the sea.  Against the better wisdom of his father, who advises him to remain where he is and enjoy the fruits of an easy-going middle class life, Crusoe takes to the ocean.  A series of ill-omened occurrences, including shipwrecks and enslavement lead Crusoe to a deserted island off the coast of South America, where he is forced to provide and fend for himself.<br />Though Crusoe's spiritual awakening has been much noted in reviews, one important facet of his Christian moralizing in the novel that is noteworthy is the way the novel problematizes Protestant-Catholic relations throughout the novel.  The vast majority of Crusoe's early encounters are among Spanish and Portuguese colonists and traders.  It is interesting how Crusoe measures the English against them, and how that comparison extends into Crusoe's evaluation of the various 'savages' he comes across in the novel.<br />Another great layer of significance in &quot;Robinson Crusoe&quot; concerns its attitudes toward English history and colonial ventures.  Note the language of possession, authority, and control that colour Crusoe's descriptions of himself and the uninhabited island he must learn to live on.  I find especially telling, in accordance with his religious views, how England's 18th century colonial competitors, the Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, and French, are characterized by Crusoe.<br />I could also cite the often explicitly homoerotic undertones in the relationship between Crusoe and his Native American manservant, Friday, as a source of compelling interest in Defoe's novel.  In the realm of the socio-economic, Crusoe's appropriation of utilitarianism in regards to raw materials, money, and even people is an important theme.  For those who have read it a million times or never, Defoe's &quot;Robinson Crusoe&quot; is entertaining and edifying, always worth reading and rereading.	2001-01-28
US	51177889	R243ZP96YZF3EL	0140442421	475141699	Elective Affinities (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	48	49	N	N	Love is Not a Controlled Experiment	First published in 1809, Goethe's novel &quot;Elective Affinities&quot; is a disturbingly dark work about rational people driven to distraction by passion and love.  The novel seems to be as much influenced by 'The Tale of Foolish Curiosity' found in &quot;Don Quixote&quot; (chapters 33-35) as by Goethe's own marital difficulties.  In the novel, Goethe explores the nature of love, and questions whether we have any choice over who we love - or over anything at all.  <br />&quot;Elective Affinities&quot; is the story of two married aristocrats, Eduard and Charlotte, who spend their time and money in general indolence, tinkering with the land on their estate.  A friend of Eduard's, the Captain, has fallen into economic instability, and Eduard suggests that they invite the Captain into their home until he can reestablish himself.  Charlotte initially objects, but sees it as an opportunity to withdraw Ottilie, her niece, from an unproductive school experience.  Under the auspices of doing good turns for their friends, Eduard and Charlotte unwittingly throw the listless harmony of their lives into chaos.<br />When the passionate Eduard meets the youthful, energetic Ottilie, and the stoical Charlotte meets the likewise prudent Captain - the scientific principle of Elective Affinities that gives the novel its name begins to take effect.  The results of introducing two new elements into a closed system makes up the action of the remainder of the novel.  Among other things, the novel examines and subtly criticizes the state of class relations in Germany in the early nineteenth century, the limitations of children's education, and matters of faith.<br />Goethe's &quot;Elective Affinities&quot; is a quick read - Hollingdale's translation is user-friendly, becoming ornate only when faith to the original seems to demand it.  Though not as famous as Goethe's &quot;Sorrows of Young Werther,&quot; &quot;Elective Affinities&quot; is certainly worth a read.	2001-01-16
US	51177889	RVLADYQ6QVQ93	0140435069	782125406	A Laodicean (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Not Very Subtle, But Often Surprising	Thomas Hardy's 1881 novel, &quot;A Laodicean&quot; is often overlooked among his more noted works, like &quot;Tess&quot; or &quot;Jude&quot;.  While &quot;A Laodicean&quot; is not the most subtly developing Victorian novel in terms of romance, it is sophisticated and worth reading in other aspects.  Subtitled &quot;A Story of To-day,&quot; Hardy's novel effectively explores the relationship between the coming age of technology and the death of the aristocracy in pre-20th century Britain.<br />The novel begins with George Somerset, a flighty and intelligent young man who has tinkered with several pursuits, but is finally settling into architecture.  Wandering about the vicinity of Markton village, he comes upon a rustic baptism.  Paula Power, a young heiress whose late father was a railroad tycoon, refuses to be baptized, raising Pastor Woodwell's charge against her that she is a &quot;Laodicean,&quot; a lukewarm believer.  George is engaged to work on the restoration of Paula's new residence, Castle De Stancy.  Somerset's fascination with Power is born and the action of the novel begins in earnest.  <br />Some of the themes of interest include technological advance - the telegraph's intrusion into the most ancient spaces - the gothic castle and photography.  With the image of the crumbling gothic Castle De Stancy, Hardy questions the relevance of hereditary aristocracy and religious fervor to the cosmopolitan modern age.  With Paula, Hardy's lifelong interest in the independent heroine is complicated and subtly nuanced.  With the fascinating Mr. Dare, Hardy plays with his gothic and colonial subtexts, prefiguring Bram Stoker's late 1890's &quot;Dracula.&quot; <br />&quot;A Laodicean&quot; is worth reading because it is itself lukewarm - unsure whether progress is always positive and uncomfortable with the flippancy of both the aristocracy and new wealth.  It is a book whose very instabilities and insecurities make it engaging.	2001-01-08
US	51177889	R1UXF4SLZ1PLAS	039331507X	455747080	Nothing Like the Sun (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Nothing Like The Sun	Anthony Burgess's &quot;Nothing Like The Sun&quot; is a linguistic marvel.  It is a philosophically oppressive look at William Shakespeare's foray into literature and the world.  Starting in the small 'borough' of Stratford, WS (as he is called) is an apprentice leather craftsman.  He spends his days and nights dreaming of plays, gentility, and idealistic love.<br />Most of the novel shows WS trying to figure out what kind of love he is after.  His notions of love come from Plato's &quot;Symposium&quot; - will it be common, physical lust, or contemplation of absolute beauty leading to his best poetic and dramatic works?  The relationships that the novel explores these questions with are with the youthful noble Henry Wriothesly and the exotic, colonial Fatima.  <br />Burgess delights in wordplay throughout the novel, using for the most part, the language of Shakespeare's plays and sonnets in the narration and dialogue.  Unlike &quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot; Burgess's novel does not build around any specific text, instead making his works almost marginal to the drama of Shakespeare's fictional biography.  Burgess presents Shakespeare's works as the results and expressions of a desperate life.<br />Burgess augments Shakespeare's story with an almost post-colonial historical setting.  With Fatima allegedly from the Indies, and a backdrop of English oppression of the Irish, &quot;Nothing Like The Sun&quot; complicates Shakespeare's historical moment.  Class struggles, plagues, and political sterility also mark the temporal setting as the novel moves from the country (Stratford) to the coast (Bristol) to the capital (London).<br />Reading &quot;Nothing Like The Sun&quot; was a welcome experience for me, having only ever read Burgess's &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot; before.  The writing style takes a little getting used to, but that is the price you pay for art.  I highly recommend it.	2001-01-06
US	51177889	R33JKYJWUP25XK	0310385709	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	2	44	82	N	N	So-So Gospel Explication	Yancey's &quot;The Jesus I Never Knew&quot; offers a range of quotations dealing with the nature and purpose of Jesus Christ, and an insistent method of Gospel explication, but not much more than either.  Though he tries to set aside the disputes of strictly academic theology - Yancey ends up merely replacing one set of opinionated, trend following authors with another, 19th and 20th century poets and novelists.  <br />Are Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Endo, Flannery O'Connor, Hopkins, Updike, or Chesterton any less interested in or invested in promoting certain ideological portraits of Jesus Christ than modern degree-holding theologians?  Or are they simply easier to use in this kind of non-academic project?  It becomes a little distracting after a while to have extracts from novels and poems explicated and analysed alongside the Gospels.<br />Yancey's reading of the Gospels is fairly average.  There is nothing particularly new here - although the need he stresses to remove Jesus Christ and his Message from ideologically loaded political and ecclesiastical structures that often envelope it is well-emphasized and of critical importance.  I was somewhat disappointed in his discussion of the physical Jesus Christ that we get no further than that he was probably 'short'.  The image that graces the cover of the book itself seems only to support the physical image Yancey is trying to correct, that of a handsome white man (which even Yancey acknowledges is absurd).<br />Yancey's most provocative moments occur when he starts giving a sort of spiritual autobiography - for instance, his youthful racism, and his longing for the social world of the 1950's are particularly telling - if these moments were expanded and developed to replace the more haphazard literary allusions, perhaps this book would convey a little more urgency.  Yancey's confessed approach is as a journalist, but there is little of the impartial observer here - Yancey's reporting of the life and message of Jesus Christtells us as much, if not more, about Yancey as it does about Christianity.  This is the most fascinating part of reading this book.  <br />I think the most important thing Yancey is trying to convey in this book is the image of a personal relationship with Jesus Christ in which people strive to be perfect, but can rely on faith in God's grace to dull the pain of imperfection.  Yancey's methods in relaying this message in this particular book are occasionally suspect, but the message manages to come across.	2001-01-04
US	51177889	R20AA3NT2U6E8T	0140184929	851296858	Brighton Rock (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	99	104	N	N	Learning to Play 'The Brutish Game'	I have said it before, and shall say it again - Graham Greene was incapable of writing a bad novel!  &quot;Brighton Rock&quot; is yet another miraculous triumph of setting, plot, characterization, thematic unity and everything that makes novels worth reading.  In addition, Greene's use of Catholicism and common-sense ethics as coexistent ideologies behind the story, guiding the main characters, gives the novel considerable philosophical weight.  One great thing about &quot;Brighton Rock&quot; is that the characters' internal struggles are not simply reducible to good v. evil or right v. wrong, but are asked to distinguish between these two systems.  <br />&quot;Brighton Rock&quot; has two protagonists - Pinkie Brown is a teenage gangster, trying to prove his manhood and establish himself as a serious force in the Brighton underworld.  Ida Arnold is a healthy, flirtatious, and determined woman who cannot be dissuaded from any purpose.  When corrupt newspaperman Charles Hale is killed by Pinkie's gang, Ida's momentary acquaintance with Hale on a Bank Holiday leads her to pursue the truth surrounding his death.  The conflict between Pinkie, who falls into a Calvinist-Catholic defeatism, and Ida, who believes in right and Hammurabian justice(an eye for an eye) shapes the rest of the novel.<br />Human sexuality and relationships are important facets of &quot;Brighton Rock.&quot;  Pinkie and Rose, two young Catholics raised in a run-down, predominantly 'Roman' housing project - constantly struggle with maturity, responsibility, and human physicality.  While they view sex as 'mortal sin,' Ida, their pursuer, sees it as 'natural,' and celebratory of life.  The complex relationship between Pinkie and the equally young and innocent Rose adds further purpose to Ida's mission.<br />Minor characters like the anemic Spicer, the loyal Dallow, the brusque Cubitt, and the literary lawyer Prewitt, along with Rose's 'moody' parents and his own eternally copulating parents, all complicate Pinkie's inner turmoil - and reveal that Pinkie's supposed manhood is a veil for his inherent weakness and inexperience.  <br />Greene's wealth of literary knowledge also adds texture to the novel as a whole.  References to Shakespeare, the 18th century actor and Poet Laureate Colley Cibber, Romantic-era poets like Keats and Wordsworth, Victorian literature (Dickens' &quot;David Copperfield&quot;), and modern magazines and motion pictures casts the novel against a history of British literature.  Overall, &quot;Brighton Rock&quot; is typical Greene - expertly written and philosophically provocative.	2001-01-02
US	51177889	R1W73QN60I7DQ1	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Rich Life of David Copperfield	Dickens' &quot;David Copperfield,&quot; despite its dark and overcast tone, is a true pleasure to read.  Dickens' longer novels, like this and &quot;Bleak House&quot; may appear to be prohibitively long, but this is only a reader's fallacy.  Dickens is one novelist who thrives in, and even requires, an inordinately large canvas to create his masterpieces.  &quot;David Copperfield&quot; presents us, through the lens of often idyllic remembrance, with lives, which over the course of our acquaintance, become as real to us now as our own.<br />The novel begins with a tip of the hat to a Lockean 'blank slate' of human experience - one in which David Copperfield presents the text itself, the story of his life, as evidence to the reader, asking us to determine whether he is the 'hero' of his own story.  The fatherless Copperfield starts life between two mothers, Clara Copperfield and his nurse/confidant, Peggotty.  When his mother marries the firm and controlling Murdstone (and arguably, his sister Jane into the bargain), David enters into the economy of human interaction.  Bandied about after his mother's death from the harsh school/prison of Salem House, the harsher world of fiscal self-responsibility at Murdstone and Grinby's, to the irresponsible family environment of the Micawbers - all before he is a teenager - David is continually beset by personal difficulties that challenge and form him.<br />&quot;David Copperfield&quot; is chock-full of fabulously rendered and otherwise memorable characters who all challenge simply being types.  David himself is no simple innocent, abandoned, exploited whelp, like an Oliver Twist - David is more like another of Dickens' orphans, Pip in &quot;Great Expectations&quot; who struggles through initial difficulties to cherish and covet the world of prosperity and success, giving a darker cast to his character.  Then we have Mr. and Mrs. Micawber, whose charming play with language and marital fidelity is often undercut by hyperbolic expressions of devotion to each other.  Their constant state of debt and expectation that society owes them a living without putting forth any effort to deserve it also render them problematic.  With these examples, I do not mean to qualify the appeal of the characters, but to show how wonderfully complicated and fully realized so many of them are - including the endearing Mr. Dick, the demonic Uriah Heep and the spiteful Rosa Dartle.<br />Dickens makes great effort in &quot;David Copperfield&quot; to show how the blank slates of personhood are formed by social conditions - Victorian gender expectations, economic position, and British imperialism, among others.  For example, the first covers the gamut of particularly female experience from the dwarf Miss Mowcher, to the jealous mothers Mrs. Markleham and Mrs. Steerforth, to the confounded prospects of little Em'ly, Julia Mills, and the prostitute Martha.  While the novel is not as strictly thematically linked to pressing social problems as some of his other works, broad social themes frame the characters' regard for each other and the institutions of mid-Victorian society.<br />I enjoyed &quot;David Copperfield&quot; so much - I could talk for days about extended motifs of death/suicide, metafiction, and sublimation of instinct to propriety (where David's disturbingly violent impulses are systematically repressed and suppressed).  I could also go on about the wide range of Dickens' literary reference, and the use he makes of Sterne's &quot;Tristram Shandy,&quot; Cervantes' &quot;Don Quixote,&quot; Richardson's &quot;Pamela&quot; and the influence of the major Romantic poets, namely Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Byron.  Or I could try tracing the substitute father figure from Shakespeare's Falstaff to Mr. Micawber to the unlikely Humpty Dumpty from &quot;Alice in Wonderland.&quot; But I won't.<br />Read &quot;David Copperfield.&quot; It is a spectacular entertainment, possessed of - in short, a great novel.	2000-12-31
US	51177889	RMRI3HJDJR6RT	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	31	38	N	N	John Grady Cole's Odyssey	Many people compare, fairly or no, Cormac McCarthy's &quot;All the Pretty Horses&quot; to William Faulkner's literary work.  What is neglected is the strain of Flannery O'Connor that runs throughout the novel as well.  At any rate, &quot;Horses&quot; more than stands on its own as a startling achievement.  It's prose is more accessible than Faulkner, and its themes less esoteric than O'Connor.  &quot;Horses&quot; is an immaculate novel, dealing with the extreme facets of the everyday and the ways in which people become who they are.<br />John Grady Cole, a 16 year old boy, dispossessed of his family lands, wanders off into Mexico, accompanied by Lacey Rawlins, a close friend.  Astride their trusted horses, Redbo and Junior, the two young men ride, searching for occupation and meaning.  It may be somewhat idealistic that two ranch-hands like Cole and Rawlins should ride about, discussing throughout the novel things like the profundities of religion, life, and human relationships on so advanced a level, but McCarthy's grasp of vernacular - English and Spanish - makes the whole completely palatable.  <br />McCarthy's writing technique leaves nothing to be desired - his evocative use of landscape draws the Texas-Mexico scenery off the page and into immediate experience.  Impressionistic and yet utterly tangible, the cold of the evenings and the heat of the days is described as it is felt.  McCarthy's characterization is just as remarkable.  Minor characters like the various groups of laborers met along the way, Perez the mysteriously powerful political exile/prisoner, or children bathing in a ditch - all bring realism and depth to Cole's struggle into selfhood.<br />The most wonderful thing about &quot;Horses&quot; is that McCarthy doesn't beat you over the head with his major themes - they exist as constant undercurrents - humanity's relationship to tradition, the divine, to each other - these are the elements that course and pulse through the novel.  Epic knife-fightsin a Kafkaesque prison, emotional wounds that never heal, a covert love affair with Alejandra (the daughter of a powerful Mexican landowner), philosophical-historical conversations with her aunt Alfonsa, a problematic relationship with 'Jimmy Blevins,' a possessive young boy - all of these moments in the novel are saturated with fundamental thematic significance. <br />This is not a book to simply read.  This book must be lived with, carried, held, gazed upon and treasured.  Give it full reign of your mind and let the unknowable horses of your imagination take you into yourself.	2000-12-26
US	51177889	R2YY17VTBAM8T7	0140441131	351689121	Dead Souls (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Gogol's Maniacal Magnificence	Gogol's &quot;Dead Souls&quot; is an amazing, if incomplete, novel.  I would say it is about a fellow named Chichikov, but that would not be true.  The novel is about Russia.  In &quot;Dead Souls&quot; we see that Gogol loved Russia so much, it drove him mad trying to find a way to save it.  The novel is entrancing, moving seamlessly between minute particularity to epic scope, as it takes all of Russia under its gaze.  At times, the tone is satirical, angry, comic, even desperate - but always with a wistful fondness that should be apparent to the observant reader.<br />Chichikov, the hero of Gogol's epic poem, shows the influence of Laurence Sterne's &quot;Tristram Shandy,&quot; a novel with which Gogol was familiar.  Like Shandy, we know little about Chichikov until well into the novel.  This narrative indirection allows us more insight into the other characters and the conditions of Russia after the Napoleonic wars.  Chichikov is a minor gentleman, who, having served in various government positions, decides to pursue the life of a land-owner.  His scheme is to traverse Russia, gathering the legal rights to serfs who have died on estates since the last census.  By turning an accumulated list of these 'dead souls' over to the government, he plans to make a small fortune, which he will use to buy an estate.<br />While Chichikov may appear to be a morally questionable swindler, like Herman Melville's &quot;Confidence-Man,&quot; he does have noble motivations, despite his methods.  Chichikov seeks what each person seeks, according to Gogol - to have a family, to do honor to one's country.  Although his plan can seem to be a ludicrous, last-ditch sort of effort at establishing himself, Chichikov is, throughout, extremely level-headed about it.  Chichikov knows how to speak and carry himself so that he will be accepted by everyone he meets.  From the noble, efficient  land-owner Kostanjoglo to the wild, hilarious liar Nozdryov - Chichikov mingles with and exposes us to &quot;the whirligig of men.&quot;<br />Gogol points out throughout the novel that the written text is inadequate to convey the actual experience - the air, the sights, the smells, the people of Russia.  He tries, then, to give us &quot;a living book&quot; - a testament to a way of life that was soon to change.  Like Melville's &quot;Confidence-Man,&quot; which was published shortly before the American Civil War, Gogol's &quot;Dead Souls&quot; came out only a few years before Marx's &quot;Communist Manifesto&quot; which would change and determine the fate of Russia in the first decades of the 20th century.  <br />Read the lyrical &quot;Dead Souls&quot; - if you like his short stories, like &quot;The Nose&quot; or &quot;The Overcoat,&quot; - you will find a wonderfully complex and sophisticated, and deeply involved intellect at his best.	2000-12-24
US	51177889	R2BTRDQBOTJWGO	0520014111	191779427	Augustine of Hippo: A Biography	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Fantastic, Thorough, and Moving Biography	Peter Brown's biography of Saint Augustine, written over 30 years ago, is still as fresh and inviting to-day, finding excited and interesting readers in whoever picks it up.  Augustine lived from 354-430 AD.  While this may seem remote, Brown has a special gift for making Augustine live through his writing style, which both provides clever and welcome points of modern comparison to Augustine's contemporary events.  Another wonderful technique of Brown's biography is to let Augustine, for the most part, speak for himself - it is almost like a mediated autobiography, an expanded &quot;Confessions,&quot; if you will.<br />This manifests itself in the lengthy, but always extremely applicable excerpts that Brown draws for every occasion from Augustine's &quot;Confessions,&quot; as well as his other major works, correspondence, religious tracts, and sermons.  Brown is as little intrusive as possible, setting Augustine's writings, actions, and speeches in their immediate context.  At the same time, Brown's exhaustive research is readily apparent, as he constantly refers to or makes note of the wide range of historical, biographical, and critical scholarship available to him as he wrote.  <br />A key element in Brown's biography is the importance of asserting Augustine's heritage as a particularly African one.  Brown recovers and reminds us that for his massive impact on the course of Christian thought, Augustine was tied in remembrance to his native Thagaste, and through his ministry, to the seaside city of Hippo in Northern Africa.  The African element asserts itself in Brown's emphasis on the African impact of many of Augustine's most definitive struggles - against the Manichees (who insist on static dualism and absolute wisdom), the Donatists (schismatics who insist on the primacy of their version of Catholicism), and the Pelagians (who insist on a form of radical free will).  <br />What is most important and most impressive about Brown's biography is that he renders aportrait of Augustine, the man.  While other, now legendary figures are referred to as Saint Ambrose or Saint Jerome, Brown carefully calls the subject of his biography, in the spirit of Augustine's writings, simply Augustine.  We see straight through the book Augustine's own pervasive preoccupation with the limitations and possibilities of the individual human being and his struggles with his faith and his responsibilities.  In light of this, Brown consistently brings the reader back to Augustine's notion of the 'progress' of the person of faith.  For Augustine, faith and belief were not matters of complacency.  God and Heaven are to be always 'yearned' for, and actively sought, no matter how Augustine's thought shifts over the course of his life.  <br />There is a great hope in Augustine characterized by this idea that, although God's will may be fundamentally inaccessible, people must actively pursue and hopefully enrich their faith.  In this context, Augustine is also very inclusive - his ideas for a church on earth that welcomes all people in all stages of faith who are willing to join is remarkable.  So, yes, I heartily recommend Brown's biography of Augustine.  That it is still in print and in revision is a testament to its own timelessness as a glimpse into the life of a quintessential thinker.	2000-11-29
US	51177889	R1XZYPS6C51GE	0672604280	15206145	Eunuch	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Mistaken Eunuch	First performed in 161 BC, Terence's play 'The Eunuch' is a comedy of mistakes and ill-fated intentions.  Thais, a noble young woman, in an effort to reunite Chremes with his lost sister Pamphila, undertakes a convoluted scheme which backfires at every turn.  To keep her plan secret, Thais must play two of her suitors against each other - Phaedria, her true love, and Thraso, an officer who foolishly believes that he is witty and charming.  <br />Thraso offers Thais the girl Pamphila as a gift to keep her company, while Phaedria plans to bring her a eunuch to watch over Pamphila.  Unbeknownst to any of these parties, Chaerea, Phaedria's younger brother, has fallen in love with Pamphila, who believes her to be a servant.  As Parmeno, the servant of Phaedria's family, brings the eunuch along, he is intercepted by Chaerea.  With Parmeno's help, Chaerea plots to ravish Pamphila by disguising himself as the eunuch, Dorus.<br />Calamities ensue as the schemes of the various characters are put into effect.  The fact that the action of the play takes place in a single day makes for a fast-paced sequence of events.  The gem of Terence's play is the character of Gnatho - a lackey who makes his living by sucking up to people with money.  His own plans come off perfectly because he knows how to speak and act to ingratiate himself with anyone.  Gnatho's snide remarks, always spoken under his breath, are chiefly amusing.<br />For anyone who likes William Wycherley's Restoration comedy, 'The Country Wife,' Terence's 'The Eunuch' is certain to entertain.	2000-11-20
US	51177889	RF73JD8LFTS37	0192838652	636741358	The Last Man (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	118	125	N	N	'All The World Has The Plague!'	Mary Shelley's novel, 'The Last Man' is a work which is slowly gaining the critical attention it richly deserves.  Fans of 'Frankenstein' will be astounded at how much deeper Mary Shelley's indictment of 'masculine' visionary Romanticism, technology, and the faults of humanity go in 'The Last Man'.  At the same time, the novel is fraught with problems and contradictions which give an already paranoid work a whirling sense of internal dementia.  <br />The action of 'The Last Man' takes place between 2073 and 2100 AD.  England is ripe for change as the last King of England abdicates his throne in response to public outcry for a more democratic form of government.  Lionel Verney, a shepherd, is drawn out of a life of wildness and crime by Adrian, the former crown prince of England.  The charismatic Lord Raymond enters the story as the lover of Lionel's sister, Perdita, and the newly-elected Lord Protector of England.  Torn between his love of power and his affections for his wife and a persistent attachment to Evadne, a Greek woman, Raymond renounces his political position and flees to Greece.  There, he leads a military campaign to establish Greek independence and bring about the end of the Turkish empire.  <br />Then, the Plague takes over.  The nondescript malady has wiped out the population of Constantinople just as Raymond conquers it, making his victory meaningless.  Word of the plague's virulence comes in from Asia and America, and from the southern, eastern, and western corners of the world, the plague begins to encroach inward towards Europe and England.  The remainder of the novel tracks Lionel and Adrian's attempts to save the human race from utter annihilation.  <br />In 'The Last Man', Mary Shelley gives us a horrifying, desolate prophecy of the future, when religion, technology, and human effort are all exposed as meaningless.  Although many might say that she also abandons the redemptive possibilities of art, I think that art provides the novel's only hope.  Mary Shelley's dependence on art of every format is clear in the novel's influences - She has Lionel refer to literature, including the works of Daniel Defoe, Charles Brockden Brown, Ann Radcliffe, Homer, Shakespeare, and Jonathan Swift among others.  <br />The novel is fraught with problems of gender and power relations.  At any moment of emotional weakness, Lionel calls himself 'girlish' or 'womanly,' and the novel seems to privilege women who are selfless and submissive.  On the other hand, as Morton Paley's introduction points out, the plague itself is consistently described as female, at one place referred to as 'The Queen of the World'.  With regard to power relations, Lionel continually mentions that in the dying world of humanity, social distinctions have all been abandoned - and yet there are still references to his 'servant' or those of other people.  The most problematic scene in the novel revolves around racial distinctions when Lionel encounters a dying black man in London.  <br />There are a million things to talk about in 'The Last Man,' and a novel so rich for discussion deserves to be read by as many people as possible.  This is a book I warmly recommend, so pick it up and discover that there is more to Mary Shelley than 'Frankenstein'.	2000-11-19
US	51177889	R328OYEP3UTEDK	0140446168	738061198	The Symposium (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	34	N	N	The Wit and Wisdom of Love	Plato's &quot;Symposium&quot; will always be read because there will always be people who question the nature of Love.  Agathon's dinner party is the scene of a conversation between a small group of men, who go around the table offering their views on Love.  What does Love mean to us to-day?  Reading over the responses of the dinner-guests and their host, we find the same range of answers in Ancient Greece that we are likely to find now.<br />Phaedrus and Pausanias are utilitarians and materialists.  Phaedrus looks at love between people and a proto-Burkean love for government and state.  Pausanias complicates the argument, saying that there are two different kinds of love, one which is common and one which is heavenly - yet still oriented towards the real and the tangible.  Eryximachus is a proto-Swedenborg, trying to reconcile or harmonize the two kinds of love.  <br />The jewels of Plato's &quot;Symposium&quot; are Aristophanes and Socrates.  Aristophanes gives us the profoundly moving depiction of Love as a fundamental human need, a desire for completion.  For a writer of comedy, whose aim as an art form is forgiveness and acceptance, Aristophanes's explanation is no surprise, though its depth is amazing.  While women are generally discounted throughout the &quot;Symposium,&quot; not only does Socrates, as we might expect, completely astound his audience (both inside the book and out) with his progressively logical and ascendant view of Love, but he also does it through the voice of a woman, Diotima.  When we realize that Socrates is a character in this fiction, and that his words originate in a woman, the egalitarianism and wisdom of Plato the author truly shines forth, like the absolute beauty he claims as the ultimate goal of Love.<br />Was Plato a feminist?  I don't know.  I do know that the &quot;Symposium&quot; is a tremendous book.  I picked it up and did not stop reading it until I was finished.  The style of the Penguin translation is smooth, with a lighthearted tone that can make you forget that you are reading philosophy.  Plato's comedic masterpiece in the &quot;Symposium&quot; is the character of Alcibiades, who provides the work a fitting end.  Get the &quot;Symposium&quot; and read it now.  You cannot help but Love it...in a Platonic sort of way.	2000-11-10
US	51177889	R3QCAS25HCNU2G	0140431985	474322786	The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner (English Library)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A Possessing Novel	James Hogg's &quot;Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner&quot; is a claustrophobic, terrifying spectacle of a novel.  First published anonymously in 1824, the novel centers around the manuscript of an obscure Scottish Laird who lived in the late 17th and early 18th centuries.  Robert Wringhim is a well-educated, but illegitimate child of the Laird of Dalcastle.  He leaves the estate to live with his mother, also estranged from the estate.  Raised by his adopted father, a zealous Calvinist preacher, Robert grows to despise his biological family.  When, on his 18th birthday, God reveals through the preacher, that Robert is one of the elect, the true action of the novel begins.<br />The novel has an unusual and provocative structure:  an editorial recounting of the story envelops the text of Robert Wringhim's actual 'memoirs and confessions'.  The novel's temporal structure hinges on the 1707 Act of Union which annexed Scotland to England, forming Great Britain.  With the editorial apparatus (and its debt to an oral tradition), and Robert's first person manuscript, Hogg seems to question the methods by which history is written and passed down.  Several versions of Robert's story, from himself, his contemporaries, and the 'editor' who lives over 100 years after the events gives a startling, disturbingly incoherent vision of history.<br />This novel is great for its wranglings with the problems of reconciling money with morality, and religion with the law.  Hogg's primary concern is with the religious issue of antinomianism - the notion that God's elect are free from the dictates of human law.  Robert's election and subsequent relationship with the wildly mysterious, fantastically rendered Gil-Martin put antinomianism to the harshest test.<br />&quot;The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner&quot; is a rather short novel which I recommend highly.  It is an entertaining historical, religious, psychological rollercoaster.  Its blend of sublimely dark humor and social comment is a high achievement in any century.limely dark humor and social comment is a high achievement in any century.	2000-11-07
US	51177889	R2FXTGXA4O2FO	0486245489	476945974	Blake's "America: A Prophecy" and "Europe: A Prophecy": Facsimile Reproductions of Two Illuminated Books	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Empire Is No More!	William Blake's prophetic poems, &quot;America&quot; and &quot;Europe&quot; were both written almost twenty years after the American Revolution began, and about five years or so after the start of the French Revolution in the late 1700's.  Both poems exhibit Blake's intense engagement with the socio-political atmosphere of his time.  Both address contemporary figures:  King George III of England, George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, and so on.  Over this layer of response to history, Blake mythologizes the spirits of the age with his own pantheon of fantastic, complicated personalities, like Orc, the fiery spirit of revolution, and his primary opponent, Urizen, the spirit of rationality, order, and law.  <br />&quot;America&quot; deals with the American Revolution in retrospect, and meanwhile Blake is thinking about recent developments in France in the early 1790's.  Blake questions the persistence of African slavery, both in America and in the British slave trade (note the reference to Bristol towards the end).  He also looks critically at the pervasive and often perverted influence in the British Empire of law, both religious and political.  &quot;Europe&quot; looks at the after effects of the American Revolution, and how the spirit of rebellion, spreading already in &quot;America&quot; to Ireland and Scotland, advances through Europe, especially to France.  &quot;Europe&quot; tries to explain the history of conflict in the world since the time of Christ.  &quot;Europe&quot; is much more abstracted from human history than &quot;America,&quot; depending more on the conflicts between Blake's mythical personages.<br />This edition of &quot;America&quot; and &quot;Europe&quot; published by Dover is of a decent quality.  The prints of Blake's illustrations are in full color, and page-sized to allow for close perusal of his intricate designs.  The copies of the poems seem to have been chosen for the least background color contrast, making Blake's script readable.  However, there are more brilliantly colored versions of both than we get in this edition.  The poems themselves are included in plain text following the illustrated versions.  Each poem is prefixed by a moderately helpful explanation, though too simplistic in both cases - many of the plate descriptions do not even mention all the figures or objects in each plate, which can detract from the fullest enjoyment of the Blake novice.  On the whole, the poetry will always be phenomenal - however, in this Dover edition, the presentation leaves something to be desired.	2000-11-02
US	51177889	R2K2H1KCPPHPOG	0812216725	948963546	An Ethiopian Romance	Books	5	27	27	N	N	An Amazing and Engrossing Novel	Heliodorus' &quot;Ethiopian Romance&quot; is an absolutely wonderful piece of literature!  A novel from around the third century AD, the &quot;Ethiopian Romance&quot; centrally concerns a young man, Theagenes, and his beloved, Charicleia.  The novel begins with an epic scene in which the two lovers console each other in the midst of a scene of total destruction - a banquet scene has degenerated into violence, and they remain on the field alone.  Thyamis, the leader of a band of Egyptian pirates, takes them prisoner, and we are pulled into a spectacular adventure.<br />Beginning in medias res, much of the novel concerns itself with catching the reader up with the events leading to the astounding initial scene.  Heliodorus accomplishes this by way of nested narratives, primarily between two men who, by various accidents, have an interest in Theagenes and Charicleia: Calasiris, an exiled Egyptian priest, and Cnemon, an exiled Athenian youth.  The novel draws heavily on the universal human tendency to tell, and eagerness to hear stories.  In a novel where various marriages are proposed and deferred, it is appropriate that the internal stories and their audiences should express the need to hear stories in terms of desire and gratification.  You find yourself desperate to see how each individual story leads to clarification and understanding of the whole.<br />Heliodorus' characters are well-developed and interesting.  He gives us lovers, pirates, nobles, eunuchs, witches, priests, and schemers, among others.  His plot is as complicated as that of any traditional modern novel, and manages to deal not only with the primary love affair, but with a host of other social issues that still bear importance to-day.  To wit, the ravages of war, economic relationships, ethnic diversity and acceptance, political wranglings, and issues of identity and self-definition in an increasingly cosmopolitan world.  <br />Heliodorus' major influences are clearly the epics of Homer, which are invoked directly and subtly to wonderful effect.  One can sense here that even in the third century, novel writers saw themselves both indebted to the Iliad and the Odyssey, and striving to claim for fiction an artistic worth to rival epic poetry.  The &quot;Ethiopian Romance&quot; is presented in accessible and lively English by Moses Hadas, and comes to you highly recommended.  It is simply a beautiful work and deserves to be read by more people.	2000-11-01
US	51177889	RZKQCT12UCQ3K	0140431292	368205912	The Heart of Midlothian (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	43	43	N	N	The Trials and Triumphs of Jeanie Deans	Sir Walter Scott's 1818 novel, &quot;The Heart of Mid-Lothian&quot; deals with events in the lives of the Deans family from 1736 to the early 1750's.  The novel begins with the 1736 Porteous riots, in which disgruntled citizens of Edinburgh storm the local prison to take revenge on a needlessly cruel official.  With Anglo-Scottish relations in a tailspin and Queen Caroline levying a rash of punishments against Edinburgh in the background, the action of &quot;Mid-Lothian&quot; commences.<br />The principle heroes of the novel are Jeanie Deans and her longtime suitor, Reuben Butler.  The two rustic born youths are from differently oriented Presbyterian ancestry - their parents' religious differences force an almost interminable delay in the progress of their affections.  Butler's extensive formal and ministerial education notwithstanding, his financial position is such that he cannot comfortably propose a union to Jeanie's father.  Further complication arises when Jeanie's younger and more impulsive half-sister, Effie, is seduced and later accused of murdering her child.  The majority of the novel details Jeanie's attempts to question the impropriety of the judgement against her sister, and her interactions with the world outside of provincial northern Scotland.<br />As always, Scott deals with a range of social, economic, political, and legal issues.  Among these in &quot;Mid-Lothian&quot; is the right of the Scottish to control their own internal disputes - are Scottish law and British law compatible?  On a related tip, the novel calls into question whether the governors of the people have sufficient sympathy with and understanding of all the people they govern.  Scott also examines the nature of language - with plain English, various Scottish dialects, and quotations from classical Latin and the Bible - the characters in the novel often have to understand each other before they can adequately communicate.<br />&quot;Mid-Lothian&quot; has a number of quirky and interesting minor characters:  from the soft-spoken, yet intently-staring Dumbiedikes, to the hardline theologian-father David Deans, to the rake George Robertson, to the tragically mysterious Madge Wildfire, to the courtly, wistful Duke of Argyle.  These minor characters add substance, humor, and diversity to Scott's intricate plot.  In &quot;The Heart of Mid-Lothian,&quot; Jeanie Deans, an unpretentious young woman, takes on a world beyond the enclosed experience of her home, bearing the troubles of her family, her community, and her nation on her back.  The result is a great, if sometimes gregarious novel which you will certainly enjoy.	2000-10-29
US	51177889	R26ISOAA3621FS	0140390790	910076659	Wieland and Memoirs of Carwin the Biloquist (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Disrupting the Empire of Rationality	Charles Brockden Brown's first novel, 1798's &quot;Wieland,&quot; is an outstanding, riveting work fraught with anxieties over the new American nation and its enlightened foundations.  Set sometime between 1763 and 1775, &quot;Wieland&quot; is narrated by Clara Wieland, and concerns the fate of her family and friends - her brother Theodore, and their friends Pleyel and Catharine.  Clara is a woman born and raised into a secure world of enlightenment rationality.  She is a model of Wollstonecraftian feminism - educated, astute, and benevolent.<br />Clara's narrative begins with a recitation of her family history - her Anglo-German roots and an account of the family's migration to the American colonies, to wit, Pennsylvania.  Following an account of her father's religious enthusiasm and apparent spontaneous combustion, Clara shows herself and her brother, who equally partition the family estate, living in perfectly rational harmony.  The estate of Mettingen is an enlightened utopia, where the Wielands and the Pleyels discuss literature and virtue, completely oblivious to the outside world.  Though Philadelphia is not far away, the concerns of the city, of commerce, and of politics are not theirs.<br />Their ordered world is soon upset by the manifestation of mysterious disembodied voices around the estate.  Shortly thereafter, Carwin, a rustic stranger with remarkable intelligence and a shrouded past, enters their isolated society.  <br />In &quot;Wieland,&quot; Brown calls into question the enlightened basis of the still new American government.  With fresh knowledge of the failure of the French Revolution, subsequent uprisings in Ireland, and an intense fascination with the radical political philosophies of William Godwin and Mary Wollstonecraft, &quot;Wieland&quot; powerfully engages and synthesizes the currents of its time.  With all the trappings of psychological gothic trauma, Brown, a resident of a nation conceived in liberty, asks whether the ideological breakbetween a rational new world and a traditional, superstitious old world actually changes anything in human nature.	2000-10-26
US	51177889	R2LK3YA61WH2TQ	0140446362	772890581	Poetics (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	79	81	N	N	A Must-Read for Students of Literature	After reading Aristotle's &quot;Poetics,&quot; I felt a severe sense of shame for not having read it much, much sooner.  As a student of literature, I found that many of the concepts upon which my evaluation of literature are based, whether I picked them up in classes or through amateur theorization, are founded in the &quot;Poetics&quot;.  The &quot;Poetics,&quot; which the Penguin editor Malcolm Heath explains in his outstanding introduction/explication, is probably comprised of lecture notes, and not intentionally meant for public consumption, nonetheless stands as the standard against which literary criticism is gauged.  This is amazing, as the work itself is hardly 50 pages long.<br />Aristotle begins by talking about the origins of art in imitation:  Artists convey their sense of the world through imitating what they see and feel around them.  This is accomplished both in visual art, and for a more thorough understanding of human events, in poetry.  Aristotle goes on to explain the history of literature:  how encomium(praises) and invective(curses) give rise respectively to epic and lampoons.  These then pave the way for tragedy and comedy.  In terms of these basic steps, in the later part of the &quot;Poetics,&quot; Aristotle gives definitions to parts of speech, to wit, nouns, verbs, etc., and how they are used in different forms of speech, and in various contexts within the genres he outlines.<br />Spending the greater part of the work on an investigation of tragedy, Aristotle examines the component parts of what he takes to be the best kinds of tragedies.  In terms of quality, the work must be complete, showing the causal relation of events and the causal reactions of characters to those events.  It should have a plot wherein a character or characters experience a reversal of fortune or a recognition that leads to the conclusion of that plot.<br />Plot is essential to Aristotle, and, to appropriate Heath's translation, 'universalizes' the &quot;Poetics&quot; to encompass even those prose works for which Aristotle himself admits to have no definition.  We can apply his standards to short stories, novels, and so on.  Aristotle's notions of unity, completeness, and magnitude are the conventions to which and against which all Western literature and criticism can be seen to either conform to or struggle against.  Without Aristotle's strict definitions of tragedy, comedy, unity, and so on, I can scarcely imagine how we would have notions of mock-tragedy, tragi-comedy, or even the modern or post-modern literary forms.  In short, the &quot;Poetics&quot; is absolutely crucial reading for anyone who reads anything.	2000-10-17
US	51177889	R17PKXN4HS6IQY	0452010055	121900974	The Satyricon (Meridian Classics)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Passive-Aggressive Humour and Satire	Petronius's &quot;Satyricon&quot; is, loosely defined, the story of Encolpius's odyssey through the Mediterranean world of the first century AD.  Encolpius is a freeman and a scholar, whose distaste for popular culture, and disrespect for other people's privacy leads him into a strange, twisted, sexually disorienting series of misadventures.<br />The action of the plot commences when Encolpius stumbles upon a secret ritual performed by followers of Priapus, the Roman god of lust.  In the context of other ancient novels, I think it is extremely important to note that the god who spurs the hero's wanderings is not Eros, the god of love, but Priapus, a perhaps degenerate form of Eros.  Rendered impotent by the angry god, Encolpius begins experiencing external complications as well.  Encolpius's lover, the boy Giton, and his best friend Ascyltus get into repeated quarrels over Giton's preference of partner:  Encolpius or Ascyltus.<br />For a mere boy, Giton is presented throughout the &quot;Satyricon&quot; as its most shrewd and interesting character.  He lurks on the peripheries of the main action, yet the reader can clearly perceive his manipulative actions, as he takes the side in any argument or dispute of the party most likely to win, switching camps at a moment's notice. In the dissolute moral background of Roman imperial society, Giton is shown to be the best at &quot;doing as the Romans do&quot;.<br />As a curse-born eunuch, Encolpius roams about with Giton and the bombastic, and epically terrible poet Eumolpus, trying to restore himself to full masculinity.  Along the way, Petronius presents us with a range of different critiques.  The most impressive of these episodic satires is the oft-cited chapter five, &quot;Dinner with Trimalchio&quot;.  In it, we see a largesse, a gluttony, whose perversions are so outlandish, that we join with Ascyltus in laughing at it, while we secretly revel in its unquestionable splendor.  <br />The excesses of this chapter can be seen as a model for the &quot;Satyricon&quot; itself:  conversations begin and end on a whim; like Trimalchio, Petronius as author can be clearly felt in guiding the course of events.  Trimalchio's restroom breaks are like those times in the narrative where Petronius himself seems to take breaks from the actual plot, as in Eumolpus's extended and inane epic poem on the Roman civil war.  In any event, with all its literary styles, parodic forms, and its stubborn refusal to be simply categorized, the &quot;Satyricon,&quot; even fragmentary as it is, is a fabulous text.  Although some of the colloquialisms he uses are beginning to show signs of advancing age, William Arrowsmith's translation, almost fifty years after initial publication, is still lively and engaging English for a 21st century crowd.	2000-10-17
US	51177889	R1IWUG7RP6CC46	0192835637	13158598	Castle Rackrent (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	38	42	N	N	Unsettling Anglo-Irish Social Satire	Maria Edgeworth's &quot;Castle Rackrent,&quot; published in 1800, the year of Irish union with Great Britain, and just two years after the 1798 Irish Rebellion, is supposedly a comic satire intended to show after years of unrest, that the Irish were civil enough to be assimilated into the British Empire.  That is a deceptively simple description of a book in conflict with its author and itself.  <br />Told to an &quot;editor&quot; by Thady Quirk, the 80+ year old steward of the Rackrent estate relates (very quickly) the story of the Rackrent family, Sir Patrick, Sir Murtagh, Sir Kit, and the absolutely dissolute Sir Condy.  The O'Shaughlin family is forced by the Penal Laws to become Protestant and to change their name to Rackrent to regain their estate.  The variously weak Rackrent men and their extremely strong and independent wives spend themselves into outrageous debt and tax their tenant farmers to the point of insanity over the course of the novel.  <br />Apply Katie Trumpener's argument regarding the importance of the bog to Irish cultural nationalism in her book &quot;Bardic Nationalism,&quot; and you begin to see that, all that seems to preserve the legacy of the O'Shaughlin family is their mucky bog, Allyballycarricko'shaughlin, and Thady Quirk, if he is to be trusted, himself seemingly stuck in a feudal past.<br />One of the major questions posed by Edgeworth's novel is &quot;What is it to be Irish?&quot;  The Anglo-Irish Rackrent landlords claim an Irish Catholic heritage, but forfeit that personal history for the ephemeral run of the estate.  The disenfranchised tenant farmers are forced to yield their produce to support the Rackrents's absurd behaviours.  In the middle of this dynamic stand the novel's two most developed and challenging characters, Sir Condy Rackrent and Jason McQuirk, Thady's son.  Raised in identical circumstances, these two seem to mark the novel's ultimate judgment on the future of Ireland.  Is Condy the last of the feudal Irish aristocracy?  Does Jason represent the model for the &quot;British&quot; assimilated Irishman?<br />Can outsiders even fathom Irishness?  An almost comically unwieldy editorial apparatus, including a glossary and internal footnotes try to neutralize the foreignness and threat of the Irish for Edgeworth's intended British audience.  &quot;Castle Rackrent&quot; is indeed an ambivalent testament to the future of the Irish nation as it is swallowed up into the British Empire at the turn of the 19th century, and an intriguing read.	2000-10-12
US	51177889	R1GB08DLD5KOET	0140440593	413866978	Daphnis and Chloe (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	The Ancient Pastoral Romance	Longus's ancient novel, &quot;Daphnis and Chloe&quot; tells the absolutely charming story of a boy (Daphnis) and a girl (Chloe), left to die by exposure in the Greek countryside.  Miraculously, the deities are watching out for them--a goat is selected to nurse Daphnis, and a sheep to nurse Chloe--until a goatherd, Lamo, and a shepherd, Dryas, respectively discover the two children.  They are raised in the town of Mytilene, a humble agricultural community, where they tend their adopted fathers's herds of goats and sheep.  <br />Here, the mischievous god of love, Eros, sets them aflame with love for each other.  Both Daphnis and Chloe are extremely innocent in their affections throughout the novel, experimenting with their feelings and exposing the amusing limits of their little knowledge.  Various incidents involving pirates, kidnapping, inter-city war between Mytilene and Methymna, and the suit of Chloe by a host of lusty young men all provide interesting diversions from the main love story.  With a very casual cultural attitude towards homoerotic love, we also see the impertinent male slave, Gnatho, make advances toward the clueless Daphnis.  Daphnis's run-in with Lycaenium, a married woman of Mytilene, is also an episode of note in the complex sexual landscape of Longus's novel.<br />Another intriguing factor in Longus's novel is the relationship between humanity and nature.  The figure of the goat is omnipresent throughout the novel.  Standing apart from our own cultural/religious associations with the goat, in &quot;Daphnis and Chloe,&quot; the goat is all at once associated with maternity, reverence, respect, and honesty.  In the novel, we see humanity in general in harmony with the natural world all around: plant, beast, and natural divinities.  <br />Into this seemingly innocent landscape, Longus introduces the problematics of class and wealth.  The love story between Daphnis and Chloe is further stalled while these issues play themselves out.  Society's intrusion into the pastoral story seems to indicate the fantastic nature of the idyll itself.  &quot;Daphnis and Chloe&quot; is a brilliant and beautiful ancient tale, and well worth the short time it takes to read.	2000-10-12
US	51177889	R1389PT5HKANIT	0691044805	960681231	Bardic Nationalism	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Reinterpreting Cultural Nationalism and Empire	In an effort to move beyond a simple historical recontextualization of the Romantic Era novel which explains literary turmoil in terms of various political revolutions, Katie Trumpener's &quot;Bardic Nationalism&quot; attempts a thorough exploration of the period's social and cultural anxieties, along with changes in political thought, to track the development of the novel and its impact in the burgeoning British Empire.  Trumpener sees herself at the forefront of an innovative reading of reading of the novel and its social function during the Romantic Era.  Trumpener focuses her attention in this study on the controversy in the British Isles over the 'correct' telling of history within the empire, between what Bhabha might call the &quot;totalizing pedagogy&quot; of the antiquarian, one interested in historical fact evidenced in written manuscripts, and the oral tradition of the Celtic bard, who derives his authority from an established tradition of cultural knowledge.  <br />Building on strains of nationalist criticism within imperial contexts by Benedict Anderson, Michael Herzfeld, and Reinhart Koselleck--whose takes on the subject range from nationalism arising out of a forced sense of individualism within a depersonalized empire to a dialectical model in which oppressed cultures react and respond as units repeatedly against invading and invasive forces--Trumpener positions herself in a decidedly dialectical model, suggesting that the antiquarian/bard controversy is the starting point for an imperial/nationalist argument that finds a rich, if unresolved, battleground in the Romantic novel.  What is at stake in these primarily Irish and Scottish works for Trumpener revolves around the following key issues:  the subsuming of local identity within a rapidly-growing economic machine, the loss thereafter of traditional local culture, the collapse of the family unit upon the return of Anglo-Imperial players to England, the displacement of the maternal, and what Trumpener sees as the unfortunate scholarly tendency to assume that colonial fiction did not come into existence until the Victorian Era.  <br />Trumpener exhorts the postcolonial critics who follow her to &quot;reread colonial literature itself&quot; to discover the roots of postcolonial anxieties.  A strong work in itself, &quot;Bardic Nationalism&quot; breaks ground in the direction Trumpener points out, returning to source materials from a period of intense colonial activity, both at home in the British Isles, and abroad for the British Empire.  <br />While not in the least detracting from her overall effectiveness, Trumpener's inclusion of fiction and poetry from the Victorian Era and even the late twentieth century occasionally disrupts the flow of her argument.  In a study of the Romantic Era, one is surprised to find only passing reference to that major novel genre, the Gothic, and little attention focused on the narratives of slave owners (to wit, Matthew Lewis's &quot;Journal of a West India Proprietor&quot; and Crevecoeur's &quot;Letters from an American Farmer&quot;) which seem so appropriate for a discussion like the one found in Chapter Four, where she modifies a popular interpretation of Edward Said.  Also unsettling is the near critical reinstatement of Sir Walter Scott as literary paradigm in the book's final chapter after arguing the opposite over the course of Chapter Three, where she very cleverly takes on Georg Lukacs's reading of the historical novel.  <br />These are, on the whole, minor difficulties with a well-written and well-argued critical work.  Trumpener's prose is clear and direct, and her arguments are delivered, supported, and concluded in a brisk, and readable fashion.  Trumpener offers both Romantic and postcolonial scholars an exciting vantage point from which to view nationalist and imperial modes of literary expression, keeping in mind historical contexts and prominent gender issues.	2000-10-12
US	51177889	R1SJ9I3B0LQDPY	0140431594	735091663	The Vicar of Wakefield (Penguin English Library)	Books	5	44	44	N	N	The Consolations of Philosophy and Religion	Oliver Goldsmith's 1766 novel, &quot;The Vicar of Wakefield&quot; offers the trials and tribulations of Primrose, an ecclesiastic living in the English countryside.  Primrose is content in his life, with a faithful wife, and lovely, if somewhat distracted children.  Hearing that his banker has gotten into trouble and fled the country, Primrose and his family begin a series of adventures which test the strength of Primrose's convictions.<br />Among the issues which Goldsmith addresses in the novel are social ambition in a rigid class system, the drawbacks and benefits of a relatively liberal household, and the admittedly imperfect nature of the British legal system.  Sprinkled throughout the novel are various discourses on the notion of liberty, the primacy of the monarchy, and a wealth of interesting references to British imperialism and colonial slavery.  <br />Regarding the class system, Primrose seems throughout the novel, to eschew the idea that social or economic mobility is possible, or even desirable.  He posits, in a way that follows Aristotle and Edmund Burke, that people are fit for certain stations by their very nature; and that such social partitioning is right and should be maintained.  Primrose also appears as a latter day Horace, championing the virtues of simple, rustic life.  This pastoral life is directly associated in the novel with the laboring classes, who, not without faults themselves, manage to avoid the intrigues and excesses of the consistently vilified city folk.<br />Goldsmith's writing style is fast-paced, with clear, direct language, wonderfully rendered characters, and a surprising number of plot twists for so short a work.  Primrose and his eldest son George are the two finest characters in the novel.  Both exhibit a picaresque tendency to wander and interact - Primrose with the intellectual/philosophical elements, and George with the material/experiential elements in the world.  This is altogether a wonderful, spirited novel, and Stephen Coote's introduction to this Penguin edition is excellent in its explication of the novel's major themes and concerns.	2000-10-01
US	51177889	R2HUFM3QE10ER8	0472084100	172319246	The History of Mary Prince, A West Indian Slave, Related by Herself: Revised Edition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Woman's Voice and the Experience of Slavery	First published in 1831, &quot;The History of Mary Prince&quot; is an extraordinary cultural document.  It is the first published account of a female British ex-slave.  Mary Prince, a slave in the West Indies in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, tells the story of her life in an effort to awaken sympathy for the abolitionist movement in England.<br />Mary particularly emphasizes instances of the arbitrary punishments meted out by her various masters.  She repeatedly questions how the British, a civilized nation, could permit its colonists to treat its colonial work force like brute beasts.  Mary elicits our attention and respect in the ways she manages to resist the brutality of her masters, both physically and vocally.  She often shows herself speaking out against cruelty regardless of social taboos, accepted colonial norms of unquestioning obedience, and the image of the &quot;benevolent&quot; slave owner.<br />Mary's narrative is also remarkable for her characterization as the &quot;self-made heroine.&quot;  Mary tells us extensively about her attempts to save enough money to purchase her freedom, and to engage, convert, and marry the man of her choice.  As the editor of this edition points out, as Mary begins to learn the value of her labor, she more easily manipulates her owners into realizing their own powerlessness over her.  A sort of Wollstonecraftian feminist hero, Mary Prince bases her self-definition on her ability to be financially, as well as physically independent, and to improve herself through education and religion.  <br />One limitation of &quot;The History of Mary Prince&quot; is the fact that it was only dictated by Prince.  It was transcribed and published by British abolitionists, who may have suggested the emphasis on brutality and deemphasis on specifically sexual violence.  It is impossible to know the extent of the editing process, which was out of Prince's hands.  Nonetheless, this edition, edited by Moira Ferguson, contains many relevant historical documents which provide a rich context for Prince's narrative.	2000-09-24
US	51177889	R38L6XM2RW0M24	0671722646	497220577	Henry IV Part 2	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Making of a King	Shakespeare's &quot;Henry IV Part II&quot; concerns the triumphant decline of King Henry IV, and the ascension of his son, Henry, Prince of Wales, to  the throne as King Henry V.  As in &quot;Henry IV Part I,&quot; Part II's  main action concerns the attempts of the King to suppress civil strife,  which is manifested once again in threatened rebellion.  In &quot;Henry IV  Part II,&quot; the rebels are led by Scroop, the Archbishop of York, the  most powerful religious figure in England.  The Archbishop's involvement  &quot;turns insurrection to religion,&quot; thereby hoping to gain popular  support and enlistment in the army against Henry IV.  <br />Henry, Prince of  Wales, as the next in line to the throne, is expected to take a hard line  against these threats, and lead the charge against the rebel forces.   However, as in Part I, Prince Henry is nervous, as a young man will be,  about accepting responsibility for himself, much less for an entire nation.   A frivolous youth, he associates with the common folk in bars and taverns,  led in his debaucheries by the notoriously comic Sir John Falstaff.  The  dichotomy between Prince Henry's father figures, the frail, but courageous  King Henry IV and the robust, but cowardly Falstaff sets up the scope of  the choice Prince Henry must make.  His choice, he comes to realize, will  affect the course of his country.<br />The forces mount as the play moves  forward - the King's army is ordered, well-equipped, and led by formidable  generals - the Archbishop's army is made up largely of untrained citizens.   The meeting of the armies' leaders in the Gaultree Forest of Yorkshire is  the emotional and tactical climax of the play, and handled with dramatic  precision by Shakespeare.<br />The growth of Prince Henry, the shaping of his  mind, his relationships with his noble father and brothers, as well as  those with his low, vulgar drinking buddies, forms the focus of &quot;Henry  IV Part II.&quot;  Through five deceptively simple acts, Shakespeare  illustrates the birth of a man and a king, and points the way to domestic  peace.  This is a play I enjoyed very much indeed, and would recommend  reading alongside &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; for maximum effect.	2000-08-15
US	51177889	RBFHH0ZFMOC9Y	0140714154	764423438	The Tempest (Shakespeare, Pelican)	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Magic, Power, and Conspiracy on a Remote Island	Comedy, in the strictest sense, is concerned with ultimate forgiveness and reconciliation. In Shakespeare's play, &quot;The Tempest,&quot; the  protagonist, Prospero, must come to terms with his brother Antonio, who  conspired to have him driven from his duchy in Milan, and with the world of  social interaction in general.<br />Magic, Power, and Conspiracy are the  foundational thematic elements through which Shakespeare effects Prospero's  reintegration into human society. Thrown into a boat with his infant  daughter Miranda, Prospero comes to live on a nearly deserted island in the  Mediterranean Sea. Prospero's concentration on developing his proficiency  in Magic caused him to become alienated from his political and social  responsibilities in Milan, leading to his expulsion. His brother Antonio  conspired with Alonso, king of Naples, and seized the power Prospero  forsook for book-learning.<br />Prospero hears of a sea voyage undertaken by  his enemies, and, using his Magic, whips up a storm, a great tempest, which  causes his enemies to be shipwrecked on his island. On the island, Prospero  exercises total power - over the education of his daughter, his slave, the  deformed Caliban, and now over his enemies. He engages Ariel, a sprite, to  orchestrate the division of the traveling party, and to put them through  various trials to exact vengeance and ultimately, submission from them.<br />&quot;The Tempest&quot; is a fine effort from Shakespeare, but the power  relations in the play are problematic. Prospero's insistent dominance over  the action of the play is extremely troubling. Although he is presented as  a benevolent character, Prospero's relationships with Miranda, Caliban, and  Ferdinand, King Alonso's son, complicate his overall worth as a man and an  authority figure. The dynamic between the slave Caliban and the drunks,  Trinculo and Stephano, is also very unsettling.<br />Overall, &quot;The  Tempest&quot; remains a whimsical flight of imagination, while exploring  intriguing themes of education, political intrigue, and romance. Certainly,  it is still a well-constructed and entertaining play after nearly four  hundred years.on, while exploring  intriguing themes of education, political intrigue, and romance. Certainly,  it is still a well-constructed and entertaining play after nearly four  hundred years.	2000-08-15
US	51177889	R3T1YD919D8ESA	0671722638	53462480	Henry IV Part 1	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Henry IV, Part I:  Civil and Domestic Drama	Shakespeare's &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; shows King Henry IV dealing with complex problems:  England is in the midst of civil unrest, as the Percy  family, angered by their treatment after unwittingly helping Henry IV  ascend to the throne, threatens to depose the monarch.  At home, Henry IV  is despairing over the development of his son, Henry, Prince of Wales, heir  to the throne.  Prince Henry consorts with thieves, rogues, and scoundrels  - his scandalous personal relationships seem to threaten the King's peace  of mind more than the state of his kingdom.<br />Aside from these larger  concerns that frame the play, &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; deals more with  Prince Henry than it does with the monarch of the title.  Throughout the  play, Prince Henry is seen more amongst the rabble commoners than attending  to matters of state.  He is guided in his licentiousness by the enormously  funny (pun intended) Sir John Falstaff, whose schemes and drunkenness are  more innocent and endearing in Part I than they become in Part II.<br />Falstaff's reckless and conceited behaviour casts a shadow over the  entire play, symbolic as it is of Prince Henry's moral dilemma and of the  precarious state of the nation.  Falstaff instantly calls to mind Kenneth  Grahame's magnificent Mr. Toad from &quot;The Wind in the Willows,&quot;  and is Toad's direct literary forefather.  Falstaff is the most interesting  and dynamic figure in &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; and certainly the most  memorable character in the play.<br />Prince Henry discovers that his  responsibilities outweigh his fondness for Spanish wine, and is called to  lead the King's army against that of the arrogant 'Hotspur' Percy, himself  a rising political force.  Their confrontation, brilliantly scripted and  enacted, is central to Shakespeare's entire Lancaster-York saga, and should  be read closely and with special attention.<br />Of the two parts of  &quot;Henry IV,&quot; Part I is by far the best and most flawlessly  executed.  The King's problems provide an adequate backdrop for the  development of Prince Henry; 'Hotspur' is an excellent antagonist (with the  whole Percy family offering a great contrast with that of the King); and  Falstaff performs his role without dominating the play, as he tends to in  Part II.  Shakespeare does not need my praise or endorsement, but his  &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; blows me away.  It is absolutely fantastic.executed.  The King's problems provide an adequate backdrop for the  development of Prince Henry; 'Hotspur' is an excellent antagonist (with the  whole Percy family offering a great contrast with that of the King); and  Falstaff performs his role without dominating the play, as he tends to in  Part II.  Shakespeare does not need my praise or endorsement, but his  &quot;Henry IV Part I&quot; blows me away.  It is absolutely fantastic.	2000-08-15
US	51177889	R267JBRVVU857D	0140440704	513016259	Beowulf: A Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)paperback	Books	4	5	9	N	N	The First English Epic	&quot;Beowulf,&quot; a poem written sometime between the eighth and tenth  centuries AD, is the first surviving epic in what would become the English  language.  Beowulf is a young man, who, in his youth, was an unsettled,  unmotivated prince of the Danish Geats.  As he matures, he hears of a  neighbouring king's problems, and ventures on the sea to help out.   Beowulf's motivation is to rise above his early dissipation and make a name  of fame and glory through great deeds.<br />Beowulf's relationship with the  troubled king Hrothgar, and his feud with the demonic beast Grendel are  integral parts of this work, known to students of English throughout the  world.  Through all the war-boasts, battles, and gift-giving, look for the  touching humility of Beowulf, rendering him a complex and emotionally  involving character.  <br />Even in translation, the syntax of  &quot;Beowulf&quot; can be convoluted and difficult to follow, but the  outline of the story despite its language and frequent flashbacks, is still  easy to discern and appreciate.  &quot;Beowulf&quot; offers us a glimpse  into two cultures:  The culture of the writer, along with his values,  religious and social; and The culture of Beowulf, from centuries before the  writer, a society based on kinship and reciprocality.  For those who  enjoyed Michael Crichton's &quot;The 13th Warrior,&quot; nee &quot;Eaters  of the Dead,&quot; &quot;Beowulf&quot; is an important literary forebear,  and it is wonderful to read the two together and compare.	2000-08-10
US	51177889	R1DSB7PTMG77J5	046087246X	906972549	Midsummer Night's Dream (Everyman Shakespeare)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Shakespeare At His Most Charming	&quot;A Midsummer Night's Dream&quot; is one of Shakespeare's most  charming and intelligent comedies.  Exploring with humour the theme of  star-crossed lovers that he deals with tragically in &quot;Romeo and  Juliet,&quot; Shakespeare here takes three troubled relationships and has  them intersect in the most amusing ways.<br />The impending nuptials of  Theseus and Hippolyta set the background for the play, and are certainly  the most distant, both from the immediate action, and in terms of romantic  possibility.  Theirs is a cool, rational relationship, seemingly devoid of  passion.  The already-married Oberon and Titania, king and queen of  fairies, provide another marital backdrop.  Both seem to be jealous of the  other's chosen distractions, which deprive them of each other's company.   Finally, the main action of the play concerns the love affair between  Lysander and Hermia.  Hermia's father, Egeus, wants his daughter to marry  Demetrius, and does not approve of Lysander at all.  Helena, Hermia's  friend, is smitten with Demetrius, and so, the conflicts begin.<br />Oberon  initiates the action of the play, goading his mischievous aid-de-camp,  Puck, to stir up trouble with a love-inducing flower amongst both the human  lovers and the fairy queen Titania.  Foible and folly ensue when Puck  starts into his work.  Throw in some common craftsmen from Athens who are  trying to put together a simple play for Theseus's wedding, and you have  all the ingredients for enchantment.  <br />In &quot;A Midsummer Night's  Dream,&quot; Shakespeare not only delves into the intricacies of human  relationships on a romantic level, but also at the social, class, and  interpersonal levels.  He even critiques/celebrates the habits of his late  16th century audiences to intriguing effect.  If you are tired of tragedy  or think Shakespeare too distant or foreboding, pick up &quot;A Midsummer  Night's Dream,&quot; and you will find a solidly funny and endearing read.	2000-08-10
US	51177889	R1OR471AOTLH1L	1551112175	599964857	The Victim of Prejudice	Books	3	2	4	N	N	More on the Wrongs of Woman in the 18th century	Mary Hays's &quot;The Victim of Prejudice&quot; is the story of Mary  Raymond, a young woman, who, from birth, seems destined to suffer.  The  'prejudice' of the title consists of unfair societal standards that exclude  all but the wealthy, well-born, and influential.  Mary is raised by her  guardian, Mr. Raymond, on a small estate in the country, where he teaches  her far more than any woman of her class and birth is expected to know by  society.<br />From her youth, Mary is tormented and pursued by Sir Peter  Osborne - a depraved example of the type of man Raymond warns Mary about  that are out in the world.  At Raymond's death, Mary is thrown out into  that world to fend for herself, and the virtues and knowledge taught her by  her guardian are all put to the test.  <br />Like Mary Wollstonecraft's  unfinished novel &quot;Maria, or the Wrongs of Woman,&quot; Hays short  novel is a work meant to display feminist indignation at the treatment of  women in the late 18th century.  Also like Wollstonecraft, Hays  appropriates some of the motifs of gothic fiction to underscore the extreme  evils that men, law, and society are allowed to perpetrate against women.   &quot;The Victim of Prejudice&quot; can tend toward melodrama, but is an  important text of early British feminism and illustrates the domestic and  personal concerns of the female Romantics.	2000-08-07
US	51177889	RNMFXCOPPTLG2	0877530351	131357050	Cenci: A Tragedy in Five Acts	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Intense Melodrama from P.B. Shelley	Percy Shelley's tragedy &quot;The Cenci&quot; is a lyrical and intense gothic melodrama set in late 1500's Italy.  The play centers around the lives of the noble house of Cenci, which is daily terrorized by Francesco  Cenci, head of the household.  Francesco is molded in the style of other  gothic villains, such as Radcliffe's Montoni and Walpole's Manfred, yet he  manages to stand apart from them.<br />Cenci is, in both word and deed, more  insistently evil than either of the aforementioned figures.  Cenci's  purpose, unlike the other two, is not to increase his wealth, or secure his  lineage, but instead to bring both to ruin.  From the beginning of the  play, Cenci seeks to eliminate his entire family.  He firmly believes that  his curses are heard and enacted simply because he is the authority figure  in his home.  <br />Beatrice, Cenci's daughter, and her step-mother, Lucretia  live in a state of constant apprehension and fear of Cenci.  Beatrice is  the tragic heroine of Shelley's play, whose beauty, apparent intelligence,  and strong will prepare her only to be fully aware of the injustices of her  father, common law, and religious law, and her inability to enlist the  mercy of any of them to aid her family.  <br />As Beatrice, her family, and  friends, attempt to wrangle out of Cenci's designs, they find themselves  drawn into a whirlpool of desperate acts.  The gender issues and politics  of the play indicate the helplessness of women, be they strong (Beatrice)  or weak (Lucretia), and point out a total disdain for autocratic and  aristocratic rule, be it familial or otherwise.  <br />Written in 1819, only a  few years after Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo, these issues may be a direct  response to the disillusionment of Shelley, a second-generation Romantic  poet, with the failure of the French Revolution to affect any real change.   Poetically, it may echo his doubts about the effects of the Romantic  visionary imagination.  At any rate, &quot;The Cenci&quot; is a  well-written, if occasionally outlandish tragedy, and certainly worth  reading.	2000-07-28
US	51177889	R2NTT09FN5NUES	0393311694	159181936	Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman	Books	3	30	31	N	N	Maria - The Female Caleb Williams	&quot;Maria&quot; is an unfinished novel which Wollstonecraft intended to  display the cruelty, injustice, and utter lack of personal freedom of women  in the late 18th century.  Drawing on sources from Rousseau, to her husband  William Godwin's &quot;Political Justice&quot; and &quot;Caleb  Williams,&quot; to her own &quot;Vindication of the Rights of Woman,&quot;  Wollstonecraft sets up a scenario in which a woman falls prey to the  maddening strictures of law.  Although it may not initially appear so,  &quot;Maria&quot; is very much in the strain of gothic literature.   Wollstonecraft takes pains to illustrate that the gothic need not be  enacted in castles or by demons, but can be just as horrifying, if not more  so, when 'normal' society proves to be an intractable villain itself.   <br />The novel reads like a philosophical treatise, the main action being  life stories told by the primary characters, Maria, her mad-house warden  Jemima, and her unlikely lover, Henry Darnford, including their digressive  running commentaries.  As the novel begins, Maria is in the mad-house,  deprived of her infant daughter by her greedy husband, George Venables,  whom she despises.  <br />As in Godwin's &quot;Caleb Williams,&quot;  Wollstonecraft does not scruple to pile severe mental anguish upon clear  injustices to drive home her points regarding society's treatment of women.   Her most vicious attacks are reserved for the law and surprisingly, for  women.  The law preserves a basis for treating women as perpetual minors,  and unfortunately, women, realizing their powerlessness, too often resign  themselves to their lot.   <br />Though fragmentary and incomplete,  &quot;Maria&quot; has the same kind of power as &quot;Caleb Williams,&quot;  and the two should be read together for maximum effect.  The force of  Wollstonecraft's writing comes from the fact that her observations were  just, and that she dared to voice them on behalf of all women.	2000-07-19
US	51177889	R3LPZSMX7E31	0140185356	851439417	Monsignor Quixote (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Don and Sancho Ride Again!	Graham Greene is simply fantastic.  This is a novel I waited a long time to read.  I actually read Cervantes' &quot;Don Quixote&quot; first, in the very edition Greene cites, J.M. Cohen's translation in the Penguin  Classics, so that I could pay adequate respect to Greene, and the spirit of  his work.  <br />Persecuted by self-doubt at being promoted to the clerical  rank of monsignor, Father Quixote, a parish priest of El Toboso, and  'Sancho' Zancas, the former mayor of the town, go for a holiday before  undertaking the next phase of their lives.  In a novel concerned with  trying to differentiate between fact and fiction, certainty and doubt, the  two must leave the shelter of comfortable, structured belief and challenge  each other's resolve, as well as gauge the world's response to those  beliefs.  Over the course of their adventures, they drink bottle upon  bottle of wine and talk about their lives and their belief systems,  Catholicism and Marxism, respectively.   <br />In &quot;Monsignor  Quixote&quot;, Greene does a marvelous job creating complex, realistic, and  emotionally involving characters.  His Quixote and Sancho are indeed what  one might expect if Cervantes' characters had descendants living in the  mid-20th century.  The novel, like that of Cervantes, achieves its  brilliance through dialogue, with little attention to physical  descriptions, aside from what is absolutely necessary to form an image.  <br />I do not recall the last time so short a work (it is barely over 200  pages) gave me such cause to laugh, weep, and think so deeply.  Though  Greene's tone may favour Catholic sentiment, it is far from orthodox, and  fit for a literate and thoughtful audience.  My only problem with the novel  upon finishing it was that it was not much, much longer.	2000-07-18
US	51177889	R377ALTIRTXGOM	0192833685	974125862	Northanger Abbey, Lady Susan, The Watsons, and Sanditon (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	I Quite Doat on Northanger Abbey!	Every time I read another Jane Austen novel, I get the insanely anachronistic urge to write her a letter, and tell her how I adore her work.  I quite doat on Jane Austen!<br />On a winter holiday in the  fashionable resort town of Bath, 17-year old Catherine Morland welcomes  everyone she meets into her impressionable, if somewhat dense heart.  The  refreshingly honest Tilneys (Henry and Eleanor) and the unapologetically  vain Thorpes (John and Isabella) form her central acquaintances.   &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot; is a charming metafiction in which Catherine,  living in a prototypical small village, goes innocently into the world, and  cannot help but have her perceptions altered.  <br />Catherine's obsession  with gothic fiction and Austen's 'cliff notes' narrative technique work  together to achieve a briskly-paced, and highly amusing story, unlike  anything else of hers that I am familiar with.  She does indeed satirize  gothic fiction, but also uses this forum to poke gentle fun at the very  people who read her own novels, and others like them.<br />To that end, the  novel is split between two different ways of reading and understanding -  that of Catherine and that of her accidental lover, Henry Tilney.   Catherine is the all-believing, undiscerning method, willing to equate the  superficial with the real.  Henry is the more sophisticated intellect, with  a view to the underlying realities of situation and personality.  One  notable result of these competing epistemologies, is Austen's insistence on  acknowledging and legitimizing the literary merit of female authors, and  the earnest call for female scholastic and social education beyond  knitting, dancing, and romance. <br />To have the fullest understanding of  &quot;Northanger Abbey,&quot; it is advisable to take some time to first  read Radcliffe's &quot;The Mysteries of Udolpho,&quot; then compare  Catherine to Radcliffe's Emily St. Aubert.  Those who dislike  &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot; because it isnot like &quot;Pride and  Prejudice&quot; or &quot;Emma&quot; would place too severe of a limit on  the range and depth of Austen's authorial skill.  This novel purposely  stands on its own as a challenge to the comfort of traditional romance, and  is a welcome change of pace.	2000-07-14
US	51177889	R1916R6ZZMFR2T	0140442812	282196353	Persian Letters (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	24	30	N	N	&quot;The Laborious Search for Wisdom&quot;	Montesquieu's &quot;Persian Letters&quot; consist primarily of the collected correspondence of Usbek and Rica, two Persian travelers abroad in Europe in search of knowledge.  For those familiar with Said's theories of  Orientalism, this is an exemplary text to see how 18th century France  thought of its Ottoman rivals, and how those views reflect the state of  French society.<br />Usbek, Rica, and their various correspondents discuss  matters touching on gender, politics, the nature of the self, history,  religion, and culture.  While these letters make up the majority of the  novel, the few letters Montesquieu inserts from Usbek's wives and eunuch  servants are by far the novel's most interesting pieces, and unfortunately,  the most frequently overlooked.<br />As Usbek sojourns across Europe over the  course of many years, contemplating universal issues, his wives and eunuchs  bring a sense of stark reality to the &quot;Persian Letters&quot;.  In  these letters, we see all too clearly the domestic unrest arising out of  even enlightened monarchy.  The neglected wives, locked away from society  in the harem, and the pitiable eunuchs, who must guard them, offer  profoundly personal opinions on the causes and effects of a rigid class  structure.<br />&quot;Persian Letters&quot; is a valuable text for the layman  interested in gauging the currents of thought in the early 18th century.  A  best-seller in its own time, Montesquieu's most abstracted philosophies are  rendered accessible through story and fable, showing his authorial range.   For the casual reader, the letters are for the most part very short and  quite entertaining.  For the scholarly-minded, this is a work with  seemingly limitless critical appeal.	2000-07-14
US	51177889	R1GVOHYQ7M431H	0192835920	536177728	Melmoth the Wanderer (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	100	105	N	N	Melmoth - The Anti-Quixote	Maturin's &quot;Melmoth the Wanderer&quot; is a brilliantly constructed work of gothic fiction.  One hundred years after Jonathan Swift, Maturin takes up his Irish predecessor's gift for harsh, even malevolent satire  against any and all offenders - organized religion, government, lovers,  warriors - even making broad, devastating comments on humanity in general.   Maturin and his characters are quick to point out that this is not  'Radcliffe-romance' gothic, in the direct style of works like &quot;The  Mysteries of Udolpho&quot;.  They are right.  Rather than the seemingly  landscape-obsessed, rationalistic Radcliffe, Maturin takes his direct  gothic influences from the claustrophobic psychological terrors of Godwin's  &quot;Caleb Williams,&quot; Lewis' &quot;The Monk,&quot; and M.W. Shelley's  &quot;Frankenstein.&quot;  <br />Unlike &quot;The Monk,&quot; however,  Maturin's novel does not rely heavily on Lewis' supernatural machinery  (ghosts, demons, bleeding nuns, etc.). Instead, he offers several  apparently unconnected stories that concentrate on families in desperate  straits and individuals in extreme crises, pushing the limits of man's  inhumanity to man.  The connecting element, the wild card with the wild  eyes, that pops up just when the characters most/least need him, is Melmoth  the Wanderer.  <br />&quot;Melmoth&quot; also draws heavily from Cervantes'  &quot;Don Quixote,&quot; which provides a great point of comparison for the  main character.  Where Don Quixote was a wandering knight, pledged to help  the helpless, Melmoth is a wandering agent of evil, whose mission is to  prey on the helpless.  Melmoth has 150 years to tempt the indigent and  desperate into selling their souls for wealth, power, or simple relief, and  trading places with him.<br />Again looking backward to &quot;Quixote&quot;  and forward to Stoker's &quot;Dracula,&quot; &quot;Melmoth&quot; is also  heavily concerned with it's own construction as a text.  The various  stories are pieced together by eyewitnesses, interviewers, and ancient  manuscripts, often at several removes from their originals.  There is even  one gentleman in the novel who is collecting material to write a book about  Melmoth the Wanderer.  <br />This is not a book for everyone.  Maturin often  provides almost excessively long preludes before any action occurs in his  nested narratives.  The traumas he inflicts on Melmoth's targets can drive  you to the point of insanity yourself.  However, if you are a admirer of  the psychological thriller without all the show of your standard  gothic-terror text, &quot;Melmoth the Wanderer&quot; is sure to keep you  busy for days, if not weeks.	2000-07-12
US	51177889	R1KYHRA8J68LNQ	0140436030	374643563	The Monk (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	89	97	N	N	This Book Is Rated &quot;R&quot;...	Matthew Lewis' &quot;The Monk&quot; is not a book you should read to little kids at bed-time.  In the  tradition of works like Walpole's &quot;Castle of Otranto&quot; and Radcliffe's &quot;Mysteries of  Udolpho,&quot; &quot;The Monk&quot; uses the established standards of the  gothic romance, and takes them all to outrageous extremes.  The novel  explores themes of sexuality, violence, and sexual violence at great  length.  While some may find these play themselves out in a rather tame  fashion by to-day's standards, consider that this novel was written and  published in 1796 by a member of the British Parliament.  <br />The title  monastic is Ambrosio, who was abandoned by his parents as an infant.   Raised in a monastery, Ambrosio is a religious fast-tracker taught to  disdain sin and hold himself up as a model of purity, untempted by secular  pleasure.  In Madrid, as the novel begins, he is the young abbot, leader of  a monastery.  A mesmerizing public speaker, Ambrosio becomes proud and  vain, as his popular weekly sermons quickly raise him to the status of an  idol.  Mischief and misfortunes ensue as Ambrosio's real virtues are put to  the test.<br />What gradually appears to be nothing more than cheap  melodramatic pornography is actually a sophisticated critique of the  socio-political atmosphere of the late 18th century.  &quot;The Monk&quot;  operates as a critique not only of Roman Catholicism, but of religious  fervor in general.  The novel also has much to say about the nature of fame  and hero-worship, making it relevant even to-day. &quot;The Monk&quot; also  explores themes of government in general - showing the pros and cons of  theocracy, oligarchy, pure democracy, and even questions matters of  self-governance.  <br />Without getting over-serious, I should also note that  Lewis manages to sneak instances of humour into his gothic romance.   &quot;The Monk&quot; is at times, a great deal of fun to read.  It has all  the requisite elements of a rainy-night novel - obscure legends, magic  spells, terrible demons, chase scenes, and intersecting love stories.   &quot;The Monk&quot; is a fantastic and engaging novel, and one which you  will not soon forget after reading.	2000-07-05
US	51177889	RTYB96TGNITMI	0192825232	206489188	The Mysteries of Udolpho (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Passion and Reason - A Heady Brew	Ann Radcliffe's &quot;The Mysteries of Udolpho&quot; is as much a transitionary work between the enlightenment and romanticism, as it is a traditional horror story.  In it, we follow Emily St. Aubert as she tries  to reconcile her father's teachings of reserve and moderation with the  reckless passions of love and fear.  <br />Between her father's dying requests  that initiate the action of the novel, and the mysterious secret chambers  of Chateau le Blanc and the ominous Castle Udolpho, Emily attempts to  control her overflows of emotion in order to resolve doubts about herself  and the world around her.<br />The first third of the novel will appeal to  art-lovers, who will revel in Radcliffe's florid, epic landscapes from the  Italian sea-coast to the wine country of southern France.  The remainder of  the novel shows Radcliffe's manipulation of what have become standards of  the gothic-terror  genres, foremost being building and maintaining  suspense.  The ways in which Radcliffe poses questions, answers them, and  then retracts the answers keep even the most astute reader in the dark  straight through to the end.<br />While Radcliffe is quick to indulge flights  of emotional and poetic fancy, she carefully balances this with the notion  that the well-adjusted person can balance these impulses with  self-governing rationality.  The fact that the story's protagonist is a  young woman bears further implications for Radcliffe's vision in terms of  female empowerment and ability to cope with the terrors of the 'real  world'.<br />A dense, convoluted plot, still-relevant themes, and charming  minor characters keep &quot;The Mysteries of Udolpho&quot; worth reading  over 200 years after it was first published.	2000-07-03
US	51177889	RYI80VT7TFD1L	0192836560	164999662	Vathek (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	The Price of Knowledge	Beckford's &quot;Vathek&quot; is the tale of Vathek, a Caliph from the near east, for whom gluttony is a way of life.  He partakes of everything to extremes in his marvelous palace - food, wine, women, and most  importantly, knowledge.  His mother Catharis encourages and fosters his  love of the dark arts, by which he comes to summon a Giaour, a foul  demon.<br />The Giaour promises the voracious Vathek to grant him access to  the realm of Eblis and Soliman, where he will command all demonic forces  and be privy to enough knowledge to satisfy his curiosity.  To this end,  Vathek engages in wanton and reckless murders, seductions, and blasphemies  against the patient divinity 'Mahomet' and his benificent spirits.  <br />One  sees in &quot;Vathek&quot; a comparable theme with Montesquieu's  &quot;Persian Letters&quot;.  In both, we have a tyrant, (Montesquieu's  Usbek is a domestic tyrant) who abandons, and ultimately relinquishes all  capacity to control their dominions or themselves - All for the pursuit of  knowledge.  <br />Vathek can thus be seen as a critique of the Enlightenment  and of enlightened despotism, so much the rage in Europe in the late 18th  century.  Beckford seems to rail at knowledge being held above respect for  a common humanity.  Overall a very interesting novel in many respects and  aside from Beckford's unnecessary authorial interruptions, a solid read.	2000-06-27
US	51177889	R2IZBZ0V3D259H	0192834401	950133441	The Castle of Otranto: A Gothic Story	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The sins of the fathers...	Walpole's 1765 novel &quot;The Castle of Otranto&quot; is the story of Manfred, a power-crazed tyrant, seeking to secure the right of his lineage to the dominion of Otranto in Italy.  Trying to avoid the end of his line,  he attempts to marry his infirm and frail son, Conrad, to Isabella, the  daughter of a rival family.  The death of Conrad and subsequent  manifestation of various gigantic body parts and relics, to wit, a helmet,  leg, sword, and hand, seem to be harbingers of Manfred's prophesied demise.   <br />The three most prevalent themes in the novel are the threats posed by  male sexuality, misperception, and women.  Male sexuality plays itself out  in Manfred's frantic need for a specifically male heir, the indiscretions  of Jerome, a priest whose son Theodore harbors an unfulfilled lust for  Manfred's daughter Matilda.  <br />Misperceptions abound in &quot;The Castle  of Otranto&quot;.  There are constantly people doubting the truth of their  own eyes and ears.  Disguises and darkness prevent characters from knowing  who is friend and who is foe, often with fatal results.<br />Women are  consistently characterized as pseudo-angelic beings, whose virtues and  fidelity, both filial and connubial, are secondary to their ability to  produce male heirs.  Hippolita, Manfred's wife, emerges as the story's true  tragic figure, whose only crime as her family and dominions slip away, is  that she could not produce a healthy son.  <br />&quot;The Castle of  Otranto&quot; is not particularly well-written - dialogue is often  confusing to follow, and the characters are all fairly flat.  However, the  precedents for the gothic narrative style are wonderful to note.  One can  easily see the roots of stories from Poe's &quot;Fall of the House of  Usher&quot; to Wilde's &quot;Picture of Dorian Gray&quot; to Dickens'  &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot; in Walpole's work.  This is a classic text,  and one more people should read.	2000-06-26
US	51177889	R339P59J6M45CP	0140184961	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The Heart of Greene	&quot;The Heart of the Matter&quot; is the story of Major Scobie, a relatively high-ranking policeman struggling vainly for advancement in a small coastal African town.  He remains with a wife he doesn't really love  out of an extreme sense of duty and loyalty.  For those familiar with  Greene's &quot;The End of the Affair,&quot; it is almost as though Greene  took Henry Miles, the cuckold who remains married to Sarah because it is  comfortable, and made him the protagonist of a novel.<br />Scobie, a converted  Catholic, seems to take his religious convictions more seriously than his  wife, who is more concerned with appearances and the way the socialites in  town regard her.  In this small coastal town, the attention she pays to her  public standing quickly appears as it is, rudely farcical.  <br />Trying to  separate himself from his wife, Scobie strikes up a tenuous relationship  with Yusef, a suspected Syrian smuggler.  When she leaves for a vacation,  Scobie falls for Helen Rolt, a young widow.  Herein, the main action of the  novel begins, as Scobie finds himself forced to reconcile his dead love for  his wife with his affections for Helen, his career, and his relationship to  Yusef, all within the context of his Catholic faith.  A truly amazing work.   I am convinced that Graham Greene simply did not know how to write a bad  novel.	2000-06-16
US	51177889	R2E4NT7JGRAIH7	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Innocence and Experience	Greene's &quot;The Quiet American&quot; describes the brief, but astoundingly full relationship between Thomas Fowler, a British war correspondent-slash-expatriate, and Arden Pyle, an innocent and naive  American desk soldier in 1950's Vietnam.  The novel tells of how Pyle tries  to usurp the affections of Phuong, a local woman from a tired, but  comfortable relationship with Fowler.  <br />Simultaneously, Pyle is engaged  in secretive dealings with a local thug in an attempt to drive French and  Vietminh forces out of power - in an effort to establish a puppet  government friendly to American interests.  <br />Graham Greene shows why he  is one of the single greatest authors of the 20th century.  His  understanding of cultures and grasp of the current of his contemporary  geopolitics is astounding from one novel to the next.  In this light,  &quot;The Quiet American&quot; is an interesting fictional look at Vietnam  in the years preceding the Vietnam Conflict.  <br />The book is yet another of  Greene's profound first-person confessionals in the manner of &quot;The End  of the Affair&quot; and is well worth a read.	2000-06-15
US	51177889	R2LJ9DGZ4RA5DW	0374505845	987266683	Wise Blood: A Novel	Books	4	27	28	N	N	An American Genius' Mystical First Effort	Hazel Motes, protagonist of &quot;Wise Blood,&quot; is an accidental prophet.  Though the novel precedes the much better &quot;The Violent Bear It Away,&quot; it can be read as a sort of sequel to that novel - what  might have happened to young Tarwater if we were allowed to see his  adventures in the city.<br />Motes goes around the city in the evenings,  preaching the Church Without Christ, a church in which the individual is  free from the 'bleeding stinking mad shadow of Jesus' - freed from  tradition, from dogma, from traditional notions of salvation.  Motes  preaches the coming of a new Jesus - a contemporary that modern (or  post-modern) people can relate to.  <br />In his quest, Motes is pursued by  two individuals, Sabbath Hawks, the daughter of a blind false prophet, and  Enoch Emery, a wannabe disciple.  Emery wants very badly to find that new  Jesus and receive a revelation from him.  <br />Full of strange and  compelling, if somewhat distant characters, including a small mummy and a  gorilla suit, &quot;Wise Blood&quot; does not have the plot flow of  &quot;The Violent Bear It Away,&quot; and it is a little more haphazard,  but it is a wonderful first glance into Flannery O'Connor's genius  fictional mind, possessed with finding Christ in existentialism with or  without Kierkegaard.	2000-06-15
US	51177889	R9KDP5WPYCSXB	0140441654	302329004	Utopia (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Foundational Text of Western Thought	Upon his return from Utopia, a colony in the Americas, Raphael Nonsenso describes in detail the culture of the Utopian people to More and a friend.  He lays out structures of government, labour, economy, religions, and  practices of crime and punishment.  In a place like Utopia, which because  of More's book we now have instant associations of equality, peace, and so  on, it is odd to note that slavery and capital punishment are seen as  necessary institutions in Utopia.<br />From Nonsenso's description, Utopia  appears a self-important, isolationist society, but Nonsenso is only too  willing to overlook its negative aspects in light of its positives.  His  outlines almost sound anachronistically like the measured script of a tour  guide or a documentary film.<br />The question is - if Utopia is so great a  place, why not serve as Utopia's ambassador to Europe?  Can we really buy  his explanation that he returned to Europe simply to spread the news of  Utopian success?  If he is convinced that European cultures are immutable,  why bother telling anyone?  No society is born complete - even Utopia had  to develop - if they can do it, why is Nonsenso so convinced that Europe's  nations cannot attain that level of 'perfection'?<br />More's classic text  speaks to us clearly in the present day, as familiar as we are with stories  of Utopias gone awry, the most notable being Orwell's &quot;1984&quot; and  &quot;Animal Farm&quot; - Absolutely a foundational text.	2000-06-15
US	51177889	R1T9SJHBTUYXPN	0140445471	392013933	The Confidence-Man: His Masquerade (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Melville's Enigmatic American Testament.	With &quot;The Confidence-Man,&quot; Melville offered a final novelistic expression of his hopes, doubts, and frustrations about the American nation  on the verge of Civil War in the late 1850's.  <br />Many critics and  reviewers take a negative point of view on this novel, saying that the  narrative instability and episodic nature of the novel represents  Melville's anger with the increasingly poor reception of his later novels,  including the brilliant &quot;Moby-Dick&quot;.  <br />Over the course of the  novel's first half, we are presented with a string of characters who spout  the virtues of charity and trust, all supposedly different manifestations  of one Confidence-Man.  The confidence-man engages passengers of the  riverboat Fidele from St. Louis to New Orleans in philosophical, literary,  personal, and business-related conversations.  This is the heart of the  novel, even in the second half, where only one confidence-man appears.  As  in Cervantes' &quot;Don Quixote,&quot; you are able to tease out more about  the ambiguous purposes of the novel through speeches rather than actions.   <br />At points amusing, horrifying, and sad, &quot;The Confidence-Man&quot;  is difficult, if not impossible to categorize in any simple fashion.  An  extremely worthwhile read, especially if you read it as a prophetic work of  the American Civil War and try to figure out for yourself if Melville  thought things would turn out alright, or if the US was due for an  apocalyptic judgment.	2000-06-07
US	51177889	RTGRW0P20HPW6	0140436537	781432721	The Tale of Old Mortality (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	An Outstanding Work of Historical Fiction	Scott's &quot;Old Mortality&quot; is set amidst political and religious turmoil in late 17th century Scotland.  Covenanters, in that time, a sect of Presbyterians, engaged government forces of both Scotland and Britain in  an effort to secure their religious freedoms.  In the middle of this action  is Henry Morton, a moderate youth, drawn out of his secure life by a chance  encounter, and into a ten-year Odyssey of strife and conflict.  Scott's  portrayal of extremist religious leaders is balanced by his equally fierce  portrayal of the leaders of the government's attempt to quell the  uprisings.  Out of this emerges Scott's real triumphs of characterization -  Cuddie Headrigg, Bessie Maclure, and Jenny Denison, minor characters whose  very humanity and seeming irrelevance in the cosmic scheme that Scott sets  up make their actions more impressive in the context of the novel.  This  new Penguin edition is complemented by a wonderfully insightful  introduction by Douglas Mack.  If you are unfamiliar with Scott's work,  this novel is an excellent introduction to one of the world's great  authors.	2000-04-17
US	51177889	R2KCVH9XYX920N	0140432566	144909662	Caleb Williams	Books	5	26	26	N	N	An adventure in sheer psychological terror.	Having never myself been the victim of a wrongful criminal accusation, imprisonment, or torture, I was ill-prepared for the experience of reading &quot;Caleb Williams&quot;. I once thought that Orwell's &quot;1984&quot; and &quot;Animal Farm,&quot; or the fiction works of Camus, Kafka, or Sartre were more than adequate to address the problem of total alienation and isolation in the very midst of humanity. Even Richardson's &quot;Pamela&quot; carries its heroine through half the novel in a state of claustrophobic paranoia. In 1794, Godwin created a world and a mind no less frightening than the worst and most depraved of the 20th century. That we still toil through issues of basic human and legal rights entering the 21st century speaks to the complexity of these issues and casts a shadow of doubt over our ever finding a suitable solution.<br />In an effort to expose the hypocrisy of a legal system under the complete influence of the &quot;long purse&quot; and the lack of recourse of the common man to justice, Godwin has his hero Caleb suffer increasing terrors, imprisonment, and the threat of ceaseless surveillance at the hands of the ex-thief Gines. Like Richardson's Pamela, Caleb's suicidal fantasies enable him for a short while to claim control over his mind and his situation.<br />Unlike Pamela, Caleb fails to maintain this control, even after he forces the ruthless Falkland to admit to the murder of Tyrrel. In a scene reminsicent of ones in &quot;1984&quot; and Kafka's &quot;The Trial,&quot; Caleb relinquishes what little power he has been able to garner over his torturer. Falkland, a frail, physically powerless, demoniacal 'gentleman,' through a constant and pervasive presence in Caleb's own fragile mind has unwittingly reclaimed final power over the novel's helpless hero.<br />By internalizing the social hierarchy since childhood, Caleb is finally unable to bear the disgrace he brings upon Falkland. Ironically, while he is pursued across England and Wales as a thief, he claims innocence. Once he is exonerated of his crime, he is insistent on his guilt. &quot;Caleb Williams&quot; is an endlessly complex and captivating novel, frought with issues of power, levels of narrative, and takes issue with the flawed notion of human justice.a thief, he claims innocence. Once he is exonerated of his crime, he is insistent on his guilt. &quot;Caleb Williams&quot; is an endlessly complex and captivating novel, frought with issues of power, levels of narrative, and takes issue with the flawed notion of human justice.	1999-12-14
