US	51183270	R2QK2QPAWLNXO6	0451208552	621446208	Shop Till You Drop: A Dead-End Job Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A FUNTASTIQUE FEMALE FUGITIVE FLORIDA-STYLE	Having firmly transplanted her roots from Saint Louis to Florida, Elaine Viets has taken leave (hopefully only temporarily) of her sleuthing Saint Louis journalist Francesca Vierling series and introduced a new Florida based heroine, Helen Hawthorne.<br />Helen is on the lam in Fort Lauderdale, Florida from something that involved a cheating husband and a crowbar back in Saint Louis. Being a fugitive in Florida means abandoning successful executive position with six figure salary and all the benefits for a series of on your feet for eight hours dead-end jobs that provide a no questions asked cash (but barely minimum wage) salary. Currently this means Helen is serving as a sales associate behind the &quot;green door&quot; of Juliana's the ultra-chic clothing boutique for the hopelessly anorexic and surgically augmented young ladies of the Florida party circuit. This also means living at the less than exclusive Coronado Apartments which, while lacking the pink flamingos of Saint Louis, is abundantly filled with quirky and fun residents.<br />All is going adequately until Helen begins to suspect her manager is pushing designer drugs in addition to designer clothes and embezzling money from the store as well. Then murder enters the picture! And since the police consider her a suspect, Helen realizes that she's going to have the find the murderer herself. And then there's that new gymbot fire inspector living in her apartment complex.<br />Elaine Viets has a way with creating totally believable characters and putting them in situations that guarantee a good mystery and a lot of laughs. SHOP TILL YOU DROP is a brilliant start for a great new series, and Helen Hawthorne is a welcome addition to the world of fugitive fiction who should have a long run. That is, unless the powers that be in Saint Louis track her down in one of her dead-end jobs in Florida.  This one gave me a lot of enjoyment, and I highly recommend it!	2003-09-03
US	51183270	R1EVK4MYQG5LVO	0758203861	171681628	Daytime Drama	Books	3	10	11	N	N	AS THE WORLD SWIRLS AROUND THE PRODUCT PLACEMENT	Really, who can resist a sappy soap opera? Other than the classic primetime soapy series I never got caught up in television soaps. But I was weaned on my mother's daily dose of daytime drama on the radio - Ma Perkins, Our Gal Sunday and all the rest. So when DAYTIME DRAMA was published I knew it would end up on my reading list. I mean, who can resist a book that asks the question, &quot;Can Clay Beasley, a young handsome struggling actor, fight his way through thousands of young handsome struggling actors to move on from playing Intern #2 to find love, wealth, happiness and stardom on Sunset Cove daytime TV's hottest drama?&quot;  Well you know he will, eventually, but not before the story is filled with enough murder, intrigue and skullduggery to keep you turning the pages at a brisk pace.<br />OK, so the characters seem  a tad superficial. But their newly cropped hair artificially kissed by the sun always swishes around the most perfect faces modern surgery can produce as they apply Kiehl's Lip Balm #1 to their perfectly pouty lips under their straight Roman noses. And under their pristinely white Calvin Klein wife beaters and tight, weathered Polo Jeans you know you'll always find perfect Gold Gym sculpted abs. There are no pimples for the folks who people Daytime Drama. Mainly, because the pimple space is needed for all of the dropped brand names and (hopefully) product placements. (What an ingenious way to subsidize publishing costs by selling space in a book to have your product's name casually dropped into the plot. They do it all the time in the movies.)<br />The author, a former soap actor and retailing executive, probably knows what he's talking about, but I found the story is a bit predictable and I knew who the murderer is almost from the start, but that's what makes soaps so enjoyable isn't it?. You try to warn the romantic ingenues about what's going to happen  to them, but they never listen to you. DAYTIME DRAMA is a fun read for a lazy afternoon when you can't watch your soaps.	2003-08-20
US	51183270	R1D698DB4PQCXP	0758204051	647633295	Last Summer	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A BRILLIANT DEBUT NOVEL!	Up until now, Michael Thomas Ford has been recognized as been one of the best gay humorists/commentators for his highly praised collections of essays like THAT'S MR. FAGGOT TO YOU and ALEC BALDWIN DOESN'T LOVE ME. Now he has produced his first novel, and it is one of the best reads of last, this and probably next summer.<br />The setting is the summer season in P-Town and Ford has populated it with a most diverse, interesting and enjoyable cast of characters - gay, lesbian, transgender and straight - singles, sluts, engaged, married, separated or abandoned - and a 17-year old virgin from Hannibal. But mainly it's about Josh Felling a free-lance copywriter from Boston who is trying to get over a six-year relationship shattered by a cheating love and the \\"families\\" he discovers around him.<br />The author is very adept at working with a large and varied cast and entwining their many different tales into a common theme that all works out in the end.  Also because of his gift for writing totally believable dialogue, you'll probably go on reading the book just another chapter or two after you've planned to stop.<br />Characters, plot and dialogue - you just can't top what you'll find in LAST SUMMER. And until Ford's next novel, I guess I'll just have to start with his essay collections. Don't miss this one, I'm giving it my rare *****+ rating and making it Our Bookshelf's Book Of the Month.	2003-08-19
US	51183270	R374V3Q57XV6UV	0758202121	745205687	Bourbon Street Blues	Books	5	4	11	N	Y	THE BEST GAY MYSTERY I'VE READ THIS YEAR!	Welcome the return of author Greg Herren with a thrilling new mystery novel, a superb new fictional hero, and what appears to be the first of an exciting and somewhat lighter new series. Last year, he introduced us to Chanse MacLeod in MURDER IN THE RUE DAUPHINE, which was one of last year's best gay works of fiction. (And if you haven't read it yet, buy it along with this new book.) And this year, he tops it with M. (Scotty) Bradley in BOURBON STREET BLUES.<br />Scotty is a buff, boyish personal trainer and part-time exotic bar dancer with a Day-Glo thong stuffed with wet and sweaty currency. ...He's also the personification of gay New Orleans - while he might be a [tramp], but he's not a [tramp]. I fell in love with him immediately - long before he finished his introductory prologue. You should also know that he has a most unusual and loving extended family, and he's somewhat physic. His tarot cards play an important part in the plotting of the action.<br />As to the plot itself, that's really something that you'll enjoy more by discovering it for yourself. Let's just say it combines the gay delight of Southern Decadence weekend with murder, sinister plots, political intrigue, hot-bod boys, mysterious daddies with scars, skinheads, religious fanatics, FBI agents and a few sexual assignations. You know - all the things that make the Big Easy all that it can be. <br />Unfortunately,  I also have a minor quibble about the book. The first edition of this book contains an annoying editing or proofing error in the background story of Jeremy. When we first meet him on page 35 we learn that he had mysteriously left New Orleans a year earlier without canceling his scheduled training session with Scotty, and now on reappearing he had shaved his head and gotten an arm band tattoo during his absence. However, when we see him the next day on page 130, we're told that \\"his hair hadn't been combed and that it looked as if he'd been running his fingers through it a bit to much.\\"And the details on disappearance have be change, too. Now I have always been my own worst proofreader, but surely author or his editosr should have noticed the contradictions in the story. Sure, it's a personal quibble, but it detracts from an otherwise well crafted work. Hopefully, it will be corrected in the many reprints this book deserves.<br />The error and my quibble really don't merit any deduction of points from my ***** rating or from my recommendation of this book. It was a pleasure to read this book (almost nonstop.) And I repeat what I said in my review of his first book; Greg Herren is an extremely talented and promising author, and I look forward to his next book - soon hopefully?	2003-04-25
US	51183270	R14IIO1KDFGENF	0399149244	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Almost Laugh Out Loud South Florida Caper	Welcome Dave Barry's second and most enjoyable novel. This time around, he moves closer into Carl Hiaasen's domain of South Florida social commentary. The book opens with the approach of (soon to be) Hurricane Hector which is destined to cross paths with The Extravaganza Of The Seas (a three-mile limit gambling cruise ship) and the various characters fated to be on board her at the time. <br />Included in this mismatched character conglomeration are Fay (a single mom and cocktail waitress), Wally (member of the ship's semi-untalented band Johnny and the Contusions), Arnie and Phil (a couple of gambling addicts from a senior citizens home) and tons of assorted hulks, brutes, cons and other sordid, devious or just plain kooky characters. With a group like this, anything can and does happen. Especially once the storm starts mixing things up.<br />Though I believe I enjoy his first novel BIG TROUBLE a bit more, Barry is in pretty good form with TRICKY BUSINESS and he provides a plot and characters that will take you from mildly to wildly funny. I enjoyed it, and if you enjoy a good laugh with a good book you will, too.  It earned my **** rating.	2003-04-18
US	51183270	R2A76JHE4OU950	0441010091	317086570	Cold Streets (Vampire Files, No. 9)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A First Rate Thriller With Wit And A Bit Of Bite!	Jack Fleming is back in this the ninth book in Pat Elrod's Vampire Files series. In case you haven't met Jack yet, he's a former newspaper reporter who now owns and runs a swank late 1930's nightclub (Lady Crymsyn) in Chicago. Oh, and he's also a vampire - but one to the good guys as opposed to a bloodsucker. (And though each book in the series can stand alone, if you really want to discover the where, why, how and when of the whole story, you'll have to go back and read the previous eight books. You'll enjoy them, too!)<br />When not acting as gracious host at Lady Crymsyn, Jack spends his evenings work with private agent (detective) Charles Escott and mixing it up with various Chicago mob bosses both friendly and un. This book opens with the solving of a kidnapping masterminded by character destined to become Jack's nemesis. Then it mixes in a pending mob war that could eliminate not just some of Jack's friends, but Jack himself.<br />Elrod is great with seeding her plot with twists, turns and all out action. And in addition to bringing Jack back to life, she also brings reality back to Chicago and the 1930's. Jack might be a vampire, but you're sure to love him by the time you finish this book. I'm addicted to the series, and I can hardly wait for each new book's arrival. (And I would love to get hold of the one book I missed that is currently out of print.) As always I give COLD STREETS my ***** rating, and I can't wait for her next one.	2003-04-18
US	51183270	RN0B2QQ8HG4V0	0743452593	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	HAPPY HARRY HARPER HILARIOUS HERO!	It all started one morning when Happy Harry Harper woke up with a hangover to discover two bugs making whoopee on his bedroom wall in the Dominican Republic. Naturally, he pulled out his gun and shot them, and in doing so also put into play a very funny and enjoyable thriller. It seems like the bullet intended for the cockroaches went through the wall and also killed Campèon, his landlady's \\"lover\\".<br />Harry becomes a hilarious man on the run, and in order to get out of the country and back to the U. S. agrees to pilot a boat with a body back to Florida. Along his journey, he collides with Jane Ellen Ashley, an oyster-schucker who is also on the run. Together they manage to complicate the plot with skullduggery, political corruption and all the other things that make novels about South Florida such fun.<br />OYSTER BLUES is the author's debut novel, and it's a great start. I look forward to his next one. He has a great way with creating enjoyable characters and then providing them with dialogue that always rings true. If you enjoy Hiaasen, Leonard or Barry you should really enjoy this one, too. It earn my ***** stars!	2003-04-18
US	51183270	RMIU4WI5B7XNC	0743476123	168883025	Every Nine Seconds (Queer as Folk)	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	BUT WITHOUT THE FLASH AND DASH OF TV	This book, being touted as the novelized prequel to the popular Showtime television series, is supposed to tell the story of Michael Novotny and Brian Kinney as they approach their high-school graduation. I should have known what to expect when I opened the oversized paperback book to discover that is was printed in an equally oversized type face that reminded me of a ... Primer. <br />Don't be mislead, this book is in no way a sexual coming of age tale of two eighteen-year olds. The sexual characterizations of the two main characters are identical to that of the thirty-something characters portrayed in the television series. ...<br />I suppose that it is really asking too much of a \\"media tie-in\\" to actually provide the background reasons on why Brian is a satyr or why Michael wonders around following him moon-eyed and longing for him to become his comic book hero in reality. <br />The only other characters from the television series to appear in the book are Michael's mother Debbie and his Uncle Vic, though a very young Justin does show up for a cameo put down of Brian. <br />The book really fails to capture the flash and dash of the television series, and if you were a true fan of it I doubt if you will enjoy this fictionalization of it.  I did however learn one thing from the book that I didn't know from the television series. And that was the real story about Michael's father. I give this book *** for effort though I did skim some of the sex scenes.	2003-04-18
US	51183270	R1OLVVWQIHRUL4	0345445899	287961022	Vertical Burn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A NONSTOP THRILLER ABOUT FIRES, HEROES, AND CONSPIRACY	In a departure from his two ongoing series (Thomas Black - Seattle detective and Mac Fontana - rural Washington fire-chief), Earl Emerson has come up with a top-notch mystery thriller. (Though some aspects of the fires and characters did borrow from similar ideas originally in the Fontana books.)<br />Again the scene of the action is set in Seattle. A fire breaks out in a warehouse and musicians are supposedly trapped inside. For some reason most of the fire companies are answering false alarms and nuisance calls, so the fire fighters are seriously short-handed. The fire gets out of hand while Jack Finney and his partner are still searching for the victims. A wall falls on the partner and the lack of air and the heat force Finney from the building. Outside of the room where the partner is trapped, Finney runs into the chief and another firefighter. He tells them where his partner is before he is forced from the building. But the partner is never discovered until after the building has burnt to the ground.<br />Six months later, Finney is still haunted by the fire especially since everyone blames him for leaving his partner to die. He has scoured the ruins of the warehouse repeatedly and studied all aspects of the official details on the fire. His suspicions grow that the fire was not an accident ... and fears that something worse is yet to come.<br />Don't read this book before bed, because you'll never get to sleep! I couldn't put it down. Emerson's detailing of the fires and the heroes who risk their lives fighting them is superb. He knows the territory first hand and his writing puts you on the fire trucks and in the heart of the inferno!  I liked his series books, but VERTICAL BURN is in a class by itself. It earned my *****+ rating, and I recommend it to all of you.	2003-04-18
US	51183270	R7FYPO060KLMJ	0451203224	118397707	The Crepes of Wrath: A Pennsylvania Dutch Mystery with Recipes (Pennsylvania Dutch Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	ANOTHER PUNNY PENN-DUTCH TREAT	Its back to Amish country and Magdalena Yoder's PennDutch Inn. This is the ninth book in Myers' series, and while I still enjoy reading the books I do wish Magdalena would come up with a few new colloquial expressions for her repertory. Right now the books are starting to seem one expressions shy of originality. But I still enjoy reading them.<br />Magdalena has been very successful in turning her family farmhouse into a fashionable fantasy for the rich and famous who enjoy paying outrageous amounts to experience the genuine Amish lifestyle (or Magdalena's version of it) for themselves. Anyway, Magdalena is a magnet for murder, and this time around the victim is Lizzie Mast, the world's worst cook. It seems like someone has done her in with a drug overdose, which is hardly the Amish thing to do. <br /> Magdalena is called in to bumble her way through the facts and resolve the murder. Along the way she has to put up with rambunctious Amish teens, drug dealers and the wacky residents of her inn.<br />The recipes in this book are really superficial to the plot since they really don't relate to the action of it anyway, and they didn't inspire me to give any of them a try. (They're also all from the same cookbook.) The book was a pleasant read, and like the other books in the series it gets my **** rating.	2003-04-18
US	51183270	R109NJQ43MSYPH	0312971788	933929766	The Murder at the Murder at the Mimosa Inn (Claire Malloy Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	MURDER ISN'T A GAME!	Taking a break from the daily bookstore grind, Claire decides to get away from it all and drafts her daughter Caron to accompany her on a mystery murder weekend at the Mimosa Inn. Her boyfriend Peter Rosen (an investigator with the Farberville police department) scoffs at the whole idea of solving a pretend murder. This only makes Claire more determined to take part in the mystery murder weekend and become the person who solves the murder. <br />To complicate matters, Lt. Rosen shows up at the Inn shortly after Claire, who is positive he is only there to show her up. Clues are dispersed to the mystery participants up until the point when the murder victim turns up murdered for real.<br />With a situation like this, it's a given that Claire will try to out-sleuth Peter, and only get herself in harm's way. And with Joan Hess's comic flair and skillful plotting it turns into a pretty interesting read.  It's the kind of book you want to read when you just want to get away from it all for  a bit. Actually I enjoyed the book so much; I grabbed her A Diet To Die For from my bookshelf as my next book to read. (Also reviewed today on Amazon.)	2003-04-01
US	51183270	R1HT6NJZ786GNV	0312981376	228967853	A Diet to Die for (Claire Malloy Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	FORGET THE AEROBICS AND PASS THE CHOCOLATE!	This fun mystery opens with Caron, Claire Malloy's teenaged terror, being selected Miss Thunder Thighs by the Farberville Highschool sophomore football team Naturally,  she immediately decides that it is time for her and her best friend Inez to go on a crash diet. So, being  Caron and Inez, the duo proceeds to run the gauntlet of every known bizarre fad diet know to man, woman and kook.  And they all manage to end up with a pizza chaser.<br />While the dieting is running its course, Claire's downstairs neighbor volunteers her to become a weight loss mentor to Maribeth, the somewhat overweigh heiress of the Thurber-Farber fortune. This is all very well and good, except Claire just happens to be dedicated to salvation through chocolate and also to avoiding aerobic exercise at all costs.<br />Before long, Claire is in the middle of some very strange and highly humorous goings on including murder. Joan Hess is at her best spearing fitness centers, fad diets and instant weight loss elixirs. You know from the beginning how everything will turn out in the end,  (with Claire solving the mystery despite her boy friend, Peter Rosen) but all the twists and turns and kooky characters are half the fun of a Hess mystery. Without a doubt she is one of the best writers of comic mystery fiction today!	2003-04-01
US	51183270	R2O4QL8T8PZEV5	0312309740	104918995	Tongue Tied: A Donald Strachey Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	SHOCK JOCKS, QUEER EXTREMISTS AND LLAMAS, OH MY!	I would have enjoyed this book more it the author had followed his previous schedule of delivering a new Don Strachey adventure every two years. (Except for that six-year lapse in the series between 1986 and 1992 - ICE BLUES and THIRD MAN OUT.)  The last book in the series, Strachey's Folly was released in 1998, and the current book is set in the summer of 2000. Unfortunately, it is filled with political commentary regarding Clinton, Janet Reno, Guiliani, and the Gore/Bush presidential campaign that might have been topical had the book been published in 2001. Now, rather than setting or enhancing the scene or mood of the action, they simply date the story more than the actual three years that have past. <br />Other than that, the plot is standard Strachey fare. Don is hired to investigate a series of crude pranks attributed to a gay radical group (that hasn't existed for 20-years) against NY shock jock, J-Bird, who broadcasts from a world of politically incorrect banter. Then the pranks are upgraded and the kidnapping starts. Working with (and sometimes not) a NYC gay cop, a gay Amish eggplant farmer and his own lover Tim in Albany, Strachey travels from Manhattan, to the Berkshires, to Brooklyn to Long Island to resolve the case. (And all without a cellphone - how old is Strachey if he can reminisce about the good old days of street corner phonebooths with folding doors where you could call for just a nickel?)<br /> It's really hard to compare this book with the earlier books in the series since it has been five years since the last book was released. It was an enjoyable read, but for some reason it felt slightly \\"off\\" to me - like something was missing. Maybe, Strachey, the author and I are just getting older.  I will give it my **** rating though, because it's nice to visit old friends.	2003-03-17
US	51183270	R22C38Z58SH1SQ	0759645310	347240418	Sparkle: The Queerest Book You'll Ever Love	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	AND IT REALLY IS THE QUEEREST BOOK YOU�LL EVER LOVE!	This book has all the potential for becoming the next gay cult classic! Because if you read it, you're sure to love it and tell at least a half dozen friends to get their hands on it, too. And that's how cult classics are born - by word of mouth. Any way, the book doesn't have a very complicated plot. An unknown assailant has shot Sparkle and as Secret sits by his comatose side in the hospital he recounts their gay adventures and exploits in San Francisco. (Oh, I forgot to introduce Sparkle and Secret. They're Bruce and William, two 20-something boys living and loving in the last decade of the twentieth century. And they just happen to be the most entertaining fictional fun couple since Mame Dennis first met her nephew Patrick.) <br />One of the main reasons I enjoyed the book was because I could look at it from the perspective of someone from the previous generation. I visited San Francisco quite often during the seventies - usually on business but a number of times just for the fun of it. Those were the days when a gay icon like Peter Berlin still strutted down the streets in striking contrast to the multitude of Village People clones. When late night pleasure dens like the Slot, Trough and Bulldog were over populated. And when I repeatedly debated the pros and cons of getting my own tattoo and piercing. (OK, so I never did.) The last time I visited SF was on Halloween in 1980, which provided a truly memorable last impression. My San Francisco was wild, wacky, and total fun. And you know what, Sparkle's and Secret's hasn't changed that much. Gee, they would probably consider me to be their gay uncle. (Or heavens forbid auntie!)<br />Rob Rosen is a fun writer, and he has created a pair of totally unforgetable characters (not to forget the great backup cast) and set them down in some really believable though totally outrageous situations. This book should be on the must read list of every gay and open-minded straight (don't worry, you won't turn gay by just readingit) reader who's looking for something fun to read. Besides, it's more fun than watching Will and Jack or QAF.  This book really earned my [5 star] rating.	2003-03-16
US	51183270	RM7RJXQPPB7UW	1555837506	50674396	Fluffers Inc.: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	HELP WANTED KNEE-PADS REQUIRED	In this, his first novel, Hank Edwards has produced a somewhat \\"tongue (?)-in-cheek\\" look at the lives and loves of the mythical entity of porn film lore and legend - THE FLUFFER. The story opens with Charlie (looking as if he had just stepped off the cover of Farmer's Weekly) walking into the office of the Hollywood specialty agency run by Kinitia Jones, Fluffers, Inc. He has just arrived in L. A. and he is looking for a job. Kinitia's company services the needs of the film industry (both gay and straight) by getting the actors ready for the lights, camera and action of XXX movie making. Naturally, Charlie gets the job.<br />Knowing that he is fully qualified for his new job (\\"No complaints so far!\\"); Charlie jumps into the action with spirit and gusto. Unfortunately, he's a bit of a lovable klutz, and he blows his first assignment by going down (all the way) on Rock Harding, the porn star lover of porn's nastiest director (and Kinitia's main competition), Cedric Wilmington.<br />Anyway, the plot is a virtual shopping list of every conceivable variation of male/male sexual bonding cast with every possible body and personality type and costumed for every known fetish. (I wonder if the publisher supplies a check list to their authors?) Charlie's expertise grows along with his legend of being the ultimate porn klutz. But he is known and loved by all and even earns a nomination for a porn industry award. But watch out because there is skullduggery and dirty deeds lurking right behind all the sex. <br />I doubt if anyone would read this book with one hand, but it was a bit of fun. And I could hear the author snickering if not laughing as he typed the manuscript. He even managed to set us up for a sequel. For its genre, I'll give FLUFFERS, INC. my **** rating. And that's  without  counting the pouty-lipped cover boy.	2003-03-09
US	51183270	RUJPRQ5XC93X6	031230501X	464543420	Desert Winter: A Claire Gray Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	It's DESERT WINTER and time for murder in Palm Springs!	Reading a Michael Craft mystery is like visiting old friends. You know and appreciate the characters, you usually know what to expect, but you still often receive a few surprises. <br />Desert Winter is the second in the Claire Gray mystery series, and in it Craft has begun the process of polishing and refining his cast of characters. Secondary characters like Claire's neighbor Grant have been given more personality, and as a result have become more natural and believable. Only best friend Kiki remains to be fully brought to life. <br />In addition, the new characters created for this specific adventure are, to say the least, quite unique. First there's Stewart Chaffee, an eccentric gay art collector and decorator who you know is going to become the prime victim and not just because he's addicted to Pink Fluff. Rounding out the Chaffee household, there's Pea, his height-challenged long-time major domo, and Bonnie Bahr, his nurse and care-giver who is just as adept with giving him a return insult as she is to giving him care.<br />Oh, and in case you missed DESERT AUTUMN the first book in the series, Claire Gray is a renowned, fifty-something Broadway director who has been enticed by wealthy businessman, D. Glenn Yeats to move across the country to Palm Springs and head the theater department in his new Desert Arts College. As the scene opens, she is in the final stages of opening the initial production of the Desert Arts Theater. By the way, she also has a much younger hunk protégé in the person of Tanner Griffin, fledgling actor. (Amo, amas, amat.)<br />Anyway, the DESERT WINTER plot is much like a play with new clues and red herrings being revealed with each scene change. And in a grand theatrical manner murderer is revealed in the final scene with all the characters (and suspects) in attendance. <br />As usual I really enjoyed the book, however I have two nits to pick with the plot. First, there's the issue of Claire and Glenn buying into a clue Glenn discoversthat does not fit into the time line of the plot. Claire is swift enough to have picked up on the time discrepancy right away.  The other is Kane, Grant's boyfriend, describing a mysterious professor as just an older gentleman. Okay, Kane is very young and everyone he meets is older, but how could he miss a very distinctive feature of the professor which other characters had noted throughout the book.<br />Mark Manning, the publisher/journalist hero of Craft's other successful series makes a cameo appearance in this story since his nephew Thad has become a student in the theater school. I wonder how long it will be before Mark buys the Desert Sun, Palm Springs' daily newspaper, and divides his time between Wisconsin and Palm Springs like author Craft. <br />DESERT WINTER is a real page-turner, and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a refreshing and enjoyable reading experience. It really earned my ***** rating.	2003-03-04
US	51183270	RIMXUFRE6ARBQ	0758201931	51196213	The Night We Met	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Would a gay version of The Sopranos be The Falsettos?	Andrew (Drew, not Andy) Westlake (by his own opinion) is the ultimate romantic (or in our opinion the ultimate gay loser.) Fifteen years ago he left Allentown, PA to move to New York City, to discover the gay life, his literary voice, and his true love.  Instead he has found a nine to five job as a junior book editor, written to books that have been remaindered, and lost his boyfriend to a bleached blond window dresser. How low can you go?<br />Get ready folks, because Drew hasn't bottomed out yet. He finally meets \\"Mr. Right\\" in the guise of Frank DiBenedetto who just happens to be the \\"straight\\" heir to one of New York's most prominent (notorious) families. Naturally you would expect a few complications to result from this situation. At every page turn Drew runs into yet another complication to his search for real happiness. <br />The book is a fun, totally enjoyable read. I partucularly enjoyed the infighting of rival authors on a book tour. Unfortunately though, it is not the \\"frantic, nonstop, madcap romp through a wild romance no reader will be able to refuse\\" that the book jacket promised. Do the people who write these blurbs for Kensington ever read the book before they write the blurb? I don't think so!<br />While the majority of the characters are well developed, Frank was a somewhat one-dimensional dropout from The Sopranos or Corky Romano. (If I had been Drew, I would have dumped him for the cute FBI agent who was a better-developed and more likable character.)  <br />This book was author Byrnes' debut novel and I really enjoyed his writing style. I've added him to my list of writers to watch and encourage you to give him a try.	2003-03-03
US	51183270	RFAUA5F8HL5UE	0758200390	354102088	Going Down For The Count	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	DATING ROYALITY CAN BE MURDER AND FUN, TOO!	Welcome the return of Robert, everyones gay (but somewhat schlumppy and Midwestern) best friend and totally underpaid copywriter (gads, it sounds like Im describing myself) in David Stukas follow up to his 2001 SOMEONE KILLED HIS BOYFRIEND comic mystery. I had a couple of reservations in regard to that book, in that I felt that the characters of Michael, a fabulously wealthy and totally obnoxious megaslut and Monette, your typical stereotypical lesbian were somewhat one dimensional. In the latest book Stukas has grown more comfortable with has characters and as a result theyve become more defined with the early rough edges now polished. Actually, I am now convinced that Michael is intended to be totally one dimensional, which makes him like people we have all known and still loved in spite of it all. <br />In this book its Roberts turn to find true love in the person of Count Siegfried von Schmidt, which naturally sends the rejected and dejected Michael into outrageous fits of jealously inspired one-upmanship. But as they say love is blind, and as the count whisks Robert off in his Lear jet, we (along with Michael and Monette) know that something is rotten in Denmark which is strange since the count has taken Robert to his castle in Germany. Anyway, the plot twists and thickens in a Marxian fun sort of way, and we all know whats going to happen long before it does, or before Robert finally realizes it. It isnt often that you want to shout at a character in a book warning him not to open that door or some such thing. But, look what audience participation did for The Rocky Horror Movie!<br />Rest assured that Michael [surpasses] his previous performances, and Robert and Monettes practical jokes reach new slapstick lows. Hey, what can I say?  If you were looking for great literature, youd never pick up this book with its typical Kensington Kartoon Kover. But since we all need something to laugh about these days, you wont go wrong with this book. (And the next one, since Sutkas is hard at work on his followup.)	2003-03-03
US	51183270	R3B4VBFRKE03DO	0758201419	599435930	The Winter Of Our Discotheque	Books	5	3	4	N	N	As The Gay World Turns Through The Dawn And Death Of Disco!	There's something about a soap opera that just hooks you. And this book uses all the tricks of the genre...from characters (naïve, innocent, loving, plotting, conniving, deceitful and dastardly) to plot twists (love found, love rejected, love discovered, love abandoned and love triumphant)...to keep you flipping through its near four hundred pages without pause as it asks and answers the question - can a surfer stud/grease-monkey from the wrong side of a south Florida island find happiness in a world of the rich and beautiful gays.<br />Our surfer stud/grease-monkey is 17-year old Anthony Alexamenos who toils in his drunken father's service station pumping gas and finding a new meaning to the word \\"service\\" as he discovers his first gay love which is soon lost. With pure naiveté, Tony is plucked from the station, cleaned up and awarded a scholarship to a drama school with the behind-the-scene string pulling of wealthy Dallas Eden, who is addicted to beautiful boys. Unfortunately, Tony falls for a very closeted professor and is whisked off to New York City, where he ends up stripping as a cast member in a new Broadway musical called Hair.<br />From there the book takes us through all the twists and turns in ten years of the life and loves of our hero. Be prepared to meet some unusual and very interesting characters along the way. In true soap opera fashion, you'll love some and hate others. And in case you missed it first hand, you also are able to discover the wild and wanton world of New York City that existed in the period between Stonewall and onset of AIDS. <br />Personally, I enjoyed the book because Tony's life in New York coincided with a time period when I regularly visited New York on business. Back then, I had the opportunity to visit all of the historically famous and infamous gay points of interest  (including Phillip Rose dancing on the bar of the Anvil in his full Native American regalia long before he became the first member of the Village People).As I followed Tony's adventures, it was like revisiting a period of my past.   <BR> <BR>So if you're looking for a book to help you pass a long winter's night, you might want to give this one a try.	2003-03-03
US	51183270	R1H1DX8OXV6P8Y	0802733654	627894279	Burning Down the House: A Nick Hoffman Novel (Nick Hoffman Mysteries)	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	Sorry, Nick, you flunked out this time!	I would like to add one more expression to the myriad of multilingual musings that salt and pepper this book in the guise of intellectual inspiration - and that is caveat emptor! Unfortunately, the reader won't be able to say they weren't warned - actually, twice warned. First, on the book cover where the former \\"A Nick Hoffman Mystery\\" subtitle has been replaced by a new \\"A Nick Hoffman Novel\\" subtitle. Then, on page 24 when Nick's lover Stefan, a novelist himself, tells us how he would write a mystery. \\"Why not create tension differently and have the murder come late - or maybe not at all - play expectation, threat or menace. The threat of a crime.\\"  That's exactly what Raphael does with this book. And after building up the expectation of something going to \\"happen\\" he just leaves us with the expectation of something bigger and more menacing yet to come in the next book of the series.<br />Don't get me wrong, I have enjoyed the author's writing skills in the first four books in this series. He has used wit and satire to spear the pompous world of academe. Unfortunately, in this book, SUM (State University of Michigan) and its inhabitants have become a total lampoon of some Animal House. Things are pushed to the point of straining a person's credulity - Whiteness Studies and neo-Nazi administrative staff.<br />Add to that the fact that all the female characters from the new provost Merry Glinka to Juno Dromgoole are just caricatures drawn in a very unflattering and unfavorable manner. Only the elderly and infirm are spared the author's misogyny. Which only makes it stranger when Nick, who has spent a lifetime (and 15 years with Stefan) with a totally male sexual orientation, suddenly becomes obsessed with what it would be like to have sex with Juno Dromgoole. I thought this was just an early mid-life crisis, until he developed and equally strange obsession to buy a gun. Good grief, he's turning into another one of the SUMatics!<br />Talk about topsy-turvy! The characters are just wandering around searching not for the plot, but for some reason why they are there in the first place. I realize that as a \\"novel\\" this book is entitled to have an ambiguous ending. But, since the author is a student of the mystery genre he should realize that it's not nice to leave your readers hanging at the close of a 290-page book. Nick Hoffman worked better in the mystery genre. My rating - a full ***** for the author's way with words, but only  ** for the book as a whole. Sorry, Nick, even grading on a curve couldn't get you a higher score. <br />As a final comment, what's with the book jacket illustration featuring the face from a Third Reich sculpture? Taken with the Whiteness Studies and the new storm-trooper staff, does this point to a fascist plot to take over SUM?	2003-03-03
US	51183270	R3IURWP8904ZBM	031228098X	667482054	Here Comes the Corpse A Tom & Scott Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Wedding Bell Blues For Tom And Scott	Well, you always knew that when high school teacher, Tom Mason and baseball ace pitcher, Scott Carpenter ever decided to officially tie the knot, you should get ready for the media event of the century. And thats what happens in this the ninth book in the ever-popular Tom and Scott mystery series.<br />The grandest ballroom in Chicago has been rented for the ceremony with a multi-denominational band of clergymen and women set to officiate and all the family, friends, political and sports elite and a multitude of irate and uninvited protesters in attendance. Unfortunately, one of the unexpected guests is Toms first gay lover, Ethan Gahain, who says he has to talk with Tom. Their affair had taken place when they were both seventeen, and before Ethan dumped him two years later. <br />The ceremony itself went without a hitch other than the intended one. But before Tom can talk to Ethan and the planned indoor fireworks can take place, fireworks of another sort go off in the mens room when Ethan is found brutally murdered. As you night expect, Tom is the one to discover the body and in the process he get properly bloodied. Everyone knows Tom couldnt be the murderer, and Ethans parents ask Tom and Scott to investigate the murder.<br />Along way Scotts teenaged delinquent nephew gets involved, as well as hidden camera pornography and blackmail. Tangled webs have been woven and Tom and Scott have to unravel them.<br />Though the series is growing a little old and the book is lacking in the surprises of the earlier episodes, Zubro still has a great way with words and his wit and realistic style get you through the book in a totally interesting manner. But it might be time to put more emphasis on his Paul Turner series, or to explore possibilities of a new series.<br />One of the features of this book is a trip Tom and Scott make to Saint Louis. I always enjoy rating authors on their ability to plot their action through the local streets and landmarks. Zubroscored a 9.8 with only two minor errors. Hey, thats better than what a local mystery writer scored on his last book.	2003-03-03
US	51183270	R1OD0SB3CIZV3O	0758200153	582076818	Hunk House	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Not quite the fun house I expected.	\\"Hey, I've got an idea! Why don't you write a book that capitalizes on the popularity of those reality TV programs like Big Brother, but only use all gay guys.  It doesn't have to be good because it's only for light summer reading. What have you got to lose?\\" Well, time for one thing. It's not that the concept was a total mistake from the start. It might have worked if the author had watched some of the reality TV shows and discovered that they're popular because of the interaction of the people who are on them. Then he might have developed his characters to make them interesting. Instead he centered his plot around the producer (Hamilton Peabody) and his attempt to develop a hit cable TV show that will propel him from his lowly programmer job in Dulcit City, Iowa back to Hollywood where he belongs.<br />I only read this book because I had read Ben Tyler's first novel Tricks Of The Trade. While I had liked some things and disliked others in that book, I thought the author had some potential. Unfortunately, he didn't realize or even show it with this novel.  None of the characters win you over. And the plot seems hacked together. Actually, I thought the book could have ended twice before it finally did. <br />But my biggest complaints with the book are the author's choice of villains and his lack of technical expertise. Holy misogyny, does he have something against women? In both of his books so far the villain has been a woman who is so viscous, conniving, bitchy, whiney and deceitful that she would make Cruella De Vil with PMS look good. As to technical expertise, he should researched a TV station or video production house before he started this book. I doubt that even the smallest TV station in Podunkville would edit a TV show on VHS equipment, much less store the master tape on a VHS cassette.<br />Hopefully, the author will put a little more effort into his next novel, which is currently being written.	2002-10-29
US	51183270	R18WFIH3TP72MN	1902852338	56518519	A Dangerous Thing	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Adrien English Is Back And Beter Than Ever!	Adrien English is different. He's not your ordinary run of the mill murder mystery sleuth. He's the proprietor of Cloak and Dagger Books, a small mystery bookstore in Los Angeles, and the soon-to-be-published author of Murder Will Out, a mystery novel featuring gay sleuth and Shakespearean actor Jason Leland. As a sleuth Adrien is hardly the rough and tumble action hero that you expect to see portrayed in the movies by Harrison Ford or Steven Seagal. As a matter of fact he has a bad heart, and any time he gets involved in a situation that results in any physical exertion both he and the reader fear that his old ticker will finally go tock. He's also gay, and his diva of choice is not Babs, Donna or Dion but Andrea Bocelli. Finally, he's madly in love with James Patrick Riordan (Jake), a strapping (in more ways than one) LA police detective who is so far in the closet that he can't get past the pores on Adrien's nose to kiss him on the lips.<br />And that's what sets up Adrien second murder mystery adventure. He's suffering from writer's block on his second Jason Leland mystery Death For A Deadly Deed, which is loosely based on Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus. (See I told you Adrien was different.) And his affair with Jake isn't really percolating. So he decides to get away from LA and head out to his granny's old place Pine Shadow Ranch thinking the fresh smog free air will clear away his problems.<br />Rest assured that Adrien is equally as adept at finding dead bodies on a ranch as he is on the mean streets of LA. So before long he and Jake end up getting involved not only with dead bodies, but also a lost gold mine, Indian rituals, and things that go bump in the night. <br />With A Dangerous Thing Josh Lanyon has again crafted a refreshing and witty mystery adventure for his hero. And in Adrien he has developed a very believable character, who is complex, winning and totally involves you in his ups, downs and exploits. I enjoyed this book as much as I did Fatal Shadows the first in this series, and I recommend it highly. I'm also looking forward to the next installment.	2002-10-28
US	51183270	R3QMG317BN8NQH	1575668858	131825650	Posted To Death: A Simon Kirby-Jones Mystery	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A Nearly Traditional Cozy Mystery With An Original Twist	Dame Agatha would have been right at home in the quaint but cozy English village of Snupperton Mumsley, but I don't know how she would have reacted to the village's latest resident, Simon Kirby-Jones. You see he's a little different. He's an American, but not your typical \\"ugly\\" American. He's a delightful Southern gentleman and renowned historian and biographer, who actually earns his keep by secretly churning out historical romances as Daphne Deepwood and hard-boiled female P.I. adventures as Dorinda Darington. <br />He's also gay, and to complicate matters even more, he just happens to be a vampire. Actually, he's far removed from the cliché \\"I vant to bite your neck\\" vampires of the typical horror film. It seems that medical science has finally discovered a cure for vampirism. It's a wonder drug that while it doesn't bring you back to life it does eliminate the rather unsavory aspects of being a vampire - the bloodsucking and becoming a crispy critter when exposed to sunlight. The only real drawback with the drug is the fact that drinking a cup of tea laced with garlic will usually prove fatal. And in this charming English village, that's a real possibility.<br />That's because all the inhabitants of Snupperton Mumsley have guilty little secrets. So when the village snoop and postmistress reveals that she has a play for the village church restoration affair that will reveal all the hidden secrets of the villagers, it comes as no surprise when she is discovered murdered. That's when Simon decides to use his vampire capabilities and mystery writing skills to solve the murder. That is if the murderer doesn't discover his hidden little secret.<br />Simon Kirby-Jones is a refreshing twist to the traditional English cozy, cup-of-tea murder mystery sleuth. Dean James has created a witty and totally original concept for a mystery series. I found it totally enjoyable, and since I do believe in vampires and things that go bump in the night I'm looking forward to Simon'snext odyssey in Snupperton Mumsley.	2002-10-28
US	51183270	R2BIPPA8XKAWD1	0786889632	710576433	Hearse of a Different Color: A Novel (Hitchcock Sewell Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	JUST AS GOOD AS THE FIRST HEARSE!	Hitchcock (Hitch) Sewell, Baltimore's most eligible undertaker and murder mystery mortician, is back for another totally enjoyable adventure. This time around, someone has left a potential client (body) on the front steps of Sewell and Sons Family Funeral Home in the middle of a wake for a prestigious heart surgeon and a pre-Christmas snowstorm.<br />In case you missed the first book in this series (The Hearse You Came In On), there are no sons at Sewell and Sons, just Hitch and his Aunt Billie. And the body on the doorstep is that of an ordinary (though formerly beautiful) waitress from a low-end airport pickup bar and grill. Since the police are involved with a series of \\"shot in the foot\\" murders, Hitch (being Hitch) decides he will find out who killed the women, especially after he meets her sister.<br />As you'll discover, there is this mutual attraction between Hitch and women. In this book alone, there's his ex-wife Julia; Bonnie, his weather-girl girlfriend; Vickie, the victim's sister; clients' widows plus a few B-girls and strippers thrown in for good measure.  In all, it's a totally enjoyable mix.<br />Anyway, the plot really starts getting complicated and it becomes more than a case of who killed the waitress and why. And just when you think you've got the whole thing figured out Cockey throws you another twist. In other words, you'll love this one. Now I've just got one more book in the series to read before the new one (fourth) is published in February.	2002-09-18
US	51183270	RIQ1DLOFBFF11	0441006604	822090862	The Hunt (Laws of the Blood, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	NEVER REVEAL THE TRUTH ABOUT YOUR OWN KIND	I guess I must be going through a bloodthirsty time of life because I've got a half dozen-vampire tales waiting on my to-be-read bookshelf. It seems that always happens around my birthday. Anyway, this is the first book in a series about the ENFORCERS, a select group of vampires who serve and protect the vampire community and the LAWS OF THE BLOOD, the laws that govern them.<br />The ENFORCER in this book is Selim, who is faced with three problems. The various nests (vampire families) in Hollywood are growing restless. They demand a kill, and Selim has to arrange it. Then it seems that someone has written a tell-all screenplay that reveals all the vampire secrets in violation of the first law - NEVER REVEAL THE TRUTH ABOUT YOUR OWN KIND. And to top it all off he's having problems with his relationship with his mortal love Siri. Frankly, Selim needs a vampire shrink bad.<br />The plot was good, most of the characters were interesting, but the contrived happy ending was a bit too much. I'll let you know how the second book in the series goes.	2002-09-10
US	51183270	R1FO6VICN1RRPT	0743202295	638782231	Maggody and the Moonbeams (Arly Hanks Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MAGGODY AND THE MOONBEAMS SHINES!	Every time I take a fictional visit to the rural Arkansas town of Maggody (population 775 who all seem to be Buchanons of some sort or other with yet another one on the way), I always look at the publisher's line on the bottom of the title page ... Simon & Schuster with its list of offices in New York, London, Toronto, Sydney and Singapore. It completely mystifies me trying to imagine what readers in Singapore think about the criminal justice system in Maggody.<br />Anyway, this trip into the world of high crime and comedy starts with Ruby Bee Hanks burning up the kitchen of Ruby Bee's Bar and Grill. Add Duluth Buchanon's wife running off with his children and Raz Buchanon searching for a live-in companion for his pig Marjorie. And last, but not least, Arly getting shanghaied into being a chaperone to a church group of ten out of control teens (Billy Dick, Big Mac, Darla Jean et al), who are supposed to spend a week rebuilding Camp Pearly Gates under the unfortunate guidance of Mrs. Jim Bob Buchanon (the mayor's wife) and Brother Verber (the town's preacher).<br />Once at Camp Pearly gates, everyone one starts seeing what they think are angels, ghosts and/or aliens, and Darla Jean trips over a dead body in the woods on a dark and stormy afternoon.<br />If you thought the folks in Maggody were whacko, wait until you meet the people who live around Camp Pearly Gates. As always, Joan Hess delivers up a funny and enjoyable read. (Even if I can't keep track of all the Buchanons!)	2002-09-10
US	51183270	R3DZW9RY0VNZ4G	1565122518	320531227	Boulevard	Books	5	3	6	N	N	COMING OF AGE ON THE BIG EASY BOULEVARDS	This novel tells the stories of  a circa 1976 New Orleans, Newell, a somewhat naïve country boy who moves there from Alabama, and the various people he encounters after his arrival. Reading this book, you'll visit a New Orleans that will never exist again and meet a cast of vivid characters that you will never forget. <br />The story begins as Newell arrives in New Orleans on a one-way bus ticket with just enough cash to live on for a few weeks until he finds a job. (If you can call eating cold canned soup living.) Luckily, his innocence (and probably his boyish charm) finds him a place to live, gets him a job as a bus boy, loses his job as a bus boy and finds him yet another job in a porno bookstore where he is allowed to thrive, develop and meet the other characters populating the  boulevard of New Orleans.<br />And what characters they are -- you'll love some and hate others, find some with stories that almost make you cry and others that are just unforgettable. Actually, some of the characters are so totally developed they could be the center of a book of their own.<br />This novel is the first thing I've read by Jim Grimsley and I discovered very quickly that he is a first class writer. Naturally that makes BOULEVARD a first class book, and probably the best I've read this year! If you are like me and haven't read Jim Grimsley before, get this book now! You won't be sorry.	2002-09-10
US	51183270	R2ZQ57DQL6AL3Q	0375759093	990371894	The Summer They Came	Books	5	0	2	N	N	SELL IT RIGHT, AND THEY WILL COME!	What if someone wanted to turn a sleepy seacoast town like Long Spit, Rhode Island into the next gay vacation mecca in a single season? How would they go about it? Well, if you happen to be Artie Kinzie, you'd probably place a few very tempting ads in the Advocate and other gay publications for the local bed and breakfasts and hotels without telling them about the ads. And then you'd just wait for the boys to come.<br />That's what happens in William Storandt's hot summer read. And as a result you meet a very interesting town, as well as the people who live or come there. Some of the townspeople hate the \\"invaders\\", some are revitalized, some come out of the closet, and some find love for the first time. But all of them and Long Spit itself make this all too short novel so totally enjoyable.<br />I realize this is a very short review, but I really want you to discover this book on your own. It was the kind of book I wish would never come to an end - a thoroughly great read for any time of the year.	2002-09-10
US	51183270	R2NCZP9GF61ZHR	0312289006	444545720	Hot Spot : A Mark Manning Mystery	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A SHOCKING WAY TO START A MARRIAGE, BUT A GREAT MYSTERY!	HOT SPOT, the sixth novel in the Mark Manning Mystery series is a tale of transitions. First, Thad Quatrain, Mark's ward and nephew, is preparing to leave home for college. Next, Roxanne Exner, Mark and Neil's best friend, has finally committed herself to matrimony to Carl Creighton. And the wedding is to be held at Mark and Neil's home in Dumont. And to top everything else off, Carl is running for political office in Illinois; a move, which if he is successful, would take him and Roxanne from nearby Chicago to the state capitol of Springfield.  <br />Knowing Roxanne from the past books in the series, you'd expect the wedding to be a major disaster. But other than the actual joining of Rox and Carl, it takes place without a hitch. (Joke) Unfortunately, it is the reception that becomes a disaster when an elderly and wealthy Dumont matron is electrocuted in a freak accident. But was it an accident? It begins to look like homicide and the new bride is the prime suspect<br />As I've said before, the author keeps getting better with each book in the series, and this one is the best yet. The plot is littered with possible suspects and red herrings that keep you guessing to the very end. And other than \\"obfuscation\\" I loved ever word in it. (Another joke) Unfortunately, I can't say the same for the dust jacket illustration. The Bride of Frankenstein photo will probably attract consumer attention but it demeans the text inside.<br />This story is set in the same timeframe as that of Desert Autumn, the first book in the new Claire Gray series.  In that book the noted stage director, Claire Gray is preparing for the opening semester of the Desert Arts College in California, which just happens to be the college where Thad is heading. (Insider information - Mark will be making a guest appearance in the second book of the series scheduled for a February release.)<br />The final transition has Mark and Neil alone in the big house in Dumont. Sounds pretty tame, but you know that something is going to come up soon. And it's sure to be a dozey! So far, you can't go wrong with this series and HOT SPOT will keep you up late turning the pages.	2002-07-29
US	51183270	RKDS2D5QE4AT7	0758200889	988982193	Summer Share	Books	5	2	2	N	N	FOUR ... FOUR FANTASTIC TRIPS IN ONE!	SUMMER SHARE is an anthology of four gay summer romance novellas set in four summer vacation sites and designed for perfect summer reading. <br />The first stop is Aspen in August with SUGAR DADDY SUMMER by Chris Kenry. It features Walter, the personification of a sugar daddy; Keith and Derek, his totally obnoxious ex's; Brian, his current and most sensible flame; and Jake a man from the past and possible future. Kenry is the author of Can't Buy Me Love and this season's Uncle Max. In SUGAR DADDY SUMMER he shows all of the creative skills he showed in Can't Buy Me Love, but didn't in Uncle Max. This one gets my 4.5 stars.<br />Next stop is P-Town with THE PERFECT HUSBAND by William J. Mann. This one features Andy Krywinski and Troy Palmer, old college buddies who are on a summer quest to P-Town - to finally find their Mr. Rights. Mann is the author of The Men From The Boys, The Biograph Girl and the upcoming Where The Boys Are. I hadn't read any of his previous works, but I probably will be in the near future since I felt his contribution to this anthology was the best written. A full 5 stars here.<br />The exotic Hawaiian Islands (now and six years ago) are the setting for THE OUTLINE OF A TORSO by Andy Schell. Six years ago three best buds and budding gay teens were having a surfing summer when a very \\"straight\\" and seductive teen, Ethan Prather showed up and devastated not only their summer but also their lives. Now six years have gone by and the three recent college grads have returned to Maui for their summer vacation. And guess who also shows up? Schell is the author of the best selling novel, My Best Man. His contribution to Summer Share is a little more serious in tone and extremely well written. He earned my 5 stars with it.<br />SATISFACTION by Ben Tyler takes you to the gay Mecca of Palm Springs for a series of summer weekends. Dusty, a Hollywood PR man, is in love with an older Chad, who apparently can't get enough love, until Dusty walks in to find himand his latest twink in the hot tub and naturally walks out. Dusty then sets out to rebuild his life and find love anew. Tyler is the author of Tricks Of The Trade and the current Hunk House. His tale was the most predictable of the four, but I'll give him 4 stars.<br />SUMMER SHARE is perfect for summer reading - light, but enjoyable If you don't want to get bogged down in a long multi-page novel here's the book for you.	2002-07-29
US	51183270	R24Q9Q3Z6EBFRO	0892967188	747660556	Put a Lid on It	Books	5	6	9	N	N	PROFESSIONAL THIEF vs. POLITICAL CROOKS	Westlake is up against the real crooks this time as he takes on the spindoctors, dirty tricks and honorable candidates of our national political scene. And you know he's going to win in the end by poking fun \\"RIGHT\\" and \\"LEFT!\\"<br />Francis Xavier Meehan is a thief. He's also sitting in jail getting ready to be found guilty of \\"big time\\" federal charges because the ordinary truck he helped hijack wasn't full of the expected computer stuff from Mexico, but U.S. Postal Service mail. Then out of the blue a very non-lawyerly person claiming to be his lawyer shows up at the jail to see him and makes him a deal that he can't refuse. It seems as if the president, who is running for re-election has committed a slight political blunder, which just happens to be detailed on a video tape the opposition is going to release as a last minute dirty trick that will blow the election. So Meehan agrees to the offer which is to steal the tape and watch the federal charges disappear.<br />So, do you really expect a bunch of politicians to ever do anything right - especially in a Westlake comedy of errors? Before long everyone from the opposition to international espionage agents know that something is brewing with Francis Xavier.<br />There's no \\"little blue dress\\" in this political farce, but expect to see just about everything else. Westlake has returned to his classic comic crime style for this one and created a whole new cast of enjoyable characters that really deserve a second visit. Hint. Hint. This one has my total recommendation.	2002-07-19
US	51183270	RZK6RPEBURV7A	0786868139	384130626	The Snow Garden: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A FRIGID THRILLER FULL OF SECRETS	The book opens with the mysterious death of Pamela Milford in an icy creek (actually a drainage ditch) that runs through Atherton University in March of 1983. The why and wherefore of this young woman's death is the first secret and the driving force in this book of secrets.<br />Jumping forward to November 2001, we are introduced to three freshmen at Atherton trying to escape from dark, haunted secrets of their pasts. Randall is openly gay with the looks of a male fashion model and is having an affair with one of his married professors. Kathryn is his best friend; straight but affectionately called the Ice Queen for obvious reasons.  And Jesse, Randall's roommate is a typical hetero hunk with strange ulterior motives behind his many sexual conquests. <br />Their old secrets are very slow in being revealed while new secrets keep popping up. Since Kathryn won't have anything to do with men other than gay Randall, is she a lesbian? Why won't Randall take his clothes off in front of Jesse while  the lights are on? And does Kathryn hate Jesse so much because she's afraid he's trying to seduce Randall?<br />Finally, the secrets of 2001 come face to face with the secrets of 1983, when the wife of the professor Randall is sleeping with is killed when her car crashes into that same icy creek/drainage ditch as before. Is there some connection? Is the new death murder? <br />Soon the past and present become more entwined and the secrets are finally revealed in bits, pieces, emails and newspaper clippings. The third and final part of the book becomes a real page-turner as you race to the conclusion searching to find out not who the murder is, but who will survive?<br />Christopher Rice is an extremely talented young writer and hopefully someday people will review his work without mention of his famous mother and father. I enjoyed his book very much, however I was totally lost with the dynamic theory of mixing wax and water which is not believably explained. (I'd love to hear from anyone who could really explain this.) Other than that I can totally recommend this book to you.	2002-06-19
US	51183270	R6LUUAIN7LCLW	0786709545	653096156	The Scared Stiff	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A COMIC CAPER WITH AN ADDED WHO DONE IT FOR MYSTERY FANS	Barry and Lola Lee have reached the end of solvency and their only out seems to be borrowing against their life insurance policies. The only problem is the fact that in order to save money originally they bought \\"term\\" insurance and now they're actually worth more dead than alive. Light bulb flash!  What if they faked an accidental (double indemnity) death for Barry? And where would be a better place to fake it than Lola's native country Guerrara where official record keeping is less than minimal? Sounds simple, right?<br />No way! You know how a classic caper novel is going to go when first the characters practice to deceive. And it's even worse in Guerrara, where Barry Lee who has to disguise himself as a native can barely understand (much less speak) Spanish. The simple soon becomes a bit complicated, then a lot complicated and finally totally out-of-hand as bothers, sisters, cousins, police, insurance investigators, and Madonna the pig all try to get a piece of the action, which naturally means Barry. Besides, how far is $600,000 going to go?<br />In order to work, a caper has to be fun, well plotted and believable. And this is the case with STIFF. Each problem that arises is solved and replaced with still another problem. Do Barry and Lola get away with their fraud and/or the money? Does Barry get out of the country, or does he get eaten by the pig? For the answer to these and many more twists and turns, you'll have to read the book for yourself. And I guarantee you'll enjoy it, too!<br />This caper also gives you a bonus mystery if you're so inclined. The author of the book is listed as JUDSON JACK CARMICHAEL. (Why does that name sound so familiar?) However, this is just a pseudonym for a best selling author who lives in New York. (Which is only fitting since in the book Barry Lee goes through as many identities as the Guerraran phone book.) So if you're into this type of writing, you can also try to figure out the true identity of the author. Based on his past writings I believe I was able to do this. But it wouldn't be fair to tell, so read the book for yourself and let me know if you know who done it.	2002-05-28
US	51183270	R23UIEN7TULAIB	1575668475	802685709	Uncle Max	Books	5	6	7	N	N	EXPECTED AN UNCLE MAME, BUT GOT OLIVER TWISTED INSTEAD!	Before I say anything about this fine book which really earned my five stars, I have to express one complaint about the publisher and the dust jacket illustrator. Both should have read the book before plopping an illustration on the cover, which not only has nothing to with the book's theme but also creates an entirely different impression of what the book is about. <br />In other words, it is not the totally \\"FAB\\" gay summer romp the jacket suggests. Instead, it tells the coming out story of fourteen-year old Dillion who happens to be named for the lake where by accident he was conceived. A product of a multiply broken home, an alcoholic abusive mother, a junior high school system out to get him, and his own budding sexual inclinations, Dillion seems to be heading toward depression and alcoholism (and/or bible camp and military school) all on his own. <br />Just when everything looks as bleak as possible, Uncle Max (black sheep, ex-con, and would be Fagan) appears in the wine cellar to save the day (?) for Dillion. He then proceeds to introduce him to shoplifting, Balzac, cat burglary, mountain (and wall) climbing and eventually life itself.<br />Fortunately, Kenry's witty and expert story telling skills save the book from being as depressing as it might sound. Uncle Max is a hard character to love - you want to, but he's so ... self-indulgently Uncle Max. Dillion, on the other hand, you can't help but love. You know that no matter how the book ends, he'll find some way to be a winner.<br />While UNCLE MAX is a notch below Chris Kenry's outstanding first book CAN'T BUY ME LOVE, it still is very enjoyable reading, and I recommend it to you all.	2002-05-24
US	51183270	RALVZMB6OPAJE	0380978431	901899275	The Body in the Bonfire: A Faith Fairchild Mystery	Books	4	7	7	N	N	COOKING FOR IDIOTS COOKS UP MURDER!	This is my first visit to the world of Catering Capers with Faith Fairchild and I found it very enjoyable. The book opens in the middle of January when no one is in the mood for social affairs, which in turn makes Faith's catering business less than bustling. So she agrees to go undercover (in the guise of teaching a Cooking For Idiots class) at a boys' prep school to investigate some racist attacks against the school's sole African-American student.<br />Unfortunately, the only thing her class cooks up is theft and multiple murders - one being that of her prime suspect in the racist attack who turns up well done in a school rally bonfire. But we know all the incidents have to be connected someway. And Faith will figure it all out in the end with some surprising results.<br />Faith is a very likable heroine - her adventures make for fun reading and her recipes at the end of the book are quite tasty. The Smothered Pork Chops were first rate, but her Peanut Butter Cookies couldn't compare to the ones my mother used to make.	2002-05-24
US	51183270	R2Y4WCMIZTCJSR	1575667649	170292796	Bound In Blood: The Erotic Journey of a Vampire	Books	4	14	15	N	N	LOVED THE BOOK, HATED THE VAMP!	Jean-Luc (Jack) Courbet seems to be your average wealthy 27-year old Greenwich Village inhabitant with the tall perfectly muscled body of a gay Olympic God. Fortunately he hasn't aged a day in almost 130 years --- ever since his late stepfather, the Marquis de Charnac, provided him with the opportunity to be reborn as an undead. In other words, Jean-Luc was wooed, used and vampirized by daddy dearest. <br />Now, as Jack searches the Village haunts and meats racks for his next meal (he has a taste for only the finest \\"beefboys\\" on display) he realizes that his mother, the Vampiress from Hell, has again tracked him down.  And, as she has done before, is adding her own victims to his normally discrete dining choices in order to create a public panic and media circus about the \\"Horror Of West Street,\\" which she would like everyone to believe is non other than her son Jack. Well, at least some of the victims on the rapidly growing list were objects of his \\"love and lust\\" but not all of them. Besides, his victims were politely offed in a loving and gentlemanly way, while the strange kills were brutally slaughtered.<br />Unlike the \\"straight or somewhat straight\\" vampires that populate the writings of Laurel Hamilton, Jack is a totally repulsive gay vampire with no redeeming human qualities (probably because he is a vampire) and you're sure to hate him like I did. Actually, he reminded me of the way a lot of gay men use and abuse their love/lust choices in real life. So maybe the author wrote Jack the way he is as a social commentary.<br />Fortunately, that didn't keep me from rapidly turning the pages to see what happened next. And hopefully it will be the same way for you. Unfortunately, too many loose ends are left dangling at the end of the book, which means that a sequel is undoubtedly on the way.	2002-05-15
US	51183270	R2Y5YCYQ55QVVJ	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WHO KNOWS WHAT EVIL LURKS INSIDE YOUR COMPUTER?	Jeffery Deaver has come up with a real thriller here that will not only keep you up much too late at night, but also keep you offline as far as your computer is concerned. The plot is simple: a computer \\"wizard\\" known as Phate has come up with a \\"daemon\\"  or hidden computer program that allows him to take over the computers of ordinary \\"citizens\\" like you and me and manipulate their lives and lead them to their deaths. (If you don't understand the \\"codeslinger\\" lingo, Deaver provides a three-page glossary at the start of the book to bring you up to code.) <br />Anyway, to stop this computer killer the CCU (The Computer Crimes Unit of the California State Police) has come up with their own \\"wizard\\", Wyatt Gillette who just happens to be doing time in prison for doing some hacking of his own. Like some gigantic real-life computer game, Phate seems to be in complete control - even going so far as to brutally and blatantly murder a member of the CCU team trying to capture him. It's a race against time, and Phate is using every computer skill that he has in order to delay and misdirect his pursuers. <br />Deaver has written a book with well-developed and interesting characters. And even if you know less about computers than I do, (which happens to be next to nothing) this tale will keep you turning pages as fast as you can, and by the time you finish the book you'll realize that you even learned a bit about how the computer world works. This one really earned my top rating, even if it did keep me from turning my iMac on for a while..	2002-05-13
US	51183270	R3C1TKJ0NKGARJ	0786889624	243700920	The Hearse You Came in On (Hitchcock Sewell Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MEET THE MURDER MYSTERY MORTICIAN	Meet Hitchcock Sewell, Hitch for short and the star of this totally enjoyable mystery who just happens to be Baltimore's \\"most eligible undertaker\\" or bereavement consultant if you're sort of squeamish or want to be politically correct.<BR> <BR>\\"A murder mystery mortician,\\" you might ask at this point, \\"Can you be serious?\\"  Sure, why not, having a mortician as your lead character is the most unique setup for a screwball mystery series that I seen in a long time. And Hitch is a most totally likable character. (Darling and loveable to most of the female readers of this book, I'm told.)<br />As the story begins Hitch is minding his business and \\"chaperoning the dead into their graves\\" at Sewell and Sons (there are no sons by the way, just Hitch and his Aunt Billie) when a beautifully women walks into Parlor One dressed for a hot game of tennis. She says she's Carolyn James and she wants to make funereal arrangements for ... herself. But then she backs down and makes a hasty retreat.<br />For Hitch it is infatuation at first site, and he's sure he's going to have to track down the mysterious Ms. James until the next day when Aunt Billie tells him that a \\"new client\\" had just been delivered ... a suicide by the name of Carolyn James. Hitch rushes to look at the body and realizes that he's never seen the woman before.<br />This is just the start of many fun twists and turns that will keep you going throughout the entire book until the very last page. And if you just happen to have an interest in the theater as I do, you won't want to miss the outrageous subplot involving the Gypsy Player's production of Our Town with Hitch playing the part of the stage manager. It takes the idea of concept productions to the hilarious extreme.<br />This book was published two years ago, but I didn't catch up to it until last year. So I give it a belated ***** and recommend it to you all. The author has since added two more books to the series which are currently on my to read list.	2002-05-09
US	51183270	R1EW0F45W35QXT	0671016857	128057121	murder@maggody.com: An Arly Hanks Mystery (Arly Hanks Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	MAGGODY GOES ONLINE WITH MURDER!	This is my first visit to the fictional community of Maggody, Arkansas. ....<br />Things move slow in Maggody, AK (population 755) and when the 21st Century gets ready to move in via a computer lab for the local high school the entire multitude of assorted and sundry Buchanons, as well as all the other good citizens, are in a royal dither. (Which I think is another way of saying an Ozarkian farce.) It seems as if everyone is worried about all the additional evils the internet will unleash - SEX, SIN, SPAM and SATAN hisself! But since the since the computers are already sitting in a storage shed behind the school, and the school is planning special cyber classes for all the adults in town it looks like Maggody will indeed be going online. <br />But like I said, things move slow in Maggody. (It does takes a while to catch up with all the coming and goings of the myriad Buchanons - how does Hess keep them all straight? By the way, Myriad Buchanon would probably be a good addition to the cast of characters in a future book.) So you're half way through the book before the first body shows up! (Population now 754) About the same time all hell breaks loose - people start receiving evil apparitions with their email, Ruby Bee and Estelle end up in the mud under a Pot O' Gold trailer and maybe Satan is indeed possessing the populace.  To top it all off, chief of police Arly Hanks is having as hard a time getting a decent meal as she is find out what's going on.<br />In Maggody, I've discovered that the fun isn't in finding out \\"who done it\\" as much as it is finding out who's doing what and why among the wild and wacky cast of characters. So I'll admit it, while I hated vacationing there years ago, I'm hooked on the books! I just bought two more Maggodies and this one gets my ...! <br />...	2002-04-03
US	51183270	RO4RFMRA375JM	0380977249	211102990	Fury: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	GREAT NEW FACES ON THE SEATTLE CRIME FIGHTING SCENE	FURY<BR>by<BR>G. M. Ford<br />For six books I have read and enjoyed G. M. Ford's exploits of Seattle private investigator, Leo Waterman. Leo wasn't your ordinary breed of PI; he was unique and totally original. And so were his adventures. When FURY was released, I probably put off reading it because I felt Ford had abandoned one of my fictional heroes by creating a new character. Boy, was I wrong! This first book of a new series is even better than Ford's first six books.<br />Actually, Leo Waterman hasn't been abandoned totally; he makes a cameo appearance at the beginning of this book. He's been hired by the publisher of the Seattle Sun to locate the recluse best selling author, \\"defrocked\\" journalist and occasional syndicated columnist for the tabloid, Frank Corso. Something has come up and the paper needs him now.<br />That \\"something\\" just happens to the pending execution of Walter Leroy Himes, the convicted \\"trashman\\" serial killer. Six days before he's scheduled to get the needle, the prosecution's key witness it trying to tell everyone that she lied at the trial. Unfortunately, no one wants to listen to her; it seems as if everyone from the victims' families to most of the citizens of Seattle, the police and even the mayor would rather have Himes dead. Corso is the only person who thinks Himes is innocent, but he has less than six days to prove it and find the real \\"trashman\\" killer.<br />With the help of his highly \\"illustrated\\" assistant and photographer Meg Dougherty, Corso begins racing against the clock only to discover more lies, cover-ups, corruption and even murder. FURY is a virtual race to the deadline that will leave you breathless, because in this case deadline really does mean DEAD! <br />Ford has created a great new pair of crime solvers, as well as an outstanding new series. I can't wait for the next book in the series that is now in the works. I'll bet you won't be able to wait either.	2002-04-01
US	51183270	RDWWKKVKG3UF6	0446610038	30029813	1st to Die: A Novel (Women's Murder Club, No 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	THE WOMEN'S MURDER CLUB GOES INTO ACTION!	On page six/chapter two/paragraph one of 1ST TO DIE you'll discover the name of the serial killer in this rapid-fire page turning thriller. Then all you have to do for the next 465 pages is figure out who he is and why he's killing newlyweds in San Francisco and other selected locations across the country. <br />Along the way you'll be introduced to Lindsay Boxer-lead inspector of SFPD homicide squad, Cindy Thomas - local interest reporter for the Chronicle trying to make the front page, Claire Washburn - SF chief medical examiner, and Jill Bernhardt - SF assistant district attorney. Setting out to catch a vicious killer they become what they jokingly refer to as THE WOMEN'S MURDER CLUB.<br />One word of warning, don't start reading this book unless you plan on spending the rest of the day, or in my case night, rapidly turning the pages. And let me tell you that I was actually able to figure out who the killer really was! Several times as a matter of fact - correctly, incorrectly, correctly, incorrectly, correctly all the way to the final page. Trust me Patterson provides more than enough twists, turns, and subplots to keep you turning those pages.<br />He has also provided a well-rounded, intelligent cast of lead characters who deal with all the personal ups, downs, joys and tragedies of life in addition to stopping the killer. I believed in them and I'm sure most readers will. This book gets my five stars. Now I'm ready to start the sequel!	2002-03-23
US	51183270	R4363DE6WYM7R	031218106X	341428683	Groucho Marx, Master Detective	Books	3	0	2	N	N	DON'T BET YOUR LIFE ON THIS ONE!	Everyone knows Groucho was the master of the somewhat leering, slightly suggestive non sequitur. As a comic he was a master of stage and screen with his equally masterful brothers. And on his own he mastered radio and television with his You Bet Your Life quiz show. But could you ever imagine him as a master detective?<br />Well, that's the premise of this book. Set in the thirties, the story opens with Groucho getting ready to go solo and star in a new radio show to be called GROUCHO MARX, MASTER DETECTIVE. The show is being written by Frank Denby, a former police reporter turned wannabe scriptwriter. Suddenly, a budding movie starlet commits suicide. Groucho, who admits to sleeping with the woman, is convinced she would never kill herself and he asks Denby to help him investigate the matter.<br />Denby's investigation uncovers the possibility of murder, blackmail, police corruption, organized crime and a sinister Hollywood cover-up. And to top it off, he and Groucho seem to have been added to the hit list.<br />Although the author has a parade of thirties era celebrities (or their names) dropping in on the action, his writing does not really have a convincing feel for the era. And while Groucho's constant quips are often quite funny, he comes across more as a caricature than a real character. The book was alright, but in the end take a bit of Groucho's advice ... don't shoot elephants in your pajamas and if you want to read about celebrity sleuths stick to Kaminsky and Baxt. I was also bothered by the dust jacket illustration which seems to be closely based on the classic and highly superior Hirshfield drawing of Groucho.	2002-03-23
US	51183270	R1YQ349PMAHV4V	0312109393	597897438	The Bette Davis Murder Case	Books	5	8	8	N	N	BETTE MEETS AGATHA TO CATCH A KILLER!	Bette Davis is having problems in Hollywood. Warner Brothers won't provide the juicy parts she needs to broaden her screen career, and she wants to renegotiate her contract. Also, her marriage seems to be on the rocks. So naturally, she decides to sail to England to get away from it all.  On the ship she meets Nydia Tilson, a prominent medium. And since Bette is looking for a place to live while in London, Nydia suggests she rent the mansion of her former fiancé, the famous archaeologist, Virgil Wynn. Bette is more that willing to do so.<br />Unfortunately, it appears as if someone is slowly murdering Virgil, who realizes this but with stiff British upper lip sits around fading away while planning to leave on his next (and probably last) archaeological dig. <br />Bette moves in the day Virgil that moves out for journey to Egypt. She also meets her next door neighbor a certain Mrs. Mallowan, who just happens to be a writer with a passion for eating apples.<br />The next morning Bette wakes to discover Virgil's dead body. Informing her neighbor of the situation Agatha Mallowan responds, &quot;My specialité. A body in the library!&quot;<br />The rest of the novel unwinds in true Christie-style with loads of suspicious friends, relatives and hired help. (Unfortunately, there's no butler who could have done it.)<br />As in all of his celebrity mysteries, Baxt has again thoroughly researched both the history of the era and the lives of Bette Davis and Agatha Christie. This results in a very believable and enjoyable work. This one set on my book shelf for a couple of years before I got around to reading it. So you might have a hard time finding a copy of it. If you do, grab it because it is a fun read.	2002-03-23
US	51183270	R2S8TKFA81VVOH	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Hiaasen Rocks and Rolls In This One!	Carl Hiaasen's latest comedy crime novel introduces Jack Tagger; a former star investigative reporter banished to obit writer thanks to a slight confrontation with the paper's CEO at the stockholders' meeting of the giant newspaper conglomerate. Jack is sure that he can get back on the front page with the help of an obituary of some \\"famous stiff.\\" And when former rocker Jimmy Stoma of Jimmy and Slut Puppies dies in a questionable skin-diving accident he thinks he might have his story. Especially when it looks like someone is trying to kill the remaining Slut Puppies.<br />Hiaasen abandons his usual environmental pulpit as a subplot in this novel in order to take on the plight of newspapers that are being emasculated by profit hungry publishing conglomerates. Actually, this is a welcome change, and the issue actually plays an important part in the novel's plot. (I also was able to identify with these issues.) <br />The characters are all well defined with the villains, while still being totally vile, vicious, and evil, this time coming across more as characters and less as caricatures.  Because of (and not in spite of) his many quirks, you have to like Jack Tagger and his quest for his front page near impossible dream. By the way, along the way he finds love in the most unlikely of places.<br />Hiaasen is back in top form with this one, and I recommend it highly!	2002-02-21
US	51183270	R2YIKBRPTA4W2F	078670862X	900709616	A Few Minutes Past Midnight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TOBY PETERS RETURNS! FINALLY!	I read my first Toby Peters' story twenty-five years ago. It was A BULLET FOR A STAR, and I immediately fell in love with him, the characters that surround him, the world he lives in, and with the writing of the author who created him. <br />During that twenty-five years, Toby has managed to star in twenty mystery adventures (each with its own celebrity guest star) while only aging five fictional years. <br />That is why its strange that the characters seen to have aged and changed so much in the time between this novel and previous one, A FATAL GLASS OF BEER. Maybe, the war or personal concerns are wearing them down. Or maybe it's the fact that the Golden Era of Hollywood is winding to a close. Or maybe, we, the readers and the author, are just growing old. I hope not, Toby Peters exists in a time warp that Stuart Kaminsky, his creator was always able to capture so perfectly. Besides, I still have hopes that someone in television will finally realize that Toby's adventures would make a GREAT television series.<br />Anyway, return to a wartime Hollywood in 1943 - Charlie Chaplin is Toby's latest co-star and client - and it seems as if someone has borrowed the plot of Lady Killer, Chaplin's latest movie project, for a real life murder spree.  Now all Toby and his cast of supporting players (a midget, a giant and a mad dentist) have to do is catch the killer before he completes his gruesome project.<br />While this book was not up to par with earlier Toby Peter's adventures, I still enjoyed it and I encourage you to give it a try and meet Toby and his associates. By the way, though Toby does not meet his next client at the end of this book as he usually does, I understand that the next adventure will co-star the lord of the jungle himself, Johnny Weismuller. And I can't wait!	2002-02-21
US	51183270	R2RU2955A5ZJOA	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Anita Blake - Below Par Vampire Hunting	I have really enjoyed all of the the previous Anita Blake books and really looked forward to this the tenth in the series. Unfortunately, it was not up to my expections. Somehow, the spirit and page turning drive of the others is missing from this one. I notice in her acknowledgements that Ms. Hamilton refers to time constraints regarding the book. Could this be the problem? Is the second series she is writing making it impossible to meet deadlines?<br />The character dialogue is too long, too drawn out and not in real time. It needs simplification and editing. People are in danger and still the characters talk and talk.and talk! I timed one segment where Anita has to rush off to get Jean Claude out ot jail before the sun rises. Reading just the spoken parts aloud took over and hour and this did not include the time needed for wild animal sex in the shower! <br />The plot of the book was also extremely complicated, confusing and sometimes even bordering on boring. Whatever happened to the simple vampire, werewolf and vampire hunter triangle that has served the series so well?<br />Hopefully, if the series continues, Ms. Hamilton will have the time to produce first quality fiction like her earlier books.	2002-02-14
US	51183270	RHEOETKQOM97K	1555835856	123958089	Murder in the Rue Dauphine: A Mystery	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	TAKE A CHANCE ON CHANSE MACLEOD - You'll be glad you did!	This book takes you to the heart of New Orleans and introduces Chanse MacLeod, a gay former college athlete and New Orleans cop turned private investigator. His detective work is basically business security jobs with an occasional personal investigation. However, as he says repeatedly throughout the book, \\"he does not do murders.\\" That does not keep him from getting personally involved with one that occurs, as the title states, on the Rue Dauphine.<br />The action begins at the Bodytech Gym where he meets Mike Hansen, a super stud gymbot with to-die-for dimples. Mike has a problem. His wealthy, closeted and married lover is being blackmailed, and he would like Chanse to investigate. The $50,000 he is offered to find the blackmailer is too good to refuse; and Chanse takes the case.<br />Unfortunately, before he can start looking for the blackmailer he discovers Mike murdered in an apparent hate crime. And even though \\"he doesn't do murders\\" he continues his investigation, which reveals that just about everyone in gay New Orleans disliked Mike. To make matters worse, his investigation is soon complicated by shootings, muggings, male prostitutes, pro- and anti-gay rights demonstrations and his own questions about his relationship with his current lover Paul.<br />The plot of the book is very tight with two solid main characters; Chanse and Paige Tourneur, his best friend and crime reporter. And despite their atrocious names (really, a page-turner), I would like to read about them in future adventures. Hopefully, Greg Herren has plans to continue this as a series. He is really a very good writer, and I think there is a lot of potential for his work crossing over to a more widespread readership. He's got my total indorsement!	2002-02-14
US	51183270	R1J4LDUFX4MXDJ	0312280343	979753867	Desert Autumn: A Claire Gray Mystery (Claire Gray Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A STANDING OVATION FOR CLAIRE GREY'S DEBUT!	In DESERT AUTUMN Michael Craft finally gives voice (and a new mystery series) to Claire Grey, his first lady of the American theater who had been previously introduced as a minor character in his successful Mark Manning series. <br />Now as she begins her own series, Claire's reputation as a leading theatrical director and playwright has brought her to the attention of computer software maven, D.Glenn Yeats. Yeats is personally supplying the cash and drive needed to build and staff his own Desert Arts College near Palm Springs, California. His goal is to create the ultimate educational facility dedicated to the arts staffed by the leading practitioners in each of its many fields. Naturally he sees Claire as the crowning jewel of his illustrious faculty, and after repeated attempts he finally persuades in her to head the drama department of the school. <br />The novel begins with Claire's arrival in the desert shortly before the opening of the school year where she is quickly introduced to not just the other members of the faculty, but also the body of the wife of one of her fellow professors. Naturally, the woman has been murdered; and Claire (noting that in the theater the two motives for murder are either greed or passion) decides that the motive for this murder had to be passion as she sets out to (unofficially) aid the police in uncovering the murderer. <br />The book is fast-paced and well-endowed with plot twists. Just when you think you've discovered the identity of the murderer, another potential suspect is revealed. Actually, the characters keep auditioning for the part of the murderer right up to the concluding chapter, which naturally ends with a traditionally theatrical flair. <br />DESERT AUTUMN is a well-written and entertaining novel with the cast of extremely interesting characters needed to populate a continuing series. Although, I felt at times the key characters of Grant and Kiki just didn't ring true. But based on the author's previous work, thisminor detail will be resolved as the series progresses. <br />Overall, I was particularly attracted to this book because it combines two of my interests - mystery fiction and the world of the theater. Claire Grey is a welcome addition to the ranks of fiction's amateur sleuths and I not only look forward to her continuing adventures, I also encourage you to add her to<BR>your reading list, too.	2002-01-16
US	51183270	R15DF2CDLROY94	0595138497	473471648	Mystery Without Any Clues	Books	1	3	4	N	Y	MYSTERY WITHOUT ANY CLUES, BUT TOO MANY - - - -	What happens when you take two gay men, one lesbian neighbor, a crossdresser, a woman on the verge of a nervous breakdown, assorted other characters and mix in a murder? Hey, the concept sounded great, and I expected to find the promised &quot;fast and funny&quot; murder mystery. <br />Unfortunately, the author failed to deliver on his own story outline and what I got was a very poor example of creative composition, grammer and puncuation. I often use dashes for effect in my writing, but this book is overpopulated with them. So many in fact, that I found myself tripping over ordinary hyphenated words. Come on, the old comma rule applies for dashes, too. When in doubt, leave them out!<br />Composition and grammer aside, the character development is very weak. Besides being a totally bitchy and  unlikable bunch,  they all speak in the same voice and unless a &quot;______ said&quot; is provided you really don't have any idea which character is speaking.<br />The author started out with a plot premise that offered unlimited possibilities, however before he attempts the next book in his promised series he had better find a good editor to help him deliver a polished end product instead of another first draft.	2001-10-24
US	51183270	RIJU6YUBCQZ0Y	0425180468	541931868	Fax me a Bagel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	SO, I LIKE BAGELS!	To be honest, I picked up this book because of the title. I've always had this thing for bagels and the totally twisted title caught my eye. And would you believe, I ended up not only loving the book, but also Ruby Rothman, the rabbi's widow. (Can't figure out why everyone calls her the rabbi's wife since he was killed by a hit and run driver some time ago. Maybe it's a Jewish thing.)<br />Anyway, widowed Ruby is a computer consultant  in Eternal, Texas where the place to go for bagels is The Hot Bagel owned by Lebanese Milt Aboud. While waiting for her weekly bagels Ruby witnesses the death by cinnamon cyadide bagel of a member of her temple's congregation. Naturally, everyone but Ruby thinks Milt did it and she sets out to prove he didn't .<br />Until she does, you get to enjoy the cowboy-booted congregation of the Temple Rita (Don't ask!), the overly opinionated new-rabbi-to-be (Don't call me Kevin, call me Rabbi Kapstein) who would like to turn ex-rabbi's wife Ruby back into a rabbi's wife and Essie Sue Margolis Temple Rita's self-appointed everything who wants to erect a statue of her murdered sister on the temple steps in the guise of Queen Esther.<br />Even though I uncovered the identity of the murderer long before Rudy, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The not very subtle but totally funny combination of the Jewish and Texas cultures is to die for. Try it, I'm sure you'll like it. I'm actually ordering Ruby's next two adventures right now!	2001-10-11
US	51183270	R2IWMZ79YHILP3	0312271174	215674222	The Chicken Asylum: An Alex Reynolds Mystery (Alex Reynolds Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	HIGH GAY INTRIGUE AND HIJINKS ARE BACK!	Alex, Peter and Jean are back as our favorite undercover CIA operatives for yet another enjoyable adventure. Based on the titles of his previous four books I had been expecting Fred Hunter to name this one Presidential Pansies. He didn't, so instead we have The Chicken Asylum and the end of his fun series of gay themed titles. <br />The plot involves having Alex (now an almost ex-freelance designer), his lover Peter (still selling men's clothing ) and Jean (his sometimes very British mother) being asked by their CIA boss, Larry Nelson, to provide a safe house for an eighteen-year old former Iraqi soldier known for CIA purposes as James Paschal. It seems James defected from the Iraqi army for personal reasons (right, he's gay) and he might or might not have secret military information the CIA wants. He also might or might not be  a member of the Red Jihad terrorist group.<br />The plot thickens when Alex and Peter take James to his first gay bar and then all hell breaks loose. Naturally, Alex in his pursuit of Truth, Justice and the American Way again manages to screw almost everything up....<br />While this is not the best book in the series, it is still an enjoyable read and I recommend it to both new and old fans of the series. Right now,  I'm looking forward to Alex, Peter and Jean's next adverture, which still could be Presidential Pansies.	2001-10-10
US	51183270	R1C3K1O8WS18Q	0312266839	145776538	Sex and Murder.com: A Paul Turner Mystery (Paul Turner Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	ONE OF THE BEST IN THE PAUL TURNER SERIES	Far be it from me to disagree with Publisher's Weekly, but I thought MrZ did an outstanding job with his latest entry in the Paul Turner mystery series. I couldn't put it down and I finished it two days! That's what I call an action page-turner.<br />Paul and his partner, Buck Fenwick, are faced with figuring out the murder of  Chicago's version of the wealthy and powerful computer genius. As they investigate the victim's death and life, the murders continue and the crime becomes more perverse and sexually sordid. <br />Then to complicate matters, a serial killer appears to be working his way west eliminating top police detectives. Chicago is his next stop and Turner and Fenwick are prime candidates for becoming his next victim. Oh, and by the way, his M.O. just happens to be the same as that used in the computer murders. Are the two crimes connected? Will Paul and Buck find the killer/killers before he/she/they find them? If you're like me it won't take a lot of time to discover the answer. I stayed up until 2:30 doing that, and I had the serial killer narrowed done to two characters.<br />Fortunately and/or unfortunately, the domestic details of Paul's life are at a bare minimum this time. The kids are becoming  just too perfect -- all nice and goody-goody. I think the next book will be time for Jeff to show his bad boy side. Sure I know he's the one in the wheelchair, but that would be the unexpected twist!  <br />And for all you Buck Fenwick fans, his gallows humor and macabre wisecracks are at their groaning and enjoyable worst!	2001-08-21
US	51183270	R3AJ82ULDSWF6H	0061097837	739801441	Murder on the Gravy Train	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A MUST READ FOR FOOD NETWORK  AND RESTAURANT REVIEW ADDICTS!	OK, I admit it, I'm a junk food junkie and my dining out usually usually takes me to only the finest four star workaurants. But that doesn't stop me from reading and salivating over every restaurant review I see. The same goes for most of the programs on The Food Network!  So naturally, Phyllis Richman's book was written for me and me alone. (OK, you can read it, too!)<br />To get down to the basic facts, Chas Wheatley is a food critic for a D.C. newspaper who just happens to leave a trail of dead bodies behind her as she eats her way from one four star restaurant to the next. Realizing that something is rotten in the Danish, she sets out to solve the culinary crime capers that are being served up around her.<br />Ms. Richman is a very witty writer and I enjoyed her bright and gossip-filled style. I also enjoyed all the insider tips on the behind the scene secret going-ons of restaurant operations that she adds to her story telling!  And I always thought the stories of the White Castle pickle barrel were an urban myth.<br />Once you get a taste of this book you'll probably be buying the other books in the series just like I'm doing.	2001-08-19
US	51183270	R2UB762D7ZH03P	1902852095	370740927	Fatal Shadows	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	WELCOME TO A NEW GAY LA SLEUTH!	According to the cover of this book FATAL SHADOWS is the first in a new series of Los Angeles murder mysteries featuring Adrien English. Mr. English, who has &quot;heart problems&quot; both physical (tremors) and emotional (near celibacy), owns a small Pasadena book store which has the largest collection of gay and gothic mysteries in Los Angeles.<br />The mystery begins with him becoming the chief suspect in the brutal murder of his life long friend and temporary employee, Robert Hersey. Naturally, (and isn't this always the case) one of the detectives gives him heart tremors (in more ways than one). <br />Soon he finds out that other friends and former classmates are being killed or are already dead. It's obvious that he is the next one on the killer's stab list. Thinking that the police are more interested in proving he is the killer rather than discovering who really is, he sets out to unmask the murderer himself.<br />Adrien, his lifestyle and his world provide interesting possibilities for a new mystery series.  I enjoyed Lanyon's witty writing  very much and I look forward to future books. However, the author is not well served by the sloppy editing and/or production of the book. I was annoyed by what seemed to be strange typos until I realized that the non-words were really parts of two other words that had been joined together leaving out several lines of the story. It seems that someone should be proofreading the galleys a little closer if they want this series to get off the ground. Actually, I'm my own worst proofreader, so I usually have a friend do it.	2001-08-19
US	51183270	R39Q3HA8F3BYXD	067100302X	164220467	Drawing Dead	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A COOL CARD PLAYING COMIC BOOK CON CAPER!	Enter Joe Crow, an ex-cop in Minneapolis -- all he wants to do is cover is living expenses with his poker winnings. Sounds fairly simple until he gets involved with Dickie Wicky (a sleazy stockbroker who lives on booze and drugs), Catfish Wicky (his over-sexed wife from somewhere and/or everywhere), Joey Cadillac (a questionable Chicago car dealer and underworld don wannabee), Freddie Wisnesky  (Joey C's hitman and I do mean hit) and Tomas Campo (a.k.a. Thomas Jefferson and Tom Aquinas, a comic book con man on the run who will probably tell you that he really wrote this book). And this is just the start of the wild and wacky cast of characters and the multiple plots and subplots thatJoe runs into in this very funny novel.<br />If you love playing poker, reading comic books or just taking part in a who's conning who con game this is the book for you!  This book was my first expirence with Pete Hautman's writing, and now I've had to go out and buy the rest of his books. Once you read it, you'll probably have to do the same!	2001-08-10
US	51183270	R2H1HSQ6Z1BYBF	1575663929	593812596	Tippy Toe Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH LUCY STONE	A summer afternoon is the perfect time for enjoying the exploits of Tinker's Cove murder meddling sleuth Lucy Stone, and I recently decided to catch up with three such mysteries that have been sitting on my bookshelf waiting to be read. So along with a blanket and some refreshments I took the first (The Tippy Toe Murder) to Forest Park, the legendary birthplace of the hot dog, the ice cream cone and iced tea at the 1904 Saint Louis World's Fair.<br />Settling under a very shady tree, I opened the book to discover that the annual ballet recital of the Tinker's Cove Academy of the Dance had been scheduled for June 18. But before that can take place Caroline Hutton, the retire ballet instructor disappears.  Naturally Elizabeth and Sara, Lucy's daughters, are going to dance in the recital and Lucy is planning to videotape their rehearsal. Unfortunately, it seems that the Stone video camera is the only one in Tinker's Cove and Lucy is forever loaning it to someone. This time she has loaned it to Franny Small, and when Lucy goes to pick it up she discovers that it has been used to bash in the head of the town curmudgeon Morrill Stack. <br />Now with a missing woman and a murder, there's no way to keep Lucy from getting involved even though she is pregnant with her fourth child. As usual she is convinced the police have arrested the wrong person in the murder and she is determined to not only identify the murderer but also locate the missing woman both of which could have dire results for her. But when did that ever stop Lucy Stone?<br />Unfortunately in this book, the domestic violence/child abuse theme that runs through it gets in the way of the plot at times. Surely not every husband and wife in Tinker's Cove are abusing one another.  And while Lucy's husband Bill has always been a bit of a dolt and Maine's answer to the King of Siam, for Lucy to imagine him as a wife beater is a little heavy handed. Other than that, this book is a perfect summer reading adventure in the park or wherever you want to a lazy day.	2001-07-04
US	51183270	R231V6ALYIQWP	1575663309	201513742	Back to School Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	SUNDAY AT THE BARBECUE WITH LUCY STONE	As I said in an earlier review, summer afternoons are perfect for exploring the exploits of Tinker's Cove murder meddling sleuth Lucy Stone. So I decided to use my second of three books as an excuse to crash under the tree at the annual family burnt meat ritual. So while the pork steaks (a part of the pig known only to residents of Saint Louis) were slowly cooking on the grill I was quickly turning the pages of Leslie Meier's Back To School Murder. <br />The start of this adventure is a real blast - a high noon bomb blast at the grade school Lucy's daughter Sara attends. Luckily all the children escape injury including one who is rescued in the nick of time by assistant principal, Carol Crane. But within a couple of chapters she is rewarded for her heroism by being murdered. So, who done it? Was it Mr. Mopps, the school janitor, the high school science teacher, Lucy's night school English professor, or the sleazy minister?  As usual Lucy is convinced the wrong person has been arrested for the murder and so she sets out to solve the crime herself.<br />Two complications to Lucy's solving the crime as well as being able to meet her husband's demands for having dinner on the table at six sharp each day have been added in this book. First, she has become a part-time working mother (at the Pennysaver weekly newspaper) and second she has returned to college. But we all know that this won't stop her from discovering the identity of the murderer at the end of this very enjoyable book. Only this time I was at least a chapter or several pages ahead of her sleuthing abilities.	2001-07-04
US	51183270	R33VVQRHKLF99X	1575668459	356579320	Can't Buy Me Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	HOW TO SUCCEED IN THE OLDEST BUSINESS AND STILL FIND LOVE!	First off, stop reading this review and rush to add CAN'T BUY ME LOVE to your shopping cart. I don't say that for the benefit of amazon.com, but because I want to share the best fun read that I have had in a long time. It made me smile, chuckle and even laugh out loud. And all along the way I was rooting for the narrator in his struggle to best the fickle fingers of fate.<br />The book, a fictional autobiography of Jack Thompson, takes you through ups and downs of a spoiled rich gay Denver boy who becomes a spoiled kept boy who becomes a penniless widowed boy who becomes a family castaway who becomes a welfare recipient who becomes a gay escort for pay who becomes a hustler who becomes a male madam (sorry escort entrepreneur) who becomes a video porn model who becomes a -- well, if I told you any more I'd be giving away the whole story and you should have the pleasure  of reading that yourself. Now, I don't want to give the impression that this is a wet and messy tell all sexcapade; my mother would be able read book without batting an eye. (Sorry, if that's what you were looking for, but try this one anyway; you'll still enjoy it.)<br />Chris Kenry is a real find in this his debut novel, and he has created some original and interesting characters. At times I was even reminded of some of Patrick Dennis' best work. However, since I read this book so fast, I'm really looking forward to his next novel or better yet novels.	2001-06-17
US	51183270	R11V246WUI6U38	031226917X	338720913	Boy Toy (Mark Manning Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	MARK MANNING'S LATEST WHO, WHAT, WHERE, WHEN AND HOW DONE-IT	Domesticity and family life are paying off for Michael Craft's journalistic sleuth, Mark Manning. So far, each book in the series has been better than the one proceeding it. And BOY TOY, the sixth book, is the best yet.   Having left Chicago two episodes ago, Mark traded his career as a big-city reporter for that of owner/publisher (and as Charles Oakland) staff reporter of the Dumont (Wisconsin) Daily Register. His &quot;family&quot; began in the fourth book of the series when he gained a nephew/ward, Thad Quatrain; and in the fifth book his long-time lover, Neil Waite joined them when he transplanted his architectural business from Chicago to Dumont. Rounding out the family members in an &quot;extended&quot; way there are: long time friend and lawyer Roxanne Exner, housekeeper Barb Bilsten, Sheriff Doug Pierce, Register trends editor Glee Savage, managing editor Lucy Haring and Thad's could be girlfriend Kwynn Wyman.<br />BOY TOY opens on stage at the Dumont Players Guild production of &quot;Teen Play.&quot; Thad Quatrain, now 17, is sharing the lead role with Jason Thrush. There is little love between the two, and after a rehearsal altercation Thad has the final word by paraphrasing the play's first act curtain line, &quot;You might not live until opening night. Remember, I'll be waiting in the wings.&quot;<br />Naturally, Jason turns up dead on opening night and Thad is everyone's first choice for murderer. In order to protect his nephew, it is up to Mark and crew to sort through the double handful of possible suspects and solve the mystery. Which he does after a lot of rapid reading and page turning. I loved this book even though I picked the wrong person as the murderer, and you should, too! <br />Since moving to Dumont, the Mark Manning mysteries have become more believable. The mystery in the last book centered around Sheriff Pierce; in this book it was Thad Quatrain; that leaves a lot of the supporting cast available for future episodes. And I can hardly wait!	2001-06-11
US	51183270	R3IKDVGMC7GJ1B	1555834795	436373944	Fabulous Hell: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	FABULOUS? WELL, NOT QUITE.	I really don't want to give credence to Quentin Crisp's back cover blurb calling this novel a wonderful, remarkable portrait of modern gay life. It is an extremely interesting story, but if FABULOUS HELL represents gay life today, I want to call it quits! But then, that's what the unnamed narrator of this tale tries to do throughout the novel.  He's a very likable character who could probably succeed at anything he ever tried, if he only put in the effort. But he seems determined to fail in all jobs and relationships because of the ghosts that haunt his life - childhood sexual abuse, a wicked stepfather, a hands-off mother and an HIV infection -- all good excuses in his opinion to speed up his end with excess drink and drugs.<br />Being a firm believer in the Scarlet O'Hara way of life, I kept hoping for him to get out of the gutter and get on with life. And maybe he does or doesn't; that's something for each individual reader to decide at the end of the story. I enjoyed the book, and I encourage everyone to give it a try.<br />However, I have one complaint with the author. You see, I'm from Missouri, and the author/narrator seems to have an extremely a low opinion of the intelligence and taste of people from Missouri. I just want to let him know that not all the queers from here are dazzled by Vegas glitz. Actually, Nebraska or Iowa would be a better state to use.	2001-06-05
US	51183270	R1TNB4HFFXJ41Q	0967242002	998847817	A Slip to Die For: A Stud Draqual Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A.K.A. VICTOR/VICTORIA'S SECRETS	I knew was in for a trashy read as soon as I opened this book. The first giveaway was the 32 point Dick and Jane primer typeface. The second was two murders within the first three pages, where the victims were discovered wearing exorbitantly expensive &quot;Draqualian&quot; silk slips.  Both of the victims were men.<br />The luxurious intimates the dead men were wearing are traced back to Stud Draqual, the &quot;Prince of Silk Nighties&quot; who is probably the only man in the book that doesn't wear the unique lingerie he designs and sells. In addition to his profession, Stud's physical attributes...a too finely chiseled face, too thick, dark and long eyelashes, too purple eyes, too bee-stung lips, too slight physique and too tiny penis...all contradict his name. And naturally everyone in the book, including his shrink, thinks he is gay. Too, too, too much since the love of his life is his hand. The book is subtitled &quot;A Stud Draqual Mystery,&quot; but the only mystery seems to be Stud, himself.<br />The book is full of plot holes, sexual innuendoes and unbelievable dialog; in other words, it has everything a good trashy book needs!	2001-05-27
US	51183270	R2NZ0ZL6JZMPSD	0553578618	623239424	The Limits of Justice (Benjamin Justice Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	WHEN IS FATE GOING TO QUIT KICKING SAND IN JUSTICE'S FACE?	I actually put off reading this latest visit to the &quot;dark and depraved&quot; world of Benjamin Justice for six months because, frankly, he's a very depressing drunk. So far, I have faithfully followed him through SIMPLE JUSTICE and REVISION OF JUSTICE waiting for an end to his ten-year self-imposed banishment from life to mourn the AIDS death of lover Jacques while attempting to atone for the mistake he made that ruined his career. Finally, I figured things were looking up for Ben in JUSTICE AT RISK. But fate and author John Morgan Wilson had more dastardly things in store for him by the end of that adventure...a forced HIV infection and the paralyzing stoke that put his mentor Harry Brofsky into a nursing home. That brings us to THE LIMITS OF JUSTICE, which I finally picked up and couldn't put down!<br />The book opens with the death of Harry Brofsky, the end of Justice's six-month affair with Cuervo Gold, his continued physical deterioration from HIV and a knock on his door. The person doing the knocking is Charlotte Preston, daughter of the late Hollywood action hunk Rod Preston. Someone has written a sleazy exposé biography of her father, and she wants retaliate by hiring Justice to ghostwrite a smear of the biographer. Justice banks his advance on the project, but before he can begin work on it he discovers Preston's dead body. The coroner says suicide, but Justice knows it was murder! Naturally, his journalistic tendencies force him to continue his investigation...an investigation that will take him from the homes of the Hollywood rich and famous to the squalor of hustler bars in Tijuana. <br />Disproving my initial reservations, the book was actually a very interesting read. However, I must be becoming jaded and depraved in my old age, I surmised all the shocking surprises and &quot;the twisted perversions and crimes almost too horrible to believe&quot; long before author Wilson even got around to describing them. (Okay, so I thought the dismemberment murder was part of the cover-up.) Anyway, things are looking up for Justice again, and I can't wait for fate to step back in and slap him around for the next installment. I enjoyed the book and you should, too!	2001-05-23
US	51183270	R1A73S4QP7BMSR	089296717X	433297814	Bad News (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	THE GOOD NEWS IS &quot;BAD NEWS&quot;	Finally, after five long years, Dortmunder is back along with his ever-loving May and his sidekicks-in-crime Andy Kelp, Tiny Boucher, Stan Murch and Murch's Mom. &quot;So, who's Dortmunder,&quot; you ask? Well, where have you been for the past quarter of a century?  He's just main character in the most hilarious crime caper series ever created. He's...well, actually, the author tells you everything you need to know about the character in the opening line of this book. &quot;John Dortmunder was a man on whom the sun shown only when he needed darkness.&quot; <br />Things always seem to go wrong whenever Dortmunder plans the perfect crime. And rest assured, as you might expect author, Donald E. Westlake, has invented new and side-splitting ways for things to go wrong during this visitation.  John Dortmunder is your basic professional (or unprofessional) breaking and entering artist, a.k.a. burglar. So how does your basic burglar end up in the middle of con caper digging up the remains of a long dead Native American, a.k.a. Indian? <br />Well, it's probably because he didn't get the thousand bucks for the cameras he was stealing from the Speedshop before he got locked in the optical department. And that all takes place in the first few pages of this new page-turner. <br />Dortmunder fans will really enjoy this new adventure. And yes, there is the mandatory visit to O. J. Bar and Grill on Amsterdam Avenue where the discussion of &quot;the regulars&quot; centers on the names of Santa's reindeer and the seven dwarfs. If you're not a fan, get this book and you soon will be! <br />As for author, Donald E. Westlake (a.k.a. John B. Allan, Tucker Coe, Curt Clark, Timothy J. Culver, Morgan J. Cunningham, Samuel Holt and Richard Stark), I've been a fan for almost as long as he's been writing - which is almost, but not quite as long I I've been reading. The bad news about Bad News is I read it too fast and now I'll have to wait five years for the next Dortmunder!	2001-05-11
US	51183270	R24BUWFV44LMZ9	1555835058	810716284	Loves Last Chance: A Nigel and Nicky Mystery (Nigel and Nicky Mysteries)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Welcome a new pair of gay sleuths!	Since Love's Last Chance is both a romance and a mystery it takes a while for the plot to get rolling. The story opens with writer, Nigel Adams in his third year of the funk of the millennium. In order to get away from it all, he runs off to a villa in Tuscany, where he depletes the wine cellar while watching it rain every day.  Jeez, he's so depressing you find yourself shouting, &quot;Get a life.&quot; Actually, it takes the first third of the book before this begins to take place. The exotic Nicky (Nicholas Rosario di Medici Borja from the Spanish branch of the Borgia family by way of Guam) shows up at the villa one night and it is hate at first sight. With the help of Nonna, Nicky's grandmother, a relationship is sparked between them and they return to San Francisco where the mystery begins. <br />It seems that publishing heiress, Evelyn VanDeventer Iversen, has drowned while on a camping trip with her new, younger and poorer husband, who happens to be a bull-riding cowboy. Suspecting something out of the ordinary Annarita, her daughter and a college classmate of Nicky asks the pair to investigate.<br />Their investigations take them and their budding romance from the hills of San Francisco to Arizona and Utah. Along the way we meet studdly cowboys, truck-driving females and their co-sleuths, Matthew with his unending supply of adult-sized, kiddie-themed robes and pajamas and Thao, whose boxes of doughnuts will have you raiding the cupboard for midnight snacks.<br />Love's Last Chance was a very entertaining read, and I look forward to more Nigel and Nicky mysteries. As developed so far, the characters are very real and believable. They are fun and interesting and they have the potential for becoming the stars of a must read, gay mystery series.	2001-02-22
