US	51183122	R507NUQ9EOP92	0140157654	273591516	Before Night Falls: A Memoir	Books	5	11	11	N	N	"Transcending The Particularities of Sexual Orientation"	Despite coming from a poor rural background, Reinaldo Arenas [1943-1990] was successful in having studied at Universidad de La Habana and later worked in the prestigious Biblioteca Nacional [National Library]. At bitter, even dangerous odds with the Revolutionary regime in Cuba both politically and on account of his open homosexuality, Arenas was expelled from Cuba in 1980 [during the Muriel Exodus] and lived in New York City, with AIDS, until his suicide in 1990. Shamefully underrated in this country, Arenas published more than a dozen remarkable works, many of which are now available in English translation. <br /> <br />Arenas's highly acclaimed autobiography, BEFORE NIGHT FALLS, adapted to the large screen with the brilliant Spanish actor Javier Bardem in the title role, is a work that has all the resonance of true art and thus transcends the particularities of the artist's sexual orientation. What we have instead is a painfully honest portrait of intimacy and the insights its gives the reader are into the universal human condition. Arenas has the stunning ability [as seen in his fictional novel FAREWELL TO THE SEA, 1982] to reach out for the deepest frequencies of the heart, for those elusive qualities of the spirit... if you will. Arenas is exhilarated by life's realities and is excited by merely being alive. A large measure of that exhilaration, I'm convinced from a careful reading of his short stories and poetry, emanates from the thinking life, the life of reveries and of intimate reflection. As much drama takes place in the writer's mind as in his external life. Thinking and reflecting are keenly stimulating for this extraordinarily beleaguered artist. This autobiography is shocking and agonizing, but also vibrant and insightful, jubilant and witty ... and perhaps most reflective of the writer's multiplicity of moods, consistently rebellious to the core.  <br /> <br />Arenas's language is poetically eloquent. His is an art structured from and upon his own honesty and his unusual experiences ... not from clever word play or verbal pyrotechnics. Arenas deals in reality-facing and he addresses this reality with a special rhetoric of a kind of spiritual sensibility and a unique voice [rather bold for Latin American literature], thus transforming the real into a vision of what's true and honest, what's possible, what's beautiful. But of course, he committed suicide to end it, didn't he? In every sense of the term, Arenas's expressed passions are a humanist's vision that is earned and authenticated in his writing, one that all readers can feel and experience. I agree with reviewer Grady Harp, himself an outstanding poet, when he stated some time ago that Arenas wrote with a depth of \\"truth and observation that exudes Magical Realism.\\" It was L. Frank Baum [THE WIZARD OF OZ] who remarked, \\"There ARE strange creatures in this forest. But are they ALL wild?\\" Arenas is highly recommended reading! <br /> <br />Alan Cambeira <br />author of Azucar's Sweet Hope...Her Story Continues. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-29
US	51183122	R2DQ6RIYAJIHYR	0738208205	144001530	The Turkish Lover	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An Ode To Love	Esmeraldo Santiago continues being captivating and at the same time totally refreshing. It is mainly because of her wonderful literary skill: distinctively interwoven poetic lyricism, rhapsodic narrative and rhythmic dialogue. Santiago's prose flows with a ready elegance, yet it has a seductive element that is quite subtle. She speaks for many young Latina women when she daringly exposes her vulnerability to the traditional and often overwhelming horrors of an abusive machismo ... whether boricua, dominicano, mexicano, Turkish or Anglo-Saxon. Ultimately, she triumphs gleefully with the astute realization that \\"there's always another train on the way.\\" <br /> <br />THE TURKISH LOVER, unquestionably like the previous offerings from this powerfully talented writer, is certain to touch the lives of many of her readers. This latest work by Santiago is a joyous ode to love itself.  Te felicito, hermana. <br /> <br />Alan Cambeira <br />author of Azucar's Sweet Hope...Her Story Continues.	2005-05-25
US	51183122	R2BD0D89QV3X3M	1400041147	873250864	The Dew Breaker	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Framing The Unmasterable, Memoried Past	Danticat is enormously good for us, especially now. She reminds us of the beautiful literary spirit of Haiti... much like that glorious cadre of revolutionary Haitian women literary figures Ghislaine Charlier, Jan J. Dominique, Nadine Magloire, and of course Marie Chauvet and more recently Myriam Chancy. Exquisite writers all. Danticat, like her sisters, reminds us of the rich literary legacy that truly celebrates all that is beautiful about this much maligned and misunderstood country. Danticat herself, in my view, is an accident of literary privilege, a formidably keen observer or witness to events that have happened or to what is currently happening. This story, The Dew Breaker, while a horribly true tale of interwoven lives connected gruesomely by the &quot;beast&quot;, actually chose her; she is the extremely gifted and talented vessel that serves to receive this story.<br />Is there redemption for the protagonist, the shoukèt laroze himself? I don't know. Perhaps even Danticate isn't quite certain. The protagonist, an ultimately pathetic soul, is caught up in a nightmarish episode of reality --as is all of Haiti. As his daughter peels away the layers of his humanity, penetrating ever so deeper into his tortured soul to see just who he is, she too (like us) arrives at the point of moral ambiguity about her father. The skillful artistry in Danticat actually tortures us with this sense of indefiniteness ... which is what all excellent writers often do, of course. With measured steps,the author takes a daring literary plunge into the often risky arena between the short story and the novella. She triumphs wonderfully. In telling a painfully good story, Danticat presents us with real people agonizing in their search for answers, explanations and understandings. M' pa di passé ça.<BR>Definitely recommended reading.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2004-04-17
US	51183122	RX3D9PIHAN57E	0452277078	698137584	The House on the Lagoon	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Stunning Intertextuality	Rosario Ferré is without doubt a formidable writer with broad literary formation (holding a doctorate in Latin American literature) and impressive versatility in genres: short story, poetry, essay, novelist. She joins that welcomed and exciting cadre of Latina writers who skillfully articulates profound feminist concerns in their respective societies. In THE HOUSE ON THE LAGOON, Ferré presents two of her constantly recurring themes that form the core of her literary trajectory: Puerto Rican reality past and present ... the agonizing socio-psychological consequences produced by the unique historical-political-economic link to the United States; and Latina feminism accompanied by society's ugly prejudicial response. This story offers a highly critical view of Puerto Rican society with a bold reinterpretation of her island's history. As in all her tales and essays (as she herself has revealed) there is a thinly veiled autobiographical reflection. Ferré crafts a stunning literary language that expresses itself via surreal images similar to those that characterized the vanguard writers and visual artists of the opening decades of the twentieth century.  In Spanish we call the technique &quot;desdoblamiento&quot; -- the exposition or unfolding of images to narrate the events afflicting her protagonists. It perhaps functions more intensively in the original Spanish. But what results in essence is a mystical fusion of fiction and reality ... magical realism. This is a mesmerizing work by an extremely talented writer and is highly recommended.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2004-03-07
US	51183122	R3JHYQD2YJNFKC	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Existence Is The Word	By now, of course, the entire world is familiar with this stellar masterpiece that introduced Latin American literature to North American readers (last to join an already buzzing worldwide readership). The work has been translated even into languages like Quiché, Guaraní and Catalán. This unusual tale depicts the origins and ultimate demise of the mythical town of Macondo through the saga of the enigmatic Buendía family.  In this richly symbolic and multilayered chronicle of life and death -- with repeating names, endless revolutions and deluvial rains, lust, incest, death, a search for truth and a plague of menacing red ants-- we are witness to the magical realism that essentially defines Latin America in every regard.  To understand intimately Latin America is to understand the subtleties and wry humor of ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE.<br />This novel by Gabriel García Márquez, my absolute favorite author without exception, was first published in 1967 in Argentina under the title CIEN AÑOS DE SOLDEDAD, with the English translation appearing in 1970.  It must have been about 1972-73 when I first read the original Spanish version and became enraptured immediately by the brilliance of this masterful piece of Latin American fiction, the most unusually crafted and the most widely discussed/debated literary creation in several decades across Latin America. Since its initial success worldwide, this rare gem has seen accompanying study guides, essays, dissertations, seminars, related university courses, entire books authored by noted contemporary literary figures devoted to the subject of interpreting this novel as well as to the author's entire body of literary production. I recall once viewing (1985) a personal interview filmed by the author, \\"García Márquez está cansado de las equivocaciones de la crítica\\" [GM is tired of the errors of the criticism]. The artist himself set the record straight regarding what he intended in this monumentally ambitious tale.<br />Here in a nutshell for novice readers of Latin American literature translated into English are the preeminent themes running through this mystical novel: the interconnectedness of myth, reality, time and space; myth and history; the journey through the labyrinth of Latin American reality; the intertextuality of fiction and reality; a reality called \\"fiction\\"; the three levels of reality in one hundred years; violence and death as imaginary acts from a Latin perspective; man in search of himself in the surrealism of time and space; Macondo as a distinctive magical and Latin American domain; the fictionalization of history; the comic and carnivalesque; the subversion of time and space; geneological imperatives; the origins of Western civilization in Latin America; a portrait of Latin America: civilization vs barbarism; the Latin American novel as symbol of myth and archive; the tragic cylce and concept of collective identity and simultaneity; Latin American history as hieroglyphics; and perhaps finally ... the myth of apocalipse and human temporality.<br />Gracias, Oprah, for bringing to the eager attention of your book club readers this serious literary work intended to provoke thought and a profoundly important classic from my part of the world. Next, please allow them to be equally seduced by the likes of Isabel Allende, Marise Condé, René Depestre, Luz Argentina Chiriboga or Earl Lovelace.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2004-03-07
US	51183122	R329UWTKJJ27HS	1888033002	724656127	War songs: Metaphors in clay and poetry from the Vietnam experience	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Brilliant Vessels of Hope	I am convinced that Grady Harp's virtues as a poet are extraordinary. Through his fearless language and bold imagery, Harp's reality of war (but also of peace) becomes its acquired life.  Just twenty poems --yet powerfully and beautifully crafted in unique synthesis with Stephen Freeman's exquisite pottery -- remind us of the preciousness of human life itself, irrespective of whether that life is friend of foe.  These twenty reflective poems are agonizing, torturous, admirable, compelling.  I cried more than once. Still, I've told myself that I shall treasure this collection by Grady Harp and return often to it in order to remind myself of my gradual deepening confidence in the human spirit.  This is a triumphant little book.	2004-01-28
US	51183122	R1M9SK35TWF0G1	1400041341	205915316	Living to Tell the Tale	Books	5	53	64	N	N	An Amalgam of Marquezian Genius	Thankfully, volumes of scholarly papers will continue to be written, seminars and graduate-level university courses will continue to be developed focusing upon this literary giant --and deservingly so. We are all the more priviledged as beneficiaries of this extraordinary talent. Garcia Marquez writes with the simplicity, serenity, ease and purity that are the mark of an absolute master. His ingenius combination of grace and vibrancy is astonishing. With this new offering, Living to Tell the Tale [Vivir Para Contarla], it all comes together in this long-anticipated personal account of one of the world's remaining literary treasures. The imagery of Garcia Marquez, my all-time favorite writer, is breathtakingly superb. Here we have an exquisite amalgam of Marquezian genius: all the fabulous characters, descriptions and locales we have come to know and cherish from the full range of his fiction. I couldn't agree more with those insightful reviewers  who wishly urge for anyone new to Garcia Marquez a necessary reading of several of his important novels prior to indulging in this glorious triumph: \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude,\\" \\"Love in the Times of Cholera,\\" \\"No One Writes to the Colonel,\\" and \\"The General in His Labyrinth.\\" And for anyone able to read the original Spanish version is indeed for a sublime treat. Don Gabriel, mil gracias de nuevo; you are Humanity's Gift to the World!<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-11-26
US	51183122	R4B5B4A59OQ67	0060085894	483913583	Frida: A Biography of Frida Kahlo	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Seminal Study on Enigmatic Personality	This is an extremely important, long overdue and commanding work on one of the most significant artistic personalities of the 20th century. The author, Hayden Herrera, is perhaps one of the few best qualified writers to present this indepth, intense penetration into the tumultuous life and work of such a complex figure in the art world. Frida Kahlo, as readers/viewers in the United States by now are aware, created some of the most unconventionally brilliant --even shocking works of arts the world has seen. Herrera's impeccable scholarship and research skills are impressive and at the same time delicately compassionate and vibrant. The movie version, by the way, was wonderful and Salma Hayek was amazing in the lead role. Thank you Hayden; thank you Frida! Absolutely spectacular subject.<br />Alan Cambeira<br />Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-11-18
US	51183122	R224PCUG02F8SB	B0000BYPNF	278415393	The Feast of the Goat: A Novel	Books	5	59	65	N	N	A Contemporary Classic	Mario Varlgas Llosa is easily on my personal list of all-time Great Latin American Authors. I have been an avid fan for quite some time and have read several of his masterpieces: La ciudad y los perros (1960), the novel that launched his literary career and caused a sensation in the literary world when it was published ... and initiated the second phase of the \\"boom\\" in Latin American literature; la casa verde (1964); Conversacion en la Catedral (1964); and La verdad de las mentiras (1990). The current THE FEAST OF THE GOAT (La Fiesta del Chivo) is written with an insurmountable rhythm and precision that is classic Vargas Llosa. Those of us who lived during the unbelievably nightmarish Tujillo Era and in the ghoulish shadow of the Dictador under Balaguer (especially the infamous \\"12 Years\\") recall all too well the ruthlessness of this beast. The author handles ingeniously the characterizations and events of the period. And therein lies the mastery of this political-socially astute and innovative writer: his expanded concept of reality and his precepts about literature being born of a reality that is actually lived. This story is powerful. In honestly, however, I take serious issue with Vargas Llosa in that he does not give appropriate credit to a few present-day Dominican literary giants like Frank Moya Pons, Bernardo Vega, Roberto Cassa, and Jose Michel Cordero ... for their already published, widely respected historical research [upon which most every writer draws for accurate historical perspective] on the subject. Only a Vargas Llosa, I suppose, has the literary supremacy to pull it off so cleverly. Nevertheless, this is a novel that will enlighten the reader about the last days of the Trujillo Era and the psyche of \\"el Chivo\\"...goat. Pay very close attention to the quite, unassuming poet-president. Vargas Llosa is a priceless literary treasure.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-11-06
US	51183122	RIJOS2LQIEB5M	0679756760	256365950	When I Was Puerto Rican	Books	5	39	41	N	N	A Gift From Santiago	A joyful and proud eulogy to the island of her youth. Santiago is a wonderfully talented voice that exudes passion. The title alone, When I WAS Puerto Rican, is at first intriguing. But we soon learn the profound sense of this past tense usage. I read Santiago's memories in Spanish, which, in my view presents her story in a distinctive poetic prose, rhythm and rhapsody (often characteristic in Spanish) that is absolutely captivating. However, what is most appealing about this autobiogaphy, interwoven delightfully with memorable and richly detailed anecdotes, is the moving revelation that Santiago shares with her readers who don't know what it means to be caught in the agonizing web of dual-identities/dual-allegiances that is largely the Puerto Rican Experience ... as well as other North American immigrant experiences. This writer has presented us with a lyrical gift of enormous joy. High on the list of Must-Read novels, especially those by the new cadre of Latina writers. If you haven't as yet seen the excellent movie version of the sequel to this novel, Almost A Woman, do so. Wanda de Jesus is brilliant in the lead role.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-11-03
US	51183122	RECLOTZSYZEPJ	0345451082	587114510	Beyond The Limbo Silence	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Beyond Fiction	The widely respected and extremely talented author of When Rocks Dance and Bruished Hibiscus, Elizabeth Nunez brings us another powerful, lyrically superb piece of writing in BEYOND THE LIMBO SILENCE. Among a growing list of gifted writers from Trinidad-Tobago, Nunez chronicles the agonizing personal struggles of Sara Edgehill as she leaves her native Trinidad for a Catholic women's college in radically different Wisconsin. But there's much more to this story than merely &quot;making cultural adjustments in a new environment.&quot; The author skillfully and brilliantly interweaves and delicately balances socio-politics and artistry into a bold intellectual defiance of literary convention by inviting the reader into the sometimes unfathomable mysticism of Caribbean reality. And what better historical vehicle to employ than the explosive dynamics of the 60s? I have had the pleasure of hearing Ms Nunez speak before a live university forum and this story to me reads more like a stolen page from her own life that she has chosen to share with us than a fictional account of a young girl experiencing college life in a faraway land. this is vigorously commanding storytelling which I admire greatly. This is a MUST READ novel.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of Azucar! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-10-26
US	51183122	R3IF4E0PFDUZQP	1591298741	725634923	Le Fin (Lambert)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	&quot;The Big Screen Awaits&quot;	The long-awaited final episode, LE FIN, of Victoria Murray's Lambert Series closes the fun-filled romantic-suspense adventure of these remarkable characters. LE FIN is terrific -- just as tantalizing as the previous segments. All the characters and their intrigue stay with us. And Victoria, I know your're far too courageous to be dispirited by your distractors. I also am certain that the Big Screen awaits the Lambert Series.<br />Very Highly Recommended.	2003-10-21
US	51183122	R3I753O0XH33S3	1880684330	751832837	They Forged the Signature of God	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Intense Authenticity Woven Throughout	Imagine in modern times a novel so powerfully authentic that the author's very life is placed in danger. Or that having initially won the nation's prestigious National Fiction Award upon publication, the prize is immediatley snatched away by the President because of its perceived personal offense to that president. What serious reader of good literature could possibly resist such excitement (however frightening) surrounding a first novel? Such is only part of the sordid history of Viriato Sencion's sensational novel They Forged the Signature of God. <BR>The story is straightforward and uncomplicated. It narrates the maturation of three seminary students as they try to understand life against the nightmarish socio-political backdrop dominated by the monstruous dictator Tirano and his enigmatic cohort and successor Dr. Mario Ramos. The author skillfully incorporates real-life individuals and places under fictitious names. Thus, it isn't difficult to unmask Tirano as the diabolical and ruthless dictator Rafael Leonidas Trujillo, Ramos as Dr. Joaquin Balaguer, and the nameless Caribbean island-nation is the Dominican Republic. The student Arturo is Sencion's own alter ego. But we must be careful not to catagorize this novel as either a political expose or political biography; it is more correctly a brilliantly crafted and unique artistic text. The author's only dilemma, I suggest, is the problematic element of fusing literature and reality. The striking dominance of authenticity seduces the reader into sharing the intensity of &quot;lo dominicano&quot; --that is, the Dominican Experience in all its essence and intensity. Sencion, for example, effectively captures the language and its distinct subtleties of orality as spoken and heard on the Island. For this reason among many others, I personally preferred the original Spanish version [Los que falsificaron la firma de Dios, 1992]. I agree totally with the renown Dominican intellectual giant and literary critic Silvio Torres-Saillant when he observes that &quot;Sencion's artistry is one of the most important contributions in recent years to Dominican Letters.&quot; Sencion's prose resonates in elegance. <BR>A Highly Recommended Novel.<br />Alan Cambeira, Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-10-16
US	51183122	R31QE2REMQMKF9	0385476337	203368671	Crossing the Mangrove	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Conde: The Classic Literary Maroon	The reader must not readily assume (quite a mistake) that this is a conventional detective mystery, even one with Caribbean cadences. Far from being so. Rather, this is an exhilarating celebration of the intricate balancing of the complexities of cultural diversity in the region. Without equal, Conde is both brilliant and powerful in presenting an honest portrait of Caribbean society, most particularly the richness of the Guadeloupean society. The murdered stranger, Francis Sancher, is symbolic of the long history of the Caribbean itself: the influential, intrusive &quot;outsider&quot; that serves as catalyst for change. But be careful; Sancher is not the central character here. If one reads all of Conde's novels together (an experience well worth the time), one observes a fascinating personal evolution in setting, form, artistry, and content: from Africa, the United States and the anglophone Antilles, then finally to the francophone zone. This geographical movement parallels precisely the author's emotional/psychological journey back to her native Guadeloupe. Conde is the classic literary maroon, so central, in my opinion, to the Caribbean literary tradition: while promoting independence for others, she simultaneously claims it for herself. She, by the way, is a longtime supporter of independence from France of the entire francophone territories. As a writer, Conde definitely heads the list of the region's most stellar and talented. All her novels are MUST READ works.<br />Alan Cambeira, Author of  AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-10-12
US	51183122	R26YEO7MNXYQ18	0892552727	334414541	The Dragon Can't Dance: A Novel (Karen and Michael Braziller Books)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A  Luminous Portrait	In Earl Lovelace, without exception, we have the Master Storyteller of the Caribbean. Even years after its publication (1979 and 1998), &quot;Dragon&quot; remains peerless as an authentic, forceful voice of postcolonial Trinidadian society. Nowhere else have the intricacies of carnival been more profoundly explored and dissected than here by the artful mastery of prose in this defining portrait. Lovelace's stinging critique of race and politics is poignant and luminously presented. With heavy symbolism and sensitivity, the story reaches successfully beyond Caribbean life to touch the larger human condition itself. The central figure of Aldrick (whose &quot;mission&quot; is to performa the Dragon dance during carnival) embodies a entire people's frustrations and aspirations. This is an unexaggerated powerful tale by one my absolute favorite Caribbean writers. This story is timeless and one of Lovelace's best creations, far surpassing, in my opinion, his other wonderful novels like &quot;The Wine of Astonishment&quot;, &quot;The Schoolmaster&quot;, or even &quot;Salt.&quot; Anyone sincerely interested in Caribbean culture and literature will find this novel indispensable reading.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-27
US	51183122	R2S0L38124Q3M8	0399151060	728441185	Remember When	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Lure of  Stolen Diamonds	The idea of stolen diamonds immediately lured me to this novel. I am just now being formally introduced to the suspense of award-winning author Nora Roberts. Quite frankly, I am thoroughly impressed with the talent of this very fine writer who has meticulously crafted a wonderful story. The characters are all amazingly real. Roberts manipulates time-lapses exceptionally well; this can be very tricky. I'm convinced that I have to read the other works in her series. <BR>Highly Recommended Read!	2003-09-21
US	51183122	R3E18FR2MRI053	1592869092	260739972	Whipped Pups of Bitterbrush	Books	5	5	6	N	N	&quot;Timely Work&quot;	M.D. Cummings is clearly a deeply compassionate and insightful writer. His moving story WHIPPED PUPS OF BITTERBRUSH exemplifies the depth of emphathy for one's fellow human beings. To suggest that an abusive childhood is extremely traumatic and potentially damaging psychologically is to engage in excessive understatement. But in this case, the writer is a skillful enough craftsman to avoid the usual stereotypes about abuse and the weighty dramatics often accompanying these kinds of stories. It is impressive artistry to see how the writer here is successful in achieving the outcomes he seeks. Annie and the other Whipped Pups become memorably inspiring characters. M.D. Cummings has written a socially timely work that impacts everyone of us in today's complex society. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. <BR>Very Highly Recommended!<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-16
US	51183122	RZMT074886XME	0375725490	704364204	Song of the Water Saints	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Resonates With Elegance	SONG OF THE WATER SAINTS is yet another stellar contribution to the fast-growing field of works by young escritoras dominicanas [Dominican women writers] of superior caliber and grace. Nelly Rosario, obviously undaunted by the number of novels that readily plunge the reader into the immigrant experience, adds an exciting new dimension. She clevery and artfully interweaves the delicate threads of myth, history, longing, and pain into a passionate tale of three generations of bold, intrepid Dominican women in search of their respective destinies. The interconnected stories of Graciela, Mercedes, and Leila are unforgettable. Rosario's irresistible prose reads like epic poetry; her style evokes imagination and a deep resonance of remembrance. This is a well-written novel that undergirds our continuing faith in the future direction of Latina Literature. Very Highly Recommended.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-13
US	51183122	R31PA1PQ3FR8PW	1573226068	907067822	Drown	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Sensibly Unapologetic and Seductive	This explosive collection of ten amazing stories vividly chronicling the Dominican immigrant experience is starkly realistic and daring. The stories are not necessarily pleasant, but are certainly captivating tales of the resilience of the human soul and of the will to survive in the face of horrendous odds. Diaz is intense and powerful, yet he possesses what I personally find to be a calculated calm in his mesmerizing prose. Moreover, he is totally unapologetic ---and that's a plus. I thoroughly enjoyed every piece in this stunning collection. Junot Diaz is at the top of my list. You are missing a rare literary experience if you fail to read him.<BR>Very Highly Recommended !<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-13
US	51183122	R27BEEO832MGM9	0140253718	169974271	Geographies of Home	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Unflinchingly Bold	GEOGRAPHIES OF HOME is riveting from start to finish. Loida Maritza Perez, in her evocative, attention-getting prologue alone, establishes a tone of richness and depth. What follows is a story well beyond conventionality. She presents a compelling tale that flows beautifully as if it were an intimate, personalized character analysis of members of a very complex family. The author has structured a work both mystical and convincingly realistic about a severely troubled Dominican family. Perez, in my opinion, is brilliant first, in creating complicated, authentic characters and then telling their stories with graceful, inventive language. The reader shares the horrors of contemporary migration with all its incumbent trauma. However, I suggest that it is the predominance of Caribbean spiritualism that gives this story its illusive, absolutely haunting character. Loida Maritza Perez is masterful at her craft. This novel will stay with you. Very Highly Recommended. Te felicito profundamente, Loida.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-13
US	51183122	R29G1P9EWVE802	1591298733	637901845	Friendly Enemies	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Another Success	Ms Murray has done it again! I've just finished the third installment in the Lambert series, FRIENDLY ENEMIES. The mystery and suspense are sustained artistically by the writer's refreshing talent. The character portrayals become even more sharply drawn here, with crispier descriptions and more clever nuances of focus. I too (like other anxious readers and devoted fans) am wondering about future adventures of Nouri and Clint, or maybe Nouri and Gabe. Nouri and Charles perhaps? From what we've already seen of Victoria Murray's talent for suspense-filled operetta, we can be certain that the writer has it very skillfully orchestrated. Bravo, Victoria. You know how to titillate your readers.<BR>Very Highly Recommended.	2003-09-10
US	51183122	RAWP360EXGZNJ	0743212029	514181106	Soledad: A Novel	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Exuberant Debut	I thoroughly disagree with those reviewers of Angie Cruz's debut novel who perhaps smugly dismiss her work as being &quot;a total mess,&quot; or &quot;not enough story.&quot; One reviewer boldly proclaimed that Cruz &quot;is no Gabriel Garcia Marquez.&quot; Well, really now!! Even to suggest that an initiate in the daunting art of this lofty genre must somehow (miraculously) immediately measure up to the accomplished mastery of a seasoned novelist of the rank and distinction of the Nobel Prize-winning Colombian writer Garcia Marquez or perhaps of the caliber of Chilean Isabel Allende is unreasonable at best. After all, these two writers par excellence eventually mastered their respective literary craft only after long years of painstakingly honing a (self-satisfying) writing style and ultimate artistry. Even skilled writers don't exactly tumble out of the womb being able to compose beautiful prose or poetry.<br />So, Angie Cruz joins the growing cadre of young, gifted writers such as Nelly Rosario and Loida Maritza Perez and others who, in time, will indeed garner the accolades and wider readership that Danticat, Alvarez, Conde, Junot Diaz, Esmeralda Santiago, and yes, Allende currently enjoy. Just give her time. Angie Cruz unquestionably knows the heart and soul of Washington Heights in upper Manhattan, home to thousands of dominicanos. She feels vividly the pulse and pace of these streets and the people there. Soledad's traumatic journey (an escape, actually) to downtown is memorable and quite believable. This is a provocative story, told with imaginative grace and power. All the characters are beautifully realized. Any suggestion of &quot;a disorganized plot&quot; is artistically and cleverly interwoven into the realistic, yet disorganized lives of the people who struggle to survive the harshness and ugliness of those mean streets. Y es facil, Ms Cruz?<BR>Highly Recommended Reading!<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar (a novel)	2003-09-10
US	51183122	R2SJWRZDPM1F2P	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Explorations Into Western Aesthetics	Imagine a murder committed in the world famous Louvre Museum in contemporary Paris ---the chief curator's body found beneath the immortal painting of the Mona Lisa. Then imagine yourself swept up and dropped amidst a secret society comprised of some of Western civilization's most illuminous artists and thinkers such as Da Vinci, Boticello, Sir Isaac Newton, and Victor Hugo, among others. The scope is epic in presentation. But that is exactly what the writer Dan Brown accomplishes with his stunning novel THE DA VINCI CODE. This is an extraordinary tale of suspense, exploring brilliantly the legendary mysteries of Western culture. The painstaking research obviously involved in this literary project is commendable. The writer artfully weaves his rich story within and around this historic and socioaesthetic context ---a daunting task in itself. Furthermore, he provokes rather subtly the reader by raising certain perhaps troubling issues of a clear religious nature. The main characters Sophie and Robert are immediately ensnarled in a world of high-level intrigue and sophisticated thrills. The reader is guaranteed a fascinating ride. Highly recommended novel by a talented writer.	2003-09-06
US	51183122	R2H8WQ1OB382BW	0521551250	79578077	Caribbean Poetics: Toward an Aesthetic of West Indian Literature	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;Significant Contribution&quot;	Torres-Saillant is an intellectual giant in any language. His erudition is carefully measured and presented with superb precision and clarity. Although for me, his scholarship illuminates brilliantly in his Spanish-language masterpiece EL RETORNO DE LAS YOLAS, his lengthy collection of personal essays that ponder the thorny issues of Diaspora and Dominican identity. But here in CARIBBEAN POETICS: TOWARD AN AESTHETIC OF WEST INDIAN LITERATURE, Professor Torres-Saillant departs boldly from a traditionally crowded camp of experts when he undertakes the ambitious task of demonstrating with splendidly relevant and representative literary figures a regionally unified and coherent socioaesthetic literature with is own distinct identity. His theory of Caribbean poetics is undergirded by a systematic examination of recurrent thematic motifs employed by Caribbean writers over decades. The regional exemplars he selects are Edward Kamau Brathwaite, from Barbados; René Depestre, from Haití; and Pedro Mir, from the Dominican Republic.<BR>In my estimation, Torres-Saillant far exceeds expectations in this difficult project. He is tremendously successful in achieving his objective: this work, as far as I am aware, is the first of its kind to date. Our scholar in this instance breaks away from the pack by rightfully transcending nationality, language, and race in accounting for the cultural diversity that undeniably characterizes the region. Normally, when we look at critical commentaries on Caribbean literature, we always see a myoptic concentration on a single linguistic sector --even when the presentation makes the assertion of being inclusive. Torres-Saillant, on the other hand, has an approach that is superior by a long shot in its significant contribution to comparative poetics. He meticulously articulates throughout this study how Caribbean literature has developed along a fascinating route vastly different from those of the literatures of the Western tradition and from themainland Latin American tradition. I especially applaud the Professor's clear implication of a multicultural approach to the study of world literature. His comprehensive bibliography alone is well worth this exciting reading. But then who would ever guess that the renown and scholarship of Silvio Torres-Saillant is a literary icon around my Dominican household and is absolutely required reading for anyone seriously interested in Dominican culture?<BR>Very Highly Recommended.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZÚCAR! The Story of Sugar	2003-09-02
US	51183122	R1U89GS014QZSO	1588515591	984149518	Thief of Hearts	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exceptionally Thrilling !!!!	Exceptionally Thrilling !!!<BR>I've begun Victoria Taylor Murray's four-book LAMBERT series and I must admit that if Thief of Hearts is a clear indication of what remains to be read, then I see what everyone is talking about regarding Ms. Murray's formidable talent as a storyteller. What a colorfully rich imagination! The wide assortment of characters are fully enough to seduce even the most jaded reader already accustomed to scandalous behavior and human reprehensiveness. This is indeed splendid reading. <BR>Very Highly Recommended!!!	2003-08-24
US	51183122	R1R0E6D6836IG6	1403370605	3181710	The Alley of Wishes	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Guaranteed Wonderful Read	I was genuinely moved by the character portrait of Ms Johnson's Beck Sanow, the seemingly dispirited, despairing frontline deserter from the American forces stationed in WWI France. Beck is memorable largely because of his eventual triumph over the emotionally painful scars and vicissitudes of his chosen course of action (my own perspective). Then, I think naturally complementing Beck's angst is the remarkably drawn portrait of Cerise, the equally scarred French bistro chanteuse [symbolically surnamed &quot;l'oiseau&quot; = &quot;bird&quot; and of course &quot;cerise&quot; is French for &quot;cherry&quot; = thus, two images of ready vulnerability if not properly and delicately handled]. I am convinced that the author is absolutely classic in her poetic lyricism here. It is no coincidence that together Beck and Cerise create a magnetized intensity: one offering the other vital dosages of hope and uplift. Their difficult love affair becomes the centerpiece of Ms Johnson's beautifully written story. The title itself is thoughtfully crafted to fit neatly into the overall flow of events; the result = a wonderful read.<BR>Highly Recommended !!!! <BR>Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of: AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar	2003-08-23
US	51183122	R1CHOEZ66SBRA	0345439104	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	117	126	N	N	Marvelous Pacing	DROWNING RUTH is deceptively clever. What seems initially like the conventional, usually predictable murder yarn turns out actually being a meticulously crafted story of considerable artistic merit. The circumstances of the drowning of Ruth's mother serves as the catalyst that precipitates an intriguing flow of interrelated events in the lives of Amanda (the drowned woman's sister) and her niece Ruth. Christina Schwarz is a wonderfully talented writer who has woven a rather intricate tale of psychological suspense. There are many engrossing trwists and digressions (but quite necessary) in this very emotional marrative. The mystery is sustained throughout because the reader, as if carefully and thoughtfully fitting together all the jagged pieces of a puzzle, learns in successive chapters what actually occurred that particular wintry night so long ago in the past of both Amanda and Ruth. The writer does a marvelous job in pacing the delicate unravelling of the knitting. This is a thoroughly enjoyable thriller.<BR>I recommend this book very highly.	2003-08-10
US	51183122	R2H9PY44G4MGAR	006054564X	957972911	My Invented Country: A Nostalgic Journey Through Chile	Books	5	23	33	N	N	An Eloquent Giant	Because Isabel Allende is one of my absolute favorite and most admired writers (bar none), I pride myself in having read all her published novels and stories --in the original Spanish, then the English translations. With the publication in 1982 of la casa de los espíritus [The House of The Spirits], Allende merged as one of the most important literary voices of her generation. Her works are characterized by a deliberate recurrence of certain pronounced elements: realism, family, history, fantasy. This delicately balanced admixture produces the fusion of realism and fantasy [el realismo mágico]--the artfully narrative world reminiscent of Alejo Carpentier and Gabriel García Márquez. Additionally, the predominance of female protagonists in her novels and stories is readily evidenced. Strong, independent, and intelligent, Allende's women know how to enjoy life and don't fear men in the least. Nor do these bold female protagonists allow themselves to be defeated by their circumstances --all this is quite revolutionary in Latin American literature. Totally, Allende's feminine perspective dramatically alters and enriches the horizon of contemporary Latin American fiction. So, any work by Isabel Allende is a treasure. She is an eloquent giant of a talent. MY INVENTED COUNTRY [Mi país inventado: un paseo nostálgico por Chile], while certainly not a work of fiction, is nevertheless very valuable in any Allende collection and worth reading.<br />Alan Cambeira<BR>Author of AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar	2003-08-08
US	51183122	R28IEYYLO9G8FQ	097285133X	4514086	Drowning Rapunzel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Genuine Gift	It was by accident (fortunate for me, however) that I came across Annette Gisby's SILENT SCREAMS, a truly well-crafted thriller. The story of Jessica and her traumatizing secrets is  cleaver and captivating to the very end. I admit that I was secretly waiting for the appearance of Ms. Gisby's DROWNING RAPUNZEL. Without question, this one is indeed masterful. The character Beth reminds me of the earlier traumatized victim (my own perspective) Jessica. But here the author has seemingly penetrated more deeply into the psyche of her characters, of course most particularly with Beth Gregory. Not only has the author given her protagonist &quot;a gift&quot;, but Ms. Gisby possesses an outstanding gift of her own for writing exciting thrillers.<BR>I highly recommend this novel.	2003-08-07
US	51183122	R5XNGXSG0S5RA	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Troubling Steinbeck Masterpiece	I have no earthly notion why Oprah selected a Steinbeck work of this magnitude and scope to resurrect her book club. However, maybe without Oprah's generous promotional efforts, this particular work by John Steinbeck (1902-68) might have remained the obscure and enigmatic masterpiece that it is. Keen movie buffs will recall the attempt some thirty-odd (or more?) years ago to convert this novel into a movie [executed appropriately in funereal black and white, instead of in dazzling color ... despite the sunny brilliance of California's Salinas Valley]. The brooding actor James Dean had the role of brother Caleb, who vies for the affection and approval of his father, played imperially by Anthony Quinn. The movie version was not at all a box-office success mainly because, in my view, the story was so amazingly intricate and overwhelming with its ponderously convoluted psychological elements. The same is true about the novel: multi-layered in approach, tone, and structure, resulting in constant nervous tension and anguish. But then who would dare argue with a giant of such innovative literary artistry as Nobel Prize (1962) winning author John Steinbeck? At some point shortly after after the initial publication of this novel (1952), Steinbeck himself publically alluded to the \\"difficulty\\" (e.i.,complexity) of this powerfully dramatic work. He was totally pleased with his creation. And difficult, indeed, is this novel. I know I'm dating myself, but so what? Does anyone remember those essential Cliff Notes that regularly accompanied literary Master Works? Well, there was one for EAST OF EDEN. Believe me, this handy little yellow booklet proved indispensable to some readers 'back in the day.' A Masterful Read, so enjoy.	2003-08-02
US	51183122	R1XRU3RO8UNVID	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	25	35	N	N	Troubling Steinbeck Masterpiece	I have no earthly notion why Oprah selected a Steinbeck work of this magnitude and scope to resurrect her book club. However, maybe without Oprah's generous promotional efforts, this particular work by John Steinbeck (1902-68) might have remained the obscure and enigmatic masterpiece that it is. Keen movie buffs will recall the attempt some thirty-odd years ago (or more?) to convert this novel into a movie [executed appropriately in funereal black and white, instead of in dazzling color ... despite the sunny brilliance of California's Salinas Valley]. The brooding actor James Dean had the role of brother Caleb, who vies for the affection and approval of his father, played imperially by Anthony Quinn. The movie version was not at all a box-office success mainly because, in my view, the story was so amazingly intricate and overwhelming with its ponderously convoluted psychological elements. The same is true with the novel: multi-layered in approach, tone, and structure, resulting in constant nervous tension and anguish. But then who would dare argue with a giant of such innovative literary artistry as Nobel Prize (1962) winning writer John Steinbeck? At some point shortly after the initial publication of this novel (1952) Steinbeck himself alluded to the \\"difficulty\\" (e.i.,complexity) of this powerfully dramatic work. He was extremely pleased. And difficult it most certainly is. I know I'm dating myself, but so what? Does anyone remember those essential Cliff Notes that regularly accompanied literary Master Works? Well, there was one for EAST OF EDEN. Believe me, this handy little yellow booklet proved indispensable to many readers 'back in the day.' A Masterful Read!	2003-08-02
US	51183122	RKC29PAOW41B9	0452274427	705687248	In the Time of the Butterflies	Books	5	142	152	N	N	A Literary Challenge	By means of the sharpened scalpel of fiction, Julia Alvarez carves and shapes the central characters in this difficult and delicate novel as subversive agents who see themselves obligated by fate to participate in the ultimate demise of an oppressive regime. Minerva, Patria, Mara Teresa, and Ded, each one in her distinct fashion, break through the tyrannical grip that holds sway over an entire island population for thirty-one nightmarish years. Alvarez is at her absolute best here, far surpassing the previously successful HOW THE GARCA GIRLS LOST THEIR ACCENTS. Even the more recent SALOM, in my view, doesn't come across as powerfully (especially for those readers unfamiliar with Dominican cultural history). IN THE TIME OF THE BUTTERFLIES is a masterful work that illustrates the perniciousness of political oppression in every aspect of a society, written in a language of turbulent calmness. As a Dominican myself who experienced first hand the unspeakable horrors of the Trujillo Dictatorship, I admit honestly that Alvarez has presented brilliantly the case of repression and heroism more formidably than any other writer. She has officially immortalized las hermanas Mirabal as national heroines.	2003-08-01
US	51183122	R2N66B3EYSYR4N	0140280499	487895309	The Farming of Bones	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Extraordinarily Artful and Highly Successful	Danticat's debut with BREAT, EYES, MEMORY was more than impressive; it was magical and eloquently resonant. It was the voice we'd all been waiting for. But with THE FARMING OF BONES, what we have is Danticat's finely-tuned clarity of vision reaching the heights of authentic folk art. This novel is unforgettably vibrant in every regard. Entire seminars and workshops have rightfully been organized and presented around this literary icon. Edwidge Danticat is the single topic of scholarly discourse everywhere you turn, whether nationally or internationally. In THE FARMING OF BONES the author has masterfully returned us to a particularly shameful and hideous moment in the history of the neighboring countries of Haiti and the Dominican Republic (sharing the Caribbean island called Hispaniola). <br />Dominican Dictator Rafael Leónidas Trujillo in 1937 ordered the slaughter of an estimated (historically documented) 40,000 Haitians and Domínico-Haitians living and working in the Dominican Republic. This historical incident is virtually unknown to outsiders and to most people not of that era. Danticate has thankfully unearthed enough skeletons form the unknown graves to awaken the interest of today's generation, wherever they reside. But this is also a profound love story like no other you've read. The young protagonists Amabelle Desir and Sebastian Onius allow themselves to experience an all-powerful love in a land where love itself had been vanquished by brutal terror and unbridled hatred. This is truly a novel that rewards he reader over and over with the message of a people's suffering and unbelievable courage. If you haven't read this novel, you are denying yourself a genuine literary treasure.	2003-08-01
US	51183122	R8T2INTT960Y6	1592865879	812482513	Big Ice	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Electrifying Suspense	Almost any story set in the nation's capital personally intrigues me. Such a setting usually promises unanticipated twists and high-energy excitement. BIG ICE therefore immediately hit the spot for me. I was drawn especially to the protagonist Seth because of the manner in which the author Christopher Bonn Jonnes artfully tackles the delicate inner psychological nature of this complicated character. This aspect fascinated me far moreso than the surface storyline, which was totally suspenseful. I'm sure most readers were able to identify quite readily with Seth. The author offers us a splendid work of nervous suspense and mystery. I definitely intend reading Jonnes's previously successful WAKE UP DEAD. A Very Highly Recommended Read.	2003-07-28
US	51183122	R2UYFUXSODFLOL	158851594X	45374405	Forbidden (The Lambert Series, Book 2)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Unbelievable Intensity	I just finished reading the second book in Ms. Murray's LAMBERT series, FORBIDDEN. The unique storyline is becoming more intense as I follow the outrageous actions of these unforgettable characters. This series promises to be more than meets the unsuspecting eye. FORBIDDEN as a romantic suspense is captivating mainly because the author skillfully avoids shallow, artificial contrivances. This story achieves success by seductively holding the attention of the reader through realistic and exciting portrayals. Murray is a highly imaginative writer. A Very Highly Recommended Read. !!!	2003-07-28
US	51183122	R1HYRAKHAC5PHU	1588515591	984149518	Thief of Hearts	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Exceptionally Thrilling	I've begun Victoria Taylor Murray's four-book LAMBERT series and I must admit that if Thief of Hearts is a clear indication of what remains to be read, then I see what everyone is talking about regarding Ms. Murray's formidable talent as a storyteller. What a colorfully rich imagination! The wide assortment of characters are fully enough to seduce even the most jaded reader already accustomed to scandalous behavior and human reprehensiveness. This is indeed splendid reading. Very Highly Recommended.	2003-07-28
US	51183122	R2LI8E0LW783WK	1563249367	639860561	Quisqueya la Bella: Dominican Republic in Historical and Cultural Perspective (Perspectives on Latin America and the Caribbean)	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Quisqueya La Bella: Provocative Interpretation	This is a collector's item which needs to be read and guarded carefully on the shelf of individuals seriously interested in the Caribbean. Actually, this book should be required reading for those making their first trip to the island. This book doesn't read like the conventional history text. It flows lyrically like the waves of the Caribbean itself. This personal perspective presents a wonderful, yet provocative and controversial interpretation of a culture that many people in the States know so little about.	2002-09-10
