US	51194429	R1F4HE2FELY26W	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Some Insight-but one sided and very chauvinistic	I echo the comments of one of the reviewers here...I wasn't that into the book.  In fact, I disliked the premise intently.  I am not one to place my faith in the way things ought to be which is what this book advocates.  Wishing and hoping etc plus $1.25 gets you a cup of coffee.  What am I to take away from this book anyway?  For the most part, the idea of leaving someone who obviously is not that into you (and is emotionally abusive) is a no brainer (but some people still need to be reminded hence the book has some value).  That is why the book gets two stars.  But please, what about the obvious opposite situation.  If the only men you should consider viable are the ones that treat you well, what about the men that get everything right and you are just not that into them? What do we do about them?  I guess women in general are so desperate for companionship and love, that we should accept it from anyone who offers.  But what if he is ugly or boring or lazy or gay (in need of a beard) or a serial killer or any myriad of other unattractive qualities other than how he treats you?  Guess what, that kind of relationship can be equally unsatisfying, but I guess Behrendt has never come across a woman that is not that into him. <br /> <br />Long story short, another book about the victimization of woman in a net of their own making.  Give the man that treats you like a human being all your power (especially your brain power) and you will live happily ever after.  Just don't give it to someone that doesn't want you.  See it's all so simple.	2005-01-14
US	51194429	R1SW8NPQW5H81C	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent--Engaging--Masterpiece!!!	I haven't been this enchanted by a book in quite some time.  There is a lot wrong with this book but it is indeed a masterpiece.  I was completely captivated by the plotting and characters.  I will be thinking about its implications for a long time.  This book is a triumph for Mary Doria Russell. <br />Random thoughts about the book (which in reality deserves an essay of analysis but...)<br />With the exception of anthropology, there really is no science applied in the book.  Those details are either highly simplified (Sophia's expertise) or just plain ignored (the asteroid ship for example).  Frustrating for a Sci Fi fan.  <br />Another frustration was the shifting points of view.  The story was supposed to be told in flashbacks and in real time.  Russell gives the reader the points of view of the aliens. It is evident that Sandoz does not have the benefit of that point of view.  It was included to help explain the alien's actions but in reality it pulls the reader out of the story.  It was distracting.<br />The discussion of the Runa culture through the eyes of Sandoz was very good. They really did seem unlike anything on earth.  The Runa came across as disorganized and subservient but intelligent, the Jana'ata came across as very violent, disciplined and highly intelligent.  Both came across as strange and in the case of the Jana'ata...frightening.  The end of the book seemed rushed in comparison to the rest of the book.  The pacing of the last two chapters was off.  I felt like the Jana'ata culture was under explored.  We learned next to nothing about the singers and that was the entire reason for the expedition.  Further exploration of the Jana'ata culture probably would have made Sandoz's plight and loss of faith much more convincing as well.<br />This is first book in a long time to get my mind racing, hence the highest possible rating.   It was fabulous, engrossing, thought provoking etc.  I highly recommend reading it.  Exercise your mind.	2003-12-20
US	51194429	R1XWFAA85GKN94	1892065029	448323258	Pilots Choice Liaden Universe Adventures	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good Start	This was my first foray into the Liaden universe and I can honestly say I enjoyed it immensely.  Both novels had me hooked by the last 100 pages of each.  This book does a good job of forming the universe, I feel like I have an understanding of the conventions in which the characters have to work.  My disclaimer for this review is that I like SF not necessarily Romance.<br />At first I thought I would prefer Scout's Progress to Local Custom because SP on the surface has more SF elements to its plotting.  After reading both, I actually preferred LC to SP.  It is primarily due to the fact that LC has superior characterizations and a more engaging premise.  All in all for me, a well written, richly detailed and superb characterization is more important than which genre fits best.<br />The Liaden universe (at least in these 2 novels) is filled w/ damsels in distress and knights in shining armor.  A little cliched for my tastes especially SP.  I find myself wondering about the misogynistic undertones of the stories.  I will definitely read more in the series before coming to any conclusions, however, these two books are definitely leaning in that direction.<br />An interesting read, but I believe I haven't read the best that these authors have to offer yet.  I am looking forward to reading them more.	2003-12-02
US	51194429	RT13YY7LNLBDN	0441009271	105212435	Scout's Progress	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Pretty  Good	I read Scout's Progress from the Omnibus \\"Pilot's Choice\\".  I did enjoy the book and was unable to put it down for the last 100 pages.  I love SF and that is my main draw to the Liaden universe.  In reality, I regard this as 3.5 stars however, though 3 stars is a tad harsh, a 4 star rating IMO is too generous.<br />The good:  Some great characters, great description of the Liaden universe, great descriptions of the pilot heirarchy and process to become qualified.<br />The bad:  The characterization was wanting.  The tree was the only character in the book w/ any depth.  Daav was entirely too good, Ran Eld entirely too bad, Aelliana too naive.  Essentially most of the characters were one-dimensional cliches of the Romance genre.  A portrait of extremes, no nuance whatsoever.<br />Summary:  I liked the book but it is fluff.  I wouldn't call it excellent SF by any means.  In all honesty I am a little disappointed in this one after reading Local Customs.  Daav was a character I really enjoyed in Local Customs.  In this book he is a cardboard knight in shining armor.  No chinks in the armor at all.  It was a huge let down because he was a great character.  Aelliana was portrayed as the damsel in distress w/ a brain.  In this book, she's a genius but she is also a woman who must ultimately be taken care of.  I guess that leads to what my overall complaint about this book in particular and the Liaden universe in general (admittedly I have only read 2 books).  The portrayal of women in this universe is borderline misogynistic.  Women in power (delms and port authority) are materialistic and status mongering.  They seem to care little for their daughters well-being while their sons deficiencies can be overlooked.  Aelliana's older sister was jealous and mean.  Aelliana was naive and subserviant.  Sammiv tel Izak (pilot/fiance) is having nightmares about the tree.  All the women are either unfeeling shrews or scared of their shadows.  The male characters in contrast were almost all good-natured, intelligent, good looking and well meaning.  A very noticable contrast in characterizations based upon gender.<br />All in all, it was a good, fun read.  A rip-roaring, fast-paced novel which really doesn't slow down. It is however, a cliche festival.  There is no real depth in this novel so don't come looking for it and you'll be fine.  I will return to the Liaden universe.	2003-12-02
US	51194429	RJW2YIFHJO350	0441009115	619726957	Local Custom	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surprisingly Enjoyable	I read Local Custom as part of the omnibus \\"Pilot's Choice\\".  It is my first novel in the Liadan Universe. It is a surprisingly good foray into the Liadan series.  I find myself wanting more.  For me the book started out very slow and didn't really seize my interest until the protagonists went to Liad.  From then on, I was hooked.  Indeed by the end of the book, I was completely immersed in the Liadan Universe.<br />As has been stated by other reviews, the SF aspect of this book was mostly in the setting and mood, not really an important part of the plot.  For me this was not an issue because I was drawn in by the characters and the environment.  I am not a fan of the Romance genre and perhaps that is why I was not impressed in the beginning.  A lot of time is spent convincing the reader that Er Thom as the perfect man and that his love for Ann is a perfect love.   Capitulations about the love that knows no end, is not for me...I don't love fantasy.  Anyway, as soon as they get to Liad, there is more \\"balance\\".<br />The characters that I liked the most were not the protagonists but the supporting players of  Daav and Shan.  I wanted to know what happens to these two.  Er Thom and Ann Davis...I wasn't nearly as invested in their lives. I am a little uncomfortable with the impression that with the exception of Ann Davis, most of the women characters were written as petulant, flighty, irrational, mean-spirited and \\"bad\\".  Though it is obvious in the Liad Universe that both woman and men both occupy positions of power, the execution of the story struck me as having misogynistic undertones (overbearing mother, jealous cousin, duplicitous trader).  I am willing to find out if it was simply characteristic of the story or if this is an underlying theme in the Liad Universe.<br />All in all, I would say that I was surprised how invested I had become by the end of the book.  That is the sign of a very good read.	2003-09-20
US	51194429	R21875DWBM2JDZ	1857231384	772866315	Consider Phlebas	Books	3	4	9	N	N	It [wasn't bad], But it Won't Expand your Mind Either.	Really it's 3.5 stars.  I enjoyed the book, though it took me quite some time to get through it.  I did find it episodic with gimmicks to keep the protagonist engaged.  I have always wanted to read a sci fi novel with a secret agent bent to it so this was my wish.  Horza is James Bond w/o the pannache.<br />I tend to like my sci fi with great characterization and with some kind of philosphical message on the way of the world. This really had neither element to any great degree.  It was a straight forward story with some not entirely successful proclaimations on humanity and the pursuit of perfection.  Idirans were religious fanatics blind to anything but their own purpose.  The culture basically were bored hedonites.  One wonders what would have happened if the Idirans hadn't declared war.<br />I guess the worst thing I can say about this book is that after I finished the last page, I didn't find myself thinking about it's implications at all.	2003-05-29
US	51194429	R2VY1HEY1WOQMB	0380718774	911494096	Beggars in Spain (Beggars Trilogy)	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	An Interesting Extrapolation of Western Ideas and Culture	I liked the book very much, however I struggle with trying to determine it's impact. It seems to be between the crests of good and fantastic and couldn't quite make the leap across. This book is bursting with interesting ideas and themes that carry it through a good, but flawed presentation. This is a near future SF book and this future was not so far fetched as to be inconceivable.<br />Shades of Ayn Rand in this book are so prevalent that it was hard to not see many of the Fountainhead character hybrids in this novel. Jennifer Sharifi was Ellsworth Tooey. Sharifi was appreciative of superiority as long as she could control it. She led the \\"sleepless\\" like they were in fact mediocre that had to be controlled through manipulation. Leisha Camden was Howard Roarke, less violent but none-the-less steadfastly held to her principles regardless of the personal cost because being right was far more important than being accepted. The characters had a clash of ideas and in the end the protagonist prevails because of her uncompromising belief in herself.<br />Also in evidence is the preaching of ideas. This had more to do with poorly drawn characters who are critical to the story. In particular, Jennifer Sharifi or any character whose views were opposed to Leisha Camden, were under-characterized. We never saw the struggle the Jennifer Sharifi endured that caused her to come to her views (other than the murder of Tony). In the last 50 pages we get a paragraph about some implied struggles but no real description of her upbringing. We are simply told what she is thinking. In contrast Alice, a minor character with a major role in the development of Leisha, is well drawn. We aren't told what she is thinking, we given enough information to understand her frame of reference.<br />Two interesting observations about this novel: First is the characterization of the antagonist (what little there was). In the post 9/11 world, it is interesting to note that even back in the early 90's (when this book was written), there was a fear of the Muslim way of life. There is only one character that is so rigid in her thinking that she could not entertain any ideas other than her own, and was so convinced of her own righteousness. This dogmatic approach seemed tied directly to her faith. There is an implied evilness to it. Proof that the western view of Muslims was evident long before September 11th. Secondly, in this current economy, it is interesting that the corporate types were also inherently evil. Kevin Baker would do anything to keep the profits rolling including signing an oath he did not believe in. He was considered a good guy compared to the Calvin Hawke of the We Sleep movement who murdered for his cause. Once again we see themes of our current events, were observed up to 10 years earlier. It does make one wonder if things ever really change.<br />There is a lot more to say about this book but the review is already long enough. It definitely introduced many fine ideas that stuck with me long after I read the last page.	2002-09-07
US	51194429	R2B1P7DURXYKKX	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	12	19	N	Y	Informative and Enlightening...yet Distasteful	David Brock tells us what most people who pay attention to politics and detail already knew.  There was/is a right wing conspiracy and it included alot of players that we suspected and some unexpected contributors as well.  Is anyone surprised to find out that Newt Gingrich was dedicated to the downfall of the Clinton administration or that Britt Hume is not an impartial journalist?  I found the mechanics of the whole operation to be interesting but it all boils down to one thing...enough money can buy popular culture.  Surprise surprise the moral conservatives are every bit as dirty as they accuse the liberals of being.  To me, both of the major political parties are disappointing and to know that some of the obsessed zealots on the right are in extremely powerful positions right now does not make me any more comfortable about our current leadership...nor the alternative.  I find the current political climate repugnant and frankly after reading Brock's book, I don't see much hope.<br />The book for the most part rings true.  The reason for the 4 stars instead of 5 is that like many of the other reviewers, I find Brock to be suspect.  It is obvious to me that he has not found the peace that he claims.  His prose brims with contempt for people who were once his closest friends and allies.  The adjectives and nouns he uses to refer to the people \\"elves\\" etc, reveal a little about his motives.  Does Brock believe what he is writing?  Maybe...but, make no mistake about it the book is vengeful.  Brock still has a lot of healing to do.  The world he left was vicious and venomous and he is still using the tactics to survive in this one.  This guy is Iago to any politician's Othello.  He is dangerous because he doesn't seem to know what he wants, he just doesn't want anyone else to have it.  <br />That being said, I am thankful that he wrote this book.  While he is working through his personal pain, he is removing the blindfold from the eyes of a lot of people who follow the right with such blind faith.  I am always skeptical when one party claims to have moral superiority over another.  There is almost never any substance behind that argument.	2002-08-17
US	51194429	R2Z9XWQ5NTCQH4	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Quite Revealing	Michael Moore has a lot of good points in this book.  If half of the information in this book is true (and I believe it is), it is apparent that Americans are getting the wake-up call that we require.  A very revealing book.<br />The book is definitely one-sided. I consider myself to be socially liberal and fiscally conservative.  Even I found myself a little taken aback that Moore couldn't find anything positive to say about the state of the \\"state\\".  I know that's not the purpose of the book, however, it is hard to take him as completely credible when he doesn't even allow for the illusion of a balanced look.  Of particular annoyance to me was his chapter of \\"We're Number One\\".  Not one positive remark in this chapter, when clearly America is number one in a whole host of positive things as well.  I did not take this book as an assault on America, I just find it hard to lend credence to a host of the claims here, when there is no acknowledgement in the book of the good things that are going on...however few they may be.<br />That being said I found a lot of thought provoking items here.  I liked that he did acknowledge that there is very little difference between Democrats and Republicans and really not that much difference between Bush's policies and Clinton's.  I also thought his observations about Ken Lay, Enron, and our situation in the Middle East, and Bush's \\"Bite Me\\" foriegn policy were very astute and unfortunately pretty close to \\"nail on the head\\".  Considering the book was was written well before Sept 11th, it's kind of humbling to know the signs have been there for a long time and we just didn't see it.<br />Good, eye-opening book.  I think it is far more factual than hyperbole.	2002-04-11
US	51194429	R1YHDREQL58U11	037542069X	966615782	An American Story	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Enjoyable, but many gaps in the story	As an African American woman, who also served as an officer in the Air Force during the same time frame of Ms Dickerson, I was anxious to read about her journey through the military. I saw many similarities in our experiences. I found the book to be most compelling in the first 100 pages; her memoir about the foundation laid to make her the person she is today. This was poignant and affecting writing. After high school, she turns from a living, feeling, and thinking young girl to a two-dimensional character. Important events are glossed-over/minimized. For example her treatment of sex and her relationships with men or really...anybody. There was little or no acknowledgement of her relationships with anyone outside of her parents and her little brother. She occasionally mentioned a boyfriend by name, but apparently other than getting her into Harvard Law School, they had very little impact on her life or the way that she sees the world. Same goes for roommates during OTS and her time as an enlisted person in the Air Force. These people are apparently (by theri ommission) unimportant to her intellectual/emotional development as an adult. Her journey became about the environment she was navigating and her perceptions thereof. A very sparsely drawn environment at that. It was the literary equivalent of her looking through the glass at other peoples lives and judging them rather than experiencing and examining her own life. She did address something that I think is unfortunately overlooked: how middle and upper class blacks feel and interact within their own culture and amongst themselves. She nailed it. I saw similar attitudes and behavior. <br />Ms Dickerson seems to have bountiful book knowledge, but not necessarily emotional intelligence. Unless she is in charge, she doesn't seem to do well. Whether she had stayed in the Air Force, gotten a job at a big law firm or stayed with the NAACP, the social skills required are similar, and (on the basis of this book) it seemsto be something she lacks/or doesn't have the stomach for. As a writer, she is her own boss and has a choice as to what to write. Her success is dependent on her choices rather than working with others (or working with others to a lesser degree). Weird, I get the impression that her success as a writer hinges more on her very impressive resume and connections, than on her ability to write (She is very good writer, though I would not characterize her as gifted). Ironic since she is such an Ayn Rand, by-your-bootstraps type of person. Either way, her world to me seems small and lonely, but none-the-less a triumphant.<br />It takes a great deal of courage to write a memoir such as this and to leave oneself open to the thoughts and opinions of others. I salute Ms Dickerson's mettle; she is indeed quite brave and does in my opinion have a lot to say that is relevant, especially today. I did not see anything heroic or life affecting about this book; however, I do think Ms Dickerson is a talented observer and someone whose opinion would have great credibility in my world.	2002-04-02
US	51194429	R2LRT7CGVAJQR5	0871136031	763762786	If You Leave Me, Can I Come Too?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Insight in Short Chewable Chunks	I liked it. Granted the book was dated but suprisingly, the views were still very applicable. What I got most from the book is how little things have changed in almost 10 years. Heimel states some views about Clinton when he first got in office that could have been made about him now. She definitely is a gifted observer of the human odyssey and condition. She doesn't seem to be able to be satisfied by any condition of life, which as a keen observer of life, is a must (I guess). Sardonic, witty and colorful. Pulitzer prize winning prose...no. Fun and interesting point of view...yes. A good read with some interesting insights.	2002-01-24
US	51194429	R3CEAKDY08S6PE	0671876465	588506568	Mirror Dance (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the Most Engaging Books I've Ever Read	Lois McMaster Bujold is bar-none, the best science fiction author in terms of characterization. This is by far the most engaging book I've read in a while. There is so much to love about this book: the fleshing out of the character of Mark, the return in a big way of Cordelia Naismith Vorkosigan one of my favorite characters in this book series, some additional fleshing out of Emperor Gregor. I didn't think she could outdo Barrayar but, witness Mirror Dance. It was action packed but somehow the real strength of this book lies in the characterization as well as a plot that is both thoughtful and intriguing. <br />If clones are inevidible, McMaster Bujold brought out a lot of legal and moral questions that are also inevidible about their treatment and use. Cordelia's quick acceptance of Mark as a son because in her mind he was sired by her and Aral. Aral's reluctant treatment of Mark, due to societal perceptions and a &quot;hijacking&quot; of his son's DNA-- a not so easy acceptance of the this clone as his son. I cannot even begin to address the moral and ethical ideas brought about by their trips to Jackson's Whole. I could write an essay on the ideas and implications from this book. I will just end this review and say, this book is exceptional to any thinking person. Get it and read it, by page 10, you won't be able to put the book down. It was that good!!!	2002-01-13
US	51194429	R15OOU34H43PQZ	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What reallly happens when implementing high-minded policy	Bowden absolutely nails the chaos and fear and confusion of battle.  This book is riveting in its detail of the &quot;fog of war&quot;.  Not a book about foreign policy, but about what the implementation of the policy entails.  America is the greatest nation that ever existed, with distinct and huge technological and military advantage; however it is not invincible.  What essentially amounted to a well armed gang, was able to penetrate that military might.  We grossely underestimated the Somali people's will and capability and it cost lives.  In my view the American military was triumphant against incredible odds, but ultimately the political establishment did not have the stomach for any further losses.  This certainly was a lesson learned in light of today's environment. We are far more reluctant to commit our troops to battle or peacekeeping, relying instead on indescriminant bombing, and dissident forces to fight the battles (not necessarily a criticism).<br />Bowden does not concentrate on the rationale, nor does he pass judgement on its viability, he concentrates on the men who fought that day. This in itself is laudable, since most journalists would have given in to their own personal biases. Though told primarily from an American point of view (as it should be), it was amazing that he was able to get interviews with Somali fighters, and other foreign nationals present at the time.  A very horrifying yet refreshing look at the results of what is happening in the world outside of our immediate view.  One hundred and fifty soldiers went to war against a city with a population of a million people and the sleeping giant still slept.  Until this book was written, this battle was not even a footnote in American history.  America is impacting other countries in ways that people had not ever considered.  Bowden makes that strikingly clear.  What is also becoming clear as time passes, is that skirmishes such as this one impact foreign policy far more than people think.	2001-12-30
US	51194429	R5NKL0GKL24JU	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Simplistic, But Worthy Read	Started a little slow for me, however about 200 pages into the book I was hooked. Dubbed a &quot;Space Opera&quot; this very imaginative story filled with action and adventure fell short of &quot;masterpiece&quot;. The final 3rd of the book seemed rushed with a lot of important details and information glossed over in an effort to quickly end this long book. I definitely felt cheated. It was like an old time serial where the important action took place off screen and the aftermath was dealt with on screen. Also, it probably would have gone a long way if we understood why the blight was &quot;evil&quot;. It was assumed evil because it toppled the powers in place. Let's face it, the only thing the blight appeared to be guilty of was destroying an elistist, egocentric group, who basically treated the other races as little more than pets. We never really got a good picture of the effects of the blight on civilization other than the Skroderiders (and even here only a small skirmish) and some &quot;news reel type communication&quot;. Interesting in today's climate, you did get the definite feeling that fear of the blight (the destruction of Sjandra Kei) is driving the civilizations into a downward spiral much faster than the blight itself. I also saw some parallels in the Tines battles with today's international climate. I'm sure this was not the authors intent, however, it's interesting how the study of human nature incorporated into a science fiction novel can have one draw such parallels. In the Westernized World, we tend to see good vs. evil as a basic tenant of life. Obviously Vinge is no exception and weaved this philosophy throughout this novel. Blight... Bad, Countermeasure... good (even though it plunged the known universe into a new &quot;dark age&quot;). Mr Steel... Bad, Woodcarver... good (even though she experimented on herself, her own people and offspring; and was singularly responsible for the creation of every Tine antagonist in the book). The book does simplify complex issues and minimizes the importance of understanding the end results and responsibilities of any and all these actions. While it touched on some interesting concepts, the writing was cut short (truncated), unfinished. The science was very imaginative. The fiction... a little cookie cutter. All in all a good read.	2001-10-22
US	51194429	RIA02GW21TA60	0688175805	195770438	The Color of Our Future: Race in the 21st Century	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Boring	I saw the author during a book signing on television.  I saw a young, intelligent, articulate lady who had some very interesting ideas about American culture.  I picked up the book to learn more about her and her ideas.  Unfortunately, though there is a lot of meat in this book, simply put, I was bored...bored...bored.  This is not a subject I take lightly and believe me, I wanted to like this book because I like the author.  I have to agree with a lot of the reviewers here.  There is a lot of data and no real point.  A lousy effort and there are few people more disappointed than me.	2001-01-03
US	51194429	R3JLR8SF3Q7GC4	0553374354	411332450	Evolution's Shore	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A very enjoyable read	I read this book about 3 years ago on a whim. It was my first Ian McDonald book. It definitely will not be my last. Great book. Started out a little slow but I was completely drawn in as soon as Gaby McAshlan hit the Chaga. A great read on its own merits but I was drawn philosophically as well. The conflict between Western civilizations (UN) trying to manipulate the outcome in 3rd world countries (Africa) was compelling. Especially in light of a situation that seems like an inevitable occurrence on the entire planet. When I thought about the alternative of the Western world doing nothing, unfortunately, that was equally plausible. The fact that the novel takes place in the near future made it very easy to visualize. I thought that the bulk of the sex and romance in the story was mostly gratuitous and McDonald did not flesh out some of the more interesting characters. I found Gaby's roommate Miriam Sondhai to be a very interesting character and wanted to learn more about her . I thought the ending with Gaby's lover Shepard in space was a little much as well, although I did enjoy the descriptions of the conditions in space and would like to know just what he saw when he went into the Big Dumb Object. I have been waiting patiently for the sequel to be published in the states.	2001-01-03
US	51194429	R1AHY2ETK4EIDB	1888363258	383179538	Parable of the Sower: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A book of great depth and hope.  It's affect may suprise you	I enjoyed reading this book and look forward to &quot;Parable of Talents&quot;. This was my first Octavia Butler novel, and it was entirely different than I expected. I am a sci fi fan and this book did not entirely fit that description (this is not a criticism). Butler was able to immerse me into a world that was scary and brutal, yet not altogether unfathomable. In my mind, that is what was scariest. She diagramed a world of the poor and more or less ignored, only occasionally giving the reader a glimpse of the other layers of society...mostly in the form of very sparse political discussions. These people could not worry about political matters on the national scale, they had to satisfy Maslowe's hierarchy of needs for safety and shelter and food. These people who were only slightly above wild animals and yet somehow though they struggled for survival, they were able to retain their civility and their humanity. One of the other reviewers said that this vision already existed in some 3rd world countries and I believe that. While reading this tale, one gets an almost foreboding feeling that there but for an economic upheaval go I. Yet through it all, there is still a message of hope, that people need not exist at their basest elements to thrive, that trust in each other and compassion could be the determining factors in who survives in the end. A very deep book with all types of hidden messages. The depth of it sneaks up on you. It is an unassuming work of art.	2000-12-30
US	51194429	R3DKKOJNKL0YPW	0679722033	912565168	The Emperor: Downfall of an Autocrat	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent!	Great historical book describing the mood of the palace in Ethiopia under the rule of Haile Selassie.  Excellent in its description of mood.  You actually see the insanity and chaos that Selassie created and nurtured in  his palace and metaphorically thoughout his country.  And by the end of the  book, you understand how the King of Kings was destroyed by the monster he  created.  The style was unlike any book I'd read in the past.  It was  really exceptionally well done.	2000-02-13
US	51194429	RH20GFC2GD27S	0345330137	387028775	Double Star	Books	2	3	16	N	N	banal and dated	This Hugo award winning novel shows its age.  Characters are using slide rules and fingerprints to prove their points.  Not to mention the Martians  running around Earth and Mars.  Very talky not much else going on.  Lots of  fiction very little science or imagination.  More of a character study of a  man's blossoming from a self-centered oaf to a world leader.  Really a  pretty basic fish out of water becomes a hero story.  Not a whole lot of  literary value here.  I consider this book a waste of time.  Not even a  good escape novel.	1999-10-31
US	51194429	RK6MOXQDR63WQ	0446605980	264443642	The Last Day	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unique and Thought Provoking	I liked the book, however, I thought the writing is less than literature. Kleier's character dialogs were simplistic and in some cases stupid. This  is not Pulitzer Prize winning stuff. Also, his characters were one  dimensional. In particular the female characters with the exception of  Jeza, were stereotypical and throughout the novel quite subordinate to  every male character. Ironic considering Jeza's farewell address. Kleier  apparently talks the talk but in the end proves that some of the very views  he condemned in the novel are engrained in his own psyche. <br />That being  said, I thought some of the ideas that he presented were brilliant.  Incidently, I didn't really view his attacks on the Catholic Church to be  that pervasive. Clearly his attacks on religious organizations centered  around the Catholic Church because it is the most widely recognized  religious organization in the world. Simply put, he wrote about what he  believed would strike a cord in the majority of the readers. A cop  out...sure, but the idea is to get in our face and challenge our own deep  set beliefs. I seriously doubt this book changed many minds in terms of our  religious beliefs, however, the author's ideas were thought provoking and  certainly give one pause to how one sees themself in a world where  religions have molded our views so completely, in good ways as well as bad.  It also serves as reminder that maybe humanity should not be lost in the  ruthless pursuit of religious truth.	1999-10-24
US	51194429	R3O70FQ1SHTVB	0671884271	594874910	Black Betty	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Another Round of the Same old Stuff	This book was entertaining, however don't look for much depth in the Easy Rawlins novels.  Mosley tend to talk too much about how hard it is to be a black man in 1950's LA but you never really feel the anguish.  Easy's  situations are too far fetched.  It's simply not believable.  These feeling  may have come out because I've read a few too many Easy Rawlin's novels and  frankly its hard to differentiate between them.  Standard formula:  woman  in trouble in black part of town because she has messed around with someone  outside of her race.  Easy gets in trouble because he's black.  Boring....I  did enjoy the passages about his kids.  It's a mystery novel and I am not a  fan of the genre which could account for my lackluster appraisal.  I did  finish the book which means I must have found something worthwhile about  it.	1999-09-21
US	51194429	R2T4ZQ1Y08IA5N	067172083X	13412921	Barrayar	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I LOVED this book	I read this book a few years ago and I loved it!!! It has stayed with me and is singularly responsible for my love and respect for this author.  I tend to enjoy books with good characterizations and this one is chalked  full of it.  I loved Cordelia Naismith, Aral Vorkosigan and Bothari.  This  book is powerful and every bit deserving of the awards it has received.   Lots of intrigue, suspense and just plain superb writing.  Not typical SF  fare to be sure.  This novel is far more.  As an SF enthusiust, I found the  novel to be fullfilling.  Unemcumbered by misplaced laser fights, starships  and aliens, Bujold was creating a universe with compelling societies and  projections as to what can happen to man as he expands his presence in the  universe.  What type of aborrations and mutations to our views of society  and morality will ensue (as the future inevidably dictate will occur), once  man extends beyond earth in the outgrowth of extraterrestrial colonies.   Barrayar is just one interpretation.  I think Bujold puts across these  ideas and much much more.  She does so brilliantly.  Awesome book.	1999-08-23
US	51194429	RFTEFTETI56A1	0061053562	341413187	The Player of Games	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A very subtle, but profound novel...WOW	I waited a few weeks to write this review because I wanted the book to sink in a little.  Rightfully so, for as time went on I realized that I did enjoy it, and found it to be quite profound.  This book is my first Culture  novel and as such, many of the fundamental Culture principles were lost on  me.  However...I got it.  I found the Culture to be every bit as ruthless  and vicious as the empire it sought to destroy.  In some ways, far worse,  for the Culture's hidden agenda is far more perilous for Jernau Gurgeh than  the Empire of Azad's far more notorious and blatant overtures.  Truly a  scary tale of what a political machine gone amuck can do.  I don't consider  a mastery of gaming to be a particularly important or valuable skill to any  society on a grand scale.  A doctor, engineer or poet might prove more  important representatives.  Interesting how one man's seemingly small  contribution, could figure so pivotal to the downfall of an empire. Yet in  his own world, he is ultimately a meaningless and expendable creature; far  too cognitive of the Culture's real motivations to be left alive.  Powerful  stuff.  Once it hits you, you'll be in awe of Banks.  I didn't realize how  much he said in such a little book.	1999-08-23
US	51194429	R1HT48XS2IB8CJ	0553279718	662268278	The Uplift War (The Uplift Saga, Book 3)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Had me until the last 50 pages	I was a little disappointed with this one.  I liked the other two books in the series and I enjoy his universe.  I really enjoyed about  of this book.  I found the plight of the Tymbrini female and the human male quite  compelling and vivid.  Making the chimpanzee's key to the telling of this  book left me cold, primarily because they appeared too human to me.  There  was little to differentiate between the human thought process and the  chimpanzee thought process.  I think Brin overstepped his imagination  boundaries in trying to imagine what chimpanzees would be like if we could  communicate with them.  His imagination simply did not stretch far enough  to allow him to create a familiar animal activities in the alien world.    The alien species he created however were fascinating.  I think he should  stick to aliens and humans.  I did like the chimpanzee characters in his  first two books, however they were supporting characters, not main  characters such as in this one.  The ending also left a little to be  desired.  By the time I read the last pages, I wasn't sure if I was reading   an adult novel or a novel for children.  Not his best work but I still  like the author a lot.	1999-06-19
US	51194429	R313PLS69HOE1	0380729792	524917076	Book	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Beneath her considerable Talents...	This book was about Whoopi Goldberg's opinion on various things.  It was non-fiction.  Though I agreed with many of the ideas presented in this book, I found it to be adolescent.  Whoopi was trying too hard to be down  to earth and frankly, ended up sounding juvenile.  I like her, I think she  has the ability to see things others do not, but I think this book was dumb  and beneath her intelligence and wit.	1999-06-06
US	51194429	R2CCHYF9ZNF6D1	067165604X	816543640	Ethan of Athos	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Yucky Sci-Fi Candy	Science Fiction fluff.  I found the idea of a planet entirely populated with men, intriguing.  But McMaster Bujold copped out on this one.  Not an ounce of depth.  Fluffy characterization, silly plot.  A total waste of  time.  Disappointing because I expected a little more from the author.   This book was short, which is the best thing I can say about it.  Not a  hard read, but not a good one either.  A book to read when you don't want  to think.	1999-06-06
US	51194429	R1MUBPB0DP701C	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow!!!	Wow.  Great Book.  A little on the depressing side as is Morrison's writing as a whole, however, this woman is brilliant.  She has the gift of transporting the reader to her world and the gift of being able to explain  very tough, human concepts to the reader.  I will admit, a lot of the  symbolism and metaphors were lost on me because I am not a gifted analyst,  however I do know brilliance when I read it.  The main character Sethe is  crazed yet rational in the setting; almost bizarre in her saneness in light  of her past.  Beloved is truly eerie as the woman who seeks to destroy  Sethe.  All of the other characters in the book are riveting, as is  Morrison's commentary on the roots of the black community.  How blacks  interact, envy, and covet.  Simply fabulous!!!	1999-06-06
US	51194429	R1YEI6ERO6PK1E	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Life Changing Prose!!!	Awe inspiring!  Toni Morrison is a brilliant writer with the ability to draw the reader in from the first page.  Not only a riveting story, but a very philosophical book as well.  Each character was fleshed out so well,  even the secondary characters seemed like people I know.  Every character  is deeply flawed, even the hero...much like real people.  This book helped  me to understand some of the motivations of people in my own life.  Not  because they resemble the characters, but because the situations the  characters were in were similar (metaphorically) to much of my own life.  I  can't forgive these things, but at least I can see where some of the  feelings were coming from.   This book also helped me to recognize how  important it is to know, not only where you come from, but to respect the  things that your &quot;people&quot; have gone through.  That is something  that I had not put much thought into during my lifetime.  As I reviewed  some of the concepts in this book, I realized that Toni Morrison had  changed my life.  She added texture and depth to the way that I view  others.  Very few authors have the ability to describe human emotions and  motivations to that degree. She is easily the most brilliant writer I have  ever read...and I read alot!!!	1999-06-06
US	51194429	R364STG95FA8ZJ	0671720147	442760647	The Vor Game	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Terrific...but Hugo material?!!	I was a little disappointed in this one because it won the Hugo award.  I love McMaster Bujould's characterization and the zany situations her characters get into.  I also liked in this book, the fleshing out of  Emperor Gregor.  I very much enjoyed Mile's twisted strategem and his  nemises Cavilo was inspired.  I love strong female characters.  I hope  McMaster Bujould brings her back in the future.  It was not, however, award  winning stuff.  I loved Barrayer so much that most of her books that I have  since read have been anti-climatic.  Oh well, they are still great fun.	1999-05-28
US	51194429	R19V63OENUGY3U	0553573314	199085075	The Diamond Age	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific...What a Ride!!!!	Intense but very creative.  Crawl out of your narrow view and get a look at this cybernetic chess game.  A game where the victorious win control of the human race.  This guy has such vivid imagary and the implications of  this book are astounding.  Mere words can't describe.  Try to envision  every aspect of the human race, every germ, every sperm, every ovum as part  of a super computer code.   That which controls the code controls the  world.  Now and try to make this concept plausible.  Neal Stephenson did  this magnificently.	1999-05-28
US	51194429	R1CPFK1L4SXGFI	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Interesting, but dated...	This book was written in 1956 and the reader can tell.  Though there are some uncharacteristically strong female characters in this book (for the 1950's), they all fall in lock step behind some male character in the book  and become submissive and completely unbelievable.  Each of the lead female  characters just happens to fall in love with one of Gully Foyle's pursuers.   A testimony to the times in which the book was written.  In the 1950's men  were not allowed to feel and most of the male characters are either souless  or deserve pity of some kind.  The tepid of romance in this book was  strained with men falling in love with women on sight without getting to  know them.   It would have been a much better novel without it.  Aside from  these huge flaws, I found the book an exciting read, full of intrigue  suspense and some surprises.	1999-05-28
US	51194429	R38ODDXLBRG53L	0671697994	457373406	Brothers in Arms	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Sci Fi Candy	Another bit of fluff, though much better than &quot;Ethan of Athos&quot;.   As far as science fiction authors go, McMaster Bujold is one of the better ones at characterization.  She usually brings her characters to life for  the readers.  This book however, suffered from undercharacterization  for  most of the characters and made me unable to transfer to the world she had  created.  The nature of this genre is to suspend disbelief to a point,  however, I found some of the situations tiresome reading because it just  too far fetched.  I will say that Miles is one of the most interesting  series characters in the history of science fiction.  Though this is one of  the more billowy books in the series, overall, the series never  disappoints.	1999-05-28
US	51194429	R2YLT74HXMY678	0374286973	601276911	We Wish to Inform You that Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families: Stories From Rwanda	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating view into the collective madness of a nation	A captivating book about the genocides in Rwanda in 1994 and its aftermath.  The book was extremely well written with the author's obvious empathy for the people.  He was able to look inside the psyche of both the  victims and the perpetrators in a situation that can only be described as  anarchy.  Basically, an entire country went crazy, a psychosis built on a  solid foundation of Western influences and prejudices.  It really brings  home a lot of issues about foreign policy on the world stage and the  european/american apathy towards Africa in general.  A tremendous read.	1999-05-16
US	51194429	R3G96RHXDRM0DJ	0140277242	2832661	Straight, No Chaser: How I Became a Grown-Up Black Woman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A powerful book packed with insight.	I enjoyed the book.  I thought that Ms Nelson identified ideas, motivations and feelings that I have experienced, but never organized the concepts nearly as concisely or eloquently.  I will recommend this book to  my friends, if for no other reason than to vocalize issues that I percieve  a lot of black women face but do not recognize as dangerous. The silence  and as Jill Nelson put it &quot;the invisibility&quot; endangers our issues  due to the much more vocal, male dominated views toward racism and gender  issues which are commonly viewed as &quot;white woman&quot; issues.  Bravo  for bringing such radical ideas to light.  My only problem with the book  was that it was largely opinion, largely unsubstantiated with real research  except the author's own life and conditions.  In my opinion, there is no  excuse for that because no doubt there are countless historical examples as  well as current events that Ms Nelson could have provided to shore up her  ideas.  I found their absense to detract from the book's substance and  smacks of laziness on the part of the author.  Having said that, I found  the book's ideas and Ms Nelson's experiences to be compelling and profound.  I  recommend the book.	1999-02-13
