US	51204643	R2AABLDDF2JMBM	0786914017	778561505	City of Ravens (Forgotten Realms:  The Cities series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great book	I devoured this book in short order. I loved the colorful thief / mage, Jack as he conned his way in and out of trouble in the city of Ravens.  There were a lot of subplots going on, but Richard Baker makes it easy to follow.  The charm and wit that Jack possess as well as the characters he runs into are unforgettable.  This will probably be one of my favorite Forgotten Realm books and I look forward to reading other Richard Baker novels.  Worth reading if you are a Dungeons and Dragons fan and enjoy a lively city adventure with a smart talking thief.	2003-12-27
US	51204643	R119OJUHDW0KL2	1582018324	916049572	Samuel the Seeker (The Collected Works of Upton Sinclair - 51 Volumes)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another Sinclair classic	Samuel the Seeker is a tongue in cheek version of a Horatio Alger book.  Samuel starts off life as a naive farmer's boy who must leave home to find work in New York.  Unfortunately, he never makes it to the big city and is waylaid in a medium-sized town that has problems of their own.  He finds that employment is tough to find and that the odds are stacked against him.<br />Samuel's adventures mirror those of an Alger book.  He finds employment by saving the life of a rich person.  He is happy working there until he realizes the debauchery his employer practices.  This goes against Samuel's Christian upbringing and again he hits the street in search of work.  Ultimately, Samuel learns that the world isn't a friendly place.  The church only offers minimal succor and fails to punish and correct the wealthy members who cause the poor misery.  <br />While the events were a bit hokey like that of a rags to riches Alger story, Sinclair's identifying of many social ills are crystal clear.  Fans of Sinclair will enjoy this book as well as those who are interested in social injustices and socialism.	2001-09-17
US	51204643	RLAVNYIKRFEAN	0837604079	178599617	The Pit: A Story of Chicago	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Historical Novel on Chicago	The Pit is a story about the Chicago Wheat market during the early 1900's.  Norris writes a historical / romance book in which Laura Dearborn finds herself in Chicago from Boston.  Almost immediately, she is beset by a variety of suitors.  However, she is most taken by Curtis Jadwin, a sophisticated businessman who is influential on the Chicago Board of Trade.<br />After marrying Laura, the conservative speculator, after making a nice profit on the wheat market, becomes obsessive over controlling it.  As the story unfolds, his wealth grows in a short period of time and for a while he captures the market.  Ultimately, though, the market corrects itself and he must save his fortune as well as his wife, Laura, whose love begins to flee from lack of attention from Jadwin.<br />I found this book very slow at the beginning.  However, once the market traps Jadwin, the book becomes exciting and the pages fly by.  Laura is a realistic character, although I didn't have a lot of sympathy for her - she come off rather spoiled and hapless.  Norris's point about the addictiveness of speculating on wheat futures and the power that it has over the rest of the world is evident.  A solid book and worth reading by those who like that period of time or are interested in Chicago's history.	2001-09-17
US	51204643	R16VQZAP5BE50I	1582018154	238190101	Brass Check, The (The Collected Works of Upton Sinclair - 51 Volumes)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Near autobiographical account of Sinclair	The Brass Check is Upton Sinclair's nearly autobiographical experiences with the press. Sinclair, most famous for writing about the meat packing plants in the early 1900's (in the Jungle), received a lot of bad press by capitalist owned newspapers. These periodicals openly attacked him, printed half-truths, or failed to give him credit when he was right. The book contains 445 pages of his experiences with the press. He laments that most papers sell by submitting to the whims of their advertisers and printing scare headlines. Providing a substantial amount of evidence, Sinclair shows how papers and magazines unfairly discredited him and his causes. Of particular interest are the Colorado coal miner strike and the conditions of the meat packing plants in Chicago. Probably only hard core Upton Sinclair fans will appreciate this book. Most of it was mundane and outdated. A lot of the players and events that he covered never made it to the history books and it was challenging to remain focused after hearing yet another story about a newspaper (some of which still exist today - Los Angeles Times, for example). Historians will appreciate the different perspective on history and fans of Upton Sinclair will get an up and close personal look at his personal life.	2001-08-27
US	51204643	R1QV1U9OF2BL4Q	1573928445	592073828	The Profits of Religion (Great Minds Series)	Books	4	46	52	N	N	Interesting book	Muckraker and socialist writer, Upton Sinclair, takes on the subject of the corruption of formal religions in this vitriolic piece of non-fiction.  Sinclair writes mainly about the crimes that organized Christian religions have committed against the common laborer and the strides they have taken to ingratiate themselves with big business.<br />Sinclair loads up a cart of rotten eggs and begins hurling them.  He scores some major hits.  He takes on the Anglican church and their faults as they drove the country of England into lack of preparedness for World War I.  The Catholic church, which Sinclair argues is the worst of the bunch, gets 50 pages of scathing attacks--everything from where money came from to buy their churches and how they duped soldiers into world war I with seemingly holy prayer books.  He also gives case examples on how they patched the wounds of the striking workers but failed to address the inequalities which causes the workers to strike.  The protestant churches get their fair share as well with their crooked ministers who Rockefeller used to pacify his unruly and striking workers.  <br />Organized religion, Sinclair points out, has also undermined women's rights, the right of poor worker to strike or find something better, and brought in a breed of charlatans (some of which have grown tremendously and still exist today).  Sinclair also uses history to point out obvious abuses and shows how in some cases the writings of saints with socialistic ideas have been suppressed and not taught (or conveniently ignored).<br />Sinclair, at the end of the book, does not condemn Christianity.  He believes that when the Social Revolution occurs that a new Christianity will take place that will encourage and make equal everyone's rights.  Some of the facts and information are a bit dated, but over all the some of the same problems that existed at the turn of the century are still around.  In addition, some of the ideas were a bit complicated and probably required more knowledge of what the issues were of the day than what I was familiar with.  This book is a definite reminder of the effects of religious corruption and abuses.	2001-08-08
US	51204643	R3S3LN9FYU3LXW	158201826X	747368852	Boston: A Novel (Upton Sinclair Works)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Excellent Story	This mammoth book covers the Sacco / Vanzetti trial - probably the most tumultuous trial in the early part of last century.  Sacco and Vanzetti were two Italian workers who were accused of murdering and stealing money from two payroll carriers in suburban Boston.  The story is told through the use of a fictional character named Cornelia, who had lived a life with the rich and elite of Boston.  After her husband dies, she wants to live life and takes a tough job in a rope factory.  In seeking room and board, she meets and befriends Vanzetti.  Experiencing the poor working conditions and associating with Vanzetti, she sees the abuse of the workers by the rich owners and becomes sympathetic to social change.<br />The story turns tragic, though, when the good-natured Vanzetti and his friend Sacco, are implicated in a burglary.  The police seeking a guilty party intimidate and coerce Irish witnesses into telling lies about the pair.  The Italians have very little hope once they reach the courtroom, when they learn that the judge is clearly against them.  Being poor, they are unable to pay the necessary and customary bribe.<br />When they are found guilty, other countries and labor leaders throughout the world became angry with Boston.  Freedom and the United States' justice system becomes a laughing matter.  Ultimately, the police were called in to handle the riots that almost ensued in Boston when the pair of activists was put to death.  Even today, there are shadows of doubt over Boston as a  result of this trial.<br />Using part fiction and part history, Upton Sinclair paints a grim portrait of American justice gone awry.  Over and over, Sinclair points out where the plaintiff's case was based on non-credible witnesses, a biased judge and jury, hatred of the defendants' socialistic and anarchistic beliefs, and prejudice.  While the book was interesting, especially in illuminating the  reader of how the system \\"really\\" works, I did find it tiring.  The book was long and there were a ton of witnesses and characters that the reader had to remember.  Sometimes, the same points and facts were repeated two or three times and the story had a tendency to jump around in time.  Overall, though, I found the book interesting and absorbing - like all of Sinclair's   works that I have read.	2001-08-08
US	51204643	R1U06QCOV9ZP25	0882860542	672225133	The Flivver King: A Story Of Ford-America	Books	4	22	24	N	N	The Other Story about Ford...	Sinclair writes an extremely interesting historical novel about the start of the Ford Automobile Company.  The story is told from the perspective of Abner Shutt, one of Ford's first employees.  Abner lives in the times where Henry Ford began his auto design humbly in the early 1900's till the mid 30's when Ford was known as the richest man in the world.<br />The story's focus, however, is on the treatment of the workers.  When Ford started his factory, he cared a great deal about his employees, but as time went on he became obsessed with speeding up the manufacturing process and increasing his profits.  By streamlining the process and making people work harder, his profits grew while his workers received the same pay.  When the  workers tried to form unions Ford's \\"hidden spies\\" crushed any attempt of congregation, even resorting to violence.<br />This book was like reading a detailed piece of history.  Ford's anti-Semitic feelings are revealed through his little-known Dearborn Chronicle Magazine and how the Klan was active in the Detroit area.  Also, Ford company initiatives are accounted for as well (such as moral families received a substantial bonus - if they allowed themselves to be investigated.)  The historical scope of the novel is fascinating and I found it compelling,  rich, and hard to put down.  It is similar to the Sinclair's Jungle (an account on the conditions of the meat packing plants).  The book was instrumental in the formation of the United Auto Worker's Union.	2001-08-08
US	51204643	R1O45725P40OPK	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Excellent Coverage of the Fast Food industry	Schlosser writes a gripping account of the societal effects of the plethora of fast food restaurants.  While not vegetarian's book, a health book, or even an animals' rights book, it is rather a grim look at the impact on the nation by fast food chains.<br />The start of the book covers the beginnings of McDonalds, Carl's Jr, Wendy's. and other now-famous chains.  Reading the capitalistic accounts of the owners is truly remarkable in understanding how these people got where they are today.  However, there is a dark side to their success, one that Schlosser reveals to the reader and reveals the true nature of the business:   profits.<br />Schlosser covers the non-unionized workers that run the stores.  They are at risk to robberies and are underpaid and have no real benefits.  They are also given no real job skills, yet the restaurants receive tax breaks for the high rate of turnover on their employees.  Schlosser then takes the reader through tours of various slaughterhouses.  He has personally interviewed workers who are forced to do rush jobs butchering animals and who have high rates of on the job injuries that are quietly swept under the carpet.  Most of the workers in charge of the nation's meat supply are uneducated illegal aliens.  Most of the food found in fast food restaurants has been overly processed and may contain fecal matter or other contaminants, according to  Schlosser.  The overworked and understaffed USDA is often at the mercy of the meat plants.  Despite repeat violations, even the USDA continues to purchase meat for school lunches from cited meat plants.<br />There are many throwbacks in this book from Upton Sinclair's, The Jungle (the book is dedicated to \\"Red\\").  From reading the book, one would guess we are only a little better than where we were in 1906.  The book doesn't advocate vegetarianism, but does equate the working conditions for the delivery of the cheap burger to those of the sweat shop workers.  I found the book extremely compelling and factual, one that made huge amounts of  sense to me as I see trend of homogenizing America, and the world.	2001-05-14
US	51204643	REOPZGWY8KHBS	9997402677	284691712	B. F.'s Daughter	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Interesting Love story in WW2	A story about marriage set in the middle of WW2.  Polly Fulton, daughter of the industrial giant Burton Fulton (B.F.), was going to be married to her long time friend and almost too level-headed boyfriend Bob prior to WW2.  They've been in love with each other for quite some time.  However, prior to their announcing their engagement, Polly discovers Tom Brett, a more wild and more in need of motherly maintanence.  Fearing a life of dullness with Bob, she calls off her engagement to Bob and announces that she will marry Tom, much to B.F's disappointment.<br />However, at the outbreak of WW2 Tom's job takes him to work in DC where he has a job with the war department.  Polly lives in New York and she has problems communication with Tom on account that Tom is very busy.  Polly, sensing stress with their marriage, decides to pay Tom a visit.  Instead of acting like they missed one another, there is even more tension and arguing.  Polly suspects that Tom is having an affair.<br />The story involves how Polly is raised by her father, B.F.  He is controlling and very powerful.  Naturally, she respects him but her life is managed by her father.  It was her way of rebelling when she dumped Bob and married Tom. However, Polly grows up to be like her father and we discover that Tom has the same sort of reaction she had to be controlled:  he runs away from their marriage.<br />This is the first Marquand book I've read.  The writing was 1st rate, however, the sequence of events in the book vary -- sometimes you are in the present and sometimes you are in the past, as Polly recalls her youth.  A little hard to get through at times because there wasn't much action and the payoff was a bit of a let down.  However, I may check out this guy again, particularly his Pulitzer winning book.  The details concerning life in the states during WW2 were also interesting.	2001-05-03
US	51204643	R353B0YO6TLUQP	0140260404	977482618	The Road Ahead: Completely Revised and Up-to-Date	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good light read	Written just at the brink of the Internet revolution, Bill Gates (Microsoft CEO) predicts what will happen in the future in regards to computers.  Gates predicts that computers will become even more prevalent and become more indispensable.  Roughly the first quarter of the book is dedicated to computer history and Gates' early computer experiences.  Also, Gates writes a synopsis of the start of Microsoft.<br />Much of the book deals with the future of e-commerce and how the consumer will win with more choices.  Also chapters are dedicated to the benefits to the economy when technology becomes more infused with daily life.  In addition, he predicts that computers will become smarter and be able to learn about the user and response quicker, even guessing ahead of time what a user's request might be.  Gates feels that it is important to include computers in school, as children can learn better with them.<br />I felt Gates' predictions were a bit overly optimistic.  I also felt that with the coming of this new technology that the end of privacy would result.  While Gates does address this issue, I felt that it was treated in a light matter.  The book is about 6 years old and his predictions were largely on the money.  However, some the products he sees have yet to come to fruition.  I didn't I find many of his plans too laughable, but some bordered Orwellian.  The audience of the book need not be overly technical to understand the book, only an interest in where computers will take us next is required.	2001-04-24
US	51204643	R187D059NYLF79	158201891X	781968454	The Mine with the Iron Door: A Romance, The (The Collected Works of Harold Bell Wright - 18 Volumes)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not a bad Wright book	Hugh Edwards, a non-western type, wanders into in a rural Arizona mining community.  The principle characters of the mining community are Thad and Bob - both friendly old-timers who have an adopted young woman  they've raised since early childhood named Marta.  In addition, the friendly Saint  Jimmy (the doctor) and his mother live in the area.<br />Hugh quickly learns to be independent and makes a life for himself mining for gold.  However, he is smitten with love for Marta (and she for him).  However, Marta is ashamed to admit the love because she doesn't know her true heritage.  Hugh also has a shadowy past that he is running from.  Their love is made obvious when Natachee (a lone wolf Indian in the area who has a grudge against white people) forces Hugh to be his slave after earning of Hugh's past.  Also, other unsavory characters kidnap Marta after realizing that her parents are a source of money and Hugh must come to her rescue.<br />Harold Bell Wright writes a traditional western tale.  The book is a bit deeper than that, though.  Wright illustrates that the greed that causes people to search for the lost \\"Mine with the Iron Door\\" (a mine that is rumored to hold much gold) is the same that caused the destruction of the Indian and the western frontier.  Natachee's enlightening lectures makes the reader aware of what the Indians went through.  Fans of Wright won't be disappointed by this story, however the ending was a bit goofy or me.<br />-etg	2001-04-12
US	51204643	R2VA94FZXFL8MP	0192833804	404458421	Treasure Island (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting Pirate Adventure	Jim Hawkins, a young man living in rural England with his parents, helps run an inn with his parents.  His life changes forever when a mysterious dying pirate takes residence at the inn.  The shadowy pirate is often on the lookout for strangers who begin to show up in search of the pirate.  Rum finally takes its toll on the pirate and he dies, leaving behind a mysterious chest that the strangers are interested in.  Upon examination, Jim discovers a treasure map.<br />With the help of Jim's adult friends, a crew is formed to go in search of the pirate's buried treasure on a remote tropical island.  The journey is uneventful until, Jim saves the day when he realizes that their crew consists mainly of pirates who hope to cause mutiny upon reaching the island.  Ultimately, a raging battle takes place on the island where Jim and his friends must outwit the pirates who are led by the one-legged Long John Silver.<br />For a children's book, this book had a lot of inappropriate material - drinking and violence.  I also had a tough time with the old-English writing style and the nautical terms.  This book was ahead of its time, though, in terms of the adventure it described, but I was hoping for more.  Fans of H. Rider Haggard (ala King Solomon's Mines) will enjoy this book but I was sort of happy to be done with it as some parts were engaging and others were muddled.	2001-03-29
US	51204643	R1E4QCQNSH6RZ0	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	7	7	N	N	No courtroom thriller here...	You won't find any suspender-wearing lawyers in the latest novel by Grisham.  Instead, Grisham tells a story from the perspective of Luke Chandler, a 7-year-old boy who lives on a small farm in Arkansas during the early 1950's.   The series of events that he chronicles occur during the late summer when the cotton crop is ready to be picked.<br />The story starts out when Luke's father hires a group of \\"hill people\\" (the Spruills) and some wandering Mexicans to help pick the crop.  The Spruills are a typical labor-based, poor family.  One of the Spruills that Luke comes in contact with is Tally: an attractive seventeen-year-old girl who Luke admires.  In addition, there is Hank, a burly and mean tempered man who is  at odds with Luke and the Mexicans.<br />Luke is a colorful character - he dreams of playing baseball and appears precocious for his age.  His inquisitiveness and being at the wrong place at the wrong time make him a witness to several sobering events, including the birthing of an illegitimate daughter, seeing a brutal street fight, and even  murder.<br />Grisham makes a pretty good stab at writing literature.  While some may find that the book is dull, and at times it is (the tension throughout was fairly minimal), Luke is a likeable character and his adventures are worth reading about.  While the book is filled with stereotypes, I found myself enjoying the narrative style and the writing.  However, I found that Luke was a little too curious about sex at his age - perhaps at age 10 or 11 I would've bought it, but at 7?  If you are looking for a courtroom thriller, I'd pass on this book.  If, on the other hand, you enjoy solid writing you'll find this book worth the time.	2001-03-27
US	51204643	RADJ0LV7CJAIL	0786231556	192819313	Boone's Lick: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Western Adventure Story	McMurtry's latest story is a return to what he does best; tell good western tales.  Told from the perspective of fifteen-year-old Shay Cecil, this story is about a family's adventure from Missouri to Wyoming a few years following the Civil War.  The Cecil family is poor and they barely make ends meet while living in a poor town called Boone's Lick, Missouri.  Shay's father  had gone west and has failed to return after 14 months.  This prompts Shay's mother to pack up the family and head west to see what is holding him up.<br />Their journey isn't without danger.  Raids by warmongering Indians, wild animals and the weather pose constant threats as the Cecil family goes through Kansas and Nebraska.  Along the way, they pick up several colorful characters that help the family journey westward.  When the family finally reaches the forts of Wyoming and their father, they realize that their father is living a double life, which poses turmoil to Shay and his mother.<br />McMurtry's ability to tell a solid western tale is alive and well.  While the book doesn't have the depth of Lonesome Dove, it is very entertaining.  I found it very hard to put down and in fact I read it in a day.  While some of the events that occur left me feeling skeptical about their chances of happening, McMurtry's ability to make the reader care for his characters make this book work.  Fans of McMurtry will not be disappointed.	2001-03-27
US	51204643	R1FPTQ77N0SAQV	0316546550	76846676	Point of No Return	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Powerful writing...	Marquand tells the story of Charles Gray, a successful middle-class, investment counselor who is approaching a midlife crisis of sorts. On the verge of receiving a promotion, his job forces him to go to Clyde, Massachusetts to do research into a cordage company.<br />Clyde is Charlie's hometown, where he had left a lot of emotionally baggage behind when he left it to find better prospects.  The story unveils Charlie's life as it unfolded in Clyde - from his father's idiosyncrasies, his father's death, the Depression, and the events that led to his being unable to marry the woman he loved because he wasn't in their social class.<br />As Charlie recalls these times, he wonders if the hush and rush of getting ahead in the money world is really worth the benefit.  Charles is a likeable character.  While Marquand can be wordy, the writing is exceptionally solid and enthralling.  The book deals with Charlie's dealing with the choices he made in life and what it has attained him.  He also learns that the happier one becomes, the less freedom one has.  Overall, this book is quite deep and I found myself very much interested in  Charlie despite a slower-than-usual pace.	2001-03-27
US	51204643	R2MDXHR14V7KFV	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great Thriller except the ending.....	This book is the sequel to Silence of the Lambs.  Hannibal Lecter, the cannibalistic madman that escaped from prison in the first book now resides in Florence, Italy as a museum curator.  Once in a while he tantalizingly contacts Clarice Starling and explains that he is still watching out for her.<br />The story gets interesting when Mason Verger gets wind of Lecter's location.   Verger is a multi-millionarie survivor of a Lecter attack.  He has been left crippled and ruined and wants to get revenge on Lecter by feeding Lecter to a pack of hungry pigs.  Mason uses Starling, local politicians, devious Sardinians, and the FBI as pawns as he attempts to lure Lecter into a trap.  However, Lecter proves to be hard to catch, as well as deadly.<br />This book took a little while to get going.  While it held my interest, I was finding it hard to root for anyone.  Lecter certainly isn't worth of any sympathy and neither is Verger and Starling was absent for about half the book.  There is a certain amount of tension as the reader follows Lecter's efforts to thwart Verger, which often are violent and graphic.  However, the ending is utterly ridiculous - probably one of the worst I've read in a long time.  Up to that point, it was a spellbinding, tight read.  It works great as a horror / suspense novel, but as a \\"true-crime novel\\", pathetic.	2001-01-10
US	51204643	R1EVIUAQJ4DXV4	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Decent Mystery...	Kinsey Millhone, a private investigator, lives in Southern California in a town called Saint Teresa (obvious a renamed version of Santa Barbara).  Kinsey is hired out by the 2nd wife of a wealthy lawyer to find out who murdered her husband.  The twist is that the 2nd wife has already served her prison sentence for his murder and the trail has been cold for over 7 years.<br />Kinsey travels around Southern California interviewing everyone that was connected to the murder.  She interviews the lawyer's family, his mistresses, his secretaries.  While on the trail, it is obvious the real murderer still wants the secret kept, as one of her witnesses is mysteriously murdered.  Also, on an attempt to find evidence, she finds that it has been recently tampered with.<br />This novel is a definite page-turner.  My main gripe is that there were too many characters in the book.  I know that Grafton wanted to make the mystery as complicated as possible (just about everyone had a potential motive), but it made it difficult to keep track of them.  I found the love affair between Kinsey and the dead lawyer's partner a little shallow.  While the mystery worked, I didn't feel like the reader was given too much of an opportunity to solve it with Kinsey - it just sort of unfolded.  The ending, while tense, seemed a little bit of a let down... I didn't feel justice was served.  I might be tempted to read other books in the series, as the writing was solid and the story was interesting.	2000-12-22
US	51204643	R3LTC74B0IK2O4	1582018545	376678442	The Gibson Upright (The Works of Booth Tarkington)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Tarkington goes Political!	Written as a play, this book debunks the popular at the time theory that all workers should own all the businesses and that everyone should receive the same pay(from the profits).  The story begins with Andrew Gibson, owner of a piano manufacturing company whose successful product is the &quot;Gibson Upright&quot;.  He is in turmoil with his on-the-verge-of-striking workers.  The workers insist on even more benefits than what they currently have (they have now what resembles our modern day work schedule).  The workers spout their socialistic beliefs in an attempt to get more out of Gibson, claiming he can afford it with all of his riches.<br />Gibson, not wishing to concede to their demands, decides to fulfill their wishes.  In a comical way, he simply hands over the rights to the factory -- letting the leaders of the strikers run it as they see fit.  The workers unite and are excited over this prospect.  However, this new routine quickly becomes their undoing as the factory's accountants leave and the workers become even more lazy.  Of course, as Tarkington can only do, there is a love story here where Gibson and one of the striking workers have a &quot;bond.&quot;<br />This story was incredibly simple and pointed out some of the fallacies of the Socialist movement.  While on some levels, the story works, yet on others it was a bit too contrived.  All in all, though, the book/play was fun to read, despite the somewhat sappy plot and ending.	2000-12-13
US	51204643	R1KJVQ3HHZ8DS6	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great historical novel	Willa Cather's classic cracked this century's top 100 list at number 61.  This book is about a French priest, Father Latour and his partner, Father Vaillant. Father Latour is instructed to take over the position of archbishop in the New Mexico territory during the period following the Civil War.<br />This territory had many renegade (and not so godly) priests that had lost touch with Rome and had adopted pagan beliefs.  In addition, the area was huge and made it a risky proposition for the priests to visit distant parishes.  Together, Father Latour and Father Vaillant discover this new world and run into many challenges as they encounter a variety of characters.  Ultimately, Father Latour and his wisdom make a difference in this territory that is lasting, even after his death.<br />This book was similar to Larry McMurtry's, Lonesome Dove, in the fact that each book gives the reader a very close-up view of what the west was like in that period of time.  Latour's experiences are chronicled in several novellas, some narrating about miracles.  This book was pretty impressive and left me with a greater appreciation for what the missionaries went through when the New Mexico territory was being settled.	2000-12-13
US	51204643	R39W23KO5JT6QG	0450002748	843144390	Instrument	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Interesting Book	The Instrument is primarily focused on the character of Robert Yancey (Yank) Lucas, a playwright who has just written his first play.  He manages to get Broadway to put on his play and in addition, his play catches the attention of Zena Gollum, Broadway's leading actress.<br />Lucas and Zena have a torrid love affair, despite Zena being married.  However, even this is not able to make him happy as Lucas struggles to be himself as his play becomes a huge success.  Eventually the media and fanfare surrounding him begin to encroach on his freedom.  He escapes it all by leaving in the middle of the night and driving to a remote village in Vermont.  There he meets up with a variety of women, whom he beds while writing his next play.<br />I am not sure what to make of this book.  It was an interesting character study as well as the workings of Broadway and show business.  However, Lucas wasn't a very redeeming character and seemed to take his bedroom antics with a touch of &quot;easy come, easy go.&quot;  The writing and story was interesting but, my complaint was that I was a little baffled as to the purpose of the story and what O'Hara was trying to communicate.	2000-11-28
US	51204643	R1OTXSJ2ZFCG69	0679761683	758179399	Blue Belle	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Suspenceful criminal fiction	Mystery writer Vachss continues his series in which Burke, a street-wise ex-con, is reputable for solving crimes that requires inside knowledge.  Money pooled from the pimps of New York hire Burke to solve the mystery of the &quot;Ghost Van&quot;.  This van comes upon under-aged prostitutes and either kidnaps or shoots them without warning.  Burke, having a soft spot for abused children decides this is worth his efforts to eradicate.<br />With the help of a voluptuous exotic dancer, who eventually becomes Burke's girlfriend, Burke and his friends begin to determine who and what is behind the murderous machine.  His inquisitiveness stirs up a rat's nest and eventually leads to an explosive and suspenseful ending.<br />I had a hard time finding sympathy or even caring too much about the characters in the book.  Burke is hardly one to look up as a hero and the way he treated Belle, in general, was lousy.  However, they are both street characters and it fits into their characters.  The mystery was pretty shallow and I felt that most of the book dealt with Burke and Belle's sexual appetites rather than the crime.  The ending also was so rushed that I wasn't sure what was happening, but knew the final result (actually I guessed the final result early on...).  Although not necessary, it probably would've helped if I had read the previous books in the series to know more about Burke's friends.  This book was similar to Stephen Womack's Harry Denton series.	2000-11-16
US	51204643	R2QL9F1UA42W7Q	0060956704	396783920	Giant (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Different love story.....	Ferber tells the story of a rancher, Bick Benedict.  He owns a massive, wealthy, family ranch raising cattle in Texas during the early 1900's.  During a horse buying trip he meets Leslie, a native Virginian who he eventually marries.<br />Leslie, a smart and book learned woman, is the focal point of the story as she learns to adjust to Texas and its grandness.  Ferber goes into detail about life on a ranch and the pride Texans have in their state and culture.  Ferber also doesn't pull any punches about Texas as she shows some of the downsides to Texas -- the terrible racism against Mexican workers, for instance.  Leslie often sees it as very similar to the treatment of the slaves in the 1800's.  The story covers many years and as oil is discovered, Ferber shows how life affected them.<br />The information contained about Texas is invaluable and insightful.  Ferber has done her research.  However, there wasn't much of a story.  Any time there was a threat into the happiness of the Benedict's, it was circumvented or turned out not to be a threat.  While interesting on some levels, as a whole, the book failed to deliver on an interesting story throughout.  There were periods of interest, but generally I was happy when I was able to put it down.	2000-11-14
US	51204643	R2JJSH1Z1S1DOF	9997501470	142244623	So Little Time	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Long book about the start of WW2	This book tells the story of Jeffrey Wilson, a success writer, who's job is to fix plays that have potential but are lacking something.  Jeffrey Wilson lives in New York with his wife and children.  However, at the brink of the story, World War II has broken out and there is much debate and anxiety as to whether the United States will enter the war.<br />The story is actually a series of events as Jeffrey and the nation change their attitudes about their involvement with the war.  Jeffrey also deals with his stale marriage and his relationship with his eldest son, Jim, who inevitably will be on the front lines if the United States enters the war.  Jeffrey recalls his World War I days and how that changed him and fears what another world war will do to his son.  With the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Jeffrey realizes that time is short and he encourages his son to get the most out of life now, as there may be no tomorrow.<br />This book was a little bit dry.  There really wasn't much tension and Jeffrey wasn't all that interesting.  Marquand, however, captures the era between World War I and II and writes about it so that there is a tremendous amount of social history contained in this long book.  All in all, though, I was glad to put it down and the ending didn't have the impact I would've hoped.  If you are interested in learning about the early 40's and the United States' feelings towards the war in Europe, this book is outstanding, otherwise the book is fairly dull.	2000-11-02
US	51204643	R2LJX3G98JY8AF	0060956712	781919842	Saratoga Trunk (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Love and Revenge Story	Ferber tales the story of Clio Dulaine -- an illegitimate French girl who comes to New Orleans after residing in Paris for most of her life.  The story is set in the mid 1800's.  Clio and her entourage include: Kaka, a voodoo-like nurse maid and her colorful friend Cupide -- a dwarf.  Clio's ultimately goal is to reveal to her upper class blood grandparents who she is and blackmail them.<br />Clio is successful at this but while scheming she falls in love with Clint Maroon -- a flamboyant cowboy from the rough country Texas.  They clash with each other, but ultimately there is a bond.  When the scheme with Clio's grandparents forces them to move on they decide to go to Saratoga, New York.  Saratoga, at this period of time, was a vacation resort area where many rich people spent their time.  Clio schemes for more money by chumming up with the plentiful, wealthy bachelors.  However, her bond and feelings for Clint causes problems.<br />This story was interesting in the fact that it reveals what it must have been like to live in New Orleans at this period of time.  In addition, Ferber paints a luxurious picture of the resort-like community of Saratoga.  Clint is quite a character and the two of them complement one another (Clio reminded me of Scarlett O'Hara in many ways).  While Clio was a hard one to like, the book does keep one interested.  I felt Ferber's main point was that there may have been armed robberies and anarchy in the west at that period of time, but the east had its share of crime.  Graft, economic warfare (even leading to violence), and greed nearly ruined the country.  Overall, another interesting book that teaches something about the American social aspects of living in the middle/late 1800's.	2000-09-25
US	51204643	R3PXC4H8A5QS7C	0884115968	627508491	American Beauty	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable book	&quot;True&quot; Baldwin, an aging millionaire, is ordered by his doctor  to get out of the Chicago after the 1929 stock market crash takes a toll on  his health.  His daughter takes him for a drive to Connecticut to visit his  birthplace.  When True last knew the place, it was a rural farm land that  was known for its crops of tobacco.  Still having money, he is interested  in purchasing a farm house and taking up farming.<br />True remembers his lost  love, Judy Oakes.  The Oakes were a historic family -- having owned the  largest plantation in the county.  However, Judy is long dead but her  majestic house still stands.  Ferber takes the reader into a long journey  into the past concerning the history of this domicile.  The story starts in  1700, with some of the first Americans to settle in the area.  It covers  the growth and struggles of the people there:  their interaction with  Indians, the harsh winters, and taming the land.<br />Ferber has done her  homework and appears to know the ins and outs of tobacco farming.  She also  knows the mores and living conditions of the Polish farmers.  The primary  focus of the book is a love story set in the late 1890's.  Judy's adopted  niece (a reincarnation of an Oakes who died from exposure in the 1700's)  and her hired Polish man, Ondy, fall in love and try to continue the Oakes'  family line.<br />The book was interesting and I found myself absorbed.  The  characters are colorful and add charm to this book.  It certainly wasn't  action packed and there wasn't much as far as suspense, but it caught my  fancy.  I think the book has historical and social interest and I learned  about what it must have been like to live in the late 1800's on a  Connecticut tobacco farm.  The title appears to come from the appreciation  of all the events that went into making the Oakes' mansion. Ferber's clear  writing is similar to Ellen Glasgow without the feminist overtone.	2000-09-06
US	51204643	R2TNWLNUKP1KK1	0449000419	792813592	Toward the End of Time: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Interesting Book	Updike's semi-science fiction novel is set in the United States in the year 2020.  The United States has been ruined by a war against China.   Bands of independent ruffians regulate territories and demand payment for  protection.  The primary focus of the story, however, is about Ben  Trumball, a sixty-six year old retired investment broker who lives in a  rural part of Massachusetts.<br />Through the course of a year, Trumball keeps  a diary with his reflections on time and his life.  Ben isn't the most  likeable character.  He has cheated on his first wife and cheats on his  current wife.  He is motivated by meaningless sex.  Despite this, Ben  questions the purpose of life and the meaning of time.  He regrets that he  hasn't made much of a difference. Throughout the book he is gaining  consciousness that his life will be ending soon as well as the  world's.<br />This wasn't the world's most exciting book.  There was little  tension.  Luckily, Updike's excellent writing and character portrayal of  Ben, carry the book forward.  Also, the descriptions and situations of the  new world are morbid and provide a possibility as to what may happen in the  future.	2000-09-01
US	51204643	R3TBCJDLPN4I4K	0471332291	926292160	Mastering Enterprise JavaBeans and the Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent Book	Finally, after working my way through several weighty tomes on the subject  of Enterprise Javabeans, I have discovered a book that explains the subject  thoroughly and in friendly, concise format.  The first few chapters give  the subject a broad overview.  This can be a bit weighty, but is important  to gain a total view of the technology. <br />Finally, in chapters 3 through  6, Roman begins the subject of Session beans.  He starts off basic --  explaining the concept behind the beans and evolving one to a  fully-featured worker.  The examples make sense and demonstrate the concept  presented.  Several more chapters are dedicated to the other side of EJB,  the entity beans.  Roman also covers several details about transactions and  integrating your bean with JSP and servlets.  The book also covered more  details in the J2EE spec like Corba / RMI, JNDI but with less  detail.<br />While the book is arguably misnamed (it doesn't cover everything  in the J2EE specification) it does, however, do an excellent job covering  EJB's.  His examples are appropriate and meaningful.  About my only gripe  about the book is the lack of deployment descriptors -- they are almost  completely absent.  I realize that the XML file is based upon your  application server's requirements, but this was left as a bit of a black  hole.  In conclusion, I wouldn't attempt to read this book without a solid  understanding of Java.  A dabbling in JSPs and / or servlets is also  helpful.  Overall, this is an excellent introduction and learning tool.	2000-08-25
US	51204643	R2VA7YQQ1DS9QM	0375400060	792813592	Toward the End of Time	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting book	Updike's semi-science fiction novel is set in the United States in the year 2020.  The United States has been ruined by a war against China.   Bands of independent ruffians regulate territories and demand payment for  protection.  The primary focus of the story, however, is about Ben  Trumball, a sixty-six year old retired investment broker who lives in a  rural part of Massachusetts.<br />Through the course of a year, Trumball keeps  a diary with his reflections on time and his life.  Ben isn't the most  likeable character.  He has cheated on his first wife and cheats on his  current wife.  He is motivated by meaningless sex.  Despite this, Ben  questions the purpose of life and the meaning of time.  He regrets that he  hasn't made much of a difference. Throughout the book he is gaining  consciousness that his life will be ending soon as well as the  world's.<br />This wasn't the world's most exciting book.  There was little  tension.  Luckily, Updike's excellent writing and character portrayal of  Ben, carry the book forward.  Also, the descriptions and situations of the  new world are morbid and provide a possibility as to what may happen in the  future.	2000-08-25
US	51204643	R7ZXNX8IENTOH	158201857X	547973085	Harlequin & Columbine	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Funny Tarkington	This book is a short novel about the production of a play.  Stewart Camby has spent the past two years writing and polishing his masterpiece.  The  book starts at the beginning of dress rehearsals.  Camby's cast and  managerial staff includes a wide variety of characters that cause  ultimately Camby consternation.<br />For instance, the famous, lead actor  Talbot Potter constantly insists that the Camby change the play to suit  him.  Talbot, a bachelor, is also smitten with Wanda Malone, the ingenue.   He wants her part to stand out and eventually have his character fall in  love with her (which mirrors his real life feelings for Wanda).  Camby's  once perfect play must suit Talbot's fickle tastes as Camby himself becomes  infatuated with Wanda.  Before the end of the book, Camby's play has  changed drastically from what it used to be to hold the actor's  interest.<br />Tarkington writes an interesting and funny look at the  production of a play.  The neurotic characters are a joy.  However, the  start of the book was a little confusing, but once the story gets rolling  the characters come alive.  The ending was also a surprise and made the  book worthwhile.	2000-08-23
US	51204643	R2VG9WUBV0EEV6	0897460073	982212151	The Gambling Times Guide to Greyhound Racing	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Great Resource	This book was exactly what I needed to round out my education on Greyhound racing.  The first few chapters cover the basics -- how racing works, what  to expect, and how the percentages pay.  It is fairly elementary for  someone who has been at the track a few times but there were a few  lingering questions I had that this book answered.<br />The crux of the book  is McBride's system for long-term profit making at the track.  From his  numbers, one would guess it would work.  In short, his strategy is to take  a months' races and categorize them.  By doing an analysis on the post  position, early leader, class changes, late speed and maneuvering ability,  one can see which patterns becoming more distinct.  Knowing that early  speed racers, for instance, do well at a particular track would be a  definite advantage.  Each track has its own advantages and  disadvantages.<br />I noted some of the mistakes that I was making and some of  the knowledge I had picked up the hard way (by losing).  However, McBride's  system doesn't really appear to be for the casual gamer.  It appears it  would take at least an hour before a race to score a guide and just  generating the 30 races worth of data could be time consuming (at least an  hour or two an evening).  The math behind the grading process is very  simple and could easily be done by a computer program.  Also, McBride's  system is not for the &quot;cheap&quot; gambler.  He advocates betting a 4  or 5 (around $12 - $24 a race) box trifecta for maximum winnings.  His  experience and samples indicate this is the highest pay off percentage.	2000-08-21
US	51204643	R3CG1KW1ODRWHN	0781236185	606287831	Try And Trust; Abner Holden's Bound Boy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Typical Alger	This predictable rags to riches story is about Herbert Mason, a  fourteen-year-old boy who is left parentless with the death of his mother.  He must fend for himself in the world.  Being courageous and hard working,  Herbert begins to earn money for himself in his small rural  town.<br />However, he is adopted by a mean farmer who treats Herbert poorly.  Herbert eventually finds the courage to run away.  With the help of some  friends, he goes to New York City to fend for himself.  While there, he  becomes gainfully employed and works his way up.  During each tribulation  (several robbers try to rob him, he is wrongly accused of stealing, etc) he  &quot;tries and trusts&quot; in God.<br />If you've read other Alger books,  you can probably guess what is coming next in this story.  There are few  surprises.  However, the book was mildly entertaining and as always,  Alger's characters are honest and forthright.	2000-08-21
US	51204643	R2HA0P65W5XQKR	0781236304	534094670	The works [of] John Adams, second President of the United States. 10 Volumes	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Typical Alger	Another typical installment in Alger's rags to riches theme.  Alger writes  the story of Scott Walton and his father, who are coming to America from  England.  While traveling, his father dies unexpectedly, leaving Scott an  orphan.  However, Scott does have the advantage of having an established  distant cousin in New York.  His father recommends he look the Littles up  for help.<br />Scott does as his father bids him to do.  Mr. Little is  tight-fisted and treats Scott shabbily.  He underpays Scott while Scott  works in his dry-goods store.  Scott also has trouble with Little's son --  Loammi, who is a snob and implicates Scott in a robbery that Loammi  committed.  Luckily, Scott is a good-natured boy and he makes many friends  who come to his rescue.  He is industrious and through his natural selling  ability, is able to rise from a poor boy to one of some  affluence.<br />Although far-fetched, this book was fun to read.  Alger  stresses that young men should be respectful of their elders and work hard.   Scott is honest and diligent in all his efforts, making him a worthy hero.	2000-08-14
US	51204643	R2MWQ7QQM3LN5	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting book	Rabbit, Run is one of Updike's famous books, in which he describes a 26-year-old's midlife crisis.  A former high-school basketball star, Harry  (&quot;Rabbit&quot;) Angstrom realizes that his life is in a rut when he  plays against some youths.  It also dawns on him that his marriage is also  lifeless and empty -- his pregnant wife is an alcoholic and his job is  insipid.<br />Seeing nothing for him, Rabbit's solution to the problem is to  run away.  Living in Pennsylvania, he drives down to West Virginia and then  back to help clear his mind.  He meets his former coach who introduces him  to Ruth, a prostitute.  Rabbit and her  have a passionate relationship.   This unconventional situation only rooks him into a new routine -- one that  he feels he must escape from. Despite help from the local minister, Rabbit  feels that people are trying to con him into a pattern into life -- one  that he isn't happy with.<br />I couldn't make up my mind whether to root for  Rabbit or look at him as a sorry individual.  He is struggling for an  identity, but every time he escapes, he leaves disaster and grief behind  him.  In addition, Updike asks the question, what moral responsibilities do  people have versus their personal freedom and indentity?  Updike's writing  is strong and often times poetic.  However, I found some of the symbolism  and ephanies a little hard to grasp (even after several rereads).  Some of  the tense scenes were also written abstractly.  This book is also not for  children; there are many sexual situations.	2000-08-14
US	51204643	R522XRD4BWI8Q	0782125387	18855681	Mastering SQL	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent Intro to SQL	This book was extremely useful in learning SQL.  I had virtually no SQL  background prior to reading this book, but Gruber's writing soon made  interacting with this powerful database easy.  The book starts off with an  introduction to databases and then quickly delves into how to query, insert  and update data into a database.<br />The examples in the book are down to  earth and illustrate what the author is attempting to show.  The result  sets are also clearly displayed.  Helpful questions and answers appear at  the end of each chapter.  Gruber also covers more complex searching and  eventually gets into the more complicated portions of SQL:  rights  management, indices, optimization and Java interaction.  There is also a  helpful (and lengthy) appendix at the end that covers SQL commands.<br />The  first part of the book was extremely helpful to me.  I felt confident in  the what I was learning and Gruber's explanations made sense.  However, the  material was a bit a dry.  The same data set was used throughout and while  being helpful in the fact that it was familiar, it didn't liven up the  book.  I found the middle portion of book somewhat helpful; the information  was sort of sketchy and wasn't as comprehensive as I would have hoped.   <br />If one quickly wants to learn how to manipulate an SQL, this book is a  definite must-have.  It is easy to find information and the material was  presented in a logical format.  However, I'd go to a more heavy duty book  on database management rather than this one for those topics.	2000-08-07
US	51204643	R2CRGZI69NG3Q8	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Great Historical Novel	Doctorow's historical novel, Ragtime, cracks this century's top 100 novels  around position 75.  The story, whose setting is in New York during the  early 1900's, has several non-fictional characters in it.  The reader  catches a personal look at escape artist Houdini, investor and millionaire  J.P. Morgan, mechanical inventor Henry Ford, and feminist Emma  Goldman.<br />Inadvertently, these characters play an important part in  causing an event that involved a Negro looking for justice.  Coalhouse  Walker was a ragtime musician whose car was wrecked by jealous firemen.   Walker, seeking restoration of his car, escalates the fight after going to  authorities.  He fails to find justice and eventually a group of his men  hold Morgan's museum / library in New York City as hostage and cause a  stand off until the leader of the firemen restores his car.  <br />At the  start, the reader is lead to think he is getting an expose into the lives  that made the early 1900's.  However, there is a sense that Doctorow is  taking the reader somewhere, but it isn't revealed until midway.  Doctorow  has done his research and captures the turmoil and amazement of the period  perfectly.  If you like this period of American History, this book will  certainly interest you.	2000-08-06
US	51204643	R2QQDLVJTDCX7D	0452280028	870933522	Billy Bathgate	Books	4	8	11	N	N	First Doctorow Experience	In Billy Bathgate, Doctorow writes a coming of age book about a 15-year-old boy from the Bronx.  The story is set in the late 20's and  early 30's.  Billy, for all practical purposes, is an orphan who grows up  on the tenement-lined streets.  His life changes when he ingratiates  himself with a local mobster named Dutch Schultz.  <br />Billy, at first, runs  simple errands; gathering coffee and donuts and delivering money.  Dutch,  however, likes the kid and starts to train him for future endvours.  Billy  likes the money but soon realizes he is in thicker than he wants to be.   However, the Mafia is his family and there can be no escape.  The book  takes Billy through the dangerous and exciting rise and fall of Dutch's  empire.<br />Doctorow writes a compelling novel in the sense that Doctorow has  done his homework.  There is a sense of authenticity when reading the  historical and scenic descriptions.  Billy's love scenes and the gritty  action were described almost poetically.  However, what turned me off was  the writing itself.  Too many run on sentences and often times I found that  the scene changed, often radically, without any help to the reader.  It was  like a page or paragraph was missing.  While the characters were colorful  and interesting, I didn't have as much sympathy with Billy as I would have  hoped.  There is some sexual content, so young readers should be cautioned.   Otherwise a pretty good story, especially if you like this historical era.	2000-08-04
US	51204643	R1J12WOP5V0MLH	0201604469	212876074	Enterprise JavaBeans(TM): Developing Component-Based Distributed Applications	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Better books abound...	Valesky's book tries to cover the subject of Enterprise Javabeans in 323 pages.  He starts with an excellent description and overview of the technologies available to the programmer and compares and contrasts them  with EJB.  The book's worthiness tends to drop at that point.  Chapter 2 is  an exhaustive and brain numbing chapter covering all the classes, methods  and properties of EJB.  By the end of this chapter my brain was reeling  with information overload.<br />Chapter 3, actually was an excellent chapter,  giving a short and sweet example of EJB.  I felt like what I actually read  in Chapter 2 made sense despite the overload.  However, the book goes  permanently downhill afterwards.  A supposed &quot;simple example&quot; in  the following chapters cover an e-commerce system which is so big that the  code was listed entirely in an appendix.  I certainly couldn't qualify that  as &quot;simple&quot; and made it extremely difficult to learn the basic  concepts.  Worse, he provides little explanation for his code examples.   More or less it was presented, &quot;Here's a code snippet that does X --  check it out&quot;.<br />I think I could get much more out of the Sun doc  pages.  I was extremely frustrated with the book and its treatment of EJB.   Ed Roman's book was so much better.	2000-07-27
US	51204643	R3955CVG9V8XON	0201485435	145938621	XML and Java: Developing Web Applications	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good Book	This book covers interfacing Java and XML using a variety of techniques.  It introduces the use of a DOM parser and a SAX parser.  They use (recommend) IBM's source code.  It does an excellent job covering these  techniques and shows the reader how to parse sample XML documents.   However, it was a bit spartan in its treatment of the DOM API, but they  admit that it would be quite lengthy.<br />The book then attempts to cover a  variety of places where one would use Java and XML.  I felt that this was  not necessary.  A programmer who reads this book is probably advanced  enough to know the constaints and issues of his/her system without having  to decipher the author's cryptic helper functions.  While some are useful,  I felt that the authors' examples were more unique to their problems,  rather than generic.<br />Although not a comprehensive book, I felt the first  couple of chapters are about all a professional level programmer should  read.  The feeling of the book was that the authors wanted to make a book  out of a relatively small topic.  If you already know a SAX parser or a DOM  parser, the usefulness of the book declines.  If you need an overview of  Javabeans or JDBC then some of the chapters might be helpful.  In closing,  I would NOT attempt to read this book without a basic understanding of  Java, HTML and XML.	2000-07-27
US	51204643	RWZRAC4GB1KVG	0451402103	992416414	Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder (Onyx)	Books	4	75	77	N	N	Good true crime read	I am not huge true crime genre reader, but Bledsoe writes a story about two murders in the south during the mid-80's that captured my interest.  Bledsoe does deep and wide investigative research into the infamous murders  of a widow and a daughter in Kentucky and how they were connected with  another multiple murder in Winston-Salem.<br />In detail, Bledsoe portrays the  various players.  The reader gets an engrossing detail into the detectives  that researched the case.  In addition, the victims' lives were intimately  discussed.  The story reads like a mystery, taking the reader through the  possible suspects.  Ultimately, the victims were related to a bitter child  custody battle between Tom Lynch and his ex-wife Susie Lynch and the  shocking insanity of the criminal becomes clearer.<br />I didn't know anything  about this case before reading the book.  It was a little slow to start,  often times tedious.  I felt at times that Bledsoe was giving me more  information than I needed or cared to know.  However, as the book  progressed, the details that Bledsoe were revealing were more relevant and  showed the nature behind crime.  Bledsoe had definitely done his research.   The book also asks more questions than it answers -- leaving the window  open to speculation and ones questions that probably will never be  answered.	2000-07-24
US	51204643	RLWVZ6WP9D5NY	0899684505	857385996	Brave & Bold	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Typical Alger	Alger tells the story of a perspicacious young man named Robert Rushton.  Like many other Alger stories, Rushton is a poor boy working in a factory in the country town of Millville with his widowed mother.  Through his  industry, he and his mother are able to subsist happily.  <br />However, when  Rushton is fired from his factory job because the boss's son dislikes him,  Rushton must fend for himself.  Luckily, he is able to:  rescue an old man  who is being robbed, save a train load of people, and fish for a living.   The main event of the story, however, is when Robert receives notice that  his father may be a live (he was lost at sea).  Robert, decides to explore  the world in search of him -- which takes him as far as Calcutta.<br />This  book was extremely far-fetched, though it is a children's adventure book.   The reader easily picks up on Robert's better characteristics.  Alger gives  Robert the virtues of American &quot;stick to itness&quot; as well as being  honest, healthy and forthright.  This one was fun and interesting, albeit  predictable.	2000-07-24
US	51204643	R1TLXM3E2CJLV6	156592391X	873973445	Java Servlet Programming (Java Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Book	I usually approach O'Reilly books with extreme caution.  They tend to be ponderous pieces of work that clobber the reader with too much detail without being helpful (or interesting).  This book is a nice  departure.<br />The book covers Java Servlet programming assuming you know  Java and HTML (I wouldn't read this book unless you are very comfortable  with both topics).  It shows good examples of the basics of Java servlets  and how they are used.  The book's many examples are also short and sweet  (for the most part).  They deliver a concept without inundating the reader  with pages of code.  Pictures of the resulting HTML screen are used  judiciously as well.<br />If you need to know the basics of servlets, read the  first few chapters.  If you need more details, Hunter provides them in the  following chapters.  He covers passing graphics, session tracking (an  excellent chapter), some security, database connectivity (the basics of  JDBC) and other odds and ends.  The book is showing its age a little, but  otherwise this book is a gem -- one of the few that gets everything right.	2000-07-21
US	51204643	R1BL0VCIRVMSBE	0201704218	508315590	JavaServer Pages	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mixed Bag	I remember in high school my writing teachers always said, &quot;Show, don't tell&quot; as a premise for good fiction writing.  Pekowsky follows this flawed (at least for computer book writing) ideology by giving the  reader a ton of code examples, but fails to explain them thoroughly.  He  also referred to nebulous technologies as if the reader knew a lot about  them especially at the start of the book.<br />The first part of the book  appears geared towards a web page designer rather than a programmer.   Pekowsky keeps the Javabean code examples as a black box (a very(!)  confusing one, none the less) and in fact does a disservice to the reader.   The bean code was contained on the Cd Rom, but when I was reading this in  bed, it made it extremely difficult to see what exactly was going on.  In  addition, I was completely baffled in Chapter 4 where he describes  interfacing with a Javabean.  This chapter was probably one of the worst  chapters that I've read in a computer book in recent memory.  <br />Later, his  book switches over to teach the reader Javabeans and Java.  The coverage  isn't enough to help someone new to the technology and in some cases major  details were left out and covered extremely broadly.  However, there might  be enough to refresh a veteran programmer or one who has a high aptitude  for picking up something through spartan writing.  I wouldn't attempt to  read this book without a thorough knowledge of:  HTML, Java, and Javabeans.   All in all, I found this book a half way decent overview of the technology  (despite being somewhat dry), but I'd hate to use it as my basis for  learning JSP.  <br />Finally, the organization could've been improved (show me  Java beans earlier and show the code in print).  I liked that they kept the  examples short and sweet.  Will pick up Professional JSP by Wrox to get the  details.	2000-07-18
US	51204643	R19COSF7WQGBB	0881842222	529200877	Nightmare Alley	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Cool Thriller	Gresham writes a suspenseful and &quot;not so nice&quot; story about Stanton Carlisle -- a young man who starts his working career in freak / carnival show.  Stanton and his friends travel around the country bilking  people into believing that Stan can predict the future.  Gresham reveals  the tricks of the trade as he shows how fortunetellers and mind readers  conduct their business.<br />Stanton wants the big time action and he has the  ability to go far.  He is glib, charismatic and a skilled cold  fortuneteller.  After marrying fellow carnival worked Molly, he and she go  to work acquiring larger targets.  After becoming a mail-order minister,  they conduct seances and allow rich people to communicate with the dead.   Stanton and Molly and rewarded handsomely.  However, even that isn't enough  as Stan pushes his luck and goes after a major capitalist in order to clear  huge amounts of money.<br />The gritty writing is similar James M. Cain's  (Double Indemnity and The Postman Always Rings Twice) and is unafraid to  reveal the characters' seedier nature. The format of the book is also  clever -- showing Stanton's rise to power (and ultimate demise) through the  use of tarot cards at the start of each chapter.  My only complaint was  that it was sometimes hard to follow.  I found that at the start of almost  every chapter I felt a sense of disorientation until I figured out what was  going on.  The continuity was weak.  However, I liked the book tremendously  -- especially when it revealed Stanton's ruses.	2000-06-30
US	51204643	R35LNBC5V1QNVQ	0781235596	576813959	The Writings of George Washington from the Original Manuscript Sources 1745-1799 Volume 13 October 1, 1778-January 11, 1779	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Another Rags to Riches Story	Alger writes another of his formulaic stories of a poor country poor boy named Chester Rand.  Chester and his widowed mother live on Chester's small wages from the country store.  When Chester is laid off for someone who'll  work for less money, Chester must find a new way to earn money.<br />Through  his kindness, generosity, honesty and goodwill, Chester makes friends who  urge him to go to New York.  Soon he is working for $5 a week in a real  estate office as an office boy.  He also finds that he has a talent drawing  comics, which earns him far more money.  His drawing skills eventually earn  him a high paying job and Chester finds himself becoming more independent.  <br />Rand is an enviable character:  his is meticulously honest, hard-working  loyal and abstains from drinking, gambling, and tobacco.  Alger's stories  always imparts the wisdom that hard work and honesty pay off and those that  wander from the straight and narrow eventually pay a price.	2000-06-30
US	51204643	R12EW9PSNTYYSG	0963909606	292009660	Black Point	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Romantic / Time Travel Story	Burke writes an interesting romantic fantasy story whose setting is close to home.  The story takes place around Lake Geneva, Wisconsin and the surrounding McHenry County Illinois area.<br />The story starts out with  Jeremy Sloan, a mid 30-year-old lawyer, riding his bicycle around Lake  Geneva.  Accidentally, he is hit by a car and flies over his handle bars.   He blacks out and when he awakens, finds himself transported back in time  to Lake Geneva, Wisconsin circa 1895.<br />Awkwardly, Jeremy adapts to the  life and through the help of several kind people finds a job constructing  the Observatory, which is there in reality.  Even with the help of his  friends, though, his life isn't easy.  He must contend with a sheriff who  has taken a grudge against him and yet wonder if he'll ever go back to his  regular time dimension.  Through his adventures, however, he falls in love  with his boss's daughter, Lora.  Using his knowledge of the future he saves  her from certain death when he finds out that she'll be on a boat that will  sink in a storm.<br />I liked the ending on this book tremendously.  Burke  wrapped up Jeremy's and Lora's relationship in a satisfactory way.   However, as far as a time-travel story, the book had a lot of cliches and  was predictable in some areas.  This book will have special appeal to  readers who live in the locale where the story takes place as Burke drops  various sites and city names into the story -- giving it more credence.   All in all, a half way decent fantasy / romantic novel.	2000-06-30
US	51204643	R12Z1H1SCVQ7RZ	0781235596	576813959	The Writings of George Washington from the Original Manuscript Sources 1745-1799 Volume 13 October 1, 1778-January 11, 1779	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Typical Alger	Alger writes another of his formulaic stories of a poor country poor boy named Chester Rand.  Chester and his widowed mother live on Chester's small wages from the country store.  When Chester is laid off for someone who'll  work for less money, Chester must find a new way to earn money.<br />Through  his kindness, generosity, honesty and goodwill, Chester makes friends who  urge him to go to New York.  Soon he is working for $5 a week in a real  estate office as an office boy.  He also finds that he has a talent drawing  comics, which earns him far more money.  His drawing skills eventually earn  him a high paying job and Chester finds himself becoming more  independent.<br />Rand is an enviable character:  his is meticulously honest,  hard-working loyal and abstains from drinking, gambling, and tobacco.   Alger's stories always imparts the wisdom that hard work and honesty pay  off and those that wander from the straight and narrow eventually pay a  price.	2000-06-27
US	51204643	RGZISOXNI8G56	0252062825	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Prairie State Books)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A classic	Not since Dreiser's, &quot;An American Tragedy&quot;, have I read a book that described the spiritual depravity of teen age youth and the ignorance that accompanies it.  Farrell's masterpiece made the top 100 for this  century at #29 and certainly deserves its place there.<br />The book is  actually three shorter books combined into one massive saga about a young  man named Bill &quot;Studs&quot; Lonigan.  Studs is a Catholic,  Irish-American who lives in the rough and tumble neighborhood of Chicago  during the early portion of this century.  The story starts off with Studs  being 15 and thinking he knows everything and willing to prove it with his  fists.  Dropping out of high school to hang around a pool room, he and his  friends primarily engage in fights, drinking and picking up women. <br />Studs  is the leader of the gang is always feels the need to prove himself by  fighting and out drinking his friends.  Despite hearing lectures from his  priest about the dangers of drink and sex, he continues to engage in these  activities.  However, time takes it toll on Studs's health.  By 1930 the  Depression and his failing health (from his activities in his 20's) force  him to realize that he isn't the man who used to be.  <br />Farrell depicts  the turbulent times perfectly.  The reader is draw into the descriptions  and accounts of Chicago at the end of the first World War, the socialist  movement, the rise in popularity of Sinclair Lewis, and many other events.   The roaring 20's are also written about and the reader is taken through  gambling halls, speakeasies, and whore houses.  Farrell paints a very bleak  picture of the Depression as well.<br />While there doesn't seem to be many  answers in the book, it does depict that ignorance and a lack of  spirituality wreaks havoc upon lives.  While it is one thing to have  religious rules and regulations, it is another to live them.  The reader  can be intimidated by the page count on the book, but it is well worth  reading.  It easily made my list for one of the 10 best books I've read in  my lifetime.	2000-06-26
US	51204643	RLQJY8E3T7HOD	0963909606	292009660	Black Point	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting Romantic / Time Travel Story	Burke writes an interesting romantic fantasy story whose setting is close to home.  The story takes place around Lake Geneva, Wisconsin and the surrounding McHenry County Illinois area.<br />The story starts out with  Jeremy Sloan, a mid 30-year-old lawyer, riding his bicycle around Lake  Geneva.  Accidentally, he is hit by a car and flies over his handle bars.   He blacks out and when he awakens, finds himself transported back in time  to Lake Geneva, Wisconsin circa 1895.<br />Awkwardly, Jeremy adapts to the  life and through the help of several kind people finds a job constructing  the Observatory, which is there in reality.  Even with the help of his  friends, though, his life isn't easy.  He must contend with a sheriff who  has taken a grudge against him and yet wonder if he'll ever go back to his  regular time dimension.  Through his adventures, however, he falls in love  with his boss's daughter, Lora.  Using his knowledge of the future he saves  her from certain death when he finds out that she'll be on a boat that will  sink in a storm.<br />I liked the ending on this book tremendously.  Burke  wrapped up Jeremy's and Lora's relationship in a satisfactory way.   However, as far as a time-travel story, the book had a lot of cliches and  was predictable in some areas.  This book will have special appeal to  readers who live in the locale where the story takes place as Burke drops  various sites and city names into the story -- giving it more credence.   All in all, a half way decent fantasy / romantic novel.	2000-06-26
US	51204643	R1K5GUCX2IQR8K	0252062825	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Prairie State Books)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Excellent	Not since Dreiser's, &quot;An American Tragedy&quot;, have I read a book that described the spiritual depravity of teen age youth and the ignorance that accompanies it.  Farrell's masterpiece made the top 100 for this  century at #29 and certainly deserves its place there.<br />The book is  actually three shorter books combined into one massive saga about a young  man named Bill &quot;Studs&quot; Lonigan.  Studs is a Catholic,  Irish-American who lives in the rough and tumble neighborhood of Chicago  during the early portion of this century.  The story starts off with Studs  being 15 and thinking he knows everything and willing to prove it with his  fists.  Dropping out of high school to hang around a pool room, he and his  friends primarily engage in fights, drinking and picking up women. <br />Studs  is the leader of his friends and always feels the need to prove himself by  fighting and out drinking them.  Despite hearing lectures from his priest  about the dangers of drink and sex, he continues to engage in these  activities.  However, time takes it toll on Studs's health.  By 1930, the  Depression and his failing health (from his activities in his 20's) force  him to realize that he isn't the man who used to be.  <br />Farrell depicts  the turbulent times perfectly.  The reader is draw into the descriptions  and accounts of Chicago at the end of the first World War, the socialist  movement, the rise in popularity of Sinclair Lewis, and many other events.   The roaring 20's are also written about and the reader is taken through  gambling halls, speakeasies, and whore houses.  Farrell paints a very bleak  picture of the Depression as well.<br />While there doesn't seem to be many  answers in the book, it does depict that ignorance and a lack of  spirituality wreaks havoc upon lives.  While it is one thing to have  religious rules and regulations, it is another to live them.  The reader  can be intimidated by the page count, but it is well worth reading.  It  easily made my list for one of the 10 best books I've read in my lifetime.	2000-06-20
US	51204643	R3F8FTYUI5AZBG	1582018286	592073828	The Moneychangers (The Collected Works of Upton Sinclair Series American Authors Volume 0828)	Books	4	75	81	N	N	Thriller / Suspense / Mystery of sorts.....	Muckraker, Upton Sinclair, tells the fictionalized story of the Wall Street panic of 1907.  The panic, according to Sinclair, was orchestrated by several very powerful capitalists in order to dethrone a rival trust  company.  They did this because man's revenge over being smitten by a  woman, to put the anti-trust President in his place, and greed.  The ruin  of the rival trust company caused a stock market crash and a bank rush  which ultimately cost thousands their jobs and savings and put the entire  world into financial turmoil.<br />The story is told through the eyes of Allan  Montague -- a successful lawyer living in New York.  Through the course of  the story he becomes introduced to several power players -- many of whom  have millions riding in the stock market.  These big players, also use  fronts and shill companies whose only purpose is to sell things -- they do  not make anything.  This gets the public and the government to invest in  their companies which ultimately go bankrupt.<br />The players in the story  aren't too terribly interested in money.  They use it as points and live to  out maneuver the other.  Sinclair reveals the back room shanagans of the  stock market and the manipulations they pulled on the market.  In addition,  he points out the press was unable to print the &quot;truth&quot; on  account that many of the corporations owned the newspapers.<br />The book was  a little hard to follow despite Sinclair's lucid writing style.  There were  many players in the story, many making brief and periodic appearances.   Also, the economic theory behind the maneuverings could leave a reader a  little bewildered if they aren't up on the subject of trusts, stocks, high  finance and corporations.  Although, I suspect that many of the  manipulations the capitalists did have been corrected thanks to modern  checks and safeguards, the book does reveal the vast amount of corruption  on all levels of the American system:  the government, banks, and otherbusinesses manipulating other businesses.  This book was almost a thriller  / mystery and was entertaining and informative throughout.	2000-06-10
US	51204643	R2FV5HD3WBDB7B	0449912426	468144554	Three Comrades: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent Love Story	Remarque writes a great tragic love story, set in Germany prior to Hitler's ultimate rise to power.  Much of the turmoil of pre-World War II Germany is left out and plays only a minor role, unlike Remarque's  &quot;The Black Obelisk&quot;.  This first person narrative, starts off  with Bob -- a thirty-year-old mechanic and his two friends.  Together, they  own an auto repair shop and gas station.  The bleak economic conditions at  the time, force them to be taxi drivers and used car sellers as well.  The  friends are pretty tight and spend their time drinking, auto racing and  supporting one another.<br />Through a chance encounter, Patricia comes into  Bob's life on day -- she is a mysterious and beautiful woman.  Patricia and  Bob eventually fall in love and much of the novel chronicles their  adventures and their caring for one another.  There are some several side  jaunts that discuss Bob's relationships with his friends and acquaintances.  The crux of the story, however, is that all is not well with Patricia and  Bob's relationship with her is limited by time.<br />The story bordered on  being excellent.  I burned through the pages and had a hard time putting it  down.  Remarque's masterful dialog and narratives kept me captivated; some  of them were poetic.  I became attached to the characters and cared what  happened to them, especially to Bob and Patricia. I was a bit spoiled on  account that I had read Remarque's &quot;Heaven has no Favorites,&quot;  which has a very similar plot and ending.  The last quarter of the book was  almost duplicated from that story.  Remarque's message is clear though:  live life to the fullest and take advantage of every moment, good and bad.	2000-06-08
US	51204643	RA5207YEFCUYM	0375753761	966622039	Howards End (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Class British Literature	Forster's famous novel made the century's top 100.  This is the story of the Schlegel family which consists of three young adults:  Margaret, Helen and their effeminate brother Tibby.  They are passionate for the arts and  care about the poor.<br />The Schlegel's befriend the Wilcox's.  They are the  opposite from the Schlegel's:  they are extremely wealthy and scorn the  poor.  Through the course of the story Margaret becomes engaged to the  widower Mr. Wilcox.  They eventually marry, but Margaret realizes that Mr.  Wilcox is not what he is all cracked up to be.  He was an adulterer in his  previous marriage and Margaret finds herself comprising her values and  interests to please Mr. Wilcox and keep face.<br />Tragedy accompanies the  story when Helen and Margaret befriend Leonard Bast:  a poor worker caught  in a forced marriage.  The Schlegel's try to help Leonard, but each time  they do it ultimately makes matters worse for him.  In addition, Mr. Wilcox  is somewhat responsible for Leonard's problems (although Wilcox would never  admit to it).<br />Forster writes a story about the social classes and the  problems between the rich and the poor.  In addition, Forster mentions  woman's rights.  I did enjoy the book for the most part.  Although, I was  thrown off by the many disjointed events that took place.  They do come  together at the end of the book, though.  Also, I had a bit of a hard time  reading parts of it -- as the story tended to drift and lose focus.  The  book is worth reading, especially if you like British literature.   Forster's descriptions of the English countryside also are well done and  the characters are engaging.	2000-06-04
US	51204643	R3ACN2C1R36MNU	0553213237	187732421	A Room with a View (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A classic piece of British Literature	British writer Forster writes a romantic love story which takes place in England at the turn of the century.  Young Lucy, is engaged to Cecil, a man of her class and social level.  However, her views of the world changes  drastically when she takes a trip to Florence, Italy and meets  George.<br />George and his father are rumored to be socialists and free  thinkers.  They quickly prove they have a tongue.  George and Lucy have  many interactions.  First, they exchange rooms on account that Lucy's view  is not what she wanted.  He also helps her home after Lucy sees a bloody  fight in the town's square.  They also take an excursion to see a beautiful  valley, where George makes his intentions known that he appreciates  Lucy.<br />When Lucy returns to England, George once again is put in her  midst.  With George's influence, Lucy begins to see that Cecil is stifling  her.  Challenging her Victorian principles, she must decide between the  free willed George or the controlling Cecil.<br />I enjoyed the book a great  deal.  It reminded me of a British version of a Sinclair Lewis novel where  Lucy must challenge her societal roles.  There is also a hint of women's  liberation in the book as well.  The idea is similar to Lewis's &quot;Main  Street&quot;.  However, I did find the book challenging to read; I am not a  big reader of British literature and I found the wording a little clumsy  and hard to follow.  None the less, it was a good read and the ideas that  Forster conveyed make this one a classic piece of British literature.	2000-05-30
US	51204643	R2DX0G899X1HJ	1902058038	137753044	She (She trilogy)	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Old time fantasy story	This fantasy adventure story takes place in England and later transports the reader to the bowels of Central Africa.  The story starts when Horace Holly makes a deal with his dying friend.  His friend, knowing the end is  near, has a young son, Leo, who he leaves an iron trunk to.  Horace is  instructed not to open the chest until the boy's 25th birthday.  In  addition, Horace must take care of Leo and raise him.<br />On Leo's 25th  birthday, Horace and Leo open the chest and in it they discover that Leo is  part of a historic lineage which goes back to the ancient Egyptians.  They  also discover that everlasting life can be found off the coast of Africa by  bathing in a magical fire.  They soon venture to the hidden area to  discover an ancient race of cannibalistic people who are lead by Ayesha,  otherwise known as She.  She is a very beautiful temptress and has the  secret to everlasting life.  Also, she was in love with Leo's family  centuries ago.  When Leo arrives, She is much smitten with him.<br />This book  was well written and the adventure well thought out.  The level of detail  that Haggard uses to describe the Amahagger's (the tribe Leo and Holly  discover) were extraordinary.  She is easily understood to be a  sophisticated woman who has strong powers of life and death over her  subjects.  However, I found the book a little hard to read.  The lengthy  paragraphs that detailed the Amahagger society were not needed and slowed  the pace of the book.  Still not a bad adventure book but the pace kept  being diverted by lengthy descriptions.	2000-05-30
US	51204643	R1JHLQME5T57G4	1582016755	772580233	The Trail of the Hawk (The Collected Works of Sinclair Lewis)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	One of the Lewis's First	Trail of the Hawk is one of Lewis's first works.  It the story of the life of Carl &quot;Hawk&quot; Ericson, from rural Minnesota.  Carl is an enterprising young man whose passion in life revolves around engines.  He  is a wandering heart and his life's story takes the reader to many  different places.<br />The bulk of the story takes place in his late teens and  twenties during the 1910's.  He attends college where eventually he is  booted out for supporting a socialistic teacher.  Carl turns this to his  advantage as he tramps about the country doing jobs for short periods of  time and seeing America.  Eventually, though, his interest is taken in by  the burgeoning airplane industry.  With some saved money, he invests in  lessons.<br />Lewis captures the excitement of the airplane era -- tossing  about names like the Wright brothers and predicts what planes will do in  the future (which we take for granted today).  Ericson becomes a premiere  pilot and races nationally.  His fame becomes wide-spread.<br />Fearing the  mortal dangers of flying an airplane, he retires.  However, he meets Ruth,  a woman who he falls in love with.  Ultimately, they marry, but Carl has a  wandering heart.  After some turmoil, he and his wife learn to avoid the  staticness of marriage and the another day another dollar routine.<br />Lewis  goes everywhere in this book.  Socialism, one of his persistent plots,  plays a minor role in this book and doesn't jump out at the reader like  Babbitt.  Also, some parts of the book were extremely dull and rambling.  However, Lewis's main focal point is that people should live life and avoid  the dullness people get into.  He states it best in the closing line:  &quot;How bully it is to be living, if you don't have to give up living in  order to make a living.&quot;	2000-05-27
US	51204643	R12Q0Y3GUOHF8R	0781236037	416887754	Slow And Sure; From The Street To The Shop	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another Rags to Riches Story	Horatio Alger Jr continues the story of Paul the Peddlar (not reviewed) in this short fictional piece of poor young men struggling to make a living on the rough streets of New York City.  Paul, a fifteen year-old boy, has come  a long way from his bootblack past and is now the proud owner of a tie  store, where he makes $15 a week to support his younger brother and his  widowed mother.<br />Through the course of the story, Paul meets up with  Julius, another poor young man who lives with a common criminal.  Julius  wants to be good and doesn't want to grow up like his benefactor (who takes  more than he gives).  As it turns out, Julius's guardian wants to rob the  plush house that Paul is safe-guarding.  Julius struggles with whom his  alliances belong to and eventually confides in Paul.  This saves Paul and  his family from trouble and accredits Julius with being honest.<br />Most of  Alger's books are formulaic and this one is no exception.  However, they  are always a joy to read, even if they can be a bit corny.  The message is  the same, though:  hard work, honesty, frugalness, and respect will earn  one's fortune in life.	2000-05-24
US	51204643	R22YUIH3PF5QIV	0789714825	542674868	Using Dynamic Html (SPECIAL EDITION USING)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Good Broad base coverage, but that's it	I didn't figure out that this book only covered IE until about midway through.  However, the cover of the book has a picture Netscape Navigator on it.  <br />This book offers a huge vault of neat little tricks, but I  wouldn't want to learn Javascript from it.  The examples are right on par,  though, for teaching you examples.  If you have no other programming  experience, you'll probably want to avoid this book, as I felt it was good  only if you knew Javascript already and wanted to perform a neat trick or  two with the stuff.  Most of it involves graphical quirks rather than form  processing and such.<br />There are better books around, but this one has its  place.  If the examples were cross browser compatible, I'd give this book a  higher rating.	2000-05-18
US	51204643	R6O8QONV1VQXG	1561005878	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Fantastic Story	Maugham writes an extremely interesting and thought provoking book, in this story about a young man who takes a drastic change.  The book starts off in the early 20's, with World War I veteran Larry engaged to the  beautiful Isabella.  The future is ripe for him as he has the promise of a  lucrative job.<br />However, Larry having had a life altering experience in  the war (a friend saved his life by sacrificing himself), Larry decides  that the materialistic way is not the one he wants to pursue.  He'd rather  loaf.  Isabella wants a traditional, American way of life.  They split up  and Larry indulges himself in taking up various careers throughout Europe,  studying with priests and Indian yogis, and reading and learning.   Isabella, on the other hand, agrees to marry a wealthy young man.  Their  marriage is good, but not deep as she always has feelings for  Larry.<br />Maugham writes in the first person and the reader is able to guess  that this is a true story, but with the names changed.  In some ways, the  story is like a soap opera (Isabella tries to keep track of Larry's life  and they run into each other periodically.  There is also some scheming  done when Isabella finds Larry engaged).  There are other players in the  book, and ultimately each gets what they want:  spirituality, material  possessions and security, social prominence, or death.  The primary focus,  though, is on Larry's spiritual growth and his relationship with Isabella.   There is also a lengthy discussion into Hinduism versus  Christianity.<br />There was also a well-done movie that does justice to the  book.  It runs on AMC.  The ending differs only slightly and the book goes  into a few places the movie doesn't, but both are comparable and  worthwhile.	2000-05-11
US	51204643	R38U3TXLE0O9DA	1861002963	984713068	Professional PHP Programming	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent Resource	I have been somewhat nervous about buying Wrox books.  They, like the O'Reilly books, are not geared for the beginner.  This book follows suit, if you are a newbie to web programming or programming in general, this book  won't help you get over that hurdle.  However, being familiar with  programming, I found the book easy to understand.  Note, that you will need  to know HTML -- this book does NOT cover HTML.<br />I used Medinets books to  give myself an introduction and used this behomoth book to fill in the  rest.  The book offers a comprehensive coverage.  Everything from image  processing, SQL database connections, and other things are covered.  In  addition, Fast Templates are covered (albeit not too clearly).  I felt the  book could have used more examples -- especially early on.<br />This book is  an invaluable resource.  If you are planning on using PHP, by all means  pick up this book and Medinet's book.	2000-05-06
US	51204643	RJSLKNA3OLUCW	078123591X	215013114	Phil, The Fiddler; Story Of A Young Street Musician	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better than average Alger Book	Phil, a twelve-year-old boy, is an Italian, white slave.  His parents were poor and sold him to a mean and vicious padrone.  The padrone has a horde of boys, whom he cheaply feeds and houses, but who all work for him.  Phil's trade is his fiddle, which he plays well.<br />The padrone insists that  each boy earn $2 a day.  The book chronicles a typical day for Phil in  which he earns pennies by playing his instrument.  Phil is one of the  better players and is able to make his quota for the day.  However, his  friend, Giacomo, isn't so lucky.  Giacomo's constitution isn't as great and  in the story, he succumbs to the rough lifestyle and the brutal beatings  that the padrone deals out.<br />Alger's main purpose in this story is to  enlighten the reader about the problem of white slavery and the rough life  of these Italian urchins.  Luckily, Phil has many friends, who include Paul  the Peddler, and manages to escape from the bondages of the padrone, but  not without adventures.  One of the more enlightening and interesting Alger  books I've read.	2000-05-02
US	51204643	R3H8A28N3O1FK	0781236002	866964082	Sam's Chance	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Story of Two Different Paths	Alger writes another fairly predictable rags to riches story about a fifteen-year-old orphan who lives on the streets of New York.  Sam, the protagonist, is a wily young man who takes life as it comes.  He never  saves and spends all of his earnings before payday.<br />Sam starts the story  in the employ of a successful businessman.  Sam receives $5 a week, but  cannot make ends meet.  His roommate, who studies at night and saves money,  is more than capable of saving money.  In this story, Sam learns that  gambling does not pay, that idleness and lack of responsibility at the work  place can get one into trouble, and the value of saving money.  Alger  provides for Sam's about face recovery upon meeting a young woman on the  way to Boston -- where Sam plans to relocate for bigger and better  things.<br />Alger shows the wrongs and the rights for young man growing up.  He advocates avoiding billiards, gambling, and tobacco.  He also encourages  his readers to study.  Sam's roommate, who's behavior and habits are the  opposite of Sam's, succeeds, while Sam continues to struggle.  This was a  fun book to read and light-hearted.	2000-05-01
US	51204643	R3NEGZBMNOOJJY	0671045458	43418846	Pretty Boy Floyd	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Great characterization!	Larry McMurtry uses his excellent characterization skills in portraying Pretty Boy Floyd (aka Charles Floyd), a bandit of the Dillinger variety who robbed banks in the early 30's.  McMurtry and Ossana give Floyd a  charismatic, misunderstood character, one who robbed banks with a touch of  wit and charm.  This is in stark contrast to some other accounts of him  being a ruthless and vicious criminal.<br />The book starts off covering  Floyd's first payroll heist.  It also tells about his adventures in jail  and his attempt at a normal life.  However, being an ex-con, he wasn't  trusted and had to return to crime.  The book then follows his various  heists, his jail escape, and his adventures with his partners, wife and  son, girlfriends, and friends.  The reader is also treated to an inside  look at his home life with his wife and child and how the life of crime  distanced him from them.  Ultimately, Floyd's career ends and McMurtry  paints a sad picture when Floyd is finally brought to justice by Hoover and  the soon-to-be FBI.<br />This book started off very exciting.  I was drawn  into the short chapters and Floyd's exciting adventures.  However, I found  a pattern to the book, which made it difficult to remain interested in:  Floyd robs something, Floyd visits his girlfriend(s), visits family and  friends, law catches on, Floyd goes and robs something else and repeat.   Also, I didn't find much sympathy in the character.  McMurtry did color him  as a good-hearted man with a wild streak, but I didn't buy into it.  He was  still a thief.  However, his character is interesting and at times, Floyd's  adventures are funny and poignant -- which save this book.	2000-04-22
US	51204643	RYBFCZQGQ94FM	0449912442	771756691	The Black Obelisk: A Novel	Books	1	5	27	N	N	Boring........	This author has always amazed me and drawn me into his works.  Unfortunately, this one didn't and if it wasn't written by Remarque I would've dumped it a long time ago.<br />We start with a 23-year-old WW1 veteran in the year of 1923 named Ludwig.  Germany, at the time, had huge  inflation rates due to their loss of the war.  At the start of the book,  the mark was values at 10,000 per dollar.  By the end, one dollar equals 1  trillion marks.  The high inflation rates makes life interesting for Ludwig  and his companions, who find enterprising ways to survive and get the most  out of the crazy system.  Ludwig and friends sell tombstones and their best  and most expensive is the Black Obelisk, one that if they don't sell will  break them.<br />We follow Ludwig through the turmoil of the times.  Hitler is  just a small blip on the radar yet you can sense that people are very much  interested in him.  We also learn of Ludwig's girlfriends and his  interactions with them.  He is constantly disappointed as they tend to find  other, older, more secure men to support them.<br />All in all, a dry book.  I  realized on page 200 I was tired of it and my progress was very slow.   However, I figured Remarque couldn't write this bad of a book, so I  continued.  The story tension was about as flat as can be.  There were some  interesting dialogs concerning death and the existence of God, however,  those were few and far between.	2000-04-19
US	51204643	R165TXV7H3KL7K	0781235634	502295549	Do And Dare; A Brave Boy's Fight For Fortune	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Typical Alger	Alger writes another formulaic story of Herbert -- a sixteen-year-old boy who lives in the country with his widowed mother.  Together, they run the post office in the late 1800's.  However, their position is taken over by  Graham, the local rich man who wants the office to further his  wealth.<br />Herbert, fearing poverty, works for Graham and his snobby son,  who pay Herbert a pittance.  However, Herbert, does meet a scholar who is  traveling for his health named Melville.  Melville, who is rich, is taken  with Herbert and hires him to be his secretary and friend.  These wages are  better than Graham's.  Together, the two go to Boston and eventually head  west to Chicago and Colorado.  In Colorado they have several western  adventures involving bandits and wooly hunters.  Herbert, through  investing, comes into a small fortune for himself and is able to reverse he  and his mother's misfortunes.<br />Alger writes in a clear, friendly style.   In this book he emphasizes hard work, avoidance of all forms of tobacco,  honesty, and gambling.  The tale had more meat than many others of his and  was enjoyable.  It had violence in it, but as usual, Alger handles it in a  style that has been lost in today's entertainment.	2000-04-19
US	51204643	R2QARPOK0ESAPW	0071353429	342364428	PHP3: Programming Browser-Based Applications with PHP	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Primer	I've looked at a bunch of PHP books and this one is a good variable/basic primer.  I was a bit daunted by the length of the Wrox book so I picked this one up to quickly learn the basics.  I wasn't too  disappointed.<br />However, there are several code typos (luckily, they can be  found corrected on the author's web site).  In addition, I found some of  the comments about certain things vague.  He talks about forms and cookies  but fails to give a simple example to reinforce these subjects.  His  discussion on PHP objects left me with many questions.  I also didn't like  having PHP functions used without explaining them to me first (I had to hit  php's web site to learn what they did).  I suppose I could've used the  function glossary in the back of the book, but that is pretty spartan (and  consumes about 100 pages).<br />Overall, I recommend this book to seasoned  programmers (a first-time programmer would be crushed) who want to know the  basics of PHP quickly.  Pick up the Wrox book as well for the details.	2000-04-19
US	51204643	R1E880H6PVTSVI	1582018952	928381957	Their Yesterdays (The Collected Works of Harold Bell Wright - 18 Volumes)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Dry for a Wright Book	This book is not a story but a series of essays on what every person must encounter in life.  It is told by reflections of a young man and a young woman.  The reader guesses that these two may have known each other in the  past and often times their thoughts refer to once another.  They often  think of how simpler and happier things were when they were  children.<br />Wright's 12 facets of life are:  Occupation, knowledge,  ignorance, religion, tradition, temptation, life, death, failure, success  and love.  A chapter is devoted to each subject.  Wright writes about how  these items affect a person and define their character.  He also expresses  his opinion about what they have become in modern life.  It appears he was  upset at the woman entering into the workplace and thought it was a  travesty to the home life.<br />I only read about half of the book before  becoming incredibly bored with it.  There was no tension, no story, and the  insights were rare and ponderous.  This book might be worthy to pick up  again and read a chapter, but reading it all the way through tested my  patience and I had to put it down.	2000-04-19
US	51204643	RUJW6J9S2WVTV	0671753819	896219190	The Last Picture Show	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great book about teenage disaffection	Undoubtably, one of the best books I've read this year.  A story about two dispossed high school seniors in a small Texas town during the 1950's.  Sonny and Duane, the main characters find entering the adult world is a  major transistion.  The town itself is also changing.  The leading business  man, Sam the Lion, who is friends with all the players in the story, dies  in the story, affecting changes throughout.<br />This book is highly prurient  and not for the timid.  The story follows the boys as they visit brothels,  watch their friends take part in  bestiality, and Sonny is involved with a  woman who is in a sad and loveless marriage.<br />Despite the above topics,  the characters appear very real and I felt very much attached to them.   There were many sad moments in the book where the character's ultimate fate  was shown.	2000-04-19
US	51204643	R3MPFI0BUB2VGO	0782125247	373386530	Mastering HTML 4 Premium Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Indespensible	This book is written and organized very well.  I find I use it more as a reference manual, then a how-to.  The glossary at the end is worth the extra money.  I find the examples practical and at the same time they go  through the code step by step.  While this can be a little bit of a paper  waste, I am able to quickly understand what is going on.<br />I just wish the  book wasn't too big.  Perhaps in the future they should put the book into  two volumes.  <br />The Mastering series, from all that I have read, are well  done and quickly explain things.  I am thoroughly glad I purchased this  book.	2000-04-15
US	51204643	R25S25N4N4G0S5	0764532677	461371121	Building Dynamic HTML GUIs	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very handy	This book covers a lot of nice material.  I find myself referencing it all the time.  Just about anything you'd want to do with javascript / HTML is here.  <br />However, this book is not for the javascript novice.  It also, is NOT a javascript tutorial by any means.  In addition, a complaint I had is  that the code isn't on a Cd, you have to download it from their site.   Also, the routines they use to manipulate objects are wrapped in their  javascript code and it appears what they are calling, is native javascript  code.  This was unnverving until I figured out you had to include a 30K  include file.  I also found some of the examples didn't run nicely on all  browsers (not surprising with DHTML).  <br />However, this book does cover a  lot of ground and prepares the developer for the arduous task of creating  DHTML pages.  They do some very cool things with it and it is worth  checking out.	2000-04-15
US	51204643	R2KSAQZMGDP6MY	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Story of the Street Lawyer	Grisham tells the story of a lawyer named Robert Brock who works in a corporate law firm.  He is on the fast-track for partnership and is looking at earning serious money in the near future.  However, his life changes  drastically when a gun toting homeless man holds Brock and some fellow  lawyers hostage in their office.<br />Escaping with his life, Brock does some  initial research into what made the gunman come to their office.  He  discovers, with the help of a company snitch, that the company he works for  wrongfully evicted many homeless people.  Brock, during his search becomes  involved with Mordecai Green, a street lawyer who represents the poor and  homeless.  Realizing a change of heart, Brock decides he would rather  pursue the life of a street lawyer than a high-priced anti-trust lawyer and  joins forces with Green.  <br />The story follows Brock's introduction to the  life and culture of the homeless, his loss of his wife and family, and the  pursuit for justice against his old firm.  He also becomes more human,  helping out the homeless in soup kitchens and shelters.<br />This book wasn't  as engaging as other Grisham novels.  It was very preachy and was easy to  put down.  I felt a lot of the story was too &quot;convenient&quot; and I  didn't have a huge buy-in.  The ending was extremely predictable.  However,  it is Grisham, and was entertaining and worth reading.  Although, I wasn't  kept up at nights like I usually am when reading one of his stories.	2000-04-09
US	51204643	RE1DKJS9JYHMM	1575211416	924219753	Laura Lemay's Web Workshop Javascript (Laura Lemay's Web Workshop Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not for beginners	I picked this book up and it gives a good introduction to javascript.  However, it is NOT for the newbie.  If you don't have any programming experience in a major language (C/C++, Pascal, VB, etc.) find another book.   This book rushes through many concepts that adept programmers already  know.  As I read I kept wondering how a newcomer would absorb all the  information presented here.  <br />However, being knowledgeable in  programming, I was able to pick up on how Javascript works.  The book is a  little dated and doesn't list all the object properties for most objects -  so a reference guide is needed.<br />Not a bad backup book, but don't make it  your only one.   You'll wind up short changing yourself.	2000-03-22
US	51204643	R1LF3CBWG8RGB7	0449912485	84971484	Shadows in Paradise: A Novel	Books	3	10	15	N	N	The story of World War II refugees in America	Remarque, best known for &quot;All Quiet On the Western Front&quot;, tells the story of Ross (or Roger), a refugee from Germany who arrives in the United States to find a new life.  Written in the first person, the story  is primarily set in New York City during the final year of World War  II.<br />Roger and his friends are plagued by memories of the atrocities that  occurred.  They recount stories of concentration camps, tortures and close  calls.  The refugees must also deal with friends and family who they had to  leave behind.  They also struggle to find work and must deal with the rapid  changes their lives have undergone.  The story also has a love affair  between a refugee model Natasha and Roger.  Remarque fans will find that  Ravic, from &quot;Arch of Triumph&quot;, is in the book, although his part  is minor and is never officially acknowledged as belonging to the previous  book (although the similarities exist).<br />I wasn't that happy with the  book.  Aside from the refugee's attempts at becoming Americans and their  memories, there was very little tension in the book.  Natasha's and Roger's  love affair was dubious at best and they seemed to be an odd combination.  However, Remarque's brilliant and insightful dialogue saved the book.	2000-03-22
US	51204643	R24CFLVP2QS2S2	0451525566	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Signet Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Classic Maugham	Of Human Bondage is Maugham's most note worthy piece of work.  It made the top 100 for this century.  It is an epic novel about the life of Philip Carey:  a boy whose parent's die and is forced to live with his aunt and uncle.  The story takes place in England in the late 1800's.<br />Philip is a  smart boy and enjoys reading.  This is his saving grace being that he was  born with a club foot and is unfit for physical labor.  He grows up under a  harsh religious life, his uncle being a Vicar in a country church.  Philip  is quick to lose his belief in religion when he goes off to boarding school  where he was relentlessly teased for his limp and foot.  He is unsure of  what he wants out of life, but eventually tires of school and desires to be  an artist.<br />In Paris, while studying art, he meets several friends.  In  addition, he realizes he is a mediocre artist.  Giving up art he attempts  to take on accounting and then tries to be a doctor.  The story becomes a  little more traumatic when Philip meets a waitress named Mildred.  Much of  the book is dedicated to her and his unrequited love for her.  She is plain  and not very winsome, however Philip falls for her hard.  Mildred takes him  for several rides: borrowing money and eventually moving in with him  (platonically).  However, Mildred continues to see other men while seeing  Philip and takes advantage of Philip horrendously.<br />This book is not for  those who are shy at large page counts.  It is long and often times fairly  dry.  Maugham has several key pages though that he uses to describe the  meaning of life, which is the point of this book.  Maugham seems to feel  that there is no point in life except misery, which is a curse of being  human.  Also there are strong atheist view points expressed.  However,  Maugham does seem to hold some redeeming value in the human aspect of love.   <br />Despite Philip being handicapped, I didn't find feeling much sympathy  for him.  Many times I felt he whined a bit much.  However, the times in  England were tough and the descriptions of the poor rival Jack London's  &quot;The People of the Abyss.&quot;  Overall, though, this book failed to  meet my expectations.  It was good reading, but &quot;A Christmas  Holiday&quot; by Maugham was much better.	2000-03-19
US	51204643	R29XEQRXB8CW0C	0837188768	747658550	The World Does Move	Books	4	10	10	N	N	History from Tarkington	Tarkington has filled a book with a hodge-podge of essays and short stories on the coming of the mechanical age.  The book covers the changes of people's morals and habits with the coming of electricity, cars, and  other inventions.  The perspective is written by someone who has lived  through the tumultuous changes of the time.<br />Each story or chapter  explains exactly what impact a particular invention made upon society.  The  biggest one, according to Tarkington, is the car.  The car appears to have  ushered in major societal changes:  people went into debt to purchase one,  people's live became more rushed and hurried, speed was important, they  became a status symbol, necking parties occurred, women cut their hair and  wore short clothes so as not to be harassed by the wind.  The book also  mentions the invention of the airplane, electricity, women's suffrage,  prohibition, and the introduction of &quot;sex&quot; plays, novels, and  movies.  Also, the changing of the moral guard is also written  about.<br />This book is more like a Tarkington-perspective history book  rather than a  work of fiction.  Also, those who wonder why the moral  changes in the youth of today and yesterday can look into this book and see  that people back at the turn of the century were raising the same questions  and were dealing with the same issues.  Tarkington attempts to answer them,  but I felt his answers and explanations fell short.  The book was also a  bit of a challenge to read -- as sometimes it drifted into very deep and  subjects.  Also, the chapters themselves were discontinuous and were jumpy.   This is not a book for light reading (like many other Tarkington novels).	2000-03-08
US	51204643	R2LSEABMSP9EB2	0345414489	793241904	Dirty Money	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Continuing the Denton Saga...	Womack continues the Harry James Denton detective series in this new novel.  Readers familiar with the series will recall that Denton is off to Reno to witness the birth of his daughter.  His relationship with his girlfriend is on the ropes but they are amiable enough that she wants him  to witness their child's birth.   Denton's usual and somewhat predictable  string of bad luck occurs near Reno.  His car breaks down in the desert and  he is harassed and robbed by bandits.  By the time he arrives in Reno he  has little more than a suitcase.  Not withstanding, Harry does involve  himself in a case that involves money laundering at a legal brothel.  He is  there to get information and poses as a janitor.   I was a little  disappointed in the book.  Mostly on account that it took around 150 (of  the 300) pages for the mystery to develop.  Don't get me wrong, Womack's  writing is solid and captivating and I was not bored.  However, I felt  there is was too much prep time and before page 250 the mystery was pretty  much solved (and it wasn't that deep of one).  I liked the book a lot  though and polished it off in a day and look forward to other Denton  adventures.  Also I noticed more than the usual 4-letter words than in the  past Denton books.	2000-03-04
US	51204643	R59Z5U29JA3XQ	0405078226	595800426	Then and Now (The works of W. Somerset Maugham)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Historical Novel	Maugham writes a historical fiction story set in the early 1500's in Italy.  He uses Renaissance-era politician / writer Machiavelli as his main character.  Machiavelli is sent from Florence as an ambassador to a warlike  Duke.  While working there he is in the middle of danger as the  arious  states of Italy war with each other.<br />However, aside from his dispensing  his political wisdom, Machiavelli falls in love with the Duke's highest  man's wife.  Maugham has painted Machiavelli as a man loyal to Florence but  who is not immune to the pleasures of the flesh.  Machiavelli uses  suberterfuge and cunning to attempt to win the woman into bed.  However,  things don't work out exactly as he had hoped and his situation winds up to  be a comedy.<br />This is a colorful book and certainly different from many  I've read.  I wasn't familiar with Italian Renaissance history (other than  a cursory knowledge) and it hindered me.  At times it was a bit hard to  follow.  Machiavelli does have some words of wisdom, probably coming from  his &quot;The Prince&quot; book that is still read today.  He struck me as  a licentious Confuscious.  Maugham has strong writing skills however I  think the background and political confusion turned me off.  Maugham title  comes from the fact that corruption, affairs, and such occurred back then  as they do today.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R1IWOA465QGNSM	1582018723	589632832	Beasley's Christmas Party	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Nice Holiday Tale	It is a short novel, about 100 pages, large print.  Has nice illustrations that make it a worthy keep sake.<br />Aside from that, it is the story of a rather quiet man who hardly says anything at all.  He is in the state's  congress and is well respected by his peers and constituents.  However, his  neighbors begin to see him acting strangely.  He talks to himself and is  doing strange things around his house.<br />However, all is not what it seems  to be and comes to fruition on Christmas Eve.<br />I didn't find myself  totally into the holiday spirit after reading the book, however, I did like  the &quot;quaint&quot; and &quot;folksy&quot; attitude of the book.   Something fun to read in the course of an hour.  Not Tarkington's best, but  definitely interesting and motivating for the holidays.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R26ZJCVQIVFQ9N	0781286506	698612381	Your Amiable Uncle (American Autobiography)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Personal Look at Tarkington	After Tarkington's death, his nephews gathered some of his letters that he had written between 1903 and 1904 and published them in a book.  The letters detail Tarkington's impression of his first visit to Europe.  Along  with the letters are some crude sketches that Tarkington used to   illustrate what he saw.<br />The letters reveal the personality of Tarkington.   In many ways, the characters he wrote about in his novels were similar to  himself or his family members.  He seemed to have a good nature about him  and looked upon the adversities of traveling in Europe with an amiable  mind.  Most of the letters were funny, however, they also talk about  historical sites, many of which have been destroyed by the two world wars.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R2RFFL06H072YN	0140185984	190367208	The Narrow Corner (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Good Maugham Book	Maugham writes about a British doctor who lives in the South Pacific.  At the outset of this book, Dr. Saunders must travel to China to help out a wealthy man.  Once there, he completes his task and must wait for a boat to  take him back to his home.  During the waiting process, he runs into a pair  of traders, who offer to take him back part of the way.  The traders,  Captain Nichols, and his associate Fred Blake, are two very interesting  characters who aren't what they seem to be.   During their travels, Dr.  Saunders learns more about the pair.  Nichols is a scoundrel and has  problems holding a job.  Fred Blake, a young and handsome man, hides his  past, but the reader is given clues that he had to flee from Sydney to  avoid the authorities(which is later revealed).     During a storm, the  trio befriend fellow British people on a beautiful island.  They learn some  of the history and are introduced to Louise; a beautiful girl who is  smitten by Blake.  They have a one night fling, which causes the story's  tension to begin -- Blake is haunted by his past and Louise's fiance (who  she loves, but not with her heart) commits suicide over the incident.   Dr.  Saunders is a spectator for the most part in this story.  His life's  philosophy is take what one can from life and learn to deal with it.  He  watches the various characters interact -- and Maugham does a great job  with the characters.  The writing is almost like Hemingway and the reader  is drawn into the feeling of the South Pacific.  The book is fairly deep --  with hints of Buddhism / Hinduism, karma, and detachment.  The book was  very slow to start (took about half way before any plot developed) but the  writing hooked me and the ending was a gold mine.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R3077QWFV9HUJF	0848803213	94672569	Turmoil	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Solid Tarkington	Tarkington manages to cram an East of Eden epic into 350 pages.  The story begins with the sallow and sickly Bibbs coming home from a sanitarium.  He has been placed there because of his nerves.  His father, known as  Sheridan, is the leading capitalist in the bustling Indiana town and his  other two sons are at the helm of his money making machine.  Sheridan  despises his son for being weak.  Bibbs, is a poet and dislikes work.  He is very smart and not interested in making money.  He'd rather write and  think.  The primary focus of the story is his rehabilitation.  He  discovers his next door neighbor, Mary, and falls in love with her (typical  Tarkington romance).  His father forces him into the company's  &quot;inner&quot; works were he is forced to work at a noisy machine all  day.  He  dislikes what capitalism and greed has done, noting the heavy  smog in the air (ashes come down like snow) and the problems of capitalism.  However he grows stronger and we find him to be a very capable man.  The &quot;turmoil&quot; is Bibbs finding a balance between working and  &quot;living.&quot;  Tarkington almost comes off as a Sinclair Lewis or  Ellen Glasgow at times, but overall there is a LOT going on in this novel,  which carries it along extremely well.  I wasn't that happy with the  ending, as I didn't think Bibbs had found a compromise but rather an  acceptance of his fate.  One of the best Tarkington books I've read,  though.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R1G6CF58GZ6KPR	0839806620	484939488	Voice of the People	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Old fashioned Glasgow	Glasgow takes the reader on a lengthy journey of the life of Nicholas Burr.  Burr is the son of a poor, rural Virginia farmer and is considered low class.  However to raise above his social class he reads books and  buddies up with the local judge, who tutors him in law.       The novel  follows Burr's life as he grows up with his friends and the girl next door,  Eugenia.  Inevitably, there is a bond between the two    but as life takes  its course she realizes that he is too low class for her.       Burr winds  up being elected to the assembly and winds up as the governor of Virginia.   He is loved and respected by the people despite his enemies' politics and  is known as an honest man.  However, Eugenia, his childhood sweetheart, had  ran out of patience waiting for him to become success and marries someone  else.  She is in a loveless marriage, but realizes she missed marrying  someone with more character.       I found the book long-winded.  I had a  hard time getting any excitement out of the book, until almost 60% of the  way through and then it was only a small blip on the radar.  However, there  were some picturesque descriptions of rural Virginia that were well done  (the hard cover edition also includes at least 20 black and white photos).   Reading the dialog from the Negro servants was also a battle in translation  and  most of the time not worth the effort.  Nicholas was indeed a heroic  character worthy of admiration but I found his treatment rather      adumbrated.  Like other Glasgow books, Glasgow's main characters always  seem to be happy when they get over &quot;the love thing&quot; and wind up  alone.	2000-02-21
US	51204643	R2EEQLXGVZBAIF	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not your typical Grisham	A not-so-typical thriller from the master of court room suspense.  The story is situated in Florida, in a prison of all places, where three scrofulous judges do their time in a federal prison system.  However, they  do have a money making plan that is run from their &quot;club-med&quot;  like prison.  They perform an extortion scheme with the help of a drunkard  lawyer.  Their scheme, posing as a young homosexual man who wants a penpal,  quickly nets them some big money from various rich, married men.  However,  they snare the wrong man: the front runner in the presidential race, who is  a closet homosexual.  The story doesn't end there as the candidate is  backed by the CIA, who must protect their man at all costs.<br />This story is  like an Alfred Hitchcock suspense and less court room drama.  The fact that  the criminals are judges or lawyers doesn't play that much of a part in the  book.  I liked the book and found myself captivated by it, but I had a hard  time finding someone to cheer for.  The candidate was backed by the CIA and  was a yes-man and could be bought.  The judges were crooks.  Their lawyer a  bum.  One sympathized with the men they extorted but they were minor  players.  This was different than Grisham's other books, which always have  a hero to root for.	2000-02-10
US	51204643	R3ACXLYS4F04AL	0886461243	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	1	15	38	N	N	A whole lot of nothing.	A very surprising entry into the top 100 for this century (around #40 if I remember correctly).  I bought the two sequels (Tropic of Capricorn and Black Spring) to this book in an auction this summer and finally broke down  and bought this  book.  An extreme disappointment.  The book was initially  banned by the United States until 1961.  The reason for this is that Henry  Miller writes a narrative about his excursions in Paris during the 30's.  He adopts the life of a penurious moocher whose life rotates around finding  food and having sex with prostitutes.  He also expounds on anti-American  philosophy on life and why his way of life is right.  This book gave me a  large headache.  I read half of it before I threw it across the room.  The  writing and flow was akin to a junior high school student's.  Nice  vocabulary and some of his statements were worthy of reading.  However, I  wasn't shocked by his non-conformist ways and found the book vulgar, poorly  written and meandering.	2000-02-07
US	51204643	R1UB22K5RWNJA6	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good Maugham Book	Maugham writes a first-person narrative about an English painter / artist named Charles Strickland.  The narrator is a struggling playwright who is in association with many artist types.  During his various meetings, he  becomes acquaintances with the wife of Charles Strickland.  The  Strickland's are a comfortable family until (at the age of forty-seven)  Charles decides to throw away his marriage, his kids, and his career to  paint.   Strickland moves to Paris where he does odd jobs for money, plays  chess, and paints when he is able to.  According to the narrator, his  pictures aren't any good, but Strickland is happy doing what he loves and  doesn't care about the consequences.  However, Strickland, is actually a  genius and he leaves behind a trail of priceless masterpieces.  The  narrator has many interludes with Strickland while he lives in Paris and  when he loses track of Strickland, he learns about Strickland's painting  life on the island of Haiti.   Strickland is not a likeable character.  He  doesn't care what people think about him and is pretty much self-centered  and is synical.  However, he is open about and will candidly point out that  most people are self-centered.  Strickland even steals the wife of a friend  who helped him during one of his low times.  Somehow, the narrator and  Strickland form a friendly bond and the reader gets a chance to know  Strickland personally.   The book was interesting.  The story's primary  message is that about art and happiness:  that one should be doing it for  themselves and not for glory or money.  In addition, that when one is doing  what truly makes one happy that it is priceless.	2000-02-02
US	51204643	R1CKA2KPUZA3EH	0813916364	701170386	Vein of Iron	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Solid Glasgow	The story of Ada Fincastle begins at the turn of the century in the small village of Ironside, Virginia.  She is a good-natured child living modestly with her family.  Her father is an &quot;ex-communicated&quot; minister  turned farmer; who writes philosophical books in his spare time.  Her  mother, aunt, and grandmother take care of the house.<br />As the story  commences, Ada's boyfriend, Ralph, and her have a fairly serious  relationship.  However, Ada's best friend, Janet, who is rich and spoiled  likes Ralph and wants him.  Ada and Ralph have a fight at a party and Ralph  goes home with Janet.  Ralph was caught in Janet's room (looking for a  photograph) and was forced to marry her because of this moral  transgression.  Janet had schemed this from the beginning.<br />Ralph's  marriage doesn't work and divorces Janet before the start of World War I.  Before Ralph leaves for France, he and Ada have a weekend in the woods and  Ada eventually winds up pregnant.  However, Ada is willing to accept the  scorn because they were 2 days of bliss.  When Ralph returns from the war  they marry.<br />During the roaring 20's they move to a big city and begin  acquiring possessions and money.  However, Ralph is injured in a car  accident and they are forced to spend their savings.  Just after his  recovery, the Great Depression hits and they find themselves in dire  straits.<br />The purpose of Glasgow's epic tale is happiness.  Ada and Ralph  are reminded often that they experience the deepest happiness when they are  together. Happiness in possessions is shallow and when examined for their  &quot;true happiness&quot; it is often revealed to be not even present.  Happiness can also be a double-edged sword; often when life takes away  happiness one remembers with regret other times when one was happy.  Ada  wonders throughout the book why God allows happiness to be fleeting.<br />The  book was very slow to start.  About 40 pages into it I was debating on  putting it away.  However, I gave it another 50 pages and it was getting  better. I am glad I made my way through it.  The descriptions and scenes of  the desperation, especially those of the Great Depression, rival those of  Steinbeck's.  Glasgow's characters are typical and are similar to those  found in her other books.  Her examples of the moral changes that came  after the first world war are also priceless (I loved it when Ada was  shocked when her boy came home and said the world &quot;Lousy&quot;.)  Also, one can see many similarities between the roaring 20's (and its  declining morals) with those of the 90's.  The characters worried and said  almost the same things that newspaper pundits are saying today.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R4DBP9Y32HHBD	1582018510	513925591	Gentle Julia	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Tarkington Romance	A story about the most sought after young woman, Julia, and her meddling nephew and niece.  The story's primary focus, despite the title, is actually from the niece, Florence, who is 13.<br />Florence sees something in  the town's uncouth loser, named Noble Dill and wants Gentle Julia to marry  him.  He is one of many wanting Julia's hand in marriage.  Her other  suitors have more class and wit but have their quirks about them.  Julia  likes Dill; however like most romances, it is on again off again.... <br />The  kids, whose antics and fate interweave trouble for Julia and Dill.  Not as  funny as Penrod, Tarkington does have some humor here as the  kids in their  innocent dealings cause turmoil.<br />The book was a bit uneven and I was left  wondering what Julia ever saw in Dill (he is a nice guy but definitely was  &quot;geeky&quot;).  At the end of the book, the reader is left wondering  what will become of their relationship... probably Dill still wanting to  marry her and Julia playing games, so nothing was really resolved.  The  children's antics though were humorous and their were some memorable  characters and interesting statements made about relationships (one I  remember stating that all the poets say how great they are but in reality  they are a lot of work and heartache) .	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R2A6AVLTMCWUH9	1582018464	510106844	Cherry	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding early Tarkington work	This story takes place in 1762 and is about two college-aged men vying for the affections of a young woman.  One of the men, Mr. Sudgeberry, the narrator, has a gift for gab.  He is loquacious, priggish, self-righteous,  and pedantic.  His competitor, a happy-go-lucky and slightly dissipated man  named William Fentriss. The title of the book comes about because the girl  in question, Sylvia, wears cherry-colored ribbons in her hair.  The  narrator manages to become the cynosure of Sylvia's affections until  William concocts a scheme to win her good graces. Mr. Sudgeberry discovers  this and exposes him, however Sudgeberry's expsure has unintended  results.<br />One of Tarkington's earlier works, I was a bit worried about its  clarity. However, it was easy to read and understand.  However, one's  vocabulary must be able to match Sudgeberry's abilities.  There were a ton  of &quot;tough&quot; words in this book.  I loved the simplicity of the  story though and it worked well for me. Thoroughly enjoyable.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R1T6FJYIDKBI3P	0404063381	754257570	Gentleman from Indiana	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Tarkington's First Work	A prolix novel about a small town in Indiana called Plattsville.  A stranger from out of town arrives and buys the failing (and laughable ) newspaper and turns it into something worth reading.  In the process, the  strange, Harkless, expels political scoundrels and angers the  &quot;white-caps&quot; (ala, KKK ) in the suburb outside of town.<br />This is  also a characteristic and somewhat predictable love story that Tarkington  delivers so easily, with a bit of a surprise ending for the reader.  The  book is wordy and contains mellifluous descriptions that drone on.   However, despite it being slow, it picks up about 50% of the way through  and delivers a solid story.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R14N1VYU2LJH4B	078388561X	181758833	Alice Adams [Large Print]	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Excellent Tarkington Novel	One of the better Tarkington tales I've read.  An upbeat and at times humorous story about a middle class family and their two early 20-year-old children ( one boy and one girl ).  The girl, Alice Adams, is the focus of  the story, as she struggles to be liked by the town's society folks.  She  doesn't have the social prestige nor the money to attract many  beaus.<br />This leads to turmoil, and Mrs. Adams tells her husband to leave  the mediocre paying job he's had all his life to start his own company so  they can be rich and pay their children &quot;advantages&quot;.  He does  this, after many trepidations, but the basis of his newfound business is a  stolen glue formula from his previous employer.  This ultimately leads to  his demise.<br />There is a bit more to this story, but all in all, it is a  story of class envy, snobbery, and greed.  Tarkington's main point,  however, seems to be that every dark tunnel of life ultimately has some  other exit that inevatibly lead to light -- as even in the Adams's darkest  hour their was hope yet.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R3T3XDX9CGCMVO	1582018502	368970473	The Flirt (The Works of Booth Tarkington)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Solid Tarkington Romance	A charming tale about a young adult female, Cora, who is the first choice of all the men in the small midwestern town.  She knows this and is a like a kid in a candy store -- constantly drooling over one man and then running  to another when the excitement wears off.<br />One day, however, she meets her  match when the male version of herself drops into town.  However this man  isn't what he appears to be and is the stronger of the players and easily  falls prey to him.<br />This book was really a engrossing.  Cora's brother had  touches of Penrod in him and he had some good gags ( this book was written  before Penrod ).  In addition, this book describes the social / dating  scene / morales of the early 1900's, which can best be described as quaint.   I found the narratives and characterizations really compelling and  interesting.  Easily could have been made into an AMC channel movie.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	RVDGW0YX850SP	0871239167	234308962	The Shepherd of the Hills	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Solid Harold Bell Wright Book	Wright's most notable book, the Shepherd of the Hills, is a story of mystical happenings in the Ozarks at the turn of the century.  A small group of country-folk live there in relative peace.  A stranger arrives one  day and hires on as a shepherd at an abandoned and supposedly haunted  ranch.  Dan, the shepherd, changes everyone's lives.<br />There are many  players in this tale.  One family is seeking retribution/peace against a  man who left the area after taking up with their daughter.  Another wants  the love of a young woman who is in love with a person going to the city.   The young woman wants to learn what it takes to be a &quot;woman&quot; from  the shepherd  All in all, many different activities are happening here and  all are interrelated.<br />Wright demonstrates what strength of character is.   The woman, does indeed learn that what makes a woman.  She learns it is not  what she wears or how much jewelry she has, but what she is made of.  Her  unrequited lover also learns what it takes to be a man and demonstrates it  over her weak willed lover.  The hurt family also learns forgiveness and  the shepherd learns that God can be found in nature.<br />This was a good book  (and later made into a movie starring John Wayne).  It is a bit of a  western tale with typical Wright sermonizing on morals.  However very  entertaining except the end.  I didn't care for it and thought it was a bit  too neat and too coincidental. However, it wasn't a bad book and it was  worth reading this tale of classic American literature.	2000-01-19
US	51204643	R107X7CC3WAQLM	1565541219	70323362	That Printer of Udell's	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Good Wright Book	Another story by Christian writer Harold Bell Wright set in the state of Missouri at the turn of the century.  The story is set in the city of Boyd, a bustling center.  A homeless man, Dick Falkner, arrives in town in search  of work and food.  He wants to work but has had a string of hard times hit  upon him.  He finds work at Udell's print shop, after many rejections by  the supposed &quot;Christian&quot; folk of the town.   He is found to be a  competent worker and is honest and of strong character.  He becomes  involved with a church in the town, who pastor wants to create a YMCA of  sorts of homeless people.  This is not taken well by the other preachers  nor some of the members of the church.  However, the pastor does create a  YMCA with the help of the young people of his church.   Falkner's  reputation grows and he eventually joins the church and participates in the  formation of the group.  It is the first church he has ever joined because  he has viewed Christians as those who go to church, look holy, and then  leave unchanged and impassive to the world's poor.  During the course of  the story he gets involved with a rich man's daughter and they have an on  again - off again relationship (due to societal circumstances and her  father's rejection of their friendship).   This story is billed as one on  Practical Christianity.  Wright wrote many Christian novels that are part  romance, part western, and part literature.  This one was syrupy at times  and I felt that the organizing of the YMCA-like organization was lost in  the development of Dick Falkner's relationship with Amy Goodrich.  There  are also many others characters that make this story colorful and  interesting.  However, it was a bit like the other Wright book, The Calling  of Dan Matthews, so the ideas were a bit redundant.  However, the crux of  the book is that being a Christian is more than going to church once a  week, but following and implementing the teachings of Christ.	1999-12-25
US	51204643	R2BAOLJEC6N98O	1565540484	227370882	Calling of Dan Matthews, The	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Good Wright Book	A young, rookie, naive preacher comes to the Ozark town of Corinth to take the reins of the church.  He was raised in the mountains and is a strong man.  He quickly generates a rapport with the working class of the town.   However, the church elders dislike him on account of his sermons drifting  from the old &quot;Jerusalem&quot; stories they are accustomed.  Instead,  he preaches loving the down-trodden and the poor.<br />The problem is that the  church elders have reasons for disliking the people Dan preaches love for.   The chief elder, a &quot;Judge&quot; Strong, collects property and would  like to possess a widow's farm.  Matthews, becomes friends with widow and a  local female pariah (who's father shot the widow's husband), which angers  the elders.<br />The crux of this romance / western book is how much of an  individual a minister is.  To collect his salary, must he spout the elder's  / church's law regardless of his moral feelings or does he have a right to  disagree with the policies of the church?  Ultimately, the church politics  win and a great minister is forced back to his homeland (winning a bride in  the process).<br />This book was rather deep.  There were many wise paragraphs  involving the purposes of church and religion.  I think Wright felt that a  belief in God and a practice of his teachings were more important than  going to church for the sake of going to church.  Dan Matthews finds out  the hard way that all people don't believe this and that some of the  church's doctrines have ulterior motives.	1999-12-02
US	51204643	R1S06NWRFQUTED	0813915147	858811003	The Sheltered Life	Books	3	24	37	N	N	Long-winded Glasgow book	A fairly dry story which takes place in the early 1900's to the brink of WWI in Virginia.  It is about women, and their relationships ( or lack thereof ) with men.  However, the focus is on the youngest, who is  8-years-old at the start of the story.<br />The 8-year-old becomes acquainted  with her mother's best-friend's husband.  Through the years they are close  and share a close bond. Eventually, she falls in love with him despite  knowing she shouldn't.  Not until the daughter comes of age, and the wife  finds out, tragedy strikes.<br />The title, I believe, comes from the lack of  the exposure and isolation that the girl received.  She knows little about  except her small environment.  I think this parallels the current attitudes  that was prevalant in those days about not wanting to talk about troubling  things, especially by women.<br />Overall, the first half of the book was  exceedingly dull and a bit confusing.  There was a time when I almost  considered putting it down, but I am glad I stuck with it.  There are many  nuggets of wisdom about life and man/woman relationships that can be found  in the book.	1999-12-01
US	51204643	RML35QD0W5FS1	015610685X	523228337	Barren Ground	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Great Glasgow book	This lengthy story covers the life of a farm girl in rural Virginia around 1890 through the early 1920's.  The novel starts out with her madly in love with another villager.  A day before her wedding she is dumped.  Her  financee decides he is going to marry another villager.  <br />She decides she  is through with love and finds that men are more trouble than they are  worth.  The character's reasons, resoltuions, and actions are extremely  admirable.  Not focusing on relationships, she is able to rise from poverty  to run a successful dairy farm.  On the other hand, just about everyone  else in the town become failures and poor (including her financee and his  wife). <br />Sometimes, I found myself admiring the main character, Dorinda,  and other times feeling pity that her loveless life was filled with work  only.  It seemed one-faceted and at times filled with biting man-hating  resentment.  There was a lot of substance to this book and much could be  written and studied about it.  Another book to be filled under &quot;read  again.&quot;<br />This is definitely one of Glasgow's best pieces of work.	1999-12-01
US	51204643	R35AST6D94CUQU	0960992626	769238588	Kings Row	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Great Book	One of the few positive things I got out of Stephen King's &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot; was a mention of this book.  King had grouped it with the likes of Grace Metalious's &quot;Peyton Place&quot;.  Indeed it is very  similar and like a modern soap opera.<br />King's Row is a fictional, small  town in the rural south.  The story starts in the 1890's with the main  characters Parris Mitchell and Drake McHugh in early high school.  They are  best buddies.  Drake is a happy go-lucky boy who chases women and loves to  party.  Parris is more reticent and sober.<br />The long novel (almost 700  pages) follows their lives until their early 30's. They go through various  romances (with very unexpected consequences), business operations and  changes in their lifestyles.  Drake starts off wealthy and the scourge of  the town, however, he is bilked of his money and must start over. Parris  studies to become a doctor and is well regarded throughout his career. Many  of King's Row citizens have a quirk about them.  Some are honest and  upstanding, but there are others who have neuroses about them (including a  doctor who likes to inflict pain on the sick rather than heal).<br />This book  appears to have caused quite a stir when it first came out.  Parris and  Drake have sexual escapes that rival the &quot;bad boys&quot; of the  fifties.  Instead of the hot rods they cruise around in &quot;rubber wheel  buggies&quot;.  Quite a change indeed from the proper southern women  portrayed by the likes of Glasgow and Margaret Mitchell.  There is also  mention of homosexuality and incest.  Like Peyton Place, there are sobering  moments that the characters go through.  Parris is very moralistic and easy  to look up to and there are lessons to be learned about character in the  book.<br />This was a breath of fresh air.  Fun to read, and yes long.  At  times the action was a little light, but near the end I couldn't put it  down.  A movie was made based off the book (starring Ronald Reagan no less)  and a sequel was written.	1999-11-24
US	51204643	R3S8JS536VGR70	0813916151	586275437	The Romantic Comedians	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good book	This book starts out with 65-year-old judge Gaileil Honeywell feeling lonely.  He has had a comfortable marriage for 30-some odd years, however he is now a widower.  An obvious choice for his next wife is his old  fiancee, who is still waiting for him, however he has no interest in  her.<br />What strikes his eye, though, is a striking 23-year old.  Annabel  has been recently dumped and is &quot;through with love and young  men&quot;.  She is not attracted to the judge but finds him to be  sophisticated and successful.  She has been poor and desires a more  comfortable life.  <br />After a brief romance, they marry.  However, their  generation gap quickly proves troublesome.  About a year into their  marriage, the judge has worn himself out trying to keep up with Annabel and  becomes ill.  Annabel, meanwhile, seems to enjoy going to dances and the  judge's money has made her quite a catch.  It isn't too long before she  finds a young man who sweeps her off her feet.<br />Glasgow, a feminist writer  leaves some questions at the end of this book.  Is she against marriage?   Is this story merely a look at the changing morals after WWI?  Should  people dump Victorian standards in search of pleasure seeking?  Does she  approve of Annabel dumping her kindly husband for a younger man?  Perhaps,  Glasgow wrote this book as a warning for older men wanting younger woman  (and vica versa) as Glasgow seems to have a keen understanding of the  interrelationships between men and women.	1999-11-24
US	51204643	R1Q1609YJIBNWQ	068485497X	669001158	Duane's Depressed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great conclusion to the Last Picture Show	McMurtry concludes the story started in &quot;The Last Picture Show&quot; and &quot;Texasville&quot;.  Duane, one of the principle characters in TLPS and TV, is in his early 60's, rich from the oil business.  His family is  just as troubled, crazy and dissipated when we left them in Texasville.  They are all older and now Duane has a passel of grandchildren living in  his mansion.<br />The story starts out as he pulls into his garage in his  pickup truck and decides he's finished driving, for good.  In fact, he  decides, he is done with life and goes off to live by himself 6 miles from  the house in a utility cabin.  He walks everywhere, which is unheard of in  the middle of Texas.  He claims to have missed too much of life while in  the cab of his truck.  His wife and family struggle to deal with his  Thoreau-like lifestyle.<br />Duane struggles with depression as he tries to  figure out where his life went.  What has he accomplished in 62 years?  He  eventually sees a psychologist who helps him realize his problems.  Many of  the prinicipals characters are also written off; they are dead or die in  the course of the story.<br />McMurtry delivers a  powerful character study.   Duane is instantly captivating as well the characters he runs into.  I was  expecting another dull, meretricious tale like Texasville, however, I was  pleasantly surprised in the maturity, the dialog, and the well-defined  characters.	1999-10-20
US	51204643	RPD1M3NBEFLOR	0671735179	998676068	Texasville	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Lengthy / Long winded book	This sequel to the &quot;The Last Picture Show&quot; came out almost twenty years after the initial release.  However, it probably shouldn't have come out. The main characters that were in TLPS are present, however  they are in their mid-40's and are struggling through a mid-life crisis of  sorts.  Thalia, the small city in which TLPS takes place, did well during  the oil inflation during the late 70's but is now struggling to exist as  the inhabitants lose out on the decline in oil prices.<br />Duane, is the  cynosure of the book (whereas TLPS focused a lot on Sonny).  On the verge  of bankruptcy from the decline in the once rich oil business he struggles  with various impossible events that occur.  His troublesome, bratty kids  are either getting into serious trouble or are getting married and divorced  or carrying on affairs.  Duane is also having affairs ( his marriage is an  &quot;open&quot; marriage ).  The book almost reads of a mate-swapping tale  and one can get confused as to who is sleeping with whom.<br />Overall, the  book tries to shock but comes up empty and rather flat. McMurtry tries to  rely silly events for a tale.  They may be funny, but they lack the  poignancy and meaningfulness of TLPS.  The characters aren't even that  likable and it became a bit of an effort to get through the 500+ pages.	1999-10-13
US	51204643	R2M8NCTCG6HS6D	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Boring........	I ran out and bought this book as soon as I heard it was out.  I had high hopes for this book as the preliminary reviews said it was worth reading.<br />Instead, what the book entails is four soporific tales that were  about as scary as watching the cookie monster on PBS.  The monsters /  ghosts that were thrown into the four entertwined novellas came as more of  an afterthought than an integral part of the story.  The monsters did weird  things but were never 100% explained.<br />The set of stories start with a  young kid growing up in the early 60's.  Stories of Vietnam were in the  paper, but no one paid any attention to them.  As the stories, progress  Vietnam and the tension of the times are depicted.  Some of the characters  from the first story show up in subsequent stories.  The novellas wind up  in 1999 with some of the main characters facing their final endings.<br />I  was left with an empty feeling upon reading many of the stories. They  didn't seem to be conclusive and appeared to be an exercise of patience to  get through them.  King writes well and captures the essence and brand name  items of the time ( he does this too well ) but fails to conjure a tale  worthy of reading.  I was all too glad to go on to a different book.	1999-09-30
US	51204643	RSN4WOTOTCRIK	1565544722	302833635	The Winning of Barbara Worth	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Epic story on capitalism	An epic, fictional, western story of the settling of the desert in the Imperial Valley, CA.  Two rich capitalists, Jefferson Worth, and a New York company decide to channel water and help irrigate the barren land.<br />The  two forces, work together but soon the NY Company realizes it needs money  to satisfy the stock holders, so they resort to &quot;Capitalist&quot;  tricks against Worth and using cost saving techniques at the expense of  safety.<br />There are many characters, but Worth has an adopted daughter,  named Barbara.  The company has a lead engineer named Willard Holmes who  does what the company wants regardless of the moral implications.  He likes  Barbara, but she shuns him saying he lacks conviction and is a mere  puppet.<br />There is significantly more to do this book than what I have  mentioned.  I found it fairly deep for a Western book.  At the time of the  writing, the Socialist / Communist movement was very strong and people  questioned the moral values of Capitalism.  Wright successfully  demonstrates that Capitalism for money sake is wrong where as Capitalism  for the benefit of helping / growing people is right. Worth is the shrewd  business man who wants to make money but at the same time help the people  that are making him rich by allowing them to earn money as well.  This book  could almost be a primer for business ethics.  I'll be looking forward to  reading more of Wright's books as they are well thought out and are always  engaging.	1999-09-21
US	51204643	RADNU0X6P9GN	0899661793	109265461	Penrod and Sam	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Good and Funny Book	Another collection of tales about Penrod Schofield and his playmate Sam. Together, the two of them get into more trouble than Dennis the Menace and the Little Rascals combined.<br />The tales contained weren't as interesting  as the original Penrod however I was laughing out loud a time or two.  Tarkington has the mannerisms down pat for a twelve year-old boy living  around the WW1 area.<br />This book is listed as a juvenile book, however, I  wouldn't recommend it for children unless they weren't afraid of  dictionaries and some politically incorrect references to  African-Americans. There is also a chilling tale about Penrod and Sam  finding an old gun in Sam's father's drawer and what occurred with it.  Too  real in today's world, however the result of the tale was sobering.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	RVZY24GQ33JR4	0899661807	438581513	Penrod Jashber	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Last of the Penrod Series	The finale in the Penrod series.  Not as funny as the previous two books, but good for a few chuckles.  The title comes from Penrod's ambition to become a detective -- naming himself George Jashber.  He and the  neighborhood boys decide to &quot;shadow&quot; a stranger in town --  suspecting danger.  However, nothing could be further from the truth,  however the adventures of the boys are thus chronicled.<br />The stories were  pretty good and it was entertaining.  The cultural elements of being a boy  in the 1910's are captured perfectly.  It is a shame that this series ended  here.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R15M0L4VKAUPGE	0839819501	759697667	The Conquest of Canaan.	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Typical early Tarkington	A tale about a social pariah, Joe Louden, who as a young man is maligned and much talked about in the small midwestern town of Canaan. Leader of the talkers is Judge Pike, the richest and most powerful man in the city. Joe,  even though he is poor, turns to reading books and studying law in his  spare time. He eventually leaves town and gets himself through law school.  He begins to practice law and only handles the scoundrels of the town  because Pike and the rest of the town scolds anyone who should use his  services. With the help of a woman, he wins the respect of Canaan and is  able to usurp Pike's power.<br />I thought this book was fairly dry. There  were some interesting parts, but overall, I found it hard to get into. I  suspect, Tarkington's early works were not as polished and his older ones.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R27Y0M9MYNK7TD	0820318485	749833368	Journeyman: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Typical Caldwell	A traveling preacher comes to spend the week at a small southern farmer's house.  He isn't what he seems to be as all hell breaks loose.  The preacher has more vices than a mob boss; including gambling, pimping, and  seducing folks's wives.  This was one of Caldwell's first books.<br />Caldwell  makes fun of the traveling preacher and people's gullability of them.  He  also makes fun of the revival meetings in which people go into trances and  contortions after having &quot;demons&quot; expelled from them.  Racy and  certainly funny this book is a quick read, which emphasizes the point that  if someone in authority tells you it is okay to do something, it is not  always right just because they said so.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R2UJSF2ABOZRML	0820317365	776145697	Georgia Boy	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Typical Caldwell	This book is a novel / short story collection.  The book involves a poor Georgia family:  an ignorant but pleasure seeking husband, his nagging, hard-working wife, their young teen-age son, and their black workman ( who  is treated as a thankless slave ).<br />Each chapter in the book, is not  related to the previous, but are simply episodes of humor in ignorance.   Their father's money making schemes are a stitch.  Their are also some  sobering stories as well, but mostly it is a funny book.  I found myself  really attached to the family at the end and enjoyed the book quite a bit.   It is typical Caldwell writing here.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	RL7XSKOKAQ5JE	0899661750	369295901	Two Van Revels	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Typical Early Tarkington	This book was a bit difficult to read.  It is set before the Civil War -- President Polk's era ( mid 1800's ) however this wasn't revealed until almost 3/4th's through the book.  In addition, the location ( state ) of  the book was never revealed.  At first I thought it was Indiana ( where  Tarkington is from ) and then thought perhaps Louisiana.  <br />At any rate,  this is a typical Tarkington love story involving mistaken identity.  A  beautiful, rich girl ( Betty Carewe ) comes back from a convent at the age  of 18.  She runs into Tom Vanrevel -- the town saint and winsomest man.   She also encounters Criley, the town love-maker / partier. Both Tom and  Criley are best friends and are partners in a law firm.<br />Her dad warns her  not to see either of them as Tom is an ardent abolitionist and her dad  hates those sorts.  Criley is too much of a scoundrel.<br />However, she  confuses the two and throughout the book thinks that Criley is Tom and that  Tom is Criley.  She falls for Criley thinking that he is Tom.  Criley can  only turn on his charms and take advantage of the situation.  <br />By the end  of the book and after several misadventures, Betty ( the girl ) figures out  who is who.  However tragedy does strike.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R12H5VTY5O7ES7	0375752501	841170407	The Magnificent Ambersons (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Book	This epic story is about the ducal Ambersons -- a rich family in the midwest ( probably Indiana ).  George, the grandson of the rich and famous Major Amberson and his mother are the primary characters.  <br />George's  mother worships him.  There is not a thing she will not do for him.  Her  love for George, ultimately spells her own disaster. George, on the other  hand, is very spoiled, superior, snobbish and self-centered.<br />As the story  unfolds, the reader watches the Amberson estate slowly fall.  The  unsuspecting Ambersons, do not realize this until it is too late.  George,  who has refused to learn a trade ( that is for common folks ) must learn to  survive through his own earnings near the end of the tale.  However he has  been ruined through his own actions and winds up nearly friendless.<br />A  good book describing the rise and fall of families -- who are the center of  attention one day and then forgotten in the next generation.  The message  of the book is that life is like sand hand in one's hands.  For a while you  have it but it slowly slips through one's fingers.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R23NTM5OUGBT1O	0884117030	289874566	Monsieur Beaucaire	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Typical Early Tarkington	This short novelette held much promise.  I actually read the introduction and was told that this was one of the great &quot;love&quot; stories in American literature.  <br />What I got was a muddled story that was hard to  follow and unfeeling. A lowly Frenchman comes to England and notices a lady  in the upper class.  She has noble blood.  He worms his way into an  introduction with her under the guise of French nobility and a made up  title.  She is impressed with him until he is revealed to her as a mere  &quot;barber&quot;.<br />Yet he is not all that he seems to be -- as the story  reveals much to the woman's regret ( after she learns the truth ).<br />I am  glad this book was short, otherwise I probably would've ditched it after  page 50... but I figured I was already almost half way through and stuck  with it...  It started to make sense near the end but there seemed to be  about 35 pages of confusion occurring.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R33KS26LYWQWEB	1892323753	116295353	Place Called Estherville	Books	4	11	18	N	N	Typical Caldwell	A beautiful, young teacher comes to a small southern town to teach high-school.  Within a week's time, a student, a married man, and several bachelors fall in love with her and ask her to marry them.  A little  far-fetched, but interesting and fun.  Crux of the story was the woman  always wants the man she couldn't and shouldn't have and that is her  downfall.  In addition, the women are jealous and start scandalous rumors  about her.  A tense tale.	1999-09-14
US	51204643	R1DG6FWWOTBE7B	0672314924	681230942	Waite Group's COM/DCOM Primer Plus	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fair Into to COM	Problems with book:<br />1)  Book should've mentioned up front they were focussing on COM/DCOM with MFC support.  Focuses heavily on the MFC side of COM/DCOM, which we do not use.<br />2)  Treatment of ATL does not exploit all  the work VC6 can do for you.<br />3)  Book spends two chapters covering C++  and OOD, which they expect you to already know at anyways.  Why not omit  those chapters and spend more time talking about what the book truly is  about.<br />However, this book did give me a good overview of COM/DCOM.   Having read Inside COM and looked at a few others, this book left out a  great deal.  A good intro book but be sure to have Inside COM side by side  with this one.<br />The examples had too much MFC/GUI code.  Should focus on  COM rather than explaining how MFC works.  They also omit how to set up  your projects in VC6.  VC6 can do a lot of the prework ahead for you and  they consistently failed to utilize it.	1999-07-14
US	51204643	R1BVPRR53JSC6X	0884117049	665707566	Image of Josephine	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting WW2 social life tale	A novel set in the middle of WW2 about a lieutenant returning from the South Pacific who is wounded and shell-shocked.  To recover, his colonel instructs him to become an assistant curator at his grand father's art  museum.<br />There he meets the strong-willed, controlling, and virulent  Josephine, a distant cousin of his.  Nobody much cares about her as she is  very domineering and unscrupulous, yet she does have a good side about her  and she is very beautiful.  Recently jilted by her finance, our lieutenant,  figuring his life is worthless, offers to marry his cousin so she can save  face.<br />Through their brief courtship, he regains his strength and his will  to live.  In the end he puts Josephine in her place but he has fallen in  love with her.  However, he will not marry her until she changes. They  exchange words and he returns to the front with a dramatic ending.<br />This  was engaging book, but at times it could be long-winded and a little hard  to follow.  However, it was interesting and enjoyed reading it.  The  &quot;Image of Josephine&quot; title came about in that the lieutenant knew  what he was getting in Josephine -- that there was nothing hidden, where as  most everyone else hides their faults.	1999-07-14
US	51204643	R2NA3V1OHC0VIG	0140184023	669543245	The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Interesting tale of life in the 1900's	An autobiographical tale of a very smart man, ( who is part black / park white ) raised in the north who discovers the south in his late teen years. It is a story of discovery of the world as he learns music, hard work, love, and the dark side of life.  <br />I didn't get the doom and gloom  impression of the south from this author, however, one must remember that  the author here can pass for white.  However, at the end of the book,  Johnson regrets not having taken part in the civil rights issues of the day  and wonders if he has forsaken his race for a wife, children, and monetary  success.  A bit of a rushed ending, but was very informative and  interesting to read.	1999-07-12
