US	51209454	R3QMNYC14TV762	0373895208	575654579	Seven Sunny Days (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Zippy and Fast	An easy beach read is what this book appears to be from it's cover.  And an easy beach read it is. <br /> <br />This book is just something nice to pick up if your brain is fried from finishing some heavy psychological thriller or biography.  There are no frills, no major plot twists, and the story is very simple to follow.  The chapters are short and varied, and the story is told in the past and present, through a number of different character's perspectives. <br /> <br />The main 3 characters in the book is  group of women on a 'hen week' or a week-long bachelorette party in Turkey.  Rachel, the non-confrontational bride, is often in the middle of situations she doesn't want to be in. She spends the holiday feebly trying to battle a group of snippy french women and her soon-to-be mother-in-law.   <br /> <br />Yaslyn is a model close to Rachel's age, who is on the brink of being proposed to, but isn't sure she wants to be tied down.  Her holiday has her torn between the life she used to live, and the strange changes she is being faced with. <br /> <br />Carrie-Ann is the oldest woman, recently divorced, who spends her trip moping and trying to avoid the attention of some undesirable men. <br /> <br />Thrown into all of this is a million subplots, including a horny tennis instructor, a couple on the brink of separation, and a forlorn chess tutor all trying to sort out their feelings for various people staying at the Turkey resort. <br /> <br />Manby does a good job of keeping the story moving, although the seven sunny days are quite stretched out!  This wouldn't be a bad movie really, save for a GLARING oversight by the author on a condition known as Fetal Alcohol Syndrome.  All in all a light, frothy read.	2005-08-16
US	51209454	R1ZR6G8XPAWPM8	0786886994	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle For Survival at the South Pole	Books	3	5	9	N	N	What Coulda Been Great Turned Out Just Good...	Dr. Jerri Nielsen's trek to the South Pole would have been filled with danger no matter what...most of the people that head down there must have a few screws loose to want to spend a year in complete darkness, with extremely cold temperatures, only to lose (in part) their social skills, their memories, and their sanity.  What makes her story somewhat extraordinary is the fact that as the only trained medical professional 'wintering over' at the South Pole, she diagnosed and was forced to treat her own breast cancer with a small untrained support staff. <br /> <br />The book takes you on the journey of how Nielsen got to the pole - and how she got out, and the factors attributed to both.  With mounting frustrations over her estranged family, including her children, and with the US medical system, Nielsen, an adventurer in her mind, took up the opportunity to head down south...way south.  What lay there was a network of amazing friends, and a workload of amazing proportions.  Even in the cancer-ridden portions of Jerri's story, she often mentions lighthearted evenings and events and the plight of others over her own pain. <br /> <br />My problems with the book?  First off I'm not a huge fan of how Nielsen wrote the story.  Her tone is somewhat smug, as though she is writing an insiders guide that can only really be understood by her fellow \\"polies\\".  She re-iterates many times over how special and wonderful it was, and how clueless the rest of the world is, and while I believe the experience was incredible, 160+ pages of exposition about the day-to-day events of the pole isn't necessarily relevant to the tag line of the book \\"A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival\\"...it almost feels as though Jerri would have written this book as a memoir for herself had it not been for the international interest in her cancer case.  The main interest being her cancer, it is somewhat misleading as to what Jerri actually puts into the book, as though she wants to make sure she acknowledges every person that came across her path while she was there, rather than discuss her cancer case. <br /> <br />My second issue was with the language.  At times the medical talk was too intense for the average reader, leaving you drawing blanks.  Most of the understanding of Jerri's cancer came from the back and forth e-mails between Nielsen and her cancer specialist Kathy. <br /> <br />Another issue I had was how the book meandered at times with Jerri's dreams and plans for the future.  There were some e-mails and long descriptions of what Jerri and other wanted to do that I could hardly be bothered to read them in entirety.  I think most people, like myself, would be more interested in the present situation in the story rather than read a two-page letter her brother wrote on sailing his boat into space. <br /> <br />I think altogether I appreciated this book more of a study of Antartica and what it is like to live there (insane by the way) rather than reading it for the sensational story Nielsen promises to divulge in regards to her cancer.  I have admiration for what she did, and think it was important for her to acknowledge the media in some way, but I just wasn't totally sold on the actual book itself.	2005-07-30
US	51209454	RCK95JLQU5EFS	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Good Good Good!	This morning I woke up with a dull, aching, stung feeling in my heart.  Why?  Because I began, and finished, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince yesterday, JK Rowling's 6th book in the series.  Much like The Order of the Pheonix, Rowling manages to make the readers of her book feel as much as the characters, even hours, possibly days or weeks after you have finished it. <br /> <br />The 6th Harry Potter book picks up in a slightly different way - the first two chapters are not Dursley filled, in fact the Dursley's hardly appear at all.  The wizarding world is no longer the blissful place Harry entered into 6 years ago, and I'm sure many of you can guess why.  Still smarting from the losses and destruction from the previous novel, Harry is scooped up from the Dursley's by none other than Dumbledore himself (and no this isn't a spoiler, it's on the jacket cover) who is looking worse for wear. <br /> <br />The rest of the story follows the adventures at Hogwarts.  The students have a new teacher - a sociable man named Slughorn with a penchant for well-connected students.  It also covers the usual tales of Quidditch, how the students are doing in school, relationships, and their futures.   <br /> <br />Interestingly, in every Harry Potter book Harry, Ron and Hermoine come up with theories or uncover clues that might lead them to figure out what down and dirty scheme is going on over on the dark side this year. Order of the Phoenix had many of their theories go completely wrong or just be abandoned.  Obviously frustrated with how things went last year, many of their guesses or concerns go unanswered, despite Harry's insistence on certain points.  Another difference in this book is how there isn't really a connecting theme they are trying to uncover all semester.  The Half-Blood Prince the story is named after, and Dumbledore's lessons, are the only real threads that link the entire book together and lead up to the climax of the story. <br /> <br />Ultimately this bookis about truth - the truth of the past, the truth of how each of the characters feels at present, and the truth as to what Harry must do in the future.  For the first time ever, in an interesting twist, Rowling explains what Harry will be doing in the next book.  Many character's final intentions are determined by the end of the story to be developed in the next. <br /> <br />I know some people will be disappointed with this book, and I can understand why.  The thing we all need to understand is Harry Potter is no longer about a boy entering the wizarding world and learning magic at school.  It's about a young man being part of a wizarding world and fighting to save it.  The books are no longer quite as school central, and after this one I don't think they will be concerned with Hogwarts very much at all, because after all the series is called Harry Potter...not Hogwarts.  These last 3 books (5, 6, 7) are all very inter-connected, although many of the events in the first four play up to what Harry learns in this book.  If you've read the series you can't miss this one, becaues when you're done you'll be prepared to hit the ground running with Harry in the last chapter of his life - as written by JK Rowling.  Bravo! <br />	2005-07-21
US	51209454	R1XC3OVE1H0CS7	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Still strong...	After re-reading the fifth book in the Harry Potter series in preparation for the highly anticipated sixth novel, I decided to write a review, since my opinions on this book have changed a fair bit since I first picked it up a few years ago.  Firstly, let me point out last time I read the fifth one I hadn't re-read the fourth one a few days before, this time I did, and it paid off a fair bit. <br /> <br />The Order of the Phoenix picks up almost immediately after where Goblet of Fire left off, and often refers back to it.  I won't say too much about that except for Harry Potter has made yet another shocking discovery, only this time people aren't so quick to jump on the bandwagon of believing him.  Over the summer the media has heyday mocking him and one of his few `followers' Albus Dumbledore, the headmaster of Hogwarts. <br /> <br />Over the next year Harry and his friends try to cope with the infringement on their rights by the meddling Ministry of Magic, as well as focus on studying for their OWL exams.  Aside from that they also try to, albeit only on occasion, try to decipher what evil forces and good forces alike are working at, but most of their guesses prove to be unfounded or are simply abandoned after sometime.   <br /> <br />The character of Harry Potter himself changes a fair bit in this story.  He is no longer appreciative or communicative with many of those people who have supported him up to this point.  Much of the novel is devoted to Harry's thoughts and outward cut-ups of his friends, `family', and those he trusts the most.   <br /> <br />Many people were disappointed with the way the novel went, since it lacks the adventure, suspense, and activity of the previous books.  Indeed there is no tournament, missing students, or death warnings lurking the halls of Hogwarts this year.  The only thread of continuity throughout the entire book is the odd dreams Harry beings to have.  Yet despite all this, JK Rowling manages to pull together an explosive ending with perhaps the most emotional finale in any of the Harry Potter books thus far.   <br /> <br />Some argue this book is mostly a preamble to the final two, but I believe that it is still an excellent standalone book in the series.  More so than any other Harry Potter book, perhaps more than any other book I've read, Rowling manages to convey the feelings of the characters in the book so much so that you share the same feelings - frustration, anger, and confusion - and perhaps that is truly the mark of an excellent writer. <br />	2005-07-05
US	51209454	R28FF24Y5URCPN	0316735124	924318802	Gossip Girl #7: Nobody Does It Better: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Another solid gossipy book...	The 7th book in the Gossip Girls series picks up almost right after the other one - and probably spans the shortest amount of time of any of the other books.  I suppose author Cecily von Ziegesar didn't realize how successful her books would become and that is why she flew through the first few months of the school year in three books, and has dragged out the second half of the year in the previous few books. <br /> <br />Still \\"Nobody Does It Better\\" is another great Gossip Girl book, fits well in the series, but sort of stalls...almost all of the occurances in this book or in the previous one come crumbling down, and only a few new seemingly semi-permanent changes have occured. <br /> <br />Basically you get to see how people react to Serena and Jenny after their fashion photo shoot, and you get to watch Dan go for it as the new lead singer for a rock band.  Blair & Nate's relationship, which is back on track in the last book, goes through more turbulence.  Blair, Nate, and Serena finally figure out where they are going to college.  And Vanessa goes through some exciting and interesting changes for once!  The book wraps everything up nicely at the Senior Spa weekend...with much more drama to come of course!  Looking forward to the next one which will likely feature prom. <br /> <br />Just wondering how far von Ziegesar is planning to take the series since she could potentially at this point continue the books for sometime after high school if she wanted.  We'll see - hopefully yes.	2005-06-16
US	51209454	R37Y6OKDXQ546F	0767917804	91942604	Wolves in Chic Clothing: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Fun, Fun, Fun - With Likable & Lucid Characters	Catty & Clever are the two words I'd use to describe the second novel from authors Carrie Karasyov and Jill Kargman.  The story is a grown-up version of the film Mean Girls, set on the streets of upper-crust New York.    The description of the book that you'll most often read is only partially accurate.  Yes the story is essentially about a young woman with dreams of being a jewellery designer named Julia.  By `chance', Julia gets the opportunity to meet the young and hip heiress to the store, Lell, on the day of Lell's wedding.  Something about Julia strikes Lell and those around her, and most of them devise plots in their minds to use Julia for one purpose or another.    What the book doesn't dispel is how the story is not just about Julia.  The other characters, including the other leads such as Lell and her friends, as well as much more minor characters, all get time to narrate the story from their point of view, albeit in third-person. The other main characters aside from Lell include Lell's husband Will, who develops the hots for Julia upon laying eyes on her - at the alter!  Lell's best friend Polly also becomes intrigued by Julia at the wedding, and plans to use her as a pawn to stir up trouble between her friends.  Finally Hope is probably the least affected directly by Julia, but is one of the best characters since she isn't quite as catty but is just as interesting as the other girls.    This book is a bit on the slow side to begin, but after the first couple of chapters you probably won't be able to put it down as you get into the heads of New York's top society ladies and gentlemen - although they are anything but well-mannered.  Scandals aplenty abound as Julia arrives on the scene - including financial woes, affairs galore, family conflicts, threats and promises, and a criminal charge here or there.      All in all a great read, especially to curl up with on the beach!	2005-06-10
US	51209454	RLPQKBKJN9KMO	0689869843	198914586	The Watcher's Guide, Volume 3 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Lacks the bite of the previous volumes...	I had this book for quite some time, but deferred from reading it until I re-watched seasons 5, 6, and 7 - which this book covers.  If you are not familiar with the Watcher's Guides, they are books designed for Buffy fans filled with (in the past) episode guides, character summaries, memorable quotes, crew and cast interviews, and photos from the show.      This book however, cuts down what it features.  There are basically two main sections - the episode guide, and the 'essay' section.    The good news is the episode guide is fantastic - perhaps the best of the 3 Watcher's Guides.  Filled with fun facts, trivia, detailed synopses, and skipping over some of the more irrelevant sections found in pervious editions (Buffy's Bag of Tricks in the first book comes to mind), the episode guides are the highlight of the book - as they were with the previous Watcher's books.  Squeezed into the Season 6 section is a little pop culture quote area filled with references the 'trio' made in season 6.    The two colour photo sections are also in tact, the first featuring glossy publicity shots (and screen stills) of all of the major players throughout Buffy's final three seasons.  The second photo section is really interesting actually, as virtually all of the photos are behind-the-scenes shots right up until the series finale.    The essays were something I put off reading for quite awhile, figuring they were boring.  I finally finished off the guide last night, essays and all - and was surprised at how heartfelt some of them were.  For the most part, each essay is written by a really in-depth fan of the show, and you can sense their attachment to the subject they cover.  Dawn, Johnathan, the power of love, British fans, and Buffy as a post-modern show are among the subjects covered.  The author of this book, Paul Ruditis, also analyzes the fourth season closer, \\"Restless\\" which is filled with dream sequences.  Personally I found some of his observations to be useless and speculative, but others were quite inquistive and interesting.    I think most people are disappointed because this book dropped virtually everything from the previous Watcher's Guides and filled the last 100 pages (approx.) with essays.  And we all know what springs to mind when we hear that word - boring!  But they're not!  Really!  However, granted, this book did lack the flow and completeness that the others had.    My only grace here for Ruditis is the fact that this guide is much like your senior year yearbook, if you get it in the fall after you've graduated.  How are you meant to track down all of your 'classmates' if the class (or show in this case) has disbanded?      This book is still a good addition to the Watcher's collection, as the episode guides are great, but don't be expecting the extreme in-depth coverage of before (especially when comparing this to the second Watcher's Guide).	2005-05-26
US	51209454	R3E9ZIH85YG7WS	0312321287	168259740	Departures	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Portrait of a Family	This book read very much like the Academy Award winning movie American Beauty - an outsider's chance to peer into a normal family life and find out (by looking closer) all of the inconsistencies in their nuclear lifestyle. <br /> <br />The story follows the VanderZee's, a family with two parents (Malcolm, a university professor, and Esme, a former artist turned stay-at-home mom) and four children: Suzen, Evan, Hallie, and Aimee.  Suzen, aged seventeen, and Evan, fifteen, take turns alternating the story in brief tableaus rather than chapters - describing scenes from their personal lives, their social lives, their inner thoughts, and during events in which they are both present. <br /> <br />Suzen is bitter and resolved to distance herself from her family - losing herself in her work at a local nursery.  She dreams of living in the english countryside, and falling in love, and as the book travels along she begins to question just who she should be looking for love from. <br /> <br />Evan is more similar to Suzen than either of them would like to admit - he is also angsty and distanced, but in a much less obvious way. He lives in a dream world, like Suzen, but his consists of drama, glamour, and aspirations to live in Europe, or to at least hook up with a cute girl in one of his classes. <br /> <br />The story weaves each of the six family members lives together over the span of a few weeks - with everything from a near-death experience, a suspected affair, and secret plots and twists developing in each character's life.   <br /> <br />While Cook manages to create a realistic portrayal of family life, without being too cliched or over the top, she fails to conclude all of the little hints of storylines she drops in the three quarters of the book.  The climax of the novel is messy and not particularly relevant to Evan or Suzen's lives - it is merely the event which spurs Evan and Suzen to come to their own personal epiphanies. <br /> <br />All in all this is a good read, where Cook manages to take ordinary people, and ordinary situations and conflicts - and make them entertaining, engaging, and captivating - albeit, a little but unfinished.  Then again, perhaps Cook's point is life cannot be summed up in a book - after all, you only see the story from two character's perspectives, which might not even give you the whole story.	2005-05-24
US	51209454	R4B9QQ9BR4UJV	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Delicious Guilty Pleasure :)	Let me start this off by revealing a not-so subtle secret: Sophie Kinsella's first non-Shopaholic book, Can You Keep A Secret? delivers - albeit a few tiny hiccups, and I'd certainly reccommend it. <br /> <br />The story follows a 25 year old Londoner named Emma Corrigan, who is a bit lost in her life as we first meet her - unsure of her career in life, a bit nervous about her long-term relationship, and annoyed with various persons and happenings in her life.  After a disasterous marketing meeting, Emma boards a plane to return home, only to think she is going to crash.  In a grip of terror she spills all of her most intimate secrets to a complete stranger, then minutes later, discovers, no, they aren't going to crash after all. <br /> <br />That might be enough to shake any girls nerves up, but Emma's go through the roof when the 'complete stranger' turns up at her office as the CEO of the company she works for.  The story then follows many twists and turns as Jack Harper (the CEO) taunts Emma with his knowledge, and the two of them sort out what they think of one another. <br /> <br />All in all a sweet, fun, enchanting read that had me gobbling it all up within a couple of days.  It would have been much faster had the first couple of chapters moved a bit quicker, but the majority of the book is quite the page turner. <br /> <br />The main reason why I'm giving the book four out of five is despite is hilarity, unique and detailed characters, and intriguing storyline, I found Kinsella relied a bit too much on the mechanisms that are already in place in her Shopaholic books.  In fact for the first few chapters I kept on expecting to be reading a Shopaholic book. <br /> <br />The main character Emma is much like Becky Bloomwood (star of the Shopaholic series), in that she is quirky, impulsive, easily upset and nervous, and rather concerned with her appearance.  Then there are other similarities - the dashing, wealthy, older male character, the slightly ditzy friend(Christina, Emma's work chum fills this role), the twist early on in the book further complicated by a second twist much later on in the book, and in general the style of writing.   <br /> <br />Granted it is a unique style, and Kinsella does what she knows best.  In general I give her props for writing a book outside of the series that has made her famous, and for writing a book well.  Pick it up if you like Kinsella's writing, chick lit, or are just looking for a good read this year.	2005-05-02
US	51209454	R1L8HXN587DPPU	0385729359	318256739	Girls in Pants: The Third Summer of the Sisterhood	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Simple...	I have complicated feelings about this book - which is funny given what I'm going to write about it. <br /> <br />I've read all three of the Sisterhood of Travelling Pants books, the first because my Mom owned, the second because I found it in a discount book store, and the third because I flat out wanted to read it. <br /> <br />I think my problem with these books is the fact that I feel a real strong connection with each of the individual girls in the book - Lena, Bee, Tibby, and Carmen, but the thread that holds them together - their friendship - is lost on me. <br /> <br />I just feel like Brashares is trying to hard to make their relationship so incredibly special, and I feel like in each book the depth of their friendship has become more and more contrived.  The pants have even lost their significance a bit.  Ultimately, I read this book for the individual storylines, because I like each of the characters. <br /> <br />This isn't entirely Brashares fault though.  For one thing, its hard to understand the depth of a fictional relationship between four girls when all you see is their summers together.  Beyond that, they spend most of the summer apart (in each book), and are quite involved in their own lives. <br /> <br />The other thing that left a slightly bitter taste in my mouth is the way Brashares paints the characters in terms of their naivete.  I'm not even two years past where these girls are in this book and I sometimes feel like they are going into high school, not college, given the way they respond and react to things.  I also thought Brashares was trying too hard to please her primary target audience - pre-teen girls, and not accurately representing the experiences one goes through at the cusp of turning eighteen. <br /> <br />Still, this book is an improvement over the last one, although the ending left something to be desired as it wrapped up the girls friendship (for now or forever? who knows).  I gave it four stars because it drew me in, as allof Brashares books do, and made me care about the characters - individually. <br /> <br />Lena's storyline is probably the most simple - with one main goal in mind - and is the only one that doesn't really involve boyfriend-type love, at least not to the degree the other books do.  She is dealing with her love of art, which is finally further developed in this book. <br /> <br />Bee, my personal favourite character and the one who I believe has shown the most growth over the three books, takes the lessons she has learned in the past two books and applies them to a situation where she is forced to deal with a powerful part of her past. <br /> <br />Tibby, probably my least favourite character, has a strange storyline.  She learns about growing up and branching out (ha ha once you read this book you'll get the pun) in a way that ultimately leads her to love - but after a very long and backwards journey.  I felt lke her storyline was somewhat disjointed, like Brashares was trying to use certain threads from past Tibby storylines to weave together an epiphany, but it fell short a bit.  Especially because one of the main characters in her story is more or less absent for a large chunk of the summer. <br /> <br />Finally Carmen.  Once my least fave character, now slightly more interesting.  She is still the least grown up - and still suffers a lot of faults that she had in past books (impatience, rash behaviour, jealousy, lying, freaking out) but this time it works out in a pleasant way for her - and she actually realistically transforms the most. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a good book if you like the series.  Its a bit sappy at times admittedly, and I was disappointed at the choice of quotes that are placed between chapters as they were contrived and somewhat unrelated to the story, but I can't help but like these books.  They don't rely on sex, extreme angst,  and a happening social scene to keep the ball rolling...they're well written, thoughtful, and allow you to form your own relationships with the characters when Brashares fails to do so between the girls.  A good summertime read. <br /> <br />	2005-04-08
US	51209454	R2XABA7IZQQ7U8	0771080832	992508051	Cowboys and Indians: The Shooting of J.J. Harper	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Good Story - Terrible Book	I was given this book to read as part of my journalism program in the city where Gordon Sinclair Jr writes his column.  I wasn't too familiar with his writing prior to beginning this book, and I hope not to become anymore familiar with it afterward. <br /> <br />Basically, the story in the book is one that needed to be told.  A Native man, guilty of no crime, named J.J. Harper, was killed in a struggle with a police officer in the late 1980's.  The police officer, Robert Cross, was almost immediately absolved of any responsibility in the incident, until a number of inquiries into the death of J.J. Harper were called.  The book is a detailed account of the inquiries and the people affected by them - with firsthand interviews and transcriptions of the events that transpired over a number of years. <br /> <br />While I was moved by the story, and intrigued by the evidence and stories of the people in the story, Sinclair's writing is rotten.  There are a vast number of editorial mistakes, and Sinclair is near-slanderous in some of his writings and editorializing.  The worst part of it all is his insertion into the story.  I've read many works by authors (journalists to be specific) which use themselves in the story - but only to further the understanding of the person or topic that is being discussed.  Sinclair goes too deep into his own personal life, relaying tales of his infidelity and nights at bars and strip clubs.  Aside from that, Sinclair goes on to build up his importance in the book, as if he alone was responsible for breakthroughs in the story, and his opinion caused law and police officials to suddenly change their minds on certain topics. <br /> <br />All in all, if you are interested in true crime stories - that are quite detailed and complex (I'd reccommend keeping a list of names of people and who they are beside you as you read this book as Sinclair doesn't do many favours for those who forget a name or two) - then try reading this book.  Its not bad, but I feel as though Harper's story could've been better told, or at least, better written.	2005-03-29
US	51209454	RA3ELL0UE75MA	0446692867	259444644	English as a Second Language	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Goes round and round...	I hadn't heard of Megan Crane or her novel before I recieved it as a gift, but being a fan of the genre that Crane's book falls into (chick lit if you will), I was looking forward to reading it. <br /> <br />While the book has well-developed characters that keep you glued to the pages, there are a number of flaws with this novel, the first of which - nothing really happens... <br /> <br />The story follows a woman named Alex in her mid-20's who sets off for a literary masters degree in Britain after her ex implies she probably wouldn't be able to get into any graduate programs.  After that its a circular story where you watch Alex go through a loop of drinking/slacking off from school/calling home/getting stuck in her friends romantic lives/crushing on her instructor/making steps towards what Alex deems 'growing up' before correcting herself and saying she has so much more to do. <br /> <br />Through the repetition in the book however, Crane manages to create characters that are real and leap off the page, its almost as if you are reading a bit of a documentary/autobiographical story, which given Crane's history as an American who went over to Britain to also complete her masters degree in literature, could be quite true. <br /> <br />The other reason why I gave this book three stars is beside the fact that the story is simply a repetitious loop, by the end not too much is accomplished.  Throughout the book the story is mainly told through first-person narration with little or no dialogue on most pages, and by the end, there is a solid chunk of about 4 or 5 pages where Alex suddenly goes into Carrie Bradshaw-mode and theorizes and hypothesizes everything about her life to the point where you feel like her so-called 'growth'is just thrown in there to make the novel have a point.   <br /> <br />This book is a solid effort by Crane however, I feel like perhaps she realized her subject matter is a bit dull - the ins and outs of a student trying to complete a masters degree in literature at an isolated british campus with little to no love prospects?  Thus Crane packs the book with petty controversy and pointless alcoholic endeavours (neverending ones I might add) to 'spice' up the storyline.  In the future I'd suggest she might want to look at not sticking to a personal experience and dramatizing it, but just writing about something a touch more interesting! <br /> <br />	2005-01-13
US	51209454	R3W4BD7I59F9ZK	0743247078	7907151	A Secret Word: A Novel	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Draws you in...	I'm not too sure what motivated me to buy, and to read this book, in the first place.  I stumbled across it by accident, and while it isn't a gripping page turner that relies on overdone wit and over-the-top suspense and drama, Jennifer Paddock's debut novel somehow motivated me to get to know each of the three characters that star in A Secret Word. <br /> <br />The book is almost set up like a series of short stories, each chapter following one of the girls during a different time period in her life, spanning over ten years.  The three women are first connected when they witness a tragic accident together in high school, then watches them as their lives seperate and intertwine themselves over the next decade or so. <br /> <br />The most amazing thing about this book for me is I walked away feeling like I had a real deep knowledge about each of the girls,  and when I finished the story I felt as though I'd be reading a friends journal. <br /> <br />Chandler was the character I connected with most, partially because it seemed she got the most word-time from Paddock, and also because Paddock herself seemed to infuse the most of her own personal experience into Chandler's life story.  Chandler is essentially a pretty yet insecure girl trying to figure out what she wants in life, that is easily thrown but somewhat determined to make it through the tragedies that occur throughout her life. <br /> <br />Sarah is Chandler's best friend throughout the book, although they have periods of closer togetherness.  She drifts through identities, trying to place herself in a world where she is an actor, especially when around her discombobulated family. <br /> <br />Finally Leigh is stuck in the life she was born into - working dead-end jobs in her hometown and trying to escape and understand why she is where she is. <br /> <br />All three of the women in the novel explore the relations they ahve to one another, their families, their lovers, and their understanding of tragedy and fortune, creating a remarkably sweet and truthful tale of, to put it simply, life.	2004-12-07
US	51209454	R1LUIJEELXX0EG	0316734756	339754940	Girls on Film: An A-List Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Maybe The B-List	Lately a lot of books have come out in the teen genre and few have lived up to the expectations I 've set for them.  Zoey Dean's second offering in the A-List series was what I expected it to be - a fun, decent, light read that can be picked up at any time. <br /> <br />The story basically follows Anna Percy, a New York high school socialite that moves out to LA to restart her life with her dad and initially plans to take an internship but after that falls through she ends up having to go to Hollywood High with some characters she met at a celebrity New Years Eve bash.  The main pupils Anna has to tangle with are Sam Sharpe (daughter of a famous movie star questioning her sexuality in this book), Cammie Sheppard (Who has some big problem with Anna because her ex-bf is interested in him), Dee Young (Hippie chick whose big secret from the last book is further explored in this one), Adam (A possible love interest for Anna), and a few other minor characters.  Oh and readers of the last book, Ben (Annas one night stand/possible love interest) does come back... <br /> <br />This chapter of the A-List life story follows a few days in Anna's life as she works on a movie project with Sam about class and love, deals with her rehab-escaped sisters return, frets about boys, and lands a new internship at her fathers girlfriends business.   <br /> <br />While there are a lot of fun twists and turns throughout, the main problems I have with this series are the dialogue and plot development.  Dialogue-wise Zoey Dean needs to get a better handle on realistic teen speak, and while understandably she avoids the cliches of Hollywood Valley Girl speech, the text is disjointed and too plain for anyone, especially teenagers to say.  Imagine seeing the story read out by actors and actresses and a lot of the dialogue used just seems too formal and unrealistic for people of this age group and time period to be saying.  The second problem I have is the length of time the action takes.   <br /> <br />Each book generally spans about a week to two weeks which is a ridiculously short time for any deep character and plot development to happen - particularly noted with what happens between Anna and Adam in this book.  Of course it is assumed the storylines are cut so short because Dean has set her characters in the second term of grade 12, which is looking to be a foolhardy choice given that the stories are incredibly unrealistic time-wise. <br /> <br />Either way if you like most of the teen fare out there you'll probably enjoy this novel as well, as its not a terrible read and has enough of a decent storyline in it to keep you interested and guessing. <br />	2004-11-08
US	51209454	R1D4EOE7OV095W	1401351964	844588380	Bergdorf Blondes: A Novel	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not the best I've read	I've read lots of books of this type over the past few years and I was sadly disappointed with Miss Sykes effort.    The main reason why I think her novel falls flat is none of the characters are relatable (understandable since very few of us are in the stratosphere of the NYC elite), but besides that, none of the characters are admirable.     I didn't find myself cheering on Moi (the main character) in her sordid love life, nor did I find myself tearing up during the romantic, sad, or 'funny' parts.  At some points Sykes seems liek she is giving some credibility to Moi's best friend Julie Bergdorf, but then quickly slams her both in her actions and Moi's descriptions of Julie as being crazy, insane, or downright stupid.    Basically you are just flying through the account of Moi's lovelife...if you can call it that, where none of the relationships have any true emotional depth beyond Moi wanting to go to \\"Brazil\\" (figure that one out) and her desire to fufill her quest to own every pair of Chole jeans...    While some of the events and descriptions of the absurdity of New York's upper crust are amusing, for the most part this book trudges on adn focuses too much on the negative (and unrealistic) aspects of Skyes fictional (?) world.    Sadly, a disappointment!	2004-11-05
US	51209454	R2LEYUO0OS5J0B	0385729340	122662979	The Second Summer of the Sisterhood (Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, Book 2)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Summertime Is Still Sweet....	I'm a big reader of books of all kinds - teen fare that I can get away with reading, the oh so popular chick lit (a la Bridget Jones Diary), and of course classics and top sellers.  So I've got a lot to compare Ann Brashares 2nd offering to - and overall I'd give it a 3.5 stars rather then 4 or 3.<br />The story itself picks up 10 months after the last one began - summer break yet again with the girls beginning their yearly tradition of breaking into the gym where their mothers had exercise class together and thus brought the four main characters together -<br />Lena - gorgeous but shy and serious, deals with lessons in love and heartbreak via Kostos (her Greek grandparents family friends son) in this novel...my only problem is that she doesn't really seem to change her attitude much from the last book until the very end, and even then she seems unaware that she is growing up.<br />Carmen - Rehashes the storyline of the last book in this one with a few plot points changed - basically plays a bratty daughter yet again.  Carmen is probably my least fave character in terms of development both plot and characterwise - she never seems to learn anything (which perhaps is a character trait).<br />Tibby - Seems to have a much smaller role in this book, particularly towards the end, doens't really grow much but revisits the previous summer in an interesting way.  <br />Bee - My fave character and in my opinion has the strongest and most interesting storyline - where she impulsively takes off to Alabama to visit her long lost grandmother and to discover more about her bi-polar mother who killed herself many years ago.  Its interesting because Bee appears to be the only one who changed OVER the course of the year, and thus you get to watch her become something from those changes instead of just re-visiting last summers experiences and lessons.<br />All in all I enjoyed Brashares writing, I love the quotes she uses, and she makes you feel for each of the characters.  The only thing I have to criticize her on is the lack of major growth the girls should have experienced during the school year, as the mistakes they made in this book were far too similar to the previous years.  Personally the summer before grade 10 and the summer before grade 11 (or grade 11 and grade 12) were completely different times for me, and I think the girls really should've learnt something more then quadratic functions over the year.  Another small criticism is that the girls are almost too functioned on their said plot points...Brashares could've created a more 3-dimensional world but granted a book can only show you so much.  Finally I think she makes the girls a bit over-emotional at times to the point where it becomes unbelievable.  However if you are into the ever popular continuity-necessary teen novel that dominates the market today, then pick this (and the first) book up for some fun summer reads.	2004-07-14
US	51209454	R3JZEG9D9O1OPH	0316735183	287192859	I Like It Like That: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Not as good as the first 4 but still very readable!	An avid fan of the GG series, I was really excited to find that Cecily Von Ziegesar has released a 5th installment after a dry spell.  This segment of the lives of rich and popular (and not so rich and popular) private school new york teens follows them a few days before, during, anda fter spring break.<br />The only reason why I gave this book 4 stars instead 5 is that it seemed much more focused on a very short span of time - one that isn't too long after the last book was set.  Its almost as though von Ziegesar wrote the first 4 books with the hopes they would do well, and cover as much of the school year as possible, but now that they are so popular she is trying to stretch the series out by only writing about one week, instead of one or two months of time passing by.  A nice possible feature is that the books do not necessairly need to end when the senior year of the central characters of the story ends, since they all go to different schools anyway in high school it is still possible to at least write a little bit of GG in college...there are always those crazy holidays to get the kids back in NYC together again!<br />Regardless of which the book is still very entertaining and keeps you captivated and guessing as usual, as if you are yourself one of the interested teens curious to find out just who gossip girl is, and check in on the lives of some of the most interesting people residing in New York.  Featured in this book - more clues to who GG is, what Blair, Serena, Nate, Chuck, and Georgie get up to on a ski trip, whats up with Jenny and her new man, and the fate of Vanessa and Dan.<br />The next book promises to be just as captivating as it is left right on the brink where von Ziegesar could've let more happen but has chosen to keep us waiting.  Until next time, you know you love her books :)	2004-06-04
US	51209454	R2OFA1IAVD98Q2	2253061018	568782669	Kaleidoscope	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nature Vs. Nurture Steel Style	This is actually the first Danielle Steel novel I'd ever read and since there was no synopsis on the book anywhere I had no idea what I was reading about.  After finishing the story I sorta came to the conclusion that it is almost an exploration of nature versus nuture in terms of how people turn out.<br />The story follows two generations of a family, starting with two friends that meet in WW2 and their interactions with a young frenchwoman named Solange.  In the end one of them marries Solange and they lead a nearly perfect life with a tragic ending, leaving their children orphaned and eventually seperated.  The story picks up again in bits and pieces about each childs life and how they progress based on their new living conditions, and when the other friend - the one who wasn't married to Solange - is near death he wishes to seek them out again and make sure that each child is ok.  Romance, breakups, disturbing sequences, and questions of self and ones place in the world arise and the ending of the story comes somewhat full circle to the beginning but overall it is a bit cheesy.<br />Regardless of which the story itself is captivating, and if this is typical of Steel's work then you should be satisfied.  The story is well connected, if not particularly well stylized, it is written in very generic form where everyone is gorgeous and the world is nearly perfect, even the 'bad' people in the story are perfectly bad.  While the book doesn't send out any major messages to its readers, it is a fun intriguing read for the summertime.<br />And if you are wondering about the title Kaleidoscope, it refers to how with each turn of said toy, even though you have all the same pieces on the inside you see something completely different in the little window.  Just like with each of the children in the story, while they all started out in the same living conditions, each of their lives took a different turn and produced different images...yet Steel is quick to point out they share certain mannerisms, hence the nature versus nurture question.	2004-05-03
US	51209454	R1EDWMGZ5TZBDA	0385295944	568782669	Kaleidoscope	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nature Versus Nurture Steel Style	This is actually the first Danielle Steel novel I'd ever read and since there was no synopsis on the book anywhere I had no idea what I was reading about. After finishing the story I sorta came to the conclusion that it is almost an exploration of nature versus nuture in terms of how people turn out.<BR>The story follows two generations of a family, starting with two friends that meet in WW2 and their interactions with a young frenchwoman named Solange. In the end one of them marries Solange and they lead a nearly perfect life with a tragic ending, leaving their children orphaned and eventually seperated. The story picks up again in bits and pieces about each childs life and how they progress based on their new living conditions, and when the other friend - the one who wasn't married to Solange - is near death he wishes to seek them out again and make sure that each child is ok. Romance, breakups, disturbing sequences, and questions of self and ones place in the world arise and the ending of the story comes somewhat full circle to the beginning but overall it is a bit cheesy.<br />Regardless of which the story itself is captivating, and if this is typical of Steel's work then you should be satisfied. The story is well connected, if not particularly well stylized, it is written in very generic form where everyone is gorgeous and the world is nearly perfect, even the 'bad' people in the story are perfectly bad. While the book doesn't send out any major messages to its readers, it is a fun intriguing read for the summertime.<br />And if you are wondering about the title Kaleidoscope, it refers to how with each turn of said toy, even though you have all the same pieces on the inside you see something completely different in the little window. Just like with each of the children in the story, while they all started out in the same living conditions, each of their lives took a different turn and produced different images...yet Steel is quick to point out they share certain mannerisms, hence the nature versus nurture question.	2004-05-03
US	51209454	R1YU4M3H9X3TUZ	0312313810	265469425	The Dirty Girls Social Club: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fun and Fiesty Read	Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez's debut novel, The Dirty Girls Social Club is a sizzling yet not entirely substantial read.  It follows the lives of 6 latina women who were best friends in college in the media program that call each other Sucias, or spanish for Dirty.<br />While the first 40 pages are somewhat drab, as you get into the novel which is divided into parts for each woman, you find yourself truly interested and rooting for each character.  Essentially most of the conflicts in each girls life revolves around an aspect of their love life, but there is a more far reaching element to Valdes-Rodriguez story; the question of the place of each of these women in the world, as an immigrant in some cases, or as an outsider in another respect, or in terms of their position as a Latino woman.<br />The 6 women include Lauren (a newspaper columnist who makes destructive decisions), Usnavys (a larger charity-working woman who loves to flaunt her assets and isn't happy to settle down with anything), Rebecca (uptight and miserable magazine exec), Elizabeth (Colombian news anchor that is placed in the news spotlight for a secret), Sara ('happily' married with some bad consequences), and Amber (Mexica movement princess who is seeking a music career in her hippie-type lifestyle).<br />While reading this story, which does capture your attention as a guilty pleasure, you might find yourself dissatisfied with the level of language used, the book itself is not one of considerable merit. However the spanish terms and feel to the book are very connected and give it its own character, and afetr finishing it I found myself using a few of the terms and slangs picked up throughout.  When I looked for a theme in the book that all women, latino and others alike, could relate to, I found that a big part of the plot was what makes these women happen, and in turn had me asking what makes me happy.  Essentially Valdes-Rodriguez shows that the thing that gives each sucia their happiness, is freedom- on many levels.  So just like each Sucia finds her path to freedom, you have you freedom to choose whether or not you want to read this novel.  A great fun read for the summer that gives you some perspective into the Latina world in a variety of settings!	2004-04-19
US	51209454	REE469MANYZ13	1400051452	50839627	Wedding Season	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Tis The Season...	The thing that struck me about this book as I finished it wasn't the character development (for I found most of the characters too closed off), or the 'gripping' plot (it isn't particularly chaotic despite the books premise)...but what I took away from it.  I found as I read the story that it really gives you some perspective on the institutions and conventions in our society, particularly (and obviously) surrounding Marriage and Weddings.  I was drawn into the ideas of why some people cherish 'til death do us part' and why others, such as the main character, are so opposed (or maybe not) to weddings.<br />The story has the general premise of Joy Silverman, a 29-going on-30 year old woman with a perfect live-in boyfriend, who is faced with the dilemma of attending 17 weddings in 6 months, including her 5 nearest and dearest pals, both of her parents, friends of friends and friends of the family...you might assume, judging by the cover (a big no no) and the intial outline of hte story on the back and the catch phrase at the beginning, that you will be catapaulted into detailed accounts of the most important of these weddings...<br />Instead, Cosper uses the events that take place at the weddings to bring her anti-marriage heroine Joy to question her morals and beliefs in terms of why she is so against marraige, when all of these other people in her life are committing to one another.  I think the story concept is original in itself as you are reading about someone who goes against hte conventions of both what we expect in society (marriage!) and what we expect from a 'romantic comedy-bridget jones-esque' type book that dominates the market these days for women (this book is hardly a romantic comedy...whatsoever).  The only thing I found discouraging about the story was that there was a large number of characters and sub-plots introduced that never really went anywhere or contributed to the main messages of the novel, and serve mainly as confusing backdrop storylinesthat don't contribute to a more cohesive and concise book.<br />Regardless of the criticisms and congratulations I have to offer to Miss Cosper, I have to say that this book, while not the most enthralling of the ones I have read lately, was definiately one of the most unique and promising in terms of what you have to gain from reading it.  Single and married women alike should not go into this story and expect a super dramatic romance and climax and all that jazz that you find in most books on the market, but should rather read this book for the experience and the values you will pick up when you are done.	2004-04-12
US	51209454	R2OLKPFRIAO4YG	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Deeply Engaging and Moving	Among the rather large genre of books about women in their mid 20's - early 30's this one has been one of my favorites to read.  An enjoyable tale about a Nanny taking care of a 4 year old Park Avenue kid named Grayer \\"X\\". (...)The only reason why I gave this book a 4 is the ending really leaves a lot be desired. It is all rather abrupt, and while you can fantasize and predict what the last 10 pages or so will lead to in the future for the X family, it would be nice to have a more complete conclusion.  Perhaps a sequel will be written, but if not I'm sure everyone that reads this story will come up with hopeful, realistic, or their own favorite future for the X'es, particularly Grayer, and of course our heroine, Nanny.  A good read if you like this genre, and insightful into the demanding life of being a Nanny.	2004-04-01
US	51209454	R20ZHF9OI0CF1T	0375713042	41346786	Island: The Complete Stories	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An English Assignment Gone Well...	When I first picked up my copy of Island I had two thoughts. Wow this cover is pretty, and Wow this book is (relatively) big, at least to read in a week or so.  However once I started reading the first few lines of &quot;The Boat&quot; (a story I'd coincidentally read the year before and didn't even realize till the end) I found myself liking MacLeod's simple yet descriptive style.  Written in a way such that a reader can picture the story being told out loud, much like traditional maritimes tales are done through oral speakings, these 16 stories each encapsulate the reader leaving you wanting to know what will happen to the characters within the story and beyond.<br />Many of the stories are written from the perspective of an older male looking back on a particular snapshot of atime period in their youth, usually a moment of clarity in coming of age (although sometimes its only just starting, as some stories are set with main characters as young as 8 or 9.  There are variations of lessons of love, death, learning from your parents, upholding traditions, starting afresh, surviving in extreme conditions, and just general lessons of life.<br />I'd recommend this book to people who enjoy short stories, and while they are not my fave genre of writing, these particular stories, although sometimes overly simplistic and almost annoying in terms of some stylistic aspects, will engage a reader to continue reading each story from start to finish.  A triumph in Alistair MacLeod's life is that his collected works can create a whole that is quite powerful.	2004-01-28
US	51209454	R1QZ1H0X92TPSW	0141003944	912576010	Learning to Fly: The Autobiography	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Engaging and Entertaining...	Enter the world of one the most famous yet mysterious women in the world; wife to one of Britain's top soccer players, international music phenomenon, and mother of a baby boy.  Who is she? Posh Spice aka Victoria Adams-Beckham.<br />Victoria takes you through her world from childhood to a rahter current phase in a witty and often sarcastic point of view.  Her childhood is rather sad and lonely, which gives a possible perspective to her perma-pout (ha ha).  Next you are taken into her young adulthood where she is taken up into the world of hte Spice Girls, and that is one of the most fascinating parts.  Every true spice fan has heard of the house in Maidenhead, finding the producer to write their songs, and being formed into the girl group &quot;touch&quot;, but reading Victorias point of view really lets readers know the full story from a real perspective.<br />You get to watch the general rise and fall of the egirls, what Vicky is doing now, and what she has planned for the future.  Also the color pictures included with the book are interesting to look at and provide a candid look at Posh's life.  The only thing I chide her on is that there are way too many allusions to British pop culture which I simply can't follow.  However for a fun, in-depth, easy read, pick this book up and you own't be able to put it down.	2003-09-06
US	51209454	R3RXHT0S57KJU5	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engaging, Fun, Fluff :)	Among the teen books out there this one is really about young adults, or teens acting like adults.  Enter the world of Private School New York, where kids pride themselves on drinking, drugs, disorders, and social status.  This first novel in the Gossip Girl series draws you in so much so taht its possible to read it in one sitting (As I practically did).  The plot seems a little contrived and loose, but is an effective portrait of what Von Ziegesar is trying to display; a bunch of spoiled rich kids.<br />Live through the gossip supplied by a omniscent third-person narrative, and watch as friends become enemies, losers take risks in the social scene, and sex and love battle each other.  A fun book to check out for a change from the usual teen fare.	2003-08-31
US	51209454	R2L78HS27HORAX	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Sweet Small-Town Story...	At first I found this book a bit hard to get into, as the pace is about as speedy as the towns demeanor; that being, small-town and sleepy.  However by the end of the story, I was enchanted by the characters and desperate to know how everything ended up.  <br />The tale follows a mid-thirties woman who defines herself as an orderly town spinster, constantly under the glare of her towns gossiping wives.  Ave Maria's life changes when she discovers some shocking information about her past, and as a result she resolves to rearrange her life in a way that re-directs her entire person.  While some novels are description-driven, others are action-driven, and some others draw you in with the characters.  This is definately the latter as the people and the community are very well illustrated; after all, Adriana Trigiani based many of the characters on real ones from her time growing up in Big Stone Gap.<br />I recommend this book to curl up with and take your time to read as that'll only make you love it more.  I did give it only 4 stars because it took some time for me to really appreciate it, and I found the end a bit drawn out, but now that I've finished it, I enjoyed the lessons I learnt from the novel and the story altogether.	2003-08-14
US	51209454	R2X6G5NSOQHNEM	044661257X	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Keeps you guessing...	Kate White's novel mixes sex, surprise, and mystery skillfully, but not with out a few mishaps along the way.  The story follows an Amateur Investigation by a magazine reporter, Bailey Weggins, a 33 year old divorcee who is more then eager to help out her boss and semi-friend Cat Jones, magazine head honcho, check out the facts after Cat's 22 year old nanny Heidi dies.  <br />  There are a number of colorful characters throughout the novel, but I found at times both Kate White and Bailey were trying to hard to place them into labelled boxes, while the theories Bailey developed opened them up for far too much discussion.  Read: The characters were a bit cliched at times, but for the most part enjoyable enough.  Although Bailey's life is relatively interesting, you are only given glimpses of it as she forges through with her case.<br />  The story itself is a very very detailed look at what a person goes through to get to the heart of the truth.  In this case, Bailey has amazing skills and should really just be a detective, because even when she discusses other articles she is actually working on, you see the amount of detail and questioning she is up to.  While some of the clues and details Bailey stumbles on are a bit far-fetched, and a lot of the leads end up dead (in a metaphorical sense only) the book is very intriguing and kept me wanting to read, mainly just to get it out of the way!  Whether or not the killer is obvious, right under your nose, or if you are looking for hidden clues within the book, you'll have a good time reading it.  The book does end somewhat abruptly in my opinion, and wraps up the conclusion extremely fast, but leaves the reader relatively satisifed in what the purpose of the book is: To see how BAILEY handles the case, not the police.  I reccommend it as a good book to curl up with on a rainy day.	2003-07-27
US	51209454	R3LWRSFFNDVBXT	0609807919	24978645	Second Helpings (Jessica Darling, Book 2)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Even more biting and real then the first...	In Megan McCafferty's Second Offering in the Jessica Darling sagas, we get introduced to her life as a Senior.  With even more pessimistic yet realistic views of life as a suburban teenager, get ready for the rollercoaster ride of Jessica's life as she goes through new steps in boyfriends, sex-type-stuff, friends, dealing with the past, her family, and altogether your typical teenager life.<br />The thing I love about this book is that its SO real.  The average teen book out there puts the main character in some weird crazy situation that only a small majority can relate to: ex, death of a parent, living in a trailer park, etc. etc.  McCafferty isn't afraid to address the fact that hwile in the GRAND scheme of things JD's probs are probably trivial, in her life, they are her world.  Which is why i think I (and many others) can relate.<br />If you're looking for a book where you feel at one with the characters and the plot, definately pick up Sloppy Firsts and Second Helpings for a sometimes sad, sometimes touching, sometimes downright painfully hilariously embarassing and ALWAYS real plot!!!	2003-06-09
US	51209454	R1E66SDO66OF5Y	0609807900	814027021	Sloppy Firsts (Jessica Darling, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great mix of Adult Style with Realistic Teendom :)	Megan McCafferty's novel about 16 year old Jessica Darling is one just about every girl can relate to in some way.  From the dreams of finding that rare true guy friend (been there!), to the agony of not living up to your parents expectations (yep), unrequited love and unwanted love (yessum), to losing and finding your friends (for sure), this book covers a lot of topics that are just downright normal...but are made incredibly interesting through a variety of humorous situations and intelligent narration by Jessica via her personal journal.  McCafferty's book doesn't after-school special teenage-hood, or make it uber boring, or super unbelievable, instead it makes you find the qualities most angsty teenagers have in themselves that relate to Jessica Darling, and draws you in as you look at your own experiences and compare them to Jessica's. (I'm 17 so I can definately relate!).  A great effort, I can't wait to read the second book!	2003-06-01
US	51209454	R2RENW8MTQKZG	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A Story Of Comings And Goings....	And what an amazing book it is.  I was looking up Pulitzer prize winners one day and stumbled across this book, put it on my christmas list, and recieved it from my parents.  A week or so later I began to read it, and despite the lack of your \\"normal\\" plot-grippers in both comics and novels (deaths, love stories, mysteries) in the beginning, the book immediately drew me in.<br />It follows the lives of two jewish cousins from about the age of 19 till around 32 or so, and the adventures that they come across...normally, not fantastically as their created superheros experience.  Joe Kavalier is Sammy Clay's cousin from Prague, escaping right before world war ii really exploded around the world.  His goal being to earn money to get his family over to the USA, Joe agrees to team up with Sammy to create a comic book.  An empire is established, the boys go through relationships, extremely tough lessons, and radical changes until the end when the real magic act of the book is preformed slowly through the final chapters.  <br />Chabon should be praised greatly for his character development, as the thing that kept me desperate to read more is the wondering of what should happen, good or bad, to Sammy and Joe (and Rosa).  You feel like you know them, can picture certain aspects of every single character in the book, as whenever one is introduced, their history and physical description is a deliberate afterthought.  Sammy has thin weak legs, Joe has dark curly black hair, and Rosa has a sharp nose.  Chabon also keeps it interesting by changing perspectives, letting you into the lives of many characters, and providing some fictional relief through the development of the comic book characters.<br />The book itself could really be a comic book, split into dramatic issues of the most exciting parts of the novel.  It combines friendship, romance, trust, adventure, crime, hold-your-breath life threats, cheating, heartbreak, and togetherness in such a discreet way you'll simply sailthrough the 600+ pages.  A definate knockout, I look forward to hearing more from Chabon (although in some ways I don't know if he can ever top this 'crown jewel' in his writing empire ;) )	2003-01-11
US	51209454	R2EU0X54C7391P	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Little Piece Of Heaven...	Everyone has their own idea of heavn, and Alice Sebold certainly makes this the theme of her book.  14 year old Susie Salmon is murdered coming home from school one day, and chooses to watch the human world she left for many years as they struggled and fell apart, then fought to stay together.<br />A really interesting part of this book is you feel a connection through a lack of character development...which is pretty rare.  When your main character/narrarator is already dead, its interesting to see the other characters moving on, while Susie is only developed as memories and stories.  I think Alice Sebold did a wonderful job of incorporating so many characters and connecting them all in this world Susie chooses to observe.  A really clever technique was in fact using Susie as the narrarator because she is omniscent and knows everything, yet she is a real person and character that the novel is based around.<br />Some might question what the point of the novel is upon reading the end, when the story is wrapped up rapidly.  I think the purpose of the book isn't to discover who Susie was when she was murdered, but to discover who she and the other characters come to be after her murder, which makes the ending somewhat satisfying.  Although a few people might argue the last few chapters of the book are too far-fetched, the whole concept of the book concievably is paranormal in nature so if you consider the story to be too unrealistic, keep in mind that the idea of Heaven could really just be a fantasy. (Not to raise any religious questions or anything...)<br />I only give this book four stars because one of the things I was looking forward to in the book isn't revealed (If you read it, you'll probably feel the same way but I won't reveal it) and plus I think the ending scene before hte conclusion feels a bit incomplete, however it goes for a happy yet chilling ending which I could appreciate.	2002-11-26
US	51209454	R1KIKTFZJUHWMS	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Frightening Yet Unlikely Future....	I had to read this book this summer for my advanced english class next year, and wasn't sure what to expect.  I'm not a fan of Maragaret Atwood's writing style in this book, it doesn't fill in enough holes and the endings to some things leave you wanting a taste for more...which I guess is good writing but annoying anyways.<br />The story is about a future life in which religion has taken over.  All of lifes luxeries are taken away for the most part, especially for women.  The narrarator of this story tells you about 3 different aspects of her life: Her past, including her childhood and her married life before the change... The time spent in a training type camp as she was groomed to be a Handmaiden... AND The current moving storyline...her present life. Basically she is enlisted as a Handmaiden, a woman that sleeps with an old powerful guy, in hopes she'll have his child as his wife is too old.  She has a few chances to produce a child before she'll be killed.  Her life is very restricted...no reading, writing, speaking freely, nothing that we have today would be hers really.  ANyway she starts experiencing some luxeries...the old man she has to sleep for falls for her and starts giving her things, and taking her out.  The wife of the old guy devises a plan with her to help her with the baby situation.  Her shopping partner is an underground source.  She even has a free affair with another man.  Basically the story tells you about how the world changed from before, what the training for this life was like, and how horrible it is to live like this.<br />If you are interested in taking a whole new look at that magnificent future you have planned out for you, read this book...however the ending left me most unsatisfied, and I wish more loose ends were tied up!  I guess Atwood wants you to choose the final fate of Offred...oh yes I've figured out her actual name, it's June...there are 5 characters listed in the beginning and the only one not mentioned again as anotherperson is &quot;June&quot;.  Enjoy!	2001-07-10
US	51209454	R2TG3OAEMRSILB	0439086949	146975643	Where Do You Belong (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Bit Different Then The Others...	This Rockett's World book was a bit lame in the storyline department, but it was funny to see all of the characters reactions to the puppy and how  they tried to keep it a secret. Nicoles drama queen sequence was  unesscessary but interesting.  I thought the fact you got to know more  about Rockett's home life [or her sister Juno] was a fresh approach to the  Rockett series.  The storyline may've been a bit little kiddish but the  book is not too bad.	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R3PDI05I164FQP	0439086957	907627964	Who's Running This Show? (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This is the 3rd best book...	Although its shorter then the other 5 Rockett books this book deals with Rockett trying to organize the WPJH talent show after making some poor  choices.  Find out who helps her and if the talent show is a total flop or  a great show!  Who does what? Who ends up in the show? And how does Rockett  solve everyones problems? Find all of this out in this awesome Rocketts  World adventure!	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R32ZHDQLIPCT60	0439044057	316292806	Who Can You Trust? (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pretty Good!	The first book in the Rockett series is the longest one and its totally exciting finding out what the characters are going to do and their  reactions, one of the features of the book. Its funny because of the  previous war between Rockett &amp; Nicole [play the pM games] and finding  out how Rockett uses her Nicole picture to give Nicole what she  deserves...or does she?	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R3NANFUGUZA2NG	0312972687	80290731	Britney Spears: An Unauthorized Biography	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Cheesy but OK	This book praised Britney a little bit toooo much in my opinion. It was interesting with tons of facts and stuff, but because it was unofficial it  didn't have any new info.  The author, Alix Strauss writes tons of books  like this so its not much different then the others. Ms.Strauss uses teen  slang to play up Britneys bio and ends up with a so-so book about the  &quot;beautiful perfect britney!&quot; If you are a die hard fan then try  this one but otherwise don't bother!	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R1UC6FGGD8E7JW	0439082099	41587856	Are We There Yet? (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not as good as the others...	I've got all 6 Rocketts World books and this one didn't rank all that high. there wasn't enough action and the storyline wasn't quite as  interesting as the others.  Its a good read if you love Purple Moon and it  goes nicely in the series but if you are just buying a random PM book then  try another one first!	2000-08-02
US	51209454	RTC16V5QKQQH6	0439082102	386792442	Can You Keep a Secret? (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This One was really great!	I really liked this Rockett book! I found it to be more detailed and longer then the others and it was more entertaining. The storyline was  captivating and it was great to see a character go through a major change.   THe final climax was sorta unexpected, but so was the whole story!  Find  out why Cleve and Miko start hanging out and also find out why Rockett is  spending so much time with Nakili and Dana, and actually getting along with  Dana! This is a great book in the Rockett Series and i loved it!	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R1N7LTQGBZ1D6G	0439063124	601490345	What Kind of Friend Are You? (ROCKETT'S WORLD)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another one of the Best ROckett Books!	The storyline in this one is as follows: Rockett gets invited to join two different election parties, the popular group as Vice President or the CSG  group as Secretary. The problem? If Rockett goes for the popular group she  will be in with them, but she doesn't stand for what they believe in! If  she goes with the CSG group, who she wants to be friends with and believes  in what they stand for, she'll be in for some tough competition and if they  win, she won't have as good as a position. And on top of it all Rocketts  being framed for something a &quot;popular one&quot; is doing. Find out  what happens when you read this excellent Rockett's world book!	2000-08-02
US	51209454	R3EOK5K6JL7GD8	0440916127	122408481	THE CAT ATE MY GYMSUIT	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Sorry but I was expecting more....	I read this book with great excitement, since I'd read there'sa bat in bunk 5, and I'd heard great stories about the book. But a CatAte My Gymsuit didn't live up to the high expectations. I reccommend Edward Bloor By The Way!	1999-10-13
US	51209454	R1771PNW2HEITP	0233992995	77026205	Real Life : Real Spice: The Official Story by the Spice Girls	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This Book was fab!	I bought this book the first chance I got, and it was worth the cost!  It's jam-packed with behind the scenes photos, stories, facts and little extras here and there!  It's full of info and I definately recommend it!	1999-06-13
