US	51200408	R18FFCNMU28W5C	0425192741	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Laugh out loud ~ you have to	Dave Barry's humour column is very spotty, in my opinion.  Sometimes he is enormously funny; other times he writes as though he is straining, and unable to pass anything.  That made this book all the more pleasurable, because there was nothing strained about it.  Strange, yes; the characters, the plot, the whole thing.  But strained?  No way.  It flowed like olive oil through pasta:  easy, fast, smooth, and fragrant.<br /><br />The plot is reminiscent of Elmore Leonard more than anything else, with twists and turns, coincidences and surprises, and lots and lots of bad guys with varying levels of brutality.  The writing, however, reminded me more of Kurt Vonnegut than any other author ~ and that is a definite compliment.  Barry is completely deadpan the whole way through; like Vonnegut, he never lets on that he is hilariously funny.  The writing is deceptively simple, as is Vonnegut's; though in Barry's case he doesn't have quite the same underlying gloomy philosophy portrayed with simplicity.<br /><br />There are a good number of elements of humour here:  The characters ~ several of whom have to be among the most silly you've read about for a long time; the violence ~ absurd, over the top, unbelievable; the plot ~ twisted, and bizarre; the gratuitous and out of place sex ~ including an unbearable farting beauty; and the use of language, which is more under Barry's control than he often has it.  Altogether, this is perhaps the funniest book i've read since \\"Final Arrangements\\", which is, again, no mean compliment.	2004-06-25
US	51200408	R20RMR4GHL1KHX	0971880107	298059673	Wild Animus: A Novel	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Tragedy ~ the character or the book?	A strange book.  One would like to like it, and yet....  Shapero has written a novel showing the dangers of allowing one's visions and dreams to rule one's life to the point of contolling actions.  His protagonist, Sam Altman, who changes his name for no discernable reason to Ransom, becomes obsessed with becoming a ram in the mountain ranges of remote Alaska.  Sam, in the process of realising this vision, destroys his life and that of the only person he came close to caring for ~ other than himself ~ with his monomaniacal actions.  While having vision and passion is important, vital, for everyone's life, i cannot condone Sam's actions ~ brought on as they are by illegal, not to mention dangerous, substances ~ because of the devastating results they bring.  Lindy, Sam's girlfriend-cum-wife, though she is the means of freeing Sam's vision, becomes nothing more to him than the means allowing him to leave society, and she is used, literally, as he uses anyone who might be of assistance in achieving his personal goals, and cast aside.  That obsessive behaviour cannot be approved of by anyone who cares for people as people, rather than objects.  Shapero is convincing, though there is no real explanation of Sam's obsession, other than LSD, in as far as he goes.  In the end, i think, he, Shapero, is willing to draw back, not willing to follow the vision to the point of death and destruction for himself, though he allows his protagonist to be destroyed, brutally.  Like most people, he recognises that vision and passion are wonderful things but, and this is the point Sam could not understand, they must be subordinated to life and its needs.  Sam's tragedy was that he had no self-control, no ability to step back and see himself in relationships with others, and in the end, it killed him, as a great tragic flaw does.	2004-05-24
US	51200408	R6JBQPIRD6GC8	1556434847	806355661	Healing Israel/Palestine: A Path to Peace and Reconciliation	Books	4	33	34	N	N	How to make peace in the world	A thoughtful analysis of the Israeli/Palestinian situation, with some concrete suggestions and affirmations about the way to achieve peace in that land.  From the first, Lerher strongly affirms that he is not anti-Palestinian, nor anti-Israeli; the purpose of the book, and indeed of the Tikkun Community which he represents, is to show how it is possible to be both pro-Israel and pro-Palestine.<br />The main recommendation that Lerner has is one which really strikes the reader as illogical at first, though on thinking it through it becomes obvious that it is, in my opinion, the only possible real resolution to the situation.  That recommendation ~ stronger than a recommendation really, an urging, a plea ~ is for non-violence; not just the absence of violence, but as an active means for change, as Mahatma Gandhi used it, or Martin Luther King, Jr.  Lerner envisions this non-violence being used, first, by the Palestinians; this will have several results, all good.  First,and most important, it will, eventually, work to convince the majority of Israelis who are open to conviction that they do not have anything to fear from the Palestinians, despite the Occupation of their land and the violence practised against them by the Israeli state.  Second, it will have the effect of ostracising the minority of Palestinians who are wedded to violence as a way of life ~ or death ~ and make it clear again that they, and their trainers, are nothing more than common criminals, to be punished as such.  A third result, stemming from the first, and Lerner's plea for the Israelis, is that Israel will be freed to pull back from the Occupation, the holding of the territories taken from the Palestinians during and since the Six Day War, in 1967.<br />This pulled-back position is what Tikkun envisions as the final, peaceful solution:  Israel no longer occupying any of the land left to the Palestinians in 1948; Palestine as a fully functioning nation; neither permitting nor sponsoring violence against the other; both committed to living in peace and, perhaps even, harmony.  Lerner is certainly not naïve enough to think that this result can occur with anything less than full commitment from both sides, and from others in the world too, most especially the United States of America.  To aid in the attempt at rousing people to that full commitment to peace necessary for success, he includes a final section to the book, a series of questions that may well be asked ~ have been asked ~ by those unsure about the process, or the result, or the commitment.  These questions and answers are perhaps the most valuable part of the book, in that they take away a lot of possible reasons for not acting; if you are not going to support the peace process with Tikkun you are going to have to come up with some other reasons why than the usual:  The usual have been answered.<br />The other fascinating section is the first part of the book.  In it, Lerner retells the story of Zionism and the settling of Palestine by Jews without making good guys or bad of either side.  He asserts several times, that such a telling of history, without blame and making demons of the other side, is the prerequesite for any possible peace process.<br />Any possible peace process, i repeat, because it is quite clear that the programme laid out here is adaptable to any and all conflicts within the world ~ Kashmir, Congo, Iraq, the USA against the World ~ in all of them the first step towards true peace is a beginning of an understanding of the Other; the second is a complete commitment to non-violence as a means of conflict resolution.<br />Questions or doubts still may be harboured about the viability of Tikkun's programme; i confess that i am largely convinced through Lerner's writing.against the other; both committed to living in peace and, perhaps even, harmony.  Lerner is certainly not naïve enough to think that this result can occur with anything less than full commitment from both sides, and from others in the world too, most especially the United States of America.  To aid in the attempt at rousing people to that full commitment to peace necessary for success, he includes a final section to the book, a series of questions that may well be asked ~ have been asked ~ by those unsure about the process, or the result, or the commitment.  These questions and answers are perhaps the most valuable part of the book, in that they take away a lot of possible reasons for not acting; if you are not going to support the peace process with Tikkun you are going to have to come up with some other reasons why than the usual:  The usual have been answered.<br />The other fascinating section is the first part of the book.  In it, Lerner retells the story of Zionism and the settling of Palestine by Jews without making good guys or bad of either side.  He asserts several times, that such a telling of history, without blame and making demons of the other side, is the prerequesite for any possible peace process.<br />Any possible peace process, i repeat, because it is quite clear that the programme laid out here is adaptable to any and all conflicts within the world ~ Kashmir, Congo, Iraq, the USA against the World ~ in all of them the first step towards true peace is a beginning of an understanding of the Other; the second is a complete commitment to non-violence as a means of conflict resolution.<br />Questions or doubts still may be harboured about the viability of Tikkun's programme; i confess that i am largely convinced through Lerner's writing.	2004-03-11
US	51200408	RL3DIU0ELW64W	0140367047	695661050	Moonfleet (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of Two Best Children's Books Ever!	This book hung over me in memory for twenty years or more.  Read to us by my mother when I was 11 or 12, I remembered the story vaguely and the title wrongly.  I had tried desultorily to find it over the years, unsuccessfully.  Now, having reread it, aloud, to my children, I affirm that this is one of the finest children's adventure stories ever written.  It out-treasures &quot;Treasure Island&quot; and any other of the same genre.  The sad sacrifice at the end had all three of us in tears as I read it ~ I scarce could make out the words on the page.  Elzevir Block is one of children's literature's finest heroes; a most honourable, strong, wise, loveable, faithful, and ~ despite some of his actions ~ good man.  John Trenchard, the young protagonist, grows up, learns of life most awfully, and is rewarded with the love of a true woman ~ the daughter of his enemy, the book's first villain.	2003-12-23
US	51200408	R3OWL502TPAXUW	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	9	20	N	N	Dishonesty negates book's value	Fascinating book i had been trying to read for a while; it took going to hospital for surgery to actually finish it ~ wonder if that means anything?  It was similar to the book i expected to read, though not quite the same.  I had, with all the blurb and publicity about Ehrenreich's activity, expected to see her take several minimum wage type jobs over several areas of the country, and see if she was able to survive ~ or, rather, to what extent she was not able to survive, since i already knew that she didn't.  What i was not prepared for was the slipperiness with which Ehrenreich approached her self-set task.  In no way, as she reports it, did she make an honest attempt to live within the means she was able to raise:  At one point she declined lodging a woman truly in her position would have had to take; at other points she mentions spending money on, at the least, unnecessary meals out.<br />I was also surprised by the ease with which Ehrenreich slipped in and out of dishonesty; perhaps it is a necessary corollary to the deception which underlies the book as a whole.  Some smaller examples:  Ehrenreich states that she certainly is &quot;not working an eleven hour shift, not without time and a half after eight&quot; though she must know (her footnote implies it) that there is no law compelling extra pay for hours per day ~ it is hours per week that count.  In Maine Ehrenreich and her group loudly and obnoxiously cruise the neighbourhood in their company car, clearly not the purpose for which it was given them.  Perhaps by the time she got to Minnesota and the selling at Wal-Mart she was getting tired of what she was doing; that is surely the kindly way to look at her behaviour because, by her own account, she did not give Wal-Mart value for the money they paid her.  Instead, she set about trying to be disruptive from within ~ a highly dishonest activity.<br />Like many of a liberal bent, Ehrenreich seems to have that very convenient ethic that the end justifies the means, and if anyone ~ especially anyone who thinks differently or has &quot;too much&quot; money ~ is hurt in the process, oh well.  I find that my ethic will not permit me to have such an openly contemptuous view of morality, and for that reason if no other, have to reject Ehrenreich's activities and, until such a thing can be done properly, her results.means, and if anyone ~ especially anyone who thinks differently or has &quot;too much&quot; money ~ is hurt in the process, oh well.  I find that my ethic will not permit me to have such an openly contemptuous view of morality, and for that reason if no other, have to reject Ehrenreich's activities and, until such a thing can be done properly, her results.	2003-09-29
US	51200408	R1Q8I0FHB3L2J2	1573831107	140064004	All Hallows' Eve	Books	4	76	78	N	N	Possible, believable picture of Evil	This probably qualifies as the strangest book i've read all year.  I was reminded of Williams by reading C.S. Lewis's letters; i had read one of his books before, \\"Descent into Hell\\" i think, and remembered the strangeness, but this really is amazing.  How many other books do you know in which one of the two main characters is dead, in which the dead and living can communicate almost as easily as we do every day, in which magic is serious and scary?  Mainstream books, that is, not Goosebumps, with an introduction by T.S. Eliot, with the whole thing to be understood as at least feasible if not truth.  This is unusual.  And yet, and yet the whole thing works.  It is the story of two dead women, killed during an air raid on war-torn London, and the choices they make ~ or the choices they made while alive ~ and how they affect the world of the still living.  It is also the story of an evil (American) magus, Simon, who practises (actually, he's very good at it) real black magic.  His desire to rule the world, and the plan he has to use his daughter to gain the power to do so, is in the end defeated by Lester, one of the dead women, her husband, his friend, and the friend's fianc&eacute;e ~ Simon the Clerk's daughter.  The evil is real, overbearing, even, though it is bizarre; one gets the idea that all the Clerk does is feasible, that Williams has experienced evil in his life, that he knows whereof he writes.  The descriptions of the dead, of the City they inhabit (both London and not-London), are also real, persuasive; Williams must have had some foreknowledge, one feels, to write the way he wrote.  Reading him takes quite an investment, of time, of thought, of disbelief suspension; it is, however, well worth the cost:  The payoff is a gripping book, plenty of thought, and a clearer vision of life.  I shall have to read another Williams, but perhaps not too soon.	2003-06-03
US	51200408	R2C9UXRVNSPZYB	0912939001	633679761	History of the Corning-Painted Post area: 200 years in Painted Post country	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good, but not enough	The history is fascinating.  It is terribly interesting to learn so much about where we live, what was here, what it was like, how it looked.  The problem i have with the book (it was obvious that some second thought was coming) is that it is underwritten, if that is the phrase i want.  What i mean is that there is not enough information given about many events mentioned; for example, in relating the difficulty the area had in deciding how to save money by closing schools in the early '80s, the authors indicate that there was acrimony, but no details are given.  I would love to see this book rewritten ~ or another history of the area, which could use this volume as a research basis ~ with more information, because much of it has to be available, and, particularly important, better, redrawn maps.  The maps should be shown from the same perspective each time, perhaps showing differences each twenty years or so; as it is, it is terribly difficult to read and understand where different landmarks, for example the chimneys or the canal dam, were, now that they have disappeared.  Overall, though, this is an enjoyable book; just not detailed enough.	2003-06-03
US	51200408	RMC3Z9TR0UZQJ	0142001325	612392363	Our Lady of the Lost and Found: A Novel of Mary, Faith, and Friendship	Books	3	4	9	N	N	All in all, Why?	A novel, it strongly, ambiguously, affirms before the beginning of the text, of a visit of Mary the mother of Jesus, Theotokos, the BVM in fact, to a Canadian writer.  The visit, a week in duration, causes the writer to research Mary ~ after her departure, to be sure ~ and a number of her appearances through the ages and world.  She gives the stories of many of these ~ maybe a dozen or more ~ scattered through the text; she passes no judgement on the veracity of the observers, nor on the sanity of the believers, though she does allow the sincerity of both, but leaves her reader free to do so.  As a good Baptist, i am compelled (by my own blinders, perhaps, but also in all sincerity) to assume either ill-faith on the part of the visionaries or some form of mental/emotional instability, and a willingness to be duped for the followers.  Still, it is very easy to see why Mary has been so attractive to the devout through the millennia:  She is not (quite) divine, so you're not actually dealing with God; she is Jesus' mother, so she's got an in, as does anyone in her favour; she is unique (no other virginal conceptions), so confers some uniqueness on those to whom she appears; she is powerful, so appeals to the powerless; she is the direct descendent of Aphrodite, Astarte, Venus, Minerva, the Earth Goddess, so is almost universally appealing.  In a way, it's almost surprising that this novel hasn't been written previously.  Maybe it was, just not as well, or by an already known writer.  For this is well written, for all that i dislike the subject matter; the protagonist is quite real and understandable, for the most part, as is her version of Mary.  The plot, such as it is, is easy, simple, and quick ~ much as a week of life can be.  The problem that i find with the book is, What is it's point, purpose?  As an entertainment, it is unsatisfying.  As a documentary, it is incomplete.  As a record of Marian visitations, it is uncritical.  Why is it here?	2003-06-03
US	51200408	R2DIJ8GN73P3QG	051509272X	724762612	The Main	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A fine, fun book	This is perhaps the strongest of Trevanian's works; maybe it does not quite reach \\"Shibumi\\"'s heights of fancy and excitement, but the characterisation is better, the characters themselves are more believable, the plot is less absurd, and the descriptions of the Main and its inhabitants are delightful.  The plot revolves around the policeman of the old school who benevolently watches over The Main, a street in Montreal, with an iron fist and a gentle touch.  LaPointe, a lieutenant in a force which has changed around him, though he has not, is caught up in a murder, the events surrounding which, drag him back and forth through his inner self, as he is forced to confront his mortality, the lack of personal love (though he is generically loved in his rôle as protector of the street) in his life, and a number events of his past.  Even the bit players in this story are real, with histories and personalities which dictate how they act; and the revelation at the end of the plot will be a nice surprise, well concealed, though the clues are fairly given.  Trevanian did a fine job with \\"The Main\\".	2003-06-03
US	51200408	R13GGOR1AYT88A	038071907X	155452964	Nothing but the Truth: A Documentary Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Why Was This A Newbury Honour Book?	A juvenile novel, i think that is the audience Avi generally writes for, of school, grade nine, to be precise, and the way in which one event can be turned and twisted, even by people generally trying to be honest and accurate, until anything but the truth is the result.  The boy, Philip Malloy, who is at the centre of the story, is an arrogant, lazy, self-considered humorous, ninth-grader who wants to do what he wants to do on his own terms and at his own speed.  Since he does not try, he is failing English, and therefore cannot be a part of the track team ~ his true love.  Once he learns that it annoys his homeroom teacher, also his English teacher, he hums along with the Star-Spangled Banner as it is played each morning.  After a couple of days and warnings, Philip is suspended for causing a disturbance in class.  Naturally, he twists the truth, as do his parents, a potential school board member, the press and the administration, all for their own purposes; in the end, Philip becomes a minor celebrity for being suspended for singing the American national anthem.  The one person who is most poorly treated is the teacher, the one person who tried to help the boy, the one person who comes closest to telling the truth the whole time.  The moral, unfortunately, of the tale seems to be that one must tell one's own version of the truth first, loudest, and most continually to be sure of getting what one wants.  A rather sad, annoying ~ or worse ~ meaning for a young adult to be given in an otherwise well written novel.	2003-01-02
US	51200408	RM8NX1OP8ULJE	0670031534	725913928	The Science of Harry Potter: How Magic Really Works	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Nice Concept Doesn't Come Off	Reading this book is much like eating a Hershey's chocolate bar.  It is a wonderful idea ~ what a concept! ~ and entirely delicious in the way it has been worked out.  That is, unless the person eating it happens to be someone who's actually eaten chocolate previously.  In that case, it is a waste of time; a bar of paraffin wax has a more chocolaty texture, and its flavour is not too far behind.  I wanted to like Highfield's book ~ just as i want to like Hershey's bars ~ but i couldn't.  Compared with the masters of general science writing, Highfield is just a little too forced, when writing about Harry Potter, anyway.  He might have done better to have left the Potter references out altogether, and simply write a book of science ~ although he would then have lost his pretext for writing ~ so intrusive do i find them in the text.  There are several times that i found myself truly enjoying the writing, so Highfield can do it; most notably, memorably, when he was talking about the wizard in our heads, and how it can deceive us, and about the origins of and necessity for belief.  If only the whole bar could have had that flavour and consistency.	2003-01-02
US	51200408	R2T3V64432QMC1	0062059262	375750468	A Barrel of Laughs, A Vale of Tears	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Clever, subversive fun	A nice, quick, clever little bit of fun.  The adult book this most reminded me of was The French Lieutenant's Woman, with the intruding, self-conscious author and the characters who will not do what they are told.  There is no closest children's book that comes to mind; a warped Grimm, or a twisted King Arthur perhaps, but nothing else.  Certainly, Feiffer has written a children's masterpiece.  Difficult to describe, hard to tell, it is, perhaps like The Little Prince, the story of a man on a quest to find ~ though he doesn't realise it ~ himself and, in the process, change and mature his character.  Like all the best children's (and adult's) books, there is no preaching, and the reader has no idea, till he's finished, that he has read a wise book.	2002-10-24
US	51200408	RUFFZZ1VEW8ZB	0060289597	390451106	The Sterkarm Handshake	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A rare 5-star wonder.	The Sterkarms ~ Armstrongs ~ are a Sixteenth Century family of border marauders who lie in a no-man's land between England and Scotland.  To shake hands with a Sterkarm would be to invite betrayal and a broken agreement:  Left-handed, for the most part, they can shake and back-stab at the same moment.  Despite their aggression and untrustworthiness, they have entered into some kind of an agreement with elves from Elven-land, by which an elf-woman will live with them and translate their culture and language for the others.  The elves are, in fact, Twentyfirst Century people who have developed a time portal and are planning on using it to exploit other times and places, starting, of course, with the Sixteenth Century border country.  Neither side is in the least pleasant, though both have pleasant people; neither is trustworthy, though both try to make agreements; neither belongs in the others' time, though both make the passage.  The two primary characters, the translator from the Twentyfirst, and the head Sterkarm's son, manage to fall for each other and the main tension of the book is the working out of the results of a cross-time love affair.  In the end, neither is willing to sacrifice for the other, and both end up unhappy.  Though it sounds generally unpleasant, this is in fact an excellent book by a superb story-teller .	2002-10-24
US	51200408	RPTPY3S7VNIJG	157731042X	179204242	Legends: Women Who Have Changed the World Through the Eyes of Great Women Writers	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worth a look for the pictures alone.	Rather ironic, really, that the editor of this fine book is a man ~ unless \\"John Miller\\" is the nom de guerre of some radical female.  Still, editing the book can't have been very hard; Miller had some excellent writers to work with.  The selection of the legends is somewhat more questionable.  Of the fifty, less then twenty are neither from nor intimately associated with the United States; in the effort to remind people of the ability of the other gender to produce legends, the publishers have largely neglected the largest portion of that gender.  And as if that restriction is not enough, the editor has not included anyone for whom a photograph is not available, thus denying any woman from the first 95% of history the opportunity to be a legend.  Funnily enough, these censures aside, i really enjoyed this book.  Quite unlike the usual \\"feminist book\\" (i hate the quotes, but you have to admit they belong there), this is neither strident not shrill, nor even obnoxious.  It is beautifully written, nicely put together, with superb selection of wonderful photographs of handsome people.  Can't ask for much more than that, eh?	2002-10-24
US	51200408	R2D00Z62758FV0	0460874470	604540032	Trilby (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Read it for the atmosphere	The book which put \\"Svengali\\" into the English language.  I had heard of this book long ago, of course, though i can't remember whether it was first from learning about Svengali or finding out that du Maurier was Daphne du Maurier's father.  But i had never read it.  In a way i'm glad i didn't, becuase that has given me the opportunity to read it now, for the first time.  It has taken me a little longer than i might have expected, but was well worth the time.  The story of the tragic Trilby, who cannot sing a note to save her life, and how she is moulded into the singer who takes Europe by storm, by the evil (?)(i'm not sure) musician Svengali, who uses mesmerism of some kind to play her as an instrument.  The story is told from the persepective of three Englishmen who lived in Paris during the time Trilby was an artists' model, before she fell under Svengali's spell.  The three, Taffy, the Laird, and Little Billee, who was her fianc&eacute; at one point, briefly, are artists, of a sort; they love Trilby for herself, and are devastated when she is removed from them by events.  Naturally, they are shocked by her reappearance in the world of Culture.  But they are delighted at the possibility of renewing her acquaintance.<br />I could wish that du Maurier had not been so cute with his French as \\"spoken\\" by the English.  I could wish that there is less French altogether, as it does slow down the reading ~ perhaps one reason \\"Trilby\\" isn't read any more (is it?).  It does generate an atmosphere, though, and you begin to know what Western Europe was like in the middle years of two centuries ago.  This edition, Dover, has over a hundred illustrations by du Maurier, who had made his name as a cartoonist for Punch.  They are lovely, and add immeasurably to the book.	2002-09-23
US	51200408	R20UF2NWRLNAA2	0345302893	56820771	Trouble with Lichen	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Thinking person's science fiction	I remember always thinking of the book with the definite article as the first word in the title; of course, it isn't, and is stronger Wyndham's way.  Just one of those tricks our minds play on us, i suppose.  Now, what can i write about this \\"Trouble\\" without sounding gushing and over-wrought?  Because that is the way i feel, have always felt, about Wyndham; more so, now that i've found and reread some of his books (with more to come soon!).  He was certainly a thinking person's science fiction writer; you can read him if you aren't prepared to think, but you'll miss so much that he has to offer.  He does much of the thinking for you, lays it out in his characters' musings and conversations ~ which may make him a little off-putting to some people, who just want action ~ but requires that you follow along and understand where the characters are going, and why.  Some of it, though, you have to do yourself; you come away from the book with questions, and a feeling that he has answered them for you already.  This is how it would be if an antigerone were discovered in limited supply.  There would be warfare unleashed in society; the clever discoverer would realise that beforehand and plan accordingly.  But not only are you given these answers (and questions, and ideas) you are given a fine story, too.  Wyndham is a story-teller who grabs your attention soon after you open his book, and he doesn't give it back until he's done with it.  Love to read him...	2002-03-25
US	51200408	R1U3V70V04RLX1	0080068472	601567379	Chocky (Athena books)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Wyndham is brilliant, every time he goes out.	Another triumph by the greatest British science-fiction writer (sorry Aldis, you don't compete; & Clarke is a purely international phenomenon)  This is later in his body of work, dating to 1968 (he died in '69), but carries the same authority, the same questions, the same hope for the future as his other works of the second flowering of his talent, that dating from the fifties and sixties, when he wrote as John Wyndham and not Benyon Harris or some other variation from his name.  Chocky is, apparently, a being from another planet, star system, galaxy even, who is able to communicate by mind with a young boy ~ the protagonist's son.  Naturally, the alien culture, science, technology, civilisation are all well in advance of ours; Chocky's task is to be a teacher, to guide us into a more mature use of the Earth and, especially, x-x-x-x-x ~ a power system based on the interstellar radiation ~ which will enable us to develop properly.  Unfortunately, for her task, Chocky becomes emotionally involved where she ought to be detached, and her mission is, this time, a failure.  Wyndham's interest is not so much the story, though that is fascinating, but the ideas behind the story, and, more particularly, the questions raised by the suppositions of the plot.  What would happen if a child heard a voice from outside itself?  Why can mind not be cast across space since, as Chocky points out, it is massless and maybe not subject to the terminal velocity of light?  And, though this is a secondary question, can there be points of contact between alien species?  Wyndham's answer appears to be that at least one such point might be art, a curious suggestion.  © Elsie Wilson, 2002.	2002-03-25
US	51200408	R2Y8AUG9IBOA3M	0399145877	953931509	Hugger Mugger: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Quick, verbal, vaguely intelligent	Hugger Mugger is a horse, that much is clear.  The rest of the facts, as they appear to Spenser and us, at the beginning of this fine book anyway, are not so clear or straightforward.  Someone might be trying to kill Hugger Mugger, or they might not.  There might be some oddities in the family of Spenser's client.  The South might be an unhealthy place for him to practise.  Slowly, very slowly, much becomes clearer, as a murder takes place and muddies the waters.  As usual, at least half the pleasure in a Parker is the quality of writing and dialogue.  Spenser is in fine form, both physically and mentally, and shows off just the right amount to remind us how much we love him ~ and don't think he doesn't know it.  Susan is beautiful as ever, and, though tempted (oh, what it would be to be tempted in such ways) Spenser ramains faithful to her.  Another successful Parker.	2002-01-28
US	51200408	RVJ1JQ7CQTY4R	0195121198	670884283	Sex and the Origins of Death	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Learning as enjoyment	Not what it sounds like ~ some bizarre fetish manual ~ but an investigation by an apparently eminent immunologist and cytologist into the reasons that cells ~ and thus the animals and plants constructed of those cells ~ die.  The sex comes in because at some point in the past, it would appear, in the choice (funny how one frequently speaks of evolutionary processes as animate) to mix the genetic material with the swapping of DNA (sex) implied the necessity of the death of the old DNA in order to pass on the new with a fair chance of survival.  This is a really fascinating exploration, written for the layman, of some modern biology, cytology, molecular biology, thanatology, and even philosophy.  Clark may be a professor, a department Chair in fact, but he can still write engagingly, simply, and pleasingly.  I truly enjoyed learning here.	2002-01-28
US	51200408	R2ME0SJCO9IKN9	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A welcome change for Grisham	Curious feeling...i was reading this book thinking how like a Clancy novel it is, with a cast of thousands, quick jumps of locale, many plot-lines (including one which really has no relation to the main story ~ just like Clancy), when one of the main characters (no single protagonist here), a bought Congressman running for President on the CIA ticket, writes a note of thanks to Clancy for his latest novel.  I wonder if Grisham purposely and consciously moulded this work on Clancy's; that's the sort of thing one should never know, though, about a writer's work.  Anyway, this is rather different from Grisham's usual offerings which focus on the law, usually with a major courtroom scene, and clever plot manipulation.  The plotting is evident here, true; little else, though.  The Brethren of the title are three ex-judges in a federal prison camp; that is about the only contact with the law.  And i don't think that there is even one paragraph actually in a courtroom.  If you go in with an open mind, though, not expecting just another Grisham (which i have been getting a little bored with, i must admit), this is a fine book ~ an excellent departure for him.  I hope that he writes more in a non-Grisham style.	2001-06-08
US	51200408	R35ODG27YBVLDH	0664223133	407749786	Ancient Israel's Faith and History: An Introduction to the Bible in Context	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Surprising antidote to Biblical misinterpretation	Biblical minimalists won't like this book, because Mendenhall does not accept that absence of evidence means evidence of absence (because there is no archaeological evidence of the Exodus, for example, it did not happen); they may enjoy it, however, because they can spend their time picking it to pieces.  Christian fundamentalists (and possibly Jewish ones also, though i know less about them) won't like it either, because Mendenhall does not accept that every word of the Bible is directly from God (the Exodus happened, with over a million people leaving Egypt); they may enjoy it, though, because they can send him rude letters about his failure to support Christianity.<br /> On the other hand, however, those who are seeking Truth in life, those whose view of God is not immutable (though God may be), those who are interested in learning how God revealed himself in history, they will both enjoy and like this book.<br /> Mendenhall passes through the history of ancient Israel from before the Exodus to the time of Jesus, and describes his view of that history as it relates to the religions and histories of the surrounding nations, and to the covenant with YHWH.  Interestingly, he does not equate that covenant with Judaism.  Rather, he calls the obsevance of the covenant &quot;Yahwism&quot; which he contrasts with &quot;Yahwisticism&quot; (the making of YHWH a &quot;patron saint&quot; or divine protector to be appeased by certain rituals) and the Judaism he shows as developing from the latter.  The relationship between Yahwism and Yahwisticism is identical to the relationship between the personal knowledge of Jesus and Church attendance and singing hymns Sunday morning.<br /> In Mendenhall's view, the designation &quot;Hebrew&quot; was not an ethnic tag, but an indication that the person so labelled was an outcast from society.  The originl covenant-makers were 'Apiru (Hebrews) who had escaped from slavery in Egypt and agreed to live together in a certain fashion.  The practice of the covenant they made entailed in them certain ethical behaviour (Yahwism), described in the original Ten Commandments -- which he calls the Ten Commitments.<br /> Gradually, over time, the Hebrews became the society instead of the outcasts, and it became more acceptable over the land, in the towns as well as the 'Apiru villages and groupings, to join the covenant.  As more and more people worshiped YHWH, though, the worship form became more important, the ethics less important, and YHWH and his requirements started to be indistinguishable from the gods of the surrounding peoples.  In the same way, to relate this to something we may understand more intimately, Jesus, the Father, Mary, and Christian celebrations became much more like Apollo, Jupiter, Athene, and pagan festivals once Christianity became the legal religion of the Roman Empire.  This formalised religion is what Mendenhall calls Yahwisticism.  Quite clearly, as Mendenhall explains it, Yahwisiticsm developed as a response to (and adaptation of) the religions of the surrounding nations, in order to suit the political leaders' desire for power, which was the very opposite of the essence of Yahwism.  The Hebrews misunderstood and re-interpreted their past, and started to view YHWH as another Baal ~ a local god of power, to be worshipped in specific ways and places.  Yahwism thus lost in the battle with the Canaanite religions, though we usually view the Bible as the record of the Israelites's successful religion.<br /> The prophets who are reported all through the Jewish scriptures were those who understood the nature of the original covenant, and called the people back to their original Yahwism.  Mendenhall sees Jesus as one, perhaps the last, in that line of such prophets, and understands early Christianity to have been a return to the historical line of Yahwism, rather than a radical departure from everything revealed in the Old Testament.  Thus, and this is the endpoint of the book, Christianity and Christians ought to be paying closer attention to the Old Testament and the covenant contained therein, as they are their root, origin, and history.<br /> The book is well written; derived from talks he gave over a number of years, it still bears the marks of its origin in a simple, flowing style.  Quite differently from many books of the genre i have read, the work is readily accessible to the person with little background knowledge. The fourteen-page glossary explains in detail many terms lay readers may find questionable; the bibliography points the reader in many directions to discover more information, should he so incline.<br /> All in all, other than for the two groups mentioned above, an excellent read, and highly recommended.ty and Christians ought to be paying closer attention to the Old Testament and the covenant contained therein, as they are their root, origin, and history.<br /> The book is well written; derived from talks he gave over a number of years, it still bears the marks of its origin in a simple, flowing style.  Quite differently from many books of the genre i have read, the work is readily accessible to the person with little background knowledge. The fourteen-page glossary explains in detail many terms lay readers may find questionable; the bibliography points the reader in many directions to discover more information, should he so incline.<br /> All in all, other than for the two groups mentioned above, an excellent read, and highly recommended.	2001-05-31
US	51200408	RWBFLPGVUWUCZ	0446405329	830671152	An Excellent Mystery: The Eleventh Chronicle of Brother Cadfael (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Peters plays fair	This is the first Brother Cadfael mystery i've read.  It was, perhaps, not the most fortuitous choice i could have made; certainly it was rather different from my expectation.  Part of the difference can, of course, be explained by the fact that i have seen some four or five of the adaptations starring Derek Jacobi, so despite my best efforts i interpreted everything i read through that filter, seeing the characters in my mind according to their development in the television shows.  The murder/mystery is well plotted out, though simple not quite simplistic, and nicely both hidden and revealed.  I can point to the exact paragraph, sentence even, i was reading when i suddenly knew ~ not through anything revealed in that paragraph ~ the solution; the rest was mere reading to prove myself correct and see how Peters would handle the results of the revelation.  Though this was not what i expected, i shall read another Cadfael book, just to learn a little more about him, and to see if i can't erase Jacobi's excellent interpretation from my mind.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	R34WJMSF120OMB	0451527593	870497727	Two Years Before the Mast (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Carry me back to the olden days...	Another classic called so with reason.  Surprisingly, Dana was a lawyer; the surprise is because his prose is as clear and simple as can be.  Every word is in place, nothing rings false or more complex than it need, as he tells the story of something over two years he spent, after Harvard, on a hide ship going from Boston to California and back.  The majority of the time was spent up and down the coast of California, gathering some forty thousand hides ~ cattle, as i understand it ~ for the leather trade back in New England.  As Dana tells this part of his tale one begins to feel the boredom he felt, the drag of doing the same thing, day after day after day; but also, the excitement of a liberty day, the pleasure of the break in routine when the hides are processed and the ship has not returned with more.  The more exciting parrt of the story is, naturally, the descriptions of sailing, around the Horn, through storms, furling, reefing, climbing riggings, standing on yardarms, and all the duties a sail sailor had.  In this day of fuel oil, steam, and nuclear power it would be nice to see a publisher re-issue this book with a diagram of a fully rigged sailing ship and a glossary that explains the difference between a reef and a double reef, and just what an hermaphrodite brig is.  There are those who still know, but they are specialists nowadays; that information used to be as common knowledge as the difference between a bus and a truck is now.  Still, a wonderful experience is hidden between the covers of this book.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	RA5AH43C24YS9	0786709332	225466557	The Celtic Empire: The First Millennium of Celtic History, 1000BC - AD51	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Learn history as you enjoy reading	Two things i have learned from reading this book:  The Celts were further spread (in time as well as distance) than i had ever known ~ and i knew they were in both Galatia and Gaul; and the Romans were consistently the most inhumane and brutal civilised people the world has known ~ outdone perhaps by the Nazis in the total quantity killed, but far outdoing them (by hundreds of years) in length of time and (by thousands of officials) in men prepared to inflict pain as a matter of state policy.  To take the second point first, it is depressing to read how many Celts over the centuries were killed, tortured, sold into slavery by the invading Roman army; and if it happened to the Celts, obviously there were other peoples treated in the same way, all in the name of &quot;The Republic&quot;.  Turning to the first point, i had known that the Celts and the Gauls were the same people, and i was aware that they were found from the interior of Asia Minor to the westernmost fringe of Europe; i did not know where their homeland was ~ Ellis says central Europe, what would now be Switzerland, Austria, Eastern France, Southern Germany ~ nor did i know that they spread into Iberia, settled as thoroughlly as they did in the Po valley, or travelled as far into Scythia as they did.  I was fascinated to learn that the Celtic language had such an effect on modern European languages; English, it is obvious, but French, other Romance languages through the Latin, even some Greek was influenced by the Gauls.  Overall, this is a very well written history of one of the true founding peoples of Europe.  The sole serious complaint i found myself making ~ several times ~ was the lack of maps:  There is one, rather ill-defined, which serves as the endpapers; about six more were needed:  The spread of the Celts, Italy and the Po Valley, Gaul and North-Central Europe, Illyria, Thrace and Asia Minor, the British Isles, and the Final Distribution of Celtic Influence.  Barring this lack, The Celtic Empire tells a poorly known tale wonderfully.ire tells a poorly known tale wonderfully.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	R2TVGQ9U5R94OT	0553212699	134276149	The Return of the Native (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quiet, genius at work.	I laughed out loud as i read the first sentence:  I had forgotten until i read it that it is quoted by Monty Python in their hilarious &quot;Novel-Writing&quot; sketch.  But that might well be the only time i laughed during the book; this is not a humorous book but rather, like &quot;Tess of the D'Urbervilles&quot; ~ though less explicitly developed ~ the story of people tossed about by fate, chance, the gods, events, and the results are not pretty.  Hardy writes beautifully, to be sure; not a phrase is misplaced in driving towards the effect of horror as good people are driven to extremity by events out of their control.  It is hard to say that there is a hero in the book, unless perhaps the heath in Wessex on which all the action takes place.  Certainly none of the main characters are completely admirable ~ though none is despicable either ~ in their actions and interactions.  I have had a history of struggling with Hardy:  Though i have read him before it has always felt like a chore (James is another whose novels give me that feeling); here i had no such difficulty, rather i raced (insofar as is possible) through it, hurrying toward the end, caring about each of the characters, and curious about the plot.  Now my feeling is one of envy for a master of the language, one who is quoted in the OED as the authority for certain words' usage; envy, and admiration for the wonderful way he was able to put words together to make a place he obviously loved come so alive for another.  I'd love to go to &quot;Egdon Heath&quot; sometime, to see it as it &quot;embrowned itself moment by moment....&quot;  It might even raise a smile and shiver of horror both in me.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	R1KJC9VEB8CXIB	1877741019	169330482	Zen In The Art Of Writing	Books	2	14	30	N	N	I am always guilty when it comes to Bradbury	To be perfectly honest, Bradbury has never been one of my favourite authors; i have always felt i ought to like him a whole lot better than i do, but turning that feeling into reality is not always the result of reading another of his books.  This has once again proven to be the case.  I thought that if i perhaps read some of his non-fiction i might find more to enjoy, particularly considering the subject matter.  I hoped i would find a kindred ~ to a point ~ spirit, one with whom i could enjoy an anecdote or a reminisence.  No.  No, instead i found a self-righteous sort, who brags of having written a thousand words a day since he was in the womb ~ which, incidentally, he remembers.  I found a man who invokes a kind of mysticism in the writing process:  &quot;There is only one type of story in the world.  Your story.  If you write your story it could possibly sell to any magazine.&quot;  I found the same writer i've always known, whose writing both draws me and repells me ~ but the latter is still, i'm sorry, stronger.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	R3DI0GT6VFDTZT	0380974983	308629152	Who Owns Death? Capital Punishment, the American Conscience, and the End of the Death Penalty	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Interesting rhetoric; but ineffective in the end	A very interesting subject.  As the sub-title makes plain, the authors' goal is the abolition of capital punishment, or at least a moratorium on it.  To that end they make an examination of they system of justice which permits the executions of criminals, bringing up every sordid fact and opinion that they can find to marshal on their side.  The argument i have with the book is not so much the content ~ after all, i am in two minds about capital punishment ~ but the methods the authors use to argue against it.  They write deceptively, as though they themselves believe their arguments are not strong enough and must be bolstered any way they can.  For example, a very common habit they have is to make throwaway lines, little tag comments at the end of a paragraph, giving their opinion of someone they've just quoted, as though that opinion were fact, not mere pop psychology or deliberately inflammatory; a great example occurs when. during the course of a discussion of methods of execution, the authors suggest, as the last line of a paragraph, where it really has no link to the rest of the paragraph, that a botched execution could be &quot;God's way of saying that killing a person should be difficult to do.&quot;  A second deception is the selective use of facts, without giving the reader any context; for example, suggesting though never actually stating, that the Supreme Court was wrong to allow public opinion to play any rôle in deciding the legality of capital punishment:  In actual fact, naturally, the Court was correct to use polls, since part of what they had to determine was whether the standards of society had changed ~ the very thing the polls measured.  The book is full of quirks like this, designed to sway the mind through emotion. I  would find it interesting to read a version of this book not put together by blind abolitionists, people who could take an unbiased view; the end result of such a version would have more meaning.  Overall, not a bad book, just not as good as could have been.t as good as could have been.	2001-05-24
US	51200408	R2BM6CDAR113HL	0671000659	706219423	Bad Memory	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Truly a novel of suspense	The subtitle ~ &quot;a novel of suspense&quot; ~ says it all; the suspense here was excellent; actually, i had to stop reading a couple of times close to the end to catch my breath, and that doesn't often happen to me.  The story of a blackmail attempt at a large computer manufacturing company, this book quickly leads you to wonder just how accurate it is, how likely such blackmailing is to happen ~ where has it happened? ~ and how well protected against such disasters are most companies, computer operations or not.  Franklet seems to know computers and operating systems; to my ear nothing rang untrue, which is important for the flow of a complex and specialist plot like this one.  Not only did he get his ducks in a row though (has he done this himself?), but he can draw characters in a believable way, suggesting an ability to continue his success here with more works, though perhaps with a different cast and plot.  I shall watch for his name again, see if he can repeat.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	RDJSVNS97BBHJ	0449221164	423675326	In the Frame	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Learn about Art from Francis	Another Francis:  A quick, exciting read, with characters it is fun to envy, but probably not fun to be in real life, the right number of plot twists and turns, and a shocking set-up.  The hero, called Charles Neil Todd here, though really the same character as in other Francises, walks in on his cousin just after the latter has called the police to a burglary and then discovered his wife battered to death.  In order to rescue him from the clutches of the police, who consider him a suspect, Todd tracks a curious coincidence in his cousin's recent past.  Led to Australia, to the company of a welcoming old friend ~ and his not so welcoming, new wife ~ Todd investigates and, after some beatings and other frights, resolves the coincidences, solving the burglary and, probably, the murder.  The racing is only incidentally important ~ much action occurs on a racecourse, around a big race, but could be anywhere ~ the main importance is that Todd and Jik, his friend, are painters ~ Todd of horses, mainly, Jik of living, lasting abstracts ~ which aids them in the investigation of art fraud, galleries, copies and copiers.  Just for the few hours a Francis takes to read, but completely for those hours, i am carried away into another world, other surroundings.  And, as always with Francis, i come away wanting to know more about his particular interest ~ here the painting of Todd and Jik, but also Australia itself; can it be as fascinating as Francis paints it?	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R1HFWR1WEAV6L4	0232515743	275973077	Saint of Auschwitz: Story of Maksymilian Kolbe	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Adulation, not biography	I find it difficult to separate this book in my mind from the feelings i have about the things done to people after they die by the Church of Rome.  The problem is exacerbated because this really is not a true biography but, as the subtitle says, a &quot;Story&quot; ~ told for young people, or those with an interest in a new (at publication time) &quot;saint&quot;.  Thus it is hard to offer a criticism without sounding petty or self-righteously opinionated.  I remember when Kolbe was beatified, i read a Reader's Digest article telling the story of his martyrdom; i have a vague memory of his canonisation too ~ inevitable once Wojtyla became John Paul II ~ but i had no sense of the man.  I still don't.  This book is written in such an adulatory fashion, whether or not it was designed to coincide with the canonisation, that it is hard to grasp any meaning to Kolbe's life or death.  There is very little in the way of depth, interpretation, meaning, to the biography; all is the recounting of the surface facts, largely how many obstacles were overcome by the intervention of the &quot;Immaculate&quot; (Mary), with whom Kolbe had an appallingly close relationship, to the detriment, despite anything Dewar shrilly insists to the contrary, of his relationship with Jesus Christ.  The facts of Kolbe's life and death are amazing; but there is no explanation, either of how they came to be nor what they mean, here.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R1BNCMZTBX8FMA	038532653X	460617729	Skellig (Printz Honor)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Children's Literature, in the best possible sense	What a fascinating book.  Answers the question, &quot;What would happen if Blake were growing up today seeing his visions?&quot;  The Blake figure here is split between two:  The narrator, Michael, a regular boy with assorted family problems, and his new neighbour, a home educated girl who already is visionary, yet has to be shown Skellig by Michael.  The question is posed but never answered fully, what or who Skellig is.  He just is, and it is up to us to accept his presence, as do Michael and Mina.  Is he an Archeopteryx ~ a hint of the future of man? an angel? an hallucination?  I dare say that how the reader answers says more about the reader than about what Almond wrote.  Skillfully written; real children, with real feelings and reactions (i especially like Mina's superiority about not going to school); just the right amount of coincidence (studying evolution at school prepares the kids for the Archeopteryx idea); good suspense, particularly about Michael's family situation; and a clever and very unusual plot.  No wonder twelve-year-old Chenowyth loved loved loved loved it.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R2VX8G4XJN2DFO	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	4	11	23	N	N	Challenging thesis &amp; reading	Phew, quite the challenge here, both to faith and intellect.  Take the latter first:  Finkelstein and Silberman are not brilliant writers; i found quite a bit of repetition in the text, which was itself rather stilted at times.  One must take into account, of course, their purpose, which is to be as clear as they can about their thesis ~ that most of the history in the Bible is, as far as the evidence of archæology is concerned, made up to suit the purposes of the priests and rulers of Judah in the late Seventh Century BCE ~ especially since it is such a challenge to established interpretations of the evidence, and to faith.  The challenge to faith.  Finkelstein and Silberman have issued a challenge to the understandings of Judaism and Christianity which hold the scriptures to be of God, and therefore truth (if not inerrant Truth); their interpretation of the archæological history of Palestine is that pretty much nothing written about the times before Josiah (c.639-609 BCE) can be taken to be true.  This would include the patriarchs, the Exodus, the conquest of Canaan, the united monarchy, as well as the divided kingdoms, the origins of the Israelites, and the foundations of monotheism.  What is one to think?  I am certainly in no position to make a judgement for or against this interpretation; i can merely restate in my mind my belief that God is in the history of Israel, in the details as well as the broad strokes, and wait for a more learned rebuttal ~ which i may or may not either see or understand, though i hope i do both.  I must simply look at the readability, and report that to a degree it fails.  Because this book will be reacted to with almost reflex rejection, in preparation for that rejection some points are made as strongly as they can.  The result is that certain horses (Meddigo, e.g.) are beaten to, if not past the point of death.  One is tempted to think that the structure of the hypothesis is weak, since so few (repeated) points hold it up.  It makes for annoying reading, to be sure.s for annoying reading, to be sure.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	RCF0OJPFDDF7Y	0631214437	468099662	The Huns	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Apparently a classic in the field	A text, a classic, a most scholarly work; i can hardly pass just judgement upon this book, the less so since i read it really to get an introduction to the Huns, a people of whom i knew next to nothing.  Interestingly, it turns out, there is a reason for my ignorance:  Not a lot is known, so not a lot could have been taught to me.  This text is, according to the Afterword by Peter Heather, who prepared this edition for publication (Thompson originally wrote over fifty years ago), &quot;a, or arguably, the central text shaping argument in the field&quot;; it certainly has all the trappings of a major, authoritative, well prepared opus ~ from copious, referential notes to seven (!) appendices.  Let my awe inform you:  This is not the work i had hoped for (an introduction to the Huns), but a full-fledged scholar's treatise.  Interesting, but on the level of Ibsen (in Norwegian) instead of the expected Wilde.  All my surprise and expectations aside, this was an enjoyable read, because Thompson is a good writer.  Without a doubt he knows his subject, backwards, forwards, every-other-wards, and more than knows it, he loves it.  The Huns have a fascination for him which he is blessed with the ability to pass on to his readers.  Normally at this point in the review i would mention anticipating continuing to learn; this time, of course, i have nowhere else to turn.  What i do anticipate is reading more about and learning more of the Eastern Empire of the Fifth Century ~ something i currently know next to nothing about.  Thompson has whetted my appetite for that knowledge.  Also, of course, i would like to read others in the series, The Peoples of Europe, that Heather revised this work for; i should like to read The Picts, The Scots, The Basques, The Franks ~ all of them, in fact.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R3EPAU2QP520YM	0312001185	874904507	Death of a Cad (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Out of print?  How curious; should be back.	First Beaton i've ever read.  A good introduction; certainly i shall read some more of the Hamish Macbeth series.  The characters are mostly well done, more especially those to the forefront of the picture ~ Macbeth, the local copper, Priscilla Halburton-Smythe, daughter of the local landowners, Henry, her fianc&eacute;, and Captain Peter Bartlett, the cad whose death causes the mystery.  Oddly, i felt the level of writing was high all the way through, until the last half dozen pages, as Macbeth revealed the solution to the mystery.  At that point, or perhaps as the murderer stopped denying it and suddenly gloated in the denoument, the quality fell precipitously.  Still, six out of two hundred pages isn't a bad per centage of  lower quality.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R3MQ0KXK6NQX62	0060955449	2759931	Profiles in Courage (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Quite quick, but interesting, not flashy	The stories of eight men, Senators, whom Kennedy believes showed extraordinary courage in their behaviour at one moment or another in their careers.  The one who has always stuck with me over the years since i read this book before is Edmund G. Ross, the man whose uncertain vote was not converted to a vote for the impeachment of Andrew Johnson.  Though he was completely opposed to Johnson and his policy of reconciliation with the South, though he had lead the drive to recall the Senator he replaced, because his predecessor was not harsh enough, though he had every opportunity to defeat Johnson by voting to remove him from office, Ross was, through his integrity, determined to act as an impartial judge in the matter and, convinced that the case had not been proven, he voted for Johnson, providing the one uncertain vote preventing a two-thirds majority.  Not one in a hundred, nowadays, has ever heard of him, let alone remembered his name, but Ross acted neither for the present nor posterity, but for his own character and honour.  All the others Kennedy wrote of did the same; some in a cause we would consider right, some not, but all concerned that their yea be yea and their nay, nay.  Ironies abound here, as in all aspects of Kennedy's life; for as much as he had to do with the production of this Pulitzer Prize-winning book, Kennedy could be proud.	2001-04-11
US	51200408	RNEQSRANRD172	0312266502	458535105	Spider's Web	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Why bother?  Only if you've read all the other Christies	Like &quot;Black Coffee&quot; an adaptation of an Agatha Christie play.  Also like &quot;Black Coffee&quot; it is interesting as a relic, not really as a novel in its own right.  Osborne has, with the desire to be true to Christie, taken her script, used the dialogue and stage directions to tell the story, with very little addition of imagination.  Curiously, perhaps fortunately, the telling improves during the last third of the book; less stilted, more humourous, more real.  The plot itself is pure Christie, as are the characters; they have just the right quirks that her creations are capable of.  One problem, though, and this is perhaps inherent with the translation from stage to paper, is that in the biggest action of the story ~ the hiding of the dead body ~ the motivation of the three men is not clear; why do they agree to do what Clarissa wants?  On stage the advantage is that the action moves more quickly, the audience has less time to wonder such questions, and there is a greater suspension of disbelief than can be assumed in a novel.  The action, therefore, which probably makes perfect sense on the stage is questionable here, and since that action is a, if not the, hinge of the plot, a weakness results.  This raises the question, Should plays be translated in this fashion?  Answer:  Probably not; except that this does make an additional way new readers can be introduced to Christie.  Of course, that raises the question, With more than eighty books available, who still needs an introduction?	2001-04-11
US	51200408	R27M31BARKJ1JI	0785758968	340762456	Sphere	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Another Crichton; worth your time.	Once again the Admirable Crichton produces a scientific thriller (not that that is all he can write ~ see &quot;The Great Train Robbery&quot; for something completely different).  Likable characters, put into a stressful situation not of their own causing, let's see what happens.  This time the cause is a vehicle, later shown to be carrying a sphere of alien manufacture from the other side of a black hole.  The sphere has some interesting effects, including, apparently, an alien entity waiting to be released.  Oh, and all this is at the bottom of the ocean ~ a thousand feet down in the Pacific, to be exact ~ not the ideal location for a stressful situation to deteriorate.  As just about always with Crichton, he has produced a highly readable, well plotted novel.  The characters are distinct enough that we can tell them apart, and they are not so sympathetic that we mourn as they die.  There are, as usual, a few questionable moments, both in the plotting ~ are we seriously to believe that our fiftythree year old protagonist can make his way, without a suit, out of one hatch, around the living environment, back in through another, on one breath of air, in the dark and cold (a thousand feet under, don't forget) ~ and in the science ~ how is the huge vehicle (a half mile long) expected to have travelled through a black hole without tidal forces tearing it apart?  For that matter, how can the scientists be certain of the ship's origin?  Without trying to give too much away, the only source of that information is a two digit figure which is automatically extrapolated into a precise year.  Foolishness ~ hasn't Crichton noticed that &quot;43&quot; could mean &quot;1243&quot;, &quot;1943&quot;, &quot;2043&quot;, or &quot;3043&quot;?  But let me not be argumentative (there are a few other points i could raise); the book is strong, readable, complete ~ for what it is.  Just don't rely on Crichton for a scientific education.	2001-03-09
US	51200408	R2YGPOEBFPTVNZ	0312033095	818145314	The First 20 Years of Monty Python	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Introduction, but no more than that.	I admit, thisbook is now outdated, having been updated by the annoyingly quotated Kim &quot;Howard&quot; Johnson.  This is the edition i read, though, so i had better stick with it.  Perhaps (somehow i doubt it) the flaws have been corrected in the new edition.<br />A compilation book, descriptions of each of the shows and movies ~ with brief information about the records (CDs now, i suppose), books, and videotapes ~ snippets from conversations with each of the Pythons, brief biographies of the six, and a fair number of pictures (some of rather poor quality), both from the series and Johnson's private collection.  Johnson himself is, apparently, some kind of Python insider, though we never really find out how (any more than we find out why he has an extra name in quotes [i suspect an inside joke ~ the most annoying kind]), who has for years had access to the six manic writer-actors, and used it to produce this retrospective.  It is not as complete as &quot;All The Words,&quot; which essentially gives the scripts as broadcast, though it does give more information about Gilliam's animations.  Johnson makes a few, curious mistakes ~ he thinks one takes &quot;A&quot; levels at 14 not 18 years old, he misquotes from some of the sketches, going so far as to miss the joke when he screws up Professor Gumby's explanation of why the Battle of Trafalgar was fought in Yorkshire ~ which leads me to wonder about the accuracy of his reported conversations and recollections.  Overall, this is a nice collection of Python-obilia, but by no means an essential addition to the list of works about them ~ not to be considered part of the canon.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R3LGOK95AKWZKH	0688412769	720823544	Czars and Czarinas of Russia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	For beginners only ~ but good for them	I confess that i knew little of the assorted rulers of Russia ~ other than Peter the Great, of whom i had read a biography, and Nicholas II who everyone knows was murdered by the Bolsheviks ~ except perhaps their names and a vague recollection of when they ruled.  This book attempts to bring each of them to life for the reader.  In some measure it has succeeded.  Although i still will not know instantly the difference between, say, Peter II and Nicholas I, i do have a far better idea of who the Romanovs were, how they were related, how much they were not Russians (like the British royal family of the period, the seemed to become more and more German), and the troubles they faced with varying degrees of unsuccess.  I had hoped for a little more detail on, for example, origins of the families, the Russians, the prior Grand Dukes and Czars; this is, though, a beginners' book, an introduction, and, as such, it fulfills its mandate quite nicely.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R1L9TIHA2YV1HL	1567310133	834867328	The Life of Greece (The Story of Civilization, Vol. 2)	Books	5	1	9	N	N	Part of your education to read it.	The problem is, i feel completely inadequate to write anything about this work; it has so much history to it (sorry about the pun), so much approval for the series, so much scholarship, that i cannot truly make a judgement of its value.  On the other hand, in each of these reviews i try merely to give my own response to the books i read; that i am competent to do.  So, my response is...?  I like the book (there's a tentative quality to my voice, can you catch it?), for the most part.  I'm not even sure i can put my finger on anything specifically that i question; perhaps it is simply the history of the book ~ i ought to like it, so much, so many times have i read about it, seen it held up as a classic.  Maybe i just don't like having something pushed down my throat ~ in which case the question arises:  Why did i bother to read it?  A more interesting question is, Will i, now or later, find another of Durant's series and read that?  I think so, yes; later.  So, from that perspective, i must have enjoyed &quot;Greece&quot;.  Some things i might have enjoyed a little more (better reproductions of more artworks), but overall, yes, i did enjoy it.  I am fascinated ~ have been for years ~ with the origins of peoples, especially those of the eastern Mediterranean; Durant has some excellent information there ~ of course, it is seventy years old; i wonder what scholarship has changed since then?  At the very least, i know, Linear B has been deciphered, so that's a new line of information to follow.  Perhaps i shall find another, more recent, book i can pursue it in; another measure of success for &quot;Greece&quot;!  In the end, then, the tentative tone must leave my voice as i reiterate, i enjoyed reading Durant.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R4AYNLB32JEU7	0848821270	830837490	Best of Fritz Leiber	Books	3	9	26	N	N	Fantasy &amp; Scifi short stories	To be entirely honest, i've not read all of these stories before, though a surprising number of them were curiously familiar to me; i have read more Leiber, apparently, than i had thought.  So, having read and been reminded, do i enjoy Leiber? and why?  For the most part, i think the answer must be a qualified &quot;yes, i do&quot;; there are exceptions, though.  He is more fantasy than straight science fiction; the latter is what i prefer, generally.  Specifics:  There is a charming little story here written from the perspective of a cat (what is it about cats that forces people like Leiber or Heinlein to inflict them on normal society?); horrible subject, but beautifully handled.  Several stories here that show several scenarios of the future (from the 'Fifties) after the Third World War; none of them attractive.  There are a couple of tales which bother me, because they really don't seem to have a plot ~ a certain weakness for fiction! ~ and therefore do not carry my attention at all.  &quot;The Good New Days&quot; is one of these; &quot;The Foxholes of Mars&quot; is another.  No pleasure.  But, i hasten to add, stories such as &quot;Poor Superman&quot; or &quot;The Ship Sails at Midnight&quot; or &quot;Sanity&quot; or &quot;The Man Who Never Grew Young&quot; bring a lovely amount of pleasure.  Overall, fun book.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	ROQPK7140OMEG	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Irving entertains, that's all	A great entertainment.  But is it a great novel?  I really don't think so; now, can i explore and explain the difference?  In &quot;Owen Meany&quot; Irving created a great plot and compelling characters who drag the reader along with them as they live into the future.  Here, the plot is strong, though not as forceful as &quot;Owen Meany&quot;, but the characters, i'm afraid, lack something.  The most compelling character in the book is the one who is least in it:  Marion, the wife who seduces the young Eddie O'Hare and then disappears for the next four hundred and twentysix pages.  The heroine, Ruth, Marion's daughter, a successful writer, is attractive, well explained (the omniscient author), but not as strong a person as the missing Marion.  Her friend Hannah, the sexual animal, is understandable (we know her motivations), but not attractive.  Eddie is sympathetic, but also pathetic.  I cannot say i dislike the book, because i enjoyed it; i do find Irving a distracting writer sometimes, though ~ i feel as though he is writing a &quot;French Lieutenant's Woman&quot; but doesn't have the same ability as (not less, just different from) Fowles.  Perhaps i am actually expecting too much; to be a great entertainment should maybe be enough for a book; and i'm not sure that anything could have changed this into a great novel as well, in my opnion.  At any rate, i shall continue to read Irving, and expect to enjoy his books.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R31LX7ICMDVMYP	0789450739	686202907	To the Best of My Ability: The American Presidents	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Read it for style as well as substance; both are there.	A fascinating book.  Divided into two parts, this is the most comprehensive anecdotal history of the Presidents i've ever seen ~ or could imagine.  The first part tells the story of each president with a nice amount of detail, in four or five pages.  There is less information than, say, a World Book Encyclopaedia article, but it is far better organised, and delightfully readable in every case (there isn't a poorly written article in the bunch).  The second part of the book is a very brief (a half dozen paragraphs) explanation of each of the quadrennial elections, followed by the text of the President's inaugural speech.  I will confess, i have not read all of these speeches; i have read all of some, however, and some of many ~ enough to get a feel for the way the men spoke, and for the changing tastes in speeches over the past two centuries.  If for no other reason than this latter point, the inaugural speeches ought to be required reading for students.  To our ears a speech such as Washington's or the first Adams's is long, tedious, overly convoluted and, perhaps, irresponsibly difficult to follow.  On the other hand, those of, for example, Clinton or Reagan are, by contrast, simple, if not simplistic, and not especially effective as oratory.  The meat of the book, though, is definitely the fortyone essays by thirtytwo historians.  I who, though not American, thought i had, through constant and varied reading, gained a fair amount of knowledge about the country's history, have learned an immense amount.  And so i repeat, a fascinating book.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R576WU3JY6L2A	0446359750	30949234	Devices and Desires (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #8)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sub-plots a little distracting, but more Jamesian excellence	A different sort of mystery (and how often one can write that for a James!) in that the murderer one thinks is going to be the main problem suddenly isn't, and the real solution to the major crime is hidden in layers  that are opened only by the omniscient author to the reader; none of her characters, not even Dalgliesh, knows all that we do by the end of the book.  Dalgliesh is not actually the investigating officer in any of the mysteries here; truth be told he's more of a suspect ~ certainly a witness ~ in the major crime.  Visiting his aunt's cottage, his since her death, in Norfolk, he becomes imbroiled in a mystery that could be part of the repetoire of a serial killer he has a slight interest in.  The characters range around the headland which contains his cottage and mill, a nuclear power station, and several other habitations.  Everyone has something to hide, including Dalgliesh and the investigating officer Rickards; some are more successful at concealment.  The only thing i disliked about the plot was the sudden intrusion of MI5 in the last pages.  Its appearance has something of the nature of a deus ex machina, and i am not too sure that the precense of the two men adds anything other than a mild explanation; nothing necessary, in other words.  It reminds me of another James where the end comes only in the written confession of the murderer; there, as i recall, i did not object so strongly.  The flurry of &quot;fake&quot; endings leads one to wonder if perhaps James doesn't write herself into a corner, concetrating so hard on the characters and their actions, that she loses track of the plot and cannot find a way out?  The blessing is that those characters really do carry her books; i am not overly upset over a minor plot flaw.	2001-03-02
US	51200408	R2XBSX41AHDS94	0451199863	931136086	A Pocket Full of Rye (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A nice afternoon's outing	The hard thing about reading a Christie for something other than the first time is that you can't tell whether you worked it out before the end through extra cleverness (the preference), or simply though an unknown working of memory (sadly, the probably truth).  Nevertheless, let the record show that i did, on this occassion at least, outthink the Queen, and come to the solution chapters before she revealed it.  The characters are a good mixture, not all of them likeable ~ Percival, in fact, is quite obnoxious; i would have been happy to see him cast as murderer ~ and several with secondary motivations that are revealed at the right time.  The lead policemant, Inspector Neele, is one of the more attractive creations Chirstie has made ~ much better than Dermott Craddock, for example ~ though, naturally, subservient to and not fully understanding the value of Miss Marple.  Another nice touch in &quot;Rye&quot; is that Miss Marple doesn't appear until well into the story; nor is too much made of her, as we see far more of Neele than we do her.  All in all, if not the most difficult puzzle Christie's ever set, a satisfying book for an afternoon's reading.	2001-01-30
US	51200408	R28H6UVRU7UGC9	0393309347	848024181	The Man Who Counted: A Collection of Mathematical Adventures	Books	3	32	64	N	N	Nice Concept; Doesn't Pan Out	An interesting little collection of stories and puzzles, alleged to be told by the travelling companion of the Man Who Counted, one Beremiz Samir.  Many of the puzzles have been set in other circumstances, other fables.  The interest here, such as it is, is the weaving together of the whole tale in the city of Baghdad in the thirteenth century.  The trappings of Islam are heavy, not always necessary, and occasionally a positive intrusion.  Samir seems to go through life ~ at least that part of it reported to us ~ moving from one mathematical challenge to another, and triumphing over all.  One sympathises with the posers of the puzzles; it would be a pleasure at times to see him tripped.  If one can fight through the extraneous material of the tale, the Islamic tapestries which cover all, the mathematical puzzles themselves are interesting.  It's quite a job, though, to dig them out.	2001-01-30
US	51200408	R10PQCWW9WUGUV	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Leonard's Dynamite is Explosive Indeed!	Another of Leonard's conglomerations of bizarre characters ~ actually, most of them you can relate to ~ with strange motivations ~ some of them make sense ~ quite a bit of coincidence, and a good dash of no common sense at all.  &quot;Common sense&quot; in the non-criminal world; maybe what these characters do is everyday behaviour for the baddies of this life.  Your average person, though, let alone the average character in a book, is not prepared to blow someone up to make under a million dollars; does not do nothing when he discovers a bomb in his boss's car; does not pick up his Glock and continue detecting, after a fashion, after being suspended from the Police Department.  Good thing Leonard's characters do, though, because it makes for one heck of a good read.  You cannot entirely tell all of the time exactly who the good guys are; most of the time, though, they seem to be Chris Manikowski ~ the suspended cop ~ and Greta Jones, a rape victim.  The bad guys, the bombers, ex-Sixties radicals back in circulation, do not end up with what they want; generally the good guys do.  But from beginning to end motivations, actions, effects, and results change frequently.  Fun book, again.	2001-01-24
US	51200408	R3BCL7AVKPR5JA	0913948098	67628138	Ten Who Dared	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good high school level (maybe) information.	The book of the series ~ and that implies a certain, simplified, level of writing, and simplistic diagrams ~ on eleven (two went together) explorers.  In fact, the very poor maps are probably the worst feature in this book; given the subject matter, and the importance of maps to them, you would think it might be possible to retrace their journeys with more accurace, to show us in greater detail where they actually went; quite the contrary, we are given a continent-sized map for the smallest trip.  Other than the maps, though, i really enjoyed this book.  The information was, as far as i bothered to think about it, accurate.  The writing was generally a pleasure to read.  The selection of explorers was nicely done.  The tone is, considering it dates from the Seventies, neither patronising nor adulatory ~ nor, thank goodness, Politically Correct.  We are treated to a fair assessment of the explorers' abilities and shortcomings.  Burke and Wills, for example, we surely the wrong pair to explore a back garden, let alone the Australian Outback.  Amundsen is given credit for his organisational ability, but we are also shown that he was never really accepted in his lifetime as a truely great explorer, because he was hidden by the shadow of Scott all his later life.  This cannot substitute for a good series of biographies; as a popular book, as a way to start to know more about ten brave men and an entirely amazing woman, it is a great success.	2001-01-24
US	51200408	R348TCCFDQRYS9	0399146601	927649912	Shattered	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quick &amp; easy, but a good read.	What does one read a Francis for?  In my case, as with reading Robert B. Parker, neither plot nor theme is of paramount importance.  Francis' characters here are, as always, a little stronger than life, yet believable.  His hero, Gerard Logan, is the same basic character as in Francis' other novels, simply, as usual, with a different background.  His situation, as usual, is something of a puzzle to which he does not have all the pieces; the plot is primarily his blundering ~ and then finessing ~ his way to the answer.  Along with the regular hero, we also meet the regular love interest ~ a policewoman ~ a rather nasty villainess with a cadre of willing and unwilling helpers, and a nice boy caught on the outskirts of the villains but leaning towards the good.  His rescue is one of the extra tasks our hero accomplishes.  Perhaps the best part about most of Francis' novels is the way that he learns about a new trade or art and then passes all his information on to us.  I especially enjoyed this book's extra knowledge, as i live in &quot;Crystal City,&quot; because Logan is a glassblower ~ an artist in glass.  I have seen many of the things he does done; yet reading the descriptions adds more to the experience and imagination.  I don't think i have yet come away from one of Francis' books without the desire to know more, or participate in, the activity he teaches us of.  That alone makes for successful books.  &quot;Shattered&quot; fits that category, too.	2001-01-24
US	51200408	R1R5UCJUIIG5RX	0396087485	972306683	The Life and Times of Miss Jane Marple	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Organised sorting of Christie's information	A biography of Agatha Christie's female lead, Jane Marple.  Fairly well written, as far as it goes, which is, naturally, no further than Christie went.  Hart does not invent anything, barely speculates on the information we don't have given in the canon of half a dozen novels and a dozen or more short stories.  Rather than a biography, even one of a fictional character, this is more of a systematisation (is that the word i want?) of the given information.  As such, it is interesting to learn how unsystematic Christie was; Miss Marple changed over the years, and i had never previously realised just how much, how inconsistent some of the stories are.  If i want information about Miss Marple ~ or St. Mary Mead ~ this is the book to turn to (other than reading blindly in the canon); if i'm looking for interesting speculations or character development on Christie's invention, this is not it.	2001-01-03
US	51200408	R1G2XIB5UUBVL7	0425152901	562550979	Thin Air (Spenser)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Spenser (or Parker) Rules, OK.	More plot to this novel ~ more detecting too ~ than some other Spenser stories.  Still, plot is not everything, and still not the real reason one reads Parker.  The interplay between Spenser and Susan is as strong as ever; Hawk is in Burma ~ don't ask ~ so we miss seeing him and Spenser.  There is a Hawk replacement in the person of Chollo, a Latino hit-man from one of Spenser's West Coast connexions and, while not as detailed or intricate as the Hawk conversations, his with Spenser are still pleasurable.  The pretext for the action this time is the disappearance of Lisa St. Claire, wife of Spenser's Boston PD friend Frank Belson.  When Belson is hit with three shots from behind Spenser activates himself and goes hunting.  The trail leads to a Hispanic community in northern Massachusetts ~ hence the introduction of the Latino side-kick.  A welcome innovation (from Parker, not for fiction as a whole) is the use of third person sections interspersed, in a different type-face, telling of Lisa's experience.  We thus are given both the hunter and hunted points of view.	2001-01-03
US	51200408	RI6XLZUNYEXDH	0810928930	217101132	Writing: The Story of Alphabets and Scripts	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Interesting intoduction, but not a full text	A small book, recapping briefly the history of writing from Akkad and Sumer through the development of printing in the West and China.  There are, in fact, two sections:  First, the overview of languages and writing, without an overly forceful emphasis on the West, which avoids the taint of cultural bias nicely; second, a group of documents ~ quotations ~ from all sorts of sources, about writing, the alphabets, ideograms, and more.  The documents are interesting, though a little confused, especially as regarding the plates that illustrate them; it is not always possible to tell what is what.  And the first section is a fascinating overview, well written (or well translated [from the French], it's hard to know with a translation), though with little in it i didn't actually know already.  The most important thing that a book of this nature can do is to whet the appetite for more.  Consider mine whetted.	2001-01-03
US	51200408	RQN1SGMHSCN0U	1580650236	341337923	1001: A Video Odyssey, Movies to Watch for Your Every Mood (What to Eat, When to Watch, Great Movie Quotes)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;What do i feel like watching?&quot; is completely answered here.	A collection of lists of movies, movies and lists for every mood you can be in.  I really like this concept (i don't think it's been done before, not quite just like this), and i enjoy Tatham's writing.  The only complaint i have is that for many films the description is highly idiosyncratic, and if you don't know the film ~ or much about Tatham's taste ~ you won't really learn much of the movies listed, certainly not a good idea of whether or not to watch it.  The lists, then, function more as a reminder of movies that you already know something about, categorised, listed, to remind you of them, rather than a video guide.  (Easier to carry than the video guide, though.)  While i disagree with some of his opinions (his adulatory view of Woody Allen is highly suspect in my view ~ and maybe that makes me suspect in yours), the opinion and placement of a movie in a specific list does aid me in thinking about that movie.<br />Tatham is, according to the blurb, a comedian and writer.  Most of the time (when he's not straining), his writing here shows it; the descriptions of the films, though not always helpful, are usually amusing at the least, sometimes honestly funny.  This is a fun book to read ~ a nice compliment for a 'reference book'.	2001-01-02
US	51200408	RYGM79BKXBR2Z	0785720685	533233342	Don't Know Much about Geography: Everything You Need to Know about the World But Never Learned	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good style, fair facts	Designed as a friendly supplement to an adult American's geographical knowledge ~ which can be amazingly incomplete ~ this is a fair success in its aim, in that it assumes very little other than interest on the part of the reader and in the tone, which is never condescending (Davis is probably a graduate of the American public school system and knows what his audience has had to cope with).  For my part, i did not learn a whole lot i'd never known before, though i was reminded of some facts, but then i am not a member of Davis's target audience.  It is a measure of the book's success with me as well, though, that i was sorry to arrive at the appendices and, thus, the end.  I shall search out, at some point, Davis's other listed book, &quot;Don't Know Much About History&quot; and see if that is as simple and satisfying a read.  I'll probably learn there, too, since it is about American history.	2000-12-26
US	51200408	R38662GMBU2EE0	0553290959	402419376	The Sands of Mars	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Cogent Clarke Carries Conviction	For a science fiction book written in the late 1940s, this is an amazingly undated piece of work.  Oh, sure, there are a few anachronisms ~ vacuum tubes and the possibility of vegetation on Mars are the most obvious to my non-scientific mind ~ and we are not as close to having a colony there at the end of the Twentieth Century as Clarke expected, but almost nothing else is out of place.  The plot itself is impeccable; Clarke has created likeable, fun, believable, cogent characters of whom it is a pleasure to read.  Martin Gibson is a Terran writer journeying to Mars to report on the successes there; his discoveries, including the major one that life on a frontier is what he wants.  Mars is on the cusp of starting to make itself independant of Earth by the success of a secret project that Warren Hadfield ~ Chief Executive ~ has had scientists working on:  Nothing less, in fact, than the complete reformation of the planet is contemplated.  There are surprises a-plenty and mountains of pleasure in this, Clarke's first great novel.  It deserves more renown than it has.	2000-12-08
US	51200408	R2BS6KK3P3IXUT	0440192463	374821106	Valediction (Spenser)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Philosophy from Parker; a pleasant departure.	This is the book in which Susan Silverman ~ that's Dr. Silverman to you and me ~ leaves Spenser for the West Coast, freedom, and the attempt to be someone apart from Spenser.  The attempt, of course, miserably fails, as is revealed in &quot;A Catskill Eagle&quot;.  Spenser does actually have a legitimate case in this book, at least at the beginning it is legitimate; after a while it becomes a cat and mouse game, and it is no longer clear who is playing with whom.  Throughout the whole novel Parker explores, to a degree, what it means to love someone:  Spenser loves Susan; Spenser loves Linda, but will drop her for Susan if he can; Susan loves Spenser, but has to be away from his completeness to become complete herself; Sherry loves Tommy, but organises his death; Winston loves his Church but uses it for drug-dealing.  How are we to understand all this love?  This is the question Parker wants us to ponder as we dig through the depths of Boston society.  It is unusual for him to be posing philosophical questions in this way, as opposed to the regular quesions of life and death (Will Spenser kill or be killed?); i quite like the departure, especially as the questions never subordinate the plot but grow out of it properly.  A pleasant afternoon's read (as what Parker isn't?).	2000-12-08
US	51200408	RSO6SC0RRXBRS	0899662919	293043356	Drums Along the Mohawk	Books	4	17	26	N	N	Exciting story, disturbing themes.	Took me longer to read than most books of comparable size (three weeks, only c.600pp), don't really know why ~ not any fault of the book, i think.  This is the story of some of the settlers along the Mohawk River (New York colony, near Albany), during the time of the American Revolution.  Edmonds does a wonderful job of making his reader understand the difficulties of the time, including particularly the destructive effects of living during a time of war.  Yearly there is the heartbreak of having sown seed, grown hay, harvested crops, only to have them destroyed by Indians and British troops based in Niagara; on top of that, of course, is the fear of whether you will make it through the day with your scalp intact.  The reader understands the horror of living in the primitive forts, crowded into a tiny space, for weeks at a time, for protection from those roving bands of Destructives.  Curious it is that Edmonds finds his theme appropriate for when he was writing (the mid 1930's); much more appropriate today is the theme of having to rebel against a distant power which desires to rule at all costs, and the struggle to make a success of the neglect of the duly constituted authorities ~ except that today (as opposed to the Revolutionary times) both powers are one and the same: the three branched government the Revolution's struggles pictured here were to result in.  O irony.	2000-12-08
US	51200408	RELZCZVTWHHKJ	0684850613	254872191	Spanking Watson: A Novel (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Let down; not as good	Again Friedman writes in a strange and unique voice.  Again, as with Parker's Spenser, the plot is subordinate to the characters' interactions and, more importantly here, the voice of the narrator.  The plot is slight:  Kinky decides to harass the lesbian dance instructor upstairs and, simultaneously, tries to find out about a woman whose life he once saved ~ and wouldn't you know it, she's right upstairs.  Curiously, i found this less satisfying than the previous Friedman i've read.  I began to find the characters blurring before mine eyes until, at one point, i couldn't tell McGovern from Brennan ~ and discovered i didn't really care.  Not a disaster; not even a waste of time; but i no longer have that wonderful feeling that i *will* read the next Friedman i come across.	2000-11-22
US	51200408	R3YIXYKPX7D1K	0151878498	771160077	Taken on Trust	Books	4	8	9	N	N	What can people do to people?	I picked this up at the library because i remember very clearly when Waite was captured and held hostage.  What a story.  I found myself moved almost to tears by the end, as i thought of Waite and the three other hostages he ended up with, not to mention the many others who were held in Lebanon during the same time.  Parenthetically, i do not know what it is that causes me to cry nowadays; is it a function of age? of some increased sensibilities? of a new maturity?  Whatever the cause, i now find tears coming to me more and more frequently as i read or see a movie or, even, just think.  End diversion.  As i read i did wish that the tale was a little less disjointed.  I know why it is, and i accept the reasoning behind it; i simply feel that the story was more confusing than it need be.  Perhaps if the present (being held in Beirut) had been in a different type-face...?  I don't know.  Nevertheless, the literary merit of the book is hardly the purpose for reading it.  As the story of a man held for almost five years, four of them, i think, alone, this is remarkable.  Not once do you get the feeling that Waite is whining (and why shouldn't he?  When he first saw his son again after the captivity he saw &quot;a young man I assumed was Mark&quot;), as was the case of the other book i read from the same experience (was it Terry Anderson? i don't remember).  One is filled with respect for Waite and the forbearance he shows his captors; i want to reach out and slap them silly, ask them how they could treat a human being in such a way.  But he forgives them.  How many men could do that?  Apparently this servant of God and the Church is one.	2000-11-22
US	51200408	R1GB39H4Z72ROG	0446312193	353324768	Unnatural Causes (Adam Dagliesh Mystery Series #3)	Books	4	39	42	N	N	Ignore other reviews; this is a fine James	Curious that, with such an arresting opening as this book has (a handless corpse floating off the Suffolk coast), i should find it so difficult to get involved with.  I think, more than anything, i found it a little tough to tell some of the characters apart at first.  Once past that point, however, this became, like just about every other James, the best one she's written.  One grows to enjoy the little community she has created, the petty spites and jealousies, the sniping back and forth between these largely unsuccessful (at least in terms of importance) writers, at the death of one of them.  Even Dalgliesh, in Suffolk on holiday, so the death is not his case, has trouble in his relationship with the local Inspector in charge of the case, they are overtly polite, but there is tension between them; he cannot hold himself back from doing some investigation on his own, however, and is able to show that murder has been committed, though not prevent another.  The actual revelation of method and motive are interesting and unusual, in that James makes use of the murderer's confession to show how it was done.  Another classic James and Dalgliesh.	2000-11-22
US	51200408	R9LGO1JWFYFFW	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Introduction to Literature, 101	Read aloud to the girls.  An enchanting classic ~ i find it casts a spell over me each time i read it.  I am able to enter into the story, suffer along with the characters, feel with them, be sorry for their travails, be saddened by their foolishness, and mourn as Thorin Oakenshield, Kili and Fili die in battle.  It is difficult to read this book and not see foreshadowing of &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; though that is not the best way to read it.  It does not tie perfectly with the latter book, there are a couple of points which don't link, quite.  But for the most part i see the trilogy in the book, and had to be careful not to push it too much to the girls ~ apart from anything else, it is probably a little above them right now, and it would certainly be a major commitment to read.  Standing by itself, &quot;The Hobbit&quot; is a wonderful story, with a well-wrought plot, characters that are near enough human for us to relate to them, yet far enough from us for the enchantment to work, and enough stylistic ties to legend, myth, and saga that it is familiar to me and will ring echoes in the girls' ears as they read further.	2000-11-11
US	51200408	RHUGQ4YUPW0VY	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SF hit a peak here.	A story of First Contact.  No.  The Story of First Contact.  It is hard to imagine how first contact with a non-terrestrial species could unfold differently from this novel's projection, allowing for the inevitable differences in characteristics between Niven and Pournelle's imagined species and whatever true one(s) emerge.  Neither side can afford to let the full truth be known; both sides hide certain secrets all the while attempting to pull out the other's; yet both sides really want (for differing reasons here) peace and the possibility of growing prosperity between species.  The thought of the different castes/subspecies of the Moties was a wonderful touch; the secret they conceal, a history of continual and destructive Cycles, based on their biology, was inspired.  Even without these two aspects of the non-Human intelligence, though, this is a wonderful book.  Well written, with strong characters, some of whom are neither &quot;good&quot; nor &quot;bad&quot; ~ though one attributes them one way or the other at various times ~ but, like all people, a mixture of motives.  The only quibble i have, the only thing which jarred slightly was the sudden and utter turnabout of the Trader Bury from a twisting weasel to a straightforward enemy of the Moties.  I know why it happened, it just doesn't quite ring true.  One small point, though, in a full-length novel isn't bad going!	2000-11-11
US	51200408	R2W89A50NDU2E6	1853262226	717793541	In Chancery (The Forsyte Saga)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Galsworthy writes perfection.	The second volume of the Forsyte Saga; this time primarily the story of Jolyon (Young Jolyon), Soames (who might be called Young James), and Irene ~ Soames' wife who becomes Jolyon's lover.  Galsworthy is really the forerunner of Joyce, with at least as much understanding of how men think, and close to (if not as much) the ability to portray it ~ in a more readable fashion.  There is real affection in the portrayal of his characters, as much because Galsworthy was by birth a member of the rising upper middle class in England during the time of which he wrote as for any intrinsic value in those characters.  As he shows them, though, they are close to loveable, certainly Jolyon is admirable, and Soames is, by his lights, decent ~ even if he does have an unrequitable passion for his wife.  Though this is by no means an action-packed plot ~ i knew the essence of the action before i read it, from having read the Introduction ~ it nevertheless compelled me to read, read closely, read quickly.  I shall be hard pressed to wait the few weeks i've promised myself before i borrow this volume from the library again and read &quot;To Let,&quot; the third novel in the Saga.	2000-11-09
US	51200408	R2KT86DCPAMI2T	0374146667	504582040	Eichmann Interrogated: Transcripts from the Archives of the Israeli Police (English and German Edition)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Nutritive but rather distasteful	Yuck.  Reading this is like eating liver and onions ~ a wonderful aroma, and a few tasty morsels, but for the most part to be choked down a little bit at a time.  I don't know why i picked this up at this particular time; perhaps it resonated because i had recently finished &quot;Schindler's List&quot; and was interested in knowing more.  Now i know...very little more.  Eichmann spends almost the entire transcript of the interrogation avoiding questions, claiming to be a minor official with no decision-making capacity, remembering arranging transportation of Jews with no reference to what happened to them afterwards, and justifying every action he ever took by Befehlsnotstand ~ being legally constrained to follow the orders he was given.  This is the record of a man who was, apparently, happy enough to participate in evil once he had been brought into it ~ in his defence, it doesn't appear that Eichmann went out of his way to become the Reich specialist on Jewish questions ~ but was unwilling either to renounce it when given the chance or to stay with it unrepentant to the end, as Himmler et al did.  I literally had to read this in small doses, because he was so casual about this actions, and yet so unwilling to see the consequences of any action taken; the interrogator, one Avner Less, must have wanted to shake the prisoner and ask him, just once, to listen and think.	2000-11-09
US	51200408	R39E89JYQGLULQ	0671880314	156284675	Schindler's List	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Inspirational, and scary (could i do it?)	Keneally says that he is writing a novel here, but also that this is history.  With these two partially contradictory claims, it is hard to know just how much of this book is truth and how much is fiction.  Assuming mostly or all truth, this is an almost incredible story; Oskar Schindler, for almost no discernible reason, decided to preserve as many Cracovian Jews from the conquering Nazis as he could.  The blurb claims he saved more than anyone else during that horrific period, which is fairly easy to believe, as one does not know of many being saved at all.  Through the whole story Schindler carries the aura of invincibility and fore-knowledge which adds both credibility and colour to the characterisation.  One cannot imagine an author seriously expecting to be believed when he claims to invent a man who, virtually in the shadow of Auschwitz, is able to winkle Jews away from the death-chambers; the very outrageousness of the claim speaks for it.	2000-11-09
US	51200408	RSH2NS9EK5Y1V	0140185232	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	7	8	N	N	More to this than just the plot.	I read this once before, in Rome, when i read most of the Maugham i have read ~ several novels and large quantities of the short stories.  I have, at least to a degree, the same reaction now i had then:  Is this fiction or truth disguised as fiction?  Doubtless the reaction (one of them) Maugham wanted one to have.  I feel that this book is didactic in a differing way from Maugham's usual stories; not heavy-handed ~ my inclination is to call the others often heavy-handed ~ but straighter, more honest about the didacticism.  The question that arises, of course, is What are we supposed to learn from Larry Darrell?  And, Is this the story of Larry or Elliot, Isabel, and Gray?  And, Is this truly a success story, as Maugham claims, or, just as reasonably, a story of the failure of the story-teller's art?  I can't answer the questions, of course; i can just pose them.  So, do i like it, or is that another unanswerable question?  Yes; i liked it in the early '80s and i like it today.  As a description of how to live your life, what the answers to the questions of faith are, a solution to the problem of evil, it is an utter failure:  Larry never gives an inch on allowing anyone to know his quest or its results.  As a picture of a man's quest to understand it is a success.  The story could not be told otherwise:  Even the periodic style of revelation fits the subject matter, beause that is how our lives  and any searches we undertake are.  We do not, except in the rarest cases, proceed straight from birth, though maturity and a search, to understanding.  Our lives are episodic, convoluted, and puzzling.  &quot;The Razor's Edge&quot; does not sort through the confusion, it merely asserts that one man has found a path to his satisfaction.	2000-11-09
US	51200408	RNH7MKKDWKO1H	0684822512	208782941	The Book Of Eulogies	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A sensible anthology	A collection of eulogies, as the title implies, along with some letters and writings on death and grief.  It is a curious fact that, as shown here, the most unlikely people can be eloquent in the face of death.  Many of the eulogies here quoted are beautiful and moving not for the sake of the dead but for the power of the language used to carry them back to the hearers' and readers' memories.  Especially noteworthy are Atat&uuml;rk's memorial to soldiers ~ both Allies and Central Powers ~ who died at Gallipoli in W.W.I, Richard Selzer on his mother, Neru on Ghandi ~ more than can be listed.  Not at all the morbid book one might think this would be; it is, in fact, more a celebration of the possibilities of life than a mourning about death.	2000-11-09
US	51200408	R18R8Z32D3A8T8	0441653049	134591962	The Past Through Tomorrow: Future History Stories	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Heinlein before he started riding hobby horses.	Part of the &quot;Future History&quot; series in which Heinlein first got (or expressed) the desire to tie all his stories together in one coherant whole.  Here he does it well.  This was one of the first Heinleins i read, twentyfive years ago, and i still remember the power it held over me as i devoured it.  Certain of the stories (a collection of short stories and novellas) are weaker, relatively, but everything is strong enough that the whole is a unified totality which can carry anything not to your taste (in my case, &quot;The Roads Must Roll&quot;).  As he almost always does, Heinlein has created believable and (more important?) likable characters.  The most fun story in the collection is &quot;Methuselah's Children&quot; which is the introduction of the Howard Families, and the (here much more) likable cuss, Lazarus Long.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	R2OSP34ZD7RHPY	0830819290	999464694	Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law & Education	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Tough to read, but thoughtful and thought provoking	An interesting exploration of why science and its claims ought not to be accepted at face value, but should at least be challenged on the basis that its foundations (and therefore results) are assumed, and frequently assumed to be other than they are.  Johnson is a Christian, a Creationist ~ though not one of those wrong-headed usually called Creation-Scientists ~ and a strong writer.  This is a book of philosophy (i think), and i am not a deep thinker, so i found it slow going; i did find his conclusions ~ essentially that science/naturistic materialism is speaking to things it is not competent to speak to, including origins and purposes, in the insistance that such questions must not be asked ~ convincing, but then i am frequently impressed by what i have recently read.  I should like to read a critique of Johnson by someone who takes him and the questions seriously ~ which all too many reviewers and disputants apparently do not.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	R3JA22WMERJZFA	0425174018	398480832	Hush Money (Spenser)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Plot?  Who needs a plot?	A Spenser novel.  Not much else to say.  Parker can, as far as i'm concerned, write about Spenser for as long as he writes.  An imperfect gentleman, an oddly-techniqued Boston detective, a good friend, a human being, Spenser is fun to read about and commiserate with.  As pleasurable as himself are his friends, Hawk and Susan Silverman; both intelligent, knowledgable about people (from the opposite ends of the spectrum), and loyal to a fault, they make Spenser's life easier.  There cannot be much higher praise for supporting characters.  The story itself here involves Spenser taking on two separate cases pro bono for the sake of Hawk and Susan.  Susan's concerns a friend who is being stalked; this provides much of the humour in the book as Spenser becomes stalked himself after she transfers her affections to him.  Hawk's is the meat of the plot; it revolves around a professor, the son of Hawk's mentor, who has been unjustly denied tenure.  This plot encompasses black/white, homo-/heterosexual, activist tensions and political correctness.  Naturally, Spenser and Hawk are able eventually to penetrate the fog of anger, fear, and secrecy surroundig the denial of tenure.  The actual resolution itself was a little disappointing to me, just your standard climactic twist, but this is really a minor quibble, since one does not read Parker for the plot but the characters; here he does not fail.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	R247N8LJUZDDRN	0345331915	985497884	The Case of the Phantom Fortune	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A quick evening's work	A typical Gardner Perry Mason mystery.  The plot is clever, but built just the same way as every other Mason story:  A client who doesn't tell all the truth to his attorney; an attractive woman with a secret; an unpleasent fellow who dies; a policeman who merely functions as an example of how not to do police work; a D.A. who is mad at Mason; and a twist that comes out all right for our heroes.  It's written with Gardner's typical style, too:  He uses words inaccurately (&quot;commenced&quot; for &quot;began&quot; is the one that always annoys me), and has dialogue no one would ever use (Mason always, inevitably, calls his detective &quot;Paul Drake&quot; ~ never &quot;Paul&quot; or &quot;Drake&quot;, or even &quot;him&quot; as a real person would).  That all being said, i still read Gardner, occasionally.  Why?  Because he is fun, and an entertaining way to spend an evening.  That's all the time he takes (all he took, too, to write each book, i think); all i'm willing to give him.  But, for that evening, he's worth it.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	RCF5ZXO9ON4E	0425157474	472732034	Chance (Spenser)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Read for characters, not plot	Another Spenser story.  Again, the plot is fun, though simple; Spenser and Hawk, to a degree, carried by events rather than determining them.  The case, this time, involves the disappeared gambling son-in-law of a mob ruler in Boston, whom Spenser is hired to find.  Gradually we are drawn into the underlife of Boston, there is a power struggle going on there, and this son-in-law is, remotely, involved in it.  Again, though, plot is of less importance than the interplay between Spenser, Hawk, and Susan, and Spenser and Hawk and the assorted bad guys they take on, including their client, and their contacts, to whom they go for information.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	R14OK03OI55LMD	0689813945	543137294	The Kidnappers: A Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ideal for the age-group	I've watched Chenowyth devour several of Roberts' books, and i wondered what the attraction was for a twelve year old.  Now i know.  There is suspense, as Joel Bishop's best enemy is kidnapped, within Joel's view, and he struggles to make the adults around him believe that something actually happened.  There are a good couple of twists to the plot, as...i can't tell you what.  There are believeable characters, including a pair of hard policemen; well-observed, well portrayed.  For a young reader, this is probably just the right level of complexity, frustration with adults, exposure to evil, and certainty of a happy ending.  No wonder Chen adores these and checks the &quot;R&quot; section every time we visit the library.	2000-10-11
US	51200408	R28B5GSFZ5RAUR	0618057021	551242033	J.R.R. Tolkien: A Biography	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wonderful subject; adequate treatment	A simple biography of a man who did not believe in them, nor want one for himself.  I expect that by now, twentyseven years after his death, there is as least one critical biography which attempts to delve into the meaning and source of Middle Earth, the Silmarils, hobbits, and the rest of Tolkien's mythology; Carpenter's is not, nor does it make any attempt to be that biography.  In this book Carpenter has given the basic, at times dry, facts of his subject's life.  In fact, rather amusingly, the facts are so simple that Carpenter has had to flesh them out with invention:  The description of a &quot;typical day&quot; in the late twenties/thirties ~ Tolkien's fourth and fifth decades.  There is not as much as we could hope for about the Inklings, about C.S. Lewis, about the other friendships of Tolkien; they are mentioned, of course, and much is made of the fact that they were important to Tolkien, important enough that this book is &quot;Dedicated to the memory of 'The T.C.B.S.'&quot; ~ the earliest male grouping Tolkien formed ~ but never do we really gather a picture of them, other than the hazy one of a group of non-homosexual (important enough to mention at least a couple of times) men gathering.  I would have liked more, especially as Carpenter is very carefully not delving into the meanings of the myths embodied in, above all, &quot;The Sillmarillion&quot;.  I enjoyed this book, but i want more, and expected more from it.  NB:  I read the 1977 edition of this biography; Carpenter's new edition may be radically different.	2000-10-10
US	51200408	R2AIP3YL3RTQ33	0783815042	318101768	The Man of Property (The Forsyte Saga)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Truly a classic -- time-tested, and well worn	First book in The Forsyte Saga, the first trilogy about Galsworthy's family, the Forsytes.  I have always known that this is a classic; i can remember Mum &amp; Dad watching &quot;The Forsyte Saga&quot; on BBC, when i was under ten.  I've thought about reading it at various times since then, when i 've seen parts of the Sage in various libraries, but have never taken the plunge.  What a fool i was.  This book is wonderful.  It is not fast-paced; there is not a lot of action; there aren't thrills and spill for the average modern reader raised on television and motion pictures.  What it does have, however, is a delicately portrayed family of characters, nice (in the older sense) irony, gentle interplay between people, and a carefully told story of the disintegration of an engagement, and the loss of a marriage.  Very definitely written about the late Victorian Age (it takes place in 1884), some of the people's attitudes are radically (literally, other-rooted) different from the prevailing views of the Western world today.  Soames' musings about marriage, the duty of his wife, and his exercise of his rights with her, would not stand today; fascinating they are, though, as a view into our great grandparents' world.  Roll on the next two books of the trilogy.	2000-10-10
US	51200408	R1JADUNM16U6FO	0684826127	346694031	Water Witches	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Consistent characters make this a successful book	The story, at heart, of one man's acceptance of who he is.  Scottie Winston is a lobbiest for several large resorts in Vermont.  Resorts which use (or abuse) the environment.  He is also married into a family of dousers, who, along with many others, oppose the current development in their neck of the woods.  Through the processes of time, the timely intervention of three wildcats, and, most of all, love for his wife and daughter, he becomes true to himself.  This is a nicely written book, with well-defined characters, a coherent plot, and a happy ending.	2000-10-10
US	51200408	RLDOCD7BL6AZ2	014028155X	897584228	Mendel's Dwarf	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Entertaining, but you leave with questions	I'm not quite sure what i was expecting when i picked this book up ~ to begin with i misread the title as &quot;Mandal's Dwarf&quot; and didn't see  the genetic connexion at first ~ but it wasn't this.  The story, on the  surface that of a dwarf genetic researcher, and his rather less than  satisfactory love-life, intertwines with imaginings of Mendel's life,  including his rather deprived love-life (the man was a friar, after all!),  and plenty of surprisingly detailed information about genetics and  eugenics.  The science, at least to my mind, is fully understandable and  never obtrusive.  The cuts to Mendel are a little more out of place (at  times i wondered just whose story i was actually reading), though in the  end justifiable.  (Benedict Lambert, the dwarf, is shown to be related to  Mendel, thus the appropriateness of his choice of vocation.  Curiously, the  way Mawer has written it, there is no genetic relationship between Lambert  and Mendel, though Lambert claims there is; to my mind this is a clear  error on Mawer's part, and is more than a little distracting to me.  I  would have preferred that he forget about the connexion idea entirely, or  get it right.)  The heart of the story, though, is the empty life of the  protagonist, a mutation, an achondroplastic dwarf, and the manipulations he  puts himself and others through in his search for his genetic roots and any  meaning to his life.  Ultimately not at all a hopeful book, this is a  compelling on:  Deep questions are asked and no answers can be found.  The reader is loft pondering them himself, and they will, eventually, in  any philosophy of life, demand answers.	2000-09-19
US	51200408	R35RLOOTNHUAX2	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This time all the exaggerations are true:  Wonderful book!	What a delight of a book.  Written in the form of a seventeen year old girl's journal, over the period of six months during which her life and  that of her (rather unusual) family change dramatically, this novel  introduces us to one of the most likeable voices in fiction.  Cassandra  Mortmain, an aspiring writer, keeps the journal to hone her skills; she  ends up, rather, getting to know herself and her surroundings better.  Smith manages to keep her reader's interest effortlessly (or so it seems,  though the hints given by Mr. Mortmain's struggles may indicate otherwise),  through a carefully rationed supply of surprises, small suspenses, and the  sheer curiosity she has created about the future of the Mortmain family.  The most frustrating (though perhaps most amusing for Smith) part of the  thing is that Mr. Mortmain is an author himself, the highly regarded author  of a book of fiction, poetry, experiments, called &quot;Jacob's  Wrestling&quot; that figures in &quot;Capture,&quot; but we are given  tantalisingly little information about it.  I expect Smith enjoyed doing  that to us; i know i would.  Though it has the feel of a juvenile book (the  narrator is seventeen, it's about [among other things] first loves), this  is an adult book; though teenagers can read and enjoy it, more will be  discovered by the active adult reader.	2000-09-19
US	51200408	R202A2SUCMI6IC	0062720333	670197882	A History of English in Its Own Words	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A clever linguistics lesson	More than just a dictionary, though that is what it is at base, this book  is a linguistics lesson, an history lesson, and an entertainment, all  wrapped into one.  Divided into six sections, corresponding roughly with  historical periods in the development of English, with one geographic  (American) thrown in for good measure, the words are given, along with a  history of meaning, a derivation (or sometimes several, when which one is  uncertain), and, often, a relevant, illustrative quote.  I found the two  earliest sections the most interesting, perhaps because i find it  fascinating to know the ultimate indo-european root of the words (though i  do wonder, what lies behind those roots?), and the predominate in these two  sections.  This is a fascinating book; good for a quick browse or, as i  have done, reading from front to back like a novel.  Carver is  knowledgable, and able to pleasingly convey his knowledge to me.	2000-09-15
US	51200408	R29E5PS4NFXN08	0689828179	890470077	King of Shadows	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Just not up to my expectations	I was excited to read this book because of the way Chenowyth (my daughter) reacted to receiving it for her (twelfth) birthday ~ an absolute meltdown  into uncontrollable tears ~ and i knew both she and Lynne love it.  Perhaps  it is unfair to give any book such a buildup and not expect to be at least  a little disappointed.  This is a good book, don't get me wrong.  It is  not, though, to my way of reading, an all-time favourite.  I am glad i have  read it; it's a good story ~ the story of young Nat Field, an actor in a  boy's company, who, travelling to England to play in the Globe in 1999, is  curiously taken back in time to play in the original Globe with the  Chamberlain's Men, including Shakespeare ~ but not a great story.  The plot  is rather contrived, and where questions arise Cooper has not used her  imagination to answer them but rather ignored them.  Nat's meeting with  Shakespeare is trite, and how predictable that he would become a special  favourite ~ almost instantly ~ of the Bard.  Sadly, the only time i was  moved in reading this book was on the last page, when i was touched by  something the suddenly mysterious company director, Arby, said to Nat, now  safely and unhappily back in the Twentieth Century.  I shall doubtless read  &quot;King&quot; again at a later date, just to see if i have entirely  missed something, but currently i feel left out.  I suspect Chen has found  for herself the first love that is her own ~ every other book she has  adored is something we adored before her and gave her.  I wish the  expectation had worked the other way with this book.	2000-09-15
US	51200408	R1U15MPDBZPO23	1851497005	85988746	Mistress Masham's Repose (Antique Collector's Club Children's Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Can i go to Malplaquet, please?	I have wished that i could go to Lilliput; in fact, i seem to recall reading a book with jealousy years ago in which a child or children went to Lilliput in the modern worl.  Now, it seems, it would not be possible.  The  only remaining Lilliputians were kidnapped in the Eighteenth Century and  brought to England to be displayed.  They escaped and have been living for  two hundred years on an otherwise empty island in the property, Malplaquet,  of an ancient family.  The current representative of the family is a  poverty-stricken ten year old girl who discovers the little people.  The  tale shows the results, both bad and good, for them and for her.  This is a  delightful book; neither too easy for an adult nor too hard (as if there is  such a thing) for a child.  The villains, a Vicar and a Governess, are just  funny enough to tip the balance away from any true fear for Maria ~ the  little girl ~ and allow for full enjoyment of the ridiculous characters,  situations, and resolutions White offers.  It is quite true that  &quot;Gulliver's Travels&quot; was, when written, a savage and cutting  satire, whereas now we read it for enjoyment as children.  &quot;Misstress  Masham's Repose&quot; likewise contains more than a simple children's  story; likewise, though, it is the story future generations will read it  for.	2000-09-08
US	51200408	R1GE55HMU7GCXI	0441094996	271001733	The Cat Who Walks through Walls	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Not worthy to carry the Master's Name on the cover	On occasion ~ &quot;Expanded Universe&quot; and this book, for two  examples ~ Heinlein has expressed the opinion that to write is a disease  which may only be excised through the process of writing something.  Anything.  Unfortunately, the latter was his choice in preparing this book,  so what we have here is going on four hurndred pages, some large number of  thousand words (Heinlein always could produce), of something which may have  provided relief for the author, but gives none to his reader.  The first  half reads like the Heinlein of old, almost; looks as though it is going to  be a fine adventure story along the lines of &quot;Harsh Mistress&quot; or  &quot;Spacesuit&quot; with a pair of brand new heroes who are as attractive  as any he's ever produced.  Sadly, partway through, he succombed to the  desire to tie everything together (always a Heinlein weakness) with every  other book he ever wrote.  Thus, in come Lazerus Long, the Burroughs,  Boondock, Jubal Harshaw, and the rest, and out go intelligent  story-telling, character development, and the reader's pleasure.  All of a  sudden the plot hinges on the rescue of what is possibly my favourite  (certainly in the top five) Heinlein character ~ Mike, the computer behind  Adam Selene ~ from Lunar City, in a different time-line, a different  section of the multiverse all together.  I take second place to no one in  my desire to see Mike again, but not this way; never this way.  Unfortunately, a secondary frustration with this book is that Heinlein  himself is caught up in the time-paradoxes he creates, and doesn't seem to  realise it.  He shows people erased, shows a memory fading, as a result of  a history change, but doesn't realise that the Burroughs themselves ought  to have been erased, since they can be shown never to have existed in their  own timeline.  This is a minor quibble, though, compared with the greater  disappointment of seeing a wonderful, strong, genius may not be too strong,  talent wasted on this dreck.  And that's not even mentioning the cat....ed on this dreck.  And that's not even mentioning the cat....	2000-09-08
US	51200408	R1JAA6CAAZQW1	0312972970	842875459	Grave Mistake (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Much better than i anticipated.	First Marsh i've read in, oh, probably twentyfive years.  I recall being a  little unimpressed previously, which must be why i never went back to her.  I am here to confirm, after this book, that i made a grave mistake in  writing her off.  More reviews of her work will doubtless feature here in  the future, as i shall continue to read her.  Like P.D. James, Marsh has  the ability to create believable, likable or unlikable characters, and put  them into situations in which they act and react properly.  Also like  James, she can create a nice twist in the tale.  The mystery here is not as  hard to penetrate as, for example, Christie at the height of her powers;  nevertheless, it is terribly satisfying to know that i had figured out,  along with Alleyn and Fox ~ the policemen involved ~ just who had killed  whom and why.  I love books in which the characters make me stop reading  for a moment or two because i'm frustrated with what they've said or done,  because it's so true and so annoying.  This book made me do that several  times, with several of the characters ~ Sybil Foster, the victim, Dr.  Schramm, the man with a past ~ and this involuntary action is a tribute to  the writing.	2000-08-28
US	51200408	R1FC7SFC2IKRSI	0425129624	393740026	A Murder Is Announced	Books	4	1	5	N	N	High, but not top, notch Christie	A rather dated Christie mystery; shows the effects of the years after the  Second World War, rationing, coupons, and the subsequent bartering made  necessary.  Unlike some of her works, this one has not aged quite as well;  part of the problem is that the mystery's machinations depend upon things  which are not today, including the WWII effects mentioned before.  Also,  some of the people and types are simply different nowadays, people do not  behave the same way.  In many Christies, of course, this is the case, but  in this particular one the apparently unnatural behaviour stands out rather  more.  Of course, the mystery iteslf is well written, well hidden, and  satisfyingly revealed with the help of Miss Marple.  Indeed, the climactic  revelation is quite as dramatic as any of Christie's i can remember  offhand.  Sadly, though, i am not left with the complete satisfaction she  usually gives me.	2000-08-28
US	51200408	R2GO5LV2MUEV7I	0684834863	364615368	Uncrowned King: The Life of Prince Albert	Books	4	32	38	N	N	Good covering of a neglected life.	I questioned myself before i picked up this book in the library; brought  up as a good Englishman, i already knew all i wanted or needed about the  Prince Consort, and was unimpressed with it, nor did i care to learn any  more.  Now i see i was quite correct in my questioning, and i'm afraid i  may have to change my long-held, and therefore cherished, beliefs about  him.  Darn intellectual honesty, anyway!  Weintraub's Albert was a  responsible, educated, thinking man, thrust into a situation both wonderful  and intolerable (his marriage and lack of acceptance in England,  respectively).  Weintraub shows him as having enjoyed the one side and,  through hard work and dedication, partially overcome the other.  One is  left to wonder, as Weintraub indeed does, what would the monarchy be today  had Albert lived as long as Victoria.  Surely there would be some  differences.  On the basis of this book, it is not fair to say (as a  previous reviewer did) that Albert laid the foundation for the pax  Britannica; he did, however, through his fecundity, insight into both  politics and industry, and though a great deal of hard work, aid the  shaping of Europe through the First World War.  As i look back now, it is  hard for me exactly to define just why i have disliked His Royal Highness;  i suspect it has to do with his rather poor treatment of his eldest son,  the Prince of Wales, which Weintraub does not gloss over, but implies was  deserved; also the wreck Victoria made of her life after he died, which  really can't be laid at his door; also, though i am probably of the last  generation to instinctively feel nothng good can come from Germany, the man  was a German (though not a Prussion, at least).  Two hundred plus years of  racial dislike are hard to overcome.  I would not say that i have yet  overcome them; Weintraub has helped me see with a clearer vision, though.	2000-08-24
US	51200408	R1XWR3CO34ALPM	0449213188	4218935	The Clairvoyant Countess (Madame Karitska)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Hard to classify, but great fun anyway.	Not exactly a series of short stores nor yet exactly a novel, this book is  the story of a clairvoyant and the way she worked with one particular  policeman, Lieutenant Pruden (prudent=sensible=skeptical?), who doesn't  know exactly how much he believes her, but is willing to work with her to  get results.  The small series of mysteries they work on overflow outside  one chapter apiece, but there is no one overarching plot, hence the  classification difficulty.  Once again Gilman has created if not believable  (i choose to see as fictional this kind of clairvoyance) at least very  attractive and readable characters.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	R41XDR2AM962G	0345320719	625741245	The Bicentennial Man and Other Stories	Books	3	2	6	N	N	&quot;Weaker&quot; Asimov collection.	Collection of short stories written in the late Sixties or early  Seventies.  Asimov reverts to a couple of his previous themes, settings,  and series here ~ several robot stories, for example ~ in fine style.  The  title story, i suppose it's the basis for the Robin Williams film i haven't  seen, is the rather unsatisfying telling of a robot's limiting itself ever  more narrowly in the search to become human; this has always, to my mind,  been one of the poorer stories in the collection:  Andrew's motivation is  not clear, the actions of the people around him are far more acceptable  than his; the ultimate definition of &quot;human&quot; as whatever the  World Legislature decrees is highly unimaginative and extremely unworthy of  the Good Doctor.  Of the other stories in the collection all please me to  one degree or another ~ as Asimov always does ~ though not all are all of  the same quality:  &quot;The Tercentenary Incident&quot; far outweighs  &quot;Stranger In Paradise&quot; and &quot;The Life And Times Of  Multivac&quot; &quot;Waterclap&quot;.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	RMQW9HICM6COE	0440228239	177625349	The Squire's Tale	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Easy read on Arthurian legends	A &quot;juvenile&quot; book ~ like no one else is allowd to read it if it's any good! ~ which retells a portion of the Arthurian legend from the  point of view of Sir Gawain's squire, Terence.  Happily it does not go to  the end of the legends, we are spared the degrading and sad spectacle of  the Round Table Fellowship, indeed all Camelot, disintegrating.  Morris has  rather drawn us a lighthearted sketch of the life in the early days of the  Table, when quests were still things to be sought after, not a rather  boring way of life.  Gawain is a friendly, down-to-Earth character who is  happy to take on Terence, though the latter has some mystery hanging over  him.  Kai, Arthur, and several of the other knights are drawn as real  people, including senses of humour about life.  Gawain himself is not above  play-acting in a good cause, nor does he scorn to follow his squire's  leading on occasion.  Should appeal to most youngsters who enjoy reading,  whether or not they know the old tales.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	R1MQLDYU3FY59N	0374522596	875149572	The Control of Nature	Books	4	65	66	N	N	WARNING:  Approach with care -- you'll be hooked.	A fairly detailed investigation and explanation of three locations where  Man is attempting to prevent the course of Nature.  The first, the attempt,  so far successful, to prevent the Mississippi from changing its exit to the  Gulf (it wants to go through the Atchafalaya River, substantially shorter  and more attractive to the water), which change would utterly negate the  entire economic geography of lower Louisiana.  The second, the use of  seawater pumped by the hundreds of thousands of gallons onto fresh, hot  lava, to prevent said lava from overrunning and destroying the harbour and  town of Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland.  The third, the ongoing attempt to  preserve Los Angeles from the self-destruction of the San Gabriel  Mountains.  All three goals are fully understandable in economic terms;  what is not so clear, at least with the first and third, is how long the  effort can be kept up.  McPhee makes a good case that in human times, not  geologic, Nature will win in both cases.  One leaves the book with a  feeling of excitement and pleasure in the Icelandic battle, a wonder at the  power of the Mississippi and the stubbornness of the Army Corps of  Engineers, and a sense of amazement at the futility and blindness of people  who continue to live under the San Gabriels and hold the City liable for  their foolish choices.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	R2ZS8PFJYCC9Z9	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Good story, but overly complex	The continuing story of Jack Ryan, now President of the USA, and the  trials thrown upon him by the leaders of the world.  Again, Clancy can  write a compelling novel, keeping track of his immense complexities with  ease, requiring his reader to follow to the bitter end to see the outcome.  The problem, again, arises in the very complexities he weaves:  Like life,  Clancy's novels have more people than can conveniently be kept track of,  and i am not one to set up a Rolodex file for the purpse of reading a book;  nor do i enjoy flipping back the pages i've read to rediscover who i'm  reading about; thus i find that all too often i have to read a sentence or  two of the new paragraph to be reminded just who the particular character  is, what their complaint about Ryan is, and what they are in the process of  doing about it.  All of which is not to say i dislike Clancy, just that  reading him takes a greater effort to keep track of characters than reading  anything less than the geneological lists in the book of Numbers.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	RSCQEESSRSP56	0345430727	546247864	Tales from the White Hart	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Science humour, a new genre?	A series of short stories, tales told in a bar (the White Hart) among a  group of scientists, writers, and laymen.  The central story-teller is one  Henry Purvis, an obnoxious fellow with a trick of pausing at the climax for  a new draught beer, whom no one has yet managed to prove a liar.  He tells  almost believable tales of science and wouldn't-it-be-nice science.  One  learns of a silencer that silences more than guns, a carnivorous orchid  with a secret, a ballistic computer with a sense of humour.  Much of the  delight in the tales arises from the fact that they were written in the  1950's, and it is amazing how much Clarke could see of the future.  I  suspect Clarke may have felt he'd written himself into a corner, because  the series of tales and the book end rather suddenly, with a hint for the  future but no real hope that Purvis will be back.  A delghtful find, to be  read by all who enjoy Clarke, bar stories, science fiction, and humour.	2000-08-19
US	51200408	R34CXJGVRCHF6L	0688053394	336392187	The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Great read, but a couple of flaws reduce its value.	A wonderful story, fascinating and well written, the tale of the founders,  insofar as any one family can be so called, of the Renaissence.  The Medici  have fascinated me ~ as no doubt many others ~ for a long time; i am  interested to learn as much of them as i can.  This book has arranged that.  I do have a few quibbles with it, though, which detracted from my  enjoyment of it.  First, it really ought to come equipped with a family  tree, chart, some kind of description to show the various relations between  the family members.  I was reduced to flipping back and forth, at times, to  try and remember who a certain person was.  Even Hibbert himself is not  entirely certain, it would seem, as he confuses Lorenzaccio di  Pierfrancesco and Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco, who have to be of separate  generations, if the rest of the line is to make sense.  Secondly, the  notes, while interesting, are also frustrating, as they give information  about the various palazzi and artworks of Florence; the information is  really intrusive in this manner: It would have been better if integrated  into the text ~ though this would be a different, lesser, book ~ or left  out entirely; Hibbert at times seems not to know if he is writing a history  or a guidebook  to Firenze -- the latter i didn't need.  In the main,  however, i really enjoyed this book, and would have liked it even a little  longer, had Hibbert given more information about the later generations it  would have been better (he doesn't even mention Leo XI, who was a Medici,  for example).	2000-08-19
US	51200408	R1BIGROQKE2R4E	0833590928	547529228	Tom's Midnight Garden (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Haven't read it?  You've lost a lot.	With the possible exception of Falkner's &quot;Moonfleet&quot; this is my all-time favourite children's book.  I loved it as a child, read it as an adolescent, enjoyed it as an adult, &amp; read it aloud to my children as a  father.  The story here is how a boy finds his way into the past of a house  he is visiting, and his growing fascination with the life of a little girl  in that past.  The style of writing is so matter of fact, i think i truly  believed as a child because there is no sense of &quot;look how cute this  idea is&quot; you often get in books of the sort.  The reader is invited to  fully participate in and identify with both Tom and Hattie, and their  growing friendship.  The climax of the book, as Tom discovers what has  truly been happening, never fails to move me to tears; just thinking about  Mrs. Bartholomew's line right now is tightening my throat.  Read this book.	2000-07-28
US	51200408	RSIX048HN87FO	0385332831	320776985	The Poyson Garden (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Historical fiction and murder mystery don't mix here.	Nice story of a murder plot woven around Elizabeth Tudor just before Mary I died and she ascended.  The characters are well-drawn, the plot is sufficiently complex and puzzling, and there is a nice amount of attention  paid to history and historical detail (no glaring, at least, anachronisms).  One gets a good idea of the frustration Elizabeth must have lived with:  Hemmed in by her guardians, unable to communicate with those she trusted to  advise her, unable to know fully whom to trust, liable to be taken back to  the Tower for plotting against her sister, and yet the heir presumptive and  potentially most powerful woman in Europe.  The plot, an attempt by a  hidden woman to poison all Boleyns (did you know it was Anne herself who  changed the spelling [but not the pronunciation, don't forget] from  &quot;Bullen?  Nor did i), including, of course, Elizabeth.  The princess  and a ragtag band of follwers she gathers must search out this poisoner and  stop her before she destroys them along with half of Kent.  Despite the  characters and the devious plot, the book does not have the ring of truth  for me; i only finished it because i became interested in the mystery, not  because i cared a whit about Elizabeth, though Ned and Meg are nicely  drawn, sympathetic.  Perhaps a danger of writing historical fiction ~  especially one so off the beaten track ~ is that your characters are  already known by your readers, and the known characters may not fit your  needs; i think this is what happened here:  I already know (for Harper's  purposes) too much about her heroine to believe all she writes.  If i look  at this as a mystery book it comes close to working for me; as historical  fiction, sadly, no.	2000-07-28
US	51200408	RXBTZKB5SCTT2	0515125512	135030774	Odds Against	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Francis Rides Again	Francis' third book, written back in the mid-Sixties, though still a great read (curious reference to The Beatles is the only jarring reminder of its time), and a wonderful example of how quickly Francis picked up his new  craft.  If he was as fluent, smooth, and skillful jockey as he is writer he  must, indeed, have been great.  This book first introduces Sid Halley, one  of Francis' two recurring heroes, the jockey-turned-detective with a  damaged left hand.  Halley has been drifting through life since his  career-ending injury; a further injury (caused by a bullet) and the not so  subtle intervention of his father-in-law bring a change to his attitude, a  radically different outlook, and a desire to work effectively and properly  at his new job.  He is badly frightened, and physically damaged ~ two  things Francis excells at writing, his fear, especially, is thoroughly  convincing ~ but succeeds in both defeating the baddies and renewing his  life.	2000-07-23
US	51200408	RDTE1B0PO19T3	0446315028	754388432	The Black Tower (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #5)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Suspense maybe rather than mystery.	Another James puzzler with twists in the telling as well as the tale.  Like that of &quot;Unsuitable Job for a Woman&quot; this book's plot is not a simple and straightforward murder mystery.  In fact, for a good portion  of the book one wonders if in fact there is a mystery, let alone a murder,  except that, this being a James' Dalgleish there must be.  Dalgleish has  been in hospital for suspected leukemia ~ thank goodness a misdiagnosis! ~  and, asked, plans to visit his father's old curate in Dorset during his  convalescence.  Father Michael Badderly is priest in residence at Toynton  Grange, a small (and getting smaller) home for terminally ill patients.  There are a number of varyingly sinister characters living in and around  the Grange, and it is in the interplay of these people that the story  unfolds.  Suffice it to say that, by the end, Dalgleish's intuition is  proven again, he rescinds his decision to leave the Force, and the evil ~  if not the foolish ~ are punished.	2000-07-23
US	51200408	R2HWND00YDDRXF	0002227541	290521627	Floodgate	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Formulaic MacLean by a tired author.	Formulaic MacLean story.  Starts with Amsterdam airoport flooded, as a way of getting the readers' attention, moves to further floods (dikes blasted) in the Netherlands and threats of even more, as a way of drawing attention  to the terrorists' demands.  The hero is a typical MacLean hero, just a  little too good, fluent in languages, explosives, criminal behaiviour,  organisation, self-confidence, yet still not the top man in his  organisation (the Amsterdam police force); a natural gentleman, concerned  for and afraid of his sister.  The ladies in the novel are simply the most  beautiful available or imaginable; and perfect ladies.  The government  figures are, except for one, dolts and incapable of understanding a simple  statement.  The terrorists are, in this case, fighting for a worthy  ulitmate cause, though their methods are to be despised and themselves  destroyed.  Just happens, though, that the leader is a son of an English  earl and, in his own way, to be pitied also.  It is as though MacLean got  tired of writing, towards the end of his career, the original, inventive,  and clever plots such as &quot;H.M.S. Ulysses&quot; and &quot;The Guns of  Navarone&quot; and instead took the most successful portions of some of his  other tales and fit them into a basic plot outline.  Sad to say about  MacLean, whom i loved at one stage in my life, reading everything i could  find of his, but this is nowhere near his peak ability.	2000-07-23
US	51200408	R1G07BIKLMD7BW	0920663060	204247297	Spinners Inlet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lovely scenes from the Gulf Islands	Lovely book i've read many times, usually a few snippets at a time.  Short (2-4 pages) tales of life on a small unnamed Gulf Island (think, between Vancouver and Vancouver Island, BC).  Life is slower, but just as  complicated as on the Mainland.  The chief delight of the book is in  Hunter's wonderful depiction of the characters ~ using the word in its  best, fullest sense ~ who inhabit Spinner's Inlet; these characters include  several Spinners, as one might guess, and a number of other stock  productions such as the Brigadier, the Vicar, the local curmudgeon, the  horsey woman.  The joy arises, though, in the interplay of these characters  and others, perhaps less common, the simple descriptions of the Inlet's  lifestyle, the easily shown lessons for living well amongst our fellows  which Hunter brings to the tales.  There is a gentle humour in the tone of  almost every page, and a great love for the places which inspired the  Inlet.	2000-07-23
US	51200408	R38P8184YV982B	0399145621	830818607	SECOND WIND	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Classic Francis, quite up to speed	The lastest (please, not &quot;last&quot;) Francis.  Once again, Francis delivers a story within his regular boundaries ~ vaguely related to horse-racing, well researched in at least one new area, an enviable  character who suffers physically and emotionally, a beautiful and competant  female minor character to provide some sexual interest/relief ~ a story  this time about meteorology, more specifically, about weather, hurricanes,  along with secrets, fear, death and life.  In short, a typcal, and  typically well written, Francis.  The research that Francis appears to put  in for each of his novels is impressive; so is the ease with which he  allows it to be used:  One leaves his books having learnt, but never  feeling taught.  In fact, the only quibble i have with him is a quirk i've  noticed in every book he's written:  In describing how something is, he  uses the imperfect (a past) tense (&quot;There were well over two hundred  weather stations covering the British Isles...&quot; one assumes there  still are) when the present would be preferable.  This quibble, however,  other than noting itself in my mind, does not matter; it may even be simply  a matter of personal English usage, anyway.  &quot;Second Wind&quot; tells  the story of Dr. Perry Stuart, a physicist turned meteorologist, who is  led, gradually, by his web of friends, into a world of violence both  natural and human (the interior of a hurricane and a conspiracy of dealers  in death).	2000-07-23
US	51200408	R3CZIMKS8VJ5N	0446315176	817200305	An Unsuitable Job for a Woman	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Detective Writing at its Best	An excellent thriller/mystery with a twist.  With several twists.  The hero of some others of James' books, the poet/superintendent Adam Dalgliesh, apart from a brief and probably unnecessary appearance at the  end of the book, is merely a brooding presence over the plot.  Dalgliesh  inspired Cordelia Gray's dead detective agency partner in every way, and  his remebered quotes give Gray the ability to uncover the solution to the  problem laid before her:  Why did the young son of a very successful  scientist drop out of Cambridge and commit suicide?  Every character is  coherent and supportable in their actions and words; every line and thread  of the plot is believable and woven inexorably into the whole.  This is  detective writing at its best.	2000-07-16
US	51200408	R14FNN2T1R34JJ	0425168220	383974610	State of Siege (Tom Clancy's Op-Center, Book 6)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Too much pontification for an action book.	Another in the Op-Center series; the characters seemed a little realer this time around ~ the protagonist especially, Paul Hood, perhaps because he has problems other than just the terrorists in the United Nations'  building, NYC.  The philosophy behind this tale is most difficult to  swallow, and yet it is hard to accurately show the points with which one  disagrees.  The diplomacy of the United Nations is bound to fail in the  face of terrorists who are not interested in negotiating ~ the heart of  diplomacy ~ but in stating their demands and enforcing them.  How then,  other than the violent end Hood and Op-Center bring about, can such a seige  be ended.  Perhaps the most disagreeable moments in the book are those in  which the authors pontificate and generalise ~ through their  action-oriented soldier heroes ~ that the United Nations is a useless  organisation the USA would be better off without ~ a sentiment i heartily  despise.  The plot is thick; the action is quick; the blood is spilt; both  good and evil suffer; yet, at the end, one is left with the feeling that,  however plausible a scenerio State of Siege paints, events wouldn't unfold  in this fashion.	2000-07-16
US	51200408	RNMHRBN7T8E1J	0312205503	529909939	Hemingway's Chair	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lovely, Light, Laughable	A delightful, light-hearted tale of a rather unusual Post Office Counters,  Ltd., employee's search for meaning in life.  He seeks it in the abandoment  of his personality for Papa Hemingway's, to be accomplished by the  true-fan's acquisition of any and every artifact which could conceivably be  linked to the master.  His search is complicated and eventually eased by an  American Hemingway scholar who despises rather than admires her subject; he  is also intimately bound up with a modern Post Office Manager (what we used  to call a Postmaster), and his schemes for personal success, wealth, and  influence.  Martin, the protagonist, appears to be the most insubstantial  character in the book to begin with; he ends up, however, having the  greatest impact on life ~ and the lives of others.  Palin has created a  wonderful story with sympatheitc characters ~ proving that he can write of  (almost) normal people in ordinary situations, rather than the utterly  abnormal of Python and extraordinary of his travel books, without losing  any of his humour.	2000-07-16
US	51200408	R32UNZXQJU2QKX	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Another Rowling Triumph	A longer, better, stronger, at least as fun, Harry Potter book, with more excitement, another puzzle, and a little more revelation fo why Harry is so special in the world of magic.  Voldemort himself makes a much stronger  appearance in this book than he has before, and his battle with Harry is as  tense to read as Harry's bit of trouble with the basilisk in the  &quot;Chamber of Secrets&quot;.  Harry, Ron, Hermione and friends seem to  be growing up a little quicker than they ought with the timing of the books  ~ in fact, one of the few complaints i had about &quot;Goblet&quot; is that  Harry seems to vary in age from thirteen to fifteen, in rather uncertain  fashion, within the single year the book encompasses.  Certainly the  preoccupations of teenage years, most especially the opposite gender, have  taken a more prominent position in this book than previously.  Once again,  Rowling's characters are, within their world, entirely believable in their  actions and reactions, both as predictable and unpredictable as real  people, and this is, for me, the truest test of a book.  Unlike many other  fads and must-haves ~ Pok&eacute;mon springs to mind ~ the latest Harry Potter  book is worth all the kerfuffle and fuss it has caused.	2000-07-16
US	51200408	R7N8JTXQRV3IY	0851993621	417006078	Livestock, Ethics and Quality of Life (Cabi)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating Questions; What Are Your Answers?	Thought-provoking&quot; is probably the best way to describe this book.  A series of papers, primarily those presented at a 1998 symposium as a part of a Congress on Animal Production, each of which present some of the  questions raised by many of the new and newer methods of production of  animal protein for food.  Essentially the questions raised revolve about  the axis of, &quot;What is it ethical to do in order to allow ten billion  people to eat?&quot;  Several different perspectives are used as starting  points, though the primary basis is that of Religion (abstract or  particular).  Answers are not all provided; these are left as an exercise  for the reader.  Though the book and the papers contained therein have  their origins with professional ethicists, geneticists, and Animal  Scientists, the layman can read and enjoy at least parts ~ large parts, i  believe ~ of it.  I suspect this would be a fine supplemental textbook for  studies in either Ethics or Animal Production, or even other, less closely  related science disciplines.  Nevertheless, it does not &quot;feel&quot;  like a pure textbook; i read it for interest's sake, and enjoyed it.	2000-06-27
US	51200408	RFEPMP67YVB1I	0449149560	64821841	Mrs. Pollifax Pursued	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Not Gilman's greatest, i'm afraid	I had read a Mrs. Pollifax novel before and not enjoyed it at all.  This is the first time i've tried one after reading two other Gilman novels, and i expected to like it.  I do.  It is a funny thing, however, that i do not  enjoy it as much as her other, non-series novels.  Somehow it is a little  forced, a bit as thought she feels she really needs to write this to  satisfy the readers who love Mrs. Pollifax.  It is far less believable a  story than &quot;Thale's Folly&quot; was, for instance, though the  characters are, perhaps, less exotic than &quot;Thale's&quot;.  There is  something about the set-up, some fashion in which Gilman is saying, &quot;I  know none of this is at all true to life, but here you are ~ you wanted it  ~ hope you like it.&quot;  Several of the characters ~ Kadi, Willie, Boozy  Tim, Mrs. Pollifax herself ~ are nice, believable, real even; it must be  the situation they find themselves in which displeases me.  The plot relies  on coincidence too much for its resolution, and does not carry the ring of  truth a perect novel makes echo in my mind.  Looking back onto it, i feel  that all it is is some real charactes interacting on a cardboard plot; i  was never drawnn in the way i want to be by any book i read.  Nevertheless,  a fun read; i will try another Mrs. Pollifax, to be sure ~ along with any  non-Pollifax Gilmans i can find.	2000-06-27
US	51200408	R340A5DGWHTRW5	0380725290	412245515	Mennyms in the Wilderness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent sequel (sp?) to Mennyms	Read aloud.  Waugh's second book about the Mennyms, living ragdolls with all too human characteristics.  This time the Mennyms lifeis threatened by the local government's plan to tear down the Grove for a new road.  Albert Pond, a human relative of Aunt Kate, the dolls' creator, is drawn into their lives, with difficulty on both sides, and helps to preserve their secret.  A lot of fun to read aloud (or silently).  Waugh writes well; having been a teacher she recognises good writing, i suspect, and is a wonderful developer of character.  There are a couple of moments in the plot where i feel it develops a little less strongly than it might -- Albert's interest in another, newfound, relative is one -- but the overall story is a delight.	2000-06-19
US	51200408	R71A3SH0O1JEI	0670820555	532141883	Spy Catcher: The Candid Autobiography of a Senior Intelligence Officer	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fascinating search for the Fifth Man, true life intelligence	Story of British spies ~ MI5 in particular ~ from one who livedthrough it.  Wright was the first scientist to join MI5, the domesticspy-catchers, and led the way for others.  The bulk of the book is taken up with the search for the Fifth Man ~ Wright's candidate is Roger Hollis, who was head of MI5 during the early Sixties ~ a well-hidden Soviet mole like Philby and his ilk.  Reading it, at times, it appears that Wright considers himself responsible for every innovation in spy technology during the '50s and '60s, but if you can get over his view of himself, the book becomes a fascinating read, on a par with anything Le Carr&eacute; wrote.  As far as the Fifth Man goes, my mind is still open, but Wright gives excellent cause to suspect that Hollis probably was at least bent, if not broken.	2000-06-19
US	51200408	RLW7UELPHVA3C	0449206211	630709492	Murder on Embassy Row (Capital Crime Mysteries)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Very disappointing to the mystery lover.	What is it about the British that has so soured Truman?  I have not read a book by her in which any of the British characters were nice.  Here the prime nasties are all British, from the murder victim ~ the Ambassador ~ to  the planner and executer of the cover-up and the people who end up giving  our protagonist clues.  The only Britons of any attraction are incidentals  who wander in and out of the book in a page or two.  Sadly, this is not my  only complaint about the book:  I don't like Truman's insistance on some  details ~ locations, specific stores, clothing ~ which she uses to  establish her credibility.  Nor has she invented an even plausible plot ~  the British Ambassador to Iran knew weeks beforehand about the Ayatollah's  takeover in '79, including the plan to capture the American embassy, and  the only use he made of the information was to plan a smuggling operation?  Please.  Stick to biography.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	RUOBDRUII6GGV	0425093255	973285060	Five Little Pigs (Also published as Murder In Retrospect)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	As Always, Christie Pleases; With Style, Too	A murder sixteen years ago, five possible living suspects, a convicted, dead, yet claiming innocence woman, and Poirot's little grey cells.  Different from Christie's usual plot twists and suspense-building  techniques (no further deaths, for example, of people who ought to have  spoken out because they know something); as in her &quot;Cards On The  Table&quot; Poirot's deductions must come solely from the suspects'  statements and memories (with the addition of expected deficiencies after  sixteen years).  Naturally, he performs as required and proves the convict  innocent.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R1P948XQX2BV69	014024204X	175734036	Life And Opinions Of Tristram Shandy Tie In (BBC)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;How to write a novel about nothing&quot;	What an amazingly funny book.  This is why classics are classics ~ they endure because they are worth preserving.  This novel about the process of writing a novel, or rather an autobiography, is utterly fresh andclever  today, more so, even, than when it was first written.  The fact that the  title is entirely meaningless, the protagonist barely appears in the book,  the plot is meandering to the point of nonexistence ~ all these add to  one's enoyment of this monumental exploration of what can and cannot  meaningfully be put between covers.  Without doubt i shall return to this  book in years to come ~ if i am granted them on this earth ~ and find more  enjoyment and amusement in it.  Hard to believe this classic could be out  of print in the USA.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	RCB14M6CWI2XN	1853261068	735425782	Moonfleet (Wordsworth's Children's Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Is there a better read-aloud?  I think not.	This book hung over me in memory for twenty years or more.  It was read to us by my mother when i was 11 or 12; i remembered the story vaguely and the title wrongly.  I had tried desultorily to find it over the years,  unsuccessfully.  Now, having reread it, aloud, to my children, i affirm  that this is one of the finest children's adventure stories ever written.  It out-treasures &quot;Treasure Island&quot; and any other of the same  genre.  The sad sacrifice at the end had all three of us in tears as i read  it ~ i scarce could make out the words on the page.  Elzevir Block is one  of children's literature's finest heroes; a most honourable, strong, wise,  loveable, faithful, and ~ despite some of his actions ~ good man.  John  Trenchard, the young protagonist, grows up, learns of life most awfully,  and is rewarded with the love of a true woman ~ the daughter of his enemy,  the book's first villain.  I truly cannot over-recommend this book; it is  hard to understand how it could be allowed to fall out of print, and why it  is not more widely renowned and suggested by librarians, teachers, &amp;  parents.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R26PDUNLJIE9A3	0345432967	140156191	Thale's Folly	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A fun, fast read	Gilman can write.  This is a wonderfully inventive story of a blocked writer's coming of age in western Massachussetts, while attempting to do a little research for his corporate father.  The characters Andrew Thale  discovers living ~ squatting ~ in his father's property are strange,  unusual, leftovers, curious, relics ~ use whatever adjectives you prefer,  since Gilman has come up with unique people again.  Thale, without planning  it, though the reader can predict it, becomes a part of the community on  the property, and through his experiences there is redeemed from the stale,  corporate writing life he had found himself squeezed into.  The plot, for  all its inventiveness, has a couple of predictable, mawkish moments ~ the  reunion of Thale's separated parents immediately springs to mind ~ but they  do not detract from the overall beauty of this book.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R24VNGH7MJMX5B	0316548189	848381140	Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fascinating autobiography	Wonderful story of the man's life, much of which i didn't, of course, previously know.  He is occasionally a little more defensive ~ explaining his position or actions ~ than i would choose, still, it is his own  autobiography, and he can choose how to present himself; and not quite as  able to explain his motivations, his changing motivations, as would have  been useful.  Philosophically, i do disagree with him about the use of and  the need for violence in the struggle for freedom; it is easy to do that,  however, from a relatively free country (the US), being one of the  priviliged minority in the world. His openness to accept even those utterly  opposed to him certainly shows him to be a singular character.  As with  most autobiographies, how he says it reveals more about himself than what  he actually says; it was delightful, interesting, and unusual, to read this  and see underlying the words the accepting, open, and essentially honest  man.  Surely those who know Mandela are honoured to do so.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R3PRJOGEY9E51R	0425093255	973285060	Five Little Pigs (Also published as Murder In Retrospect)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	As Always, Christie Pleases; With Style, Too	A murder sixteen years ago, five possible living suspects, a convicted, dead, yet claiming innocence woman, and Poirot's little grey cells.  Different from Christie's usual plot twists and suspense-building  techniques (no further deaths, for example, of people who ought to have  spoken out because they know something); as in her &quot;Cards On The  Table&quot; Poirot's deductions must come solely from the suspects'  statements and memories (with the addition of expected deficiencies after  sixteen years).  Naturally, he performs as required and proves the convict  innocent.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R1M9HUY4EN7AT5	0449212750	270996775	Murder in the CIA (Capital Crimes)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	All right to skim.	Fairly well written, though a little over-confusing ~ like the life, i daresay, of the protagonist ~ account of the investigation of the murder of a CIA courier.  Neither a straightforward murder mystery, nor an entirely  convincing account of the secret life.  Nevertheless, a good read, and  worth at least skimming to the finish.  The protagonist is a young woman of  somewhat loose morals ~ encouraged by her employer ~ who seeks to discover  the meaning behind and avenge her best friend's death.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R1WSMTTBGLH9ND	0590205242	954920621	True North	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Quick, different, accurate, &amp; enjoyable.	The story, told from two people's point of view, of a slave's escape from Virginia to Canada in 1858 along the Underground Railroad.  Told from the perspective of the slave, Afrika, and a young girl who helps her from  Boston to the border, Lucy, this is a fascinating, accurate, and well-told  picture of the way the Railroad worked.  Not everyone is who they seem,  even in Boston, and Lucy's discovery that her Pap ~ grandfather ~ is  occasionally a conductor is the least of the surprises.  A delightful book,  written for early teens, but certainly enjoyable by adults also.	2000-06-18
US	51200408	R3FVRI3QO6XTFJ	0553566075	285749438	Dead Man's Island (Henrie O)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not the Christie replacement her publisher would like	Again, as with the last Hart i read, this is a good book, but there is something about it that i just do not like.  In this case, i think, it has to do with the struture of the end:  Henrie O is left, after all the action  is over, writing to no purpose except directly to us, to unravel the final  twist of the plot (and it's a doozy; Hart can develop surprising twists, no  argument there).  I don't like that feeling of being addressed directly  (just as it is annoying when characters in films talk to the camera),  unless it has been legitimised earlier in the book; in this case, it  happens solely at the end, and with the specific purpose of surprising us.  Secondly, and equally disappointingly, the twist is flawed:  Henrie O's  final solution is out of character for the person involved and is not an  acceptable or believable answer to the problems set in the mystery. Hart is  not by any means a replacement for Agatha Chistie -- her plotting is not  sound enough -- but she is a good, quick, acceptable read for people who  miss the Queen.	2000-04-07
US	51200408	R2YG77EBETLJUQ	0816411786	747955820	Rome and Canterbury Through Four Centuries: A Study of the Relations Between the Church of Rome and the Anglican Churches, 1530-1973	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scholarly, detailed...and rather interesting.	Gives history of relations between the Churches of England and Rome, from the beginnings until 1980 (i have the second edition, by Pawley and his wife).  Annoying at times, because it assumes knowledge i don't possess  (fluency in French, certain historical episodes), and because it sticks  strictly to its purpose, refusing to be sidetracked by any of numerous  tempting side paths.  Nevertheless, a fascinating book, very detailed (at  times), and clearly accurate (or a remarkable fraud) where it speaks.  Slow  reading, because of the detail and the convolutions of history.	2000-03-29
US	51200408	R1DILHOVB5NTY9	0671826662	959242361	Edward the King Vol. 1: Prince of Hearts	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Leading, worth reading, Butler's succeeding	A novel of the life of Edward VII, it is nicely written in that it takes your attention and makes you continue.  I found it interesting, though i don't know how much is novelisation and how much is fact, as i know little  about Edward (Prince of Wales in this; Volume II sees him as King), and  cannot judge accuracy.  I suppose the best compliment i can pay is that i  now want to find a true biography of Edward and read that.	2000-03-29
US	51200408	R23WCS6UER0CHM	0449221113	710968987	Smokescreen	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Another top-level Francis	Francis offers his usual fare:  The same protagonist with a new name; a plot of investigation, discovery, physical pain and mental exercises; a supporting cast of believable characters who act in supportable,  self-interested, and logical ways.  All of which is not to say anything  bad; i love to read Francis, and do so when looking for a vicarious thrill  and a light read.  The protagonist in this one is Edward &quot;Link&quot;  Lincoln, an action picture actor ~ the sort who might star in movies made  of Francis' books ~ who goes to South Africa for a little off-set  investigation.  At least, he thinks that's why he's gone there; he's  actually gone to be killed.  In a post-Apartheid world the picture of South  Africa is rather sweet; i would guess Francis had some co&ouml;peration from the  government in return for his portrayal of the country.	2000-03-29
US	51200408	R1G0G2FSJ7U8UF	0312055064	517614035	Say It With Poison	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Soulless Village Backdrop for Murder	Fun murder mystery; like many others, not altogether believable in the real world, but entirely cohesive in its own.  The heroine, Merry Mitchell, has a true past we learn about and learn to care about.  The characters are not, for the most part, caricatures or stereotypical but drawn from life,  believable.  Definitely a possibility as the first novel of a series;  whether Granger can continue the writing of believable characters we care  about ~ especially Mitchell and Alan Markby, the police representative ~  remains to be seen.  I hope so.	2000-03-24
US	51200408	R1SCCYGWK0BYXW	0441810764	163941388	Time Enough for Love	Books	3	0	0	N	N	One of Heinlein's better ~ not best ~ books.	Story of Lazarus Long, the mutant member of the Howard Families, the longest-lived man ever, the opener of the universe to mankind.  Really  about three or four plots in one novel (Heinlein was never loath to add a  few thousand words to his tales); the outer plot is ~ nearly ~ just a  convention to give shape to a series of short stories.  Several of those  short stories could easily have stood on their own ~ The Man Who Was Too  Lazy To Fail, The Story Of 'Dorable Dora, for example ~ in fact, might have  been better that way.  The characters are both likeable and obnoxious; the  views of Long are very closely those of Heinlein, as far as can be told,  and are, as Heinlein's, not especially attractive to me.  Nevertheless,  he's an amusing rascal inhabiting a fun book.	2000-03-24
US	51200408	R261X1SWCV4948	0380790025	347508466	Death in Lovers' Lane (Henrie O)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good, but not the highest quality	Complex plot (three mysteries, no four, three old, one current).  The reporter/teacher/sleuth Henrie O succeeds in solving all four fairly satisfactorily.  The story-telling is excellent; the actual plot, events,  and twists are rather far-fetched.  Hard to imagine that one journalism  school student and one teacher could solve three mysteries which police  couldn't (though, truthfully, one was solved, and one was officially  covered up ~ covered up by officials, anyway), getting murdered and solving  the murder respectively in the process.  Still, one could probably make  that complaint about many mystery novels, including the Mistress, Agatha  Christie, to whom Carolyn Hart is unwisely compared in a series of quoted  reviews which form the back cover blurb.	2000-03-24
US	51200408	RQIX2V6LBMEKA	0684810395	316670348	Pretend You Don't See Her	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Race the author to the finish	As always, Clark carries the reader along, the suspense constantly building with the skill she has shown since &quot;Where Are The Children&quot;.  Her characters are believable, particularly in the  suffering the protagonist undergoes in the witness relocation programme.  The problem arises in the last couple or so chapters:  It is as though  Clark suddenly became bored with her characters or plot and rushed to the  climax and resolution in order to get it over with.  I was actually  surprised when i discovered that i had only ten or so pages left to read,  since i felt that, in order to continue at the same pace and style she had  been using, she needed another thirty or thirty-five pages.  Good book, but  disappointing ending.	2000-03-02
US	51200408	RA2RVNA126QRX	0451523814	817574880	Captains Courageous (Signet Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another classic lives up to the name	I know more than i did about fishing the Grand Banks; more about the interactions of men in a small space; more about what makes a boy a man than before i read the book.  Kipling may be a little clich&eacute;d (or people may feel that way about him), but he knew people and what makes them who  they are.  Every one of the characters on the boat is a real, singular  person; though you may not understand all they say, you know what they mean  and why.  An excellent adventure story; more than just a sea yarn, though a  fine one too.	2000-02-28
US	51200408	R23RS8YSAPQCXQ	0771011180	983643442	How the Heather Looks: A Joyous Journey to the British Sources of Children's Books	Books	2	12	20	N	N	A classic?  Ultimately unsatisfying.	I wanted to like How The Heather Looks, really i did.  For all her alleged prowess as a story-teller though, Bodger was unable to fully engage my attention.  Her writing style came between us, as did certain aspects of  her story.  On a trip to discover the landscape behind certain childrens  classics, her family was curiously uninformed about where they were and  what they were missing.  One becomes tired of the phrase, &quot;Later we  found out...&quot; or &quot;If only we had known...&quot;.  We are treated  to a detailed explanation of how much her family knows about Gypsies, but  we look in vain for that information when it would be appropriate; instead  we are told of another castle passed by.  I was sadly disappointed by the  lack of information at the bottom of the story.	1999-12-24
US	51200408	R3JBY01AFFVZ4V	0899662986	857491176	The Little Black Sambo Story Book	Books	4	42	47	N	N	Reflects your own attitudes?	A wonderful book ~ loved it as a child, had been afraid it's completely out of print.  The story &amp; pictures appear racist to those who find racism in Dr. Dolittle or Huck Finn.  This is surely a relection of your  own characteristics, not the book itself.  Yes, it was written  (well-written, i might add) at a time when my people (i am English) treated  others as lesser people; the story, however, does nothing of the sort  (unless you feel the treament of the tigers is wrong...?).  My children  will be given this book, and the chance to love it.  Thank goodness it's  still in print!	1999-06-17
