US	51218362	R2WF7X7JSXPYM6	1550226649	252686129	Traveling Music : The Soundtrack to My Life and Times	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An interesting individual	I've admired Neil Peart for years, not only because he's the amazing drummer of an excellent band, but because he's such an interesting individual as well. And not only is he the writer of a couple of bestsellers, but he's the group lyricist also, an unusual duty for a drummer. Neil's the type of person one might think lives an existence of perfection, bordering unadulterated fantasy, until one learns of the tragedy that had so rudely entered into his life a while back. Losing a spouse and a child within a year of each other is more than enough for anyone to have to experience. Life holds the intricate ability to shine brightly one day, but cast absolute darkness the next. It's good to see that Neil was eventually able to get his life back together, and new love into it as well. He's definitely a survivor.<br /><br />`Traveling Music' speaks a little of that adjustment, where his earlier book, `Ghost Rider', had left off. But this story is more about his life between stage shows, and what he does to occupy himself after the music's over. Neil captivatingly describes his motorcycle jaunts across America, Africa as well. His keen judgment has taught him that roughing it can bring him to respect the good life, when he returns to it, even more. It's amazing that he opts to sit atop his bike instead of riding in the band bus or airplane, and sometimes takes it upon himself to travel to the next show.<br /><br />Viewing the book before purchasing it, I immediately discovered how interesting it would be to read about an individual such as Neil, talking about the CDs in his stereo while driving around in his new sports car. I wish more professional musicians would do that, and provide us with their opinions on the music of others as they live their lives.<br /><br />I only had a couple of problems with the book. At one point, when Neil spoke of a fellow traveler, and how unintelligent he perceived the man to be ... I had trouble with that. He belittled him because of his blatant opinion on homosexuality. Granted, the individual he described did come across as a tad slow witted, but I feel that people should be more tolerant of other people's beliefs and opinions, especially when religion is involved. We all have a right to our own beliefs, and everybody should respect that.<br /><br />The other thing was the music Neil spoke of, and played in his car stereo. I enjoyed it when he talked of great talent that often went unnoticed, or unappreciated, such as Vertical Horizon and the Tragically Hip, especially the latter, as I'm a big fan of the Hip, and have been for years. He spoke of, and played many CDs of Frank Sinatra. In fact, he went on and on about Old Blue Eyes, and others as well, such as the boy band, 98°, Madonna, and the Beach Boys. He also wrote of performers I enjoy a lot, such as The Who, Linkin Park, Coldplay, and Jeff Buckley. I just couldn't help feeling, especially because he's such a talented musician from a progressive rock band, that he pays way too much attention to pop music. His taste came across as somewhat shallow to me. Though there's nothing wrong with the entertainers he spoke of, he didn't seem to be aware of the fact that there's so much real talent out there today, extraordinarily deep talent. Neil appears to be missing the boat on it all. Madonna? C'mon Neil, what about Sarah McLachlan, Norah Jones, Dianna Krall? Oh ... They're not Pop. Though all music can be considered traveling music, Neil's selection is more what one might hear on an AM radio, not the diverse CD player of an alleged tasteful, progressive rock musician.<br /><br />I did find it quite interesting, though, to read about his admiration for the drumming of Keith Moon, Buddy Rich, and others. But what about the drumming of Matt Cameron, Matt Sorum, Steve Gadd, Dan Gottlieb, etc.?<br /><br />But all things considered, the book was a fairly good read. It made me look forward to the next Rush concert all the more, and seeing an awesome band once again, whose members work together as a fine-tuned machine, even though the drummer doesn't appear to have much to do with the other members once the show is over.a fine-tuned machine, even though the drummer doesn't appear to have much to do with the other members once the show is over.	2004-10-14
US	51218362	RE4BPXVCMJ42	0743244230	927492614	Take a Walk on the Dark Side: Rock and Roll Myths, Legends, and Curses	Books	3	22	28	N	N	A bit of a stretch ... but interesting all the same.	R. Gary Patterson's book, \\"Take A Walk On The Dark Side - Rock And Roll Myths, Legends, And Curses\\", interested me enough just from viewing the title. I've always been interested in myths, legends, and the occult anyway.<br /><br />Getting into it, I found that much of the content was quite far-fetched, a real stretch of the imagination to say the least. Nevertheless, it was entertaining all the same.<br /><br />It didn't take long for me to notice the book's problems. The professionalism commonly displayed by reputable publishers was lacking profusely. It appeared throughout that they didn't bother taking the time to edit, for errors in the text were plentiful. Inaccuracies don't always bother me, though, as grammatical mistakes are often imperceptible within a good read. However, the style of the book was annoying in places. The author often repeated information as if it were never written before. In other words, instead of throwing in something like: `as I had mentioned earlier', or, `referring back to', the author merely reiterated throughout.<br /><br />I did find the subject matter on the Buddy Holly curse, Robert Johnson, The Allman Brothers Band, Aleister Crowley, and Jimmy Page and Led Zeppelin to be quite interesting, even though I knew most of it already. You'd have to have recently climbed out from beneath a rock and heard your first rock and roll song to find these stories unfamiliar. However, the information on numerology, especially that of John Lennon and the number 9, is fascinating. But most of the crazy legends and curses can be taken with a grain of salt, because the author often gives the impression he had way too much time on his hands. The endless section on Jim Morrison could be abbreviated, as it seems the whole concept of the book is forgotten and overshadowed by what turns into a Morrison biography.<br /><br />I often thought the author attempted to convince the reader of the legitimacy, or even the existence, of much of the content, even though the opposite was implied. But when telling the tale of the phallic symbol found on early covers (keep in mind I'm talking about the VHS *cover* here, not the actual film) of Disney's `The Little Mermaid', he denounced the finding as untrue, a figment of imagination. I've seen a few old VHS covers of 'The Little Mermaid', and I know he's wrong; the symbol is there in plain sight (not on newer covers of the same). It's kind of ironic that after so much hyperbole he then criticizes something that's actually true. (In fact, in Snope's website, the cover's phallic symbol is there for anyone to view.) Though this isn't much, and it has nothing to do with the book's musical content, the moral of the story is that one shouldn't believe in a myth, legend, or curse, until one knows for a fact it's true. The rest makes for fine fiction. This book is proof of that.<br /><br />All things considered, I love reading about rock and roll and its hype. Consider the content to be all in good fun, because that's what it is.ied. But when telling the tale of the phallic symbol found on early covers (keep in mind I'm talking about the VHS *cover* here, not the actual film) of Disney's `The Little Mermaid', he denounced the finding as untrue, a figment of imagination. I've seen a few old VHS covers of 'The Little Mermaid', and I know he's wrong; the symbol is there in plain sight (not on newer covers of the same). It's kind of ironic that after so much hyperbole he then criticizes something that's actually true. (In fact, in Snope's website, the cover's phallic symbol is there for anyone to view.) Though this isn't much, and it has nothing to do with the book's musical content, the moral of the story is that one shouldn't believe in a myth, legend, or curse, until one knows for a fact it's true. The rest makes for fine fiction. This book is proof of that.     All things considered, I love reading about rock and roll and its hype. Consider the content to be all in good fun, because that's what it is.	2004-09-10
US	51218362	R2WE1U3ZJIPDUJ	0879306394	370636413	Roy Buchanan: American Axe	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	The story of a true master.	I was about fourteen years old when first exposed to the innovative guitar playing of Roy Buchanan. I knew even back then how skillful he was, yet dissimilar from his peers. It was a PBS special on television. I sat mesmerized and frozen while listening to the sweet, steel guitar-like sounds of his Telecaster guitar for the first time. Hearing the beautiful, yet melancholy melodies of 'The Messiah Will Come Again', 'Sweet Dreams', and others still echo in my mind 30 years later.<br />'Roy Buchanan: American Axe', by Phil Carson, is a special biography of a special person. The book takes the reader on a journey through the guitarist's childhood straight through to his days as a journeyman guitarist, a man haunted by the same demons that haunt many an artist and musician, especially blues and rock guitar players it seems.<br />Carson tells the story of a warm night in June of '72 when an ordinary, mellow man first headlined to a full house in New York City's Carnegie Hall. Backed by his band, the Snakestretchers, Roy stepped up to the mic and began reciting in a soft drawl: \\"Just a smile, just a glance ... The Prince of Darkness, he just walked past ...\\" You know the rest. His solo then rang out through the hall in crystal clarity. The audience left awestruck at the end of the show, knowing they'd witnessed a guitar great for the first time.<br />Roy's life was cut short; only God knows why. But at least he was able to leave us an amazing legacy of recordings. He was an incredible blues player. This book is for the fans of Roy, and for those looking forward to learning about the life of the guitar legend himself. For those who have yet to get into him, start here as well ... while listening to a CD or two of his music. As great as his recordings were, though, it was almost impossible for producers to catch him in the right essence. Not only did they have difficulty choosing the proper material for him and his band to record, but Roy was always best in the live club setting as opposed to the studio. His earliest studio albums were his best, as they were raw and untainted. Try 1972's 'Roy Buchanan', or 1973's 'Second Album'. 'Sweet Dreams - The Anthology' is a good compilation, too.<br />This is an excellent book for those who love the guitar, and also for those who want to learn more about one of its true masters. 'Roy Buchanan: American Axe' is a receptive and comprehensive biography.setting as opposed to the studio. His earliest studio albums were his best, as they were raw and untainted. Try 1972's 'Roy Buchanan', or 1973's 'Second Album'. 'Sweet Dreams - The Anthology' is a good compilation, too.<br />This is an excellent book for those who love the guitar, and also for those who want to learn more about one of its true masters. 'Roy Buchanan: American Axe' is a receptive and comprehensive biography.	2004-02-21
US	51218362	RMZB45V1O7GXT	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting ... but extremely farfetched.	Although this novel was good enough to arouse my interest and attention almost throughout, it was an extremely ridiculous and farfetched story. It's hard to believe that, in this day and age, an author would actually use Illuminati substance in a story in this manner, being as old and monotonous as the topic really is. The conspiracy theory involving worldly and national higher-ups throughout history, and the eye and pyramid on the dollar bill, is both aged and clich&eacute;d. You'd almost think that the book was written about forty years ago. And the anagrams, described as Illuminati genius for the way in which they were written, but portrayed simply within the pages of the novel, were just another of countless lame items I had to overlook just to finish the book.<br /><br />Brown's theory of a deep-rooted, inexhaustible battle between science and religion (Catholicism) is, in my opinion, as exaggerated and ridiculous as the story itself. Catholicism is a tad more intellectual in thought than the manner in which it's portrayed in this book. He uses his exaggerated battle of religious silliness as the main plot of the story. It's a good thing many Godly people believe in miracles, too, as the ending is so riddled with nonsensical marvels that one would have to be a devout believer in earth shattering, multiple miracles to make any sense of the story at all. It goes on and on with twists and turns that the author seems to have thrown in to add a little depth to the story, most fairly predictable as well.<br /><br />Although the first half of the book was a rather quick read, I really had to force myself to get through the last sixty pages or so, as I thought it would never end. The story definitely had potential, though. I think it would have been a great deal better if written with a bit more realism in mind. I like suspense and action just as much as anyone, but I don't like being reminded throughout that what I'm reading is so ridiculous that it has to be `fiction', unless that fact is blatant, as in genres of profound science fiction and fantasy, or paranormal horror.<br /><br />I did give it three stars, though, for the reason I stated above; it at least had the ability to sustain my interest and attention almost (and I stress `almost') throughout.t is blatant, as in genres of profound science fiction and fantasy, or paranormal horror.     I did give it three stars, though, for the reason I stated above; it at least had the ability to sustain my interest and attention almost (and I stress `almost') throughout.	2003-09-27
US	51218362	R2RG6K9BJQ599R	0446518581	925093281	Border Music	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Nice Flow	I found this book in a bargain bin a few years back and finally got around to reading it only recently. Fortunately, I was glad I did, as it was diversely interesting, different from what I expected, too. No big surprises or stunning twists, but a nice flow all the same. Waller has a style of writing that fits the characters in his story; he writes from the angle of a Texas cowboy or other southern rugged, feral type, raw and unrefined.<br />'Border Music' is the story of untamed love, of romance initiated on a whim. It is the story of Jack Carmine and Linda Lobo, a drifter in a pickup truck and a sexy barroom dancer, who meet by chance, and decide to take a chance with each other. Sometimes a man will simply be a man, a drifter always a drifter as well; love dwindles and fades, and events become uncontrollable; fate takes control. Life gets on in years and the past appears as a dream. We know, ourselves, how much we'd love to try and grasp it and hold onto it just one more time, but always find it gone forever, leaving only faded memories. Country singer, Bobby McGregor, Jack's close friend, eventually realizes that his memories make him smile and reminisce, as he longs for the good ol' days to re-emerge. Uncle Vaughn Rhomer leaves in search of a dream, too, yearning for the experience himself, in search of his nephew also.<br />Maybe it's Jack who has the right idea, God's freeborn soul, for even though he longs for Linda, his true love, his heart calls on him to constantly wander ... keeping life fresh, free, and unpredictable.<br />Don't look back, Jack Carmine.<br />Though a novel for women also, this is a love story for men, which is somewhat rare.<br />Waller pulled it off nicely.	2003-05-19
US	51218362	R1F7UFYGDHKEKX	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intriguing	It took me a while to get around to reading this one, but I finally did, especially since finding it too intriguing to ignore. It was rather noble of Anne Rice to delve into the old God vs. Devil thing, instead of just good vs. evil, which is what most horror writers do. Others seem to steer clear of stories involving religion as a general rule of thumb.<br />Although I thought her theory of the banished angel, Memnoch (or Satan to some of us), was interesting, I also found it to be somewhat different than my own thoughts on the same topic. That's alright, of course; it is Lestat's world we're talking about here, not mine. She sure knows how to bend an old topic to its maximum twist to tell a story though. Her devil was not only a thoughtful and caring angel, but defiant and questioning of a God that he felt was thoughtless and negligent toward the needs of the earth's disadvantaged, its lost souls as well. Could this be the way it really is? I hope not, as many of us won't last a second, trying to get into a heaven led by such a deity. And other than the fact that Lestat is a vampire, and in need of human blood to survive, the idea of him being sinister enough to be picked as the devil's right hand man was perplexing enough in itself ... in a way. I had to remind myself every now and then that it was a thoughtful king of Hell who found himself in need of the services of a somewhat thoughtful bloodsucker.<br />Although Lestat needed human blood merely to subsist, he would never take it from the beautiful Dora though, for he loved her so, and promised her father, whom he did kill, that he would watch over her. But eventually, superfluous sips of insignificance proved tasty enough anyway ... well, read it and see for yourself.<br />Anne Rice has a deliciously twisted and wicked mind for expressing stories of the blood-leeching monster of legend and folklore in a contemporary setting. It seems her scenarios are endless, but always very new and exhilarating. I love the way she thinks, and find her to be an extremely amazing writer. I found this book to be very interesting indeed.he way she thinks, and find her to be an extremely amazing writer. I found this book to be very interesting indeed.	2003-03-01
US	51218362	R2S45HNWH9YO7X	068485743X	934544519	The First Five Pages: A Writer's Guide To Staying Out of the Rejection Pile	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Common mistakes, and how to correct and avoid them.	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. When it comes to completing a novel, Noah Lukeman covers all the tutorial bases. I would sometimes come to realize that I was guilty as charged by some of the general writer's errors and oversights discussed, without even realizing before reading the book that I was doing them. An amateur writer really does need these ideas and essentials pointed out to him. There is a path to follow, a road to success within the profession of writing, just as in any other art or profession. Lukeman takes the writer by the hand and explains the common mistakes that the new writer makes, and instructs how to correct those mistakes. His chapters on presentation and formatting, usage (over usage) of adverbs and adjectives, the `sound' of sentence construction, usage of punctuation, style, and dialogue were of priceless value to me. He does a good job explaining writer mindset and attitude as well, knowing that the choice of becoming a writer can sometimes be a long hard road for anyone. Some of the information was, in my opinion, general and basic writing knowledge as well, but good to see in print anyway, merely because some facts need to be written (correctly) and read over and over again before finally imbedded into a writer's brain. Mistakes often reoccur, as old habits are hard to break. This book will be an everlasting reference for me, something to look back on from time to time. It is the ultimate condensed writer's manual.	2002-08-26
US	51218362	R2408GCIVU3M2L	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	He's a 'likeable' lucky guy.	I found his story to be interesting, though a bit slow; in my opinion, memoirs have a tendency to be that way anyway. MJF is a standup guy, no doubt. Realizing at such a mature, yet young age, that you have suddenly been diagnosed with a disabling disease can in no way be an easy thing to deal with. He explained adequately and intelligently how he went from being a fun loving and boozing yahoo to a rudely awakened, thankful family man with the help of a devoted, loving wife and stable family existence.<br />It would seem as though it's merely another story depicting the notion that things happen for reasons ... fate is in command. I found it to be truly noble how he handled the situation. Sometimes the power of the affluent is what's needed to help those afflicted, especially when they become afflicted as well. In other words, squeaky wheels get all the grease. I wish him, and the Michael J. Fox Parkinson's Disease Foundation, all the luck in the world with research and the prospect of a cure, for he is right: he is a lucky man. It's a fortunate man who recognizes his luck. With that luck, combined with strength, he can go forthright in the fight to help those not so lucky.<br />Read this book and smile, as most of us always did when watching Michael J. Fox. I'm sure that's what he had in mind anyway.	2002-08-26
US	51218362	R200H0WF2ONXVF	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Love conquers all.	`Atonement' is an intimate story of an English family and their trials, tribulations, and buried secrets; from the early to mid 1900s, London's military hospitals of World War II, right up to 1999. It's a depiction of the all too common family break up, mistakes made within, tragedies as a result of, and the attempts made to amend the wrongs forced to persist for decades. It's a story of love, the love that's broken within a family; and conversely, the infinite adoration between lovers that thrives without boundary or limitation.<br /><br />The eyes of young Briony Tallis are exposed to situations that her adolescent imagination can decipher only on its own terms, especially when a serious crime is one of those scenarios. The young storyteller is then forced to describe what actually transpired. Unfortunately for her, and those involved, her words change the lives of those close to her forever.<br /><br />Consideration exists about the mistakes that can occur when a court of law is forced to base its decision upon the observations of a child witness. Nevertheless, as these wrongs do happen, life goes on and individuals carry on, mainly because of the love that's so prevalent between them.<br /><br />This was a gripping story from Ian McEwan. His depiction of Turner's eventual situation, incarcerated and in war (without giving too much of the story away), was sorrowful and heartfelt. The persevering and feisty spirit of young Cecilia was both enriching and endearing. Her beauty radiated from the pages.<br /><br />Love conquers all.	2002-07-01
US	51218362	R63TRNKY10GET	0684841215	371916423	Something Happened	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	In life ... sometimes you ask: "Why?"	Many of us, I'm sure, at one point or another in time have lived a life very similar to that of Heller's main character, Bob Slocum. I also have a daughter and a son close to the ages of the characters within, and have found it astounding the way he'd sometimes hit the nail on the head with resemblance in many of the conversations between father and offspring, spouse as well. The irony and comparability to my marriage, and life in general, was both hysterical and intense. I have a disabled son too, and know quite well the difficulties and complications that can and will arise, and the stress that it can place on a marriage as well. Heller did a good job at describing that (although I must credit myself with being a bit stronger about it than Bob Slocum ... to a point). There were differences as well, traits of Slocum that I didn't exactly care for, or couldn't seem to relate to; for he was in no way a perfect human being, but neither am I, nor are most of us. Though he did seem to be a bit of a bigot, a hypocrite, a womanizer and a male chauvinist, and somewhat vain and self-centered as well, these were mere flaws in the personality of a man who was basically fairly decent and normal. As different as we all may be, we all have our individual and personal flaws. Good people do have a tendency to struggle through life a lot, blindlessly at times ... constantly trying to figure it out by asking questions such as: \\"Why?\\"<br />This was a personable, brave, and heartfelt story from Heller, of one man's bout with fatherhood and modern life and its trials and tribulations. Though a tad depressing at times, there isn't much that can be done about that, so is life ... it's not always easy. I've read 'Something Happened' a couple of times and enjoyed it immensely both reads, though years between each. I may even read it again someday.	2002-05-21
US	51218362	R2UZ006M6DS6EO	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	funny - but powerful!	I can't see myself giving this book anything but five stars. Most novels read more than once, in my opinion, have to be considered good enough for that, though I know that there are exceptions. I first read Breakfast of Champions back in about 1975 or so, and it blew me away. It became the first of many Vonnegut novels I eventually dug into, and the second to be read again (Cat's Cradle as well), but definitely my favorite. His avant-garde sense of humor and easy writing style, especially in this one, was as much a pleasure the second time as the first.<br />The story of Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout, and their crazed antics and lifestyles leading up to their pinnacle meeting point is as hilarious as it can get. It's full of satire and cynicism regarding life in general (especially that of the late sixties and early seventies). The way Vonnegut picks at sex (you'll notice the way he mentions the size of a man's genitalia when introducing a character into the story, just as an author would describe hair or eyes), and racism (for the 'N' word is ridiculed and teased), is sheer lunacy at its most hilarious level.<br />If you're ever in the mood to read something that isn't exactly intended to change the world or move mountains with intellectualism, but at the same time, does have the power to force us to think a little about life, and make us laugh horrendously as well, then this is it.	2002-03-20
US	51218362	R3OKT493AIK92K	0140447814	243721725	Venus in Furs (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	90	93	N	Y	Artfully and tastefully done.	A well thought out erotic tale.<br />Leopold Von Sacher-Masoch's 'Venus In Furs', is interesting though eccentric, and perverse though compelling. Besieged in wonder and suspense, the love affair between characters: Severin von Kusiemski and Wanda von Dunajew, becomes a roller coaster ride of desire and emotion.<br />The obsessive fantasy to be enslaved and brutalized by the woman he loves becomes a cruel reality for poor old Severin. As beautiful Wanda slowly becomes thrilled and captivated by the notion of fulfilling her role in his fantasy, a role that previously made her shrug and laugh, she eventually transforms herself into the controlling dominatrix of Severin's dreams--by becoming more ideal at the sadomasochistic lifestyle than he had ever dreamed was possible. As Severin becomes the ever so content and happy slave, this tug-of-war between self-esteem and power begins to twist and turn with the innocent and deadly psychological games played out between the two.<br />Written more than a hundred years ago, this psychodrama of love, bound by the perverted desires of one and the demon lying dormant within the other, was tastefully and artfully done.	2001-12-18
US	51218362	R3MRDRMLI5A079	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keep your mind open and let your imagination go!	Yet another story of terror from one of the greatest writers of that genre, Stephen King once again pulls it off nicely. The story is fresh proof of the fact that he loves to write. You can sense his excitement as the story builds and witness his imagination flow wildly within the entwined happenings and memories of the four friends: as children in Derry, Maine, all the way up to their hunting escapades at 'The Hole In The Wall', where the chilling episode actually begins and the terror branches out and escalates.<br />Watch out for Mr. Gray!-This thought mysteriously invades Jonesy's mind. That was just a premonition of events to come. For when the close knit group gets together for a little vacation of quiet solitude and hunting, Jonsey, Henry, Pete, and Beaver end up on a trip to end all trips. The hunters become the hunted. Mr. Gray will make you feel humble and frail as the 'byrum' fungus and alien weasels infest and grow; meanwhile, telepathy umbrellas the area leaving nothing out of terror's reach as devastation engrosses and closes in.<br />It is a story of the love between friends, their growing process in life and maturity, intuition and endurance, tests of strength and fortitude-just to see it all draw attention to, and reach back at, the love of the fifth friend-the special friend-the one who understood most of all:<br />'Duddits' holds the key.<br />Although a bit drawn out in places, and hugely far-fetched, it was a different kind of alien invasion tale full of unrestrained and very imaginative situations, hysterical at times as well.	2001-10-19
US	51218362	R7HZRBO7QRWRA	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Different for Grisham,.. but still a good read.	Let's face it - How often do you get a chance to read a book that takes place in Black Oak, Arkansas? How American can you get? It was an interesting story, to say the least. - Grisham though? I couldn't help but wonder throughout most of the book when the attorney was going to enter into the story. There were plenty of lawful opportunities; it just never happened. Oh well... It's good to see Grisham change pace a little.<br />The cotton farming Chandler clan of Black Oak, are all in all, an interesting American family. Of course, no lawyers come into play; there's no money. Barely existing in a world where your whole fortune is washed away in flash floods, where you can easily get away with murder, and the most exciting thing to do is turn on the radio and listen to the St. Louis Cardinals game. (Well,.. there certainly isn't anything wrong with that.) Young Luke never ceased to amaze me. He was the type of young character who could bring a smile to your face and make you realize that there is hope for us all. Definitely the sort of kid you could pat on the head, and say, \\"C'mon buddy,.. Let's go play some baseball\\".<br />A wonderful story of the coming of age of a young boy and the hardships of his southern farming family. Although different for Grisham, it was a good read.	2001-07-30
US	51218362	R1MDQADJFKXV14	0812014480	823667867	The Art of Styling Sentences: 20 Patterns for Success	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A useful text	I've recently read a few books pertaining to sentence structure, styling, and punctuation; however, most of them weren't very useful. They just weren't what I wanted or needed. The twenty patterns stressed in this book have helped me tremendously. But don't stop there. Don't forget to check out the appendix at the end of the book. Many of us (myself included) have felt the need at one time or another for a useful guide on the proper codes of punctuation. The Appendix here is one of the best guides I've seen on this topic. When should you use a colon, semicolon, comma, or dash? Many of us get confused with these, esecially when writing compound sentences. Although I love to write, I am far from being perfect at it; I still have a lot to learn. Don't we all? 'The Art Of Styling Sentences' has assisted me a great deal and has been the most useful text on grammatical prose that I've read to date.	2001-07-19
US	51218362	R2QKELAYSUIUA	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A captivating and refreshing story	It helps a bit to remember that this C.S.Lewis sci-fi/fantasy adventure was first published in 1943. Even though our knowledge of Mars (Malacandra) is slightly more defined now than in Lewis' day, his wonderfully creative imagination can still delight and captivate a modern day reader.<br /><br />The novel begins with the carefree walking tour of the British countryside by a vacationing Cambridge college philologist named Ransom. By chance, Ransom runs into two crazed and evil (bent) colleagues who abduct him and drag him off via spaceship to the planet Malacandra. Fearing for his life, he escapes his captors and journeys through the waters, forests, canals, and strange countryside of the new world. Overwhelmed by the horrifying feeling of being alone in a place he knows absolutely nothing about, he encounters extraordinary obstacles, situations, and inhabitants throughout his amazing journey.<br /><br />The book is a wonderful story of one man's amazing adventures in a new land; and, while learning about the strange and diverse customs of it's inhabitants, he delves into his own mind and examines thoughts of love, hatred, greed, superior beings, God, and the meaning of life itself.<br /><br />It's a very captivating and refreshing book.	2001-07-12
US	51218362	R2DU29GD7PHNTK	0553582933	637222809	Winter Moon	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not one of Koontz's best.	I enjoy Dean Koontz's writing very much. He really has a style and prose all his own. The book was easy to read and started out suspenseful and the main characters were likable enough, but about halfway through the story, I realized that he was stretching out what could have actually been an interesting short story, into a 400-page novel. Although his demonic aliens were somewhat bland and unimaginative and the ending was weak, his writing style saved the book somewhat. `Winter Moon' will surely give you something to do if you're just looking for something easy to read, but it's quite far from being considered one of Koontz's better books.	2001-06-04
US	51218362	R5YYE8JRFY7RJ	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sheer lunacy,.. but fun.	It was an interesting concept, I thought to myself as I started getting into &quot;House Of Leaves&quot;. The idea that sections of a house could actually alter their appearance; just to open a closet door, and have its hallways go on and on and on... It wasn't totally original, but still interesting and done well. After Karen and Navy first move in, and he notices how the inside of the house somehow mysteriously measures to be a fraction of an inch longer than the exterior,.. this was sort of priceless.  The ways in which the author would describe the happenings within the ever-growing hallways and staircases was well thought out.<br />The footnotes have a tendency to drive you nuts. It's not too often that a fictitious novel has just as many or more footnotes (that are a story in themselves) than the actual book.  Most of them can either be glanced at or skipped altogether. But, you do always have the feeling that something important was being overlooked. And, the ever-changing altered print was hilarious to say the least. I know that Danielewski did this to express and play along with the books subject matter, but it was sheer lunacy.<br />No doubt, Mark Danielewski put an awful lot of time and effort into this novel. You can't take that from him. It can be a lot of fun if you're in the mood for it. The reader can't help but feel the devastation present as Navy uses his last match used for light inside the maze; as he begins to burn the book he's reading right up to his fingers, just so he can finish seeing what he's reading. Then, as it finally burns out, leaving him lost in eternal darkness,... Well,.. read it and form your own opinion. But beware,.. it's as crazy as the house.<br />This book is insane.	2001-03-13
US	51218362	RKY9MTZV9F4IG	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	6	7	N	N	You could almost take it personal.	It was fascinating to read a book about writing written without the flat and boring qualities of an ordinary English grammar and literature text. But, could Stephen King ever write like that? Probably not... The book is loaded with the usual King quips and idioms. It's easy to read and often humorous. King explains how interesting writing can be, just as long as you are enjoying it and having fun doing it. His opinions on editing and rewriting were excellent. He seemed to be pushing or edging the writer on as he spoke. His little pat on the back, letting you in on his realization of the amateur writer's loneliness and insecurities, was priceless 'felt from the heart' information. I'm not sure if I'm ready to see the guy that appears next to me smoking his cigar and putting ideas in my head. Although, since reading this book, I'm pretty sure he's there; I just can't see him yet.	2001-01-26
US	51218362	R1RWJBVI1YCQFA	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Jane Austen's work of literary excellence.	I recently bought &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; for my daughter. She didn't want to read it, so I did. As I dug right into it, I realized that my daughter, being only ten years old, was probably still a little young for it anyway. In fact, it was tough enough for me...Well, at least I can admit it.<br />It amazes me that some books, such as this one written almost 200 years ago, are filled with such style and prose. It seems that in our modern day world, with our stereos, TV's, computers and toys, that many of us unfortunately, don't seem to have the time to broaden our vocabulary, and grammatical abilities as well as some did 200 years ago. I guess,.. in some ways, we have certainly regressed in the natural progression of our intellects. Interesting ... It does make you want to read more books that were written long ago,..and broaden your mind a tad.<br />This was an interesting book, although a little slow at times; probably because of the huge gap in our cultural differences. I can see why it could possibly be considered a bit out of sync with the world of today. The book displayed what now would be considered an imbedded chauvinistic society's way of thinking; young women sitting around all day with the most important thing on their minds being, &quot;Who's going to come courting me today?&quot; But, I don't think that was any of Jane Austen's fault.<br />All in all, it was a very well organized and written story of life and mannerisms of old British Regency.	2001-01-11
US	51218362	R1Z6YL1J2B4SEE	0060806982	2759931	Profiles in Courage (Memorial Edition)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Thoughts on Moral and Political Integrity	JFK's writings on the courageous actions and integrity of selected Politicians (mainly State Senate) throughout our nations history (up until the early 1900's anyway) was interesting and enlightening. It is disappointing though, to think that these leaders would often have such a hard time doing what is morally correct within themselves, just to have their lives almost totally ruined by the greed of their fellow constituents within their selected regions, and their own political colleagues. Senator Kennedy talks also of the flaws within our Democratic Society and the greed within us all. The book is actually quite simple to read, just as long as the political moves and thoughts here in are of slight interest to the reader. JFK does try to display his thoughts and ideas on political courage through political decision making based on integrity and moral correctness; although, some of his ideas are expressed as a matter of personal and professional opinion. Political stubborness sometimes is expressed as integrity over political correctness, which can be a debatable issue in itself. I do believe that JFK's heart and mind were in the right place when writing this book; although he does give the opinion that he is trying desperately to convince us that certain political actions are of sound judgement. He does let the reader realize his love for political correctness and politics in general. But since 1956, it is too bad that our Nation's Politicians themselves, did not take Kennedy's writings of Courage and Integrity a little more serious.	2000-07-07
US	51218362	R2PTBJOBD36UP9	0385492316	378196514	Windswept House: A Vatican Novel	Books	5	78	82	N	Y	Only Time Will Tell.	Malachi Martin was a great man. It's too bad he's no longer with us, especially since he can no longer go forthright in his quest to expose what is so wrong in our great Catholic Church and Vatican upper echelon. Was his death an accident or an outright slaying? I wish someone knew the truth, and also had the proof and courage to speak up. Whether this book is of fact or fiction, it is a portrayal of life, morality, and the ultimate test of faith and honorability. Maybe somewhere, someday, there will be (or already is) another great man such as Martin, whose love and courage will help to complete the final pages. As with this story, and the evil and hatred portrayed in it, the horrible molestations and sacrilegious rituals, only time will tell the final outcome and the truth. This was a fascinating book.	2000-06-03
US	51218362	R2INHPUJ2EQOGA	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Gem!	This was definitely a story loaded with character to the hilt. It was not a typical Stephen King book in the horror sense; although it was loaded with suspense and horror. The book had a wonderful flow to it. I just  couldn't get bored or easily put this book down. Something dramatic and  suspenseful was always happening around each and every corner. Sometimes I  laughed and sometimes I actually cried. It was a story of friendship, love,  hatred, morality and life. The story carries a load of portraying a huge  political statement, disguised through the innocence of love, miracles and  wonderfully colorful characters. I haven't read many King books in years.  Not that I don't like him, I just think I finally got bored with horror  books. This story follows in the path of \\"The Shawshank Redemption\\" in  which King strays from his usual horror stream. I am a renewed King  faithful through this book. It is an absolute Gem of a story. I loved it.	2000-06-03
US	51218362	RKB6O2QHTAQX9	0140191895	131816381	The Confessions of Aleister Crowley: An Autohagiography	Books	4	22	25	N	Y	Interesting, but out there...	This was an intelligently written and interesting account of the life of a very strange yet fascinating individual. It would be interesting, if Crowley were alive today, to see if his lifestyle and ideas would come across as  acceptable and normal in today's world. Though a brave, extremely athletic, and intellectual person, who may have been on the verge of some fantastic spiritual goals and magical discoveries, he never quite reached his goals. Although some have labeled him 666 and the Beast, Crowley did not seem beastly at all. However, he did strike me as being slightly insane, eccentric, and very narcissistic and self absorbed. He went about life with way too much time on his hands, and his mind drifted off in areas where most people don't have the time nor the money to go. In other words, his lifestyle was difficult to relate to. The book  dragged on in places. I found his mountain climbing antics to be fascinating, though stretched and drawn out, making the story flow very sluggish in places. He was way out there, a very bizarre man. It makes for an interesting read. Strange people are fascinating.	2000-06-03
US	51218362	R2TL83FOCJQ7LZ	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	1	7	15	N	N	A Great Title...not much else to offer.	Some may have enjoyed Dave Eggers story of the unfortunate loss of his parents, leaving him the difficult task of bringing up his younger brother, but I found it to be a rant. Some of it was witty and a bit funny, especially his introduction. But all in all, I found the story to be fairly ordinary and somewhat boring. It often drifted back and forth without much story movement at all, and sometimes went virtually nowhere. Although Eggers wacky, dysfunctional thinking process saved the story a little, I couldn't wait to finish the book so I could finally start reading something else.  However, good luck to Dave and Toph anyway, as I applaud the human spirit for its traits of perseverance and endurance.	2000-05-18
US	51218362	R1V13RMRI1DF01	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Different but OK	I agree with those who think it's not Grisham's best piece of work, but I liked it anyway. 'The Brethren' is a change. Instead of a suspenseful nail biter, this one is more of a comical, entwined story. I got a kick out of it and it kept my interest. Basically, it's about three imprisoned judges with a scam going. I found the main characters to be satirical. Think of it as just another story, regardless of who wrote it.	2000-04-21
US	51218362	R2K9MTR56LHRX6	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More sci-fi hi-tech fun	At first I was a little disappointed with the technology that Crichton was using in this story. The idea of not actually traveling back in time but going to an alternate location wasn't what I expected the book to be about.  After a while and reading further on, it all sort of grew on me and became  more interesting. The concept being many  evolving universes beside each  other; or multiverses.  The story became exciting when the team was sent to  14th century France to save a colleague. Crichton uses a vast knowledge  acquired of these dark ages to enhance and describe the happenings in this  era. Crichton seems to have a knack for hi-tech sci-fi thrillers such as  &quot;The Andromeda Strain&quot; and &quot;Jurassic Park&quot;.  &quot;Timeline&quot; is right up there with the best of them. This was a  fun book to read.	2000-03-26
US	51218362	R2S1WVL88WD30E	0385312857	635181516	The Land Where Blues Began	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A genuine American classic	Back when I purchased this book, I had thought I was going to read a simple story about early American music. Though I wasn't too far off base, the journey that I was about to engage on was much more eye opening and broad than I had anticipated. Alan Lomax brought me on a trip to the Mississippi Delta, where he then introduced me to the likes of Mississippi Fred  McDowell, McKinley \\"Muddy Waters\\" Morganfield, Big Bill Broonzy, and many others. I was enchanted with the stories of the riverboat roustabouts, the levee  builders, the cotton pickers, railroad trackman, and the guitar pickin' blues singers of yesteryear.<br /><br />Alan Lomax explains about the hardships of the slavery era and how the music came about. \\"The Land Where Blues Began\\" is a classic work of art that should be read in high schools throughout the U.S.A. It's a history lesson on the genius and origin of early American music; and of love, hatred, ignorance and prejudice.<br /><br />It's a genuine American classic.	2000-02-12
US	51218362	R1ZOP84GZGAYH1	006065337X	962886952	Hostage to the Devil: The Possession and Exorcism of Five Contemporary Americans	Books	3	9	16	N	Y	a way out ride of terror	I believe that Malachi Martin was a fine man and an interesting writer. I read &quot;Windswept House&quot; and thought that it was a great piece of work. &quot;Hostage to the Devil&quot; is definately interesting. I  couldn't put it down. The problem I had with it is that the stories seemed  to get more and more fantastic and way out as the book went on. Believing  in some of these demons was sort of like watching the movie \\"Beetlejuice\\"  and taking it serious. The book is a good account of evil vs. good in the  world. I do believe that some of it may be true; and some can be taken with  a grain of salt. It does start off as being pretty scary, but after a while  you become immune to the terror. Keep a logical and open mind when reading  this one.	2000-01-06
US	51218362	R1YU4UXA38FCQB	0684872153	698161422	Angela's Ashes:  A Memoir	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A roller coaster ride of emotion.	This story was both terribly sad and remarkably funny at the same time. Frank McCourt's ability to combine the cruel, ignorant, and uneducated hardships of people with a diversely humorous approach is reminiscent of the genius of Joseph Heller's \\"Catch 22\\". The irony and comedic quality in the way he'd reuse phrases, or quotes, in both different and relative situations, as to repeat the humor, reminded me of Kurt Vonnegut's  \\"Breakfast of Champions\\".<br /><br />Unfortunately, it's the story of children forced to suffer hardships because of the irresponsible and dysfunctional actions of their parents. As amusing and dramatic as the story is, I hope those of non-Irish decent won't generalize the actions of the Irish because of the old-fashioned ignorance displayed in this book. They were definitely two pathetically negligent individuals, easily seen as more of an insult to the Irish than anything typical.<br /><br />The five stars I gave the story were for its comedic and witty value, for style and prose as well. It's an interesting story, even though the two primary adult characters were pitifully weak individuals.	2000-01-04
US	51218362	R1VISPCM0LWKRU	0306808978	227814636	Clapton: Edge Of Darkness, Updated Edition	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Adventures in Psycho-rock.	From a musician's standpoint, I feel that some of the prose of this biography was a little hard to withstand. Don't get me wrong, it was definitely an interesting book. It's just that I wish the story contained MORE about Clapton's music throughout the years, lyrically and theoretically, his equipment and so on ... Clapton the musician. The author did express his opinions of his songs and his albums, which I disagreed with a lot. But opinions are just that: individual likes and dislikes, and everyone's are different. TOO MUCH stress was on Clapton's personality, love life, and inner demons ... the celebrity stuff.	1999-12-27
US	51218362	R23DZ71P8FV6ZZ	0316160695	269592996	Stevie Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	A little pride and joy for us all!	This is a better than average biography. It's well written and the story flows nicely. It depicts the life of Stevie the child (lonely, insecure, shy; and extremely talented though highly intoxicated), straight through to Stevie the man (loving, outgoing, helpful; extremely talented still, though very sober). All too often people pass away at a time in life when all of the demons inside of them have been put to  rest. God must see that as a successful ending and a good time to be brought home. SRV's blues guitar style and spirited persona will live on with us forever. This book was an excellent read.	1999-12-21
US	51218362	RWESDSSE7OJ4I	0670885142	413630215	44: Dublin Made Me	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An excellent look at sixties Dublin.	Peter Sheridan's Irish family makes for a cherished read. The loved and classic Beatles' \\"Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band\\" album is brought to life once again. In descibing his fathers makeshift bathroom, Sheridan says that he used a local telephone directory for toilet paper: \\"He's down to the r's ... He's now wiping his arse with the Rileys\\" Pure dry Irish humor at it's best! The story depicts a lucid view of a loving Dublin family through good times and bad times in the 1960's. Very worthwhile!	1999-06-30
US	51218362	R3VMOC984GDU0H	0892812516	995944401	The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies--Their Influence and Power in World History	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Very informative...a worthwhile read	If you're interested in gaining knowledge of secret societies and their power and political influence throughout the ages then this book is for you. Michael Howard appears to possess a vast knowledge of these occult groups, from early paganism and Rosicrucians to todays Masons. His writings on the Vatican and also of the Third Reich will astonish. Everyone of power is involved in one way or another! Men of distinction beware of Lilith and Isis! Read on!	1999-06-13
