US	51223889	R1O998POL2W1E4	0743463560	656031494	1: Exodus (Star Trek: The Original Series--Vulcan's Soul Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	It's Star Trek Jim, but not as I know it !!!	As a fan of the original Star Trek series I am frequently disappointed with the lack of writers willing to tell stories actually set within this time period. There used to be a lot of good material around but these days it's as rare as a carnivorous Vulcan. This novel is yet another example of a story which goes under the guise of an 'original series' adventure but is little more than a dubious mix of debatable Trek history and cliched modern pulp. How many novels have dealt with an alien race coming back to claim an ancient birthright and thus setting off a conflict ?!!! Far too many by my reckoning !!! It is such a tired plot that I'm surprised fans still buy into it, but then in a sea of Star Trek cliches I suppose modern fans will accept just about anything. The irony is that this is actually a well written story from a purely literary point of view. The characters are reasonably well defined, the descriptive prose is enjoyable, and story evolution quite logical, but if you are looking for the fun and excitement of the original Star Trek, forget it !!! This has none of the style of the original series and so for a diehard fan like myself is difficult to get into. The modern part of the story is set after the Dominion War but seems little more than a desparate attempt to legitimise the whole exercise, while the bulk of the material takes place on ancient Vulcan, but as with a number of 'revisionist' novels in recent years lacks any credibility. I am however going to balance this review by pointing out that this novel is typical of much of the writing today and I suspect a lot of modern fans will quite like it. For me though, I long for the days of good old fashioned adventure spiced with interesting science fiction concepts, that was what I believe Star Trek was all about.	2004-10-22
US	51223889	R1SLC66EK4M521	0618390995	35278896	The Lord of the Rings: Weapons and Warfare - An Illustrated Guide to the Battles, Armies and Armor of Middle-Earth	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My Precioussssssssss	Among the host of LOTR memorabilia there are many books, some great some cheap merchandising, but this is one I fully recommend. Unlike the dozens of 'behind the scene' ones, this takes the clever angle of approaching the whole subject like a history text. This allows the writer to delve into the magic of the trilogy both in its' literary and movie form. It also means that unlike many of the other books on the market, which focus on just one part of the story, this is able to cover all three volumes and provides a lot of additional information that didn't make it to the big screen. While some people may find the focus on hardware and tactics not 'their cup of tea', there is also a lot of good background material on the history of the Ring conflict and some basic character exploration, and in any case if you are considering buying it the title does give you some idea of what to expect !!! It is a shame though that the first part of the story, 'The Fellowship of the Ring', isn't given more material, but it's understandable when you consider that most of the battles take place in 'The Two Towers' and 'Return of the King'. Personally 'Fellowship' was always my favourite out of the three, in both print and film, and I think it is a shame that with all the pre-Oscar hype over 'Return of the King' (*because it's seen as a foregone conclusion it will win) that the other films seem to have become overshadowed (*hmmm maybe Sauron isn't vanquished after all !!!). Anyway, for purists like myself, this is a great book that I would give my highest rating to. My only grip is that I suspect 'Gollum' may have been the type-setter. The quality control was appalling and many words seem to be missing the last letter, particularly if they appear at the end of a column. This is also true of some of the punctuation marks, and it is criminal that with all the effort that went in to making this such a great work that such a basic production mistake should be allowed to appear in the final sale version. Perhaps it was rushed in the final stages of production to get it 'in stores' by a set deadline, but although disappointing it can't undermine what in all other respects is an outstanding effort on the part of the author.	2004-02-29
US	51223889	R1I2VVJKLMHW3N	067102129X	663353360	Captain's Blood (Star Trek)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	&quot;Captain's Blood&quot; still somewhat anaemic	Having been slightly disappointed by Shatner's previous Star Trek book I had high hopes for this one, but sadly this is still a pale reflection on what he used to write. Perhaps his age and all the trials and tribulations of his life have slowed him down, but to me much of the excitement and zest seems to have drained out of his novels in recent years. What on earth possessed him to write a novel that is a sequel to &quot;Star Trek : Nemesis&quot; - debatably the worst Star Trek movie ever made !!! The film reflected the modern trend to ignore established Star Trek history and just write any old rubbish and hence is full of mistakes. Unfortunately Shatner, who in the past has been fairly consistent with getting things right, fell into this trap and by carrying on themes from the film has delivered a book with some highly dubious details. As with &quot;Captain's Peril&quot;, the inclusion of other characters is almost pointless as they offer nothing to the story, and their roles are so easily interchangeable you could substitute their dialogue and actions amongst each other. Kirk once again takes center stage, and while I'm not entirely against that as it is after all a William Shatner novel, the once famous Starfleet captain really doesn't do much other than wander around trying to solve another fairly obvious mystery. In recent years another annoying trend in Star Trek is to 'talk down' to the audience. I particularly dislike this as in my experience the average science fiction fan tends to have a reasonably high IQ, and if an audience can figure out what is going on within the first few chapters surely it is reasonable for highly trained Starfleet officers with years of experience to be able to do the same, instead of stumbling around in the dark only for the big non-event revelation at the end ?!!!<BR>Another thing a little disappointing about this novel is the tied plot device of a fake assassination. It has actually been used in a number of Star Trek novels - abook that I would recommend is #55 &quot;Renegade&quot; by Gene DeWeese published in June 1991 - and is actually used as an emotional cheat. I won't say any more as there is a plot twist concerning this I don't wish to give away. Plus speaking of re-occurring ideas I feel constrained to point out that the central villain to this particular trilogy is called &quot;The Totality&quot;. Now for those of us who have been around longer than we care to remember, Star Trek #9 &quot;Triangle&quot; by Sondra Marshak &amp; Myrna Culbreath published in March 1983 featured an entity of the same name. I bet they are kicking themselves they didn't register the name as a trademark !!! Sadly though, I fear this symbolises how recycled and rehashed Star Trek material is becoming, and as Shakespeare said : &quot;Familiarity breeds contempt&quot;. So at the end of this day this is another okay but hardly engaging effort, and once again I would advise people to wait for the paperback rather than paying the high price for a hardback. I hope the final book in this trilogy might turn things around but on current form I can't see it. Perhaps after &quot;Captain's Glory&quot; it might be time for Mr Shatner, and his alter ego &quot;James Tiberius Kirk&quot;, to hang up the phasers and take up a less intense occupation - say head wrangler on a tribble farm !!!	2004-02-12
US	51223889	R21K5UEMKLM6OT	074346401X	786069125	The Sundered: The Lost Era 2298 (Star Trek: the Lost Era)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Tale of the Lost Plot	Once again desparate to keep the franchise going Pocket Books have seen fit to engage on another multi-book series, and once again the results are at best mixed. Examining the missing periods of Star Trek history may seem like a good idea, but with the plethora of mediocre writers around today did they really think they could provide anything new or interesting? This is yet another example of a book that starts out well but soon loses its' way. Resplendant with a host of Star Trek cliches the average rabid fan will probably be satisfied, and there is enough whizz-bang action for the Playstation generation, but as usual there are a number of basic mistakes that are likely to leave purists cold. Also if you are expecting a good old-fashioned adventure with the characters of the original series that you love - forget it! Captain Sulu is about the only one who makes any valuable contribution to the story, the rest are just wallpaper dressing, and the new characters are excrutiatingly weak 'new age' space cadets full of emotional angst and problems (*the ghost of 'Voyager' still haunts Star Trek it seems!!!). <BR>Having said that you may think I hate this book but I don't. It does have some potential and I liked the way the authors brought the Tholians to life. They were probably one of the most unusual aliens from the original series and yet with all the resources of modern Star Trek, and all the rehashed material floating around, few have seen fit to give them anything other than a passing mention. Though many fans will find the interpretation of the Tholians as a crystalline insect type species debatable, I enjoyed it and feel it is possible within the established Star Trek framework.<BR>The real problem with this novel as I said is one of weak plot and poor characters. If you are looking for this kind of story I would be more likely to recommend &quot;The Rift&quot; by Peter David (Star Trek No. 57) published in November 1991, or at a pinch &quot;The Galactic Whirlpool&quot; by David Gerrold (*yes 'the tribble guy') published in 1980. You will find similar ideas in those novels but with a more focussed approach, and far less padding. What this novel really could have done with was some severe editing, as it is it really is too long and despite the action doesn't really fully deliver on what it promises.	2003-12-09
US	51223889	RIZE1JYLZLIP9	0743406419	424138464	Garth of Izar (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Whom Gods Destroy ... they first make write bad sequels !!!	As with most modern Star Trek writers I always worry when they decide to write a sequel to one of the original stories. This is because they rarely capture the style or fun of the show that started the Star Trek legend. These two authors to my mind have an erratic history with Star Trek as their first novel together, \\"Heart of the Sun\\", was a boring go nowhere story with no action whereas their second, \\"Across the Universe\\", was an exciting fast paced little adventure. Unfortunately this book is an uneven mix of the two. While there is a bit of excitement in it, the plot is an absurdly constructed mess, full of situational and logical errors. The dialogue is painfully bad at times and the mistakes and disjointed nature of the dream sequence at the beginning of the novel makes you question just how closely the two authors were in contact when they wrote it. As others readers have pointed out the authors can't seem to figure out if the adversaries are Romulans or Klingons !!! Though as every real Star Trek fan knows for the timeline to be consistent (*not that modern writers seem to give a damn about that sort of thing these days !!!), it would have to be the Klingons engaged in the battle. The other big problem with this story is again the rather dubious idea that it was inspired by an original series character who was so interesting the authors felt we should hear more about him. Well I completely disagree with the statement that \\"Captain Garth was only rivalled by Khan Noonien Singh as Kirk's greatest adversary\\". In fact he was just one of a long line of interesting characters who Kirk met during his career, a number of which have featured in various other novels, and personally I don't think that Garth was anywhere near the top of the list. I suspect that these two authors sat down one day and said ... \\"Hmm, who can we write about to give us a link back to Star Trek that hasn't already been covered\\" ... and thus this novel was born. Certainly I don't believe theycaptured the feel of the character, or delivered a particularly credible adventure with this novel. However once again the most disturbing thing about this book, and indeed the current generation of writers, is the lack of credit they give to past writers. As with Greg Cox, who wrote the atrociously bad novels about \\"Khan Noonien Singh\\" in 2001 and 2002, these two authors are full of praise for the actor who breathed life into the central character of their novel, who they claim was their inspiration, but give absolutely no recognition what so ever to to his creator. For the record, while Steve Ihnat played the character of \\"Garth of Izar\\", it was Lee Erwin and Jerry Sohl who conceived him and without them he simply wouldn't exist. This lack of respect for the original series writers is both disappointing and I suspect indicative of why so much modern Star Trek is weaker than its' predecessor. Current writers don't understand the in and outs of how the original stories were constructed and subsequently often fail to reproduce the sense of style and entertainment that they had. As for this novel it is a barely adequate excuse for yet another mediocre adventure.	2003-04-21
US	51223889	R2L8C1HYLY1T4Q	0743400747	103888357	Star Trek - Gemini	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Predictable But Fun	I haven't read any of Mike Barr's other works so I was interested to see if he would ruin an original Star Trek adventure like so many modern writers. While I found the story of this novel to be fairly basic, with rather obvious plot twists and a host of redundant characters, at the end of it all I was rather surprised to find that I quite enjoyed it. I think I would put this down to the author's treatment of the original crew. Unlike too many of today's writers, raised on modern soap opera Star Trek, Barr seems able to return to the spirit of the original series and writes credible versions of Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Scotty, all in keeping with how they were portrayed in the television series. While I'm sure this won't appeal to a lot of modern fans I think Barr deserves praise for doing so, after all what is the point of writing an adventure set in the original series if it is done in a modern style? The dialogue is a bit weak at times but it is consistant with what these characters might say in such situations. The action also follows a number of traditional Star Trek cliches, but this just adds to the fun, and there are a number of clever references both to the original series and the movies. All said and done this is one of the more enjoyable 'real' Star Trek books to come along in a while, a fun nostalgia trip for true fans of the show. Give me young, action man Kirk, firing a phaser and punching out the villains, to boring Picard using his Counselor to talk the bad guys into submission any day!!!	2003-04-06
US	51223889	R39ICFD6LS25ZI	0743419227	285780402	1: The Brave and the Bold Book One (Star Trek)	Books	1	2	10	N	N	The Bland And The Boring	In recent years there has been a disturbing trend in \\"Star Trek\\" to rehash previous material ad nauseum and here is yet another example. The basic premise for this two book series is actually clearly [an imitation of]the animated \\"Star Trek\\" episode \\"Slaver Weapon\\", written by Larry Niven and based on his non-Star Trek story \\"The Soft Weapon\\". There is even a hint of the episode \\"The Lorelei Signal\\" thrown in for good measure as well. Not that I'm surprised by this, if you look carefully the horrendously bad incarnation of \\"Star Trek\\" that was \\"Voyager\\" also frequently rewrote episodes of the animated \\"Star Trek\\", yet the original versions were always more intelligent despite being conceived for a juvenile audience. I think it says a lot about the state of modern \\"Star Trek\\" writers and fans that this should be so. Anyway back to this work and after a mildly enjoyable \\"Enterprise\\" introduction the writer delivers a largely pointless \\"Star Trek\\" adventure that has about as much life as a Vulcan stag night; while finishing off with an equally bland \\"DS9\\" story that also seems to have ejected its' warp core. Gone are the interesting characters of old, gone is the action and excitement, and gone is the intelligent drama. Instead we have another soap opera in space with weak characterisations, laughable action, and a plot so stupid even a Pakled wouldn't find it mentally challenging. So the sorry decline of \\"Star Trek\\" continues, and it looks as though after all the battles with Klingons, Romulans, Borg, and Cardassians, the enemies that will finally finish off the Federation are [weak] writers. Obviously the old saying is true : \\"The pen is mightier than the disruptor !\\"	2003-03-24
US	51223889	R3CZODGSP3294P	0740725866	490121229	Star Trek Stardate 2003 Block Calendar	Books	1	0	0	N	N	When Good Merchandising Goes Bad !!!	I haven't bought one of these for a couple of years but was quite excited to get one when I heard that it would be the first to feature scenes from \\"Enterprise\\". Fortunately I got it in a sale for a fraction of the retail price and just as well too !!! Quite frankly this is one of the worst ... pieces of Star Trek merchandise in recent years. Many of the pictures are just ones they have used before and for the most part are quite boring. There is no picture of Captain Archer's Enterprise, in fact the only starship pictured is from the Original series featuring the old NCC-1701 caught in the Tholian Web. While I like this image it has been printed a million times and most Satr Trek fans probably see it in their sleep. However worst of all ... and boy this really bugs an Original series fan like me ... a large portion of the Original series pictures have been printed the wrong way round !!! Sorry but there is no excuse for this, all the printers had to do was look at the insignia on the uniforms to figure out which way round the images should be. With this kind of lousy quality control it is clear that this was just a cheap rush job, and the makers were only concerned with getting it out in the shops to make a quick profit. Shame on Simon & Schuster and shame on Paramount who don't seem to care about the slide in quality of recent Star Trek products. \\"Warp speed Scotty, I see another cash cow on the horizon to butcher !!!\\"	2003-01-20
US	51223889	R19P41PLRVNQBO	0743448197	470106474	Captain's Peril (Star Trek)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Star Tek ?!!	I have always been a fan of the original Star Trek series and I love William Shatner's interpretation of the characters. Indeed I would rank his Star Trek novels as heads and shoulders above most of the rubbish that passes for Star Trek these days. However I have to say I was somewhat disappointed with this novel and it is easy to see why so many people were quite scathing of it. Firstly it is definitely a \\"Kirk novel\\". While Capt. Picard features a bit his role is really secondary to the plot and has little impact. In the past Shatner has tried to involve other characters, sometimes even introducing new ones, which has given his books a greater scope but this one is far too introspective. Secondly, whereas most of Shatner's books are not easily classified as they cut across a number of the modern Star Trek incarnations, this one is most definitely a \\"Deep Space Nine\\" novel. Given that out of the modern series DS9 tends to rate the lowest - though personally I think it is actually the best of the modern ones by a long shot !!! - it was odd that they would choose to set a novel entirely within this framework. Finally, because of the murder mystery nature of the story, it actually reads more like one of Shatner's \\"Tek\\" novels than a true Star Trek adventure. All of these factors undoubtedly undermined the book and I suspect probably divided the readers. Personally I quite liked it but would definitely not rate it up there with his best and again, because of the high price of hardbacks, would probably only recommend people buy the paperback when it comes out next year. Still the ending is excellent and leads in well to next years \\"Captain's Blood\\", which I hope will be a much better, and more traditional, Star Trek adventure.	2003-01-05
US	51223889	R1EIFW776A2PG	0810932962	620739171	James Bond: The Legacy	Books	3	5	10	N	N	The names Bond, ... "Coffee Table" Bond !!!	As a long time fan of James Bond, yes I have every official novel and movie (*and recently posted a review for \\"Die Another Day\\"), I was quite excited by the prospect of this book when I heard about it but have to say it isn't all it's cracked up to be. It is beautifully produced, but then all of Boxtree's publications are, with some never before published photos and a glossy, elaborate format. However it has the sometimes derogatory label \\"coffee table\\" book written all over it. Despite what some reviewers have said, shame on them, this is NOT a good review of the James Bond films. In fact it hardly critiques the films at all rather, as the title suggests, it actually examines the context in which the Bond movies were made and looks at some of the behind-the-scenes decisions that effected them. The problem with this is that over the years there have been a number of these kind of reference books and most real fans already know much of this material. Also these two authors seem to have re-invented the myths somewhat, as there are some major differences to their interpretation of certain events compared with other writers. This only serves to \\"muddy the waters\\" so to speak, and while controversial and guaranteed to sell books, it is hardly helpful. I can also confirm that there are a number of mistakes in this work that anyone with a good working knowledge of Bond would pick up on, which again leads me to question the validity of some of the text. However as I say, this is definitely a \\"coffee table\\" book, designed more to impress your friends with the way it looks rather than its' literary content, and it fills that role admirably. Naturally because of its' size it is a bit expensive, and given the aforementioned problems I would caution readers to think twice before buying it. If you are a \\"die-hard\\" Bond fan like myself then I probably would recommend this book solely on the never before seen photographs alone, but for more \\"general\\" Bond fans works like \\"The Incredible World of 007\\" by Lee Pfeiffer & Philip Lisa or \\"The Essential Bond\\" by Lee Pfeiffer & Dave Worrall are far better value for money, and better examinations of the plots, characters, gadgets and merits of the Bond movies.	2003-01-05
US	51223889	R1CA6OH6Z8GQ6E	0743437705	3849450	Star Trek Star Charts: The Complete Atlas of Star Trek	Books	5	5	5	N	N	STUNNING !!!	In recent years I have been a bit disappointed by the quality of some of the Star Trek material being produced. Many of the books have the feel of tired, old ideas rehashed over and over again. Indeed one might be forgiven for thinking that this is a classic case of merchandising gone too far. However every now and then a book like this comes along which sparkles like a diamond in a sea of mediocrity. To put it mildly this is a stunning little reference book which, despite one or two debatable bits, is well researched and written, and superbly put together. The vibrant colours, graphics, and layout are some of the best I have seen in any Star Trek reference book and are a credit to the author and his production team. In fact in a twist of irony the use of strong colours harks back to the set and costume designs of the Original Star Trek, as opposed to the slightly wimpy pastels of The Next Generation, or the brooding dark pallet of Deep Space Nine; Voyager and Enterprise. I for one am grateful for this and you only have to compare it to the disappointing format of David Mack's Starfleet Survival Guide to see what a difference a touch of class makes. If you have read some of my other reviews you will know that I'm a very harsh critic despite my love of Star Trek and don't give appraise lightly, but I can honestly say that this is without doubt my best Star Trek purchase of the year and would make a great Christmas present for any Trekker.	2002-12-19
US	51223889	RW1RLMGWWFGSK	0425189635	513731449	Die Another Day	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Better Than Benson's Originals	Marking the 20th official Bond film, and celebrating 40 years of cinematic history, \\"Die Another Day\\" is both a homage as well as a very modern addition to the Bond legacy. This book also proves once again that Raymond Benson is really only at his best writing with other peoples' ideas. This action packed story makes his previous novel, his original title \\"The Man With The Red Tattoo\\" which was published earlier this year, seem like a pale imitation of what a Bond adventure should be. This story contains the standard mix of maniacal megalomaniac trying to bring down the West and take over the world, but nicely balances out the more recognizable elements with some new, clever ideas. Some of the characters are a little flat, slightly weaker than \\"The World Is Not Enough\\" (1999), but this is more than made up for by the high tech gadgets and spectacular action sequences. Having just been to the New Zealand premiere of the film I wasn't surprised to find I actually enjoyed the book slightly more but ... BEWARE ! ... some of the scenes differ in the novel version. I'm not sure if this is Benson flexing his literary muscle or if Lee Tamahori, the movie's director and a fellow Kiwi, made screenplay changes on set. For instance in the novel \\"Mr. Kil\\" is an Icelander, but in the movie Tamahori recast the part to make him a Maori ! Benson does an impressive job of slipping in a lot of little references to previous Bond movies, some of which are in the film and some of which aren't, and generally seems to have fun with this story which is quite dark in places. Overall I would certainly recommend this novel over all of Benson's original works, in fact it is only his continued success with these movie novelizations that keep me, a long time Bond fan, from buying his independant novels.	2002-12-16
US	51223889	RNAV1O6Q5J7JN	0743437780	831257082	Star Trek: Strange New Worlds V	Books	1	0	12	N	N	Garbage	This will definitely be the last \\"Strange New World\\" collection I will buy as the series has really reached its' nadir here. Once again it is full of the soap opera garbage that has plagued Star Trek for more than a decade. Star Trek was always about action, adventure, intelligent ideas and yes ... strange new worlds. This pile of rubbish, apart from the odd bright spot, has almost none of that. It actually makes me almost ashamed to call myself a \\"Trekker\\" when I read this kind of material, but then what else can you expect from a generation raised on \\"Beverley Hills 90210\\" ?!!! Of course the real villains in this travesty are the editors who prove once again they are completely out of touch with what makes good Star Trek. The grand prize winner in this collection is a seven page story, fifty percent of which is just a transcribed version of a scene from the Star Trek episode \\"The City on the Edge of Forever\\". Now the Oxford English dictionary defines \\"plagiarism\\" as \\"to appropriate (ideas, passages, etc.) from (another work or author).\\" If this is not a clear case of that then what is, and to make this the grand prize winner is an insult to everyone who submitted genuine original ideas, good or bad. Personally if I was Harlan Ellison I'd be reaching for the phone to call my lawyer about this one. As a librarian by profession I take a very dim view of this kind of thing, and as far as I am concerned this collection clearly crossed the line, which is why I certainly will not be wasting any more money on future editions.	2002-11-11
US	51223889	R3I4DAU13KB7AE	0743445988	340129341	1: The Edge of the Sword: Errand of Vengeance Book One (Star Trek: the Original Series - Errand of Vengeance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cutting Edge Novel	This is the second trilogy this year conceived to look at the lives of some of the other crew members on the starship Enterprise, and in many ways is even truer to the concept than L.A. Graf's excellent \\"The Janus Gate\\" series. While it is obvious that Kevin Ryan's experience as a writer isn't up there with the best, his sentence structure leaves a lot to be desired, what he lacks in technical skill he more than makes up for in good storytelling. This is without doubt one of the most action packed Star Trek novels to come along in years, and delivers a level of excitement that represents all that is best in the Star Trek universe. This story actually takes place early in the show's first season, and while I am not entirely convinced by the way the author chose to tie events into this book at least he made an effort. There is some good character development - even some romance - but it is never allowed to slide into pointless soap opera drivel like so much of modern Star Trek writing. The central character is of course the Klingon agent \\"Kell\\", and while his musings about \\"pathetic, weak, cowardly Earthers\\" does get a little annoying at times, in the context of the story it works okay. Overall this is a great start to this trilogy and I'll be interested to see if the author can maintain this high level of quality across the series.	2002-10-24
US	51223889	R21FZL6PF8PSQB	0743446003	798449892	River of Blood: Errand of Vengeance Book Three (Star Trek: the Original Series - Errand of Vengeance) (Bk. 3)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Cry Havoc, And Let Slip The Dogs Of War !!!	First off let me say that I did enjoy this book, but to me it was a bit of a disappointment when compared to the first two. Basically this book is just one long battle - with an emphasis on the word \\"long\\" - and if it wasn't for the link back to the Klingon heritage probably would have been called \\"The Seige of Starbase 42\\" !!! Gone is the complex story and character development of the first two books, replaced by one endless phaser battle after another - was this story written for the Playstation generation or what ?!! Also as with book two, the number of technical flaws in the plot are enough to pilot a starship through. However probably the weakest aspect of this book is that \\"Kell\\", who was the driving force behind this trilogy, seems to become just a footnote here. He appears briefly at the beginning, sporadically during the running battles on the starbase, and then at the end meets a decidedly predictable fate. Again I have to put this flaw in the story structure down to the author's lack of literary skills. This just isn't a good way to write a plot, i.e. where the writer loses sight of the main character, but on the up side one can still enjoy the action and sheer pace of this novel. Ironically this story telling flaw has one obvious advantage to an Original Series fan like me in that it allows Captain Kirk to take a much more active role in the adventure. Overall this has been an excellent trilogy which I thoroughly enjoyed and would reccomend to any serious Star Trek fan, but it is a shame that the last book in this series, which was the climax and therefore should have been the highlight, proved to be weakest of the three.	2002-10-24
US	51223889	R2B5KVO5SD4B3J	074344602X	87314152	Killing Blow: Errand of Vengeance Book Two (Star Trek: the Original Series - Errand of Vengeance) (Bk. 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Let The Mayhem Begin	The second book in this trilogy is even more action packed than book one, with more exciting battles and heroic deeds, but the cracks also begin to show. While the continuity with the first book is maintained there are more technical and historical flaws in this work which to me weakens the plot slightly (*that's the trouble when you are an obsessed, nit-picking fan like me !!!). The Star Trek regulars are present but only Kirk and Spock make any significant contribution to the story, and there are fewer references to the original series events. The main character \\"Kell\\", is starting to lose his appeal which I suspect is to set up his end in the last book. It is ironic that as he becomes more \\"human\\" he becomes less interesting !!! However the thing that bothers me about this novel is the breakdown of logical storytelling elements, as this suggests the plot is being stretched too far. I have however rated this book the same as book one because although the first one had a more solid story base, this one pumps up the action to an even higher level. So if you're into Star Trek that gets the old pulse racing, this one is for you !!!	2002-10-24
US	51223889	R1N95NMLQT98G9	0743449096	690568493	The Last Roundup (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	The Last ... ( yawn ) ... Roundup	It has been over a decade since the last movie featuring all of the original Star Trek crew, yet since then there have been a number of books claiming to be their last adventure. I am beginning to wonder if any of these authors know what the meaning of the word \\"last\\" actually is !!! For my money the best post \\"ST VI\\" book is without doubt William Shatner's \\"Ashes of Eden\\", but I'm afraid this one doesn't even come close to that. Here we have another writer clearly raised more on modern Star Trek than the original series who writes a largely lifeless tale where all the characters \\"get in touch with their feelings and get together for a group hug !\\" - well actually it's not quite that bad but it comes pretty close. I'm sorry but this kind of wimpy, revisionist Star Trek is just not my cup of tea, and in fact is what I blame for sapping the life out of the Star Trek legend. I can't help but be reminded of the Khan novels by Greg Cox from last year and the year before, which also were extremely weak stories inconsistent with established Star Trek fact. Golden is obviously of the same generation of writers, one who takes ideas from the original series but distorts them for the sake of the story she wants to write rather than adding to the overall Star Trek history. I also have to wonder if she is a \\"Star Wars\\" fan and this is her revenge on \\"Star Trek\\", because I'm sure other readers will note that the character of \\"Skalli\\" comes across as this novel's \\"Jar Jar Binks\\", with all that this implies. Much of the plot for this novel appears to be cobbled together from a host of Star Trek shows and films and is really just another tired retread, though I guess the reader can always play \\"now where did I see this before !\\", but what's the point. Again I find myself shaking my head that so much modern Star Trek has gone this way. If any real fans of the original series are interested and want to read about a planet called Sanctuary (*it really is an overused name in Star Trek !) then I would recommend the book \\"Sanctuary\\" by John Vornholt, Star Trek #61, which was published in September 1992, at least that has some excitement and mystery in it. As for this novel, at the end of the day if this is the last roundup I think the cows would have all fallen asleep out of boredom on the trail.	2002-09-26
US	51223889	R2PRM0T2Z8PUSH	0743445961	991934873	3: Past Prologue: Janus Gate Book Three (Star Trek: the Original Series - the Janus Gate)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Timely Return To Form	The final book in this time travel trilogy is another excellent effort from Graf who has restored my faith that people can still write exciting Star Trek adventures instead of the usual soap opera stuff that plagues much of the modern material. Here we have an interesting story that delves further into Kirk's past, including his relationship with his father, but never loses sight of the overall plot. How easy it would have been for this to become a \\"Next Generation\\" or \\"Voyager\\" style story with the characters \\"getting in touch with their feelings\\" and all \\"having a group hug\\" - but no, this is a serious story, and thankfully the author allows the characters to resolve the drama in an adult fashion. The overall conclusion to the Janus Gate side of the story back on Tlaoli IV is also brilliant, although a bit convoluted at times (*but then most time travel stories are !!!), and again I must praise the author for the way she cleverly brings it all together at the end. On a side note I must add my voice to the other readers who have complained about the synopsis that Pocket Books has provided for each of these novels. Only book two contained a synopsis that was remotely close to the actual story of the novel, while book one and three in fact were a load of garbage. Do the publishers actually read the books ?!! And if so who is responsible for the totally inaccurate synopsis writing ?!! Maybe the readers would like to start a letter writing campaign to Pocket Books to ensure that consumers are actually getting what they pay for when they buy a book instead of something completely different !!! Anyway at least this was one of the really worthwhile titles, and one of the better series of Star Trek books, regardless of the lousy synopsis on the back cover. A thoroughly enjoyable read which I would recommend to anyone, and I only hope Kevin Ryan's \\"Errand of Vengeance\\" trilogy will prove to be as good.	2002-09-15
US	51223889	R1NSQEVLNZQ2E9	067103636X	888808219	Future Imperfect: Janus Gate Book Two (Star Trek The Original series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Here Today, Gorn Tomorrow !!!	The second book in L.A.Graf's \\"Janus Gate\\" trilogy is an exciting adventure which builds on the ground work laid in book one. This time there is more of a science fiction edge, as the true nature of the Janus gate mechanism is revealed, and just how out-of-sync the time stream now is becomes apparent. The future adventure with Sulu and an older Chekov fighting the Gorn is an excellent idea, and the fact that the author found a new and interesting way to use established characters and aliens from the original series speaks volumes of her ability as a writer. The ending too manages to throw in another curve to the story with the arrival of the mysterious \\"Shechenag\\", and the reader can't help but be drawn in to the next book. For any other fans who liked this story I would also like to recommend \\"Killing Time\\" by Della Van Hise published in July 1985 (Star Trek collection #24), which features an excellent story where Romulans have altered time creating a distorted future in which Spock is an embattled starship captain, and Kirk is a bitter ensign. As for this book, it is another enjoyable effort from Graf, even better than the first one.	2002-09-10
US	51223889	R26ZEIZ9ES00L	0671036351	166052346	Present Tense: The Janus Gate Book One of Three (Star Trek The Original Series)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Underground Success	Having been a little disappointed by the quality of recent Star Trek novels it was with some trepidation that I bought this multi-book series. Fortunately L.A. Graf has had a number of successes in the past and proves there is still life in the original Star Trek universe. The author has written a number of works that have a common thread of an almost obsessive fascination with the characters of Sulu, Uhura, and Chekov, and while I don't always agree with how they are represented it is true that I have never been disappointed by Graf's story writing abilities. Here we have a basic \\"transporter gate\\" type story but unlike last year's terribly weak \\"Gateways\\" series, the author manages to breathe life into the story by the added twist of the time travel nature of the transporter. As the first book in the series is is mainly a set-up piece, but it is full of mystery and intrigue and nicely leads into book two. The clever way that the adventure is slotted into the original Star Trek timeline is also indicative of the author's attention to detail and is appreciated by a long time fan of the original series like myself. A good effort all round and I look forward to reading the next book.	2002-09-08
US	51223889	R5MXVTCA7A01B	0399148841	759320986	The Man with the Red Tattoo	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Another Benson Book Full Of Bugs !!!	Unfortunately Raymond Benson continues to prove it was a mistake for him to be appointed the official \\"James Bond\\" author as he delivers yet another novel that starts well but turns out to be a lacklustre adventure. The old problems come home to roost - too many weak characters, too many plot flaws, and not nearly enough exciting action to keep the story moving. Also this time Benson, who is usually as faithful to the cinematic version of Bond as he is to the literary one, makes some odd errors. Bond is once more armed with his Walther PPK, which from professional experience I personally think is a good thing, but of course 007 was rearmed with a Walther P99 in \\"Tomorrow Never Dies\\" and has carried one ever since - so why the sudden change back now ?!! And the character of \\"Q\\" (aka \\"Major Boothroyd\\") was clearly written out in the last movie, \\"The World Is Not Enough\\" 1999, yet he is still in charge of his department here. Surely it makes sense for Benson to get in step and retire this character as well ?!! Another curious flaw is that Benson, who prides himself on knowing Fleming's Bond inside out, has 007 ending up in bed with a prostitute. Now according to the back story of Bond he had an affair with a prostitute in his teenage years which ended badly. Ever since he has had a loathing for those in the profession, so the idea of him romancing one seems highly unlikely. As with his previous novel Benson also brings back another character from Fleming's day - \\"Tiger Tanaka\\" from \\"You Only Live Twice\\" - but typically ages the man while Bond of course remains ageless. Again I have to say that for me this weakens the credibility of the plot, but at least he didn't ruin or arbitrarily kill off the character as he did with \\"Draco\\" in \\"Never Dream Of Dying\\". As for the overall story it is surprisingly lightweight and unoriginal. Genetically engineered viruses have almost become the 21st century equivalent of the nuclear bomb threats of the 20th century - oh how times havechanged !!! - but even in the old days Fleming dealt with this topic in \\"On Her Majesty's Secret Service\\", and Alistair Maclean also did a great job with this theme in his novel \\"Satan Bug\\". Somehow pitting James Bond, the world's greatest secret agent, against a killer dwarf (*shades of the film \\"The Man With The Golden Gun\\" 1974) and deadly mosquitoes, seems to be pushing things just a bit. So another somewhat disappointing effort from Mr. Benson, reasonably well written but clearly full of bugs !!!	2002-07-24
US	51223889	R1AF3T83OI3OHU	1861541643	769901951	Faberge: Imperial Craftsman and His World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Stunning Book	Wonderfully presented book examining the history and production facility set up by Carl Faberge. The research is spot on, as are the sumptuous colour photographs of many of the pieces produced, and I have seen few works on the subject as comprehensive as this one. As with the designers and craftsmen at the Faberge workshops this book is an inspiration, and I can thoroughly recommend it to anyone interested in the subject. A visual and intellectual feast for the mind and soul.	2002-07-24
US	51223889	R33SF0VJSKLKWN	0743406435	312415273	The Eugenics Wars, Vol. 2 (Star Trek: the Original Series - the Eugenics Wars)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Chewing Gum 2	... Greg Cox continues to plumb the depth with this temporal travesty that, as with the television series \\"Enterprise\\", seems to have no respect for the established historical details of \\"Star Trek\\". This does unfortunately seem to be a common problem with modern material and I am at a loss to understand why modern fans seems to accept this state of affairs. As for this book, whereas at least the first volume had some clever side references to pulp culture (eg James Bond, The Avengers, The Equalizer etc), this one is almost totally devoid of any real life and is yet another example of a cheap money spinning novel by an author who should have known better. The plot is predictable, the characterizations a joke, and the attempt to fit the story into the \\"real\\" world so hamfisted it just makes one shake their head in disbelief. At the end of the day this book is chewing gum, not a fresh piece, but one that has been chewed so long it has lost all its' flavour and you just want to spit it out !!!	2002-06-27
US	51223889	RP0RK1GU8OTQ	0743412257	222353890	In the Name of Honor (Star Trek)	Books	1	3	9	N	N	No Honour In This Retread	As someone who has read a lot of Star Trek novels over the years, and reviewed quite a few, I find it sad that the same old criticisms still have to be said. Anyone who is writing in this genre needs to be fully aware of the history of Star Trek and must write within the established character and event guidelines. Speculative stories that are clearly at odds with 'real' Star Trek are almost worthless. As evidence I offer the horrendous prequel \\"Enterprise\\", which has more holes than mouldy Swiss cheese and stinks almost as bad. Here we have a novel that claims to be set between STV and STVI, but for all intents and purposes is just a [bad] rehash of STVI. Doesn't it strike anyone as odd that if Kirk and his crew had been through an adventure like this they might have reacted just a tad differently in \\"The Undiscovered Country\\" ?!!! Of course they would have, which highlights what a pointless rehash this is. The irony here is that Dayton Ward is quite a good writer, but he should have enough faith in his abilities to write an original adventure, not ride on the coat tails of other authors' ideas.	2002-03-24
US	51223889	RY4A349D4ZDVW	0671021273	926743636	The Eugenics Wars Vol I:  The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh (Star Trek)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	A Temporal Travesty	In January 1998 Greg Cox published &quot;Assignment : Eternity&quot; an interesting Star Trek novel which, despite its flaws, was reasonably exciting and fitted within the Star Trek chronology. In it he stated that &quot;Assignment : Earth&quot;, the show it was inspired by, was one of his favourite shows yet ironically four of the many errors he made in that novel related to that very episode !!! As with many modern fans he doesn't know the material anywhere near as well as he thinks he does and clearly can't be bothered to do enough research to back up his work. This novel suffers even more from the same problem. He packs in every silly reference he can come up with both from Star Trek and other cult shows, but along the way makes absurd mistakes and distorts established Star Trek history to try and justify reality. Here's a message from William Shatner : &quot;Get a life, Mr. Cox.&quot; Star Trek is fiction, it exists as a wonderful fantasy world with its own unique history and characters, and doesn't need to be warped and mutilated to try and make it conform to our world. Modern Star Trek writers, both in the novels and on television, continually try and do this and it just doesn't work. The new series &quot;Enterprise&quot; already seems to be heading down this road, however thankfully the &quot;Star Trek&quot; prefix seems to have been dropped which hopefully will distance this show from the others. One critic noted that Mr. Cox didn't give credit to the writers of &quot;Space Seed&quot;, the original episode that introduced Khan, and I can see why. If you listen carefully that whirring noise you can hear is both of them spinning in their graves at this juvenile rubbish. It is an insult to the creative talents and imaginations of all those who have worked on the various incarnations of Star Trek when writers disregard established details just to make easy money from diehard fans who are all too eager to lap up this kind of material without critical analysis. Iam beginning to wonder if perhaps Mr. Cox is really a Ferengi in disguise !!!	2001-09-17
US	51223889	R3TXDUYFV09IBC	0743418549	345138148	Gateways #1 (Star Trek)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	One Small Step is right !!!	First off I have to say that I am a bit biased as &quot;That Which Survives&quot;, the episode that this is a sequel to, was one of my favourite shows. Having said that this is yet another recent Star Trek novel that continues the downward slide in the quality of story telling. Here we have a novel that takes 230 plus pages to tell a story that could have been told in 150. It is full of redundant padding, it has one of the most overused Star Trek cliches in the form of the interstellar transporter, the Klingon involvement is an utter waste of time, and the regular Enterprise crew seem to spend much of their time doing nothing. As for the ending it's just another attempt to improve sales by getting people to buy more than one book, but of course if the writing quality of recent Star Trek novels was any good there wouldn't be the problem of falling sales in the first place. Personally this novel, which seems aptly named, is another one that rather than being written seems to have been created by a replicator !!!	2001-08-26
US	51223889	R2A1X3IUY47U7G	0671774719	91318837	Section 31:  Cloak (Star Trek)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Dreary Rehash	After an interesting start this is yet another Star Trek novel that goes nowhere fast. The author combines a host of ideas from the various Star Trek incarnations in a regurgitated plot that lacks the heart and soul of the series. Still I have to say that this is typical of the kinds of Star Trek novels being written these days so perhaps I shouldn't be surprised. Once again an attempt to slot in an adventure into the existing Star Trek timeframe fails because of the inconsistencies in plot and characterisation that develop. For me this is another weak effort which is about as exciting as watching a tribble eat quadrotriticale !	2001-08-14
US	51223889	R1OZR3RBMCNZ2N	0743411315	51501995	Star Trek: Strange New Worlds IV	Books	1	1	12	N	N	Strange New Worlds  &quot;Forget It&quot; !!!	Well it is clear that this concept has long since run out of steam with this the fourth, and easily the weakest of the series. It boggles the mind that the garbage that is in this collection could be the best of the &quot;hundreds&quot; of submissions. In fact many of the stories in this collection are either pointless drivel or obvious plagarism from original scripts. (* I can't help wonder what the original writers of the shows must think when they see their ideas trashed by well meaning but misguided fans !) Of course much of the blame must be directed at the editors who choose the works that go into these books, as it was their job to assemble original, exciting and worthwhile contributions. Unfortunately this collection has few worthy efforts and as for a fifth book, well I think they should quit now, before they do any more damage to the Star Trek legend.	2001-08-06
US	51223889	R31OULSAWP1LBV	0399147462	58080034	Never Dream of Dying	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Never Dream of Buying !!!	The final part of Benson's Union trilogy fails to build on the previous work, &quot;Doubleshot&quot; (2000), and is another weak effort from him. I think the real problem lies in the fact that Benson just hasn't taken into account that the character of James Bond has moved on considerably from Fleming's original creation, and in order to keep pace with the cinematic version the novels need to have more action and excitement than ever before. John Gardner recognised this but tried to remain true to the literary Bond, not always successfully I'll admitt !!!, but Benson just doesn't seem to appreciate this. As a result he tends to write these limp thrillers that lack the pace of the movies, indeed the average pre-credit sequence of one of the films contains more excitement and spectacle than almost this entire novel. Also Benson has a terrible tendacy to treat Bond like a moron, taking far too long for 007 to put the pieces together in a plot that the average reader will have figured out after the first couple of chapters. The emphasis here is that Bond is an &quot;intelligence&quot; agent, not some &quot;stupid policeman&quot; (* as quoted by Dr No in the film !!!) and should NEVER be portrayed as such. Finally this novel has some surprising similarities to John Gardner's somewhat weak effort &quot;Never Send Flowers&quot; (1993), in that both involve the film industry in some respect and both end with a plot to blow up royalty !!! Sorry to say but at the price of hardback novels now this kind of effort just isn't worth it, so my advice to anyone considering buying this novel, wait for the paperback.	2001-06-19
US	51223889	REQC5JXVY8ABO	0753502186	188005754	The Bond Files: The Only Complete Guide to James Bond in Books, Films, TV and Comics	Books	1	2	5	N	N	The Only Thing &quot;00&quot; About This Is Its' Rating	As a huge fan of James Bond in all his various incarnations, I was interested to find a copy of this book the other day in a sale and purchased a copy. My doubts about its' value however began almost immediately, after all how serious can you take a claim that a book is the definitive account of a subject when the authors start by rubbishing their competitors. For the record there are a number of excellent &quot;glossy&quot; style books with flash pictures that are just as good, if not better reference books than this one. Also the number of different accounts of the James Bond phenomenon make it impossible for anyone to claim their version of events is right and everyone else is wrong. Top that off with the fact that the authors here give new meaning to the word &quot;nitpicking&quot;, but ironically while they mention some totally pointless trivia connected with various stories and movies, they actually managed to miss a number of other more important details. At the end of the day this is a comprehensive, though at times patronising, account of the world's greatest secret agent. But don't be fooled, there are better books around if you want, and don't be surprised if &quot;M&quot; puts out a 'terminate with extreme prejudice' order on these two authors !!!	2000-11-20
US	51223889	R1KRDJ3UOQLNPD	0671036521	79440302	Star Trek: Strange New Worlds III	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Better Effort	I was a bit disappointed with volume II in this series of fan written works, so it was with some trepidation that I bought volume III but I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. Although there still seems to be  slightly too much emphasis on redundant soap opera material, there is also  a wealth of truely interesting ideas in this collection as well. I still  think that the first volume in this series was the best but this third  outing is definitely a step up from volume II, and I was impressed enough  by the quality of writing this time round that I will certainly keep an eye  out for volume IV when it is published. This is deserving of a hearty  &quot;Well Done&quot; to most of the contributors.	2000-07-31
US	51223889	RG6BOQMND3CTO	0671026933	743326572	Strange New Worlds II (Star Trek: All) (Bk. 2)	Books	2	0	3	N	N	So What Went Wrong !	I really enjoyed the first volume in this series of fan written stories, but am now asking myself what went wrong with volume II !  Gone is much of the excitement, gone are the engrossing characters, and almost gone are the  &quot;Strange New Worlds&quot;. Instead the bulk of stories in this volume  are the kind of insipid, weak, soap opera drivel, that has turned many fans  away from Star Trek over the years. I realise that a certain percentage of  the market buy into that but I don't accept that it is the majority. If  things continue down this road the stories are likely to begin with :  &quot;Like tribbles through a transporter beam ... so are the days of our  lives ! &quot;	2000-07-17
US	51223889	RF6UGWC6JCE7L	0399146148	51614271	DoubleShot: The New James Bond Adventure	Books	2	1	1	N	N	So So &quot;00&quot;	Raymond Benson's latest 007 adventure is another one of his predictable potboilers, though it does have its moments. He seems to have stolen plot ideas from Fleming's classic &quot;From Russia With Love&quot; and combined  them with one of his average, and somewhat cliched, concepts. Still this  novel is one step up from the very disappointing &quot;High Time To  Kill&quot;, which started out well but never lived up to its potential.  Ironically Benson seems best when he is dealing with other peoples ideas,  as evidenced by the two excellent movie novelisations he has penned. So  this is hardly a classic but worth a read by fans of &quot;Bondage&quot;  !	2000-07-13
US	51223889	R3V657L2M69ZJV	0671014463	831257082	Strange New Worlds Star Trek	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fans Put Some Modern Writers To Shame	I was initially dubious about the concept of getting fans to write Star Trek stories for an anthology as over recent years the quality of Star Trek both on television, and in print, has been quite erratic. However this  first volume of stories proves that there are a number of fans out there  with great ideas and writing skills, and I agree with some reviewers who  claim that this book should be a wake up call to so-called  &quot;professional&quot; writers, whose modern style doesn't sit well with  older fans like myself. Star Trek is many things to many people, which this  collection reflects, but it should NEVER be just a soap opera in Starfleet  uniforms, which is often the modern trend. A thoroughly enjoyable  collection, and a worthwhile endeavour.	2000-07-12
