US	51220608	R3JKZUE2PXT6VK	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Time to Retire Dr Scarpetta	I have loved the Scarpetta novels for years. I ran to the bookstore to snatch the newest installment off the shelves and sat up reading way past what logic, employment, and grad school would allow. I'm not sure I will do that any longer.<br /><br />Trace lacks the energy of previous novels. The characters lack energy, the plot lacks energy, the dialogue lacks energy -- I'm beginning to think that Cornwell lacks energy. I agree with the previous reviewers that it seems that Cornwell no longer likes this character and it dragging this relationship past its limits. Perhaps it is in the interest of her fans..I know my personal feeling is that I don't want to see the Scarpetta novels end, but I'd rather she go out in a blaze of glory than the self-absorbed whimper Trace seems to be.<br /><br />If you're a Scarpetta fan, avoid this novel. If you haven't read Cornwell before, try some of her earlier work. I'd hate for one experience to turn you off her completely.	2005-04-17
US	51220608	REW7Y2P46OHET	0849917905	842265957	Black (The Circle Trilogy, Book 1) (The Books of History Chronicles)	Books	1	33	45	N	N	Suprisingly Slow	Black is a novel written around a theme.  This can be a good thing, if the story is well-constructed around that theme with strong characters and a solid plot.  Unfortunately Black has neither.<br />My first and most serious complaint about Black is that it's predictable. You see the plot twists way before the characters do, and in such a way that instead of building tension, the plot builds impatience for either something to happen (please!) or the book to end.<br />Second, the characters are two-dimensional. There is very little about any of them that makes them real, even Tom, the lead character, who more often irritated than inspired me. Most of the characters in the \\"ancient world\\" (or current world as it would seem to the reader) are little more than stereotypes.  You have the sister/mother/nurse character who takes care of Tom, the Shadow lurking behind his grand schemes, the hitman, the politician, etc.  While in a themed novel/allegory stereotypical characters are fairly standard, they still must be developed with enough personality to make them interesting.  The characters in the colored forest are even less compelling.<br />Third, while I am a huge Peretti and Dean Koontz fan (authors Mr. Dekker has been compared to, apparently) I don't see the resemblance.  Neither \\"reality\\" was all that engrossing, the classic battle between good and evil was virtually nonexistent, and I honestly couldn't suspend my disbelief long enough to get into this novel (not usually a problem).<br />There were also a lot of point-of-view changes between paragraphs that were at times disorienting.  The story is from Tom's perspective, but too often the thoughts and views of others intruded.  This is being nit-picky, but it's something my mentors have drilled into me for years.<br />I was looking forward to this read, and I must say I'm sorely disappointed.  I won't be finishing the series.	2005-01-08
US	51220608	R3QH9PS574CJ9B	0671041584	772744989	Blood Washes Blood: A True Story of Love, Murder, and Redemption Under the Sicilian Sun	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fantastic!	I highly recommend Blood Washes Blood.  While it may be a bit dark and heavy for a summer read, it is definitely worth any time or money spent in the endeavor.<br /><br />Mr. Viviano has a gift with non-fiction unlike any other writer of this genre I have ever read.  His story unfolds like a novel, fascinating in its characters and settings and yet all the more immediate because it is true.<br /><br />Mr. Viviano traces his family's history and his own journey of self-discovery through the winding streets of Sicily, uncovering a few secrets and finding even more along the way.<br /><br />At times his prose is almost too real, too painful and private, but it creates an intense bond with the reader.<br /><br />In short, don't pick up this book expecting a quick read.  Yes, it is riveting, but at times a little overwhelming as well.  The highest praise I can give Blood Washes Blood was that it left me with plenty to think about once it was finished, and a lingering interest in Sicily and its history.<br /><br />Mr. Vivano has had articles recently in publications such as National Geographic, and I highly recommend readers to search out more of his work.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-08-08
US	51220608	R3VFZGUZ1VSHNY	0399237240	940782413	Loamhedge - A Tale From Redwall, Book 16	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not My Favorite	I am a HUGE fan of Mr. Jaques and the Redwall series, but Loamhedge simply didn't do it for me.<br /><br />As other reviewers have noted, this is not a book about Loamhedge itself, but a story partly about a journey to the abandoned abbey to find a remedy for a young hare who is unable to walk.  I found this to be a bit of a disappointment.  Loamhedge continues to linger on the periphery of the Redwall series, and perhaps one day we will hear its tale in full.  One can only hope.<br /><br />There were the usual endearing characters that Mr. Jaques is so proficient at creating (the otters, Martha, the dibbuns, Lonna, etc), but this time I found too many of the main players to be grating and difficult to like.  Horty and his companions in particular tried my patience, which is highly unfortunate since the majority of the book focuses on them.<br /><br />Overall, the story is adventurous and well-paced, full of action and excellent dialogue.  On occasion the plot was a tad bit predictable, but not necessarily to the detriment of the tale.<br /><br />Loamhedge occupies a well-deserved place on my shelf with the rest of the Redwall series, just not quite as prominent a ranking.	2004-08-08
US	51220608	R2K7K5QJ1NQCCA	0375926682	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance, Book 1)	Books	5	28	41	N	N	Nothing New Under the Sun	Okay people, give Christopher a break.  Of course it's been done before.  EVERYTHING has been done before, especially in the Fantasy and Science Fiction genre.  There just aren't a whole lot of options here.  (Trust me, as a writer, I know.)<br /><br />I happen to think that Eragon is very well written.  Mr. Paolini has an astounding grasp of dialogue and sets a scene better than a lot of authors old enough to be his parents (if not his grandparents even).  His characters have depth, including flaws, and come across very three-dimensional instead of the paper cut-out roles I've read in many similar novels.<br /><br />This book is well-paced.  It doesn't drag despite the distance and time covered by the characters.  Mr. Paolini's fantasy world is well-constructed and believable.<br /><br />There is plenty of action, although it lacks a lot of the gore that Fantasy authors tend to fill their pages with.  Not a bad thing at all from my perspective.<br /><br />I am looking forward to the continuation of the series, and whatever Mr. Paolini may have up his sleeve in the future.  He is a swiftly rising talent, and I expect we will see a lot more of him.	2004-08-08
US	51220608	R1DJJ0QSLTZR88	0767904133	8015663	Close to Shore: A True Story of Terror in An Age of Innocence	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fantastic Summer Read	I was initially turned on to Close to Shore when I read an excerpt of it in a magazine (I think.  I can't quite remember where it was.).  Not usually a non-fiction fan, I was intrigued by the subject matter, and the tone of the book.<br />I've read a few of the previous reviews, and I would like to respond to aspects of this book that some readers found detrimental.  First, a lot of people have complained about the lack of action in the beginning of the book, and the overall tone.  As a reader who for the most part sticks to fiction, I found the pace and tone to be just right.  I enjoyed learning some of the backgrounds of people involved in this event, as well as getting a glimpse of what the Jersey coast was like in 1916.  I wasn't expecting page after page of shark attacks, and if that's what you want, Close to Shore is not the book for you.<br />Mr. Capuzzo does an excellent job of filling out the individuals and places touched by the shark roaming the East Coast that summer.  What could have come off as a dry, text-book style tome is instead a glimpse into the lives of the famous, infamous, and unknowns of the time.  I enjoyed this book as much for the social history as the terrifying experiences it revolves around.<br />One note, and the reason I gave 4 stars instead of 5:  I was disappointed by the lack of pictures.  Not gory pictures of attack victims or eviscerated sharks per se, but photos of the Engleside, or the E&amp;S, or of those who experienced this summer in the most intimate ways.  Surely there were year book pictures of young Charles Vansant, photos of the boardwalks, snapshots of the townspeople and vacationers.  Mr. Capuzzo mentions all of these, but unfortunately does not include them for us to see for ourselves.  Granted, I have a vivid imagination, but knowing the reality of these people and places would have made Close to Shore all the more immediate and engaging.<br />Other than that, I recommend Close to Shore for a little beach or poolside reading.  Approach it like a good summer novel, not a case-by-case account of shark attacks and you should be fine.g.  Approach it like a good summer novel, not a case-by-case account of shark attacks and you should be fine.	2004-06-12
US	51220608	R2UDSFDB1A19W0	0142003190	388495856	A Noble Radiance (Guido Brunetti, No 7)	Books	1	12	43	N	N	Disappointing first taste	This is the first Donna Leon book I've read, and I doubt I will be reading more.  I've glanced through the other reviews that were posted, and I must say, I'm quite shocked.  How this book is an international best seller is beyond me.<br />First, A Noble Radiance was extremely dull.  I found myself skipping entire chapters just so I could finish (I can't just stop reading a book, even if it's awful -- I have to finish it).  There was no tension, no characters to really care about, no suspense.  The plot was completely transparent from the very beginning, and the end was so weak I wished I hadn't read the book at all.<br />Second, there were way too many Italian phrases with too little translation.  I could make my way through a lot of them, thanks in part to the languages I do understand, but Italian is just not one I've had time to master.  Some contexual assistance would have helped, but just throwing a phrase out there and expecting the majority of readers to understand it isn't fair.<br />A big peeve of mine is spelling errors and grammatical issues in best selling books.  If it's a best seller, you should have a proofreader for the paperback.  I can think of three obvious misspellings off the top of my head, and some of the sentence structures were incomprehensible.<br />Overall, I found A Noble Radiance a complete disappointment.  The cover is pretty, but that's about all the inspiration it holds.	2003-12-28
US	51220608	R1SLLHB8PXZE1L	B00007E9RG	43010755	Rebecca's Tale	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Bright, Beautiful, and Dangerous	I have never read the orignal Rebecca, nor have I really ever been acquainted with Daphne du Marier.  Despite, or more likely because, of this I found Rebecca's Tale captivating.  A previous reviewer recommended this book be approached as \\"just another novel\\" instead of as a sequel, and I think this is a wise perspective.  I was able to enjoy Ms. Beauman's work on her own merit, not in comparison to a classic.<br />First, even if Ms. Beaumont is copying du Marier's style, she has mastered it wonderfully.  Her prose is all-encompassing.  I read a lot, and this is the first book in a long time that has really drawn me in so deeply I haven't wanted to put it down.  The characters are well-drawn, and the tone is overall that of a story told, not a story read.  Each section has it's own voice and pace, and I never found myself lost in the merging lines of the tale as so often happens in mutltiple-perspective novels.<br />Second, some reviewers have complained about how contemporary this novel comes across.  I have to disagree...I think it is more a novel that could apply to any timeframe, not simply the one it is meant for or the one it is read in.  The situations and relationships that are explored within its pages are as old as time itself, and will be the fabric of the future as well.  In truth, I sometimes felt that the story existed somehow outside of time...in that strange limbo that well-executed literature sometimes inhabits.<br />I'm in no way saying I loved every word of every page.  There were things I didn't agree with, turns I thought the story should have gone and didn't, secrets that should have been seen through earlier, etc.  But you find that in every book -- nothing is perfect.  Toward the end I feel it did get a little heavy-handed regarding sexual preferences, but again, this is in no way a new issue (as so many seem to believe).<br />I would strongly recommend reading Rebecca's Tale BEFORE you read Rebecca.  I intend to read the original just as soon as possible and see how I feel this \\"sequel\\" compares.  I will, however, continue to applaud this book on its own merit, and am looking forward to reading more by Ms. Beauman.n as possible and see how I feel this \\"sequel\\" compares.  I will, however, continue to applaud this book on its own merit, and am looking forward to reading more by Ms. Beauman.	2003-12-20
US	51220608	R21ZMIRJN0KLXB	0743201485	62211306	The Will	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good effort	I wasn't aware of a lot of the comparisons to Grisham that many people have made regarding Reed Arvin.  That's probably a good thing, since I'm one of the very few people on this planet that doesn't care for the king of legal fiction.<br />I found The Will an okay read; not earth-shattering, but not awful, either.  Some of the characters, like lead man Henry and the Birdman are painted clearly and convincingly, although their motives are not always plausible.  On the other hand, many of the secondary characters (Amanda, Elaine, Sarah...particularly female characters) exist mainly as cardboard cutouts.  There's very little depth, and still less reason to care about them.<br />There were some fine points in the plot...great idea, the town eccentric suddenly all but owning the town...but far too much downtime in between.  I found myseld losing the thread of the story while jumping from place to place, character to character.  Often I think not knowing quite so much about what was happening behind the scenes would have increased the tension and bettered the pace of the whole novel.  There are very few surprises, and all in all this book marches toward a fairly predictable ending.<br />It is evident that Mr. Arvin's first love is not writing fiction, but I must commend him on the lovely turns of phrase that are sprinkled throughout this work.  Kudos for the creativity.	2003-11-27
US	51220608	RUXRA0BPE08KL	0399146008	157310859	Shock	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Shock-ingly awful	I have been a huge fan of Cook for a long time, but I probably won't pick up his next book.  Shock was an absoultely appaling novel.<br />There are so many things wrong with this book that it is difficult to know where to begin.  I guess perhaps the compelte implausibility of the plot would be a start.  I can't believe Cook thought anyone would buy this story.  I have worked in human resource positions, and there are very few laboratories or clinics that would hire new employees without verifying Social Security numbers (I would say none do, but I'm sure I could be proven wrong).  The ridiculous nature of the story simply continues from there.<br />My second huge complaint is the dialogue, especially between the two graduate students at the center of the novel.  I don't know any graduate students who talk in the stilted, superficial way these two characters do.  What ever happened to spontaneity?  Slang?  CONJUNCTIONS????  The dialogue is horrid!  I can't remember the last time I read something so uncreative.<br />Finally, is the buzz I hear about a sequel true?  God forbid!  If a publisher has agreed to a sequel to this book, I won't feel sorry if they go under in the future.  Editors and publishers are supposed to protect us from drivel like this, not inflict it upon us.<br />DON'T read this book.  Read one of Cook's earlier works, like Coma or Fever, even Toxin for that matter.  You'll be much better off.	2003-10-12
US	51220608	REGZ28LKVX0GG	0399229469	737198250	Pearls of Lutra (Redwall)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A swashbuckling tale!	The Pearls of Lutra revolves around several central characters.  First and foremost is Tansy the hedgehog.  It is she who undertakes the quest to find the hidden pearls, and her sections of the book are filled with the usual enderaing Redwall dialects, characters, and riddles.  The riddles were fun without being incredibly difficult to solve...children would have a good time thinking them over to see if they can figure it out before Tansy and her friends.<br />Martin the second makes a return appearance, this time setting out to rescue kidnapped Redwallers.  He proves to be his dependable self, protecting the innocent and bringing the vilians to their knees.<br />Grath Longfletch is an otter bent on bringing vengeance on the corsairs that slaughtered her family.<br />I could go on and on about so many of the characters in this book:  owls, hares, the Guosim shrews, seals, and more!<br />I enjoyed this book for the most part.  The only drawback is that I found the varying storylines more distracting than usual.  There are always a lot of things going on in Redwall books, but it was difficult to keep things straight this time.  Perhaps the similarity in the names of several characters was part of it.	2003-08-14
US	51220608	RQTVRCG8JRBNZ	0439297540	425167169	Milly And The Macy's Parade	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exquisite!	Trust me!  The pictures don't do this book justice!<br />Corey does an excellent job of capturing the magic of the holiday through a child's eyes.  She also makes an effort to show how even a child can make a big difference in the world around her if she has the courage to act on what she believes.<br />I fell in love with Helquist's artwork while reading the Series of Unfortunate Events.  There's something about the whimsical nature of his drawings....the sharp features, the minute details, the mystical feeling about them.  I almost expect Milly to wink at me from the cover!<br />All in all this is an inspiring book, and a fitting opener to the holiday season.  This one's sure to be a family favorite, so don't let it get away!	2003-08-05
US	51220608	R1JHHBNM7280SB	0446611239	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Just not quite there....	I am a HUGE Preston &amp; Child fan, and read everything they write just as soon as I can get my hands on it.  Cabinet of Curiosities, however, I found to be slightly disappointing.  But first, the good.<br />It was wonderful to see Nora Kelly back again.  I grew quite fond of her in Thunderhead.  Agent Pendergast is one of my all-time favorite literary characters, and he brought his Southern charm to the scene as always.  Finally, while Smithback isn't quite as appealing, his daring exploits kept me on the edge of my seat, wondering how he manages to get away with it all.  Great characters!<br />Next, I have always loved the setting of the Natural History Museum.  No other place seems quite as wondrous or other-worldy.  I've never been there myself, and even though I'm sure Preston &amp; Child have taken liberties, I cannot wait to roam its halls.  One of these days......<br />The twist at the end caught me unawares.  I had quite a bit of the mystery figured out, but that final piece...the identity of the Surgeon...blew me out of the water.  Way to go, guys!  When you read as many mysteries as I do it gets easier to see the clues scattered in the prose, but I was totally in the dark for this one.<br />Now for the bad.  It took a little too long to get into the meat of the mystery.  Too much time spent chasing inconsequential leads, and too many pages wasted on irritating, distracting characters (Custer).  I was totally disappointed in the ending.  It feels as if Preston &amp; Child were just ready to be done, without remaining true to the overall feel of the story.  It kind of reminds me of another book I've reviewed recently in which the manner of death of major characters seems an afterthought, instead of a carefully planned event.<br />I will continue to wait impatiently for new offerings by this dynamic duo, despite the slight letdown.  My faith remains in their incredible research and their ability to ratchet up the tension until you think you'll explode.  Overall Cabinet of Curiosities is a good read...I could have used a 1/2 star to make my rating a bit more positive.verall Cabinet of Curiosities is a good read...I could have used a 1/2 star to make my rating a bit more positive.	2003-08-02
US	51220608	R1JEU5SAHEDXBQ	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Disappointed	Oh, J.K., what have you done?<br />First of all, this book could have been about an inch thinner.  The beginning chapters and the last five or so were enough without the pages and pages of dragging, boring, uncreative prose in between.  I have never skimmed a Harry book before, but I found myself doing it quite frequently in OOTP.  The dialogue is stilted, with characters I've come to love acting in completely bizarre ways.  Teenage angst is one thing (trust me, I'm not that long out of it myself) but for the majority of this book I simply did not like Harry, and that was hard for me.  I was one of the few people who identified with Hermione...at least until now.  I found her an irritating, whiny pest in this book.  Everyone seems to have nothing better to do but whine and complain.  I see enough of that in real life.<br />Second, character development took a major downswing in this addition to the Harry Potter series.  Most characters either seem to sit and stagnate (most of the teachers) or actually revert to less dimensional forms (most of the students, Dumbledore).  And as other reviewers have noted, there is absolutely no depth to Umbridge.  I couldn't care less about her character, and most of my skimming had to do with her sections.  BORING!<br />Third, plot holes!!!!  I found the book to be most poorly written in regard to plot: a) there was nothing to keep it going...no underlying sense of unease or evil at work, no mysterious happenings, nothing that really made a difference.  b)no real reason to care.  c) no resolution...TO ANYTHING.  We even have to wait until Book 6 to find out how the O.W.L.s went!!!!<br />Fourth, I am very very very disappointed in which character was \\"killed off\\" and how that came about.  There really was no why and it didn't serve much of a purpose.  Of all the ridiculous, anticlimactic deaths!  J.K. couldn't even afford the character (of whom I was particularly fond) a dignified death!!!  And as many other reviewers have said, the major fight scene was very poorly written...another skimming point.<br />As a children's literature writer myself, I am incredibly proud of J.K. and the steps she's made to further this genre.  She has proven that dark subjects can be tackled and very long novels can be written and children WILL READ THEM!  This is so important to the literary world in general.  I have a great deal of respect for her in this instance.<br />However, there are some things I simply don't agree with.  Many characters' insistence to cling to grudges and torment each other \\"for the fun of it\\" without any discussion of the consequences for all involved does nothing to encourage a sense of morals or compassion in children.  What do we need more in this world than a desire to make it a better place?  Also, I found the increased use of questionable language and references to major characters swearing diappointing.  Please don't think I'm some kind of upstanding citizen who thinks swearing should be banned...there is a time and a place and sometimes it's just the right word for the situation.  But I don't think that we should be teaching young people that swearing is okay, anytime anywhere.  That's one of my biggest pet peeves in children's lit...and it seems to be getting worse.<br />If you've gotten this far, thanks for hearing me out.  I will read 6 & 7, but at this point simply to finish out the series.  I hope they are better than 5.major fight scene was very poorly written...another skimming point.<br />As a children's literature writer myself, I am incredibly proud of J.K. and the steps she's made to further this genre.  She has proven that dark subjects can be tackled and very long novels can be written and children WILL READ THEM!  This is so important to the literary world in general.  I have a great deal of respect for her in this instance.<br />However, there are some things I simply don't agree with.  Many characters' insistence to cling to grudges and torment each other \\"for the fun of it\\" without any discussion of the consequences for all involved does nothing to encourage a sense of morals or compassion in children.  What do we need more in this world than a desire to make it a better place?  Also, I found the increased use of questionable language and references to major characters swearing diappointing.  Please don't think I'm some kind of upstanding citizen who thinks swearing should be banned...there is a time and a place and sometimes it's just the right word for the situation.  But I don't think that we should be teaching young people that swearing is okay, anytime anywhere.  That's one of my biggest pet peeves in children's lit...and it seems to be getting worse.<br />If you've gotten this far, thanks for hearing me out.  I will read 6 & 7, but at this point simply to finish out the series.  I hope they are better than 5.	2003-07-27
US	51220608	R1TUGRUV92AY5R	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fair	I'm going to make this short and sweet.  Stilted dialogue, shallow characters, good plot but Preston doesn't do it justice.  I didn't get really interested until the last 5 chapters or so, and most people won't make it that far.	2003-02-25
US	51220608	R14CQEVYPU185K	027642445X	583767689	Exploring the Unknown (Reader's Digest)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An interesting reference	I picked this book up on a whim, and although I'm not really disappointed in it, I'm not exactly ecstatic either.  I've always been fascinated with unexplained phenomena, and I appreciate that this book takes a fairly objective view of many so-called &quot;supernatural&quot; events.  I really liked the first half or so, probably because I'm interested in folk tales and legends and there's a nice cross-cultural representation.  The book even gives some explanations for certain events, or admits that as yet no one knows how or why some things occurred.<br />My one complaint is that some of the entries could have been a little more in-depth.  This is great as a reference book -- useful for getting a quick overview of an event or phenomena, but really only leads you into further questions to research.	2003-02-17
US	51220608	R278TMBOC0R7HR	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Strangely Amusing	Get over it, people!  So it isn't another Kay Scarpetta novel.  BIG DEAL!  It's nice to see an author I'm fond of venture into new territory on occasion.<br />I have read nearly every novel available by Patricia Cornwell, and yes, I did enjoy Isle of Dogs.  Then again, I have a weird sense of humor and found talking seafood incredibly amusing.  Yeah, a lot of the characters are odd, but don't you know some pretty freaky people if you think about it?  As opposed to other reviewers, I understood the connection between the Trooper Truth essays and the overall novel.  And I learned some interesting things in the process.<br />My main point is that Isle of Dogs was never intended to be another novel in the vein of Scarpetta.  It is humorous, quaint, strange, and absorbing.  Don't let other reviews throw you off.  I enjoyed this book, and yes, I would definitely recommend it.  Just make sure you have the right mindset going in.  And please, don't overthink it!	2003-01-08
US	51220608	RH35814XISALI	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Yawn	I guess I should have thought harder about the review that claimed &quot;A great beach read!&quot;  Then I would have known to not take this book very seriously.  I occasionally had trouble staying awake while reading it.<br />I'm a Patterson fan, but Beach House just didn't do it for me.  I didn't care about any of the characters.  As a previous reviewer stated, the main character gets more and more annoying as time goes on.  From time to time I got confused as to how much time had passed between chapters...the book covers a much longer timeframe than I expected.  Often the plot seemed contrived and completely unrealistic.  Overall, I'm glad it's over, although those last few chapters were a struggle.  If you're a Patterson fan, skip this one.  If you've never read him before...still skip it.  I'd hate for you to get turned off so quickly.	2003-01-06
US	51220608	R1EFGBVFNF0SXA	0609808524	287461929	The Book of Ratings: Opinions, Grades, and Assessments of Everything Worth Thinking About	Books	5	8	9	N	N	He speaks my language!	I bought this book after my best friend and I nearly got kicked out of a bookstore because we were laughing so hard.  Lore uses words like \\"bask\\", and adds suffixes like \\"-ish\\" and \\"-ness\\" whenever he wants.  It's great!  It's how my friends and I talk!  It annoys people who don't get it!  The only thing that would make it better is if it came packaged with a Pez dispenser featuring Lore.  Now that would make it an A+.  Due to its current lack of accompanying somewhat-strawberry flavored sugar bricks, I must give it an A.  But a big A.  A huge, towering A.	2003-01-06
US	51220608	R2V7E1PY41KF2P	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Good Enough	After Point of Origin, I was a bit worried about the last two Scarpetta novels that continued the saga.  Black Notice managed to revive my interest, and Last Precinct is keeping me fairly well interested.<br />I understand a lot of reader's complaining about Kay's tendency to wallow in self-pity, and the fact that the plots aren't quite what they used to be, and I'll admit I've been disappointed with a few things.  But come on guys.  Life changes, we change, and unfortunately our favorite characters change.<br />Change is what The Last Precinct is all about.  Several shocking changes, in fact.  Our favorite medical examiner is closing a door on one aspect of her life, and moving on, possibly, to brighter horizons.<br />Yes, all of our favorite friends and enemies are here, just not as much in the spotlight as usual.  We see a new side of several of them, and I think this novel was more a bit of soul-searching on Kay's part that we get to snoop in on.<br />The plot was a twisting, turning maze, and I was well satisfied by the mental tension, even though the action was a bit more toned down.  I was surprised when the &quot;bad guys&quot; are unmasked, and a few connections caught me completely unaware.  That isn't the true end of the story, however.<br />The purpose of Last Precinct is to prepare us for Kay's complete life change, and personally, I think it's about time.  I won't give it away, but hopefully Kay is branching out, and we will see her personal relationships become much heathier and more meaningful in the future.  Even if it's for only one more book.<br />So, would I recommend it?  Yes, to long-time Scarpetta fans.  Not so much to newcomers, as there is too much change and you might get lost.  The last few books have really been meaningless unless you have the background necessary to know who's who.  Overall, I enjoyed it, and I think it's worth the time.	2001-01-08
US	51220608	R1UBVHH7ALXRZO	068931972X	250289508	The Malachite Palace	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gorgeous	&quot;The Malachite Palace&quot; is a beautiful book about friendship and respect.  The little princess is not allowed to play with the common children outside because they are &quot;rude&quot; and &quot;ignorant&quot;, according to her lady-in-waiting, governess, and the queen.  One day she finds a little yellow bird, and decides to keep it for a friend.  But being in the cage makes the little bird weak and sad, and the princess must find a way to set the bird free, and in doing so, show the women that watch over her that she cannot grow or be happy unless she is allowed to have friends.<br />The illustrations in this book are exquisite, almost ethereal.  It is a treasure for any children's library, and sure to be a favorite.	2001-01-07
US	51220608	RL10UEVNSY7M4	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Classic Literary Fiction (Literally)	I was given &quot;Death in Venice&quot; by a close friend.  Scary how well she knows me.  It was the perfect gift.<br />&quot;Death in Venice&quot; is a collection of eight of Thomas Mann's best short stories.  Usually, I'm not really one for short stories, as most times I find myself hanging at the end and disappointed in the development of the plots and characters.  I was not disappointed with this book.<br />Through his eight stories, Mann explores many aspects of human nature...most notably love.  Each story has a different theme, but there is an underlying passion for life and meaningful relationships that fills each tale with beauty and a bittersweet longing.  Topics in this collection range from a look at the world from the view of a young artist, a man's respect for the family pet that worships him, a stark look at an incestuous relationship between twins, a family trip to Venice gone awry, and many others.<br />My only difficulty is that the language used is a bit more obscure than most of us are used to.  I hadn't realized how important commas were, and there usefulness was proven by the lack of them in Mann's work.  Usage and structure was different at the time of these writings, however, and not much time is needed to adjust.<br />I would recommend &quot;Death in Venice&quot; to anyone who enjoys classic literature, or who enjoys reading the work of someone who is passionate about what they do and how they live.  It is definitely worth the time invested.	2001-01-07
US	51220608	R7O7XOYI09QCE	0446607177	11618814	Riptide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intriguing...most of the time	I picked up this book at a local bookstore because I'd read a few Lincoln/Child books before, and liked their work.  I was surprised to find it to be based of the Oak Island legend, which I had just recently read an article about, and that piqued my curiosity.  Overall, I was fairly satisfied with the story, but there were a few weak points.<br />First, I'll say good things.  I liked the premise of the story.  It's been a while since I've read anything about hunting for treasure, so it was a nice break.  You don't see a lot of books on that anymore.  Malin Hatch was an interesting character, with plenty of guilt and dysfunction to make him human, and brave enough when it counted.  Riptide actually kept my attention fairly well, which is an accomplishment.  I love to read, but that plot had better keep moving.<br />Now, a few of the weaker points.  Many of the characters were not developed well enough, and seemed to be mere fillers.  In fact, I think Hatch was the only character the authors seemed really in touch with.  That can make for some fairly disappointing reading.  I also could have done without quite so graphic a description of being crushed to death(no, I won't tell you who), so if you're at all weak-stomached, skip that part.  Finally, the end was a total let down.  All this tension was built up throughout the book, only to be resolved in about a paragraph, and it wasn't a scary resolution.  No exploding monsters, like in Relic.  That was the major disappointment for me.  Not the exploding monsters part, but the fact that the ending was so weak.<br />Despite my complaints, I would still give it 5 stars.  Well, I'd give it 4 1/2 if that was an option.  It was a great read, awesome for curling up in a blanket in a comfy chair and letting the hours slip by.  If you like mystery, archaeology, or treasure hunting, this is probably a good book for you.	2000-12-12
US	51220608	R2B6ESMKRS2NRN	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Mind-Blowing Trip Into the Dark	Wow!  I'm going to have to read this one several more times, maybe even write a page-by-page analysis on it, just for the heck of it.  This was an incredible book.  There's really no way to give a synospis of the story line (um, which story?), or really go into depth about my feelings for the characters (um, which characters?), there's just too much here to write about, and it would take way too much time and space to do it.<br />This book is so deep, so disturbing, and so fabulous, it has instantly moved to the top of my favorite books list.  I recommend you read it, whoever you are, whatever your interests are.  It will spur your imagination, and leave you wondering about life long into the night.  Not to mention looking carefully at every dark space to be sure it isn't expanding.<br />So go!  Buy the book, read the book, become changed by the book, and by all means, write in the margins!	2000-11-28
US	51220608	R3JM6SHEY2SSGX	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	1	15	19	N	N	Not a winner	I've read several of Oprah's book recommendations, and have been very satisfied with her selections until now.  I have been completely disappointed in this book from the first page.  I am on page 161 now, and although I will finish it, I'm not really all that into the story.  The book has an interesting premise:  an Irani Colonel who buys a house at an auction to try to restore his family's faith in him, Kathy Nicolo whose life is falling apart (first her husband leaves, then she loses her house to the county's mistake), and their ensuing battle for ownership of the small, one-story, L-shaped house with a hedge-lined yard on Bisgrove.<br />The unfortunate thing is the actual telling of the story.  Mr. Dubus does have a good grip on the use of the English language, and there are some shining moments in his prose, but seeing as his first book was a compilation of short stories, and he has won awards for his short stories, and this book feels like it should have been a short story, he should have stuck with that format.  My major complaints are lack of suspense (despite what all the critics have said), a lack of humor in this dark, depressing, drag-down book (please, just one moment to laugh at somewhere), and the fact that the only characters I have come to feel any emotion for (other than complete revulsion) is the Behrani family, and Mr. Dubus gives them the raw end of just about everything in this book.  I'm sure the Persian friend he asked for help in the accuracy of the the Behranis was thrilled with their portrayal.  Give me a break.<br />In closing, I believe there are many other worthwhile books you could spend your time and money on, and really you should pass this one over.  I'm sorry I wasted my time and money on it.	2000-11-28
US	51220608	R2PMGPBDGZ5CI3	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good read.	I so very much wanted to give this book five stars, being a huge Hoag fan  and all, but I just couldn't.  Before I get into the &quot;don't  likes&quot;, though, I will say some good things about it.<br />I like that  Kovac and Liska were brought back for a novel of their own.  In Ashes to  Ashes I found them to be refreshing, creative, realistic characters that I  cared about, even if they weren't in the spotlight all that much.  Now that  they are the prominent characters in Dust to Dust, I really got a feel for  them and their everyday lives, and look forward to visiting them again in  the future, if Tami would be nice enough to write about them again.<br />Sam  Kovac is gruff and hard, but endearing at the same time.  You want to root  for him to get the best in life, but somehow you now he'll just get a  taste.<br />Nikki Liska is hard-working and tough, and you have to love her  nickname of Tinks once you get to know her.<br />As usual, the book was  structured well, very realistic, and keep me reading to end, nonstop.<br />Now  for the not-so-positive opinions.  For some reason, I find her Minnesota  books not quite as intriguing as the ones set in Louisiana.  You can tell  how much she loves Cajun culture and language in previous books, and for  some reason, she doensn't quite have the same passion for those based  further North.<br />Also, the end wasn't as much of a surprise as usual, the  tension didn't seem to be racheted higher and higher toward the end as  usual.  Yes, it gets very intense, but usually it's almost hard to breathe  as you read.<br />I don't know.  It was a good book, but didn't captivate me  nearly as much as previous books, even Ashes to Ashes, which I found to be  amazing.  I would still reccommend Dust to Dust to anyone though, even my  mother who is about to start it.  Maybe she'll have a different  perspective.  Either way, I hope you enjoy it too.	2000-09-05
US	51220608	R2XZU12WNSQL10	1564767566	737055949	Wings of Dawn	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent!	After reading this book (basically not being able to put it down) I went  out and bought another copy for a friend.  Mr. Brouwer has done an  incredible job in writing this book.  I put it in the top five of my  reccommendations.<br />Wings of Dawn starts of fast-paced and interesting, and  throws you right into the middle of the action.  From there it is basically  nonstop adventure.  Journey with young Thomas as he travels England and the  Holy Land, wondering just who he can trust and who he can't in a  generations-long war between secret associations.  Who is he really?  And  what is his true purpose?  Find out as you travel along with him.<br />This  book is loaded with charactes you can really root for, intrigue, logic, and  good-over-evil battle.  I would reccomend it to anyone, young and old  alike.  I am a HUGE fan of Stephen Lawhead, and I would rank Wings of Dawn  right up there with the Pendragon Cycle and the Warlords of Nin.  Very high  praise indeed!	2000-08-10
US	51220608	R2F4Z9NH2EM7NU	0785269053	652593388	The Stamp of Glory: A Novel of the Abolitionist Movement	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Could have been better.	I don't want to fault Mr. Stafford on his book.  Overall, it was well  done, well researched, and very accurate.  I found the whole premise very  believeable, and there were characters I was able to care about, mainly  Catherine, Thomas Nichols, and Tommy.  I had a very hard time finishing  this book, though, and that is extremely unusual for me.  While I  appreciate how much was occuring during the time span of Stamp of Glory,  and the very important political and religious figures that were relevant  to the story line, there was just too much going on between chapters on  main characters.  I went long stretches wondering where Catherine and Tommy  were, and spent long minutes skimming through speeches and sermons.  Toward  the latter part of the book, Catherine and Tommy disappear altogether until  he is grown.  There were too many characters I didn't care anything about,  too many speeches and sermons, that (although I'm sure are very important  and relevant) bored me to tears.  Toward the end I didn't find the novel  gripping -- I found myself skimming entire chapters looking for anything of  interest.  My dislike for Thomas Nichols merely grew throughout the book,  and then resolution wasn't particularly redeeming for me.<br />I guess I just  expected more.  I started my historical fiction reading with authors like  Gilbert Morris, and next to those, this book just doesn't cut it.  It's  okay for a read if you need something to do, but I can't reccommend it  otherwise.  Sorry.	2000-08-10
US	51220608	R32GU1IBEZF5MQ	006251136X	865988133	Companion To Narnia	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Excellent source of infomation	I received Companion to Narnia, as well as a boxed set of the Chronicles themselves, as a birthday gift.  I must say it was one of the best gifts I have ever received.<br />I initially read the Chronicles as a young child, then again in Jr. High.  I'm afraid I let my passion for the stories slip  through my high school years, just when I needed them most, but now, after  my third year of college, I have renewed my interest in the works of Mr.  Lewis.<br />The Companion is easy to use, extremely informative, and actually  fun to read straight through, even without using it as a reference.  The  entries are encyclopedia-style, alphabetically listed, with the page  numbers the entry appears on in the Chronicles, related entries, and often  very extensive footnotes referring the reader to books and articles by Mr.  Lewis and other renowned Fanstasy and Religious authors, as well as  background into what specific uses could have meant to the author, or his  inspirations for them.<br />There are annexes at the end on everything to how  old the Pevensie children and others are in the books, Narnia time vs Earth  time, the age of Lewis during the writing of the Chronicles, maps of Narnia  and more.  Wonderful illustrations are distributed throughout the book,  just waiting to surprise you when you turn the page.<br />I would HIGHLY  recommend this book to any lover of Narnia, whether it's your first time  around or your fortieth.  A lot of questions I remember having when I was  younger are answered, and you gain a deeper meaning of what it &quot;behind  everyone's story&quot;.	2000-06-13
US	51220608	RSIKZXBV14YYF	0061050342	45864162	The Black Rood (The Celtic Crusades #2)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A worthy sequel	Lawhead has done it again in proving his mastery of book series.  Rarely have I seen the plots of several books tied together so well as in the Pendragon Cycle, and the Celtic Crusades is shaping up to be just as well  done.<br />Contrary to previous reviewers, I had no trouble picking the story  line right up despite the lack of reference to the previous book, The Iron  Lance.  I don't remember there being any &quot;backtracking&quot; in the  Pendragon Cycle either.  The history of the story seems to come out in bits  and pieces as Duncan follows his father, Murdo's, footsteps through the  Holy Land, then branches off into his own travels.  If you have read the  previous book, you know the history, and memory is refreshed in a way that  saves the reader the redundancy that is often hard to avoid, there is no  wasting of a lot of space and time covering what is already known.  If you  have not read The Iron Lance, as much history as is logical is presented to  you as Duncan learns of it, in a way, you discover Duncan's past with  him.<br />I agree in that a few of the characters could have been a little  more &quot;fleshed out&quot;, and I found this a rare lapse in Lawhead's  prose.  Usually we come to know each character intimately, to the point  that they feel like old friends, but the only character I really felt that  with in this book was Duncan.  I would have liked to hear more from Padraig  and Sydoni, as I found them fascinating and was left without getting to  know them as well as I would have liked.<br />The plot, however, is  well-paced, dialogue easy to read, and overall very believeable.  It  reminded me at times of Byzantium, a very extensive work by Lawhead, and a  high recommendation on my part.<br />Overall, I would recommend The Black Rood  to new and old readers of Lawhead alike, though I would caution new readers  to buy The Iron Lance first, if only for continuity.	2000-06-12
US	51220608	R1JKE5LL9VWMMQ	0441004873	804749242	Wizards of Odd	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Not quite what was expected, but intriguing nonetheless	I ordered Wizards of Odd because I like Fantasy and Science Fiction, and I needed something to read on vacation.  The book is divided into three parts:  Wizards and Wotsits, Stories of Comic Absurdity; Swords and  Sorcery, Tales of Heroic Fantasy; Astonauts and Aliens, Space Opera Yarns.  Each part has eight stories by renowned Fantasy and Science Fiction  authors, names like Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett, C.S. Lewis, and H.G.  Wells, as well as many others, tweny-four in all.<br />I found many of the  stories to be amusing and fairly intriguing, covering a range of topics  from time travel to aliens to dragons and mythical beasts.  My only  complaint is that it was not as funny as I had expected.  The book claims  to be a &quot;delightful collection of comic science fiction and  fantasy&quot;, but I only found half (if that) of the stories to even make  me smile.<br />It is a good read nonetheless.  Entertaining, great for an  afternoon by the pool.  The stories read quickly, and you can easily finish  three or more in a sitting, without realizing you've done so.  I would  recommend it to lovers of fantasy and science fiction, particularly if you  are familiar with the authors featured.<br />One last note:  I really  appreciated the short bio on each of the authors at the beginning of their  stories.  You get to know a bit about them before reading their work, and  it makes it all that much more interesting.	2000-06-07
US	51220608	R2OPDWCKGU1CV3	0425169863	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	What?	Normally I really enjoy Patricia Cornwell's books, in fact, I'd consider her one of my favorite authors, but Point of Origin falls so far short of any of her other works.  My first complaint, too many references to earlier  books, one of which I haven't read.  This makes the book terribly confusing  at some points, and if you haven's read Cruel and Unusual, you're really  going to be lost.  Second, since most of the characters do appear in other  books, she neglects to introduce us to them in Point of Origin properly.  For instance, it took me pages to figure out that Sparkes is African  American.  Vital information to racheting up the suspense and interest in  &quot;who-dun-it&quot;.  Third, enough with Carrie Grethen and Temple  Gault.  They were interesting the first time (first couple times for  Gault), but give it a rest.  They're just too invincible.  In fact, I  wouldn't be surprised if Carrie appeared again.  Disappointed, but not  surprised.  Finally, the story itself could have been so much better.  I  agree with an earlier reviewer who reacted to the helicopter shoot  out...lame.  And with the Fire Marshall, because I can't believe it took  that long to figure out how they were starting the fires.  You would think  an ATF investigator and FBI officers would be able to figure out where the  magnesium came from, if they've had any training at all.  SO, all in all I  was very disappointed.  I wouldn't recommend this book to old fans, and I  DEFINITELY would advise new Cornwell readers to pass on Point of Origin.	2000-05-27
US	51220608	R30UPXWO6M4X1Y	B00004THMC	739795031	Point of Origin	Books	3	1	1	N	N	What?	Normally I really enjoy Patricia Cornwell's books, in fact, I'dconsider her one of my favorite authors, but Point of Origin falls so far short of any of her other works.  My first complaint, too many references to earlier books, one of which I haven't read.  This makes the book terribly confusing at some points, and if you haven's read Cruel and Unusual, you're really going to be lost.  Second, since most of the characters do appear in other books, she neglects to introduce us to them in Point of Origin properly.  For instance, it took me pages to figure out that Sparkes is African American.  Vital information to racheting up the suspense and interest in &quot;who-dun-it&quot;.  Third, enough with Carrie Grethen and Temple Gault.  They were interesting the first time (first couple times for Gault), but give it a rest.  They're just too invincible.  In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if Carrie appeared again.  Disappointed, but not surprised.  Finally, the story itself could have been so much better. I agree with an earlier reviewer who reacted to the helicopter shoot out...lame.  And with the Fire Marshall, because I can't believe it took that long to figure out how they were starting the fires.  You would think an ATF investigator and FBI officers would be able to figure out where the magnesium came from, if they've had any training at all.  SO, all in all I was very disappointed.  I wouldn't recommend this book to old fans, and I DEFINITELY would advise new Cornwell readers to pass on Point of Origin.	2000-05-27
US	51220608	RBLBMSJQI1OER	0613014340	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow, wow, wow!	This is definitely in my top 5 favorite Koontz books.  Not quite number 1, but up there.  Koontz takes his writing to a whole new level in Intensity, focusing on just two characters for most of the story.  Often there are  four or more characters to keep up with in his stories, and the fact that  Intensity has only two really important ones, and that it covers a very  short time span, make it extremely personal.  You really get to know Chyna  and Edgler, sometimes more than you would like to.  Edgler's real-world  occupation was a bit of a shock, and he is chillingly normal, your  next-door neighbor, the cute guy at work, someone you run into in the  grocery store.  Chyna at first is a bit of an enigma, but as she grows  through the story, you find yourself really pulling for her, almost yelling  at the book so she can &quot;hear&quot; your advice (kinda like with scary  movies, telling the actors &quot;No!  Not in there, the bad guy's in  there!&quot;).  A definite must read for die-hard Koontz fans and new  readers alike.	2000-05-26
US	51220608	R3T2WF25NSYLFJ	034539657X	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another good one	Hmmm, reading through some of the reviews, I'm surprised at what people have had to say about Koontz and his writing.  Sure, he's not for everybody, but he still has talent, and there are few writers that draw me  in quite as completely as he does.  Okay, enough of my ranting. I think  Rivers is one of his better works.  The characters achieve a greater depth  than some in previous work, the flashbacks are well done, the government  conspiracy is handled very well.  Dean admits that the hacking in the book  is not accurate, in a disclaimer at the end of the book, he says he  shortened a lot of procedure for the sake of readability.  Some of you are  already complaining about the length...would you like him to add the detail  back in so you have your accuracy and the rest of us end up bored silly? I  would definitely recommend Dark Rivers to anyone who likes suspense or  conspiracy stories.  There's enough in here to keep you wondering for a  while, and quite a few very unexpected surprises thrown in.  (Just wait  'til you meet Godzilla!)  While I wouldn't put Rivers in my top 5 Koontz  novels of all time, it's pretty close, at least in the top 10.	2000-05-24
US	51220608	R24Z5YNVMCPV4B	0613175379	975277616	Strange Highways	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Classic Koontz!	If you've ever read any of my reviews on Koontz titles in the past, you know how big a fan I am.  This time is no different.  I found a hardback copy of Strange Highways in a local used bookstore and pounced on it  immediately.  What an awesome collection!  There really is something here  for every fan of Koontz, whether you like his creepy supernatural stuff,  the tense psychological suspense, or some of his more science fiction  pieces, you won't be disappointed.  &quot;Trapped&quot; is one of my  favorites, mainly because Whispers tops my list of favorite books and the  subject matter is very similar (he discusses this at the end of the book).  &quot;Miss Atilla the Hun&quot; is another favorite, as well as the title  novel.  And who couldn't love &quot;Bruno&quot;?  Whethere you're new to  Koontz's work, or an old fan like me, I strongly suggest picking up a copy  of Strange Highways for yourself.  You're sure to be taken on a lively ride  that's definitely worth the price of admission.	2000-05-21
US	51220608	R2EAWMSHSXAZYW	0425153975	704752435	The Eyes of Darkness	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not his best	I picked this book up in an airport during a long trip, and unfortunately it just made it longer.  I am a HUGE Koontz fan, but this is not a book that tops my list (I disagree with a previous review though, in that Fear  Nothing and Lightning are way up there).  I understand that it was one of  his earlier works, and not quite as polished as some of his more recent  stuff, but it just really didn't seem to go anywhere but where I expected  it to.  There were a few spine-tingling segments, particularly the scenes  in Danny's room, but that was about as believably supernatural as it  got...everything else was a little over the top.  I just couldn't care as  much for the characters as I usually do, the plot wasn't up to par, and the  romance aspect felt very contrived.  I would recommend Intensity or some of  the earlier works like Watchers and Whispers over this one.	2000-05-19
US	51220608	R2XJUXZWQB8ND5	034539092X	312499471	The Great Train Robbery	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Just not quite there.	I have read all of Crichton's works, and usually come away well satisfied when I close whatever book I happen to have read.  I can't say the same for The Great Train Robbery.  Yes, it is very well-written, and portrays  Victorian England in a realism I've rarely seen before.  Yes, the  characters are lively and interesting.  But I was so bored!  I literally  had to force myself to finish, and to be honest, don't remember much of the  plot.  I feel that this is a departure from the quality of much of  Crichton's other work.  While most fans are going to read it simply because  it's Crichton, I wouldn't recommend it to new readers.  Try Time Line or  Jurassic Park first.	2000-05-16
US	51220608	R2HH2ML258EBGD	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent	I read Seize the Night right before False Memory, and I would defintely reccommend it over Memory.  It may seem a bit slow and wordy at first, but the more you get into the story, the better it is.  I fell in love with  Chris Snow and his friends all over again, and as a Pre-Vet major, I  absolutely adore Orson and Mungojerrie (the pets in the story).  While I  feel this is another excellent piece by Mr. Koontz, I would advise new  readers to read Fear Nothing before Seize the Night, just for the sake of  continuity.  If you've never read Koontz before, try some of his earlier  work, so you have a feel for his style before jumping into the Moonlight  Bay series.  It really is wonderful, though, and I am impatiently awaiting  the third book, though I will be sorry to finish it.	2000-05-15
US	51220608	R37TDFK62N6886	0781432871	922838897	Tales of the Resistance (Kingdom Tales)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Exquisite!	After searching for years for a copy of this book, I finally found one in a local outlet bookstore.  I was absolutely thrilled.  I own the other two books in the Kingdom Tales Series, and couldn't leave the collection  incomplete.  These stories are wonderful for lovers of fairy tales and  moral tales alike.  While the basis for the series is Scriptural, the books  themselves have an appeal that overreaches religious barriers.  I would  definitely reccommend this series to anyone with children or who loves  fantasy.  Particularly nice about Resistance are the stories of everyday  people becoming extraordinary, and the art of Jack Stockton --  breathtaking.	2000-05-14
US	51220608	R1NNRA6PY2G9ZO	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good for a light read	GGHF was recommended to me by an English major friend of mine.  It took me  a while to finally get around to reading it, but I'm actually glad I did.  I'll admit that it wasn't as good as Fielding's Bridget Jones, or a lot of  other short fiction that's been hitting the shelves lately, but I wasn't  looking for a literary masterpiece.  If you want a fairly quick, light  read, this is a great book.  It's not one to get too overly analytical of,  as some readers seem to have done.  I read it over the span of a few busy  days where I could only pick it up for a few minutes at a time, but I never  felt lost.  Some stories are poignant, touching, and others are very funny,  causing my friends to glance at me warily when I read it during a terribly  boring class.  Don't read it expecting literary genius, read it expecting a  simple set of stories that give us a glimpse into Jane's world, that many  of us could identify with.	2000-05-10
US	51220608	R2PZ5SGXJW06O9	0684865254	36510800	Witness: Voices from the Holocaust	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Powerful	I picked up this book in a local bookstore one afternoon, not planning to  buy it, just to glance through since I'm very interested in the Holocaust.  I was late picking my mother up from work because I became so caught up in  it.  What I appreciated most about Witness was the many different  viewpoints presented, I can't remember another time where I was able to  read a Hitler Youth's account of the happenings, and I had not read all  that many accounts by American POWs.  I spent an entire afternoon and late  into the night reading the book straight through, and it was definitely  time well spent.  I agree with the previous reviewer in that the stories  arent' quite so graphic as many I have come across, and yet I think since  it is in each of the witnesses own words, nothing altered, not even  grammar, it is so much more poignant.  I would definitely recommend Witness  to anyone searching for a greater knowledge of what occured in the camps  and throughout Germany and Poland during this horrific time.	2000-05-10
US	51220608	R39JNXFISBD4N3	0812544501	137004441	Tam Lin (Fairy Tale)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Hmmm....	Maybe the problem is that I read Jane Yolen's Briar Rose before this one,  and it spoiled me.  I like the characters, at least the ones we get to know  in depth.  They seem real, and I care about what happens to them.  The plot  is definitely a little slow.  One of the other reviewers said that Ms. Dean  really got the feel of college life down accurately, I have to disagree.  My college experience is nothing like these people's .  From what I've read  so far, no one really has a life, and I can't think of one person I know  who talks like they do and I have very good friends who are English,  Theater, and Classics majors.  I guess I just expected something a little  more...I don't know...&quot;fairytale-ish&quot;.  It is a good read, but I  would recommend Yolen's Briar Rose (from the Fairy Tale Series as well)  before Tam Lin.	2000-05-10
US	51220608	R2NH4AT2Z6NAKG	0732406501	809002656	The One and Only Delgado Cheese	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enchanting!	I love children's books, and this one holds a prominent space on my shelf, right next to the Mains' Kingdom Tales (another strong recommendation).  It's a story of a young boy learning self-confidence when he enters the school talent show.  The illustrations are wonderful, and full of vibrant  color, the characters are loveable, and you finish the story with a good  feeling and a clear moral.  A great addition to any library.	2000-04-25
US	51220608	R2KOGBF3UPYXU7	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	5	4	7	N	N	From textbook to personal writing inspiration	I first encountered Bird by Bird in my college Comp I class.  My professor read us the part about school lunches, and had us all write an exercise from it.  A year later, I took the same professor's Creative Writing class,  and Bird by Bird was one of the text book's we used.  I was thrilled.  We  were to read the book, and write an essay about what it had meant to us for  part of the final grade in the class.  That was one of the easiest  assignments I've ever had.  The hardest part was where to stop!  Since  then, Bird by Bird has been on and off a shelf next to my computer:  on the  shelf, waiting like a good friend to lend encouragement at a glance, off  the shelf in those times when I've found writing difficult and needed a  little more in-depth look at the &quot;why&quot;s of writer's block.  I  definitely recommend it to anyone who enjoys writing, knows someone who  does, or just likes a good read now and then.  It's very entertaining, and  gives a good perspective as to what's really going on in a writer's mind  and life.	2000-04-20
US	51220608	R2CQZISGDYUK2N	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hmmm....	I have to admit, after reading this book I actually did do alittle bit of reading up on quantum physics and differentdimensionalities, etc.  I'm still pretty boggled by the whole thing. Anyway, I found the book to be very enjoyable.  Not quite the usual Crichton (thus the 4 stars instead of 5), but supsenseful and amusing nonetheless.  I got the book for Christmas and read it before classes resumed.  I didn't find it the least bit &quot;boring&quot; or &quot;tiring&quot; or &quot;contrived&quot;.  I also found the change of pace from the usual Crichton dinos or corporate fare of late to medieval France intriguing.  I would definitely recommend it to fiction lovers, old Crichton fans and new initiates alike.  END	2000-04-20
US	51220608	R2ID5XQQA4X7LS	067084487X	569134622	The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great romp on the wild-and-crazy side	Several friends and I give each other children's books for special occasions.  None of us have children yet, but we can still appreciate the simple stories and beautiful art in many of the wonderful books on the  market today.  I discovered this book while glancing through a friend's  bookshelf one night after coffee.  He asked if I'd read it, and when I said  no, he told me to, &quot;Right now, right away, I mean it!&quot;  I sat on  the floor and followed his orders, and I'm glad I did.  I hadn't laughed so  hard at a book in ages.  I went right out and got my own copy, and I'm  giving it to another friend on her birthday.  Whether you're an adult or  not, whether you have kids or not, this book is just plain fun to have  around.  Pick up a copy, you won't be disappointed, except that you may  wish it were longer.	2000-04-20
US	51220608	RSU1LAAGAOG6Y	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Hmmm...not sure what's missing	I am a HUGE Koontz fan, have read everything, but I just can't put False Memory at the top of my favorites list.  Maybe it was because I read Seize the Night the day before, and I have become very fond of Chris Snow and the  other characters in the Moonlight Bay series.  I liked the characters in  False Memory a lot, though I would've enjoyed a little more of Valet (I  like his intelligent animals, what can I say?), I really hated the villian,  I really got wrapped up in the story...just not quite as much as I have  with other stories by him in the past.  Definitely not for the Koontz  initiate, try Intensity or Fear Nothing or maybe Whispers or Watchers to  get a better idea of the author, but I would recommend it to those who are  somewhat familiar with his work.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R18R6APXBHUN7N	1889540226	80677394	Horse, Follow Closely: Native American Horsemanship	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Definite must-read for horse lovers	I enjoyed every word of this well-written, well-photographed book.  I don't think it was meant as a training book per se, as one of the earlier reviewers complained, but more as a guide to connecting with your horse on  a more intimate level.  A horse owner myself, with an equine companion that  is a bit on the &quot;feisty&quot; side, I found the insights into the mind  of the horse helpful, and I'm sorry, but I think it's a good idea to know  how to fall off a horse correctly when riding bareback, my favorite style.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R2CRZ7I6AHN1P7	0812558626	119454509	Briar Rose	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Truly magnificent!	I was introduced to Jane Yolen by her short story in After the King: A Tribute to J.R.R. Tolkien (another great read...highly recommended!).  On a recent trip to the library I looked for a book by her on a whim.  Briar  Rose caught my eye.  Last summer I took a trip to Poland, and during my  stay visited Auschwitz.  Since then I have been very interested in  Holocaust stories.  Briar Rose, though not a true account, is still a very  moving story.  It is very well-written and the pace is good, but make sure  you have tissues nearby!  (Unless I'm just the overly-sensitive type, which  I doubt.)  I've had to order a copy for my personal library, and I plan to  read it again as soon as UPS delivers it.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R20K2LIZ4ZT76U	1577483480	393857282	The Hiding Place (The Essential Christian Library)	Books	3	12	19	N	N	A milder account	Okay, so maybe it isn't the most riveting book on the planet, and maybe the writing isn't all that great, and maybe the foreshadowing is a little much, but give me a break.  Any survivor's account of the holocaust is  worth your time.  The more we understand, the better people we are, and the  more we honor those who have taken the time to share their pain with us.  I  first read this book as a school assignment, and have re-read it serveral  times since, just because of the respect I have for Ms. Ten Boom.  And  those of you who commented on the horrors of life in prison camps...if this  is the only Holocaust book you have read, you have no idea.  Hiding Place  is very, very mild compared to most of the others.  For a real  understanding, try visiting Auschwitz yourself...I have, and I will forever  be changed by the experience.  One more thing...I definitely recommend Jane  Yolen's Briar Rose, not a true account, but a moving story nonetheless.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R1D5GIFJR9VKCU	1555137598	36426990	Tales of the Restoration	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderful tales!	This is an absolutely wonderful series!  I recommend it to anyone who has children, or if you simply like fantasy.  What I really appreciate, is although the Mainses are Christian writers, the stories aren't overly  &quot;Christian&quot;.  They are more like fables/fairy tales where the  moral can apply to anyone, no matter their faith.  I have to say though, I  enjoyed Tales of the Kingdom a little more, mainly because the arwork was  better.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R2LT2WMLGU4WYA	0380977028	869501234	Avalon:: The Return of King Arthur	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Classic Arthurian legend brought to modern day	I began reading the Pendragon Cycle in Junior High (gee, guess that shows how young I am, huh?), and absolutely fell in love.  Now a Junior in college I was thrilled to see Lawhead bring the story to its conclusion(?)  in present day England.  What a wonderful story come full-circle!  Although, I must agree, Moira was not quite the evil villianess I have seen  in previous Lawhead tales.  Some slight disappointment there.  But how  about the return of good old Embries?  How classic to make him a timeless  compainion to Arthur.  He has been my favorite character all along.  If you  are a Lawhead fan, I have told you nothing new.  However, if you've never  read Lawhead before, or if you've never read the Pendragon Cycle before, I  reccomend starting at the beginning with Taliesin.  The story line will be  much more intriguing if you know the history.  Oh...and if you plan on  reading the whole series, stop by Stephen's website for what order to read  them in, they weren't written chronologically.  And it's just a fun site.	2000-04-17
US	51220608	R2FB097ECOHXVA	0812514432	86353201	After the King: Stories In Honor of J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A book for all fans of fantasy or science fiction!	Wow!  The first word to come to mind when I read this book after I got it from the library.  I searched local bookstores for almost a year before I decided to try Amazon.  But don't be fooled, this book is not meant to be  anything like Tolkien.  It is written by authors who have been greatly  influenced by this great man and his work.  There is a story here for  everyone, whether you like comedy, tragedy, classic fantasy, or futuristic  science-fiction.  True, not all the entries were &quot;right up my  alley&quot;, but reading each of them was a pleasure.  I recommend it to  anyone whose life has been changed by the writings of J.R.R. Tolkien.	1999-08-07
