US	51228286	R3IZJQA0JIE75	1880985721	604508446	And the Ass Saw the Angel	Books	4	34	40	N	N	Not A Bad Literary Debut	Having arrived late on the Nick Cave bandwagon, I spent several years listening closely to his albums and finally decided it was time to take a crack at the book to which there are many allusions in his music. For example, Crow Jane, a character from one of Cave's most violent songs, is re-introduced here as the vile woman who whelped the hapless narrator, Euchrid Eucrow. So first I read the reviews, and then I tackled the actual book itself. <br />Is \\"And The Ass Saw The Angel\\" hard to read? Yes. Are there made-up words? Yes. But then there are many novels, great and not so great, that are both hard to read and that contain many seeming nonsense words and phrases. On reading Cave, I think of Faulkner (made-up places and words), Flannery O'Connor (particularly the parallels with her novel Wise Blood), and of H. P. Lovecraft, whose novels and short stories are packed with the kind of degenerates who people Cave's Ukulore Valley. Many of the words that Cave uses, and may be accused by some of inventing, are not inventions at all but rather are either obscure or archaic words. Some of the actually invented words are agglutinations of two or three real words, so put together as to make more vivid the idea being expressed. Cave is obviously a master wordsmith and his command of English demands a similar level of erudition from his readers. One of those hefty dictionaries seen in university libraries just might be needed by some. <br />The story itself is populated by all the lowest, most degenerate and filthy specimens of humanity imaginable. Narrator Euchrid Eucrow, born mute, is himself the unwholesome and wretched spawn of diseased loins. It is telling that the Ukulore Valley's most sympathetic characters are the town whore and the daughter she bore in death.  <br />The Ukulites themselves are above the others at the start, the God-chosen masters of the valley. Hard-working, God-fearing, and sober, only they have a real future there and a stake in the status quo. Everyone else is there to be used when needed, but officially ignored otherwise. I don't know about other readers, but though this novel is putatively set somewhere in the American South, I detect a whiff of Brigham Young and the Mormons about the Ukulites story. Cave knows his Bible, and this book is replete with Biblical quotations and allusions. <br />I don't want to ruin the story by telling it here, but suffice to say it is a brutal, bloody, filthy, vulgar and sometimes hilarious mockery of bigotry and religious zealotry. Euchrid, rejected and abused by all and sundry because of his origins and his condition, retreats into the confines of his ramshackle, jerry-built Kingdom of Doghead and plots revenge on all who have made his life sheer misery. How it all ends is a comic surprise. <br />And The Ass Saw The Angel is not a bad literary debut for a man best known as a songwriter. The story and the language betray Cave's longtime fascination with the American South. And this is where it really loses a star. Cave tries to make his characters sound \\"southern\\" by having the narrator (Euchrid Eucrow) say words like \\"ah\\", mah\\" and \\"unnerstand\\" in place of proper English enunciation, but then he often forgets that mid-sentence and lapses into Standard English or sometimes even lets loose with a bit of Aussie slang! Cave or his editors should have been more careful. But though the book is filled with graphic descriptions of human and animal cruelty of the basest sort, intrepid readers who are not literal-minded may find this to be a very engrossing novel noir indeed. Four bright stars and may Cave write soon again!	2005-10-03
US	51228286	R3L7IJI9RUSGAD	0826414931	957983249	Forever Changes (Thirty Three and a Third series)	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	A Thinking Man's Guide	Forever Changes is one of my all-time favorite albums and is one of the few I listened to as a youth that I never tire of hearing. So naturally I am as interested in reading about the enigmatic Arthur Lee and his band as I am in listening to them. <br />I just recently got around to reading this book having had no idea what to expect of the author. At first, I was annoyed by his hard left political rants but then as I read on, I became engrossed by his obviously educated take on the album and its meaning. Make no mistake, if you are expecting airy gossip, then pass this book by. Hultkrans' Forever Changes is a thinking man's guide to the album. You may or may not agree with what he says, but you will come away at the end of the book listening to the album with a different mindset. You may even come away wanting to explore the writings of Kierkegaard, Huysmans, Woolf, and other referenced writers to see where Lee may have gotten existential inspiration. <br />Some reviewers didn't find much about Forever Changes in these pages. I found a great deal, not only about the songs, but about the peculiar cultural milieu that spawned Lee. I don't understand why several of the reviewers complain about the elevated tone of Hultkrans' exegesis. Most people I know who really like Forever Changes are of a thoughtful bent, so I would think that most who want to get beneath the surface of Lee's lyrics would be delighted by the approach here. After all, taken literally many of the songs seem nonsensical. However, when they are examined from the viewpoint of the arcane philosophies that seemed to animate Lee, then they begin to make some sense. <br />I enjoyed reading Forever Changes and would recommend it to anyone interested in looking at a great album in a radical new way. It would have gotten five stars had Hultkrans managed to keep his off-topic political biases to himself.	2005-09-22
US	51228286	R3JKHCEF0OF9P1	0879306173	999151164	Michael Bloomfield - If You Love These Blues: An Oral History (Book)	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	If You Love These Blues, You Will Buy This Book!	I gotta confess, I never really appreciated the depth of Mike Bloomfield's talent when he was in his heyday. Oh yeah, I was a fan of the Paul Butterfield Blues Band and of the Electric Flag, but I never did buy wholly into the \\"Bloomfield as guitar god\\" mantra that many of my slightly older friends and schoolmates did. Perhaps if I had been just a little older when he was at his zenith, I would have understood just how musically important he was! <br />If You Love These Blues was brought to my attention by one of the book's authors who had e-mailed me about one of my reviews on amazon. His description of it sounded interesting, so I took a chance and ordered it here. Am I ever glad I did! Not only did I get a book chock full of interesting stories and anecdotes about Bloomfield and those who surrounded him, I also got a magnificent CD of previously unissued 1964 Bloomfield recordings, from the vaults so to speak. <br /> <br />The book: <br />If You Love These Blues is not a traditional biography, rather it is a compilation and arrangement of interviews of Bloomfield himself (before his death, of course), his colleagues, his intimates, and some of his important acquaintances given over the years as Bloomfield's life is explored from his youth until his untimely death. Some of the interviews of those important in his life were given years after Bloomfield's death and help the reader to form a retrospective impression of the sort of guy Bloomfield was.  <br />At first I was skeptical about how this style of biography would work out, now I see that it was probably the best way to approach Bloomfield's story. The interviews and stories are not haphazardly arranged, but are in such an order as to give the reader a coherent overview of each important period of Bloomfield's life. The stories, reminiscences, and anecdotes are sometimes humorous, sometime tragic, but nearly always compelling. My favorite bunch of reminiscences are those revolving around Bloomfield and his experiences with some of the old giants of blues, particularly those of his wild trip to St Louis with Big Joe Williams and a couple friends. <br />Those most interested in the musical aspect of his life and the musicians that surrounded, influenced, or were influenced by Bloomfield will enjoy reading the comments of luminaries like Elvin Bishop, Jack Casady, Nick Gravenites, Al Kooper, Buddy Miles, Charlie Musselwhite,Mark Naftalin, and Carlos Santana among many others. <br />At the end of the book, there is a list of interviewees for quick reference, a comprehensive discography, and a selected critical discography. <br /> <br />The CD: <br />First, I've gotta say that even without the CD, the book was well worth the price paid. With the CD, the book is an incredible bargain. Take yourself back to 1964 and try to remember the kind and quality of the music that was popular then. Try to think of anyone at that time who was considered a legitimate guitar hero, then listen to this! Now how advanced is this for its day? You get nearly 45 minutes of primitive, searing blues that let you see just how far ahead of his contemporaries he was. Bloomfield often liked to play all the parts, and his experiments here with overdubbing showcase his massive talent. I like it all, but particularly enjoy Country Boy (with a young Charlie Musselwhite on harmonica), Intermission Blues (on which his piano play foreshadows Bob Hall's style on early Savoy Brown recordings), and the jamfest Gotta Call Susie that closes out the CD. <br /> <br />If you are a blues fan and if you love the blues style popularized by Michael Bloomfield and his colleagues, then you will buy this book! I cannot give it any higher recommendation.	2005-08-09
US	51228286	R2CVT4N2WSAY3Y	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Kiss Up, Kick Down	At long last, I have finished this monster tome. After reading the first two volumes of Robert Caro's fascinating series on LBJ, I was eager to delve into this one. And I did, painstakingly and at a snail's pace as other obligations limited my reading time to 15-20 pages per day. But it was time well spent. <br />In this volume, Robert Caro shows how Lyndon Johnson did not rest on his laurels after a hard-stolen election to the Senate brought him closer to his ultimate goal. As a freshman senator, he was just one in a hundred, at the bottom of the seniority heap. But he had long ago learned how to find where real power resided in any organization of which he was part and his people skills (read boot-licking and schmoozing) and determination soon brought him close to those who mattered in the Senate. Georgia Senator Richard Russell was the Democratic power in the Senate at this time, a man whose nod could make or break any legislation or the career of almost any Democratic Senator and so Johnson made sure to get next to him. And it didn't hurt that House Speaker Sam Rayburn was solidly behind him as well. <br />Bootlicking wasn't Johnson's only forte, however. Once he was in a position of some authority, he made sure he was prepared for any subject that came up and more prepared than those senior to him. His thorough study of the Senate and his preparation to face the issues of the day quickly made him the go-to guy among his colleagues and that only served to widen the scope of his authority. <br />Southern Senators, led by Russell, saw in Johnson a future chance at putting a Southerner in the White House, an honor that had been denied any Southern candidate since the Civil War. And so they sometimes were willing to give in some on some of their demands in order to give Johnson a boost and national exposure as a Southern moderate on civil rights issues. Johnson knew that the Southerners needed him as much as he needed them, and he took full advantage of his positionto get closer to his ultimate goal. <br />Johnson's colleagues were agape at how he took the former thankless task of being Majority Leader and turned that position from a mere honorific into a position of real influence and prestige. It had been a political graveyard for others, but Johnson was determined to make it work for him. He nearly always did his homework and with his knowledge of the Senate rules and his gift for strategy, was able to accomplish things that others thought impossible. Johnson was not only a master of give and take, he was unforgiving to any who crossed him, both friend and foe alike. <br />Of course, Senators holding safe seats were free to defy and even fight Johnson, but as the Senate was probably more competitive then than it is today, Johnson could and did use his power to withhold crucial campaign help from recalcitrant Senators and was happy to see their defeat. <br />Caro thinks that LBJ's greatest accomplishment was to get a civil rights bill passed while he was Majority Leader, despite the fact that by the time it was passed it was watered down to a mere gesture. But that bill, in Johnson's crude way of phrasing, had broken the Senate's virginity on the matter of civil rights, so that in the future other civil rights bills could be pushed through more easily. <br />That triumph made him slightly more palatable to the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and with the help and friendship of key liberals in the media, in labor and in politics, Johnson was able to burnish his growing reputation as a different kind of Southerner. <br />The portion of the book that follows the story of how Johnson got civil rights legislation passed over strong objections from both the Southern camp and the liberals (who felt the bill meaningless) is somewhat anti-climactic. There were no more Johnson accomplishments to match the drama of the civil rights battle, and Caro saves the story of Johnson's fight for both the Democratic presidential nomination and a third term in the Senate for an upcoming  fourth volume on the LBJ saga. He does, however, show how Johnson schemed to hang on to Senate power after being elected as Vice-President. He seems a bit of a pitiful figure trying to maintain his old position when it is clear that both his old friends and his opponents want him to move on and to maintain the separation of power between the executive and legislative branches. <br />The recent Senate fight over John Bolton's nomination to be UN ambassador and the depiction of his style as kiss up, kick down <br />made me think that the phrase \\"Kiss Up, Kick Down\\" is the perfect way to describe LBJ's personal style. At the beginning of his career, he did a lot of kissing up. By the time he solidified his position as Majority Leader he gave full vent to his desire to kick down anyone or anything in his way. <br />The story of the rise of LBJ is fascinating indeed and Robert Caro tells it in an engaging and penetrating way. I heartily recommend Master of the Senate to anyone interested in the enigma that was LBJ, but I recommend that you read the first two volumes before reading this one so that you have a complete understanding of Johnson by the time you are through.	2005-06-28
US	51228286	R3T9ZULTEHCOLE	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	4	21	28	N	N	Indictment of Hypocrisy	Its a shame that the people who should read this book never will. <br />A doctrinaire liberal would never think to read it, and for conservatives, Hating Whitey merely serves to reinforce what we already know. If you are living with eyes wide open and ears devoid of wax buildup,you can see and hear examples of what Horowitz is talking about every day. Most people have encountered many of the absurdities of which he writes and feel indignant about isolated incidents, yet they fail to connect the dots that would show them the whole picture. I'm not saying that liberals have no good ideas and nothing positive to contribute, on the contrary my most fervent wish is that both liberals and conservatives would be brave enough to expose and work to demolish the inconsistencies of their own camps' public positions. In public life, there are some of those kind on both sides, but precious few of them. <br />Horowitz has seemingly made it his life's work to expose the sins of the left, and he is eminently qualified to do so having made the journey from red-diaper baby to student radical to conservative activist. But sometimes he stretches an incident a bit to make his point. Example: in the chapter entitled Rage to Kill, he offers an example of what he calls an over-reaction by racist author bell hooks (she spells it without capitals)to rudeness by airline employees. She takes it as a sign of racism while Horowitz thinks it was just employee rudeness. Now, unfortunately, it is probably true that many black people are primed to take as a racial insult any perceived slight or discourtesy by a white person but that is because so many of them have had to endure slights regularly. And so it was understandable to me that hooks would take the inattention she received by the employees as a racial insult. And since hooks herself is a racist, her racist feelings probably magnified her reaction. But instead of hectoring fellow passengers about white racism, she probably should have reported the offending employees to the highest airline management. After all, ignoring customers while carrying on a personal conversation in their presence would be an insult to anyone of any race. <br />Overall, on the subject of race, Horowitz gets it right in hammering the racial double standard that pervades national life and the silly pretzel logic that dogmatic leftists use to justify its glaring inconsistencies.  <br />Other topics covered are academic anti-Semitism, rampant political correctness run amok both on and off campus, the differences in the treatment of left-wing and right-wing dictators by the press (Love Castro, hate Pinochet...ask yourself, which country is better off today?), the Mafia-like code of omerta within the radical left, the shunning and worse suffered by apostates, and the sins of the Clinton Administration of which the spy-and-finance scandals were the worst, and the Lewinsky affair really of the least importance nationally.  <br />Since this is a polemic, he gives scant credit to Clinton for any of his real achievements, but chooses to expose the hypocrisy of leftist critics who remained silent or excused him when Clinton did things that would have a Republican president facing an incessant drumbeat of demands for impeachment.  <br />Many of the issues discussed in the book deserve discussion on a national level, but unfortunately will continue to be swept under the rug. To liberals I say, read this with an open mind. You don't have to agree, just consider the points made. To conservatives I say that reading Hating Whitey will serve to raise your level of indignation and possibly spur you to fight harder for a country that is truly one in which all are equal in the eyes of the law.	2005-06-24
US	51228286	RESHC1IALH3QE	0874171679	859743439	Escape Via Berlin: Eluding Franco In Hitler's Europe (The Basque Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Lacks A Unifying Theme	The average Joe has never heard of Jose Antonio de Aguirre and likely would never hear of him unless he had an interest in the Basque people and culture. However obscure he is to most, Aguirre is an important figure in the modern history of the Basque people because he was their elected leader at the time of Franco's Falangist rebellion in Spain and he was one who managed to escape with his life and to publicize the Basque struggle in the west. <br />To me, the Basques are the Irish of the Latin world. All through their history, they have fought for liberty against one oppressor after another. And like the Irish, millions of them fled overseas to become people of substance and influence in their adopted countries. The Irish diaspora has produced many great men and women in the Anglo-Saxon world and beyond. The Basque has done likewise in the Latin world and beyond. The Irish finally got their own state in the twentieth century, but the Basques are still waiting for theirs. <br />Escape Via Berlin sounded to me like it would be an exciting book, full of intrigue and harrowing escapes, and in some ways it is. But in other ways it plods along and gets bogged down in minutiae that occasionally exasperated me.  <br />The book is really three-in-one, with a series of unconnected dissertations at the end. Part One sets the scene, gives the background of the Spanish/Basque conflict, and finds Aguirre trapped in Belgium after the German occupation. I found this section maudlin, preachy, and repetitious. <br />Part Two is the meat of the story and shows that in addition to being earnest and whiny, Aguirre could often be very funny. In this section, Aguirre assumes the persona of the Panamanian Dr Alvarez with the help of a score of sympathetic Latin American diplomats and after much bureaucratic finagling, is able to leave Germany and its occupied territories via Sweden. Aguirre recounts many incidents during his residence in Berlin and Hamburg that leave the reader wonderingjust how he ever managed to get out without being discovered. There is the added benefit of Aguirre's first hand observations of ordinary life in Nazi Germany under wartime conditions. <br />The third part recounts his escape to Sweden, conditions in Sweden, the difficulty of leaving Sweden, then finally getting passage on a ship and having to undergo one last brush with the Gestapo on the way into the North Atlantic and onward to South America. Here he resumes his preachy hand-wringing but manages a few nice slaps at bureaucracy wherever he encounters it. <br />The reader can stop after Part Three unless he/she wishes to read through Aguirre's musings on a variety of topics, most of which touch on the postwar political dispensation in the world, but especially Spain. The Basque President is quite the thinker, naive in some ways but realistic and original in many others. When reading of Aguirre's thoughts on the role the spread of liberty will play in bringing world peace, I thought of George W Bush and the neocons. When he wrote of some of the reforms he was able to effect in the Spanish Basque provinces before he was exiled by the Falangist victory in the Spanish Civil War, I thought of socialism at its core ideal: a hand up, not a hand out. When he wrote of a meritocratic society with minimum standards of living for the working poor, I thought of a man who was in many ways ahead of his time. But at the end of that appendage I was left wondering why it is that any talk of Basque autonomy never includes those Basque provinces controlled by France? <br />Though I enjoyed Escape Via Berlin overall, I found that it lacks a unifying theme. Part of that may be the fault of the translators and part of it is surely the fault of the editors who freely admit in notes to bowdlerizing many passages to avoid offending certain unnamed groups. Despite the book's many faults,it should be of interest to anyone who is interested in the Basques.	2005-02-05
US	51228286	R6948KKMD71YD	0316735884	473614234	Soul of Nowhere	Books	3	23	27	N	Y	For the Adventurous Spirit	I have a long-standing interest in the desert, having lived there for years and having done some explorations of my own. But never did I dream of taking the kind of trips Craig Childs recounts in his books. After reading The Secret Knowledge of Water, I eagerly dove into Soul of Nowhere expecting more spellbinding tales of survival on the margins of life.   When I finished, I felt a little disappointed. Yes, there are some harrowing tales but there is also a little too much new-age prose and speculation for my taste. And I agree with the reviewer who complained of too much personal information.   Still, Soul of Nowhere is overall an enjoyable read. My favorite chapters are Passage, Labrynth, and Island. It is in these three chapters that Childs' storytelling comes alive. Emotion leaps off the page, the reader feels at one with the narrator as he traverses this wild and dangerous country. Since I have hiked in some of this same country, albeit on marked trails, I could very nearly feel the trembling fear Childs felt when he lost momentum climbing the sandstone arch or when the rock crumbled beneath his boots as he decended the old Anasazi passage into the Grand Canyon, or when he found himself nearly lost in a thicket of cactus in the searing mid-day heat as his every avenue of escape seemed blocked.   Childs has a definite talent for painting a life-like picture with his words, but he also has a talent for obscuring that picture with a lot of pseudo-intellectual mumbo-jumbo that gives the reader the impression that he is just trying too hard to write a \\"serious\\" book.   Despite those drawbacks, Childs' otherworldly escapades are like a magnet to the adventurous spirit. I look forward to reading more of his work because he sure does seem to have an interesting lifestyle.	2004-08-07
US	51228286	R21PEDE4WGCG5C	0890966427	492305914	The Caddo Indians: Tribes at the Convergence of Empires, 1542-1854 (CENTENNIAL SERIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF FORMER STUDENTS, TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Another Sad Chapter	My interest in the Caddo Indians stems from having worked in the area formerly controlled by the tribe. From Nacogdoches to Natchitoches, on northward into present-day southeastern Oklahoma and southwestern Arkansas, the Caddo and related tribes once controlled a vast area and were by all accounts well-organized, fairly disciplined, and relatively settled in relation to the nomadic tribes of the plains.<br />The Caddo Indians: Tribes At the Convergence of Empires 1542-1854 is the story of how a people who from the beginning strove to maintain peaceful and profitable relations with the white settlers fell victim to disease, alcohol and the duplicity of many of those whom they trusted. But it is also the tale of bravery, perseverance and unity in the face of all the forces of history that conspired against them.<br />The reader will see how the accidents of geography and the vagaries of events beyond the control of the Caddo nations brought them down from a tribe numbering in the hundreds of thousands, to a rump nation of just a couple hundred members today whose headquarters now sits on a meagre 37 acres in Oklahoma. You will meet good men and scoundrels on both sides and you will see how the scoundrels among the white nations (Spain, then Mexico, Texas and then the United States) eventually gained the upper hand. Of the white colonists who dealt with the Caddo tribes over the centuries, only the French come away largely free of the stench of dishonor.<br />The story of the Caddo Nation is yet another sad chapter in the history of Euro-American interaction with the Native peoples. It is doubly sad for the Caddo tribes as they took an actively  friendly stance from the start.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in history as it pertains to the Indians. F. Todd Smith gives the reader a fine, easy reading overview of an important but overlooked tribe and a little-known era in what was then a remote section of the frontier.	2004-07-07
US	51228286	RK32IXNIWGHZ	0394528352	933385853	2: Means of Ascent: The Years of Lyndon Johnson II	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Spellbinding and Spectacular	After having read Robert Caro's Path to Power, the first volume of his monumental trilogy on the life of Lyndon Baines Johnson, I came away with the feeling that although Johnson was an utter scoundrel, he had a few redeeming qualities. Now that I've read Path to Power, any redemption Johnson had earned in my eyes has been stripped away.<BR>In this volume, Caro lays bare once and for all the evidence that anyone of any political stripe should need to discover that Johnson was driven solely by naked ambition and was utterly bereft of principle or scruple. No one or nothing was sacred if it stood between him and the power he craved.<BR>In his losing 1941 Senate race against the charlatan Pappy O'Daniel, Johnson ran on a platform of Roosevelt, Roosevelt, Roosevelt. He made a public show in Washington of being one of FDR's most devoted lickspittles. Yet behind the scenes, he made deals with some of the most anti-Roosevelt money men in Texas and was able to convince them that he was really a conservative. Johnson narrowly lost that election and the lesson learned was that he had to steal more votes than he supposed his opponent to have stolen and then not have them counted until after the &quot;last&quot; votes were in.<BR>Reading between the lines, I can guess that FDR was finally on to him as Truman certainly was.<BR>Then there was the matter of his &quot;heroic&quot; war record. Even today when a candidate's claims are so much easier to check for veracity we have those who brazenly lie a la LBJ about their wartime service.<BR>LBJ comes off at his worst during the 1948 Democratic Senatorial primary in which he and his minions stole the election from former Governor Coke Stevenson by arranging the stuffing of ballot boxes and in some cases, paying voters to vote for Johnson.  When the &quot;results&quot; were contested by Stevenson, Johnson and his legal team lied and cheated their way through the system all the way to using a Supreme Court Justice to install Johnson asthe official Democratic candidate for the US Senate.<BR>A few people come off as heroes: Coke Stevenson himself, Circuit Court Judge T Whitfield Davidson, Federal Master in Chancery William R Smith and a handful of reformers in Jim Wells County and other South Texas counties who had the real courage to stand up to jefe George Parr, his enforcers and his pistoleros. Others include the very brave indeed Mexican-American residents of those counties who were willing to publicly testify that though they were counted as having voted, they had in fact not voted at all or had voted for Stevenson.<BR>Besides those whom the reader would expect to be slimeballs, Abe Fortas, Tom Clark,and Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black emerge from the sordid affair bathed in the stench of corruption.<BR>Although its obvious that the author is developing an increasing distatse for Johnson, he does not neglect showing the shrewd and forward looking side of the man. Johnson proves himself many times to be a keen reader of men and part of his political success stems from his ability to make snap decisions on what is and isn't going to work as far as campaigning goes. The story of his brilliant strategy of barnstorming the state by helicopter as his better known and hugely popular opponent Coke Stevenson slogs along county by county the old fashioned way is one of the high points of the book.<BR>It was that modern and then novel approach, coupled with his use of polling, vicious ad hominem attacks on Stevenson and mass mailings thinly disguised as newspapers that put Johnson in the position that stealing a few thousand votes could win the election for him. At the beginning of the campaign, almost no one outside his camp thought he had a chance of winning.<BR>I recommend this spellbinding and spectacular book to anyone interested in politics. Its a reminder to all of us how ignoble the quest for office can be, and a warning to all of us that we must constantly be on guard to ensure the fairness and sanctity of the principle of one man, one vote.	2004-06-19
US	51228286	R1VI54Y7JWHUQ2	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	491	507	N	N	Overview With A Different Angle	I have read perhaps more than a hundred books on the Third Reich from almost every angle possible. This morning, I finished the Coming of the Third Reich then I read the reviews posted here to see just how different perceptions affect other readers' understanding of the material. After digesting some of the commentary, I wondered if we had read the same book.<BR>This is the first time I've read a book by Richard Evans so I can't compare and contrast with his other work on the same subject. At no point did I detect excessive moralizing or self-congratulatory passages. I would urge those who have not yet read the book to read the preface. Its very important. Evans explains that he is breaking no new ground but that this book is primarily for the edification of those who know little or nothing about Hitler or the Third Reich. It is an overview with different angles than those of Shirer, Kershaw, and Burleigh and that is part of what makes this book so useful. Rather than dwell on the poverty of Hitler's youth and his anti-Semitism, though Evans does cover these, the focus is on the political, economic and social situation of the ill-fated Weimar Republic and how it became fertile soil for extremism.<BR>Evans has written a coherent, interesting, and fast-paced explanation for the rise of the Nazis to the top of the extremist crop of political fringe groups that got their start following WWI. It is useful to remember that out of the ashes of defeat in the war, myriad extremist groups popped up in Germany like mushrooms in a Mississippi cow pasture after a spring shower. <BR>The Weimar Republic was a fractious cacophony of partisan squabbling. Many Germans rejected its legitimacy and after twelve years of abject political failure despite the constant shuffling of Cabinets, millions were ready for a strong leader to take control and restore German pride and economic clout.<BR>Many party leaders vowed to dismantle the Weimar system should they come to power, but only Hitlerand his Nazi Party promised to do so while restoring Germany to its rightful place in the world. People increasingly began to see Hitler as a decisive leader and the Nazis as a youthful, dynamic movement that had the capabilities of fulfilling its promise. The Nazi Party was the first to use technology and science to further its aims and to build support. <BR>Innovations like focus groups that we take for granted today were potent weapons in the Nazi political arsenal then. With the guidance of Goebbels and others, Hitler learned to tailor his speeches to his audience. Where his anti-Semitic harangues were not working, he dropped any talk of the Jews. When he spoke to workers, he spoke against capital. When he spoke to industrialists, he emphasized the party's program for individual initiative and profits for those who earned them.<BR>The book shows that at no time was Hitler's appointment as Reich Chancellor inevitable, that the Nazis were actually seen by many, including some of their own worried leaders, to have already peaked in electoral support and that much of the support they had was soft. It was only a matter of tenacity coupled with luck on Hitler's part and stupid overconfidence on the part of others that got him a shot at running the country to begin with. Of great interest to readers are the electoral maps which show the relative strength of the Nazis around the country in a series of elections. It is interesting to note that one area where the Nazis lacked substantial support was in the south focusing on Munich and southern Bavaria, the birthplace of Naziism.<BR>Evans brings to life the daily street violence from the left and the right that had ordinary people living in fear. Hitler had promised a dictatorship time and again, but no one was more surprised than the mass of the people when that is exactly what he gave them.<BR>I highly recommend this book, even if you already think you know about all there is to know about Hitler and the Third Reich. Trust me. You don't. I sure didn't! And I'm looking forward to learning more in the next volume!	2004-04-20
US	51228286	R33FX5OBMV4X3B	0394499735	933385853	The Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Path to Power	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	He Didn't Need A Weatherman...	I never cared for LBJ or his brand of politics when I was growing up, but became somewhat interested in the man and the forces that shaped him after moving to the Texas Hill Country some years ago. So I read an anti-Johnson diatribe disguised as a biography and became even more fascinated by this native son who still arouses passionate feelings of both love and hatred amongst the local folks. Subsequently, I bought the Robert Caro trilogy on the life and times of LBJ, the first of which I review here.<BR>Caro begins The Path to Power by painting a vivid picture of the men and women who first settled the Texas Hill Country and how this land ultimately bent settlers to its will. He does this because the milieu in which Johnson grew up is of supreme importance in understanding the man he came to be.<BR>Johnson's boyhood was one of grinding poverty. He became determined to escape that poverty and to do whatever it took to do so. Early on, he discovered the truth to the old adage that its not what you know but who you know that can ease the path of advancement. And Johnson spared no effort in buttering up the right people while at the same time treating with contempt those whom he was sure would and could never be of any use to him.<BR>His duplicity is the most disturbing aspect of his personality. He is loyal to no one, not even his own father, and shows no compunction about playing the role of Judas when he smells personal advantage in doing so. It was his skill as a reader of men that allowed him to do so time and again without permanent negative consequences to himself.<BR>Though the picture Caro paints is of a Johnson devoid of scruple or principles, he shows also that underneath a conniving exterior, Johnson did care about poor people to some extent as is shown during the time he taught school in Cotulla.<BR>The reader will be spellbound by tales of Johnson's genius on the campaign trail as well as his ability to extract monetary support from wealthy benefactors ofall political stripes. At a young age, he climbs rapidly as his political savvy opens doors for him all the way to the White House where he enjoys an influence with the president far beyond what most junior congressmen can ever hope to obtain.<BR>This volume culminates with the story of Johnson's abortive first run for the Senate and subsequent IRS investigation of his campaign's financing that came close to ending his career. Those who know something of Johnson already, particularly the story of him stealing the 1948 Senatorial election will find it ironic that he tried the same thing in the 1940 special election but was stymied when his chief opponent was able to steal more votes than he did.<BR>One of the most fascinating aspects of his political personality is that he really did not need a weatherman to see which way the wind was blowing. He had an instinctive feel for the pulse of the people and was able to parlay his intuition into victories in the political arena.<BR>I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in LBJ. There is a wealth of well-documented and well-presented information that leaves the reader feeling that he/she has seen into the soul of the book's subject. Path to Power was so engrossing, I can't wait to get started on the second volume.	2004-03-23
US	51228286	R2LPEMCP4CQZ3E	0812932021	187071102	How Hitler Could Have Won World War II: The Fatal Errors That Led to Nazi Defeat	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Let The Generals Run The Wars	Ah, this is a fun book full of interesting speculation about the end result of WWII had Hitler allowed his best generals to conduct the war instead of interfering on every level. The fact that it is written by a respected military historian adds believability to the speculations.<br />Hitler certainly made many mistakes that can be identified by even the least perceptive student of history. Dunkirk is the most glaring example.<br />Many people point to the invasion of the Soviet Union as Hitler's gravest error, but the war need not have been lost there had Hitler listened to his generals, as Alexander shows the reader many times. Even the debacle at Stalingrad need not have been the turning point that it became.<br />Alexander argues that if Rommel had been given the men and materiel that General Thoma recommended after a fact-finding reconnaissance of the military situation in North Africa, then the Germans would have seized Malta, (thus rendering Gibraltar unimportant), the Suez Canal and would easily have been able to push to seize Middle Eastern oil fields and drive north to the southern Soviet border. And the proximity of the Nazis at that point to India may have emboldened the Azad Hind revolutionaries there, further frustrating the British war effort.<br />I agree with Alexander's argument that the German invasion of the Soviet Union from the west, coupled with seizure of Trans-Caucasian oilfields would have rendered Stalin's position untenable and would have resulted in the collapse of the Soviet Union, or in a separate peace between Stalin and Hitler. That would not be out of the question since Hitler had already conquered the area he intended as Lebensraum for the German people. Despite what people are fed almost since birth, Hitler had no intention of trying to conquer the world. His ambition was German hegemony in Europe. His only reason for being in North Africa was that the British were there.<br />Hitler's last chance at some kind of settlement of the war that left him in charge and Germany enlarged would have been had he listened to his generals at Normandy, but he didn't and that ensured the destruction of Naziism while it assured that the struggle against Communism envisioned by Patton was at hand.<br />Of course, Alexander could also have written a book about the many times he mentions when the Allies could have delivered a decisive blow to the Nazis had their leadership been better.<br />The general staff should make the plans, but plans often go awry. The field commanders should have been given sufficient authority so that they could take advantage of opportunities for victory or escape from defeat wherever they appeared. The lesson of the war and of this book is a simple one:Let the generals run the wars. That's what they are trained to do, that's what they are paid to do.<br />Unfortunately, egos and politics diverted what should have been a focus on victory on both sides. Fortunately for the Allies, their overwhelming superiority in men and materiel gave them the wherewithal to rebound from their many mistakes.<br />How Hitler Could Have Won WWII is fast paced, easy to read, and interesting. I recommend it to anyone who is fascinated by WWII and who enjoys mulling over possibilities and missed opportunities.left him in charge and Germany enlarged would have been had he listened to his generals at Normandy, but he didn't and that ensured the destruction of Naziism while it assured that the struggle against Communism envisioned by Patton was at hand.<BR>Of course, Alexander could also have written a book about the many times he mentions when the Allies could have delivered a decisive blow to the Nazis had their leadership been better.<BR>The general staff should make the plans, but plans often go awry. The field commanders should have been given sufficient authority so that they could take advantage of opportunities for victory or escape from defeat wherever they appeared. The lesson of the war and of this book is a simple one:Let the generals run the wars. That's what they are trained to do, that's what they are paid to do.<BR>Unfortunately, egos and politics diverted what should have been a focus on victory on both sides. Fortunately for the Allies, their overwhelming superiority in men and materiel gave them the wherewithal to rebound from their many mistakes.<BR>How Hitler Could Have Won WWII is fast paced, easy to read, and interesting. I recommend it to anyone who is fascinated by WWII and who enjoys mulling over possibilities and missed opportunities.	2003-11-06
US	51228286	RZVAALU85NJ0R	0465043089	98651750	The Hidden Hitler	Books	3	9	25	N	N	Sensationalism and Surmise	Lothar Machtan's opus is certainly interesting but nothing within convinced me that Hitler was a homosexual or that his sexual proclivities had any bearing on the conduct of his regime.<BR>Perhaps it is because both Hitler's crimes and his accomplishments were so great that the matter of his sexuality has been seen by other historians as utterly unimportant. Or perhaps that the present world's obsession with sex ensured that a book on Hitler's sexuality was inevitable. The fact remains, out of the thousands of books written about Der Fuehrer and his government, no author has expended much ink on the subject until now.<BR>This book seems aimed more at a US audience than a European one. Some of the \\"signs\\" of Hitler's homosexuality as explained to us by Machtan would be considered perfectly normal behavior in the Central European context of Hitler's times. Lots of close male friends? So what? Hitler liked the opera? So did millions of heterosexual European men of his day! ... Shy around women? So are millions of other straight men.<BR>Hitler did have an array of strange people around him, some of those were gay. In his early days, he expressed tolerance for those who were gay on their own time as long as they performed their duties while they were on the clock. Today, that is considered the PC view and is accepted by the majority. So how does his tolerance of the homosexuality of others make him gay too?<BR>Machtan points at the several attempts at blackmailing Hitler by former cronies and at Hitler's secrecy about his youth as definitive evidence of Hitler's homosexuality. The blackmail is never spelled out, so it must be of a sexual nature, right? To me its all sensationalism and surmise.<BR>Read the book, yes, but read it with eyes wide open and take it with a large grain of salt	2003-08-15
US	51228286	R14PBB3CLIKFR8	0316610690	681232235	The Secret Knowledge of Water : Discovering the Essence of the American Desert	Books	5	57	58	N	Y	A Fascinating Read!	I've lived in the desert, I've hiked in the desert, I've camped in the desert and I've cursed the desert but nothing I have read before made me understand and love the desert like The Secret Knowledge of Water does.<BR>Until I read Craig Childs' essay, I never gave much thought to water in the desert except that without it you die. Childs paints a vivid picture of the juxtaposition of desert and water in all of its manifestations. I can still picture the pools of water in the tinajas of the barren, sun-baked Cabeza Prieta and the thunderstorm-fed floods on the Arizona Strip. I can feel the terror he must have felt squatting on a ledge in a feeder canyon of the Grand Canyon as flood waters rose and swirled around him and his relief as they receded, leaving behind tons of debris. I can also feel his awe at the power and majesty of nature at the same time. I can feel his exhilaration as he bathes in a deep, cool waterpocket after a long day's hike. And I can sense his deep respect for the original peoples of the desert and how they have adapted to its caprice.<BR>It is obvious from his style that Childs has an abiding love for the desert. If you know and love the desert, you will find The Secret Knowledge of Water a fascinating read and come away with new respect for the desert and for the waters which both nurture and shape it.	2003-08-15
US	51228286	R3G38GUR46LJ8	0375507310	30095290	The Facts of Life and Other Dirty Jokes	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Peering Into The Mind Of A Legend	I must be one of the few Texans who is not a huge Willie Nelson fan, yet there are times when I really enjoy listening to his songs. I always recognized that Nelson was a great songwriter, but I never thought of him before as an author.<BR>OK, it might not seem like its too difficult to write a book like this. Mix in some song lyrics, a few jokes, a few personal stories and blend in a few anecdotes and you've got a book. Nelson actually makes it a book worth reading as he shares his wit and observations on sundry topics with his fans. The words seemingly pour from his pen with aplomb as he writes in such a winning manner that the reader will not want to put the book down before finishing it.<BR>This is not great literature, but as you read and laugh along, you can't help but feel that you are peering into the mind of a legend.<BR>After reading it, I came away with a new appreciation of what Nelson is all about. If you like Willie on any level, you should enjoy reading it too.	2003-06-03
US	51228286	R1QBSPZY1JW1L0	1568490097	611802086	A Texan Looks at Lyndon	Books	4	58	64	N	N	A Devastating Diatribe	It would be an understatement to say that author Haley does not like Lyndon Baines Johnson. And despite the fact that his book is an unrelenting tirade against all things Lyndon, it provides a useful service in reminding the reader of how Johnson trampled and double-crossed friend and foe alike in his single-minded lust for power.<BR>I am fairly conservative politically, but I am open-minded enough to recognize and oppose corruption whether practiced by liberals or conservatives. In my lifetime, Johnson, Nixon, and Clinton have been shining examples of the worst impulses in American presidential politics in which greed and lust for either power or money ended up overshadowing any of their real achievements.<BR>Haley shows that Johnson was a man of few real principles, neither liberal nor conservative, but rather a man who usually always wanted to know which way the wind was blowing before taking a stand on any important issue. Johnson was a man who used all his powers of persuasion and veiled threats to get what he wanted and woe unto anyone who stood in his way. He was a man who knew and used the old adage \\"It's not what you know, but who you know\\" to Machiavellian extremes. But he was also a man of sometimes great political courage who would rarely give an inch once he took a stand. He hated those who opposed him, nursed resentments, and wreaked revenge on those who crossed him in the least as most of his enemies and many of his friends learned to their sorrow. From the earliest days, he was involved with corrupt Texas politicians from the local to the state level and swam in the seas of corporate corruption with the likes of the infamous swindler Billy Sol Estes and others of his stripe.<BR>Admittedly, the conservatism of the author is the conservatism of a bygone age and the reader will recognize that the book is meant to be a partisan attack on Johnson. Some of the attacks on Johnson are made solely for political reasons as Johnson was clever enough to outmaneuver Haley's ideological brothers and sisters. But Johnson surrounded himself with enough scummy characters and got involved in so many underhanded political AND business deals that he deserves the rough treatment given him in Haley's devastating diatribe.<BR>No matter your political leanings, your eyes will be opened when you read A Texan Looks At Lyndon. The book is well-written and often riveting in its allegations and revelations, but it loses one star for occasional hysteria. If US or Texas politics interests you, then I highly recommend this.	2003-05-31
US	51228286	R3I85U23Y1YASB	0684192152	854045293	Katyn: The Untold Story of Stalin's Polish Massacre	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A Chilling Indictment	Fifty eight years after the end of WWII, the holocaust remains under constant public scrutiny while most other of the almost innumerable atrocities of that great conflict continue to be either ignored or pooh-poohed by those who continue to rationalize them for personal political reasons. Because of the incessant yowling about the holocaust, people tend to forget that many people suffered on all sides during the war. Jews were neither the only victims, nor were they even the war's chief victims.<BR>Of the belligerents, Germany, Russia, and Poland suffered the greatest human and material losses. Of the three, only Poland was blameless in the end for the death and destruction wrought by a war which passed over its territory twice in five years.<BR>Most of us have at least heard about the massacre of Polish officers, professionals, and intelligentsia by the Soviets at Katyn Forest. Had it not been for a fortuitous find by German forces occupying that part of the Soviet Union and the meticulous way in which they handled it, we might today be saying that Katyn was just another one of Hitler's monstrous crimes.<BR>In Katyn:The Untold Story Of Stalin's Polish Massacre, Allen Paul puts human faces on the victims by introducing us to some of them and their families before the war begins and then following the odyssies of the families and their men as both are arrested and deported as war begins and the invading Communists seek to purge Poland of class enemies and those who might in the future oppose them. (One family lives out the war in the German General Government, but the man of the house had been arrested in Lwow by the Soviets and eventually became a victim of the murders collectively known as the Katyn massacre.)<BR>Particularly grim are the chapters which recount how the (male) victims are led to believe they are being repatriated, are prepared a feast, then led away afterwards to their horror and dismay to the killing fields at Katyn. The methodical and inhuman wayof dispatch is almost sickening but the real shock comes when the bodies are discovered by the Nazis after they invade the Soviet Union. Most are virtually fused together and partially mummified by being tightly packed at burial, many stacked in the burial pits like so much cordwood.<BR>Shocking, but not surprising given Stalin's treatment of his own people, is the way Polish women and children are literally dumped in the steppes and in Siberia and expected to fend for themselves in the harsh, unforgiving climate.<BR>The families of Paul's focus do eventually make it out after suffering the greatest hardships. The author has met these survivors, of course, and their narratives put some meat on the dry bones of history. Millions of other Polish deportees never made it home.<BR>Allen Paul's book is a chilling indictment, not only of Stalin and his murderous NKVD, but also of US and British diplomacy which failed to take any steps to ameliorate the conditions of Poles who had been arbitrarily arrested and summarily deported. The weakness of Churchill and Roosevelt in the face of Communist demands began with the suppression of evidence of Soviet culpability for Katyn and their failure to support postwar Polish territorial integrity at the Teheran and Yalta conferences. It then continued with tacit support for the postwar dispensation in Poland in which hundreds of thousands more were murdered by Stalin's henchmen, leading ultimately to the Iron Curtain and forty-five years of the Cold War.<BR>You can tell by the tiny number of in-print books on this subject how little historical relevance the Katyn murders are given. I invite you to read this book. It may give you a whole new perspective on WWII and the moral dangers of alliance with the devil.	2003-05-05
US	51228286	R2ML2JXXDY7JTY	0316908339	923066122	Bad Seed: The Biography of Nick Cave	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Better Than Dax	Being a rather recently converted fanatic of the music of Nick Cave, I knew nothing about him and only tidbits about where he came from musically. I first read The Life and Music of Nick Cave by Maximilian Dax, but it was a very uneven bit of puffery. So, hungering for more information, I bought Bad Seed.<br />Bad Seed is not a bad book. While Ian Johnston is not the most eloquent writer around, he is much better than Dax. Bad Seed is well organized, informative, and at times very witty. And while this volume does not contain near the number of pictures that Dax's does, the photos it does have are germane to Cave's career.<br />Johnston's portrait of Cave's personality gives the reader a fresh understanding of what he is about. He charts Cave's growth from a brash and impetuous young rock shouter to the mature and nuanced performer he became. And I like some of the stories of some of his early riotous behavior. One that strikes me as humorous is the story of him playing at a street festival in Melbourne and his father coming unexpectedly to see him perform for the first time. Cave was rolling around in the gutter screaming into the microphone when he just happened to glimpse his father looking at him with a look of total bewilderment on his face. Picture that! Other stories of drunken revelry and drug crazed antics were equally amusing. But it is also refreshing to read how Cave took control of his life and drew back from the abyss into which so many performers fall.<br />In addition to his music, Bad Seed provides a look at his writing, his acting, and his twin obsessions with the Bible and with the degeneracy into which one can sink. One learns too, of artists who have influenced his songwriting and style. I knew he admired Lee Hazlewood and Johnny Cash from Dax, I had no idea he liked Karen Carpenter!<br />The only negative really is that Johnston spends too much time on Cave's early years and not nearly enough time on his life and music from Tender Prey forward.<br />If you are eager to know about Nick Cave, Bad Seed is a good place to start.ou are eager to know about Nick Cave, Bad Seed is a good place to start.	2003-04-25
US	51228286	R2DBXUOC4Y5AN5	1574670662	632033305	Astor Piazzolla - A Memoir (Hardcover)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Understanding Piazzolla	I have read the Piazzolla biography Le Grand Tango and came away with a great deal of knowledge about Astor Piazzolla and his music. But it was not until I read Astor Piazzolla: A Memoir that I felt that I came to understand Piazzolla.<BR>I like this format. Natalio Gorin's interviews with El Troesma are not the chronological, blow by blow account of Piazzolla's life I expected. Gorin asks some questions, but in a series of interviews generally allows Piazzolla to warm to whatever topic develops and then expand on it as the spirit moves him. He only prompts Piazzolla at times when he wants to steer the conversation in a particular direction, such as Piazzolla's politics or his love life.<BR>This is really a tremendous work. One can feel Piazzolla's struggles as he describes his many clashes with the tango establishment and his constant fight to make a place for himself in Argentine and world music. Particularly interesting is the chapter in which he talks about numerous well-known musicians and those who influenced him, and those for whom he felt contempt. Particularly poignant is his relationship with the great bandoneonist Anibal Troilo who would often criticize Piazzolla's work, but at the same time express great affection and admiration for him.<BR>I am amazed at the passions of his audiences whenever he would introduce new elements into his work. That people would actually riot and threaten a musician with death boggles the mind, but I am sure that reactions like that only more firmly convinced Piazzolla of the rightness of his course. Piazzolla was a fighter and he answered his critics not only with his fists, but with one musical masterpiece after another.<BR>After Piazzolla is through talking, the book winds up with Gorin tying up loose ends and analyzing some of Piazzolla's greatest triumphs and greatest disappointments. He also takes a number of swipes at Aldo Pagani, a man Gorin considers to be Piazzolla's Rasputin. Gorin's conclusion is then followed bya couple of short commentaries by some of Piazzolla's collaborators and a discography of Piazzolla's recordings.<BR>I highly recommend this book both by itself and as a complement to Le Grand Tango as a guide to understanding one of the greatest and most complex musician/composers of the 20th century.	2003-03-27
US	51228286	R2INXWID4BQU4I	3931126277	791577174	The Life and Music of Nick Cave	Books	3	10	14	N	Y	Only Somewhat Informative, But Great Pics	I suppose I expected a little more meat in a book of this scope, but in the world of pop music writing substance is often way down the list.<BR>The authors give an overview of Cave's early life and how he came to be involved in music. It does a fairly good job of charting the formation of his first bands, the move to London, the making of the Birthday Party, the years in Berlin, then Cave's meteoric rise at the helm of the Bad Seeds. But overall, the book is only mildly informative and skips around incoherently at times. The quality of the writing is spotty but it still manages to convey some sense of the man and his motivations.<BR>What I didn't like about the book was the author taking a couple of gratuitous cracks at Margaret Thatcher. What does Thatcher have to do with a book about Nick Cave? And do the authors assume that all Nick Cave fans dislike her for some reason? Straying from the subject can be dangerous and in this case is a distraction from the reader gaining an increased understanding of Nick Cave and his music.<BR>What I did like was the photography. The book is packed with great shots of Cave, his friends, family, and colleagues in a variety of situations. If you are a serious fan of Cave's, the book is worth the price for the pics alone.	2002-12-31
US	51228286	R3J7LKWI7EPGJ3	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Yet Another Indictment	Let me first proudly admit to being a conservative on most important issues. I like conservative magazines, conservative radio hosts, and conservative editorials. Why? Because they reinforce my conservative worldview. BUT, one thing I don't want dished up conservative is the news. That I want straight, just the facts, and I'll decide for myself. Why? Because I am not a knee-jerk conservative. If an issue interests me, I like to examine that issue from many sides so that I can decide it for myself without some news anchor trying to steer my thoughts in any one particular direction.<BR>That's where Bias comes in. I gave up network news and &quot;mainstream&quot; US news magazines years ago. I get most of my news from a slightly left of center English news magazine that has more US news in it than the three leading US news magazines combined. I gave all those US news sources up because their bias against conservative ideas and personalities is palpable. They don't report news, they concoct stories and feed them to a trusting public.<BR>I recently read Ann Coulter's book on media bias and it was what one expected to hear from a partisan conservative. But I wanted to hear from a liberal, too, and Goldberg's book satisfied that desire. He certainly gives the thoughtful reader much to ponder.<BR>OK, yes he does whine a little bit about his treatment at CBS after he outed some of its newspeople as less than even-handed.<BR>I understand that no organization likes an in-house  whistleblower, even an organization that makes heroes out of whistleblowers in the wider world. I also understand that employers expect unquestioning loyalty of their employees. But Goldberg did a service to the country in showing how the only kind of diversity tolerated where he worked was diversity of outward characteristics, not diversity of thought and spirit. He shows how millions have been led to think about AIDS, homelessness, and politics in general in ways that are grounded solely in emotion rather than in reason.<BR>While reading, the open-minded reader will quickly see the truth in Goldberg's allegations. And he tries very hard not to over-dramatize. After all, he remains an instinctive liberal. His sense of fairplay has led him to demur on naming several sources whose careers would be hurt by being politically outed, and thats the only real drawback to the book. Hey, I want names, dates, and places!<BR>The most interesting chapter to me was entitled Liberal Hate Speech.Just imagine the liberal network employee hate quotes about conservatives coming from the mouth of a conservative network employee about liberals and then think about how long the conservative would remain employed.<BR>Imagine John Stossel praising Pinochet on national TV for bringing stability to Chile and commenting that Allende had deserved his fate. Imagine! Imagine Cal Thomas' newspaper column saying that it would be great had the Clintons and Tom Daschle been on the plane with Paul Wellstone or on the plane with Mel Carnahan. Imagine!<BR>Liberals regularly praise Castro and minimize the brutality of his regime, usually remarking on their health care system. Never mind that there is no freedom in Cuba and that their vaunted health care is a sham. Federal Penitentiaries have great health care too, but who wants to live in one?<BR>I could go on for pages, but I'll close here by recommending Bias to interested readers as yet another indictment of our major media's failure to provide fair and balanced coverage of important news events.	2002-12-31
US	51228286	R24VX3615FCTWM	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	39	53	N	N	Coulter Spells It Out	After reading several dozen of the more critical reviews of Slander, it is obvious that many of those who dislike the book and its author never actually read it and posted a review with the sole intent of hurling invective at the author. If one already hates the author and despises her ideas, then he/she is not likely to waste several hours reading a book with which disagreement is a foregone conclusion.<BR>Yes, Ann Coulter is controversial and she can be polarizing. I have seen her on TV and after reading Slander, I can tell you she is far more articulate and less excitable in print than she is in a discussion. Here she really spells out so many instances of bias against even mildly conservative thinkers and ideas by the mainstream media that every thinking person has to sit back and say that she is so right. That doesn't mean liberals should not gloat about it. If I were liberal, I would be quite satisfied with the media's demonization of things conservative, and I would recognize and even revel in the anti-conservative bias of nearly every major media outlet.<BR>Coulter says little new to those of us who recognize bias on a daily basis, but she has a lot to say to those fair-minded liberals and moderates who never really had the occasion to think about how the American people are basically fed managed, scripted news stories designed to provoke certain emotions. She tells us who, where, when and why and provides copious footnotes to document her charges against those deemed guilty.<BR>I highly recommend Slander to anyone interested in politics, particularly to the non-conservative who can by reading the book get a better grasp of why conservatives appear to be angered by media bias against them.	2002-12-14
US	51228286	RH2CB0MVTVAPY	0292725167	669352508	The Cast Iron Forest: A Natural and Cultural History of the North American Cross Timbers	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Everything You Wanted To Know...	I am not a native Texan, but I love the place and so eagerly read anything to do with the state. While reading, I have often encountered references to the Cross Timbers region and the difficulties of traversing it in the 19th century and before.<BR>In the past 20 years, I have had the good fortune to travel almost everywhere in the state and have seen the Cross Timbers close up, hiking in state parks or just passing through on back roads. I saw close up the thick gnarled forests interspersed with glades and prairie, but still wondered why the Cross Timbers were anticipated with a greater sense of dread than were other large forests in the country.<BR>Enter &quot;The Cast Iron Forest&quot;. In this informative tome, Richard Francaviglia will tell you everything you wanted to know about the Cross Timbers and more. In a very readable way, Francaviglia lays out just what the Cross Timbers are and proceeds through the history of the area right up to the present. The book not only gives the reader a great overview of the area, but also imparts understanding of patterns of settlement and the waxing and waning of both man and nature in this dynamic area.<BR>I also learned that the Cross Timbers extend far beyond the borders of Texas into Oklahoma and Kansas. The author concentrates on the Texas portion, but gives some insight into the development and decay of Cross Timbers settlement in Oklahoma. However, very little is said about the small portion of Kansas that is a natural continuation of Cross Timbers geological and biological features.<BR>I would have been happier had the book contained more detailed maps and charts, but overall I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the land and people of Texas.	2002-11-11
US	51228286	R2QLPWZQY0CKQO	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Preaching To The Choir	Pat Buchanan's newest book points out with clear logic the validity of his views on the future of America, but I am afraid he is preaching to the choir.<BR>He has been so unjustly demonized in the press that few people outside those who basically share his views will read this call to action. Contrary to the what the industry reviewer says, I find that he goes out of his way to be moderate in his presentation of what he deems to be the moral and demographic crisis which confronts America in the next century. The issue really IS about what kind of country the US will be in the future and what that means both for us and for the world.<BR>I don't agree with every position Buchanan takes, and I am not at all religious but I think that he is right that the culture will die without its religious underpinnings. I also agree that multiculturalism will eventually result in the permanent dissolution of the union.<BR>Liberals who are also patriots should put aside their visceral dislike of Buchanan and what they think he stands for and read the book to find out what it is he does stand for. Conservatives should discard the establishment conservative's litmus tests on key issues and see by reading this book that a more populist approach sometimes does make sense.<BR>All should approach The Death of The West with an open mind and ponder some of the basic truths within. The book is well-written, fast-paced, and never gets bogged down in arcane discussions. I highly recommend it!	2002-08-18
US	51228286	R3M0GKU4TKIWIN	0767904478	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	3	44	48	N	Y	Breezy Anecdotes	I wasn't looking for some grand new revelations about WWII when I bought this book and I didn't get any. What I did get was an easy-to-read series of inspirational stories and breezy anecdotes about how French vignerons managed to keep their livelihoods and some of their wines at a time when the outcome of the war was very much in doubt.<BR>There is a decidedly pro-French slant to the stories, most of the Germans are made to look like bumbling Colonel Klinks and the French are mostly portrayed as patriotic tools of or members of the Resistance, cleverly hobbling German designs at every turn. To be fair, some Germans are singled out as \\"righteous gentiles\\", but these are never Mein Kampf-believing Nazis.<BR>What I like is what I learned about the wine business. There are all sorts of little tidbits about how winemakers can adulterate wine, mislabel wine, and generally fool the general wine-consuming public, not to mention the Wehrmacht. But the book is also filled with tales of winemaking as a craft and a labor of love.<BR>The climax of the book is foreshadowed in the beginning, when French troops were racing to be first to Hitler's Eagles Nest to get a crack at repatriating the fine wines they knew were there.<BR>American readers who were there might well be annoyed by the feeling that the French High Command thought more about rescuing the wine than they did about helping to finish off the Nazis.<BR>That aside, if you love wine as well as stories of good guys outsmarting the bad, then you should enjoy Wine and War.	2002-07-24
US	51228286	R1MF3AW7HXZIC	0151005265	167410764	Selkirk's Island: The True and Strange Adventures of the Real Robinson Crusoe	Books	5	20	26	N	Y	...And He Didn't Even Have A Pair of Hipwaders!!	I have read all the reviews here and have read the book too, enjoying it thoroughly. I find Souhami's meandering style and graphic imagery fascinating. There is no way she could write a book that is just about Selkirk's sojourn on the island, there just isn't enough information. So instead, she weaves a tapestry of the harshness of eighteenth century sealife and lets us imagine for ourselves what it would be like to sail the seas with men like William Dampier in search of booty.<BR>Alexander Selkirk was not a nice guy and he travelled in the company of others who were also not nice guys. But these rough men had their own code and sense of fair play, so when Selkirk argued with and refused to obey his incompetent superior, he was marooned rather than executed as he probably would have been under similar circumstances in the Royal Navy.<BR>Selkirk was of an age when people knew how to do things with their hands, they had to in order to survive. With a bare minimum of necessities, he was able to carve out a lonely yet comfortable existence on his isle of exile. Souhami paints a beautiful portrait of how the lush the island was and how bountiful it must have seemed to the marooned sailor. Her descriptions of the flora, fauna, and topography are very evocative.<BR>Beyond the isle itself, Souhami expands on the geopolitical situation and the position of the English vis-a-vis the Spanish in the struggle for control of the seas and thus of trade. I learned quite a few interesting things about the Spanish settlements and inter-settlement communications reading this book. Souhami's prose makes the era come alive.<BR>Despite all the privations of life at sea, pirates and privateers were guys who were truly free. Selkirk's life is one of breaking the bonds of social custom and morality. His instincts were basic, he was fatalistic, and he had no real interests beyond satisfying his urges and doing what it took so that he could indulge his fancy. His sham marriages show that he saw women the way he saw the goats of his island, as objects of sexual conquest.<BR>Selkirk's Island is a book filled with fascinating facts woven together with logical conjecture. I recommend it as a spellbinding read for anyone who is comfortable thinking \\"outside the box\\".	2002-06-11
US	51228286	RJV0SIWBZZ2X0	076285202X	461529119	South	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Gripping Tale	Ernest Shackleton has always been one of my heroes. The story of the Endurance and how the Shackleton Expedition kept body and soul together and made it safely home after losing its ship in the Weddell Sea ice pack is one of the most heroic episodes in the annals of human adventure. Hollywood could not write a more compelling epic.<BR>I bought the book because I wanted to read a first-hand account of the Expedition, despite being somewhat afraid of its being bogged down in technical details. It was not. Once the scene was set, what the reader gets is a fast-moving, easy-to-read, and very gripping tale of the attention to duty, the guts, and the undying optimism it took to overcome what must have seemed like insurmountable odds. Shackleton's wry sense of humor and his willingness to take calculated risks and make hard decisions undoubtedly helped to inspire his men to work as a team.<BR>You will sit on the edge of your seat as you read of the harrowing voyage in the tiny dinghy across the raging seas as Shackleton and a chosen few set out from Elephant Island in a desperate attempt to reach South Georgia. You will feel the weariness and the agony of his party as they seek to find a way to the other side through what had been considered inaccessible territory. And you will feel the sense of relief and triumph as the party stumbles into the whaling station where it was able to organize a rescue for the comrades left behind on Elephant Island.<BR>That is really the climax of the story. Some readers may find the second portion of the book a bit anticlimactic, and it is, but that does not take away from the main story. The second part merely recounts the trials and tribulations of the other half of the expedition. The story of those men and their ship is interesting in its own right and is included here only because Shackleton, as overall commander of the expedition, included their story in his journal.<BR>Sir Ernest Shackleton's story is an inspiration to me. His heroismshines in a world that produces too few heroes. I highly recommend this book to all who like a good story. Perhaps you will be inspired too.	2002-03-08
US	51228286	RN1V29OOWZDLS	0195140532	660174403	Hitler's Vienna: A Dictator's Apprenticeship	Books	4	32	32	N	N	A Valuable Study	I thought I knew a lot about Adolf Hitler's life, even his youth, until I stumbled upon this book. Hitler's Vienna provides a fascinating glimpse into the social, economic, and political milieu in which young Hitler found himself immersed when he came from the provinces to the capital of the crumbling Austro-Hungarian empire in order to pursue his dream of a career in art or architecture.<BR>The book is really less about Hitler himself than about the forces which helped to shape his weltanschauung. Though he reportedly not an anti-Semite as a youth, it was in Vienna that Hitler learned the language of anti-semitism and nationalism. <BR>As I engrossed myself in the book, my thoughts often wandered to comparing the identity politics and quota demands of Austro-Hungarian politicians with the increasing ethnic balkanization here in the United States and wondered whether such a man as Hitler could not one day spring from our political landscape.<BR>One of the chief things I learned is that political and ethnic anti-Semitism was already a very potent force among both the more radical German-nationalist followers of Georg Schoenerer as well as among the more mainstream supporters of the enormously popular mayor of Vienna, Karl Lueger. There was also a large groundswell of anti-Czech sentiment due to a heavy flow of Czechs into Vienna and to the mistreatment by Czechs of Germans in Sudetenland, a situation that Hitler was later to temporarily rectify.<BR>The most surprising fact about Hitler brought to light is that he had many Jewish friends during his Vienna days. And I had to laugh at the part where he was described by a former fellow boarder at the men's hostel as having arrived wearing shoulder-length hair and wearing nothing but a coat because he didn't have a shirt.<BR>Though the book adds much to what we knew of Hitler, it comes no closer than any other of really getting inside his head to explain his true motivations. After all, hundreds of thousands of Europeans hated Jews and lived through the same hardships that young Hitler did, but only Hitler took that extra step and made the end of Jewry his life's work. Nevertheless, this book is a very valuable study and is an easy and fascinating read that comes highly recommended to all those who yearn to know more about the life and times of Adolf Hitler.	2001-12-26
US	51228286	R2L3U8XGXVC8MB	1929631057	298606154	Hitler's Table Talk, 1941-1944: His Private Conversations	Books	5	161	179	N	Y	A Little Knowledge Can Be a Dangerous Thing	I decided to buy this book after reading industry and reader commentary on it. The first thing that struck me was that these are not monologues as some have supposed, they are merely the record of what only Hitler said. The original purpose of their transcription was to save for posterity the words of the Fuehrer in order that they might see how wise he was. Far from being the vulgar parvenu that he is often portrayed, Hitler was a widely read self-educated man with an amazing grasp of many subjects. If this book were to be published without any reference to Jews, the war, the Nazi Party or to Hitler himself, most reasonable people of all political persuasions would find something in his words with which to heartily agree. Look at his pronouncements on economics, on the environment (he was an ecologist before most knew the term), on modernization, on culture, on being a vegetarian, on alcohol and even on smoking and you'll see that in today's America he would be seen as slightly center-left in most areas. Its the other things he said and did that left the world with the image of him as a monster. Despite his knowledge and insight, we all know that he did not use them to best advantage thus dragging his country and much of Europe into a shambles from which some parts have yet to recover. Read this book and you'll see that much of what he foresaw eventually came to pass: The dissolution of Jugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, the dismemberment of the British Empire, the push for a united Europe and even the loss of the war by the side that did not have access to adequate raw materials for its successful prosecution. Yes, Hitler tended to pontificate but as you read keep in mind that only his part of most conversations were being taken down. Read this book and you will also see the truth to the old adage that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing.	2001-04-11
US	51228286	R9A3ONA0OUG5G	0195127773	21387994	Le Grand Tango: The Life and Music of Astor Piazzolla	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	An Engaging Hagiography	Nearly ten years after Astor Piazzolla's death, the debate still rages about whether or not his music is &quot;tango&quot;. Well, some of it is, and some of it isn't. But the roots of all his music lie deep in the tango tradition and whether or not a particular piece is or isn't tango is of no real importance. The fact is that Astor Piazzolla composed some of the finest music in any genre and all Argentines can take pride in that. I have been a fan of Astor Piazzolla for nearly 30 years but only knew the music. After having read Le Grand Tango, I now feel as though I know the man. Having &quot;met&quot; him, my understanding and admiration of both the music and the man has increased exponentially. Azzi and Collier have authored an easy to follow, entertaining and informative book about El Maestro. One learns not only about his music but about his forceful personality and the forces which shaped Piazzolla and drove him to be the most dazzling musician of the 20th century. His life, his loves, his triumphs and his failures all spring to life here. Though most readers will likely be hardcore fans of Piazzolla, its flowing style makes it an engaging hagiographical read for anyone who has even a mild interest in music history or in the forces and personalities which have shaped and regenerated tango throughout second half of the 20th century.	2001-02-22
US	51228286	R2IH5YB0OVZYKH	0306806614	469952310	Nuremberg Diary	Books	3	26	43	N	N	Dubious Justice	What makes Nuremberg Diaries at all interesting is author Gilbert's insider's view of victor's justice. But for the moderating influence of British and American jurisprudence, Nuremberg would have turned out to be a kangaroo court in the grand style of that great &quot;defender&quot; of human rights, Josef Stalin. It is fascinating to read how the defeated, on trial for their lives, divide into opposing groups, each pointing the finger at the other. Gilbert roams freely among the accused, sometimes provoking, sometimes digging, not at all understanding what went on in the minds of those accused of such enormities. The problem with the Nuremberg trials is that they were held to assuage the public consciences of the victorious allies and to seek revenge for acts which could have been prevented if those same allies had followed other policies. As far as international law in effect at the time of the alleged crimes, the trial provided dubious justice at best. The author himself lends scant credibility to his pose as a disinterested observer as he frequently mocks and provokes his subjects particularly the utterly degenerate Goering. The defendants claim that &quot;they had acted in good faith according to the standards of their respective positions and professions&quot; should have been a good enough defense for most of them as their country was at war. In most countries, particularly in dictatorships, the penalty for refusing an order in time of war, lawful or not, is a date with the rope or the firing squad. Every citizen becomes an instrument of the state. That the Soviets sat in judgement of the defeated when they were guilty of far greater crimes is an indelible stain on the fairness of the trial. What should have been done instead was that the cases should have been handed to the German Civil Administration for trial under German law as was in effect at the times of the crimes. Despite its defects, Nuremberg Diary is interesting for anyone wishing to peer into theminds of the vanquished Nazi leadership.	2000-12-24
US	51228286	R2YTP2WOL2V9KE	0965649288	371564375	White Power	Books	3	26	57	N	Y	Food For Thought	Many people are inclined to think that someone who describes himself as a Nazi has nothing worthwhile to say. That mistake was made once before with horrific consequences so we diss a well-articulated vision at our peril.  When I read White Power, I thought to myself that while there are not many  Americans who would describe themselves as Nazis, there are an awful lot of  them who feel the way Rockwell did. I meet them all the time and from all  walks of life. The reader must approach this book dispassionately and  without prejudice. Rockwell believed the sight of a swastika caused his  political enemies to behave irrationally and thus into his hands. Don't let  such irrationality grip you. If you are Jewish, you should read this book  just to find out why Rockwell developed such antipathy toward &quot;The  Jews&quot;. Though you probably despise him, such a read can be very  instructive. As usual, it turns out that the actions of a few color the  view of the many. The book starts slowly as Rockwell recounts anecdotes  about Blacks, Jews, and the degeneration of America then explains his  theory of their pivotal roles in American life couched in a metaphorical  story of gangs of &quot;shipwreckers&quot; of old and the treachery and  connivings of many groups it took to bring a ship up on the rocks so that  it could be looted. The problem with Rockwell's vision is that those he  considers to be modern &quot;shipwreckers&quot; in America are that way  naturally because they are Black, Jewish, or what have you.  Any whites  involved can only be race traitors; he sees the Jews as ringleaders and the  Blacks as their obedient lackeys. What he doesn't see is that these people  he despises could be anything. Some just happen to be Black, Jewish etc.  Many he names are White! We ALL have to be something. While White Power  offers much food for thought, America's problems will never be solved by  going after a racial or religious group. They will be solved when good  peopleof all races, religions, and nationalities agree to do away with the  bad irrespective of the race, creed, or nationality of the malefactors.	2000-07-27
US	51228286	R1PC30K2MSKMBN	0879759739	391204995	Hitler and the Occult	Books	4	35	40	N	Y	Debunking the Bunk	I have read a number of books on Hitler's supposed fascination with, mastery of, and belief in various occult doctrines. In Hitler and the Occult, Ken Anderson delivers a chapter-by-chapter debunking of many of the  theories surrounding Hitler's occultic leanings and gives what appear to be  logical explanations for some of his actions which have been taken by some  to prove his involvement in the occult. Most of the book is spent  deconstructing the theories of Trevor Ravenscroft and reinforcing this  deconstruction by attempting to discredit Ravenscroft himself. I have read  the main target of Anderson's scorn, The Spear of Destiny, and have to  admit that some of Ravenscroft's assertions in that volume seem quite  far-fetched and incredible. But between his wilder claims, Ravenscroft does  offer the reader food for thought. Anderson dissects his more plausible  assertions with the aplomb of an undertaker preparing his umpteenth corpse.  The Spear of Longinus, Lanz von Lebenfels, and the Thule Society are all  given short shrift. Although it is true that many top Nazis were involved  in secret societies and occultic fantasies, that was not uncommon at the  time so there is nothing particularly significant about it. Hitler was more  of a realist and seems to have had little time for or little patience with  such notions. Though one might be tempted to believe that Hitler was  controlled by otherworldly forces with which he had made a Faustian  bargain, I tend toward Anderson's view that that is all nonsense. Reading  this book will help interested persons sort out contradictions in theories  of an occultic Hitler and bring them back to earth with a more prosaic view  of Hitler's actions and motivations.	2000-07-27
US	51228286	R2VO4WI64Q5NMM	1872197132	523782175	Goebbels: Mastermind of the Third Reich	Books	4	80	91	N	Y	Black and White and Every Shade Between	...Most of us can't understand what really goes through the minds of our own politicians and military leaders, much less understand the political landscape of other countries. It is so easy to be simplistic and form dogmatic opinions about that which we really know nothing about. Irving tries to give us a foundation of understanding of the political climate in Germany which culminated with the rise to power of Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. Goebbels' propaganda skills played a huge part in this, glorifying his own party and demolishing the opposition in the minds of the people. The Big Lie is no Goebbels invention, he just made effective use of it. His role in Hitler's rise is not much different than James Carville's role in Clinton's election or Lee Atwater's role in Bush's election. Political consultants the world over pay unspoken homage to the techniques of Joseph Goebbels. Irving's writing is sometimes tedious, I think he dwelt too much on Goebbels' youth, but perhaps he considered the background germane to the development of the reader's understanding of Goebbels' character. And he does ... tend to skip around. Despite the image some people have of Weimar Germany, it was not the democracy we are led to believe it was. Witness Goebbels' constant battles with the arrogant and self-important Police President in Berlin.  Serious political opposition from the right or the left to the established order was brutally suppressed by &quot;Isidor&quot; Weiss. Many of us cannot imagine being jailed for heaping ridicule on a politician, but Goebbels was many times. Given such examples, it is little wonder the Nazis felt they had to be even more ruthless than their opponents once they gained power. Goebbels was subjected to merciless taunting at home and abroad for his club foot. Don't you know that in today's America, such taunting would be actionable?  I did not detect anything in the book to suggest that Irving was in sympathy with Goebbels, Hitler or with Naziism and its crimes real and imagined. He shows Goebbels to have become an arrogant, a cold, cruel, vain and vindictive man as most of the other top Nazis were. Remember as you read, though, that this is a book primarily about Goebbels, not about Hitler. But in this book, you can see Hitler from another angle. Irving's work is certainly not the last word, but it deserves to be read objectively by anyone who hopes to develop an understanding of this watershed period of human history. ... Just as there is more than one side of the Battle of the Alamo, for instance, there is also more than one side of Goebbels, Hitler, Naziism and the Holocaust. Those who try to prevent another view from being heard are no better than the Nazis they so decry. In Goebbels:Mastermind of the Third Reich, David Irving tries to give us the story in black and white and every shade between.	2000-07-05
US	51228286	R3OPI849UEJA4J	1582790310	762726224	Adolf Hitler-A Chilling Tale of Propaganda	Books	5	46	47	N	Y	A Propaganda Masterpiece	I already own this book in the original German so imagine my surprise when I ordered the book here and received a quite faithful reproduction in English with some introductory text added. The book is not really authored  by Dr. Goebbels but is undoubtedly inspired by him and is a propaganda  masterpiece. Back in the 1930s, tobacco cards were quite popular, so all  pictures in the book are reproductions of the front sides of tobacco cards.  The idea with the book was to have the reader fill it in as one might a  stamp album, attaching cards acquired on the matching space in the book.  This format assured that the book did not become a coffee-table book for  mere show, but was actively and eagerly opened regularly as collectors  posted newly acquired photos in their proper places. Stamp collecting was  extremely popular in Europe and in America during the 1930s as were many  associated collecting crazes. National Socialism did not innoculate one  against the urge to collect something as this urge was especially strong in  Germany. The Nazis were quite aware of the acquisitive nature of the  people. The genius of this book uses the acquisitive instints of the  people, instilling in them a desire for a complete collection and infusing  them with a benign, fatherly portrait of their fuhrer! What a masterstroke!  It is said that most German language copies were destroyed by their owners  after the war in an attempt to appear to have been apolitical. Fortunately,  some copies were saved thus allowing this fabulous reproduction to be  available to the public today. This book should serve as a cautionary tale  of the power of propaganda. Even those of us who live in relatively free  countries and are jaded by a daily barrage of political and commercial  propaganda are susceptible to a well-designed and well-orchestrated  propaganda campaign.	2000-07-05
US	51228286	R6A92J0VKQ070	1857821769	183809002	The Great Betrayal: The Memoirs of Ian Douglas Smith	Books	4	51	57	N	N	A Defeat For Mankind	As a child of 10 I was thrilled by Ian Smith and his brave defiance of a perfidious, corrupt and flaccid British Government.UDI to me was like our own Declaration of Independence.The Great Betrayal gives a blow-by-blow  account of the forces which shaped the politics of Rhodesia, the events  leading to UDI and subsequent events which led to majority rule.Tales of  duplicity will shock but not surprise as we are all now aware of the  calibre of the men and women who shape this tale. Perhaps the greatest  disappointment is to learn of the inaction of Margaret Thatcher whom I  greatly admire. My opinions of a lot of people were either confirmed or  lowered after reading this book. Smith has been accused of racism but  should more properly be described as paternalistic. Mugabe is the real  racist.Smith goes out of his way to naively portray men like Henry  Kissinger, Jimmy Carter and Andrew Young as well-meaning ambassadors of  peace. In reality, these men saw Rhodesia only as a pawn which was  disposable in the great game with the Communist menace. What they and their  successors have foisted upon the Zimbabwean people is as great as any crime  perpetrated by Saddam Hussein or Slobo Milosevic. The difference is that we  went to war for the latter so that refugees could return home yet most of  the so-called free world won't even allow Zimbabwe refugees a haven. Smith  is not entirely blameless in that he allows himself to be taken in time  after time by the blandishments of those who had proven themselves  dishonourable, dissembling hypocrites. The history is gripping, but Smith's  style is sometimes tedious. He most certainly overuses the words  &quot;sadly&quot; and &quot;regrettably&quot;.The lesson in this is that  local problems should be solved locally. Though Rhodesia's neighbors were  egging on Mugabe's murderous guerillas, the Rhodesian Army could have  smashed them all if given free rein to do so. Only if the Russians became  directly involved should the Westhave meddled. One can only wonder how  prosperous Zimbabwe might be today had Smith and the Chiefs been permitted  to hammer out a meaningful transitional agreement. In view of the current  desperate situation,by allowing the Mugabe dictatorship to take root, the  Western Powers delivered a defeat for civilization and for mankind.	2000-05-31
US	51228286	R2C7CWJAHIYT10	0802713491	367419940	The Basque History of the World	Books	4	52	59	N	N	Not a sheepish people.	If you don't mind a little historical romanticism a la Michener, then you will probably greatly enjoy this fine introduction to the Basque people. I frequently travel to Northern Nevada where I've met many Basques and eaten at most, if not all of the Basque restaurants there. Yet when I rave about these places at home, a blank look appears on most faces followed by the question &quot;What is a Basque?&quot; Kurlansky's book goes a long way toward answering that question and shows how the Basque, despite not having a formal country, has been able to hold on to language and culture and to have an important influence on the development of the Americas from Argentina to our American West. Intertwined in his easy to read history are all sorts of fascinating tidbits about this little understood people. I only wish that there was more about the Basques in America because it is they who have given the most flavor to the western Great Basin. After reading this book, you will surely want to know more. If you can't make it to Euskadi, check out the Basque Festival in Elko or go by J and T's in Gardnerville and ask Marie to sell you a &quot;Nevada, so many sheep, so little time&quot; bumper sticker and then enjoy a Basque feast.	2000-03-12
