US	51231665	R2B3L0WN159IMU	0007156588	788185902	Evening in the Palace of Reason	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Engrossing history behind a fateful meeting of minds	Any music student who has studied the life of Johann Sebastian Bach knows the basic tale of how the Musical Offering was created--how Bach traveled to the court of Frederick the Great of Prussia in 1747, how he tried the newfangled Silbermann pianofortes, how the monarch gave him a theme on which to improvise, and how Bach after his return home used the theme as a basis for one of his most intricate collections of contrapuntal compositions.<br /><br />In this well-crafted and smoothly written popular history, James Gaines fleshes out the personages involved, contrasting the eventful, troubled life of Frederick with Bach's workaday existence as music director of St. Thomas' School in Leipzig. Gaines portrays the meeting of these two men as a symbolic collision between the rising ideas of the Enlightenment and the last gasp of the old Lutheran faith and high Baroque musical language. Though there is little original research, and some necessary speculation about states of minds of people who left scanty personal records (including Bach himself), Gaines by and large succeeds not only at bringing history to life, but also in elucidating, in a clear and non-technical manner, the greatness of Bach's music. He has written a book  that appeals to music lovers and history buffs alike.	2005-08-14
US	51231665	R3FAQXJVR9771	0767914309	333747681	Our Fathers: The Secret Life of the Catholic Church in an Age of Scandal	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Difficult to read, impossible to put down	Most of us non-Catholics followed the breaking story of the sex-abuse scandal within the Catholic church that rocked the nation a few years ago in news reports that originated from the Boston Globe and spread throughout the nation. David France's book brings the fascinating, horrifying tale together in this volume whose chronology spans half a century. France, a senior editor for Newsweek magazine, has combined original reporting with a wealth of sources to paint a picture of a deeply afflicted institution that seems incapable of healing itself. The individual tales of predatory priests unpunished and the young men and women whose lives they destroyed are difficult enough to read; even more appalling is the systematic defensive reaction of church superiors, who shuffled offending priests from parish to parish, sent them to inadequate treatment facilities, and never reported their criminal offenses to secular authorities. Then, when the scandal broke and lawsuits began pouring in, their defense was to stonewall and obfuscate at every possible opportunity.<br /><br />France juggles a large cast of heroes and villains with a sure hand, though his quasi-cinematic technique of cutting back and forth between different stories occasionally makes the narrative too fragmented. His only serious failing is that, by keeping himself consistently in the background, he does not tie the entire tale together, so that the reader is left wondering what, if anything, has come of this whole sorry saga. One would guess that the death of John Paul II and the ascendancy of Cardinal Ratzinger to pope, both of whom come off in the book as insensitive to the crisis, bodes ill for any meaningful reform within the church for years to come.	2005-08-14
US	51231665	R1NU3H3KYYI9A1	0525248323	667140388	The Salt Point	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Slender, languid tale of souls adrift	In Poughkeepsie, New York, three people, Anatole, a gay hairdresser rejected by his family; Lydia, a college dropout who has moved back in with her mother; and Chris, a bisexual alternative music store owner loved by both of the other two, maintain an uneasy friendship. This fragile equilibrium is disrupted by the entry of Leigh, a teenager who is as reticent in his affections and emotions as Chris, but even more desirable. Author Paul Russell, whose \\"Coming Storm\\" I really liked, has a gift for relating the past with the present, and for evoking both the numbness and pain of souls adrift. Here, though, in contrast to \\"Storm,\\" there is no progression or payoff--though there are crises, the characters come to no particular new insight or revelations by the end. In addition, Leigh's thoughts and words seem far too mature and artful for a supposed teenager--no such person could ever have existed except in Russell's imagination. Overall, then, there are pleasures to be had in \\"The Salt Point\\" from the author's sheer skill at writing, but an emptiness at the core that leaves the reader ultimately unsatisfied.	2005-08-09
US	51231665	R1OE2N39BBI2DW	1580086349	906192873	People I Sleep With	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming, touching book of photographs	Jill Fineberg, a successful professional photographer recently retired to New Mexico, assembled this collection of portraits that illustrate the unique bond people can have with the animals that share their lives. Not all of the subjects by any means are actually asleep with their pets (I don't really see how one could sleep with a gecko or scorpion anyway) but many of the shots display a no less remarkable level of intimacy and trust, for example the dust jacket illustration of a man balancing bareback on his horse, or the couple posing with their lion and tiger. The pictures are followed by the frequently touching stories of their subjects and an afterword about the proven health benefits of having animals around. Fineberg shows us that in reaching out to creatures not like ourselves we can only become more human. The only regret one can feel perusing this charming collection is that the book as a whole could not have been larger, to present the frequently beautiful photos in more detail.	2005-07-17
US	51231665	R37X0WVAB22TBX	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Epic novel of a beautiful, terrible land	By now it's very difficult to add anything new to the chorus of praise for Mistry's wonderful book. Still, I think it's worth noting the author's impressive ability to paint a convincing portrait of an entire era and society in both broad and fine brushstrokes--broad when he describes in calm paragraphs the modernization and disruption of a tranquil rural society; fine when he zeroes in on the telling small incident, a fleeting kindness or thoughtless cruelty from a stranger. The four lives that form the foreground plot, those of Dina, a struggling widow, Maneck, a young student, and Ishvar and Om, uncle and nephew, two tailors fleeing the caste violence of their native village, become windows on the madness of urban India in the 1970s, where the unnamed Prime Minister has just declared a dictatorial \\"state of Emergency\\" to avoid being forced from office. Circumstances force the unwilling Dina to take the other three into her cramped apartment, and for a brief time, a bond of affection develops between them, a fragile happiness that continually threatens to be extinguished amid the continued pressures of existence.<br /><br />Mistry's narrative control is especially impressive when he recounts the histories of these four disparate souls; he can move in an instant from recounting the shocking horror of torture and murder, to the tenderness of young love, to the grotesque comedy of trying to survive in an urban slum. The profusion of memorable supporting characters that populates these pages, from the insufferable pomposity of Dina's overbearing older brother to the tragicomic Shankar, a legless beggar, also remind the reader of Dickens, as do the occasional dramatic excesses and implausible coincidences. Nevertheless, the world Mistry evokes, a unforgettably vivid portrait of a  society that survives almost despite itself, will remain with the reader long after he or she finishes reading \\"A Fine Balance.\\"	2005-06-29
US	51231665	R3I00525X9JX41	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	3	41	42	N	N	Tale of a faraway land and time	Author Daniel Mason's debut novel tells the tale of Edgar Drake, an English piano tuner who specializes in working with &Eacute;rards, upscale French instruments. One day out of the blue Drake receives a mysterious summons to tune an &Eacute;rard belonging to Anthony Carroll, a British Army surgeon stationed in an unstable region of colonial Burma, and off he goes.<br /><br />Mason has done his research--the descriptions of a lost, exotic land and its people are poetically evocative and cry out for visual realization (David Lean, where are you when we need you?). He also demonstrates a considerable knowledge of the workings of the British Army, colonial Burmese history and culture, and piano technology. All of this background, as fascinating as it is, frankly overwhelms the slow-paced, slender plot, which takes more than one hundred pages to bring Drake and the mysterious Dr. Carroll together. Along the way the hero meets the obligatory exotic heroine, in this case a beautiful and educated servant of Carroll's named Khin Myo, but the affair remains tastefully chaste. If one hangs with \\"The Piano Tuner\\" there is a surprise twist and an unexpected, tragic denouement that grip the reader at the eleventh hour; but the time and number of words it takes to get there suggests Mason, as beautiful and atmospheric as his writing can be, needs to work more on his sense of pacing and proportion.	2005-06-22
US	51231665	RSO47XOED3KYG	1551521806	682256592	Song of the Loon (Little Sister's Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Reissue of a milestone in gay literature	Richard Amory's legendary novel of a gay Arcadia in the Pacific Northwest captured the hearts and minds, as well as other body parts, of gay readers from its first publication in the 1960s. It is back in a deluxe edition with an extensive preface by Michael Bronski, providing historical and literary context, as well as reprints of interviews with the author that deal with such topics as his difficulties with publishers and his disgust at the liberties taken by the 1970 film version of the novel.<br /><br />Is \\"Song of the Loon\\" worth all the fuss? Although I'd heard a lot about the novel over the years this was my first actual reading. In some ways Amory's work is not much different from a heterosexual romance novel. It is set in a nineteenth-century wilderness that never existed, with stalwart white heroes, and Indians (not Native Americans) who are models of the \\"noble savage.\\"  Everyone is handsome of face, muscular of body and enormous of endowment. The stately, grammatically elaborate fashion in which the characters speak (quite frequently they break into poetry, giving Amory's work an odd kinship with, of all people, Tolkien) further increases the distance from any reality. The frequent sexual encounters are similarly recounted in a strange mix of clinical realism and elaborate metaphor.<br /><br />Thus, the cynical reader may be tempted to dismiss \\"Song of the Loon\\" as a dated period piece. However, this coming-of-age story about Ephraim MacIver, a man fleeing a cruel and manipulative lover, who meets sundry hunky, horny native men on a river journey before finding true love with Cyrus Wheelwright, a trapper, can still exert its unique spell if one accepts it for what it is: a portrait of an entirely closed, Utopian system, in which women, guilt, homophobia and sexually transmitted diseases do not exist (though an unfortunate, probably unconscious racism does--despite his numerous satisfying encounters with various Indians, it is impossible not to notice that MacIver in the end chooses a fellow white man as his partner) . In such a universe these unimpeachably masculine, perpetually cruising men can kiss, speak freely of love and recite poetry to each other, while gravely discussing issues of monogamy and fidelity. The few villains are men who are unwilling to admit their desires for other men, or whose desires are twisted by self-hatred. They are dispatched with ease, converted, not killed--what little violence there is in \\"Song of the Loon\\" takes place in hallucinatory visions, not reality. In a present-day America where violence against GLBT citizens and legislated homophobia seem to be on the ascendancy, Amory's vision of a peaceable gay world is extraordinarily moving. I started this book prepared to dismiss it, but ended up falling under the author's spell.<br /><br />Incidentally, the end of \\"Loon\\" leaves Ephraim's and Cyrus' relationship in a somewhat ambiguous state: may readers expect reissues of the two sequels Amory wrote, I hope?end chooses a fellow white man as his partner) . In such a universe these unimpeachably masculine, perpetually cruising men can kiss, speak freely of love and recite poetry to each other, while gravely discussing issues of monogamy and fidelity. The few villains are men who are unwilling to admit their desires for other men, or whose desires are twisted by self-hatred. They are dispatched with ease, converted, not killed--what little violence there is in \\"Song of the Loon\\" takes place in hallucinatory visions, not reality. In a present-day America where violence against GLBT citizens and legislated homophobia seem to be on the ascendancy, Amory's vision of a peaceable gay world is extraordinarily moving. I started this book prepared to dismiss it, but ended up falling under the author's spell.    Incidentally, the end of \\"Loon\\" leaves Ephraim's and Cyrus' relationship in a somewhat ambiguous state: may readers expect reissues of the two sequels Amory wrote, I hope?	2005-06-14
US	51231665	R30GW6IQVEQZR7	006054581X	443561547	The Bradbury Chronicles: The Life of Ray Bradbury	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	Detailed and fascinating, though adulatory, biography	Ray Weller's biography of Ray Bradbury, the prolific author of such seminal works of sci-fi and fantasy as The Martian Chronicles, The Illustrated Man and Something Wicked This Way Comes, grew out of an article he wrote in observance of Bradbury's 80th birthday year for Chicago Tribune magazine. In a disarming preface Weller recounts his meeting and immediate rapport with the author and his wife, and admits to being an unabashed fan. This is most apparent in Weller's reticence about the author's private life, in particular his longlasting but nevertheless troubled marriage. Nor is he critically evaluative of Bradbury's voluminous output, preferring to leave that to literary scholars. That still leaves a lot of worthwhile writing about a boy who grew up in small-town Illinois in frequent near-poverty and who never went to college. Bradbury's simple tastes and disdain for technology (he refused to fly in an airplane or use a computer for most of his life) seem at odds with his literary visions; neverthess, his gifts, ambition and discipline (for most of his life Bradbury has produced at least one short story every week) have led him to the place he occupies today as one of America's most well-known authors, credited by many other writers as a major influence on their work. The author's story has enough interest on its own that it works best when Weller steps back and simply tells it, particularly his frequently troubled relationships with luminaries in film and television such as John Huston (for whom Bradbury penned his most successful screenplay, \\"Moby Dick\\") and Rod Serling, whose \\"Twilight Zone\\" series frequently paid homage to, and possibly plagiarized, Bradbury's ideas while rejecting the author's own teleplays. When Weller attempts something more his own writing can be embarassingly naive and gushy: \\"Ray's speech...was fifteen minutes of love, joy and inspiration. That night, Ray Bradbury jumped off the cliff and built his wings on the way down.\\" Such passages are happily few and far between in this by and large worthwhile book for Bradbury's many admirers.are happily few and far between in this by and large worthwhile book for Bradbury's many admirers.	2005-06-14
US	51231665	R3C1P7BTLQQVO8	030676265X	780280955	Interpreting Mozart On The Keyboard (Da Capo Press Music Reprint Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First-rate guide to Classical performance style	Written for the performing pianist, Paul and Eva Badura-Skoda's guide to Mozart's musical style and how pianists can recreate it on today's very different keyboard instruments remains a model of its kind, a half-century after its original German-language publication. Translated into very readable English by Leo Black, the book is divided by topic area, with chapters dealing first with broad questions of sound, tempo and articulation succeeded by more specific discussions of ornamentation, editions, and technique. The authors do a tremendous service to the modern musician by distilling the essence of many contemporary treatises on performance practice, and prove surprisingly non-dogmatic--at a few points they even suggest altering Mozart's original notes to better suggest his original sound concepts. Among other valuable features are facsimile and print reproductions of unpublished original cadenzas to various piano concertos by Mozart, suggested cadenzas by the authors, and detailed interpretive discussions on three of the major piano concertos, K. 466 in D minor, K. 488 in A major, and K. 491 in C minor. The influence of the Badura-Skodas' pioneering work is apparent in the increasing popularity and proliferation of Mozart recordings on historical instruments, but their book is addressed to all pianists and musicians who care about Mozart. It is a positive scandal that this wonderful volume is not currently available in print.	2005-06-09
US	51231665	RK53WYTJ864EX	014030942X	213846669	The Doll's House	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Exquisite children's classic	Rumer Godden, the author of those absorbing novels about nuns of yesteryear, \\"Black Narcissus\\" and \\"In This House of Brede,\\" both successfully filmed with Deborah Kerr and Diana Rigg respectively, tries her hand here at a book for younger readers. This is the tale of a doll \\"family,\\" not related by biology but the simple fate of being thrown together. Although there are nominal mother and father dolls, the real head of the household is Tottie, a wooden farthing doll, wise beyond her childish appearance. The dolls' relative happiness and the way it is threatened by the appearance of Marchpane, an expensive, arrogant and, as it turns out, really malevolent interloper, makes for surprisingly gripping drama. Indeed, the tale of Marchpane's machinations and the tragic climax of the story may be too intense for younger or more sensitive children, for whom this book needs to be introduced with care. For the rest of them, and for adults who simply like a good story, \\"The Dolls' House\\" still exerts its considerable spell. Tasha Tudor's illustrations are a notable contribution as well.	2005-06-09
US	51231665	R26428N03R2BKL	0805076123	579116737	The Secret Life of the Lonely Doll: The Search for Dare Wright	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	A disquieting portrait	Author Jean Nathan's memory of one of Dare Wright's most famous children's books, The Lonely Doll, sent her on a quest for the author that led her to an indigents' hospital on Roosevelt Island, New York and this biography, which is as much about Wright's talented, dysfunctional family as Wright herself.<br /><br />Springing from the classic background of a handsome but weak-willed, ne'er-do-well and alcoholic father, paired to an ambitious, talented and frustrated mother, Wright was fated to lead an abnormal life. Indeed, she proved unable to relate to men in any way approaching normal, her intense, almost incestuous relationship with her handsome brother Blaine (from whom she was forcibly separated by her mother when a toddler; they were reunited as adults) balanced by her oddly sexless relationship and half-hearted, eventually broken engagement to Philip Sandeman, an RAF flyer and Blaine's WWI buddy.  Nevertheless, her beauty and artistic talents, inherited from her mother, a successful portrait painter, gained her a career as a fashion model, photographer, and ultimately author and photographic illustrator of classic children's books. But constantly hovering over Wright's life was the intimidating, smothering figure of Edith, her mother, who alternately neglected and fawned over her daughter, ultimately making her so emotionally dependent that her death sent Wright into an emotional tailspin from which she never recovered.<br /><br />Wright's story is thus the stuff of fine Gothic melodrama and would make an absorbing Lifetime movie. While it is true that some of the plot elements and motifs that run through the \\"Lonely Doll\\" books and \\"Lona: A Fairy Tale\\" (still sadly out of print) are more understandable in light of her existence, I'm not sure I gained much else from reading about this life. There is a uncomfortably voyeuristic element to examining these frequently glamorous but emotionally warped people that even Nathan's tasteful prose and obvious sympathy for her subject can't quite overcome. Ultimately, as with many other artists whose ability to create their own worlds exceeded their ability to cope with the real one, it is a more appropriate homage to the memory of Dare Wright to enjoy and treasure her work.hy for her subject can't quite overcome. Ultimately, as with many other artists whose ability to create their own worlds exceeded their ability to cope with the real one, it is a more appropriate homage to the memory of Dare Wright to enjoy and treasure her work.	2005-06-09
US	51231665	R2T8CCCQDAL7MY	0486265439	648172072	Men, Women and Pianos: A Social History (Dover Books on Music)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An entertaining, witty and profound chronicle	Arthur Loesser, pianist, composer and longtime faculty member at the Cleveland Institute of Music, was also a historian and writer of talent, as evidenced by this \\"social history\\" he penned in the 1950s.<br /><br />\\"Men, Women and Pianos\\" is many things. It is partly a history of the instrument itself: Loesser shows how the desire of musicians for a keyboard instrument more versatile and/or powerful than the existing clavichord, harpsichord and organ led makers in several countries more or less simultaneously to invent the basic action of the piano at the turn of the eighteenth century. It is partly, of course, a history of great pianists and composers and their particular regards and attitudes toward this newfangled contraption. It is partly a history of instrument makers and their innovations, from Bartolomeo Cristofori, who is widely credited with the actual invention of the \\"pianoforte,\\" to the Steinways, whose instruments still set the standard in piano-making today. Perhaps most important, however, it is a chronicle of the instrument and its relationship to everyday people and society, at times amusing, at times sobering. Along the way Loesser examines questions that may never have occurred to other historians before him, such as how ladies played four-hand music in their enormous hoop-skirts, or how much of the appeal of a third-rate salon piece of the early 1900s called \\"A Maiden's Prayer,\\" still in print, may have emanated from its title.<br /><br />Summarizing Loesser's work can give but a faint idea of his wide-ranging interests, or the dry humor of his writing. This is a book that appeals even to the non-musician, but which should be required reading for musicians. It ends on a downbeat note in 1954, with piano sales declining in the face of increased competition from electric gadgets such as television and the phonograph. One wonders what Loesser would think of the scene today, with digital technology enabling musical reproduction at speeds and with an ease he never could have imagined. There is a whole other book to be written about what has happened to the keyboard and home music-making since 1954, when Loesser's chronicle ends: one only hopes that whoever finally writes it has a fraction of his erudition, wit, and love of music.uld have imagined. There is a whole other book to be written about what has happened to the keyboard and home music-making since 1954, when Loesser's chronicle ends: one only hopes that whoever finally writes it has a fraction of his erudition, wit, and love of music.	2005-06-09
US	51231665	R1N5PSKGTMD4S7	0670804827	723706431	Prima Donna : A History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Entertaining, at times insightful history	There have been countless books written about the specialized musician known as the opera singer, and quite a few about female opera singers in particular; still, Rupert Christiansen's effort from the 1980s holds up well. As is logical, his discussion is basically chronological, starting with the rise of the female singer in the later Baroque period (as the previously dominant castrati waned in favor), proceeding through the heyday of the adored prima donna in the nineteenth century and concluding with a look at the scene in modern times (the book now, of course, is dated, stopping with the 1970s). Christiansen's chapters, however, are not only devoted to differing vocal types and their evolution (the coloratura \\"nightingale,\\" the Wagnerian singer), but also different national schools and influential geographic centers, such as New York and Vienna. These shifting foci lend the book additional perspectives and interest, though occasionally the organization necessitates some backtracking as far as pure chronology is concerned. In a fairly compact volume overall only a few individual singers can be discussed in any great detail, and Christiansen's zeal for summarizing leads him to make some questionable assertions; lumping Callas, Sutherland and Horne together as singers with \\"enormous\\" voices, for example. Still, he has a definite gift for sketching complete musical personalities in relatively few words that makes this volume a consistently enjoyable and informative read. Incidentally, it is worth seeking out the Viking hardback, as the photographs included are different, more numerous and interesting than in my Penguin paperback reprint.	2005-06-05
US	51231665	R32ULAOD9FE397	B0007E4PD2	616589831	Mozart and his Piano Concertos	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Classic descriptive musical guidebook	(...)<br /><br />The wonderfully named Cuthbert Morton Girdlestone first published this guide in 1948. It has been frequently re-issued, also under the title Mozart's Piano Concertos, and gone through several editions, though all versions I have seen are basically identical.<br /><br /> At the time it first appeared Mozart's piano concertos were not as widely known and performed as they are today (no complete recordings of the entire canon were available, for example), so if Girdlestone appears to be making a special plea for their recognition, he had ample reason. With several volumes of trenchant analysis of the Viennese Classical composers and their output now available by such luminaries as Charles Rosen, Girdlestone's work may now seem old-fashioned to the point of raising smiles, an impression only reinforced by the handwritten musical examples (not very well coordinated with the text, incidentally). It is amusing to read the Concerto in B-flat major K. 450 described as \\"a well-bred gentleman,\\" and such examples of what might be called musical anthropomorphism crop up frequently. Girdlestone was not a trained musical theorist and when he tries to talk of technical matters such as harmony or key centers he is fuzzy and at times downright wrong, no small matter with a master of tonal harmony and musical form. He also denigrates the musical worth of the early concertos in what seems an unnecessarily harsh manner, and his insistence that a benchmark of quality for a piano concerto be \\"collaboration\\" between the solo instrument and orchestra, by which he seems to mean dialogue and contrapuntal combination, is dogmatic as well. By his standards, for example, the so-called \\"Coronation\\" Concerto, K. 537, is an inferior work; but Rosen and others have pointed out how its compositional techniques anticipate those of Beethoven and subsequent early Romantic composers of piano concertos.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Girdlestone's passion for Mozart's music, and his recognition that its charm and grace does not preclude deep and profound emotion, override his frequently flawed analysis, drawing the sympathetic reader in. It is hard not to agree with, or be moved by his statement that the piano concertos are a medium by which \\"we penetrate... into the inner sanctuary where the harassed and overworked man [Mozart] found afresh the radiant life which never ceased to spring up within him.\\" In addition, his placing of the piano concertos within the context of Mozart's entire output is interesting and frequently provides valuable insight into the composer's general aesthetic. When my first copy of this book finally fell apart I searched for another copy to replace it, and found it here on Amazon. I recommend that all musicians and music lovers acquaint themselves with this pioneering, loving musical guide.ce does not preclude deep and profound emotion, override his frequently flawed analysis, drawing the sympathetic reader in. It is hard not to agree with, or be moved by his statement that the piano concertos are a medium by which \\"we penetrate... into the inner sanctuary where the harassed and overworked man [Mozart] found afresh the radiant life which never ceased to spring up within him.\\" In addition, his placing of the piano concertos within the context of Mozart's entire output is interesting and frequently provides valuable insight into the composer's general aesthetic. When my first copy of this book finally fell apart I searched for another copy to replace it, and found it here on Amazon. I recommend that all musicians and music lovers acquaint themselves with this pioneering, loving musical guide.	2005-06-05
US	51231665	R76U9QCQ8N3CB	0304300438	343358295	Mozart's piano concertos	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Venerable descriptive musical guide	The wonderfully named Cuthbert Girdlestone first published this guide in 1948. It has been frequently re-issued, also under the title Mozart and His Piano Concertos. At the time it first appeared Mozart's piano concertos were not as widely known and performed as they are today (no complete recordings of the entire canon were available, for example), so if Girdlestone appears to be making a special plea for their recognition, he had ample reason. With several volumes of trenchant analysis of the Viennese Classical composers and their output now available by such luminaries as Charles Rosen, Girdlestone's work may now seem old-fashioned to the point of raising smiles: it is amusing to read the Concerto in B-flat major K. 450 described as \\"a well-bred gentleman,\\" and such examples of what might be called musical anthropomorphism crop up frequently in the text. Girdlestone was not a trained musical theorist and when he tries to talk of technical matters such as harmony or key centers he is fuzzy and at times downright wrong, no small matter with a master of tonal harmony and musical form. He also denigrates the musical worth of the early concertos in what seems an unnecessarily harsh manner, and his insistence that a benchmark of quality for a piano concerto be \\"collaboration\\" between the solo instrument and orchestra, by which he seems to mean dialogue and contrapuntal combination, is dogmatic as well. By his standards, for example, the so-called \\"Coronation\\" Concerto, K. 537, is an inferior work; but Rosen and others have pointed out how its compositional techniques anticipate those of Beethoven and subsequent early Romantic composers of piano concertos.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Girdlestone's passion for Mozart's music, and his recognition that its charm and grace does not preclude deep and profound emotion, override his frequently flawed analysis, drawing the sympathetic reader in. It is hard not to agree with, or be moved by his statement that the piano concertos are a medium by which \\"we penetrate... into the inner sanctuary where the harassed and overworked man [Mozart] found afresh the radiant life which never ceased to spring up within him.\\" In addition, his placing of the piano concertos within the context of Mozart's entire output is interesting and frequently provides valuable insight into the composer's general aesthetic. When my first copy of this book finally fell apart I searched for another copy to replace it, and found it here on Amazon. I recommend that all musicians and music lovers acquaint themselves with this pioneering, loving musical guide.ium by which \\"we penetrate... into the inner sanctuary where the harassed and overworked man [Mozart] found afresh the radiant life which never ceased to spring up within him.\\" In addition, his placing of the piano concertos within the context of Mozart's entire output is interesting and frequently provides valuable insight into the composer's general aesthetic. When my first copy of this book finally fell apart I searched for another copy to replace it, and found it here on Amazon. I recommend that all musicians and music lovers acquaint themselves with this pioneering, loving musical guide.	2005-06-05
US	51231665	R1M9L6ON3I3129	0670033510	63045000	The Inner Voice: The Making of a Singer	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	Part memoir, part career guide, part soapbox	Renee Fleming sang a memorable Countess in The Marriage of Figaro with the Houston Grand Opera in 1990. I was there and can attest that the hype has a solid basis in fact--in her book she mentions the very place in the score, the pianissimo reprise in her big aria, \\"Dove sono,\\" that convinced me and my operagoing companion that here was a future star. Since then she has fulfilled all predictions and risen to become the reigning operatic soprano of the day.<br /><br />Fleming refers more than once to herself in \\"The Inner Voice\\" as a good student who always did what she was told. It seems perhaps that someone told her that divas of her stature ought to write a book, and so she has dutifully produced this volume (without a ghostwriter, to her credit). Since it's a bit early for the singer to look back, being in her vocal and career prime, there's not a great deal of personal detail beyond her childhood and student days--full of interest, incidentally, particularly recountings of  meetings with such greats as Leontyne Price and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf--and no backstage gossip or tell-all bitchery; she's just not that kind of person. Instead Fleming offers detailed advice about vocal and career matters based on her own experience, and shows herself willing to admit to failures, hesitations and uncertainties along the way. The solid training she received during her formative years is evident in her detailed grasp of vocal technique, impressive though apt to lose a non-singer. One cannot help but wonder whether this propensity for self-analysis might be responsible for the occasional accusations of over-interpretation that have been leveled at her performances; but, though opera queens will be disappointed at the lack of dish in \\"The Inner Voice,\\" other fans and musicians will find much to ponder and enjoy.	2005-05-21
US	51231665	R12YJKP01LB3UF	0226467716	768676081	Moral Politics : How Liberals and Conservatives Think	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Makes a whole lot of sense	George Lakoff's recent \\"Don't Think of an Elephant\\" draws its main points from this earlier book, which explains in depth his theory that liberal and conservative political viewpoints in today's America stem from two radically opposed views of the ideal family. Lakoff is convincing when he quotes actual political writings and speeches to show how the family metaphor permeates political discourse. Until the very end of the book he confines himself to lucid explanations and applications of the two models, the \\"Strict Father\\" (conservative) and \\"Nurturant Parent\\" (liberal) paradigms. The last few chapters then turn into a hard-hitting indictment of the drawbacks of the former model, and an impassioned plea for all those who believe that the recent conservative ascendancy is steering America in the wrong direction to fight back--how? By first of all using the \\"Nurturant Parent\\" approach in raising their own children.<br /><br />More than any other book I've ever read about the current political scene in America, Lakoff clarifies why the conservative mentality can embrace apparently contradictory stances on such issues as abortion, capital punishment and gun control with such ease, and why liberalism has been more or less routed as a viable alternative up until now. His careful dissection of the failures of the \\"Strict Father\\" approach to family life and child-rearing exposes the falseness of the same approach to politics, and gives hope that the tide may yet be turned. This book won't convert any conservatives, or cause them to give up their ideas. But it may give people who wonder where simple decency and humanity have gone the key to begin taking back America.	2005-05-12
US	51231665	R1TUZ5RCSEQIB4	0743266390	640284860	The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln	Books	5	19	26	N	Y	Problematic but compelling	C.A. Tripp's valedictory study of Abraham Lincoln has raised predictable ire from self-styled patriots and right-wingers who recoil in horror at the idea that one of America's most beloved icons might have had lustful thoughts about other men and acted on them, specifically with Captain Derickson, a handsome military man and Lincoln's bodyguard; and Joshua Speed, with whom Lincoln shared a bed for no less than four years. In truth, the evidence Tripp presents, though often strong, is not irrefutable. In addition, the published text suffers from structural and editing problems due to the death of its author soon after the manuscript's completion. Tripp would undoubtedly have cleaned up some sentence fragments and other bits of untidy writing; he might also have reconsidered the somewhat haphazard construction of the book, which begins as more or less a chronological account of Lincoln's early life and abruptly switches to a series of almost self-contained essays concerning his relationships with various people, including his wife (a truly harrowing portrait) and other women, concluding with broader views at Lincoln's  attitudes toward sex and religion.<br /><br />However unsatisfying their arrangement, these chapters are full of interest that is not the least bit prurient--they paint a portrait of the man that is no less compelling for being not a bit like the marbelized figure most Americans carry in their mind from elementary school mythologizing. Indeed, considering the portrait that Tripp paints of a conflicted, frequently deeply depressed man, caught in a singularly loveless marriage to a harridan, with a fundamentally bleak view of life quite at odds with conventional Christian piety, Lincoln's indelible accomplishments as a statesman are all the more remarkable and moving. Whether or not he was gay in the modern sense ultimately becomes irrelevant--Lincoln in these pages emerges as a human being. All of the homophobic rantings of the book's detractors (including many of the reviewers below) cannot erase this singular achievement.<br /><br />I believe \\"The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln\\" will eventually take its place beside \\"The Homosexual Matrix\\" as one of the cornerstones of serious writing and research about alternative sexuality.of the reviewers below) cannot erase this singular achievement.     I believe \\"The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln\\" will eventually take its place beside \\"The Homosexual Matrix\\" as one of the cornerstones of serious writing and research about alternative sexuality.	2005-04-07
US	51231665	R33ZNB6Z5E1W5K	0674013255	786854947	What the Best College Teachers Do	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Idealistic, inspiring guide to teaching	Ken Bain currently directs the Center for Teaching Excellence at New York University, so he knows what he's talking about. His study of the best teachers and what they do took more than a decade to put together and resulted in several conclusions which are helpfully stated at the beginning of this book: the best teachers, not surprisingly, know their own fields extremely well and think long and hard about how to convey that knowledge. The best teachers don't just teach facts, they teach students how to think. The best teachers respect their students and assume everyone can learn, and they constantly assess and evaluate their own efforts as well as those of their students.<br /><br />It was enjoyable for me to peruse this volume and compare my own teaching to the models described therein: to nod in agreement when the they matched what I did, to think about improving or modifying my approaches when they did not. After finishing it I can't say I slavishly agree with all of Bain's conclusions or admonitions--I still believe that in my field a certain level of basic technical mastery is essential for further achievement. (And there's nothing wrong that I can see with requiring students to meet deadlines.) However, Bain's work has motivated me to strive to improve how I impart that mastery, and caused me to re-examine \\"truths\\" that I thought were self-evident. It's my guess that such soul-searching is what this volume was meant to evoke.<br /><br />I also suggest reading Patrick Allitt's \\"I'm the Teacher, You're the Student\\" for an interesting and rather different perspective on teaching in higher education.	2005-03-20
US	51231665	RZ4ZKN071COPR	0809325950	602741560	Teaching Approaches in Music Theory, Second Edition: An Overview of Pedagogical Philosophies	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Gets the job done	This is a book that does exactly what it sets out to do: it is a comprehensive look at how to teach the knotty subject of music theory, particularly the beginning stages, which the author rightly regards as most crucial. Rogers, who obviously brings a great deal of experience to bear on his topic, is not shy about expressing his opinions; though he does allow for different paths to reach the same goal, he is uncompromising about what he thinks must happen in the mind of a music theory student. Beginning with an overview of different philosophical and pedagogical approaches to the subject, Rogers then addresses teaching in more specific areas, fundamentals, counterpoint, analysis and ear training, concluding by returning to more general advice on teaching strategies and curriculum construction. The book is at times dry and, rather like in an actual music theory class, one may bridle at times at being crammed with so much information in so little space. But there is certainly a wealth of useful and thought-provoking information to be gleaned here.	2005-03-09
US	51231665	R169ACR1RNUSOA	0393302199	246771242	Sonata Forms (Revised Edition)	Books	5	58	61	N	Y	Typically valuable Rosen, despite structural problems	Rosen's book, now in a revised edition, is a follow-up to his classic \\"Classical Style,\\" and it helps to be acquainted with the earlier work, or at least to be somewhat accustomed to the author's elaborate and occasionally repetitive prose and his habit of illustrating the discussion with copious, lengthy musical examples. The early chapters explain the author's choice of the plural for the title and distinguish his view of the sonata structure as opposed to the single form dictated by nineteenth-century authorities such as Czerny. Particularly interesting, if not altogether coherent, is the attempt to relate the rise of use of sonata principles by composers to the rise in prestige of instrumental music.  A couple of chapters on sonata-form predecessors (aria, concerto, other works by early Italians such as Scarlatti and Sammartini) are succeeded by generally lucid discussions on motivic development  and the component parts of fully developed sonata form: exposition, development, recapitulation, and coda. The last part of the book examines how sonata structure has continued to influence and at times frustrate post-Classical composers.<br /><br />If one looks for it, there are brilliant analyses to be found throughout this book, often in unexpected places: a full-scale and fascinating dissection of the first movement of Mozart's great \\"Prague\\" Symphony in D major is hidden away in the middle of the \\"Motif and Function\\" chapter. Therein lies the major problem of this book for me, in that Rosen, ironically enough in a work about form, seems to have trouble ordering and presenting his ideas in a logical fashion. The chapter on concertos seems intended to illustrate pre-sonata principles, but contradicts its purpose with illustrations mainly from Mozart and his contemporaries.  Elsewhere, Rosen first cites minuet form as a sonata-form predecessor but then clouds the issue by discussing classical minuets in a later chapter--the casual reader may miss the distinction, which he never states explicitly. In fact, some important overall points--that the turn toward the subdominant in many recapitulations is intended to balance the basic tonic-dominant polarity of the exposition, for example--are never stated by Rosen but left to be gleaned by the reader. He also fails to spend enough time, in my opinion, discussing the ways in which minor-key sonata movements differ from the prevalent major-key models. Still, with careful reading, following some of the examples with recordings, and perhaps a bit of reordering, a comprehensive picture does emerge of one of the most important currents in Western tonal music. I still have to recommend this book as the best available on this knotty subject.h he never states explicitly. In fact, some important overall points--that the turn toward the subdominant in many recapitulations is intended to balance the basic tonic-dominant polarity of the exposition, for example--are never stated by Rosen but left to be gleaned by the reader. He also fails to spend enough time, in my opinion, discussing the ways in which minor-key sonata movements differ from the prevalent major-key models. Still, with careful reading, following some of the examples with recordings, and perhaps a bit of reordering, a comprehensive picture does emerge of one of the most important currents in Western tonal music. I still have to recommend this book as the best available on this knotty subject.	2005-03-06
US	51231665	R2CJ02ILRXXBHY	0198166400	713909279	The Piano Quartet and Quintet: Style, Structure, and Scoring (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Companion volume to The Piano Trio	Basil Smallman's guide, which deals principally with chamber music scored for piano and either three or four other stringed instruments, is a successor volume to his earlier guide to the piano trio. The first, short chapter of the present volume traces the history of concerted chamber music with piano up through Mozart. Then, as in the companion volume, the successive chapters follow a mostly chronological path, with representative works examined at greater length. There is a useful discussion of scoring techniques, and how differing artistic aims by composers influence their choice of instrumentation and distribution of musical materials.<br /><br />It is a predictable and not unwelcome feature of the book that the major works by the great nineteenth-century composers, Brahms, Schumann and Dvorak among them, receive the most attention and analysis. As in Smallman's previous survey, one may take issue elsewhere with what is dwelt on and what is given but a passing glance. The author's decision to include music written for still larger combinations, as well as mixed ensembles of strings, winds and piano, inevitably means a more diffuse discussion than in the book on the piano trio, and the end in particular sees the author on the verge of rhetorically throwing up his hands and declaring the genre dead. Until then, however, there is much informative and enjoyable reading to be had. The only significant drawback is the relative paucity of extended musical examples: many of the individual analyses need numbered full scores in order to be fully digested.	2005-03-04
US	51231665	R2NC0LF6NQNG0U	6308446467	147448614	Mozart:Zaide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bargain recording of Mozart opera, with one weakness	\\"Zaide\\" [the title is not Mozart's, incidentally] was an opera begun by Mozart on spec, as it were. When the composer heard that the Emperor Joseph II was establishing a German opera company in Vienna he began setting this tale of lovers trapped in the harem, or seraglio, of a hostile Muslim sultan, much the same story that he later successfully set in his \\"Abduction from the Seraglio.\\" In fact, the libretto of \\"Zaide\\" even has a namesake with \\"Seraglio,\\" a hostile slave-handler named Osmin, though the earlier version lacks the marvelous comic musical characterization of the role in the later singspiel. Mozart's decision to set the more comic version of the same story caused him to abandon the earlier, serious setting altogether when it was almost complete. What survives today are ten arias, a few ensembles, and most interestingly, two interludes of melodrama, spoken dialogue with musical interjections and accompaniment, the only instance of this device in Mozart's stage music.<br /><br />Though the music as a whole lacks the focused characterizations of Mozart's most famous operas, it is stunningly beautiful--Zaide's aria \\"Ruhe sanft, mein holder Leben\\" has remained in the repertoire of high lyric sopranos as a oft-recorded concert number. On a recording, without the lost dialogue (save in the melodramas, which seem somewhat overlong out of their dramatic context), the beauty of the arias and ensemble seems enhanced. Paul Goodwin's Academy of Ancient Music, playing on historical instruments at modern pitch, gives a polished rendition that brings out the many lovely orchestral details in Mozart's score. When all of Mozart's music is heard at one sitting, Zaide's lover Gomatz actually has the lion's share. Hans Peter Blochwitz sings the role with fluidity and an easy vocal production throughout his range. Lynne Dawson as the title character is not up to this standard, her discomfort with the high tessitura and sustained lines of Zaide's music evident in her frequently strained singing. In particular, her rendition of \\"Ruhe sanft\\" will not supplant any of the many separate versions available of this lovely piece by such estimable singers as Kathleen Battle, Renee Fleming, or Irmgard Seefried. Nevertheless, with its other strengths, and at a price way below the other available complete recordings, this CD must be considered by all music lovers interested in a complete portrait of Mozart the opera composer.ed singing. In particular, her rendition of \\"Ruhe sanft\\" will not supplant any of the many separate versions available of this lovely piece by such estimable singers as Kathleen Battle, Renee Fleming, or Irmgard Seefried. Nevertheless, with its other strengths, and at a price way below the other available complete recordings, this CD must be considered by all music lovers interested in a complete portrait of Mozart the opera composer.	2005-02-14
US	51231665	R3PB2QDSN0IVV3	1555837468	640201034	Jacked: The Best of Jack Fritscher	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Is it just me?	It's with some trepidation that I dissent from the unanimous acclaim of the other reviewers of this book. Admittedly Jack Fritscher is a skilled author and reading his atmospheric prose is a pleasure in itself, though not a particularly erotic one. The stories though are polished and carefully constructed to the point that, for me, the life is squeezed out of them. All of the classic icons of male erotica are here but their impact is muted. I would recommend this book for reading pleasure, but not any other kind.	2005-02-02
US	51231665	RAP9JY7TE346D	0634038354	730248384	Billy Joel - Fantasies & Delusions: Music for Solo Piano, Op. 1-10	Books	3	8	14	N	N	At best, a curiosity	This album of Billy Joel's piano compositions reproduces in score the tracks contained on the CD album with the same title, where the selections are performed by Richard Joo. I have not heard the CD, so my review is based on perusing and reading through some of the music myself. Most of it is of significant technical difficulty, far too complex for amateurs who might have previously enjoyed playing through arrangements of Joel's popular hits. Richard Joo must be a competent pianist. It is not clear why he is credited as an \\"arranger\\" of many of the pieces.<br /><br />Judged purely as classical piano music, which publication in this form would seem to be asking the serious musician to do, the works in this volume are very much of a kind: predominantly lyrical and improvisatory in nature, and rambling and discursive in form. There are some striking melodic ideas, whose impact is almost always lessened by excessive repetition and unfocused development. One of the few compositions immune to these strictures is a short \\"Invention,\\" a charming Bachian pastiche that is only two pages long. This could well be given to advancing piano students as an alternative to the time-honored compositions by the Baroque master. Coincidentally or not, this is one of the few pieces where Joo is not given a co-writing or arranging credit. Otherwise, the music contained in this volume is at best of ephemeral value. My guess is that Joel's musical reputation will continue to prosper through his pop songs and Broadway musicals.	2005-01-31
US	51231665	R10B05R4M1LWTA	0521376203	68901450	Handel: Messiah (Cambridge Music Handbooks)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Concise guidebook to a musical masterpiece	My favorite book about Handel's iconic work remains Jens Peter Larsen's definitive study of 1957. However, getting through Larsen's painstakingly researched and densely written volume is a forbidding task for even a trained musician, let alone a casual music lover wanting to know more about the oratorio. This shorter guide by Donald Burrows offers a worthy alternative and supplement (though a fairly high degree of musical literacy is still presupposed). Burrows' portrait of Handel's librettist Charles Jennens and the uneasy relationship between Jennens and the composer brings both figures vividly to life, in part through frequently quoting primary source material. His chronology of Messiah's composition and early performances is both more concise and more interesting than Larsen's somewhat ponderous background text. On the other hand, for cogent, detailed analysis of each individual number, as well as in thorough dissections and balanced conclusions regarding Messiah's changing versions, Larsen comes out far ahead. I also do not agree with Burrows' contention in a separate essay that Handel's original text-settings, with their frequently faulty accentuation of the English language, must be kept at all costs. Still, in terms of packing quantities of useful, interesting information into a small space without sacrificing readability, this Cambridge Musical Handbook is a winner.	2004-12-31
US	51231665	R2N4FS7C5EFO25	0393306283	735283597	Handel's Messiah: Origins, Composition, Sources	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic scholarship on a classic work	Handel's Messiah is by now so familiar to concertgoers that it might seem as if there is not much to say about it. This classic monograph by Larsen triumphantly dispels that false notion. Besides penetrating analyses of the individual numbers of the oratorio, valuable enough in themselves, Larsen offers a concise history of Handelian oratorio, comparisons between differing versions of various numbers, and conclusions about which versions of Messiah are most \\"valid,\\" based on careful research of the available source material, everything from the manuscripts and copies themselves, to books of words, to pencilled annotations of singers' names on the margins of working scores. After all of this time, Larsen's towering achievement in musical scholarship as it relates to this single cornerstone of the repertoire has yet to be surpassed. I doubt it ever will be.	2004-12-29
US	51231665	R38C0OW93KECBZ	0385509723	605687751	The King and I:  The Uncensored Tale of Luciano Pavarotti's Rise to Fame by His Manager, Friend and Sometime Adversary	Books	4	11	18	N	N	Compulsively readable backstage memoir	Herbert Breslin, one of the most successful managers of classical artists, whose roster included Joan Sutherland and Alicia de Larrocha, among others, has produced this tell-all memoir about his most famous client, Luciano Pavarotti. Well, it's mostly about Pavarotti. Breslin also manages to include quite a bit about himself, his formative years, how he got started in the business of classical music management, his other famous clients, all quite interesting stuff. However, as the title indicates, the main course is the King of Tenors, and Breslin paints a frequently affectionate but ultimately unsparing portrait of a man whose ego and demands were as outsize as his body and vocal talent. Breslin takes his share of credit for a career that not only produced artistic triumphs such as Pavarotti's sensational Met performances with Sutherland and unexpected successes such as Mozart's Idomeneo, but also equally spectacular public disasters such as the Pav's ill-starred foray into Hollywood filmdom, \\"Yes, Giorgio.\\" Along the way there are many choice anecdotes about other luminaries of the operatic world such as Birgit Nilsson, Renata Scotto and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf that keep the reader turning the pages. Breslin's ego is clearly as outsize as Pavarotti's and why not? His list of clients who made major careers speaks for itself. The inclusion of snatches of interviews by people he mentions in the main text, giving their own perspective on events Breslin mentions, provides some balance. Most startling of these is a final word from Pavarotti, who appears to bear no grudge against Breslin, and who indeed looks back on their thirty-six year partnership with affection.<br /><br />It appears Pavarotti has given his final operatic performances (he returned to the Met for a last hurrah a year after the sensational cancellations Breslin describes), and a serious examination of his artistic and vocal accomplishments will no doubt be written sooner or later. In the meantime, Breslin's book will keep classical music aficionados mostly entertained, and occasionally horrified.lin's book will keep classical music aficionados mostly entertained, and occasionally horrified.	2004-11-13
US	51231665	RO7MHRCX9TY88	0812218876	956937220	I'm the Teacher, You're the Student: A Semester in the University Classroom	Books	4	23	26	N	Y	Enjoyable chronicle of life in the college classroom	From the pen of a senior professor of history at Emory University comes this entertaining and readable chronicle of a semester in a college classroom. Patrick Allitt's students in his introductory American history course are bright, well-to-do and in the upper echelon of college students today, which makes their frequent foibles all the more distressing. To anyone who teaches or who has taught at the university level, Allitt's descriptions of their frequently terrifying ignorance of basic American culture, let alone English grammar, will raise rueful and knowing smiles. To his credit, Allitt is willing to put himself in their shoes, describing his struggles with an introductory Spanish course which he took in Spain in painfully vivid detail. From this experience he professes to have gained some sympathy for the difficulties many of his students must encounter as first-time learners. Still, that doesn't prevent him from liberally quoting howlers from his weaker students' papers and exams, and describing incidents that do not put them in a particularly flattering light. Occasionally his unsparing depictions made this reader uncomfortable--how much prior consent did he obtain from his subjects, who frequently are made to look foolish, to say the least? The book also reflects the structure of the typical semester, in that as it approaches its end the writing is marred by seeming haste and skimped detail. Overall, though, this is a well-written and engrossing popular chronicle, though I doubt it will add anything to Allitt's scholarly reputation.	2004-10-16
US	51231665	R1OMEINEZTXT88	0195109120	726272248	Modal Counterpoint, Renaissance Style	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Comprehensive introduction to Renaissance-style counterpoint	Peter Schubert is on the faculty of McGill University. As a first-time teacher of species counterpoint I am impressed by this book's organization, clarity of explanation and vast quantity of practice exercises. For the sake of the beginner student fine nuances of style are skipped, especially in the early chapters, in favor of a thorough grounding in rules, divided into \\"hard\\" and \\"soft\\" categories. The former are regarded as unyielding benchmarks of correctness, while the latter have to do more with stylistic ease and euphony. The sheer quantity of rules may overwhelm some students; careful explanation by the instructor is necessary to avoid glazed-over eyes and discouragement. At least in my edition there is as yet no attempt to put some of the examples and exercises in audio form, as do many theory texts today. I also think answer keys for some of the shorter exercises would make this book even more useful, though of course such things tempt some students to peek.<br /><br />Still, the organization of the material and the obvious expertise of the author make this textbook a most impressive entry in the music theory teaching sweepstakes.	2004-09-13
US	51231665	RLVIFNMLFAN90	0816636214	377743519	Evening Crowd at Kirmsers: A Gay Life in the 1940s	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Spare, elegant memoir	Ricardo Brown's posthumously published memoir of gay life in 1940's St. Paul, MN is a series of sharply etched vignettes of the lives of gay men and women at a time when homosexuality was still \\"the love that dared not speak its name.\\" After acknowledging his homosexuality to his superior officer in the Navy, an act of almost unbelievable courage considering the time period, and receiving a dishonorable discharge, Brown returns to his home town and finds refuge amid a small group of habitues at Kirmser's, a seedy \\"queer bar\\" run by a German couple. The book is comprised of reminiscences about the lives of these pre-Stonewall gays and lesbians. Brown's gift for the telling anecdote and bringing people and places to life in a few well-chosen words is evident on every page. Paradoxically this results in the whole being less satisfying than it might be, as one wishes for more detail and context about these people. Still, for the modern-day reader, \\"Evening Crowd\\" is an fascinating window into the not-so-long-ago past.	2004-08-13
US	51231665	R16T92GYBRUKL6	1555837743	171601945	The Secret Lives of Married Men: Interviews With Gay Men Who Played It Straight	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some interest, little insight	David Leddick's volume of interviews with gay men who once were or are currently married to women promises a good deal more than it delivers. Organized by the age of interviewed subjects, starting with the oldest, the mostly short interviews are sometimes touching, sometimes titillating. After a very short while, however, monotony sets in, due to the sameness of the subjects (handsome, successful, professional, and with a very few exceptions, white) and the persistent lack of any real insight into the motivations of the men profiled. Credit must be given to Leddick for not attempting psychoanalysis for which he is obviously not qualified; but the lack of any compensating interest or other profundity means the final impression is quite similar to many of his collections of male nude photographs--polished, facile but hard to remember when one has closed the book.	2004-05-27
US	51231665	RAYW6RJX0MJOO	034544406X	83974024	The New Lovecraft Circle	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Uneven but plenty of chills for horror aficionados	The world that Howard Phillips Lovecraft created continues to exert its spell decades after his death. This collection brings together twenty-five tales by authors spinning their own variations and extrapolations of Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos, which postulates the existence of an ancient, evil race of beings outside the generally known dimensions of time and space that lurks in the shadows, constantly waiting and watching for its chance to reconquer the earth and destroy humanity.<br />It's a creepy thought, and the best tales in this collection are those that filter this paranoia in new and unexpected ways: &quot;The Horror on the Beach,&quot; by Alan Dean Foster, for example, transplants the monster to the sunny California coast. &quot;The Stone on the Island&quot; by Ramsey Campbell is a masterpiece of understatement, all the more terrifying for its low-key, economical prose. &quot;The Kiss of Bugg-Shash&quot; by Brian Lumley is more in the classic Lovecraftian vein of the disgusting, slimy, implacable enemy, but chilling for all of that. Less successful are entries that ape Lovecraft's over-the-top and frankly dated writing style, or that stick too closely to his original concepts and geographical settings. Nevertheless, as a whole this collection offers plenty of skin-crawling reading. Don't read it when you're alone, or during a power outage.	2004-05-17
US	51231665	R2KW9YQNP7Z3Y4	0300090706	817546953	Beethoven`s Piano Sonatas: A Short Companion	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	Not top-drawer Rosen, but a useful guide	Charles Rosen by now is one of the foremost writers on music, especially piano music, of the Classic and Romantic eras. His books _The Classical Style_ and _The Romantic Generation_ are classics of their kind.<br />Inevitably, given Rosen's prolific output and its specialization, there is a slight feeling of deja vu about this volume on Beethoven's sonatas for piano. Rosen is laboring under the shade of such great writers on Beethoven as Donald Tovey. Nevertheless, the book offers fresh perspectives and many stimulating new ideas in its opening section, which views the sonatas through general topics such as &quot;Phrasing&quot; and &quot;Tempo.&quot; The second section, consisting of commentaries on the individual works, more clearly apes Tovey and here, considered word for word, the older writer probably offers more detailed and practical insights for the serious piano student into the actual performance of these great works than Rosen. Nevertheless, this book is a valuable addition to any collection of writings on music.	2004-05-11
US	51231665	R39VT83O881FNO	0972966587	608261185	Seeds of Deception:  Exposing Industry and Government Lies About the Safety of the Genetically Engineered Foods You're Eating	Books	5	122	144	N	Y	A frightening and important read	Jeffrey Smith, the author of this book, is a plain-spoken but hardly elegant writer. He doesn't need to be; the facts he reports about GM (genetically modified) foods and the relentless efforts of Monsanto Corp. to get them into American and world markets need no dressing up in fancy prose. It's hard to decide which is scariest: the grave doubts about the safety of specific products such as the FlavrSavr tomato and StarLink corn; the myriad possibilities for unpredictable results to the environment and the general food supply, given the current scanty knowledge of genes, genetics and the possible consequences of unchecked modification of basic biological codes; or the systematic, epidemic failure of governmental agencies charged with protecting the health of the general public in the U.S. and Canada to act.<br />It would be easy to dismiss &quot;Seeds of Deception&quot; as a partisan rant against Republican governments and big business, but Smith is evenhanded in his indictments. According to him, Monsanto Corp. has engaged in a systematic campaign to pressure both Democratic and Republican administrations in the United States to allow GM foods to be marketed without proper safeguards and testing. What seems to have saved the world so far is the vigorous resistance of European and overseas markets to the entry of genetically modified food products that have not been properly tested, consquently making several highly promoted products uneconomical to produce. Nevertheless, modified genes have already &quot;escaped&quot; into the general food supply to an alarming degree.<br />In the final portion of the book Smith gives suggestions on how the reader can protect him/herself against unknowingly consuming GM foodstuffs, and also asks for contributions so that copies of his book can be sent to those in positions of power. I'm sending him a check.	2004-03-24
US	51231665	RHHCQ8FE660UB	1558535365	183173402	The Cop Cookbook: Arresting Recipes from the World's Favorite Cops, Good Guys, and Private Eyes	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A not uninteresting curiosity	Published in part as a fundraiser for the \\"National Peace Officers Memorial Service Fund,\\" which certainly seems a worthy cause, this volume purports to share the cooking secrets of those who keep us safe. It's a fairly extensive collection of recipes with cute names, some from actual police personnel, but most from actors who have played police personnel on TV and in films, and some of which actually are quite good (I tried making them). They are interspersed with black-and-white photos, again not so much of real cops (though there are a few famous ones, such as Buford Pusser, whose story was fictionalized in the \\"Walking Tall\\" films of the 1970s) as of TV and film actors playing police. Just as there are some good recipes, there are some fun memory-jogging photos. How else would I have remembered that Al Lewis (Grandpa on \\"The Munsters\\") also had a continuing role in that TV classic, \\"Car 54, Where Are You?\\" It's worth remembering the humble TV beginnings of such megastars as Michael Douglas (\\"The Streets of San Francisco\\").<br /><br />Thus, this volume is part rather utilitarian cookbook, part nostalgia trip for addicts of shoot-em-up TV shows and (mostly) B-movies. It was given to me as a gift. I don't think I would have bought it myself, but I have enjoyed it.	2004-03-19
US	51231665	RP2P62Z89WW00	0520236157	449680375	My Family Album: Thirty Years of Primate Photography	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	They're not like us, they're unique	Frans de Waal's collection of primate portraits covers various species of monkeys in many social situations. Long hours spent with his subjects means that Waal had their total trust when photographing them. Thus, his subjects have a natural, unforced manner that allows their true nature to shine through. Waal's accomplishment, in this occasionally hilarious, frequently touching, but always fascinating collection of photographs is that he transcends the notion that the value of primates lies in how much they are like humans. His texts and pictures reveal them not as inferior versions of homo sapiens, but simply as @what they are: intelligent, sensitive, highly socially evolved creatures. This is a beautiful and fascinating book.	2003-12-28
US	51231665	RO537GLNKQ9BY	0393317129	591633385	The Classical Style: Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven (Expanded Edition)	Books	5	60	64	N	N	Classic writing about Classical music	Charles Rosen by now has attained a place among musical analysts on a par with the likes of Tovey and Grout, though his style is very different from either of these luminaries. Taking the music of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven as the pinnacle of the musical style that developed in the late eighteenth-century, Rosen explains how around 1775 there was a decisive shift away from the High Baroque style of Bach and Handel, and why this new music was different. After his general introduction to the style most of the book explores different genres, symphony, opera, concerto and string quartet among them, to create a lucid and multi-faceted picture of how these three great composers approached and solved common musical and formal problems. The new edition adds a preface that addresses criticisms of the original book and an additional late chapter on Beethoven.<br />Rosen's writing, though it can be dense and repetitive, at its best is unmatched in its ability to relate analysis to what actually is heard by a listener. To this end, an ability to read and understand the copious and detailed musical examples is essential to fully grasping his points--this book is not for the casual amateur. But to those willing to do the work, The Classical Style remains as richly rewarding after three-plus decades as when it first appeared. As another reviewer has mentioned, it is a book one returns to again and again simply for the sheer pleasure of reading it.	2003-12-11
US	51231665	RYUGQT3FH7HF	0312292570	204438552	The Arena of Masculinity: Sports, Homosexuality, and the Meaning of Sex (Stonewall Inn Editions)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Earnest study of a hot topic	Brian Pronger's 1992 book still remains interesting today. For most of the first part Pronger constructs his thesis methodically and earnestly: that homosexuality is a subversion of the basic patriarchal structure of Western society, that mandates the power and domination of men over women. Conventional masculine sports represents a heightening of patriarchal expression, notably in the violence of contact sports such as football and hockey. Thus, the gay man (and the book is exclusively about gay men) involved in sports finds himself caught in a paradox, simultaneously subverting the orthodox patriarchy while in many cases worshipping the conventional masculine ideal.<br />Pronger's views are convincing, though the reader may feel that he takes too long to build his case. However, the book has many excerpts from interviews with gay athletes and gay men who are simply interested in sports, and these anecdotes lend immediacy and interest to the sometimes rather dry analysis. They also, one must admit, are frequently hot, as are the copious illustrations. Pronger's succinct description of the psychological significance of the jockstrap is a classic of its kind. All in all, Pronger's book offers titillation and elucidation in equal, satisfying parts.	2003-12-08
US	51231665	R2ULA3T9429R0W	0471209910	442287232	I Never Walked Alone: The Autobiography of an American Singer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Memoirs of a thoughtful diva	Shirley Verrett must surely rank as one of the most distinguished American singers of the late twentieth century, with a combination of looks, voice and musical intelligence that carried her to the great halls and opera houses of the world, in practically all of the major mezzo-soprano and quite a few leading soprano roles of the operatic repertoire. Yet there has always been the sense that her career could have reached even greater heights, and this unusually thoughtful and introspective book of reminiscences addresses that question mark.<br />The book is ghostwritten, and the plainness of the writing is an advantage, as makes it seem as if a genuine person's voice is coming through. Verrett details her early upbringing in California, as the daughter of strict Seventh-Day Adventist parents; her early desire to sing and perform, and the encouragement of her father; her hesitant early steps forward, at one point turning down an opportunity to study with the great Lotte Lehmann; her unhappy first marriage and her happier second, with an adopted daughter. The sense of the importance of her family runs strong through her later, standard recounting of musical triumphs, and gives some explanation for career moves that seemed strange in the public eye at the time--when La Scala offered her a blank five-year contract after her extraordinary triumph there as Lady MacBeth, for example, she turned it down as it would have meant uprooting her husband from his established niche as a New York artist. Such a frank recounting of conflicts between the demands of career and family, as well as a willingness to discuss other faulty decisions (leaving RCA as a recording artist, for example) and her chronic health problems set this book apart from the usual diva memoir and make it at times an unusually touching self-portrait.<br />Apart from some dissection of her uneasy relationships with fellow mezzo-sopranos Marilyn Horne and Grace Bumbry, there is little sense of an inside look at the operatic world, nor does Verrett address the whole question of her taking up soprano roles such as Norma and Tosca, which many observers felt was a mistake, in any but general, self-justifying terms. As an artistic, as opposed to a personal, self-analysis this volume is not up to the level of, say, Astrid Varnay's memoirs. The lack of a detailed performance chronology is also a distinct liability. Still, overall this particular opera memoir is a memorable and entertaining read.he operatic world, nor does Verrett address the whole question of her taking up soprano roles such as Norma and Tosca, which many observers felt was a mistake, in any but general, self-justifying terms. As an artistic, as opposed to a personal, self-analysis this volume is not up to the level of, say, Astrid Varnay's memoirs. The lack of a detailed performance chronology is also a distinct liability. Still, overall this particular opera memoir is a memorable and entertaining read.	2003-07-09
US	51231665	R321B4TUHOVDBY	1570613249	483532124	Best Places Central California Coast: Santa Cruz to Santa Barbara	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Selective, not comprehensive	This guide is for the experienced traveler. Judith Wylie is a good writer and she makes the places and attractions she describes come alive. On a recent trip to the West Coast I bought this book and found its recommendations which I followed to be accurate.<br />However, the Best Places series' emphasis on selectivity means an awful lot of choices as far as lodging and dining are concerned are left out. For someone beginning to explore an area a more inclusive guidebook might be a better choice. Also this book has no illustrations or photographs (save for the cover), which lessens both its attractiveness and usefulness.	2003-06-20
US	51231665	R8ZHQVAYYFWYE	0940159473	51030870	Musical New York: An Informal Guide to Its History and Legends and a Walking Tour of Its Sites and Landmarks	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A good guidebook to out-of-the-way places	Carol Binkowski has put together a comprehensive and enjoyable guidebook. Her exhaustive list of places in New York that have significance in the city's musical history makes absorbing reading, even if one has no intention of actually visiting all of these places. The opening chapters on New York's musical history are necessarily somewhat superficial, but in-depth research is not the point here. This volume is thus a perfect reference for the music lover who wants to do a walking tour of significant places and locations in the Big Apple.	2003-06-15
US	51231665	R1NM1KRSDJK9LN	0912483482	172268105	Anatomy of a New York Debut Recital: A Chronicle	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A musical and personal chronicle	Carol Montparker's slender volume detailing her thoughts in the months leading up to her New York debut recital in Carnegie Recital Hall (now Weill Hall) in February 1976 elicited extravagant praise from some notable pianists when it first appeared, judging by the blurbs on the dust jacket of my copy. At first reading, such hoopla seems exaggerated. Entirely absent from the book, for one thing, is any sense of why Ms. Montparker (who moved on to become a senior editor of Clavier magazine) feels it is so important to do this, i.e., make a &quot;New York debut.&quot; One would like more historical context of the event, why so many musicians have felt that playing their first New  York performance is such a milestone in their professional life, but none is forthcoming. It seems that, at least in 1976, Ms. Montparker thought the importance of the New York debut was self-evident to anyone reading this book. Since then, the New York Times has stopped reviewing debut recitals, numerous symphony orchestras have collapsed financially, record labels have dropped most of their classical artists, and the supreme position of New York in a musical career has, by consensus opinion, largely crumbled.<br />Thus, the cultural context that Ms. Montparker presupposes for her chronicle has mostly vanished. That being said, there is still much of value in her diary. Though she indulges in some irritatingly self-conscious writing (&quot;I like my hands&quot;) and literary devices, such as deliberately keeping dates and other information vague, her willingness to reveal her personal insecurities disarms the reader. Any musician who has prepared for a major debut or other important concert or audition can relate to her struggles with memorization and stage fright, her doubts about the wisdom of the endeavor, and her attempts to schedule sufficient practice time while juggling myriad other obligations. One roots for her success and rejoices in her ultimate triumph. Long out of print, then, this volume is still worth seeking out.his volume is still worth seeking out.	2003-05-01
US	51231665	R7R181D931Y6P	0789300796	776420160	Naked Men : Pioneering Male Nudes 1935-1955	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Beautiful, but less than meets the eye	David Leddick's \\"Naked Men\\" is a most unusual collection of nude photography. Leddick's expressed intent is to chronicle the early history of photographing unclothed men, and he sets about it in two divergent ways. The narrative centers around the photographer George Platt Lynes (1907-1955), the creator of many of the photographs reproduced in the volume, and his circle of like-minded friends in early twentieth-century New York, including the artist Paul Cadmus (still living), and the recently deceased arts impresario Lincoln Kirstein.<br />Although the pictures of course hold a strong homoerotic appeal and many of the subjects were romantically and physically entwined with their photographers and each other, the book is not a gay history. In fact, there is not enough history included in the text, which is framed by large expanses of blank page and ceases for much of the book. The inclusion of brief histories and present-day, or at least more recent, photographs of the models is Leddick's second main innovation, and is indeed effective--the juxtaposition of the men in their youthful beauty and their serene, still handsome older selves offers surprising, often moving revelations to the viewer and reader. Yet here again, one wishes that more of them were allowed to speak for themselves. The photographs included are large and beautifully reproduced (a eye-popping highlight is one of a very young Yul Brynner), but it is downright churlish to offer a smoldering picture of a half-undressed Jack Fontan, state that it is \\"one of a series of photos in which the subject performs... a striptease until he is fully unclothed,\\" and then not show any more! In short, this is a book that, overall, has an effect exactly like many of its photographs--it tantalizes, but in the end leaves one a bit unsatisfied.	2003-04-15
US	51231665	R2SBPU3FVQ56CB	1555534937	403717046	No Vivaldi in the Garage: A Requiem for Classical Music in North America	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	One man's perspective	Sheldon Morgenstern, conductor and Director Emeritus of the venerable Eastern Music Festival, has written what purports in its preface to be a hard, comprehensive look at the deteriorating state of the arts in general and classical music in particular in North America. The book doesn't turn out quite that way--it is mostly a career memoir, interesting and colorful enough with many telling anecdotes about one musician's formative years and influences. &quot;No Vivaldi in the Garage&quot; works best on this level. As an indictment of the sad state of the performing arts today it offers a valid portrait, but no solutions other than the oft-stated ones of not cutting music in the public schools et al. In addition, while Morgenstern must be given credit for being willing to name names, too much personal criticism of particular figures makes his writing seem at times petty and whiny.	2003-04-13
US	51231665	R34ACTTTUXJP9J	0801850894	352454818	Stage to Studio: Musicians and the Sound Revolution, 1890-1950 (Studies in Industry and Society)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absorbing history of an art and a business	James Kraft, a historian at the University of Hawaii/Manoa, tackles a huge but underexplored topic: the impact of the major technological innovations of the early twentieth century on the livelihood of the performing musicians. For those interested in the lives of musical stars, whether in the classical or popular fields, this book will be disappointing. Kraft regards music-making as very much a business: this is a history of the struggles of organized labor, in the form of the American Federation of Musicians, to maintain job security and incomes for their rank-and-file members in the face of two revolutions that changed the business of supplying music to the masses forever. The first was the advent of sound movies, which in a very few years wiped out the livelihoods of thousands upon thousands of musicians who had performed live music for showings of silent films in moviehouses across the nation. The second was radio, which quickly proved a boon for the sound recording industry, further eroding the need for live performers.<br />STAGE TO STUDIO is an absorbing and carefully researched chronicle. As a performing musician I emerged from reading it more aware of just why it is that it is so difficult to make a living as a musician now, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, and grateful to Petrillo and other major players in the AFM who, against all odds, struggled to preserve work and benefits for the beleaguered members of their union.	2003-02-22
US	51231665	R31W8G6A3TJAD4	0393048101	36899158	America's Musical Life: A History	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A panoramic view	Richard Crawford's ambitious book seems a culmination of his previous work, attempting to encompass the whole of American musical activity since the birth of the nation. His basic methodology of dividing American music into three spheres, classical, popular and folk, is a successful tool for making a gargantuan subject more manageable. His chronology makes an attempt to at least cast a glance at each of these areas as it progresses through the centuries.<br />Some of the individual chapters are, in my opinion, among the strongest essays available on their particular topics. Due to my own lack of previous knowledge in these fields I particularly enjoyed the chapters on the beginnings of organized music making in America, through the church. In particular, the split between the Methodist ideal of polished musical performance and literacy, and the more fundamentalist view that music in worship was direct communication with God, communication hindered by too much technical knowledge--this is a schism whose echoes are still apparent today.<br />Later on, the chapter on Ives takes a very small corner of the composer's output--six songs--to give a lucid and comprehensive survey of his style, a ingenious solution to the problem of how to give an accurate picture of an enormous, heterogenous body of work in a limited space.<br />Occasionally during the course of such an enormous work Crawford struggles with his task. At times one has the impression that topics and personages are being included and examined out of a sense of duty rather than real conviction about their significance; one can also quarrel with the choice of emphasis as Crawford approaches the present day. Nor do I think his surprising conclusion, which examines an actual, recent concert performance in which he was personally involved, succeeds in his goal of synthesizing his overall points by looking at them in microcosm, as it were. Still, he hits the the mark at enough points in this sweeping chronology to make it one of the finest works yet to appear on this topic.ke it one of the finest works yet to appear on this topic.	2003-01-09
US	51231665	R1GB82OIF7ZN6C	1555837808	999536133	Hero of Flight 93: Mark Bingham (An Advocate Books Life Story)	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	Moving for what it is, not how it's written	This short biography of Mark Bingham, who died on Flight 93 that terrible day of September 11, 2001, most likely as a member of a heroic group attempting to thwart the hijackers who had taken over his plane, is carefully written and researched by one of the senior editors of the Advocate. He's done the best job possible of presenting Mark Bingham as the human being he was, which includes the fact that he was a gay man. The parallels and differences drawn between Bingham and the gay man who saved Gerald Ford from possible assassination by Sara Jane Moore are very striking and food for thought. Most of the quotes are carefully chosen and only occasionally, as in a long string of e-mail correspondence between Bingham and a friend, is there a suspicion of padding.<br />Ultimately the impact of this book is muted solely by the fact that no words can adequately reproduce the impact of the attacks that changed America forever, and too many facts tend to obscure, rather than clarify, the subject and its attendant emotions. The short quote from Mark Bingham about his philosophy of life near the end of the book, as related by one of his friends, is more moving in context than anything else. If you know what I'm talking about, it's not necessary to read the rest; if you don't, it's worth buying the book just to read that.	2002-12-03
US	51231665	R2MSJPNM1HXH1T	1555837395	738504810	Cocksure: Erotic Fiction	Books	3	25	29	N	Y	Hot, up to a point	Bob Vickrey is an author of male erotica who's had a considerable amount of success. This collection of his tales delivers the goods, up to a point. He has an eye for the deliciously sleazy but also the unexpected and playful as well. One of the best tales, for example, \\"Dads,\\" involves the hooking up of two gay men who discover that they have something in common--children. A tale of two firemen, a college boy, a swimming pool and a very big conflagration is high adventure as well as a good stroke story.<br />However, Vickrey strains too hard for effect quite a few times in this collection, particularly when he tries to shove erotica into the same bed with other genre fiction such as sci-fi or horror. Also, when read back-to-back, the sex scenes become monotonous. Yes, this is a basic problem with the genre but it's possible to be a little more varied than this. His penchant for first-person, present-tense writing also seems rather unadventurous. Thus, this is a collection best enjoyed in small doses, as the separate tales they originally were.	2002-12-03
US	51231665	R22A7HY924084O	0226426157	171682502	Love Stories: Sex between Men before Homosexuality	Books	5	48	50	N	Y	Fascinating history	Jonathan Katz, who by now is one of the most respected scholars of gay history, has written another telling volume about same-sex love in America. This one centers around the nineteenth century. Well-known names appear in these pages, principally the towering figure of poet Walt Whitman, who not only espoused the ideal of love between men in his own life, but was a mentor and inspirational figure to others struggling with their desires for those of their own gender.<br />Katz's overall point is that one cannot judge the sexual behavior of men of the past by today's standards and attitudes--for much of the nineteenth century, there existed no sharp dichotomy between man-woman (heterosexual) and man-man or woman-woman (homosexual) behavior. Rather, distinctions were made between _types_ of love, spiritual as opposed to carnal, and _types_ of erotic behavior, procreative as opposed to non-procreative. Even among acts judged early on to be immoral or wrong, some were more wrong than others--oral copulation for a long time was not regarded with the same revulsion as other penetrative acts, for example. Having delineated these basic arguments, Katz then tells the stories of individual men and specific incidents (trials, arrests, news reports, et al.) against this background, bringing a historical perspective of unusual lucidity to all of these disparate tales.<br />Although he does not specifically attempt to tie his history toward attitudes and behavior of the present day, one of the beneficial effects of Katz's study is that the careful reader can discern where the frequently virulent prejudices against gays and lesbians that remain today got their start. The fact that many of these once did NOT exist, moreover, gives hope for the future. This is an unusual, valuable, candid and ultimately very moving chronicle.	2002-11-11
US	51231665	R38MH1J4974KUO	0028647394	151306071	American Aria: From Farm Boy to Opera Star	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Not quite what it could have been	Now that Sherrill Milnes' career is winding down after four decades, it appears that the long line of twentieth-century American baritones with the vocal amplitude and stamina to tackle the great Verdi roles (Lawrence Tibbett, Robert Merrill, Leonard Warren et al.) is indeed coming to an end.<br />Opera singer memoirs are a literary breed unto themselves. This one has many points of interest, especially early on. Milnes' recounting of his ancestry, youth, family and upbringing gives a fascinating picture of how a great operatic voice arose out of the farm town of Downers Grove, IL. His early tales of life as a student musician, itinerant opera singer and band member make funny and sometimes harrowing reading. There are many of the usual backstage anecdotes, some very funny, with names discreetly veiled at appropriate moments.<br />Milnes courageously tackles the issue of the vocal crisis that began in 1981 and dogged him for much of the succeeding decade head-on in a separate chapter, the best in the book. His recounting of the terror that overtakes a performer who sees his entire artistic life and livelihood endangered pierces the reader's heart. These pages are written with an honesty and a willingness to put aside ego that is absent elsewhere in this volume.<br />The reader who picks up _American Aria_ hoping for any penetrating self-analysis or significant thoughts from Milnes about the music and operatic roles he sang so well will ultimately be disappointed. About the callous termination of his long and distinguished Met career in 1997 he is justifiably indignant; still, one wishes for some sense that perhaps his abilities had changed and that it was necessary to turn his career in a new direction. Though it is fashionable to denigrate ghostwritten autobiographies, a perceptive co-writer or interviewer in this case might have drawn more insights and revelations from Milnes than he appears willing to give of his own volition.	2002-09-29
US	51231665	R19RZUEZAVXSTF	0521219639	486893501	Beethoven's String Quartets	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Authoritative analysis	This volume is worth tracking down. In compact, concise essays, Radcliffe describes each quartet in musical detail, relating the pieces to other quartets by Beethoven as well as works in other genres, thus demonstrating how the work fits into his development as a composer. Frequent quotes from and comparisons with early sketches reveal the process by which each work achieved its final form. Musical examples are copious and always well chosen. In short, this is a model musical guidebook. It would be gratifying if some enterprising reprint house were to pick it up.	2002-09-23
US	51231665	R3JWD74B5CDXLC	0199249660	232318540	A French Song Companion	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Worthy companion to Bernac	Pierre Bernac's _Interpretation of French Song_ has long been the indispensable reference volume for singers and coaches of this rich musical literature. The focus of the present volume is somewhat different, more comprehensive in its listings of composers (any composer of significance who set French texts is included, resulting in some surprising listings, Bernstein and Dinu Lipatti, for example), but less didactic in terms of pronounciation and performance. The translations by Richard Stokes are so good that one wishes even more had been included. Graham Johnson's commentaries on composers and songs are readable and full of insight. There are useful indices and suggestions for further reading. Altogether, this is a comprehensive and fascinating volume for both performing musicians and other lovers of French art song.	2002-09-20
US	51231665	R31FFANDCI1H71	0312182996	806173107	Affectionate Men: A Photographic History of a Century of Male Couples, 1850-1950	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unusual and touching	This slim volume of old daguerrotypes, tintypes, and photographs of men together provides a touching reminder of a time when males felt no inhibitions about expressing physical affection for one another and having it documented on film. The men who populate these pages may or may not have been sexual lovers, but their casual embraces and closeness are curiously moving in a time when gay men and women are struggling for acceptance against frequently virulent opposition. The only drawbacks to this volume are its short length and occasionally cutesy artwork, but these should not dissuade any reader from enjoying these images.	2002-08-07
US	51231665	R2IAS5T8BQBFC2	1565122518	320531227	Boulevard	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Elegant writing but lesser Grimsley	This latest novel by Jim Grimsley is a coming-of-age tale about Newell, a naive young man from Alabama who moves to New Orleans and gradually comes to terms with his sexuality. The book is filled with Grimsley's characteristic elegant prose. His skill in evoking the feel of a locale is remarkable--the sights, tastes, sounds and even smells of New Orleans come vividly to life for the reader. However, Grimsley's ability to draw complete characters becomes a liability in this work, as about halfway through Newell's story is relegated to the sidelines in favor of following the lives of other colorful but subsidiary denizens of the seedy demimonde of the Latin Quarter. A belated attempt to resolve the central tale results in a rushed and unsatisfactory conclusion.  Still, the incidental pleasures of the author's prose are enough to make this a worthwhile read.	2002-08-01
US	51231665	R1GMYE9H6TDA7A	1582342091	370558559	Adventures of a No Name Actor	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Entertaining memoir by a bit player in the biz	Marco Perella, an actor based in Austin, Texas, recounts the highs and lows of being a working actor somewhere other than New York or Los Angeles. Perella has a way with an anecdote and his attempts to make a go of what he sees as a very strange business are frequently hilarious. Particularly telling are accounts of spending time on the set with two stars who have a very particular idea of dinner-table etiquette, and a frantic day when he has three auditions in three different Texas cities (hundreds of miles apart) AND a performance of \\"Streetcar Named Desire\\" in Austin that night. Choice nuggets about well-known names in Hollywood entice the reader with juicy, but never malicious, backstage gossip. Like his existence, Perella's writing style is pitched at a continuous high speed and volume and can get wearying, but it's easy in this loosely organized memoir to stop reading and come back for more at a later time.	2002-07-02
US	51231665	R23O6LX9LC27F0	1570231710	433850442	The Air Traveler's Survival Guide: The Plane Truth From 35,000 Feet	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Reasonably diverting	Written by A. Frank Steward (ha, ha), this volume is a little bit of memoir, a little bit of advice by a seasoned veteran of the skies, but mostly a collection of stories about the life of a flight attendant. Tales of hijacking are conspicuous by their absence and security procedures are dealt with in bland admonishments to remember that it's for the traveler's good, thus instantly dating this book as pre-9/11. Talking about coach-class meal service is another dead giveaway.<br />It was probably funnier before last fall to read about people on planes who get sick, drunk, loopy enough to take off all their clothes in the john, or who get stuck there. Still, amid the tiresome dross (there is WAY too much vomit flying around) there are scattered gems. I was moved, for example, by the tale of a double amputee determined to see the world, and the flight attendant who quit the business but could never find his place in life. Since the book has no plot or organization it's easy to skip over the lesser parts, at least. I'd say this one is a reasonably good way to pass the time on an economy class flight.	2002-07-02
US	51231665	R3MU2MKM9V52LJ	1555834604	98949724	Fragile Circle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Multiple perspectives on the AIDS crisis	This frequently moving memoir wears three distinctly different hats. First, it is a vivid portrait of a young lawyer who feels compelled to join the front lines of the emerging AIDS crisis. Senak was there at the beginning in the early 1980s, when the main work of those who cared was to help people die, when no one knew how the disease was transmitted or who would get it. The first third of the book presents some astounding stories, both of cowardice and cruelty and extraordinary courage. Second, it is a moving love story as Senak chronicles his meeting and brief, happy existence with Joseph, a waiter/actor with AIDS who turns to him for help. Third, it is a tale of an altogether different existence for Senak as he moves to Los Angeles and witnesses the disease invading ever more privileged and glamorous circles.<br />This multi-tiered perspective of the effect of this plague on the American social fabric gives Senak's book a special fascination. As in many first-person accounts of personal crisis, his passages of tortured self-analysis occasionally provoke impatience. There is ample compensation in the sparely written, and therefore all the more powerful, passages that recount in stark fashion the gradual decline and death of his partner. In these pages, Senak's work joins a select body of great literature that has arisen from this dark and still ongoing chapter in American social history.	2002-06-04
US	51231665	R39YOIVO1ALQEF	0962907596	33975407	Making Music in Looking Glass Land : A Guide to Survival and Business Skills for the Classical Performer (3rd ed)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	No-nonsense career guide	Ellen Highstein, longtime director of Concert Artists' Guild and now head of the summer study programs at Tanglewood, offers a concisely written, comprehensive career guide for the aspiring classical musician. Culled from and in part overlapping with material covered at CAGs live career workshops, there is much useful advice offered on everything from creating the best publicity materials, to making phone contacts, to finding venues in which to perform, to obtaining management. Highstein's remarks are backed up with authority as well as plenty of real-life anecdotes. She cannot disguise the fact that the career picture for classical music these days is essentially bleak--however, she offers the best practical tools for the artist who nevertheless wishes to make a go of it. This third edition is somewhat expanded but essentially unchanged from previous incarnations. The only drawback is that, dating from 1997, not enough is made of the rapidly expanding role of the Internet and various software in promoting oneself and one's material.	2002-05-11
US	51231665	R1KEZTSBWBQTFM	157467059X	705788950	The Unknown Callas: The Greek Years	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Overlong, but full of interest	Despite the volumes of material that have been written about her, Maria Callas remains a fascinating enigma both as a person and as an artist. Nicholas Petsalis-Diomidis has taken an important step in filling in some of the gaps that remain in our understanding by tracing in exhaustive detail the singer's early musical life in Greece, where she moved with her mother and sister in her early teens and remained until returning to the United States in 1945.<br />The perception that her Greek sojourn was a relatively unimportant preamble to her &quot;real&quot; career was in part propagated by Callas herself. Petsalis-Diomidis shows that the eight years she spent there were, on the contrary, an essential part of her musical development. It was in Athens that she received her first formal vocal training from Maria Trivella and Elvira de Hidalgo (the author is careful to give the former due credit in Callas' education), and sang her first leading roles onstage with the Athens Opera. Among her credits there were operas that would form the core of her later repertory, such as Tosca, and others that she would never sing again, such as Fidelio.<br />Perhaps even more fascinating than her musical history is the multitude of detail about Callas' personal life during this difficult time. Though he tries to be evenhanded, Petsalis-Diomidis is ultimately unsparing in his condemnation of Litsa, Callas' mother, whom he regards as an amoral and destructive parent. His collection of anecdotes about the hardships of war and the professional difficulties encountered by the young Callas make for fascinating reading. Occasionally his passion for research makes the narrative seem fussy and overburdened with detail (was it really necessary to give the diva's exact weight at various times in her career?), but in the main this carefully researched volume is an essential addition to the already voluminous collection of Callas writings. Credit must also be given to the fluent and readable English translation.h translation.	2002-04-09
US	51231665	RIYAICK90P6K2	1574670522	361163285	Teaching Genius: Dorothy DeLay and the Making of a Musician	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Interesting, but pulls too many punches	Barbara Lourie Sand's book about Dorothy DeLay is written by a polished journalist who knows how to tell a good story. The early part of the book is thus the most interesting, tracing DeLay's life and development, first as a moderately successful concert violinist and chamber musician, next as longtime assistant to the great pedagogue Ivan Galamian, and finally as legendary teacher and mentor of many of the most successful classical violinists of the 20th century.<br />Sand mentions in a preface that she shaped this book during the course of a ten-year association with DeLay during which she was also writing articles about some of her well-known students. She obviously had a warm and close relationship with DeLay, her husband Edward Newhouse, and her students, and while this gave her an enviable access it probably hurt her journalistic acumen in the end. Too often, troubling questions are raised and treated dismissively, or quickly dropped--the hardships of raising and nurturing exceptionally gifted children, or outright abuse in the name of discipline and training, for example. Sand treats DeLay's rupture with Galamian in a fair amount of detail, but does not mention that some of DeLay's students have broken very publicly with her as well. Criticisms of DeLay and her style are mostly confined to one chapter and are largely made by unnamed sources. Though DeLay's approach to teaching is discussed in detail, important issues, such as the pros and cons of learning from a teacher who herself never demonstrates, are left untouched.<br />In short, this book is a good read and intriguing glimpse into the arcane and competitive world of top classical music-making. Because of her unwillingness to &quot;go for the jugular,&quot; as she admits at one point, Barbara Lourie Sand loses a chance to make it even more.<br />Minor quibble: The Accolay Concerto is _not_  part of the Suzuki violin literature.	2001-12-27
US	51231665	R1TN2M5RR8GP9N	0072415703	967785083	Tonal Harmony, With an Introduction to Twentieth-Century Music	Books	4	52	54	N	N	Much improved but still has a ways to go	I've used this book for my first-year theory class for nine years, through three editions. I haven't found any better but that doesn't mean I think it's perfect. I agree with some of the other commentaries about the errors and the poor choice of musical examples. Students of mine have frequently complained about this. In addition, the book is very keyboard-centric and thus creates difficulties for people who don't play the piano and who aren't used to reading keyboard score. One can argue, of course, that keyboard facility is a skill any serious musician ought to have (being a pianist myself, I agree in principle), but still, there ARE good musicians who are not pianists who will struggle unnecessarily with this material.<br />Other, specific things I would change about the book: 1) The chapters on part-writing emphasize too heavily the minutiae of voice-leading and thus obscure the point that we're talking about the relative motion of complete melodic lines. More exercises involving only two parts, to give students a thorough grounding in the basics (i.e., no parallel fifths and octaves), would really help. 2) Although including discussions and examples from popular music is a good idea, the section that tries to explain the concept of &quot;suspension&quot; in pop chord symbols is skimpy and confusing. 3) I find the whole explanation of harmonic progression, based on the circle-of-fifths progression, unconvincing. Piston's looser cataloging for me better fits the reality of tonal music.	2001-12-09
US	51231665	R10I2WKW6GZBHV	0684807114	191508905	Marian Anderson: A Singer's Journey: The First Comprehensive Biography	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Humanizing a legend	Allan Keiler's biography of the great African-American contralto Marian Anderson is meticulously researched and detailed. Having exhaustively consulted contemporary sources neglected by other researchers, such as black newspapers, and personally interviewed many people, including the singer herself, Keiler sheds new light on the familiar story of Anderson's life and career.<br />Of particular interest is his detailed chronology of the famous events of 1939 that began with the refusal of the Daughters of the American Revolution to allow Anderson to give a concert in Constitution Hall in Washington, D.C., and ended with her outdoor concert on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, a performance that propelled the singer to iconic status in the civil rights movement. His recounting of this and subsequent events, including her eventual success in obtaining a performance in Constitution Hall years later, reveals Anderson to have been surprisingly hesitant and passive in combatting segregation, and by no means unequivocally in favor of some of the bolder, more confrontational moves of her supporters.<br />Likewise, Keiler probes her personal relationships, something Anderson was reticent about in her own autobiography, and reveals a human being with faults and frailties, one who could be dictatorial and impatient toward members of her family, and aloof and uncommunicative when terminating relationships with lovers and artistic collaborators (notably Billy King, her first regular accompanist, who never recovered from the pain of being replaced by Kosti Vehanen). In no way do these revelations detract from Anderson's accomplishments as a musician; rather, they form a touching picture of the real sacrifices she had to make in the service of her talent.<br />The one major area in which this book falls short is a detailed examination of Anderson's vocal art. Despite her unique status in American history, the singer comes from and joins several well-defined artistic traditions--the low-voiced female classical singer, a vocal species now almost extinct; the singer who makes a career through concert and oratorio work rather than opera; and the African-American classical singer. With her well-documented performance history and large recorded legacy, the time is ripe for a definitive study of Anderson the vocal artist, writing of the kind John Ardoin and Michael Scott have published about Maria Callas and her work. Despite its many virtues this volume does not pretend to, nor does it accomplish this task.low-voiced female classical singer, a vocal species now almost extinct; the singer who makes a career through concert and oratorio work rather than opera; and the African-American classical singer. With her well-documented performance history and large recorded legacy, the time is ripe for a definitive study of Anderson the vocal artist, writing of the kind John Ardoin and Michael Scott have published about Maria Callas and her work. Despite its many virtues this volume does not pretend to, nor does it accomplish this task.	2001-11-26
US	51231665	R3HLN8JNDAED5G	1555531466	326745973	Maria Meneghini Callas	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Carefully researched study of Callas the musician	Michael Scott's book on the life and career of Maria Callas holds a strong appeal for the musician. Although he orders his study chronologically and includes quite a bit of biographical detail, this is not a book for gossip lovers. Instead, Scott dispassionately evaluates Callas' singing in general and major performances and roles in particular.<br />Scott's basic thesis is that Callas reached her vocal peak early, in the first part of the 1950s, and her great weight loss was in large part responsible for a general vocal decline thereafter, at first slow, then precipitous after her divorce from Meneghini.<br />At times his viewpoint provides a useful corrective to stories that have been handed down and repeated that are not exactly true--his take on the infamous Rome Norma of January 1958 is a striking example. His opinion that the root cause of many of the &quot;scandals&quot; that dogged her career was escalating vocal trouble certainly deserves serious consideration.<br />On the other hand, Scott is too quick to dismiss much of Callas' work from the later 1950s. By then, the early, prodigious vocal endowment had somewhat diminished, true; but for most opera lovers these years were the time when her still responsive voice was matched with her most exquisite musicianship.<br />Most readers will disagree, perhaps vehemently, with some of Scott's judgements and opinions; yet, by virtue of his firsthand witnessing of many of Callas' performances and determined avoidance of scandalmongering, his book joins a select company of work by Fitzgerald, Ardoin, Jellinek and a few others as one that sheds true light on the art of this much-discussed singer.	2001-11-20
US	51231665	R2ZI9BL3146NT4	0870744542	426266934	La Scala West: The Dallas Opera under Kelly and Rescigno	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	More than a coffee-table volume	This history of the early years of the Dallas Opera covers the period from 1957, when the Dallas Civic Opera was inaugurated by Lawrence Kelly and Nicola Rescigno, to 1976, two years after Kelly's death. If nothing else, the profusion of production photographs, many rarely seen, would make this book worth perusal. Ronald L. Davis is a professor of history who has written about opera before. His workmanlike writing style cannot entirely avoid the occasional feeling of simply plodding through descriptions of the productions, with these singers, that producer, that director, et al. Still, overall, he manages to convey the excitement of these years, when the Dallas company brought stars of the caliber of Callas, Sutherland and Zeffirelli, in operas that the Met and other mainstream companies wouldn't touch, such as Alcina, Medea and L'Italiana in Algeri. The brashness and charm of Lawrence Kelly, whose vision started the company and whose charm and persuasiveness often kept it going through financial crises that would have sunk other organizations, emerges clearly as well.	2001-10-16
US	51231665	R3IAPFHNJR0W4N	0375727191	43530431	The Laramie Project	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A play better seen than read	Moises Kaufman, who created the magnificent stage drama _Gross Indecency_, based on the trial of Oscar Wilde, here takes another true-life incident, the murder of Matthew Shephard, the young gay man who was beaten and left to die in Laramie, Wyoming, and applies the same documentary techniques, culling the monologues and characters from interviews with actual residents of the town and people variously involved with the tragedy and its aftermath.<br />I saw the play in its Off-Broadway incarnation and was overwhelmed by the drama, brought out by a magnificent cast (members of which helped write the text), many playing multiple characters. The skill and passion of the actors, I think, was responsible for much of the power of the evening, combined with a simple but effective production. Inevitably, reading the text alone will not bring out the full impact of this work. Still, it is a powerful testament and one that should be disseminated in whatever form. If it's produced anywhere in your neighborhood, I would say, run, don't walk to see it.	2001-10-04
US	51231665	R17S06CKHXYBNS	0312253516	765537176	Briefly Told Lives	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Uneven but generally engaging	C. Bard Cole's laconic style limns a wide variety of gay characters in this collection of stories, from middle- and upper-class men, to denizens of the counterculture, to drug addicts and murderers. His ability to sketch a complete character in a few words is astonishing, and his deliberately documentary-like prose can make an unlikely interracial romance unexpectedly touching. Conversely, the tale of two teenage sex buddies who almost casually descend into murder and addiction chills to the bone when told this way. On the other hand, sometimes the flat style means the narratives remain--well, flat. Overall, there are enough engaging moments in this collection to keep one turning the pages, and the lesser tales are, if nothing else, short.	2001-10-03
US	51231665	R30NBNO5UHCMSA	0312269862	591507890	Maria Callas: An Intimate Biography	Books	3	19	21	N	Y	Flashes of interest, but mostly repackaged gossip	With so much biographical literature already available on Maria Callas, any new volume at this point, almost a quarter century after her death, had better be prepared to offer something truly new in the way of either information or insight. Although Anne Edwards is a respected biographer of famous, unhappy women (i.e., Viven Leigh, Princess Diana of Wales), her latest effort does not, on the whole, meet this standard.<br />There are new details about Callas' life that pique the interest: a closer recounting of her miserable years in wartime Greece, painting her mother Litza in even blacker colors than in previous material; gossip about Onassis' encounters with other famous women (I had never heard, for example, of his alleged youthful affair with another diva, Claudia Muzio); and more detail about the tangled web that was woven after her death, when the pianist Vasso Devetzi, who had befriended her in her last years, swindled her mother and sister out of literally millions of dollars from the singer's estate. These tidbits are recounted with enough authority to make the reader wonder where the information came from, since Edwards provides only scanty documentation about her sources. Her refutation of Nicholas Gage's claim of there having been a Callas-Onassis &quot;love child&quot; proves to be largely assertion and re-interpretation of existing fact. Set against this is the mostly familiar retelling of stories that have been told ad nauseam--the feud with Bing, the Rome walkout--perpetuating in some cases falsehoods that have been disproven. Edwards proves unable to shed new light on what created the excitement about Callas in the first place--her vocal and dramatic abilities that made her the most charismatic operatic performer of her time. A plethora of careless misspellings that could easily have been checked (Renata &quot;Tibaldi&quot;, &quot;Katrina&quot; Paxinou for example), further undermines credibility when she attempts to address the diva's career.<br />The reader who wants true insight into Callas' unique artisty should investigate vastly superior writing by John Ardoin, Gerald Fitzgerald, George Jellinek and  Michael Scott. As far as gossip about her life is concerned there are any number of books by people who actually knew Callas. For that matter, Arianna Stassinopoulos' effort from the early eighties is better written, and if she plagiarized her material, as some assert, she at least stole from authoritative sources.The reader who wants true insight into Callas' unique artisty should investigate vastly superior writing by John Ardoin, Gerald Fitzgerald, George Jellinek and  Michael Scott. As far as gossip about her life is concerned there are any number of books by people who actually knew Callas. For that matter, Arianna Stassinopoulos' effort from the early eighties is better written, and if she plagiarized her material, as some assert, she at least stole from authoritative sources.	2001-09-18
US	51231665	RFS6C5T1PFIHO	093134090X	752092286	Callas Legacy, The: The Complete Guide to Her Recordings on Compact Di	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Indispensable reference for Callas and opera fans	John Ardoin's recent death is a real loss for opera buffs everywhere, as it means that there will be no more updated editions, at least by him, of this exhaustively researched guide to the recordings of arguably the greatest, certainly the most famous opera singer of the twentieth century.<br />At the time of its publication this incarnation had the most complete data about the diva's recordings on compact disc then available, including newly discovered complete performances of Aida and La Traviata. Even when the information goes out of date, as it inevitably will (new incarnations of live performances will appear, and perhaps rumored unpublished material will surface), Ardoin's gracefully written, knowledgeable and balanced commentaries on Callas' work will remain an endless source of pleasure. May _The Callas Legacy_ come back into print, and soon!	2001-09-12
US	51231665	R361CG04SDFY1O	156512250X	634439244	Comfort and Joy	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	A tender romance with a dark past	Although _Comfort and Joy_ shares characters with an earlier work by Grimsley, _Winter Birds_, the two novels could not be more different. Whereas the earlier work is a dark, harrowing tale of violence and domestic abuse, the present novel chronicles the hesitant, tender romance between a grown-up Dan Crell, coping with hemophilia and HIV as well as the scars left by his upbringing, and Ford McKinney, a handsome doctor from a rich family. They meet at the hospital where Dan is an administrator and Ford is a resident, fall in love and struggle with the issues so many gay male couples face: intimacy, money and their families. Though occasionally there is clumsy expository dialogue, surprising for a writer as skilled as Grimsley, and a false note or two in the romance, ultimately the author convinces the reader of his central argument. The contrasting holiday scenes in the Atlanta household and the humble residence of Dan's mother, now remarried, in South Carolina show that the rigid gentility of Ford's well-to-do Atlanta family constitutes its own kind of domestic abuse. One roots for the survival of this unlikely couple, and is uplifted by the ambiguous but hopeful ending. I read the earlier _Winter Birds_ some time after finishing _Comfort and Joy_ and realized that, despite the dramatic contrast in tone between the two, knowing the former adds depth to the later story and increases one's appreciation of both works.	2001-08-28
US	51231665	R1S9W1ZZFTGHIL	0312263031	543338950	The Coming Storm	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flawed but compelling view of a controversial topic	Paul Russell's ambitious novel tackles a ticklish subject--a developing attraction and eventual sexual relationship at a private boys' school between Tracy Parker, a newly arrived teacher, and Noah Lathrop, a student. Events also involve Louis, the repressed headmaster of the school, conscious of advancing age and career failure, and his patient, searching wife Claire, who in the absence of a satisfying marriage has filled the void with her own teaching and writing. Russell deserves credit for his central assertion that a gay man and an underage boy could have a more or less equal, non-exploitative sexual relationship without lasting damage to either. He clearly is passionate about this stance and the characters of Tracy and Noah are the most clearly and finely delineated in the novel--the steps by which Noah comes to a realization of his own homosexual urges, by way of a fellow student, are particularly convincing. One grows impatient when the story dwells on Louis and Claire, who come off as dreary and indecisive in comparison. The presence of many vividly drawn subsidiary characters, such as Louis' hedonistic friend Reid and Noah's chillingly controlled father, captivates the reader but tends to distract from the main plot--too much is packed into a relatively small space for a satisfactory balance, though there is an unexpected and satisfying, though hardly happy, resolution to the central love affair at the conclusion. &quot;The Coming Storm&quot; is by no means a perfectly controlled or structured novel, yet somehow it haunts the reader afterward in a way that more polished pieces of literature do not.	2001-08-24
US	51231665	RLEYZ0E5GHCY5	0156011352	190410376	The Million Dollar Mermaid: An Autobiography	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A most unusual Hollywood career	Esther Williams is one of the most successful of the handful of world-class athletes who made the transition to Hollywood star. She had the goods as a champion swimmer, though she never quite made it to the Olympics. This breezily written autobiography makes it all seem rather a lot of fun, making movie after movie that showcased her very particular talents. The descriptions of how the visually spectacular swimming sequences in her films were achieved, often with great physical danger to the star (this was long before the computer-generated effects that are commonplace today), are among the most interesting--and hair-raising--portions of the book.<br />There was plenty of drama in Williams' personal life as well, and her travails with various alcoholic, abusive and swindling husbands and lovers make depressingly familiar reading. There are enough titillating revelations about the men in her life, Johnny Weismuller and Jeff Chandler among them, to keep a reader eagerly turning the pages, though one wonders as usual about the ethics of revealing intimate secrets about people who are no longer around to defend themselves. Still, such discomfort didn't stop _me_ from finishing the book, nor will it dissuade many others, I suspect. In short, &quot;Million Dollar Mermaid&quot; is a highly entertaining entry in the Hollywood tell-all sweepstakes.	2001-08-07
US	51231665	RFJ5C9ESN2YGB	0684829916	544518636	Winter Birds: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Grim coming-of-age tale in the deep South	Jim Grimsley's spare, polished prose, told in the second person, expertly sets forth the tale of a poor family struggling to survive in the deep South, the twist here being the hemophilia that afflicts two of the siblings. The alcoholic, abusive father and the long-suffering mother trying to shield her children from his wrath--these are figures familiar from other writers who have explored this milieu. Grimsley's economical style, however, consistently avoids excess, even at the harrowing (and, to my taste, implausible) climax, and successfully avoids tipping the narrative into tawdry melodrama. Not easy reading, but not easy to put down either.	2001-08-06
US	51231665	R1LJEISC8I0H54	0198163045	378323353	The Piano Trio: Its History, Technique, and Repertoire (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An interesting guide, but not comprehensive	Smallman traces the history of the piano trio, that is, chamber music written for the pianoforte and two other instruments, from its origins in the eighteenth century to the late twentieth century. He points out how the first two great composers whose trios remain in the repertory, Haydn and Mozart, followed essentially different paths with regard to the genre, the former developing the old-fashioned concept of the accompanied keyboard sonata to its ultimate peak in his superb late trios, the latter aiming for a new type of collaborative style between three independent instruments. The main musical problem, as Smallman implies but does not explicity state in a useful chapter on basic trio-writing technique, is that the piano quickly evolved into such a massive and tonally powerful instrument that composers since Beethoven have been hard-pressed to maintain equality between it and two other, much weaker instruments.<br />As can be seen from the above description, Smallman aims at a discussion of broad themes and topics as much as a chronological survey. While his technique of grouping compositions together by topic, within broadly chronological chapters, is usually successful, it results in some odd omissions: surely Vincent d'Indy's monumental Trio in B-flat for Piano, Clarinet and Cello is worth some detailed description, particularly since its composer is mentioned several times in other contexts. The last chapters on the twentieth century seem sketchy and unduly if understandably weighted toward composers from the United Kingdom. Still, any successive authors on this topic will be hard put to surpass the skill with which Smallman has surveyed and ordered this genre of classical music.	2001-08-06
US	51231665	R2KJSKBGTJTED3	080411918X	832554018	A Patchwork Planet	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Tyler writes about Everyman	Anne Tyler's gift for characterization is never more in evidence than in the narrator of this novel. Barnaby Gaitlin is the black sheep of a wealthy Baltimore family, divorced, working a menial job, struggling to maintain a semblance of respectability and good relations with his ex-wife and nine-year-old daughter. A chance encounter on a train to Philadelphia brings him together with Sophia, a calm, competent woman with whom Barnaby finds love and a chance at happiness. But life is never as simple as it seems...<br />As with many of Tyler's books, what seems at first to be a collection of inconsequential and even trivial events gathers a surprising cumulative force, due to the profusion of funny and moving observations about life, death, love and family along the way. The strength and emotional power of Patchwork Planet lies as much in the incidental encounters with Barnaby's clientele (he works for a service called Rent-a-Back, performing odd jobs for elderly and disabled folk) as with those nominally closer to him. By the end the reader is totally wrapped up in Barnaby's emotional odyssey, rooting for him to win through to happiness, which at the last he seems on the verge of attaining, though not in the way one might have expected.<br />A Patchwork Planet will speak to anyone who has felt overwhelmed by the small daily battles of existence, unloved by loved ones, and insecure about his/her place and purpose in life; in other words, just about anyone.	2001-06-13
US	51231665	R2J0JO5KSNYNIX	0253210550	592242480	The Piano in Chamber Ensemble: An Annotated Guide	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Another useful guide by Hinson	Maurice Hinson's _Guide to Pianist's Repertoire_ is now a standard fixture on the bookshelves of performers and teachers everywhere. The current volume is another staggeringly comprehensive repertoire guide, listing published chamber music written with the piano as an equal partner, in combinations of up to eight instruments, composed since 1700 (although a few works prior to that date are included). Hinson follows the format he has used before, grouping works by instrumentation, with the emphasis being on locating publishers. Other information is given as available, for example, movement titles, timings, no. of pages, level of difficulty, etc. (It may be noted that no discography is attempted.) Selected works are given descriptive annotations and evaluations. While a volume of this type will invariably require multiple editions to stay current, the information contained herein will be of value for many years to come.	2001-06-07
US	51231665	R39P5DD4IQE854	0917342526	26836419	Men Loving Men: A Gay Sex Guide	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A window into an earlier era updated	I bought this book as a college student just coming out, and  still have my worn and faded copy of the first edition more than twenty years later. It was a great revelation and comfort to me--first for its sensible how-to advice about sex, second for the whimsical line drawings that made gay sex seem not only normal but downright fun, third for the inserted section of beautiful, sexy photographs of men loving men (way before Tom Bianchi and company), and fourth and most importantly, for the way Mitch Walker conveyed the spiritual side of sex--a lesson I've often flouted, alas, but never quite forgotten.<br />I haven't seen this reprint, but assume that the advice has been updated with the requisite information and warnings about safer sex and AIDS, sadly necessary now in any manual of this sort. I hope the illustrations and photographs have been kept, though they may have fallen victim to changing standards of male attractiveness--when, oh when, is facial hair going to come back in style?? Anyway, I'm glad it's available again and would recommend it highly to any gay man, and especially to men just coming out and exploring their sexuality. May it help them as it helped me.	2001-04-08
US	51231665	R21SLKX3W52LAK	1574670425	736408219	Callas at Juilliard: The Master Classes (Ideologies of Desire)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Document of a great musician at work	In 1971-72, several years absent from the operatic and performing stage, Maria Callas appeared in a series of master classes at Juilliard, which attracted attention far beyond the world of the admittedly famed music school at which they were held.<br />There were several reasons for this. At the time Callas was still the most famous opera singer in the world, as much for her entanglement in the lives of Aristotle Onassis and Jacqueline Kennedy as for her vocal and dramatic artistry. The format of the master class is a peculiar hybrid of individual lesson and public performance, both for the students and the teacher. As Ardoin and others have pointed out, whatever her concern for imparting her knowledge and experience to students, Callas undoubtedly saw the Juilliard classes as an opportunity to test the waters--appearing and even singing, under the guise of demonstrating, in public again to see if she could handle a possible return to her career.<br />Minus the extramusical baggage that surrounded them, and the excitement Callas' personal presence and vocal illustrations must have created, what remains of these master classes? These faithful transcriptions of many of the sessions give as good an idea as can be had without actually listening to tapes, and show that Callas was a scrupulous, detailed and demanding musical taskmaster. To operatic connoisseurs, there is much interest in the variants, cuts and cadenzas she suggests, illustrated in many  musical examples which really need to be compared with published scores in order to obtain the clearest idea of her suggestions. One problem with the original edition was that the excerpts were riddled with printing mistakes--it remains to be seen how much, if any, of this has been rectified.<br />One is struck by the businesslike tone of much of the instruction, not at all like the embroidered scenarios of McNally's play, and how much Callas invokes her own teachers, such as Tullio Serafin, giving a real sense of the musical traditions of Italian opera. Ultimately, this book is mainly of interest to those who appreciate Callas the musician, not Callas the legendary diva. For such readers it repays careful perusal, though probably not all in one sitting. Amadeus Press is to be thanked for restoring this volume to the print catalogue.cal traditions of Italian opera. Ultimately, this book is mainly of interest to those who appreciate Callas the musician, not Callas the legendary diva. For such readers it repays careful perusal, though probably not all in one sitting. Amadeus Press is to be thanked for restoring this volume to the print catalogue.	2001-03-30
US	51231665	R3DTY3DPXXKBHY	1555534554	688365220	Fifty-Five Years In Five Acts: My Life in Opera	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Engrossing musical memoir	In the pantheon of twentieth-century Wagnerian sopranos, Astrid Varnay ranks very high, though she is woefully underrepresented on available recordings today. Through the efforts of friends and supporters, detailed in the preface, her autobiography has been made available in English, and music and opera fans everywhere should be grateful.<br />Varnay's story, told calmly but with frequent flashes of wit, begins with the tale of how her parents, both opera singers, met, married, and made their careers in Europe before coming to the U.S. and settling in New York. Young Violet Varnay, as she was dubbed by a teacher who could not cope with her Hungarian name Ibolyka (little violet), worked as a secretary, waited in the Met standing room line and quietly prepared herself for an operatic career. She prepared so well with her coach and eventual husband, Hermann Weigert, in fact, that her resume was met with astonished laughter at her eventual Met audition. The powers that be were quickly won over upon actually hearing her, and her stage career began at the Met in 1941 as a last-minute replacement for Lotte Lehmann in Die Walkure. Before retiring in the late 90s, after a career spanning more than five decades, her voice and dramatic presence would take her to Bayreuth and all of the great opera houses of the world.<br />It is of course difficult to say how much of the structure of the book stems from the singer herself, and how much from her co-author, Donald Arthur; but one of the attractions of this memoir is the skillful mix of narrative, anecdote and self-analysis of Varnay's numerous roles. She draws portraits of her husband, family and colleagues that leap vividly from the page, without ever descending to mere bitchiness, though she does allow herself some jabs at Herbert von Karajan and Rudolf Bing. The ultimate impression is of a strong, self-aware but not overweeningly arrogant personality--someone one would like to meet and talk to in person. One is touched by her inexhaustible eagerness to perform, and her capacity for discovering insights into roles usually dismissed as worthy only of comprimaria singers. She is also not above laughing at herself, and includes some amusingly informal photographs. Highly recommended.inexhaustible eagerness to perform, and her capacity for discovering insights into roles usually dismissed as worthy only of comprimaria singers. She is also not above laughing at herself, and includes some amusingly informal photographs. Highly recommended.	2001-03-22
US	51231665	R25NETRCIBM13B	0671027212	725696403	Frontiers	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Western myth with a twist of gay	Michael Jensen's first novel tells a tale gays have always suspected--there were indeed men who loved other men among those brave pioneers who settled America.<br />John Chapman is forced to flee to the uncharted wilds of New England when his affair with a British officer is discovered. Once there, he is saved by and begins a rough but hot relationship with the contentious Daniel McQuay, only to discover to his horror that the Irishman is not who he seems to be. The remainder of the novel details his escape to the settlement of Franklin from his savior turned psychotic killer, and his growing friendships with both the Indian woman Gwennie and the handsome young Palmer.<br />Though at first the stilted dialogue and needlessly violent situations rouse skepticism, Jensen's careful attention to historical and geographical detail and ability to create interesting, colorful characters manage to hold the interest. The plot gathers steam and compels the reader toward the harrowing climax. Surprisingly for a novel that is advertised as a masterpiece of gay erotica, there are few actual sex scenes, a pity as the very first explicit encounter between Chapman and McQuay is a masterpiece. It occurs in a bathtub immediately after the two men have shot, gutted and cleaned an elk, all described in gory detail, and the juxtaposition of bloody death with wet, steamy sex creates a uniquely masculine and intensely erotic chapter. A pity Jensen could not have written more scenes like this and less of the rather offensive episodes involving both the Native American woman and Samantha, the pathetic daughter of a settler, who views marriage with the unwilling Chapman as her possible ticket to freedom. Both these portrayals are marred by stereotyping and unsuccessful attempts at dialect.<br />All in all, &quot;Frontiers&quot; is adequate and even absorbing entertainment. It would make a good made-for-TV movie on one of the more permissive cable channels, though it's doubtful that a screen version will be forthcoming anytime soon.ersion will be forthcoming anytime soon.	2001-03-19
US	51231665	R2WP0XF671RMXA	0385421745	758777493	The American Opera Singer: The lives & adventures of America's great singers in opera & concert from 1825 to the present	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Comprehensive and opinionated	Peter G. Davis' definition of &quot;American&quot; in this volume is quite broad, encompassing singers born abroad who made a significant contribution to the American operatic scene, as well as native-born artists who, for one reason or another, spent much of their artistic lives overseas. Thus, he discusses singers as diverse as Callas and Sills, Astrid Varnay and Helen Traubel, Claire Watson and Roland Hayes. With singers whose most significant career contributions took place outside the U.S., such as Callas and Varnay, Mr. Davis takes pains to show what role their American years and appearances played in their artistic lives.<br />The scope and detail of the book is its strength, particularly the early chapters, which deal with many singers about whom detailed information would be difficult to obtain elsewhere. I particularly appreciated the chapter detailing the tortuous progress of the African-American opera singer in the American musical landscape.<br />Mr. Davis is forthright and uncompromising in his opinions, which is the cause of the low ratings this book has received from reviewers on this site whose favorite singers have been singled out for rough treatment. What these fans seem not to have noticed is his even-handedness, even with those he criticizes. I happen to agree, for example, that Leontyne Price probably made a more significant contribution to the operatic art on recordings than in live performance. If one can get beyond knee-jerk reactions to this or that assessment, however, there is much of value here. His writing style is polished without being pretentious. This is a book that should be read in tandem with John Dizikes' Opera in America for a full portrait of this art form since its inception in the United States.	2000-12-07
US	51231665	R2VJRVJYO2BNYE	1555835295	207060180	Clone: The Life and Legacy of Al Parker, Gay Superstar	Books	2	21	23	N	Y	Surprisingly dull	The 1970s were a time of sexual freedom and optimism for the gay male community in the United States. Having broken out and found a sense of identity and pride in the wake of Stonewall, gay men celebrated their sexuality, many to excess, in a brief explosion of gleeful hedonism before the scourge of AIDS swept all before it.<br />Roger Edmonson, having profiled an icon of this lost era, Casey Donovan, with fair success, attempts the same with another star of gay male pornography from the same period, Drew Okun, or Al Parker. This book is not up to the standard of that earlier effort, partly because, when it comes right down to it, Drew Okun led a remarkably humdrum life for a porn star. Unlike Donovan, who traveled a lot, acted on stage, and knew famous people, Okun seems to have been basically a homebody, quite content to live with his longtime companion Richard Cole (who also acted in porn films with Okun under the name Steve Taylor, a fact which Edmonson oddly forgets to note) on the California coast and run his production company, Surge Studios.<br />Edmonson does not help his cause by superficial writing and research. Interesting facts about Okun/Parker's life are mentioned almost in passing and never explored in depth, or even mentioned again. One would like to know more, for example, about Okun's estrangements from his elder sister and from Steve Scott, who directed some of his best films, but revelations are not forthcoming in this rather slim volume, which spends a lot of time describing Parker's films which are, for the most part, readily available and better seen for oneself anyway. Even the photographs included are disappointing. In short, this volume succeeds neither as serious biography nor as guilty pleasure.	2000-12-01
US	51231665	R2BE1J71AFI2AT	0375402446	506435469	Greek Fire: The Story of Maria Callas and Aristotle Onassis	Books	4	29	32	N	Y	Yet another Callas book--but it's good	The respected Greek-American journalist and biographer Nicholas Gage has written an exhaustive chronicle of perhaps the most sensational episode in Maria Callas' sensational life--her stormy and ultimately tragic involvement with Aristotle Onassis, the Greek shipping magnate.<br />The tale of Callas' life and art, of course, has been told and retold in many volumes of varying worth, but biographically Mr. Gage's carefully researched and verified effort cannot fail to impress. Due to his dual subjects, his chronology largely limits itself to the last two decades of Callas' life (she became seriously involved with Onassis in 1959), but within this time frame he has come up with some startling new revelations, including the astonishing assertion (supported by convincing evidence) that Callas gave birth to a son by Onassis in 1960. The baby died the same day it was born, and this tragic event affected the entire rest of their relationship. There is a reverent, almost mystical tone in Gage's writing about the pair, a feeling that their romance was fated to happen and should have turned out much more happily than it did. This is backed up by the opinions of numerous people close to the couple that Onassis' impulsive pursuit of and marriage to Jacqueline Kennedy was the greatest mistake of his life.<br />Undoubtedly Onassis and Callas come vividly to life in these pages as people, warts and all. About Callas the musician Gage is less convincing. Although he speaks denigratingly about the false stories of the diva that have been uncritically perpetuated by biographers copying from each other, Gage himself does the same on occasion. For example, he repeats the standard tale of the January 1958 Rome Opera &quot;walkout,&quot; that Callas was voiceless and struggling against hecklers from the very start of the performance. In fact, as Michael Scott has pointed out, a broadcast tape is readily available of the performance which belies both these contentions. Overall, too, Callas, even with her voice in decline, remained much more interested in singing after she met Onassis than the rather indolent portrait that emerges from these pages would indicate. Post-1960 there were several complete opera recordings, and numerous collections of arias released on disc, and these are just the commercial studio efforts.<br />Still, Callas the artist has been well-served in much other writing, notably that of John Ardoin. Gage's book corrects many more errors than it perpetuates. It is obligatory reading for any fan and, for that matter, anyone who wishes to know more about this eternally glamorous and fascinating pair.s, even with her voice in decline, remained much more interested in singing after she met Onassis than the rather indolent portrait that emerges from these pages would indicate. Post-1960 there were several complete opera recordings, and numerous collections of arias released on disc, and these are just the commercial studio efforts.<br />Still, Callas the artist has been well-served in much other writing, notably that of John Ardoin. Gage's book corrects many more errors than it perpetuates. It is obligatory reading for any fan and, for that matter, anyone who wishes to know more about this eternally glamorous and fascinating pair.	2000-11-20
US	51231665	R2QVHNOYAGSOQ4	1555533191	119846114	The Exotic In Western Music	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A useful and provocative guide	Jonathan Bellman has collected an interesting set of essays on the &quot;exotic&quot; in Western art music. One of the first points made is  that what is perceived as exotic by modern Western concertgoers not only  means so-called foreign evocations, such as Hungarian, Spanish, Middle  Eastern and Far Eastern music, but also encompasses such areas as jazz and  Native American music. There are nods to the growing area of gender studies  as they relate to music, such as in the opening essay, on &quot;The Exotic,  the Erotic, and the Feminine.&quot; In such a collection, naturally the  individual chapters vary in clarity of writing style and quality of ideas,  but overall this is an impressively written and consistently interesting  set of essays.	2000-08-29
US	51231665	RFUJF8O813EAU	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	International Tragedy	&quot;The Married Man&quot; is the saga of Austin, an expatriate American writer in Paris (obviously modeled on the author) and his ultimately tragic relationship with a young, married Frenchman, Julien.<br />The story sweeps  through diverse locales, Paris, Providence (Rhode Island), Venice, Key West  and Morocco among them, with assured ease and a real sense of place.  White's descriptive and evocative powers are fully in evidence as a  multitude of sharply drawn characters pass through the lovers' lives.  Ultimately, though, the focus is on the inevitable death of Julien from  AIDS. What starts as a drawing-room comedy gathers a harrowing emotional  power as the younger man steadily sickens, and finally dies in the deserts  of Africa. White's most impressive achievement is his success at portraying  the helplessness of the human spirit in the face of snowballing  catastrophe. No tender farewells, no fine speeches here--their final hours  together find Austin desperately trying to get a raging, incontinent Julien  to medical aid that comes too little, too late.<br />&quot;The Married  Man&quot; is a fine and haunting narrative.	2000-06-21
US	51231665	RLIX47GJSCW0D	0822364255	678938430	Readin' Country Music: Steel Guitars, Opry Stars, and Honky Tonk Bars (The South Atlantic Quarterly Winter 1995, Vol 94 No 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A valuable study of a popular subject	This is a very useful collection of essays on a topic that has seen a major increase in scholarly interest. I found the articles on Garth Brooks, Dolly Parton and the images of women in country music to be especially  interesting. There are contributions by most of the current ranking  scholars in the field.	1999-08-11
