US	51233834	R1RTXYC65KCBU8	0393324818	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	1	1	N	N	About so much more than baseball!	Don't judge a book by its cover.  Ostensibly the title and cover of this book would lead you to conclude that this book is all about baseball.  It isn't.  When I was handed this book I was expecting a dreary George Will book about the symmetry of motion in baseball or how baseball is the smart man's sport.  My expectations were very low.  The first few pages quickly put that concern to rest.  This is a page-turner that you will not put down. <br /> <br />Have you ever wondered how the Oakland A's with a team that looks so unlike other major league teams can be a consistent winner?  The A's General Manager Billy Beane found market inefficiencies and effectively exploited them.  He recognized that other teams religiously used subjective measures and the wrong statistical measures in evaluating a player's worth to the team.  Billy Beane found the right measures.  And, he recognized that the measures being used by every other team inflated player's salaries not because they contributed to the team's bottom line but because they looked the part or their stats looked good on paper.  He looked for talent where others were simply not looking and he found it.  This allowed him to field a winning team for far less than others. <br /> <br />He developed a strategy to exploit the system by seeking out players not deemed worthy by conventional measures.  For instance, short stocky players did not fit the image of a baseball player.  Because of their smaller strike zone they walk more frequently, meaning they get on base more often.  While other teams were looking at batting average or RBIs, Billy Beane was using statistical measure such as on-base percentage to measure a player's contribution to a winning.  He focused on what's important. <br /> <br />Billy Beane recognized that using the traditional measures of a play's worth and the scout's reliance upon subject measures didn't match up with what really matter to winning.  He leveraged this market inefficiency to build a winning team year in and year out.  The key is in proper valuation as it relates to measuring what directly contributes to your bottom line or, in the case of the A's, winning.  <br />	2005-09-15
US	51233834	R342PS61RE8L81	0736909893	708521568	Letters Between a Catholic and an Evangelical	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Informative	Fr. Waiss and Pastor McCarthy have produced a book that is thoroughly informative about the differences between Catholics and Evangelicals.  Their collegial debates on issues such as scripture and tradition, salvation, transubstantiation, intercession, and Mary occurred through the exchange of letters and conversations and were reproduced for this book.  The discourse is conducted in a respectful, non-scorched earth manner.  Their debate remains objective and respectful throughout while spelling out the differences between the two religions.  These men are obviously friends who have had extensive debates about their respectively faiths and deeply held convictions.   <br /> <br />The only downside to the book is its format.  The reproduction of their letter exchanges and conversations increases the length of the book, filling pages with pretty useless details about their personal relationship with each other and their respective lives. <br />	2005-08-26
US	51233834	R1RP3FBT57YY71	0670033855	260223920	Whose Bible Is It? A History of the Scriptures Through the Ages	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Disappointing	Mr. Pelikan is a renowned expert on this subject.  He is erudite and his words are chosen with an eye towards accuracy that is rarely seen today.  Maybe that's my dilemma with this work.  Mr. Pelikan's gentle style lacks a firmness and directness that I typically appreciate.  He writes so subtlety that I find it difficult to explain what this book was about and what its implications are except on the most general of terms.  Several times in the course of reading this book, I had to re-read a passage multiple times to grasp what his point was.  It can be argued that I may be obtuse or lack knowledge in this subject.  And while that may be true, I was looking for something more from the author and he didn't deliver the goods.  I wanted to hear from Mr. Pelikan the \\"So What?\\" or his take on the significance of something I invested my time into.	2005-08-25
US	51233834	R3G98PTMV57ZYJ	0060534249	223377898	To Rule the Waves: How the British Navy Shaped the Modern World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Power and Empire on the High Seas	Arthur Herman's effort here is most impressive.  He captures the complete Royal Navy's history from its most humble, if not dastardly, beginnings as privateers struggling for their very existence against the then world superpower, the Spanish, to its evolution as worldwide hegemonic force that supported a global empire, and to its eventual decline after World War II.  The British Empire was built and sustained by the Royal Navy.  Herman sustains this narrative from its start in the Elizabethan age to the present with unparalleled ability to capture and present the details with alacrity and conciseness.  He never leaves the reader wondering what the point was or lost in a maze of pointless historical details.   <br /> <br />Ultimately, Herman shows that though the Pax Britannia has waned, its influence has not been lost.  America as its geopolitical successor has presided over the Pax American.  In this day and age of the Global War on Terrorism where the US is locked in a land battle in Iraq and Afghanistan, there are lessons to be learned from the Royal Navy.  The broad strategic goals of the US need to be supported by a strong and modern blue ocean Navy.  Herman links a strong Navy with a robust geopolitical strength and ultimately the ability to enforce a nation's will anywhere on the globe.   <br /> <br />In 2006 the US Navy plans on buying only four warships and to drop its aircraft carrier fleet from twelve to eleven, pointing to a shift in resources away from the Navy to its brethren in arms on the ground.  While many argue that transformation will offset reductions to the size of the US Navy force, it should not be forgotten that quantity does have a quality all its own.  It seems that this may be the price we will pay to conduct land operations in Iraq.  But it may be price to high to sustain Pax Americana.  As Herman pointed out in the last chapter, the Royal Navy was cut to sustain British Army obligations to NATO after World War II.  It never recovered and neither did Britain as a world power.  <br />	2005-08-14
US	51233834	R3WQSNLM9INAP	0385721668	317959862	The Mind and the Market: Capitalism in Western Thought	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Incredible!	The world of capitalism is presented to us through the eyes of the greatest European thinkers.  Muller examines the relationship between the individual and the state though the prism of the marketplace tapping into the writings from thinkers such as Adam Smith, Marx, Voltaire, Schumpeter and Hayek.  The depth and breath of this economic treatise on the marketplace presents perspectives from all sides of the political spectrum while taking the time and care to place that thinker's perspective within its proper historical context.   <br /> <br />The thinkers that are tapped into come from a very broad swath of history.  Their perspectives trace how western civilization left the feudal period where commerce and finance where frowned upon as immoral or dirty and how Europe eventually developed market-based institutions that we are so familiar with today.  This book clearly shows how thinking men viewed the development of markets and how societies dealt with the social and moral benefits and costs of markets.  Muller also describes how different societies in different time periods came to different conclusions on how a market should be regulated and managed as a result of the efforts of these great thinkers.   <br /> <br />The way we operate today is linked inextricably to the past.  Market-based societies are a product of western European history and culture.  The answer to why things are like today can be found in the past and Mueller provides the key.    <br />	2005-08-11
US	51233834	R3QIRY6AABRV7J	0151007209	747207144	Aristotle's Children: How Christians, Muslims, and Jews Rediscovered Ancient Wisdom and Illuminated the Dark Ages	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Philosopher	The works of Aristotle were first suppressed and then lost for centuries in Western Europe after the fall of the Roman world.  The works of Aristotle were suppressed because of their emphasis on reason and logic that ran contrary to the principles of faith.  These important writings were preserved and commented upon by Islamic theologians only to fall back into the hands of Christendom in 12th century Spain. <br /> <br />Rubenstein explains in the clearest and most succinct terms how the introduction of Aristotelian concepts reinvigorated theological thought in the late Middle Age and early Renaissance.  The Scholastics argued that the gap between reason and faith could be bridged.  The debate among those who supported this position such as Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventure were often at loggerheads with the Catholic Church and its hegemony over medieval culture.  Concepts such as the Double Truth exemplified the efforts of these great thinkers to link reason and faith. <br /> <br />Later thinkers were to show that Aristotelian notions were not scientific.  And to link faith and reason is illogical.  For example, Thomas Hobbs and Martin Luther disparaged Aristotle's works leading the way to our modern separation of faith (as subjective) and reason (as objective). <br /> <br />Rubenstein is immensely readable and he provides a most persuasive explanation of how the re-discovery of Aristotle's works changed the modern world. <br />	2005-07-04
US	51233834	R3K79HAS4KF8EI	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A statement of the obvious.	I agree with the reviews that call this is a clear and concise book that presents complex thoughts in a uncomplicated and straightforward style.  What I would say that differs from previous reviews is that nothing in this book is exactly new or earth shattering.  The conclusions presented on various topics ranging from abortion in Romania to the selection of a name and a life outcome makes for provocative and scintillating reading, but it is nothing new.  The authors have taken a glib approach and have unabashedly generated a buzz about their smoothness.  It is a short if somewhat interesting read that I would recommend.	2005-06-30
US	51233834	R2ILGMYBW712OF	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	2	13	16	N	N	A Feel-Good, Self-Help Book	There is plenty of hype surrounding this book in some Christian communities.  The book is the \\"in\\" Christian thing to read.  My small group decided to use this book for our studies.  I had tried to read this book once before and didn't complete it.  So I found myself reading a book that I had put down once before because of the author's writing style and lack of attention to detail. <br /> <br />Rick Warren has written a feel-good, self-help book for Christians.  That's the rub.  Like most books in the secular feel-good, self-help genre, the book appears to have been touched by Madison Avenue marketing containing all the requisite product extensions and dumbed down writing you'd expect.  References appear throughout the book inviting the reader to acquire other items from Rick Warren ostensibly to further your Christian walk.  Because the book was written at the 8th grade level with a repetitious and an overly simplistic style it is tedious to work through the very short chapters. <br /> <br />The book is rife with flaws.  Rick Warren rarely quotes from the Bible comfortably paraphrasing his references from about fifteen different versions of the Bible.  I find this to be flippant and downright dangerous.  More importantly, there is hardly a reference to the Holy Spirit and Its centrality to Christianity.  But this is typical of the author's tendency to over-generalize and be careless with the details.  <br /> <br />While I am certain Rick Warren's heart is in the right place, Christians should take care reading this.  With that said, the actual message of the book is positive and worth applying to your daily life.  If you can overlook the book's shortfalls, there is a meaningful message contained within. <br />	2005-05-01
US	51233834	RM3P17FUZXNE2	0767917464	116546695	Bringing Tuscany Home: Sensuous Style From the Heart of Italy	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Stuff of Dreams	Frances Mayes' latest effort is impressive showing how her and her husband have achieved the good life.  Bringing Tuscany Home: Sensuous Style From the Heart of Italy is magnificently illustrated.  Readers of her past books will appreciate the full visual effect of what she fell in love with in Italy and how this book captures the evolution of her and her husband's life in both Tuscany and California.  This book literally brings home Italy to you in so many ways whether that be Frances Mayes' musings about Tuscan life or her husband's cooking.  The recipes are not all from Tuscany, but they are interesting nonetheless.  This most recent effort provides plenty of fodder for dreams.  On a more practical level, most of us will never experience the complete immersion and utter indulgence of her lifestyle simply because of the cost.  But, we can dream.	2005-02-25
US	51233834	R3EVJ1LSN6H2QP	1400042364	523547957	The Roads to Modernity: The British, French, and American Enlightenments	Books	5	26	33	N	N	The American Concept as an Excpetional Ideal	Leveraging the concept of \\"American Exceptionalism\\" coined by de Tocqueville in Democracy in America, Lipset noted that exceptional in this sense is to be interpreted as qualitatively different from all other countries.  The concept of American Exceptionalism as expressed by Lipset has broad academic acceptance and credibility.  While there are those who might challenge this concept, it is fair to say that Americans continue to see themselves as different or unique from the rest of the world.  This is not to say that America is better than the rest of the world, but that America is what it is because of its unique balance of public and private interests governed by constitutional ideals that are focused on personal and economic freedom.    It is through the lens of American Exceptionalism that we can best comprehend what Himmelfarb has put forward in The Roads to Modernity.  Her comparison of the French, British and American Enlightenments yields some interesting differences providing greater context to the concept of American Exceptionalism.  Himmelfarb completes this comparison with alacrity and evenhandedness.  She does not end up being an apologist for the neo-conservative movement even though her eye is on present-day politics nor is this book a paean to Libertarians.  On some level it is fair to criticize her for lightly brushing aside the Scottish Enlightenment and all but ignoring the Italian Renaissance as well as great Enlightenment thinkers outside of France, Britain and America.  However, her point about the uniqueness of the American Enlightenment might have been lost if the comparison went to far a field intellectually.    Her main point is that the American Enlightenment's influence is alive and vibrant in American political discourse even today while the influence of the French and British Enlightenments are all but footnotes to the current political discourse of those nations.  She opens herself to criticism from the political left because she espouses the centrality of religion to the success and endurance of American civic and political institutions, is unwilling to de-moralize political economy, and recognizes the importance of the individual and the social virtues.  Many today forget that religion was viewed as key to the triumph of our democratic experiment by our Founding Fathers.  Those who seemingly forget or conveniently brush over this fact only mention the two of the Founding Fathers who were deists (Franklin and Jefferson).    I am in full agreement with Himmelfarb that America was exceptional at its founding and remains so even today.  Himmelfarb deftly succeeds in defining these qualitative differences.   America today is a paradox to Europeans and many on the American left who can not seem to come to terms with the American focus and reliance on individuality, capitalism, and religion.	2005-02-20
US	51233834	R2ZYS2JIC1EJO3	0393319792	414513282	The Hundred Days (Vol. Book 19)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Masterfully Told  Adventure	Patrick O'Brian's capacity to carry off nineteen installments in the Aubrey/Maturin series is nothing short of astonishing.  There is no faulting O'Brian's ability to craft a richly detailed and captivating tale combined seamlessly with subtle plot twists and turns.  The Napoleonic wars and the escape of Napoleon from Elba provide the backdrop to this incredible tale filled with action and political intrigue that completely captives the reader.    The personalities of the families, friends, and enemies left ashore by Aubrey and Mautrin permeate their lives at sea.   If not considered in this light, the death of Mautrin's wife, Diana, would be a meaningless detail.  This is also what allows the reader to become intimate with Aubrey and Mautrin, almost as if they are old friends.  O'Brian is never callow or derivative.  You should not expect these sea-going tales to be filled with swashbuckling adventure of which the singular point is action.    This nineteenth  installment takes you across the Mediterranean and the Adriatic, and into combat against the French navy.  It also takes you ashore into North Africa to intercept caravans carrying gold.  This gold is intended for Muslin mercenaries who are disposed to support Napoleon.  This is an outstanding installment to the series and most definitely can stand on its own.	2005-01-22
US	51233834	R25BRMMAOJEG8G	0312233442	223937094	Friedrich Hayek: A Biography	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hayek: The Anti-Fabian	Until nearly the end of the 20th century, Friedrich Hayek seemed to be destined to be ignored and to remain in the backdrop of economic, political and philosophical history.  Keynesian economics ruled, with its reliance upon state control of the levers of the economy.  Hayek's vision of a renewed classical liberalism with free markets and individualism cut against the conventional intellectual wisdom of his day.  Despite that, Hayek was convinced that total systems such as socialism or communism would lead to tyranny.  Hayek argued that the Keynesian viewpoint, because of its reliance upon state controls, was destined to limit individual's liberty. <br /> <br />Hayek believed that there was an inevitable conflict between socialism and freedom.  He argued passionately, and at times he was a solitary voice, for freedom and liberty.  Today with the collapse of communism and the resurgence of free markets across the globe, Hayek's ideas have gained new prominence.  Hayek's intellectual contributions to our world in terms of political science, philosophy, and economics can not be underestimated. <br /> <br />The author, Alan Ebenstein, holds a Ph.D. in economics.  His account of Hayek's life is illuminating, not covering just his economic and philosophical contributions.  Ebenstein covers Hayek's life from the early years and his flirtations with Fabianism (the advancement of socialist ideas through gradual means and through the insertion of its ideas into intellectual circles of influence) through to his legacy as a visionary thinker.  Ebenstein's biography of Hayek's life appears to be fair and balanced on the whole.  Since the author is a trained economist, you can see the benefit of his background throughout the biography without the dulling effects many associate with the dismal science.  If you want to learn more about Hayek the man and his ideas, this is an ideal and recommended book. <br />	2005-01-02
US	51233834	R2OL3ILI8R4B9D	0393317048	452962366	The Yellow Admiral (Vol. Book 18)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Anoter 5-Star Effort	The most important aspects of this story takes place on dry land in England.  Patrick O'Brien paints the tapestry of 19th century rural life in terms that makes it relevant to the story and breathes life into it that it becomes personalized and completely relevant.  It also is this time ashore that makes the adventures at sea so much more interesting for Jack and Stephen.  It is the complexity of the characters dealing with their successes and trials at home which make the two main characters seem that much more human.  Developing characters that are seemingly real is what Patrick O'Brien has mastered like no other and it is what has kept me coming back to his books (18 times so far). <br /> <br />Back ashore in England, Stephen is broke and Jack is once again an impecunious landowner.  Jack's fortune is tied up in lawsuits related to his actions off West Africa suppressing the slave trade.  To make matters worse (or more interesting), Jack's marriage is on the rocks as a result of Sophie's mother finding evidence of Jack's past infidelity.  At the Admiralty, Jack's prospects are dimmed by his actions as a Member of Parliament and his opposition to the enclosure of a commons near his estate.  As a side note, Patrick O'Brien clearly understands and has the ability to describe the political and economic aspects of enclosing a commons.  He weaves this into the story without technical jargon and in an interesting manner.  Even at sea, Jack has trouble. He captures a French privateer laden with gold and ivory, but the Admiralty believes that he ignored signals for personal gain.  Troubles mount for Jack and his fear of being `yellowed' seems that it might become a reality. <br /> <br />When all seems lost for Jack, Stephen returns from a mission in France and back to England with forgiveness from Sophie and a reprieve for his career in the form of a possible mission to secure Chilean independence.  This is especially important because the war has ended, further dimming prospects for his chance for an Admiral's flag.  By the book's end, both Jack and Stephen see their personal fortunes somewhat or completely restored.  And just as Jack is looking forward to this reprieve for his career, Jack is ordered to Gibraltar because Napoleon has escaped from Elba. <br />	2005-01-01
US	51233834	R6K8F4DZHV3VD	0823054802	966988597	Tuscan Elements (Decor Best-Sellers)	Books	4	54	56	N	N	Tuscan Style	I normally don't buy tabletop table books because I don't feel that they represent a value or add much to my understanding of a subject.  Tabletop books full of incredible pictures just do not fully capture my imagination or attention.  Consequently, most tabletop books get a cursory flipping through before I put them down. <br /> <br />However, `Tuscan Elements' is more than a book of pretty pictures and it is worth more than just a cursory flipping through.  The author, Alexandra Black, has organized her effort to capture the elements of Tuscany.  The four elements are stone, wood, earth, and water.  These four elements are expressed in the homes, furniture, terracotta, and ponds, respectively, of Tuscany.  To stand alongside the pictures of these four elements, Ms. Black takes the time to build a supporting story from a historical and literary point of view.  Quoting D.H. Lawrence and Pliny the Younger, the story of how these elements have been woven into the ebb and flow of Tuscan life since before the Roman Empire emerges with an impressive clarity and vividness. <br /> <br />As a lover of Tuscany I am drawn to images of Tuscany and its way of life.  The seductive beauty of the Tuscan landscape and the romance of the Tuscan lifestyle as expressed in the prose and images of this tabletop book is the stuff of dreams.  This tabletop book provided me the fodder for those dreams and never once disappointed me.   <br />	2004-12-24
US	51233834	R2O8BTI5ISUOER	0393314596	353156139	The Commodore (Vol. Book 17)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	14	19	N	N	O'Brian's Exceptionaly Imagined Seagoing Tale Continues	After finishing this seventeenth installation in the Aubrey/Maturin series, I found myself wishing that there were still another seventeen novels to read.  Patrick O'Brien's weaves a wonderful tale - one so vivid and magical that it is so very difficult to put any of the irresistible Aubrey/Maturin novels down.  The seagoing tale that Patrick O'Brien has crafted is filled with interesting characters and a consistently compelling story-line.  It is also replete with accurate historical detail and fully captures the political intrigue of the British Navy's involvement in the Napoleonic wars of the nineteenth-century. <br /> <br />Even though Commodore Aubrey's mission is to suppress the slave trade off the west coast of Africa and later onto a secret mission on the Irish coast to prevent a French invasion, `The Commodore' is not filled with seagoing adventure.  In fact, the main components of the tale take place ashore.  Maturin and Aubrey find themselves home after a long and successful adventure.  While Lucky Jack is promoted to Commodore of the First Class, not all is well at home.  Both he and his wife suspect the other of infidelity.  Dianne has run away leaving Stephen's autistic child with the widow Clarissa Oakes.  Political intrigue forces Stephen to slip some of his fortune and his child to Spain.   <br /> <br />At sea, Stephen battles his addition to coca leaves and a severe bout with Yellow Fever.  Commodore Aubrey's leadership and seamanship are tested by two Captains under his command.  One is more interested in polished brass and drives his crew hard with the whip.  The other is a sodomite, whose favoritism to those young men among his crew that he beds disrupts discipline and the fighting efficacy of his vessel. <br /> <br />This is one of the more magnificent books in the series and I heartily recommend it, as I do with the rest of the books in the Aubrey/Maturin series.   <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
US	51233834	R7EP3NW5Q7OOM	0971376085	364968354	Jesus-God or the Son of God? A Comparison of the Arguments	Books	3	24	62	N	N	Heads up.	The official Amazon review does not mention that the author is a Jehovah's Witness.  In light of the material being covered that is a significant omission from the review.  Additionally, the author is trained as an engineer and has no advanced degrees in theology, philosophy or seminary.	2004-12-13
US	51233834	RPT6HF40BY5VH	0156013150	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Struggle to Define Christianity during the Last Days of Rome	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Defining the Orthodoxy	The doctrinal debate over Christ's divinity roared throughout Constantine's Roman Empire.  Two sects were locked in a pitched and sometimes violent struggle to define the divinity of Christ.  To varying degrees the Arians of the Eastern Empire believed that Christ and God were essentially similar but that They were not equal or the same.  Followers of Athanasius argued forcefully for Christ's full divinity.   <br /> <br />Compromise on this point of Christ's divinity was ostensibly impossible to attain.  In response, Constantine, in varying degrees, cajoled and encouraged his bishops to reach an accord, believing that a religious heterodoxy was not in the best interest of the Roman Empire or Christianity.  Constantine, while not impartial in this struggle, did not impose his will by decree.  The bishops themselves believed that they were in a locked battle and did not always turn the other cheek.  This debate did not get resolved during Constantine's life.  It was not resolved until Theodosius became emperor and imposed orthodoxy across the Empire.  The Nicene faith or creed was a result of this struggle of ideas. <br /> <br />Rubenstein is not a professor of religion, so this is not a book on theology.  More to the point, he is American Jew and a professor of Conflict Resolution and Public Affairs at George Mason University.  Rubenstein is passionate about this subject and as a result his writing is refreshing and reflects his deep interest without ever sounding pedantic.  He lays out the debate and lets history tell the story without sacrificing objectivity.  I highly recommend this book. <br />	2004-11-20
US	51233834	R2K120FNQELDHA	0345406044	243579536	In the Beginning: A New Interpretation of Genesis	Books	2	38	50	N	N	Genesis - New Possibilities	This is a worthwhile and interesting read particularly if you are interested in sorting out the stories found in Genesis.  Karen Armstrong is a clear, concise writer whose prose flows smoothly across the pages.  I enjoyed reading this rather short book and I found that her interpretation of Genesis can be broken down into two sections.  I call them the Bible scholar section and the psychologist section.  I found the first section far more interesting and consequential.  <br /> <br />The first section is new, compelling, and academically oriented.  In this first section, her explanation and interpretation of the Creation and the Garden of Eden stories offer a surprisingly fresh glimpse into each biblical tale.  In general, skeptics of the Bible seem to have the most difficulty accepting the Creation and Garden of Eden stories.  Her interpretation offers new possibilities for understanding these tales.  <br /> <br />The second section is literally a retelling of the remaining Genesis stories without the sound pedagogical focus.  She switches roles from a Bible scholar to pop-psychologist.  In this role, she uses the remaining pages of this short book to retell the remaining Genesis stories with a generous portion of the time spent laying out the psychological angst of these early Biblical families.  Unlike the first section, this is not at all new and compelling. <br />	2004-10-11
US	51233834	R1WFSTWA2GZRWB	0060097728	508502036	Doubt: A History: The Great Doubters and Their Legacy of Innovation from Socrates and Jesus to Thomas Jefferson and Emily Dickinson	Books	4	42	53	N	N	An Impressive Work Spanning 2,000 Years of History	I am not a doubter and have a difficult time understanding how one cannot have faith.  But I accept that as a reasonable position.  I have always been an avid student of philosophy and theology.  I think that there is great value in understanding the perspectives of those with doubt and without faith and how \\"doubters\\" have effected societal and political development.  Ms. Hecht takes us on an astounding 2,000-year journey across history and introduces us to the preeminent thinkers in the history of doubt from every continent.  It is a most impressive and immensely readable journey.  It is important to note that this journey is not for the novice.  If you don't have a background in Greek philosophical and Christian theological writings, this may be a challenging read even though Ms. Hecht makes this information very accessible and readable.	2004-09-13
US	51233834	RCLSIYTS1BMKH	1881273628	277335936	The Five Love Languages Gift Edition: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Psycho-babble Free Zone	I whole heartedly recommend this book to anyone who is trying to maintain, improve, or save a marriage or relationship.  The book is clearly and straightforwardly written in English.  It gets to the point without endless or tiring psycho-babble.  Mr. Chapman uses realistic and detailed examples to illustrate his points.  <br />The reason relationships thrive or fail according to the author is that the people speak and hear in five different love languages.  These languages are quality time, words of affirmation, gifts, acts of service, and physical touch.  Simply, people are able to love if they are speaking the love language heard by their partner.  Learning to understand and speak your partner's love language is simple and Mr. Chapman helps gets you their.<br />Get this book - you will not regret it.	2004-02-28
US	51233834	R1BA7JAGGDF53G	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Over hyped thriller.	The Da Vinci Code is a fast paced, fun thriller that was most definitely designed for the silver screen.  It is crystal clear that Dan Brown seemed to have movie in mind as he wrote the book.  Marked by very short chapter lengths of 1-5 pages, the story moves out quickly and seems ready made for movie adaptation.  I did find the short chapters to be tiresome.  The plotline, putting aside the unique angle of the Holy Grail, is cookie cutter.  Character development is one-dimensional and predictable.<br />It is worth saying that there is a lot of hype about this book because the tale of the Holy Grail was weaved into it.  There is nothing new or earth shattering in what the author presents on the Holy Grail, Knights Templar, or Mary Magdalene.  Dan Brown breaks no new ground on the religious and historical fronts.  But he does a fair job of mining existing works on the Holy Grail in producing this book.<br />There are those in Christian circles who are concerned with this book because it purports that Jesus married Mary Magdalene and produced offspring (and that there are direct descendants living among us even today) among the many heretical topics presented in the book.  Those in certain Christian circles are worried that the many readers who are not familiar with Grail mythology might question their faith as a result of being exposed to these ideas.  These ideas are nothing new.  Why try to run away from them or discourage others to not read it?  My retort is simple.  If ideas contrary to your beliefs or understanding of your faith's pillars threaten your faith, you may not have a true faith.	2004-02-09
US	51233834	R3M1FM0IW6HZF2	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great read!	Desolation Island was the most enjoyable book of the O'Brian series that I have read to date.  I think that after reading the four previous books, I am better aquatinted with the jargon unique to British sailors of the early 1800s.  This better understanding is directly linked to the more pleasurable experience I had with this book.  Additionally, I am far better acquainted with the main characters.  My better understanding of these characters so richly animated by O'Brian's prose made this story so enjoyable.  O'Brian's character development is unsurpassed.<br />In short, Lucky Jack and Stephen are faced with seemingly insurmountable challenges.  The transport of prisoners, deadly disease, spies, armed conflict, a collision with an iceberg, to a near mutiny are among the challenges faced by our heroes face as they sail towards Botany Bay to rescue no other than Governor Bligh.  <br />This is a first rate read.  You will find this very hard to put down once you crack it open.	2004-02-04
US	51233834	R2APKG8Q94MHWD	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Superb nautical tale.	The Mauritius Command is a first rate piece of historical fiction.  Patrick O'Brian deftly weaves this swashbuckling nautical tale into the historical account of the British retaking the Mauritius Islands. Lucky Jack Aubrey, with a little help from Stephen Maturin, becomes a Commodore and leads his squadron of ships into battle with the French.  <br />A new father, Jack Aubrey leaves behind his wife to venture out to the Indian Ocean.  His wife, Sophie, lost her dowry and story begins with Jack hurting for money.  So the opportunity to have command and be back on full pay is most welcome.  Commodore Aubrey's command is complicated by the personalities of his subordinate commanders.  Maturin comes out of the closet and works his espionage in the open.<br />With victory just within his grasp, Admiral Bertie arrives to take command and the credit away from Jack.  Despite that setback, Lucky Jack stills finishes on top.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2004-01-22
US	51233834	R3HEHE9Y6NWL8B	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A unique exploration of a lost gospel	This is the most compelling and unique of all of Elaine Pagel's books.   This work is unique and compelling in the sense that the author offers us a very rare glimpse inside her personal and religious life.  Her experience with religion as a child and later as a mother coping with the death of a child does much to put this Gospel of St. Thomas into context.  You can appreciate her insights into to this long lost gospel and the journey that got her to these insights that much more as a result.  <br />We hear so much about the lost gospels and the secret teachings that are tucked away in these documents.  If you are interested in learning more about what is in those secret teachings and why those teachings never became part of the orthodoxy.  Whether this orthodoxy is the New Testament or the teachings of Catholicism, her deft handling and explanation of the historical account of the establishment of what teachings were catholic and acceptable and what teachings were heresies and unacceptable is enlightening.  I strongly recommend this book, especially if you are they type who likes to ask why.	2004-01-12
US	51233834	R1U8CCD2M4WG8E	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Awe inspiring sea adventure!	H.M.S. Surprise is an extraordinary sea going adventure.<br />Patrick O'Brien's masterful character development of Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin continues.  In this adventure, we see our heroes in action in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans.  We also gain a closer glimpse of their unique friendship as well as their personalities and desires.  These glimpses can only be seen as these men go to sea and face the inevitable hardship of life during war.<br />In short we see both Lucky Jack Aubrey and Dr. Maturin fall in love.  Of course both fall for very different types of ladies, and that reveals much about both men.  Lucky Jack falls for a respectable woman with a dowry that he cannot marry because he is in debt and faces debtor's prison.  Dr. Maturin's love is unrequited for a widow who treats him cruelly.<br />We see Dr. Maturin imprisoned as a spy and Captain Aubrey's expected successful rescue.  The backdrop for the conclusion is the British colonies in India.  After saving a Company ship and its very valuable cargo from the French, Captain Aubrey is handsomely rewarded.  His reward is large enough to get him almost out of debt and free to marry.  Dr. Maturin proposes, ends up defending his honor in a duel, and loses the girl to an American in the end.  <br />Patrick O'Brien's sense of detail and historical accuracy is awe inspiring.  This is an adventure that I highly recommend.	2004-01-05
US	51233834	R2WZ8XIFX4QWUJ	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Incredible sea going adventure!	This historical novel set in the early 19th century has the rake Lucky Jack Aubrey down on his luck - in debt and without a ship.  The story is a masterfully told.  It is of how Jack avoids debtor's prison, gains command, and regains his Lucky Jack moniker by the end of the story.  I highly recommend this novel.  Although there are times where some greater knowledge of sailing these warships would be of use to more fully understand the tale and the inherent drama.  O'Brien does an excellent job of providing enough details that you fully understand the historical backdrop.	2003-12-17
US	51233834	R1OXMQBWRJETRM	0679640509	459507287	Communism: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Absolutely compelling and brilliantly written!	Richard Pipes is the expert on communism and the Soviet Union.  No one else could have written this book on communism but him.  He succinctly presents a complete and comprehensive historical overview of communism and the devastation that followed in its wake.  Unlike so many others in academia, Pipes does not idealize communism or socialism and make excuses for it.  Using documents once unavailable, he explains in no uncertain terms the terror of the communist regime in the Soviet Union while providing unparalleled insight into communism's spread across the globe, its intrigues with Nazism and Fascism, and its eventual decline and collapse.<br />This book is timely.  To many coming of age today, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Berlin Wall are but memories.  Lest we forget the toll of communism on humanity and once again get seduced by the communism's siren call of equality and freedom share this book.  The immorality of the communist era should not be forgotten.	2003-11-24
US	51233834	R3IP060I3DE99T	0306813432	963231451	The Metrosexual Guide To Style: A Handbook For The Modern Man	Books	2	49	59	N	N	Lifestyle for Dummies	Consider this: metrosexuality is really nothing new.  Stated in the most simplistic manner, metrosexuality is no more than a polite man who understands how to dress and appreciates the finer things in life.  In a nutshell, a metrosexual is what used to be known as a gentleman.  The term gentleman may not be politically correct or interesting enough to sell books in a day when the new straight is gay.  So to sell this lifestyle book, the author has capitalized on the latest social trend.<br />In general this is a hip and fun book.  I'd recommend it for the young man whose upbringing didn't include, for example, exposure to manners, tipping, wine selection, or dress.  In general, this is a `how to' lifestyle guide for dummies.  It isn't a serious guide to style.  So, if you are serious there are far better style books or magazines to buy.	2003-11-20
US	51233834	R2EC68GOTKP512	0767900383	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	5	24	30	N	N	Toscana here I come!	In preparation for a two-week visit to Tuscany, I made it a point to read \\"Under the Tuscan Sun.\\"   If you are planning on visiting Tuscany this is the book to read.  A reading of her book provided a wonderful and most helpful underpinning to my visit to Tuscany.<br />Frances Mayes descriptive approach to writing makes the Tuscan towns and countryside, churches, wine, restaurants and cuisine, and people virtually come to life.  The book also provides an incredible account of her and her husband's love affair with the Italian culture and the restoration of house that eventually becomes their \\"home.\\"  She literally brings Tuscany alive in a very compelling and readable manner!<br />Frances Mayes is a complete optimist.  Her glass is literally always half full despite the numerous obstacles she encounters during her home renovation in Italy.  While I share her love of Italy - I am of Italian descent and I've lived in Italy - I do not share in her ability to overlook many of the shortcomings of Italy.  For example, I agree with Frances Mayes that the food is wonderful.  But it is hard to overlook the seemingly ever-present flies hovering near it in a restaurant and the ability of the locals to overlook that.  Not to berate, but the future reader will note that Frances Mayes has gone native.<br />This is a book that I highly recommend.  Just don't expect it to be like the movie.	2003-10-28
US	51233834	R2WJN69FSP2TA7	0486420116	41745137	Mohammed and Charlemagne	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Masterpiece!	Mohammed and Charlemagne is the last work of Henri Pirenne.  It was published after his death and represents a masterpiece of historical scholarship.  This is a seminal work that challenged the thesis that Germanic barbarians obliterated the Roman Empire.  His revolutionary thesis was that the unexpected rise and advance of Islam led to the downfall of the Empire.  With the rise of Islam, the Mediterranean was no longer a thoroughfare of commerce and ideas.  Without the Mediterranean, commerce dried up to a trickle and Europe slipped into the Middle Ages.<br />The revision and completion of the book was completed by one of Pirenne's students after his death.  That leads to one of my criticisms.  Previous works by Pirenne I found engaging and masterfully written.  This work however, seemed to lack the same literary style and, as a consequence, I found it to be a choppy read that lacked the clear crispness of his previous works.  While this statement is subjective, it is not irrelevant.  When Pirenne expounds on economic and sociological issues of the Middle Ages his words literally leap off the page.  It is disappointing that this subject does not surface until the end of the book.	2003-05-19
US	51233834	R3D7S07AAJCK5V	1855671441	661910245	Telecommunications and Politics: The Decentralized Alternative	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Historical and economic analysis of telecommunications	Davies provides an outstanding and complete review of the regulation that occurred in domestic markets for telecommunications.  He covers all the major domestic markets: U.S., Britain, France, Germany, Japan, and includes background on other European markets.  The major point of this work is the role of economics and political power in shaping markets.  Most conjecture is that domestic market regulation was driven by technology and politics.  However, Davies makes the case that economic imperatives determined the different paths of restructuring of domestic network telecommunication monopolies.  The nationally based monopoly providers and an alliance of multi-nationals competed and the outcome of their struggle determined how restructuring of domestic telecommunications markets occurred.  How it played out differently in each domestic market depended to a great extent on that nation's markets and the influence of either monopoly providers or multi-national alliances.  Davies is on the money in his analysis.	2003-03-31
US	51233834	R28OXDERIGRP1V	156476754X	637972625	Know Why You Believe	Books	2	28	47	N	N	A place to start for beginners.	I read Little's book and was disappointed with it.  My criticisms of this book are derived not from an anti-Christian perspective, but from a practical pedagogical perspective.  With that said, I am not trying to disprove any of Little's statements on Christian faith that he derives from his readings of the Bible.  But I do have some criticisms of this book.  My criticisms against this book should assist the prospective reader in selecting (or not selecting this book).<BR>-Simplistic style.  This is not a college level book, despite what one review states.  It is written at the seventh or eighth grade level.  If you read at the college level, this is a Dick & Jane book.  Sometimes it is like reading a PowerPoint presentation.  It is basic and not challenging.<BR>-Slow pace.  The pace of this book is very slow.  Part of what makes this a slow read is the book's repetitious style.  Little keeps making his point over and over.  After a while, you get the point and no longer have to have it made again.<BR>-Errors (or over-simplification).  For example, Little refers to a Greek Empire (page 12).  There was never one.  With that said, it is clear he is referring to the `Greek' linguistic and cultural hegemony created in the western Mediterranean by Alexander the Great's conquests.<BR>-Academic credentials.  Little holds an MBA and is not a theologian.  He holds no advanced degrees in that field.  The method by which Little postulates his arguments resembles those made by Fundamentalist - a lot on what the Bible says and little on historical context or liturgical perspective.  In other words, his sources are limited and it shows.  And, he tends to make circular arguments.<BR>With all of this said, I do consider this to be fine book for a novice to Christianity.  The basics are here, without any complications.  However, it is not illuminating.  So if you are looking for a place to start, this might be it.  However, don't stop here - this is way too basic.	2002-11-26
US	51233834	RQQYOJ6HULVRK	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	2	20	35	N	N	Not compelling	I read Elaine Pagels' book entitled \\"The Origin of Satan\\" and greatly enjoyed it. That book allowed a non-expert in the subject matter to easily follow and understand her points and arguments. She accomplished that without being overly simplistic. So I eagerly anticipated reading \\"The Gnostic Gospels.\\" However, this book fails the reader, especially one who is a novice to the Gnostic gospels. Unlike her pervious novel, little background is provided on the Gnostic gospels making it difficult, at times, to fully understand and appreciate her points.<br />She writes little about the actual gospels and what they say (and mean). I literally have no idea how many of these gospels there were or how long they were. But, it is clear from her book that the writers of the Gnostic gospels were heretics and had opinions about the nature of God, the Trinity, and martyrdom, to name a few, that diverged from Christian Orthodox views. While it is clear that there was a battle between the Gnostics and Orthodox Christians, I learned very little about the Gnostic gospels. Pagels does very little to tell the reader why these gospels are compelling, or are credible or non-credible. And that is an important point since the Gnostic gospels are that different from the standard New Testament gospels. I was looking for perspective and insight on the gospels and she failed to deliver.<br />While it is interesting to learn about why the views these non-Orthodox gospels offer were squashed, you will gain little perspective and insight on what the texts where about. So, I would not recommend this book if you are interested in learning about the Gnostic gospels. With that said, Pagels is a wonderful writer who is unbiased and, almost always, completely compelling.	2002-10-24
US	51233834	R1TT0FN1LHF6HN	0156275333	560833177	Economic and Social History of Medieval Europe (Harvest Book)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Impressive work!	Pirenne's book first appeared in print in 1933, so I have to admit I was a little leery about reading it even though I have an interest in feudal economics.  I was concerned that it would be a stuffy tome that was written in a dense and archaic academic style.  To my surprise, this book is an extraordinarily good read, most interesting, and very informative.  And unlike many books on this subject, a casual reader can be assured that a master's level background on the subject is not necessary to read this book.  <br />Picking up at the end of the Roman Empire and running through approximately the middle 1500s, Pirenne tackles the full spectrum of economic and sociological issues as they evolved throughout the Middle Ages in Europe.  Specifically, he relates how commerce was revived after the break-up of the economic and cultural stability that existed in the ancient world.  Concepts such as the re-issuance of a currency, the rebirth of a money economy, rediscovery of credit, and how urban industry developed are covered and explained in detail.  This is a very complete picture of economic and sociological circumstances that existed during the middle ages, as you are likely to see.<br />Pirenne takes the reader on a journey that attempts to plug the Medieval Period knowledge gap with a detailed explanation of economic development.  Geographically (and culturally) he is able to discuss developments throughout all of Europe, from the Mediterranean to the North Sea.  If you are interested in learning more about conditions in Europe during the Middle Ages and want a fuller understand of how the western economic system developed, pick up this book	2002-10-17
US	51233834	R1SZRTMBX4L51J	0895262479	680964179	Coolidge, An American Enigma	Books	4	18	22	N	N	A quite &amp; unaasumming President	There aren't too many biographies about the life of Calvin Coolidge.  This is an absorbing book that is sure to shatter many myths about Coolidge.  I highly recommend it for your reading list.<br />President Coolidge was not a man accustomed to tooting his horn.  He is well known for his economical use of words.  Without a doubt moderate or conservative in personal behavior, President Coolidge should not be confused with modern political conservatives.  While his personal behavior was clearly conservative, his political beliefs were more identifiable with those associated with modern libertarianism.  President Coolidge was one who believed that government should exercise restraint and not limit liberty.  Despite this belief that government should exercise restraint, President Coolidge's Administration suffered very little from scandal.<br />Modern historians often portray Coolidge as a minor figure and trivialize his time as President.  Often portrayed as a lackey for big business and for not doing anything to prevent the Great Depression, this biography puts holes in the myth that he was in the pocket of big business and responsible for the Depression.  President Coolidge was neither lazy, unintelligent, nor an accidental President.  Coolidge understood the concept of restraint and approached life as President from that perspective.  Not concerned with the outward trappings of power, Coolidge stayed true to his Vermont roots.  <br />You will find that Coolidge was neither indolent nor unintelligent after reading this book.  President Coolidge is just the kind of President we need today.	2002-10-17
US	51233834	R4FWKYMUVJ9DR	0895262479	680964179	Coolidge, An American Enigma	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Cooldge - A Man for Our Time	There aren't too many biographies about the life of Calvin Coolidge. This is an absorbing book that is sure to shatter many myths about Coolidge. I highly recommend it for your reading list.<br />President Coolidge was not a man accustomed to tooting his horn. He is well known for his economical use of words. Without a doubt moderate or conservative in personal behavior, President Coolidge should not be confused with modern political conservatives. While his personal behavior was clearly conservative, his political beliefs were more identifiable with those associated with modern libertarianism. President Coolidge was one who believed that government should exercise restraint and not limit liberty. Despite this belief that government should exercise restraint, President Coolidge's Administration suffered very little from scandal.<br />Modern historians often portray Coolidge as a minor figure and trivialize his time as President. Often portrayed as a lackey for big business and for not doing anything to prevent the Great Depression, this biography puts holes in the myth that he was in the pocket of big business and responsible for the Depression. President Coolidge was neither lazy, unintelligent, nor an accidental President. Coolidge understood the concept of restraint and approached life as President from that perspective. Not concerned with the outward trappings of power, Coolidge stayed true to his Vermont roots. <br />You will find that Coolidge was neither indolent nor unintelligent after reading this book. President Coolidge is just the kind of President we need today.	2002-10-08
US	51233834	R36NY5TH02AECP	0156275333	560833177	Economic and Social History of Medieval Europe (Harvest Book)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Masterful explanation of Economics during the Middle Ages	Pirenne's book first appeared in print in 1933, so I have to admit I was a little leery about reading it even though I have an interest in feudal economics.  I was concerned that it would be a stuffy tome that was written in a dense and archaic academic style.  To my surprise, this book is an extraordinarily good read, most interesting, and very informative.  And unlike many books on this subject, a casual reader can be assured that a master's level background on the subject is not necessary to read this book.  <br />Picking up at the end of the Roman Empire and running through approximately the middle 1500s, Pirenne tackles the full spectrum of economic and sociological issues as they evolved throughout the Middle Ages in Europe.  Specifically, he relates how commerce was revived after the break-up of the economic and cultural stability that existed in the ancient world.  Concepts such as the re-issuance of a currency, the rebirth of a money economy, rediscovery of credit, and how urban industry developed are covered and explained in detail.  This is a very complete picture of economic and sociological circumstances that existed during the middle ages as you are likely to see.<br />Pirenne takes the reader on a journey that attempts to plug the Medieval Period knowledge gap with a detailed explanation of economic development.  Geographically (and culturally) he is able to discuss developments throughout all of Europe, from the Mediterranean to the North Sea.  If you are interested in learning more about conditions in Europe during the Middle Ages and want a fuller understand of how the western economic system developed, pick up this book	2002-10-07
US	51233834	R31ELMLRECV2UE	0870783661	691349424	The New Information Infrastructure: Strategies for U.S. Policy (A Twentieth Century Fund Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good reference for telecommunications policy	I'll admit at the outset of this review that I did not read this whole book, so I cannot speak for it in its entirety. Despite that I want to offer my opinion on what I read because it was very useful to me academically. This book is an excellent compilation of contributions from scholars. All the contributors are to a degree prominent and the book mainly deals with telecommunications policy.<br />I purchased it specifically as a reference for my dissertation. I was interested in two chapters from this book that dealt with international telecommunications policy and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). These two chapters were contributed by Cowhey and Rutkowski and proved to be very useful to me. Finding pedagogically sound reference material on the ITU is very difficult and these contributions proved to be a goldmine.<br />Both contributions deal with recent (1990s) changes to the ITU. In addition, these two contributions provide a greater fidelity to the material I've been able to find to date on the ITU. For example, Rutkowski explains how the ITU's origins in the postal ministries of late 1880s Europe can help explain why it is such a stagnate organization in the face of dynamic technological and market change today.	2002-09-30
US	51233834	R3TIUPO8OGYSZX	0130621129	186444346	The Joy of Freedom: An Economist's Odyssey	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An explanation of freedom from a personal perspective	Professor Henderson does not disappoint with this book.  During the early 1990s, I had the pleasure of taking a class from Professor Henderson at the Naval Postgraduate School.  Professor Henderson was then, and I expect he still is, one of the most popular teachers at the school.  That isn't because he's an easy grader or that he has an incredible grasp of economics.  It is because he possesses an innate ability to communicate the most difficult of subjects with ease and clarity.  He is an engaging advocate for liberty.  In fact, economics is not the dismal science when he instructs.  <br />He explains, in a sometimes-personal way, how markets work and many of the issues that we face today with a pointed lucidity.  The arguments put forward are not new.  In fact, I'd be surprised if many readers have not heard them already.  What makes this book different and so enjoyable is how Professor Henderson's optimistic outlook and perspective pervades his explanation of issues so critical to our understanding of the world and our personal freedom.   More importantly, Professor Henderson is an advocate for liberty.  In a world that is increasingly controlled by government, this is a must read.	2002-09-03
US	51233834	R3EXZJ5HCDNFJG	068483569X	917003779	The Commanding Heights : The Battle for the World Economy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good effort!	All in all a very good effort. While the reading at times is repetitive, I nonetheless found it interesting and compelling throughout. The breath and scope of this book is most impressive. It does justice to the subject: the philosophical victory of the neo-classical perspective represented by von Hayek over the government interventionist perspective represented by Keynes.  Think of it as the main heavyweight event of economists.<br />I have a few criticisms of this book. First, the implications of North's work on institutions is not presented in the context of its effect on the resurgence of the neo-classical perspective in the last two decades of this century. Second, American Exceptionalism (a.k.a. Lipset) is not discussed even though it is a clear underlying theme of this book. Third, while these authors wrote about the resurgence of neo-classical economics, the reader is left feeling that the authors do not subscribe to that perspective. For example, the authors seem open to third way economics even though that is merely re-packaged government interventionism.<br />Overall this is an excellent book that I'd recommend.	2002-06-04
US	51233834	RZAZOCO2L9T2	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An outstanding history of Satan.	An outstanding history of Satan.  I thoroughly enjoyed and was enlightened by her deft weaving of the historical threads showing how western society has arrived at its concept of Satan.  She clearly exposes the biases of the early Christian church.  And, in no uncertain terms she explains how the political landscape during the Christian church's formative years \\"forced\\" it to target the Jews as those responsible for Christ's crucifixion while providing cover for the Roman Empire.  If you are a fundamentalist and read the bible literally this is not a book for you.  Her historical approach captures the evolution of the Jesus story within the four gospels.	2002-06-04
US	51233834	R1IV4UAV35QGWM	015661930X	166289232	Money Mischief: Episodes in Monetary History	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Historical Treatis on Money	Monetary Mischief is an appropriate title for this book.  Dr. Friedman is writes about a subject that he is surely among the world's experts on - money or, more specifically, monetary theory.  This is a historical treatise dealing with monetary history.  Dr. Friedman explains in very clear and uncertain terms how the value of money can be altered by the policies of government and how that effects individuals.  He also discusses how the US during the 19th century ended up with a mono-metallic money standard of gold instead of a bimetallic standard of gold and silver.  The unintended consequences of this shift in money standards are explained.  He also sheds a great deal of light on how the supply of these metals influences the value of money and ultimately the individual.  Inflation and deflation of a currency can be better understood after a reading of this book.  Dr. Friedman approaches this complex issue from a practical angle always insuring that the reader understands what it is he is saying.	2000-11-08
US	51233834	R1DR1H9PAZLVRZ	0674641698	203928158	Order without Law: How Neighbors Settle Disputes	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Society and Law book that explains order without law.	This book does not seek to explain the world in economic terms, but it does seek to explain it in sociological terms.  Using the example of Shasta County cattle ranchers he has crafted an excellent book.  It is scholarly, yet accessible.<br />Ellickson brilliantly explains how some many of society's actions are coordinated by informal norms that do not necessarily mirror the law.  The theory of how \\"order without law\\" occurs is what this effort seeks to explain.  This is sometimes explained as spontaneous ordering.  How ranchers in Shasta County settle their disputes without recourse to law has broad implications and allows Ellickson to construct a theoretical framework based on a society and law perspective.	2000-10-28
US	51233834	R2CW6SBPG0U9T6	0375407650	544501017	Butterfly Economics: A New General Theory of Social and Economic Behavior	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Chaos Theory Explained in Simple Terms	This is clearly written and concise non-academic attempt to explain the chaos of economics.  The author does not mire the reader down in economic equations.  He simply describes what is occurring in an easy to comprehend manner.  His general theory posits that we can not understand how economies work - human actions are just too complex and chaotic to model.  Because we can not accurately model these economies, we can not make determinations about the consequences of actions taken to ameliorate short-term economic problems.  The consequence is that governments must focus their policy efforts on the long term and avoid intrusions in the market to correct short-term problems.  The author also explores the connection between what is happening in society and economic trends.  In an easy to understand example, he uses ants with two choices of food placed equal distance from their home to explain what he means.	2000-10-04
US	51233834	R3TYLCJP8PJD6Q	0521290996	519640879	The Rise of the Western World: A New Economic History	Books	4	28	29	N	N	An Examination of Property Rights	An outstanding book that clearly explains how `our' current understanding of property rights can be found and more fully understood through the feudal history of western Europe.  The breath and sweep of this book is truly impressive. The roots of how nations protect property rights are found in western feudal history.  The case is made that economic efficiency, or more specifically economic prosperity, is dependent upon how a society defines and protects property rights.  Therefore, differences in economic performance among nations can be in part explained by how that particular nation's notion of property rights evolved. North and Thomas compare and contrast the development of property rights and the resulting economic performance during the feudal period in several nations, such as France and England, to make their point.  Transaction costs, intellectual property, and negative and positive externalities are also discussed.	2000-09-30
US	51233834	R1ILHFEQXTD5D2	0521597137	440183570	Economic Analysis of Property Rights (Political Economy of Institutions and Decisions)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Superb treatise on property rights.	This book is written from the neoclassical perspective and takes a sensible and thoughtful approach to property rights.  This book provides the reader insight into how property rights define how society organizes  itself.  Building on Public Choice Theory, Barzel explores how property  rights are delineated in many situations, addressing head on the Tragedy of  the Commons.  <br />For any study of law and economics this is a must read.   But the reader must be cautioned that this is not an Economics 101 book.  A  solid grounding in the writings of Buchanan, Tullock, Arrow, Ostrum, Coase,  and Olson are what is required to make this a comprehensible read.	2000-06-22
US	51233834	R3J0MV6TWMIKI3	0809015919	788710125	Copyright's Highway: From Gutenberg to the Celestial Jukebox	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good but wordy	My background is economics and finance and not law.  Maybe because of that I found this book to be wordy and a little long-winded.  The author approaches the subject from a lawyer's perspective.  The book could have  been better if it the author went into less detail on the one or two court  cases he highlights and spent some more effort exploring some interesting  concepts he introduces.  Economic concepts like public good and private  good, complementary and substitute goods, monopoly and copyrights, the role  of the marketplace, and the intersection of copyright with natural rights  were hinted at, but never fully developed.  The highlight of the book is  his chapter on the two cultures of copyright.  Economists and lawyers  sometimes fail to give the proper weight to how culture affects outcomes in  society.  Overall this is an interesting book that could have been better  if the author was more pointed in his writing.	2000-01-16
US	51233834	R2SA6PNXINF4ZY	0226264017	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	15	20	N	N	The groundwork for freedom	The test of time had vindicated Milton Friedman.  When this book was published, its ideas and concepts were far from mainstream.  Today, the tide has turned decisively in his favor and away from Keynesianism and  corporatism.    His critical and thoughtful defense of the marketplace and  critique of socialism laid the groundwork for the resurgence of the  American economy.  Friedman is not anti-state, after all he recognizes the  need for the state as an impartial umpire.  He cautions against relying to  heavily upon state intervention as it leads to a consistent reduction in  personal freedom.	1999-12-31
US	51233834	R2QVLKMMTSE6XZ	0156334607	252269413	Free to Choose: A Personal Statement	Books	5	40	45	N	N	The reality of the marketplace	As we head into the next millennium, it becomes increasingly clear the progress we've enjoyed is mainly attributable to the freedom of the marketplace.  The Friedman's provide an incredibly readable and  understandable defense of the marketplace.  A believer in the free market  will find this book a refreshing review of reality.  However, uninitiated  neophytes, who still cling to government solutions, will likely have to  struggle to accept this book's seemingly contrarian positions.  The effort  is well worth it.  When written, this book challenged conventional wisdom -  today many of its propositions are conventional wisdom.  How far we've come  - thank you Milton and Rose Friedman.	1999-12-30
US	51233834	R10IECWH7TRSJF	0300076274	734229603	On Democracy	Books	3	3	9	N	N	A quick and easy read	This is a good book.  <br />However, the author's bias shows through on several topics.  For example, even though it is obvious that he clearly  believes a proportional electoral system is superior to a first past the  pole system, he never states that is his belief.  He presents an incomplete  list of goods and bads associated with both systems.  But, neither list is  exhaustive.  The reader, as a result, is left to figure out what he left  off the list and wondering why it was left off the list.  <br />Otherwise,  this is a good book if you want a quick and easy read on democracy.	1999-10-28
US	51233834	R2VB9R4CMX9QA1	0395859980	658542943	The Good Society: The Humane Agenda	Books	2	11	43	N	N	A book that will make you laugh and frighten you	Mr. Galbraith is smart, accomplished, and learned man who knows what is best for all us.  His view of a good society differs from past visions of societal utopia.  Rather than a completely coercive state directing the  actions of its citizens to some hirer calling, Mr. Galbraith aims to be  `practical' and just further defines the third way.  Nonetheless, his  proposal of what makes a good society is not the classical liberal view and  it is more attuned to the European model of society.  Many of his proposals  are so silly you won't take them seriously.  But sadly, he is quite  serious.  For example, Mr. Galbraith states that in a good society everyone  should have a rewarding life.  Of course, he never defines the standard by  which society should judge whether or not a life is rewarding.  Neither  does he address what one should do if their life is un-rewarding and what  the obligation is of society to fulfill that vision of a rewarding life.   And, of course, who is the `rewarding life judge' and does this judge have  the authority of the state to take something from someone (who has a life  that is deemed too rewarding) for someone who has life that is too  un-rewarding.  Mr. Galbraith fails to convince the reader of the  practicality of his proposals and ends up straddling a line between  socialism and capitalism, and saying nothing new.	1999-10-21
US	51233834	R2TO9P48224WKS	0070293074	924946164	Cultures and Organizations, Software of the Mind: Intercultural Cooperation and its Importance for Survival	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Provides an undestanding of culture's role in business	I highly recommend this book if you are interested in international business or issues.  This book will provide you an outstanding framework for understanding the challenges to communication when dealing with  different cultures.	1999-10-16
