US	51258537	R23EBR79W2MJPP	1595230114	189014283	New Glory: Expanding America's Global Supremacy	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Peters Hath Murdered Sleep!	I tell people the reason I'm so ugly is becuase I spend my nights reading books like NEW GLORY instead of getting my rest.  Well, who needs sleep when we've got commentary like this on world affairs?  Those who've read Mr. Peters' essays will not be disappointed here.  NEW GLORY is Ralph Peters at his lucid, succinct, devastating best.  Think-tankers, bureaucrats, leftists and neocons alike, and all the armchair dilettantes who infest the airwaves will not like this book because Mr. Peters pillories them mercilessly. Those people will feel threatened by Mr. Peters' ideas on what's wrong with our military and foreign policies and how to correct them.  That is because they are the product of many years' actual experience as a soldier and world traveler, not academia or the E-Ring of the Pentagon or any of those other ivory towers where eggheads seek refuge from reality. One wonders if the hard, practical and cogent advice he gives here  will have any effect on our current leadership.  I doubt it, they're too deep into the swamp they've made of affairs.  But I think the true value of a book like NEW GLORY is that it's aimed at the dynamic young men and women who will compose the next generation of leaders, capable young people who do know a hawk from a handsaw.  If I'm right there is a new glory waiting us and Mr. Peters is its prophet.	2005-08-22
US	51258537	R3E7DDTE96N6QG	0399152490	723802034	Lost Triumph: Lee's Real Plan at Gettysburg--and Why It Failed	Books	5	17	26	N	Y	A Horseman in the China Shop	With LOST TRIUMPH Tom Carhart has inflicted severe damage on many readers' prize china collections.  I caution everyone to remember two things about this book:  If you've never been in a battle yourself or experienced the type of education West Point offered men like Robert E. Lee -- and Mr. Carhart qualifies uniquely on both counts -- pay close attention to Carhart's description of the antecedent campaigns that influenced Lee because they formed the basis of his strategic thinking.  In answer to the reviewer who wonders why James McPhearson endorses LOST TRIUMPH, the reason is because he recognizes that Mr. Carhart lays out his thesis clearly and succinctly and moreover proves it, much to the dismay of other students with strongly held and long-held notions about how Lee fought at Gettysburg.	2005-05-03
US	51258537	R1K2HEB76CI6NZ	0765311410	38402791	The Majority Rules	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A Look Under the Robes	The only contact most of us have with the judiciary is traffic court or selection for jury duty in our local circuit courts.  In the latter case, whether we're selected to sit on a jury or only make the pool, the officers of the court treat us like royalty.  Few of us have any personal experience with the highest courts in this land or contact otherwise with the judges who sit on those courts.  Well, THE MAJORITY RULES is going to be your first exposure to the federal appeals court system and while this book is a novel it's also an eye-opening education.  Mr. Sullivan is no gifted amateur or sometime lawschool graduate scribbling dramatic courtroom scenes, he's a former appeals court judge intimately familiar with the Washington scene where this novel is set and that insider knowledge breathes reality into every word of this story, from the opening line, worthy of Melville (\\"On the last day of his life, federal judge Max Rogers went to a party.\\") to the end.  Mr. Sullivan's literary style is fast-moving, lean and hard, reminiscent of his early life as an Army Ranger and combat veteran, experiences which must've made him unique in the federal judiciary.  We all know that everyone has his pecadilloes, even the protagonist of THE MAJORITY RULES, and that corruption can reach to the highest levels of public life, but with this book Judge Sullivan has given us a fast-paced, gritty, realistic look under the robes of the federal judiciary revealing that some of its honorable members have dirty underwear.	2005-02-23
US	51258537	R10LTO8MXQDCNK	080283938X	177796266	Ancestral Shadows: An Anthology of Ghostly Tales	Books	3	12	25	N	Y	The Hollow Lord of the Dark	This collection of Russell Kirk's supernatural fiction ranges in quality from simply lordly and brilliant(\\"What Shadows We Pursue\\") to utterly hollow and bombastic (\\"The Last God's Dream\\").  And too many of these stories are predictable.  In other words, there aren't many chills here but the ones you will find are first-class.  I think the reason for this is because Kirk put too much of himself into these stories.  If you ever read at his autobiography, \\"The Sword of Imagaination\\" (written in the third person, incidentally), you will find its style digressive and ponderous, a style that is amply reflected in these stories.  I am not advising you to pass on this collection, but just to get it at the library or wait for \\"Ancestral Shadows\\" to come out in paperback.	2004-09-27
US	51258537	R3HVNLH612P1TJ	0874514037	194122269	Heckling Hitler: Caricatures of the Third Reich	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too Many Words	One problem with a book like this is how do you balance text against the illustrations?  Space limitations, the author's personal preferences, the availability of materials, all play a part in the selection process.  In this case Zeman offers us the work of only a small number of artists out of the legions that pilloried the Nazis.  For instance, in 1940 the Nazis themselves(Nibelungen Verlag, \\"Unser Aller Hitler, Wie Man Euch Den Fuhrer Zeigte Und Wie Er Wirklich Ist\\") unwittingly published some of the most bitingly satirical Dutch and French caricatures of Hitler I've ever seen, none of which appear in this collection (their idea at the time was to contrast those caricatures against the \\"real\\" Hitler, to show the German people how badly the world misunderstood their beloved Fuhrer).  The thumbnail biographical sketches of the artists whose work appears here are informative but unfortunately the accompanying text is pedestrian and it even contains some misconceptions:  Some of the hardest-fighting units in the Waffen SS were those composed of foreign volunteers.  This does not obscure the fact that some of the art reproduced here is brilliant and perceptive but the old adage applies that one picture really is worth a thousand words.	2004-08-14
US	51258537	RG5RZI1AV9QXU	1559707283	697310768	Until the Final Hour: Hitler's Last Secretary	Books	5	14	20	N	Y	Words Worth a Thousand Pictures	If you saw Melissa Muller's documentary film on the life of Traudl Junge, &quot;Blind Spot,&quot; you might have passed on this memoir because not only was the film of the typically boring &quot;talking head&quot; genre, it revealed little of anything new about life at Hitler's side. Here Muller does a much better job with her Introduction and Afterword but the showcase of this book is Traudl Junge's diary of her years as one of Hitler's private secretaries. Nichols von Below and Hans Bauer also wrote memoirs of their time on Hitler's personal staff but neither officer was as close to him as Junge or observed him as intimately as she and it is her perspective that makes this book revealing and fascinating. All her long life Junge struggled coming to terms with the guilt she felt for having served Hitler so faithfully and having believed in him so completely. Junge near the end of her long life reproached herself for lacking the &quot;self-confidence and good sense to speak out against [Nazism] at the right moment.&quot; She saw that clearly near the end of her life, as we all see things so clearly in retrospect. How much of this is due to introspection or how much is the result of what other people, like Melissa Muller, wanted her to see is difficult to say. Evidently Muller believes everyone who served the Third Reich in any capacity should feel guilty about it but in Junge' case the mea culpa argument will not resonate with anyone who in their own youth has ever believed in a cause that failed or been betrayed by a leader; the accusation of collective guilt is all too easy to assume for those who weren't there. What Muller writes in the Afterword, &quot;Traudl Junge served a criminal regime, but [while] she took no part in the murders...That does not excuse her,&quot; reeks of the cow pasture and the reader is advised not to walk there. Even the perceptive and dedicated anti-Nazi Victor Klemperer remained unaware of the full extent of the Holocaust. But her Afterword, despite Muller's evident revisionist prejudice, is a revealing summary of Junge's post-war life that adds significantly to our understanding of her character. The footnotes supplied throughout the text of Junge's diary are an excellent aid to understanding the personalities and events surrounding her during the 2 1/2 years she was Hitler's secretary. Anyone who wishes to understand how evil can subvert even an innocent young person much less a whole nation of decent people, should read this book.ord, despite Muller's evident revisionist prejudice, is a revealing summary of Junge's post-war life that adds significantly to our understanding of her character. The footnotes supplied throughout the text of Junge's diary are an excellent aid to understanding the personalities and events surrounding her during the 2 1/2 years she was Hitler's secretary. Anyone who wishes to understand how evil can subvert even an innocent young person much less a whole nation of decent people, should read this book.	2004-08-02
US	51258537	R2GCSKUGCYIR1K	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	3	8	30	N	Y	Boring Into the Past	Yes, &quot;Shadow Divers&quot; is a page-turner, as most other reviewers have already noted.  Any story about brave and honorable men (John Chatterton and Richie Kohler and their friends) dedicated to commemorating the lives of other brave and honorable men (the crew of the German sub U869) should be a page-turner.  Moreover, author Robert Kurson did his research,&quot;Shadow Divers&quot; is not a slapdash journalistic effort to turn a quick buck on a good story.  And while plenty of excellent books offer first-hand glimpses into the harrowing -- and short -- lives of the men in the German U-boat service, &quot;Shadow Divers&quot; exceptionally offers a fascinating look into the world of sport diving and the men who risk their lives to dive on wrecks.  But ultimately, when I reached the end of this book I was glad to have finally gotten there, and I confess to skipping parts of the narrative along the way.  Kurson writes in a &quot;novelistic&quot; style and while I believe the substance of the conversations he recreates here is faithful to what was actually said, it should have been used more sparingly because relying so much on this device to tell the story drags after a while and gets in the way of what every reader wants to know:  Who are the men in that sub down there? While Chatterton and Kohler put everything into solving the mystery of the U869, Kurson dwells far too long on each man's past and I confess no interest at all in John Chatterton or Ritchie Kohler's adolescent experiences or Chatterton's Vietnam service.  Note also that Kurson relies principally on the perspectives of Chatterton and Kohler to the exclusion of the views of their rivals which creates the suspicion the story might lack a little balance.  Finally, a quibble, I admit, there is a big difference between sailors, marines, and soldiers and it bugs me when authors otherwise dedicated to their craft fail to understand this.	2004-07-11
US	51258537	R3KPKOV5VEHLU3	0743241797	777226591	A Road We Do Not Know: A Novel of Custer at Little Bighorn	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	As Close As You're Gonna Get	With &quot;A Road We Do Not Know&quot; Mr. Chiaventone takes us, on both banks of the Little Big Horn River, as close to what really happened there June 25, 1876 as anybody will ever get. Chiaventone achieves this partly through extensive historical research and partly through empathy for the men involved in the events, all of whom, Indians and cavalrymen, emerge from this story as real people:  There are no Noble Savages in this book nor is Custer represented as a fool.  Chivaentone understands the &quot;fog of war&quot; and how it can blind otherwise valiant and experienced commanders:  Eighty-nine years after the Little Big Horn the 7th Cavalary got itself into a similar debacle at a place called the Ia Drang Valley in Viet-Nam, and in 1965 they had air support and artillery.  The only quibble I have about this excellent novel is the large number of footnotes throughout.  They do not belong in a novel because they distract from the flow of the story.  Someone at Simon &amp; Schuster needs to be reminded of that:  put 'em in the narrative, in the mouths of the characters, or in an &quot;Historical Note&quot; at the end of the book, but NOT at the bottom of the page.	2004-05-11
US	51258537	R1DAZ1JQT0FXZE	096663893X	893849868	Five Years, Four Fronts: The War Years of Georg Grossjohann	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Big John's Memoir	Of the many excellent memoirs by German veterans of WWII now available in English, this one is unique.  The problem I find with so many of the other books in this venue, granted, classics in their own way, is the numbing recitation of desperate battles, especially if the author served on the Eastern Front.  You can only absorb so many attacks and retreats before those events begin to blend together.  Georg Grossjohann's is really a very personal account of his wartime service during which he saw some very close combat, but the Historical Commentary by Keith Bonn and Wolf Zoepf and the excellent maps supplied by the publisher suffice for the background and do not get in the way of Grossjohann's lively reminiscences of the men he served with in peace and war.  Grossjohann was in the Reichswehr before Hitler came to power and the stories he tells about his garrison service are worthy of a book by themselves (which I understand Aegis is planning on publishing).  Erwin the Only is but one, if perhaps the most memorable of the colorful, finely drawn characters Grossjohann remembers with a wry sense of humor throughout this book.  Highly recommended to the serious student and the casual reader alike.	2004-02-15
US	51258537	R314FACJNGN97I	0375756973	317275976	I Will Bear Witness 1942-1945: A Diary of the Nazi Years	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Ten-Star Collection	Volume I and this volume of Victor Klemperer's diaries as well as \\"The Language of the Third Reich\\" (\\"LTI\\") comprise the most extraordinary view of Hitler's Germany so far published.  Not only are these books superbly written by an educated and perceptive man and expertly translated, they offer the most complete and engaging view ever presented of life in Nazi Germany.  Born a Jew, Klemperer was a converted Christian, married to an Aryan, an anti-Zionist, and a German through and through.  He also served with distinction in WWI.  None of this made much difference to the Gestapo but nevertheless the Klemperers survived all 12 years of the Third Reich without being sent to a death camp, the humiliations (confiscation of car, home, pets, even Klemperer's WWI rifle bayonet!), the shortages of food and clothing, the forced manual labor.  Through Klemperer's eyes we see clearly and with amazing detail and insight how the Nazis strangled initiative and freedom in Germany between 1933-1945, not only for Jews but Germans as well.  We also see that anti-Semitism was not as widely spread in Germany as we might have previously believed, at least not in Dresden, where the Klemperers spent most of these horrible 12 years.  It is also significant that neither Klemperer nor any of the other Jews in Dresden were aware during the war of the precise extent of the Holocaust, although they all knew that being sent to a concentration camp meant eventual death.  My only criticism of these diaries is they could have used some maps of the local area and the notes should've been put at the bottom of the pages instead of at the end of the books, arranged by date.  Thus it is sometimes very easy to miss the significance of certain entries.  These books are required reading for anyone seriously interested in the history of Nazi Germany.	2004-01-11
US	51258537	R2CW7XH8YK8O6E	0811729117	937827036	Tigers in the Mud: The Combat Career of German Panzer Commander Otto Carius (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	4	61	66	N	Y	Bogged Down in the Mud	Author Otto Carius is the kind of soldier whose wartime service in the Wehrmacht reflects credit upon every combat soldier of the German army.  It is a pleasure to read such a straight-forward, honest personal narrative such as this that confines itself exclusively to the author's own frontline experiences.  I agree with Carius that it is a disgrace the heroism and sacrifices of men like him have not, until only recently, received the recognition they deserve.  Those of us who were in Vietnam know what it's like to be reviled by our own countrymen. Robert Edwards' English-language translation deserves special credit.  The appendices in this book will be of special interest to the military historian and the facsimile reproductions of Carius's awards and citations, expertly translated, will be of particular interest to the militara collector.  But I have given this book only 4 stars because it slows down considerably about halfway through.  How many assaults and attacks can you absorb without becoming bored and bogged down in details?  These combat accounts eventually become only a little more interesting than the official after action reports themselves, which Carius had when he wrote this book, and some of which are in the appendices.  But overall this book is the story of a brave and honorable soldier, of value to anyone interested in armored warfare, but more importantly, a succesful attempt to balance the horror stories about the inhumane conduct of the German army in Russia during WWII.	2004-01-11
US	51258537	R2XOCKXTY2EW1V	1585673455	429992226	Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics	Books	5	62	70	N	Y	Who Is Afraid of Adolf Hitler?	When I lived in Germany 45 years ago I simply could not understand how those decent and civilized people had allowed themselves to be taken in by Hitler.  And amazingly in our many conversations they freely admitted that they still believed, up to a point, that Hitler had been \\"good\\" for Germany!<br />Since then I have turned over a whole library trying to find an answer to that question.  Three books go a long way toward explaining the phenomenon of Adolf Hitler:  Ian Kershaw's two-volume biography; \\"Hitler's Table Talk\\" edited by John Toland; and now Frederic Spotts' \\"Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics.\\"<br />\\"Who is afraid of Adolf Hitler?\\" Frederic Spotts asks at the end of this extraordinarily revealing book.  \\"Just about everyone,\\" is his rhetorical response.  Another question this book asks, tangentially, is \\"Who doesn't loathe Adolf Hitler?\\"  Well, Hitler was personally responsible for the murder of millions of people and a war that destroyed Europe.  All of this within living memory -- many of us were nurtured on the events of WWII.  So how could any decent person admit to a shred of sympathy or even understanding for a monster like this Hitler?  One would rather admit to sympathy for the Devil.<br />If you wish for any insight into a person's psychology, start with the music he likes and his taste in art.  In this book Mr. Spotts makes the case that that these things were essential and central in Hitler's life and career and he does this convincingly.  He also proves, to my satisfaction at least, that Adolf Hitler actually had some talent as a painter and an architect, not first-class by any means, but enough that he knew good stuff from trash and that he knew full well the \\"socialist\\" art produced during the Third Reich was trash.  But one of the most revealing aspects of \\"Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics\\" is what it reveals about us, the readers.  If we are honest with ourselves, we have to admit that much of the art and music and architecture Hitler liked, we like it too, and the stuff he didn't like, that turns us off also. Mr. Spotts concludes that Hitler's personality had many facets and the value of this book is that it forces us to look closely at them and open our eyes to the tiny glimmers of ourselves in there.iked, we like it too, and the stuff he didn't like, that turns us off also. Mr. Spotts concludes that Hitler's personality had many facets and the value of this book is that it forces us to look closely at them and open our eyes to the tiny glimmers of ourselves in there.	2003-04-19
US	51258537	R719BV14G7IEV	0060013788	224870380	Our Simple Gifts: Civil War Christmas Tales	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Short But Very Sweet	I do not know enough about the current state of American letters to venture an educated opinion about where Mr. Owen Parry stands in comparison to his colleagues who are writing fiction today, but this slim volume of poetic prose is such good stuff that any author would be proud to have written it.  I'm a writer too, so I'm cursed to know good writing when I see it, but I also know that no matter how hard I might try, I'll never be up to Mr. Parry's level. Well, that puts me into very good company with many so-called best-selling scribblers.  These simple stories, told by a master, wonderfully evoke the joy of humanity at its best, and yet Mr. Parry writes with a steel pen:  Reading these stories is like coming inside from the cold to a room with a blazing fire -- they warm you through and through and you're grateful for the respite they bring your soul, but your ears sting painfully from the howling wind outside.  Ladies and gentlemen, not many can write like that.	2002-11-13
US	51258537	R26QK7E76XS8Q9	0060186348	975217396	Honor's Kingdom (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	That ... Parry!	I have never eaten an eel pie, but I've heard of 'em and thought perhaps some day I might enjoy the experience.  Not now!  Not after reading the first chapter of Abel Jones's latest adventure.  That ... Parry has such a command of English prose he used it to make me ill!  I haven't read anythng quite as graphic as Chapter 1 of \\"Honor's Kingdom\\" since Swift's \\"The Lady's Dressing Room.\\"  But once into this book, as all of Parry's novels, I couldn't put it aside.<br />So what's Abel Jones doing in England?  I thought this mystery was pretty straight forward: the redoubtable Major is there to thwart the Confederates' English confederates from building warships for Richmond's fledgling navy.  The CSS ALABAMA springs immediately to mind.  But the ALABAMA was launched and she wreaked havoc with Yankee shipping.  So Jones' mission we know from the beginning of this book is a failure.  OK, so he'll solve some grisly murders?  Well, read the book.  Owen Parry's plots aren't THAT transparent.<br />Now that the \\"Washington Post\\" has blown Parry's cover it's obvious this talented literary gentleman has been leaving clues to his real identity buried in the pages of his books.  Turn to p. 75 in this edition.  There it is and it's hilarious.  The real Owen Parry evidently has a self-deprecating sense of humor that combined with his devastating talent as a writer must make him in real life a very endearing person.  He also knows English lit.  In \\"Honor's Kingdom\\" you'll meet Thackery, learn something about Dickens (to whom Parry's writing has been favorably compared), get to know young Henry Adams, and get a liberal dose of William Shakespeare.  Parry has something in common with the Bard too:  His bad guys get some of the best lines.  Oh, and if Karl Marx has any living descendants they may well sue Mr. Parry.  But if that happens, don't worry, old bean, all your fans will happily contribute thousands to your defense!<br />And kudos to Ms. Barbara Levine, the cover artist.  I wish I could get her to work for me.<br />...sh I could get her to work for me.<br />...	2002-09-01
US	51258537	R2UOXZPH6PMF32	1853674680	124570723	At Hitler's Side: The Memoirs of Hitler's Luftwaffe Adjutant	Books	4	46	47	N	Y	A Sophisticated & Articulate Memoir	Von Below was Adolf Hitler's Luftwaffe adjutant for eight years, from 1937 to the very end of the war.  As such he held many intimate conversations with Hitler and in this well-written (and very well translated) memoir, he claims to have had Der Fuhrer's confidence.  That he remained in this job for 8 years is proof enough of that fact.  Von Below's portrait of Hitler on the job is very different from the raving single-minded maniac usually portrayed in movies and popular biographies.  Von Below claims that if one knew how to approach Hitler one could reason with him and even get him to change his mind. By this account Hitler was a hard-working, dedicated, charismatic and intelligent leader who was often misled by his subordinates.  Von Below claims to have known nothing about the mass murders committed by the Nazis.  He also claims to have had serious misgivings about Hitler's war strategy; and he writes that he was well aware of the shortcomings of the Luftwaffe.  As a pilot himself, I tend to believe him outright on this point, but otherwise I don't know how much of the insight he claims to have had into strategic matters might have been colored by hindsight. In any event, he was never able to convince Hitler although he writes that many times he did express his doubts to Der Fuhrer, who always heard him out. Compare this book with the memoir written by Hitler's pilot, Hans Bauer.  Both men, knowing the end was inevitable, stuck it out and for that we must admire their courage and dedication.  I don't think they remained with Hitler in Germany's doomed capital because of some lemming-like compulsion to destruction ingrained in the German psyche, but because of their personal devotion to Hitler.  And since neither man was an idiot nor a war criminal with nothing to lose, commanding such loyalty from men like these says a lot about Adolf Hitler's personality. Bauer spent 10 years in a Russian POW camp while von Below managed to escape the Russians after Hitler gave him permission to escape from Berlin. For my money this book ends too abruptly.  I would like to know what happened to von Below after the war and that is why I gave it only 4 stars.  But in summary, this book is a valuable addition to the study of Adolf Hitler and a testament to its author, who I think was a man of honor.him permission to escape from Berlin. For my money this book ends too abruptly.  I would like to know what happened to von Below after the war and that is why I gave it only 4 stars.  But in summary, this book is a valuable addition to the study of Adolf Hitler and a testament to its author, who I think was a man of honor.	2002-08-15
US	51258537	R9ZG4R3O6DH5A	1587761122	806862629	Yesterday's Dreams	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Olcas on the Streets of New York	If you've ever haunted an antique shop or an antiquarian bookshop, if you have even a touch of Irish in you (or wish you did), or if you just enjoy a good read, \\"Yesterday's Dreams\\" will more than satisfy those itches.  Kara O'Keefe, the heroine of this novel, is Everyone:  an honest, decent young woman who does not realize her true potential.  In her we can all see a bit of ourselves and as Ms. McPhail guides her Kara through this story Kara never loses her humanity, even when faced, at the end, with ultimate evil, Olcas, the inimical Power that haunts every page of this compelling story.  \\"Yesterday's Dreams\\" is an elegantly written book, as deep as the River Shannon and as swift as Maggie's sprite.  It's also an auspicious beginning for this new writer who seems to have sprung among us like Athena from the head of Zeus, fully armored and wise in the ways of literature.  And best of all, I don't think I'll miss my guess when I predict a sequel to this fine novel.  Congratulations, Danielle, and keep up the good work!	2002-07-28
US	51258537	R27U3U9RZ9U343	1930571003	284618667	Hitler at My Side	Books	3	7	11	N	Y	History Without Reflection	Hans Baur deserves a reputation of more than just being \\"Hitler's pilot.\\"  He was a WWI ace and a distinguished pioneer of early European aviation.  Indeed, a good part of this memoir recounts his days between wars, flying over the Alps, when the job was done literally by the seat of the pilot's pants and only the most skillful survived.  Severely wounded in Berlin during the last hours of the Third Reich, Baur survived ten years incarceration in a series of Russian prisons.  But it's as Hitler's pilot that Baur is best known today.  Baur does give us some small insights into what it was like to have been a member of Hitler's innermost circle, but his narrative is scrupulously apolitical and while he must have known Hitler and his cronies rather well, he refrains from giving us any personal assessment of what they were really like as individuals.  It is evident he admired and respected Hitler and he claims to have been a friend of Rudolph Hess, but what did he really think of these men?  Even more frustrating to the historian, after serving Hitler for more than a dozen years and then, as a result of this loyal service, spending a decade in Soviet hands after the war, Baur just ends his story with a description of his homecoming.  We do not know at the end of this book what Hans Baur thought about National Socialism and what it did to Germany and millions of his countrymen, much less himself (he lost a leg in the Berlin fighting).  Perhaps he remained an ardent admirer of Hitler?  Fine, a man like Baur is entitled to his opinions, but he doesn't say.  Baur was a brave, skillful and admirable man in many ways who witnessed close up the most dramatic events of the 20th century.  But in \\"Hitler at My Side\\" he emerges in the end as just \\"Hitler's pilot.\\"	2002-07-19
US	51258537	R151Z4EN6M31C	1896944078	375742475	Morevi: The Chronicles of Rafe and Askana	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Li Gong Meets Errol Flynn	This book is an extraordinary example of co-authors working together to produce a seamless story.  I know something about this kind of joint effort having worked with five different co-authors, most recently David Sherman on the Starfist SF series. But &quot;Morevi&quot; is truly an exceptional example of this kind of literary cooperation because I don't believe the two authors have ever met in person -- they did all their work on-line!  I'm sure I know which one wrote which character but Mr. Morris and Ms. Lee have so successfully blended their writing styles that the story comes through as if written by only one person.  Let me tell you from experience, that is really an accomplishment.  What is also outstanding about this book is the fantasy motif that substitutes an Asian myth cycle for the Celtic one that is so common for books in this genre.  Kipling would have been delighted.  Don't look for high fantasy here, this is red-blooded swashbuckling adventure fantasy by two very talented young writers.  I sincerely hope there will be more books from this pair.	2002-07-06
US	51258537	R3HIQD11N81818	1576871304	540127050	New York September 11	Books	1	12	41	N	Y	Great Photography, Exploitative Editing	The simple fact that the editors of this montage included on p. 100 a huge photograph of this country's most recreant politician, Bill Clinton, feeding off the grief of the citizens of New York City, is an insult to those good people and the photographic artists who contributed to this book.  I looked hard but couldn't find one picture of Rudy Giulani.  The publishers of this outrage deserve to be horsewhipped.	2002-05-30
US	51258537	R26KFWUWEH5G8C	0345443748	629151216	Onslaught (Demontech, Book 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Chanson for Beer Drinkers	I have read everything David Sherman's written, including his Vietnam War novels, and liked all of it.  He writes about men in combat from the experience of a man who's been there.  Best of all, he doesn't waste his talent on the officer corps but writes instead about the lot of the enlisted man, the lowest of the low.  But he's also lived a lot of life in general and that's reflected in the characters and worlds he creates in his novels.  Yet \\"Onslaught\\" is something different.  It follows the adventures of its two protagonists,Frangerian Marines Haft and Spinner (the names of places, people, and things in \\"Onslaught\\" are almost as interesting as the story itself!)and there's a good ration of realistic blood and mayhem in this book, as one expects in the novels of Mr. Sherman.  Unlike the hoity-toity \\"knights of the grail\\" you find in so much high fantasy, these Marines are bad dudes in a fight, splitting guys open with axes and the like.  But there is more, an entire world peopled with strange and fascinating characters that stick with you as you turn the pages.  Best of all, there's another book coming in this series.  I have finally discovered David Sherman's secret:  He's a friggin wizard himself and with this book he has thrown an irresistable spell that will separate young men from their beer money.  Aha, money well spent, fellas!	2002-04-27
US	51258537	RAKFQD8RJG9U1	0465049052	475180146	The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Within its context, a Masterpiece	Any serious study of the Third Reich leads inevitably to the Holocaust.  My interest started well over 40 years ago when I lived in Germany and discussed the wartime years with individual Germans freely.  I asked myself, \\"How could these intelligent and decent people have been taken in by Hitler?\\"  And when one considers the Holocaust the question becomes, \\"How could they have done that?\\"  While Lifton's study considers only medical professionals, I think his explanations, \\"doubling\\" (division of the self into two wholes so that one acts as the entire whole), \\"numbing\\" (getting so used to horror you don't notice it anymore), and \\"genocidal bureaucracy\\" (normalizing murder), can be made to apply to everyone involved with the Nazi concentration camp system.  This becomes apparent if you have read Gitta Sereny's examination of Franz Stangl, commandant of Treblinka, or the memoirs Rudolh Hoss, commandant of Auschwitz (superbly edited by Steven Paskuly).  But everyone everywhere uses these psychological devices on occasion and for good reason.  Police officers, for instance, are taught that they must compartmentalize themselves into a \\"street self\\" and a \\"private self,\\" so the private self, the self that is revolted by criminal behaviors, does not assert itself on the streets and cause an officer to take the law into his own hands.  Lifton does not seem to realize this when he tries to draw comparisons between Nazi genocidal murderers and the experiences of Vietnam combat veterans and the arms race.  I think having figured out why A-B-C & D went wrong, he thinks he can apply that formula to everyone else in the alphabet. This applies to many psychologists who spend their lives trying to quantify human beings.  Well, in combat you kill to survive.  The other guy, after all, is trying to kill you.  And the arms race was undertaken because of the very real threat the Soviet Union presented to the freedom-loving peoples of the world.  When it came to murder and concentration camps, the Stalinists were second only to the Nazis.  I lived through all of Vietnam and the Cold War and I say, thank God for strong men armed.  But despite Lifton's left-liberal biases, I gave this book the five stars it so richly deserves. First, Lifton deserves credit for having the courage and endurance to write this book and second, his explanations work, within the context of his subject here, and he is correct that given the proper circumstances, people can be led to condone murder.camps, the Stalinists were second only to the Nazis.  I lived through all of Vietnam and the Cold War and I say, thank God for strong men armed.  But despite Lifton's left-liberal biases, I gave this book the five stars it so richly deserves. First, Lifton deserves credit for having the courage and endurance to write this book and second, his explanations work, within the context of his subject here, and he is correct that given the proper circumstances, people can be led to condone murder.	2002-02-17
US	51258537	R13PYLPWOP7GVD	0967044308	427102612	Heinrich Himmler's Camelot: Pictorial/Documentary, The Wewelsburg, Ideological Center of the SS 1934	Books	4	10	26	N	Y	Heinrich's House of Usher	If all you ever knew about the Third Reich and Heinrich Himmler's SS were what's between the covers of this truly magnificent book, you'd think Himmler an urbane, avuncular gent with a curious interest in arcane history and architecture, not what he really was, one of the most despicably vile mass murderers of modern times.  And you'd also think the SS a collection of nice guys wearing really neat uniforms, not what many of them really were (I largely exempt the Waffen SS who, unlike the Allgemeine SS, put their butts on the firing line), cold-blooded murderers responsible for the enslavement, torture and murder of millions of innocent people. In this book authors Cook and Russell blithely ignore the true context of what was going on in Germany and Europe between 1933-1945 and Himmler's role in those events, but they do take the time to slam the United States for its &quot;genocide of many Native American Indians&quot; and our &quot;200 years of pernicious benevolence.&quot;  Yet I give this book four stars anyway because it is truly a beautiful effort, handsomely bound and printed, lavishly illustrated, meticulously researched and well written.  It is like a quality SS dagger by Boker, a thing to hold and behold.  Any serious student of the Third Reich will want to read this book because it does shed some light on Himmler's mindset and world view.  That view, enshrined at Wewelsburg, was the pernicious doctrine that the Aryan race was superior to all others.  SS men, utterly immersed in this racial mumbo-jumbo, could on the one hand be loving husbands and doting fathers and on the other sheer monsters in human form.  That is what Wewelsburg stood for during Himmler's reign there.  The authors deliberately obscure this unpleasant fact, concentrating on the castle's renovation, it's superb architecture, rich furnishings, art treasures, and fascinating archeological history. One has the distinct impression they would like to poo-poo what this place really stood for.  While the world may not be a better place now that the treasures of Wewelsburg have been dispersed along with Himmler and his minions, it's certainly, if only a little, safer.While the world may not be a better place now that the treasures of Wewelsburg have been dispersed along with Himmler and his minions, it's certainly, if only a little, safer.	2001-10-18
US	51258537	R39LASGSUPC7Z	0297768107	596604793	Reich Marshal: Biography of Hermann Goering	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	The Fat Man Reduced	Of all the leading figures of Hitler's Third Reich, Hermann Goering is one of the more interesting if not the most sympathetic.  Leonard Mosley, an accomplished journalist and biographer with a long list of excellent books to his credit, gives us here a highly readable and entertaining biography of Hitler's onetime deputy.  This is not a scholarly work along the lines of the biographies of other Nazi personalities such as Ian Kershaw has done for Hitler, Peter Padfield for Himmler, or Ralf Reuth for Goebbels; don't look for meticulous endnotes or deep analysis.  That is not because Mosely did not use sources, he did and he lists them at the end of the book.  Mosely gives us here a full-length portrait of Goering the man as he was in real life -- bigger than life, that was Hermann Goering -- and while Mosely is sometimes sympathetic and sometimes judgmental, he is honest and I think in the end he succeeded admirably in capturing the essence of this intriguing and tragic figure.  Mosely has one great advantage over other biographers, however:  He actually met Hermann Goering before the war, was a guest at his estate in East Prussia, and after the war conducted extensive interviews with people who knew the Reichsmarshal intimately his whole life. That sets him apart from other biographers.  While I disagree somewhat with Mosely's conclusion that Goering's greatest fault was his lack of moral courage to stand up to Hitler, that certainly was a defect in his makeup.  But I think this book proves that Goering had no control over his relationship with Hitler.  He, like many others, couldn't stand up to Hilter simply because he worshipped the man.  In Goering's particular case, he was totally under the influence of the Fuhrer's charismatic personality and so dependent upon him for so long that in the end it was impossible for him to contradict the dictator.  And when his god rejected him and then failed him, and Goering knew in the end that Hitler had failed him, there was nothing he could do but accept his fate. Those who condemn Hermann Goering because he didn't have the courage to defy his idol have not been put to that test themselves.  For the serious student of the history of the Third Reich, this book is a valuable source.nothing he could do but accept his fate. Those who condemn Hermann Goering because he didn't have the courage to defy his idol have not been put to that test themselves.  For the serious student of the history of the Third Reich, this book is a valuable source.	2001-10-17
US	51258537	R21HKIT7XMN1VZ	0060186380	795309718	Call Each River Jordan: A Novel of Historical Suspense	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Owen Parry Just Rolls On	Every writer of fiction strives for the deathless opening sentence, the string of words so powerful they remain burned into the reader's memory long after he has put the book aside.  &quot;Call Each River Jordan,&quot; Owen Parry's third book in his ongoing chronicle of Abel Jones's adventures during the American Civil War, begins with a stunning opening sentence:<br />&quot;I remember the burning men.&quot;<br />That was Shiloh, April 6-7, 1862, and Abel Jones, gimpy leg and all, is right in the thick of it.  This opening chapter of &quot;Call Each River Jordan&quot; is a riveting and emotionally exhausting tour of &quot;Bloody Shiloh.&quot;  You know that in real life Mr. Parry must have walked over the battlefield but what elevates his recreation of that climactic event above the mere analytical military study is the eerie sense that Parry was THERE, that through some myserious ability he was able to look back in time into the Maelstrom of the battle.  This kind of historical insight characterizes Mr. Parry's previous books, but here it virtually overwhelms you.  That's the kind of writing that marks a truly great literary talent.<br />Oh, and there is a great mystery here too.  Someone has committed a mass murder so terrible, so potentially damaging to both the Southern and Northern causes, that Major Jones is sent under a flag of truce behind the Confederate lines to seek his enemy's help finding the perpetrators.  Here Mr. Parry's ability as a portraitist of human character shines through in the likes of Billy Sherman, P. T. G. (&quot;Old Borey&quot;) Beauregard and the ragtag soldiers he led.  All these people are seen through the eyes of the abstemious Abel Jones, loyal Union man bred in the strict tradition of Welsh Methodism.  If Jones appears a little too righteous at times and a little too opinionated, well, that's our Abel, and in real life (which these books are becoming to me!) we'd expect him to be no other way.<br />Now I have written fiction in my time and even gotten some of it published.  I have read good stuff too, the Sharras, MacKinley Kantor, Bernard Cornwell, Joseph Stanley Pennel, Mary Johnston (yes, give the lady credit, you'd think she marched with Stonewall Jackson) and those writers, while they have often written stuff as good as Owen Parry's, none of them, not one, has written better than you'll read here.time and even gotten some of it published.  I have read good stuff too, the Sharras, MacKinley Kantor, Bernard Cornwell, Joseph Stanley Pennel, Mary Johnston (yes, give the lady credit, you'd think she marched with Stonewall Jackson) and those writers, while they have often written stuff as good as Owen Parry's, none of them, not one, has written better than you'll read here.	2001-10-14
US	51258537	R37BHPU345IJVI	0887405800	809479584	Knights of the Reich: The Twenty-Seven Most Highly Decorated Soldiers of the Wehrmacht in World War II	Books	3	5	14	N	Y	Brave Men, Incompletely Considered	That Gunther Fraschka is a hero worshipper, not a biographer and certainly not a scholar, is painfully evident in this collection of sketches purporting to commemorate the deeds of Hitler's greatest heroes.  Worse, his writing style is atrocious (or Johnston's translation is), consisting of prose more appropriate to a high-school essay than a serious study of the essence of heroism, and the 27 men considered here certainly qualify as subjects for any such investigation.  I invite the reader to consider Fraschka's essay on Genraloberst der Waffen SS Joseph (&quot;Sepp&quot;) Dietrich.  Fraschka completely glosses over Dietrich's involvement in the &quot;Roehm Putsch&quot; of 1934 and the Malmedy massacre in 1944. I would not expect him to pillory Dietrich for whatever real responsibility he had in these events, but I hoped for an honest appraisal, not the gloss he gives us here.  I would like to believe too that Dietrich stood up to Hitler, but Fraschka cites no sources for writing that he did, nor does he give a shred of evidence that he approved of the July 1944 assassination plot.  It would be nice to know that this man was as brave in front of Der Fuhrer as he was in front of the Russians.  But I give this book 3 stars anyway.  In this age of &quot;leaders&quot; who've never worn a uniform much less placed their sacred persons in harm's way for a cause larger than themselves, men who have made careers out of living off the public interest, men who order others to do what they'd never dare themselves, men who cannot even control their base animal instincts, the deeds of the 27 Knights whose stories appear in this flawed book nevertheless shine brightly.  Read it, but with caution.	2001-09-01
US	51258537	R2P4M6V3A0P479	0380976439	596006403	Shadows of Glory	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Spirited End to a Long Summer	Just as I was beginning to wilt in this summer's heat, along comes Owen parry with &quot;Shadows of Glory,&quot; the second in his projected series of novels detailing the adventures of Abel Jones during the American Civil War.  &quot;Shadows&quot; picks up where &quot;Faded Coat of Blue,&quot; the first book in the series ends. Protagonist Abel Jones, the Welsh immigrant, is now promoted to major in the Union Army and a &quot;confidential&quot; agent of the U. S. government, is dispatched to the Finger Lakes region of New York State.  There's something ominous brewing up there.  Federal agents have been murdered and there are strange doings in the neighborhood of Penn Yan and Lake Keuka.  Are the Rebels at work up there?  Well, Jones is just the man to find out what.<br />Upstate New York?  The Civil War?  How can anyone tie the two together?  Well, Parry does and he does it with the same mastery of place, time, character and language that made &quot;Faded Coat of Blue&quot; such a refreshing plowing of that hallowed literary ground that was the Civil War.<br />Now I come from those parts where the story takes place and Mr. Parry has walked the hills and lakeshores up there, wandered through those haunted woods and immersed himself in the mid-nineteenth century history of Upstate New York.  Almost forgotten now is the Spiritualist movement that enthralled Americans back in the 1850s and '60s.  The Spiritualists thought they could communicate with the dead through &quot;mediums,&quot; mostly rather ordinary women through whom the dead were believed to communicate with the living when the medium was in a state of unconsciousness or &quot;trance.&quot;  Many prominent people, among them the clergy, believed in Spiritualism.  The movement plays a big part in this story and Parry to his credit treats it not with ridicule but with the respect any historical event deserves.  But there is one incident in this book that made the hair stand up on the back of my neck. Maybe there was something to it after all?<br />Historical figures who were very much a part of the 1860s scene in Upstate New York -- Susan B. Anthony and Fredrick Douglass -- make appearances.  Abel Jones looks at these greats through the eyes of a contemporary, a refreshing view to say the least!<br />But what's going on up there?  Why is Secretary of State Seward concerned?  Is it the Irish immigrants, the dreaded Fenians?  Are Confederate agents at work?  What role is the &quot;learned professor,&quot; Master of Spiritualism, Mesmerism, Egyptology, Kildare (or is it Kilraine?) playing?  What is he doing up in Rochester, meeting with a high-born Englishman?  And what of the irascible Catholic Priest, Fr. McCorkle?  What does he know that he's not telling?<br />And what of Nellie Kildaire, the Professor's daughter?  Does she really talk to the dead?  Is she insane?  And what is this hold she seems to have on Major Jones, the stalwart Christian soldier?<br />Overshadowning everything is nature, the woods, mysterious and deep, the isolation of the farms in the countryside and one of the worst winters anybody can remember.<br />Parry keeps us in touch with the war in the South through letters written to him by Mick Tyrone, the Irish-born surgeon now serving with Grant in Cairo, Illinois.  This is a delicious literary tool because I suspect these letters are harbingers of stories yet to come before our resourceful Mr. Parry is done.<br />Owen Parry has done it again.  If this book does not establish him as one of the best contemporary writers of historical fiction in America, he's certainly one of the most original.  Come on, book No. 3!there was something to it after all?<br />Historical figures who were very much a part of the 1860s scene in Upstate New York -- Susan B. Anthony and Fredrick Douglass -- make appearances.  Abel Jones looks at these greats through the eyes of a contemporary, a refreshing view to say the least!<br />But what's going on up there?  Why is Secretary of State Seward concerned?  Is it the Irish immigrants, the dreaded Fenians?  Are Confederate agents at work?  What role is the &quot;learned professor,&quot; Master of Spiritualism, Mesmerism, Egyptology, Kildare (or is it Kilraine?) playing?  What is he doing up in Rochester, meeting with a high-born Englishman?  And what of the irascible Catholic Priest, Fr. McCorkle?  What does he know that he's not telling?<br />And what of Nellie Kildaire, the Professor's daughter?  Does she really talk to the dead?  Is she insane?  And what is this hold she seems to have on Major Jones, the stalwart Christian soldier?<br />Overshadowning everything is nature, the woods, mysterious and deep, the isolation of the farms in the countryside and one of the worst winters anybody can remember.<br />Parry keeps us in touch with the war in the South through letters written to him by Mick Tyrone, the Irish-born surgeon now serving with Grant in Cairo, Illinois.  This is a delicious literary tool because I suspect these letters are harbingers of stories yet to come before our resourceful Mr. Parry is done.<br />Owen Parry has done it again.  If this book does not establish him as one of the best contemporary writers of historical fiction in America, he's certainly one of the most original.  Come on, book No. 3!	2000-09-23
US	51258537	R69TDZL1BY84G	0380976420	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue	Books	5	3	3	N	N	You will long remember this book	The worst thing about FADED COAT is that it is far too short; the best thing is judging by how it ends, we can expect at least one more book featuring Welsh immigrant, Captain Abel Jones, a protagonist as engaging  and original as any to appear in American fiction in recent times. (Note:  Abel Jones hates horses.  Of course, he's an infantryman, and I bet Owen  Parry knows something about life in the infantry and I bet too that has  more than a whiff of Wales in his own background, because Abel Jones rings  as true as Merthyr Tydfil.)<br />The most extraordinary thing about FADED COAT  is how it is so faithful to its time and place.  While Abel Jones tells his  story in retrospect, revisionism never creeps into the plot.  In this  regard, the novel's title is particularly revealing.  Written late in the  war by J. H. McNaughton, the ballad &quot;Faded Coat of Blue,&quot;  expresses the sorrow of all familes, North and South, who lost loved ones  in the war.  Lugubrious as its lyrics are, they reveal the common  19th-century attitude toward death and dying:  that they were normal  aspects of everyday life, the price people in those days paid for being  born.  Had a song like that been written during World War II, nobody would  have published it, so much had attitudes changed since the 1860s. That Mr.  Parry understands this profound cultural change between then and now is a  tribute to his skill as an historical novelist.<br />FADED COAT is no KILLER  ANGELS.  Great leaders and battles are only peripheral to this story and  Parry makes no attempt to explore the motivation or psychology of the war's  leaders.  His one battlefield episode (and a great chase scene near the  end) are on a par with those in Bernard Cornwell's superb Sharpe and  Starbuck novels, but frankly, Abel Jones is a character much more finely  drawn than the hero of the Starbuck Civil War Series.<br />And this book is  no COLD MOUNTAIN.  That is good.  Charles Frazier's Inman is a deserter but  Able Jones would sooner die than desert his cause.  We can all understand  running away but what is harder to comprehend is why men will stand and  face danger, death and disgrace.  I think Parry does understand that and he  conveys it to us through the character of Captain Abel Jones. And Parry,  unlike Frazier, does not tell his story by drawing on all the tired old  plot conventions of every classic written since Homer.<br />FADED COAT reminds  me most of Joseph Pennell's ROME HANKS, because it tells not the story of  the war but of the age.  FADED COAT OF BLUE pits a very fine, highly  developed literary talent against the hallowed and oft-plowed ground of  Civil War America.  In the final analysis, the only adjective that fits the  heart and the guts and the feel of this novel is &quot;Dickensian.&quot;  Owen Parry's writing is comparable to that of the great English novelist  because he writes about the lives of ordinary people in the most  extraordinary way.ble Jones would sooner die than desert his cause.  We can all understand  running away but what is harder to comprehend is why men will stand and  face danger, death and disgrace.  I think Parry does understand that and he  conveys it to us through the character of Captain Abel Jones. And Parry,  unlike Frazier, does not tell his story by drawing on all the tired old  plot conventions of every classic written since Homer.<br />FADED COAT reminds  me most of Joseph Pennell's ROME HANKS, because it tells not the story of  the war but of the age.    FADED COAT OF BLUE pits a very fine, highly  developed literary talent against the hallowed and oft-plowed ground of  Civil War America.  In the final analysis, the only adjective that fits the  heart and the guts and the feel of this novel is &quot;Dickensian.&quot;   Owen Parry's writing is comparable to that of the great English novelist  because he writes about the lives of ordinary people in the most  extraordinary way.	1999-10-09
