US	51252405	R15EDD37KDRHED	0786864672	238592733	Pure Drivel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Much funnier than I expected	A quick glance at the other user reviews on this page show an exceptionally wide variance of opinion.  Some say \\"Funny,\\" some say \\"Not funny.\\"  Gee, that's helpful.  So, will YOU find it funny?  Sample this paragraph from the essay \\"Changes In the Memory After Fifty\\" and I think you'll know: <br /> <br />\\"Let's say you've just called your best friend, Joe, and invited him to an upcoming birthday party, and then, minutes later, you call him back and invite him to the same party again.  This does not mean you are 'losing it' or 'not playing with a full deck' or 'not all there,' or that you're 'eating with the dirigibles' or 'shellacking the waxed egg' or 'looking inside your own mind and finding nothing there,' or any of the demeaning epithets that are said about people who are peeling an empty banana.  It does mean, however, that perhaps Joe is no longer on the list of things you're going to remember.  This is Joe's fault.  He should have a more memorable name, such as El Elegante.\\" <br /> <br />I don't know about you, but I giggle all the way through that paragraph each time I read it.  Martin has always displayed a real love of words, and a delicious sense of the absurd, that perhaps doesn't translate well in today's world of dumbed-down books where authors are told that they must write to a sixth-grade reading level if they want to be successful.  Maybe that's why I appreciate this little book so much.  It's a collection of pieces that are, for the most part, short enough to be read in the necessary room during one's necessary visits there, and frankly I'm often too busy to read much anywhere else.  Wonderful little book, love it love it love it!	2005-09-10
US	51252405	R2BX3Z6BZCEJYL	1564598268	278701221	Scientific Fasting: The Ancient and Modern Key to Health	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Written by a murderer	It's unbelievable to me that this book is still available.  Ms. Hazzard was one of many early 20th century quacks who sold various kinds of fake cures.  She specialized in luring people to her sanitarium and starving them to death.  See [...] for details.	2005-05-06
US	51252405	R3QWJKWIBIDA8A	014009766X	823772714	The Complete Father Brown (Father Brown Mystery)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	"The little priest was not an interesting man to look at."	G.K. Chesterton's \\"Father Brown\\" stories are indeed second only to the Sherlock Holmes mysteries, in my mind, among British mysteries.  Chesterton writes with a more poetic hand, his language often breathtaking in its prose:  \\"The Vernon Hotel, at which The Twelve True Fishermen held their annual dinners, was an institution such as can only exist in an oligarchical society that has almost gone mad on good manners.  It was that topsy-turvy product---an 'exclusive' commercial enterprise.  That is, it was a thing that paid not by attracting people, but actually by turning people away.\\"  A deep love of words is one of the advantages of Chesterton over Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Holmes stories.  The flip side of this is that Doyle wrote with more economy of words, which is a different gift but equally worthy. <br /> <br />Father Brown is an enjoyable character because of his naievete.  One never quite expects him to solve the puzzles with which he is presented, yet after awhile it just becomes commonplace to read Chesterton's description of his \\"colorless voice\\" and \\"piggish eyes\\" again being vital in uncovering a cause of death or any number of less dramatic mysteries.  He's a Father SpongeBob with an awesome gift, lovable and feckless, winning us over and entering our hearts. <br /> <br />Yet the stories of Father Brown don't attain quite the depth of Holmes.  Partly this is due to the priest being so mysterious; we don't know his background, where he came from, anything at all about his personal quirks, etc., other than his being small and somewhat round, cheerful yet wise in a Pooh sort of way, very sharp in putting clues together, and a bit clumsy.  Whereas any Holmesian could give a full account of the great consulting detective's personality quirks, likes and dislikes, physical traits and habits, home life, acquaintances, etc.  Father Brown is just not as fully drawn, and therefore doesn't as fully get his hooks into our souls. <br /> <br />There is also the unfortunate racist tone sometimes struck by Chesterton, with his offhanded comments about Negroes, Jews, the Celts, or any one of several given ethnic groups, in which he attributes one or another generalized negative trait to that entire subsect of humanity:  The Celts \\"accept easily the superstitious explanation of any incident,\\" or a character's wish that \\"the Jews...should rather find themselves penniless,\\" elsewhere finding it necessary to point out that a minor character was a Jew such as \\"the power of a Jew money-lender living in the manor,\\" or \\"eastern heroes who rode with twelve-turbaned mitres upon elephants painted purple or peacock green; of gigantic jewels that a hundred negroes could not carry,\\" etc. <br /> <br />Unfortunate, but at least these ignorant moments are only occasional and are easily seen as such by modern readers.  The stories themselves are often brilliant, sometimes obtuse, but always a pleasure to read.  Recommended in spite of Mr. Chesterton's prejudices, a product of his time that he apparently was unable to rise above.	2005-03-23
US	51252405	RZ0E8NW5RFT3Z	1556610912	269892823	Life in the Son	Books	5	35	42	N	N	Set me straight	I had personally misinterpreted many passages of Scripture on the subject of Eternal Security for many years until a friend recommended this book.  Wow.  Dr. Shank gives a most thorough and in fact exhaustive study, dressing down every one of my misunderstandings and showing that I was often failing to see the trees for the forest.  His point ultimately is not that we must earn our salvation, of course, but that there can come a point where we can reject the gift God has given.  This falls under the same heading as the \\"unpardonable sin\\" in that it takes quite a bit to get there, but once there it is impossible to renew (Hebrews 6). <br /> <br />\\"Life In the Son\\" is not a breezy read; it is for the serious student of theology and Biblical doctrine.  While the saved person will persevere regardless of his/her understanding of this doctrine, there are many baby Christians who are led into misunderstanding and thus into license.  For their sake it is critical that we be doctrinally correct, espeically those of us who teach, whether in Bible school, our children, or babes in Christ.  No matter what you've read on this topic, don't think you have it settled until you've read \\"Life In the Son.\\"	2005-03-05
US	51252405	R3H57IF6XTP4J0	0396079040	413094150	Sherlock Holmes in Dallas	Books	1	9	14	N	N	Pathetic	Granted, the author has done a lot of research into the JFK assassination and has clearly developed his own conspiracy theory.  But tricking anyone into reading it by inserting an aged Sherlock Holmes as the investigator of the events, well, that's a miserable thing to do.  It'd be acceptable if the writer had some minor grasp of Holmes, and the style in which he deserves to be presented, but his portrayal of Holmes and Watson here is as accurate as the cartoon Three Stooges were to the real thing.  In short, one of the worst books I've ever read.	2005-03-03
US	51252405	R2YR18UL2KHJRH	0764228706	199629594	What a Daughter Needs From Her Dad: How a Man Prepares His Daughter for Life	Books	5	54	63	N	N	For the Christian counterculture	How does a God-fearing father deal with some of the explosive issues facing him and his daughter in this world of dreadfully loose morals?  How can he help his precious little one(s) correctly face the questions and issues that are inevitable in the process of becoming a full-grown woman? <br /> <br />One thing he must not do is ignore these issues and fade into the background, expecting his wife to deal with it alone, even if she is present and willing and capable.  Certainly there are some issues where mommy is uniquely qualified, but a father's perspective is important to his little girl even in these areas.  Fatherhood is not for wimps. <br /> <br />That's the beginning of Mr. Farris's wise and insightful advice in this gem of a little book, one that bears reading and rereading.  He writes from a conservative Christian perspective, a point of view for those of us who know that God's Word still speaks to our lives and guides us through what is often a trashheap of society around us.  His advice is very much counterculture, but the Bible tells us we are to not allow worldly philosophies to undermine the timeless Judeo-Christian values we hold dear.   <br /> <br />Many times it's hard to know how to walk the razor's edge between prudishness and an appropriately joyful Christian life that can be seen as such by those around us, especially our daughter's peers, but Mr. Farris gives us the benefit of his experience in raising six little girls in today's world.  His input is priceless.	2004-12-28
US	51252405	R33D9PYJNYW39O	0440236304	35995058	Currahee!: A Screaming Eagle at Normandy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Without fanfare	Just like the real thing, the author tells his story without fanfare.  No Hollywood special effects, music, embellishments, etc., this reads just like you're sitting with Burgett over a cup of coffee and a game of checkers as he recounts the horrors he and his \\"buddies\\" went through to rid the world of fascism.  I agree with the other positive things said about this book on his page, so let me let the author speak for himself in a few quick, unforgettable excerpts, as this book has many: <br /> <br />After breaking his leg on his first practice jump:  \\"The only way I could travel was to lie on my side, throw the chute forward, crawl to it, and repeat the procedure over and over again.  Finally another jeep came up and this time a sergeant leaned over the steering wheel and said, 'That's the spirit we like around here,' and then drove off.  I crawled for what seemed to be hours.\\" <br /> <br />On the early morning hours of June 6, 1944, having just dropped behind enemy lines:  \\"Another plane came in diagonally over the field....then I saw vague, shadowy figures of troopers plunging downward.  Their chutes were pulling out of the pack trays and just starting to unfurl when they hit the ground.  Seventeen men hit the ground before their chutes had time to open.  'That dirty SOB pilot,' I swore to myself, 'he's hedgehopping and killing a bunch of troopers just to save his own ass.  I hope he gets shot down in the Channel and drowns real slow.'\\" <br /> <br />War is hell:  \\"The two German prisoners tried to climb the steep bank behind them, but just as they got to the top, Brininstool fired his tommy gun.  Both of them slid down, whirled around, and were slammed back against the bank so hard by the .45 slugs that their eyes popped out of their sockets and hung down on their cheeks.  What kept them standing is a mystery to me, but neither one fell.  They just stood in a leaning position, side by side against the dirt wall, with arms hanging loosely at their sides.  From theexpressions on their faces they must have just looked through the open gates of hell.\\" <br /> <br />Near the end of his time in Normandy:  \\"Suddenly a strange smell came to our noses and wisps of a funny looking smoke crept over the hedges from our left.  It clung close to the ground and moved slowly toward us.  Phillips looked back at me.  His eyes were round and wide.  'Gas,' he exclaimed.  'What'll we do now?' 'Nothing,' I said.  'Just stay here and die, I guess.  I wish I had my gas mask now.'  'So do I,' said Phillips and Benson together.  They had been the first things we had thrown away.\\" <br /> <br />I did not preselect the above excerpts.  I literally spent a very few minutes leafing through the book, finding a striking passage, and typing it for you.  Burgett's experiences are all as rich as the above, about 200 pages' worth in paperback packed with such horrific stories that make one truly appreciate the sacrifices and bravery of such men in that era and, by extension, the current one. <br /> <br />My only nitpick with the book is that the author several times mentions an event without giving the result; for example, the two paratroopers who got into a drunken knife fight and were taken to the hospital by the MPs.  Their fate is never revealed beyond being taken from the bar, and surely the camp was abuzz with stories about them; for some reason, we don't know whatever became of them.  This is still a five-star book, however, because of the matter-of-fact tone and unmistakeable realism with which Burgett tells his remarkable tale.  Very highly recommended.	2004-08-12
US	51252405	R2YW01UF4W3TC6	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Needs some editing	It's my habit with books that are made into films that I like to see the film first, then read the book to get the rest of the story.  Inevitably large chunks of the written story have to be cut out for the sake of time, and Patriot Games is another that falls into this category.  It's also one of those stories that gets reworked rather radically for the screen, but the filmmakers fortunately were able to capture the general tone of this novel quite well, I think.  That makes the movie introduction of two major characters, and the deletion/reduction of several others, more palatable.  Patriot Games has the distinction of being one of the few such works I've read/seen that manage to be very different yet quite satisfying in both media, and in fact there's so much fat in the novel that was trimmed out for the screenplay that it makes the reader positively yawn at some points. <br /> <br />Hey, far be it from me to squawk about the length of a novel.  I mean, Crime and Punishment remains a personal fave, and it drones on and on.....but does so in an excrutiatingly fascinating way. <br /> <br />The main flaw in Patriot Games, however, is that it does go on a bit too much, wandering sometimes into places where it has no business.  But that one flaw, however distracting, cannot change the fact that Clancy does an expert job of drawing the characters with such fine brush strokes and detailing the action so carefully that his pace works beautifully, so that the too-slow first half of the book gives way to a compelling final few chapters.  Still, it's a good thing I'm patient or I would've given up too soon. <br /> <br />In reading Patriot Games, one cannot help but visualize Harrison Ford, Samuel L. Jackson, James Earl Jones, etc., in the roles written by Clancy in this story of Irish terrorism, written in 1987 long before Middle East problems so rudely interrupted our blindly idyllic American bliss.  An IRA splinter group has been thwarted in a violent attempt at the RoyalFamily (thinly veiled Charles & Diana, back when they seemed happy), and our hero Jack Ryan is the one who stopped them.  The motivations are different in the film, and more compelling, actually, one of the rare moments when I believe a screenwriter improves on his/her source material. <br /> <br />God bless Clancy for his stubborn insistence on making the heroes of this story out to be real heroes, rather than the flawed antiheroes of our recent past, and for showing us a married couple who is still madly in love and passionate for each other sexually, Charles & Di notwithstanding.  Most storytellers in various media seem intent on showing that unmarried sex and romance are more exciting, which is usually bunk, and Jack & Cathy Ryan are fictitious personifications of this. <br /> <br />I'm giving Patriot Games a very mixed almost-four stars, because it did gather enough steam to become a real page-turner, but I really prefer the perfectly-paced movie version.  Somebody really needed to trim the fat for Clancy, and apparently it took a screenplay to keep his story from meandering too far.	2004-07-31
US	51252405	R29JHQKUASLD9N	0812510011	150216452	N-Space	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A collection as unique as the author	At one time the term &quot;science fiction&quot; caused eyebrows to raise.  &quot;Isn't that reading for losers who can't relate to others well?&quot;  Larry Niven is one of the authors who forever changed the way SF is perceived, one whose fiction emphasizes science without cutting short on any of the tools of your typical brilliant writer of fiction.  This gives us well-sculpted characters, even in the shortest of stories, with eye-opening and theoretically sound scientific concepts, plot twists, and remarkable endings.  Satisfying story after satisfying story.<br />What's unique about this collection isn't that it includes a foreward with comments by other authors and fans, or that the author comments on each piece within the collection.  Those are commonplace.  But in Niven's world, he likes to let you into his world in a special way, perhaps by dishing some dirt on an SF mag who rejected a story that turned out to win a Hugo, etc.  He openly questions his finished product, saying that &quot;Today I'd write this story differently,&quot; etc.  As if we could lift the lid on his cranium and step inside for a moment, seeing how the stories are crafted.  Very interesting.<br />Not as interesting as the work, however, another unique thing about this collection:  Not only short stories are collected here, many of which only appeared in one issue of some now-defunct SF mag or other, dating back to the mid 1960s upward to 1990 when this book was first published.  He also includes essays, such as an unforgettable commentary on the problems Superman would have if he tried to mate with Lois Lane, as well as excerpts from his published novels at the time.  A terrific sampler of a terrific author, whose early-70s work &quot;Ringworld&quot; stands as one of the most brilliant works of speculative fiction of all time.  Intelligentsia still debates the validity of its scientific assumptions, and while even Niven admits that most of these have been disproven, how many SF works do you know that sparked so much debate while still being so widely admired?<br />Niven is far, far beyond any alien shoot-em-up author.  This ain't &quot;Star Trek.&quot;  This is real scientific fiction told by a natural storyteller who loves what he does.  We readers love him for it.	2004-07-16
US	51252405	RTNZJAUJDG0BI	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Familiary breeds contempt?	This now-famous set of novels has doubtless affected many thousands of lives for the better.  Because of that I thank God that Lahaye &amp; Jenkins fleshed out their idea and forged ahead with this series.  People needed to hear this message.<br />For me, however, because I am a voracious reader of fiction and having also studied the Scriptures for years in relation to our Lord's return, I must admit this opening installment left me absolutely cold.  Part of that is surely because I know the whole general plot before it all begins, because I'm familiar with the premillenialist point of view on Bible prophecy.  Some of the suspense is lost if one knows the outline before the book is even purchased.<br />But I have more serious problems with &quot;Left Behind&quot; than my own familiarity.  For instance, while I believe the premillenial perspective is largely closer to our future reality than other interpretations of the vastly vague prophecies of our coming end times, I don't buy into it completely.  The concept that God will really cause The Rapture in such a way as to kill so many unregenerated humans by removing Christians who are driving their cars, operating air traffic control centers, flying airplanes, etc., seems problematic.  This isn't a case of the Israelites coming into Canaan and cleansing the land of the corrupted cultures there; this is a case of Christians mingled among those who may be saved, and I can't accept the extrapolation of prophetic exegesis that results in this belief. Ultimately I think those of us who reach heaven will look back and laugh at some of the stuff we believed, and fall down in worship at God's feet for the wisdom He displays, as shown by the way He'll pull all this off.  Never doubt that His way will be far better than anything we've yet figured out.<br />Having said all that, a more basic problem here is that the writing is so, so basic.  Sure, that was done to reach as many people as possible, but the writing is dumbed downSO MUCH that it's painful to try to slow down my mind enough that it doesn't wander.  A book on this subject should be so gripping that it at least holds one's attention, don't you think?<br />This leaves me with the feeling that the &quot;Left Behind Kids&quot; books are superfluous.  This book is as easily accessible to grade school kids as anything I've seen, which is a good and bad thing.  Think of it as &quot;Premillenialism 101:  A Grade School Primer,&quot; and you'll have an appropriate outlook on the character of this novel.  That's not an entirely bad thing, obviously, but this reader prefers something on a more grownup level and won't be cracking open any of the sequels to this megahit.	2004-07-09
US	51252405	R3LLDKNBY48XG9	0891075275	145017176	Piercing the Darkness	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An engaging story, but disappointing sequel	As in &quot;This Present Darkness,&quot; the first of this two-novel series, Peretti gives us glimpses into the spiritual warfare going on invisibly around us.  His speculation on the nature of the demonic hierarchy is perhaps the most interesting part of this series, but he seems to not develop that much at all here, nor are the angelic guardians of Earth given much more to do than ride in at the last moment to save the day....again.<br />There is, however, a twist to this novel that is actually an improvement on the first.  The plot line concerning the humans in the first novel was an attempt by Satan's forces to overtake an entire college town, and was a bit predictable.  I must admit I prefer the human plot line here, which centers on a mystery regarding a woman named Sally Roe.<br />Overall, however, for whatever reason, this second installment did not draw me in as completely and has not proven as memorable as the original &quot;This Present Darkness.&quot;  Mark this one down as a good idea that was not as well realized as the original.	2004-07-07
US	51252405	RMV5T6OF1MS6E	0312022514	350860262	Masterpieces of Mystery and Suspense	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nice entree to the genre	Quite a satisfactory collection of dozens of short stories, encompassing the mystery subgenres of murder mystery, suspense, and crime fiction.  I've been a longtime Sherlock Holmes reader, and felt a desire to become a bit more acquainted with other characters and stories within this general field.  This volume proves more than adequate for this purpose, including stories by everyone from Agatha Christie to Mark Twain.<br />The most lasting impression, for me, was left by G.K. Chesterton and his &quot;Father Brown&quot; detective stories, one of which is included here.  A sleuth more unlike Holmes one will never find, but the tale of &quot;The Blue Cross&quot; is just as readable and pleasurable as anything from the pen of the great Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.<br />This book is also probably quite useful to fans of the genre as a means of collecting many short stories not otherwise readily available, but as I'm not an expert I'll leave that open to conjecture.  Suffice to say that Chesterton is not the only author in this book whose work leaves me wanting more.  While several of the stories are a bit obvious even to a novice mystery reader like me, most are very enjoyable and suspenseful to the last moment.  &quot;The Nuggy Bar&quot; indeed......	2004-07-07
US	51252405	R2PAVXKRBNQ328	0842361715	145017176	This Present Darkness	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Just beneath the surface......	Of the Christian novels I have read, this is easily the best.  The followup, &quot;Piercing the Darkness,&quot; is a disappointing sequel, and the famous &quot;Left Behind&quot; series left me cold before I had finished the first installment, being sadly predictable and written in such a superficial style that it seemed to have been solely aimed at a junior high school reading level.  Peretti's style, however, is more advanced and draws in the more experienced readers among us as well as those younger.  <br />We humans are bound by our five physical senses.  Beyond that, we have little idea what may be happening among the principalities and powers of the air.  Scripture gives us a few glimpses, and long religious tradition has fleshed out some ideas, of what is going on between the powers of darkness and the powers of light.  In this novel Peretti does a credible and intriguing job of putting names and personalities to the various characters and forces involved in the spiritual warfare around us and within us, and the story ultimately is unforgettable.<br />My only quibbles with this excellent work are that the answers to these issues are a little too pat, the solutions to the problems a bit too neat.  I am fully willing to admit that this may be my own lack of spiritual perception regarding the invisible realm, but it just smacks sometimes of being a bit too easy and convenient, as if the book too often allows its built-in deus ex machina to intrude on the action.  Still, the book is well worth four stars and worth reading and rereading.	2004-07-07
US	51252405	R36GD76GSXHEY6	0812555376	125695331	Passing Judgment	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hot buttons and shades of gray	There's a book review cliche that goes like this:  \\"I couldn't put it down.\\"  Pardon me if it applies.<br />You can get a look at the synopsis of this novel above this review, so I'll not repeat the plot or names of characters etc. here.  My praise for the book goes to the writer himself, who manages to weave his written tapestry in shades of gray with only a couple of solid blacks and whites.  As the book deals mostly with the seamy side of Hollywood (or at least one seamy film with some horrible incidents attached to its production) and with the misbegotten deeds of a few Christians whose judgment seems to have left them at least momentarily, there are hot buttons a-plenty.  The filmic exploitation of young attractive girls, the power and wealth that comes to the most gifted televangelists, illicit sex of various kinds, etc., all play a major role in the characters' passing judgment on one another throughout this very well-written volume.<br />The author manages to keep the reader off balance, telling his tale through the eyes of a successful film director who has had to put his career on hold because of some unfortunate incidents surrounding his last movie.  This character has a sour outlook on Christianity because the latest star TV preacher made his name in his hometown, and several of his old friends have risen to various levels of power along with said preacher.  Yet the author does a brilliant job with those shades of gray, as several of the Christians met by the director prove to be most excellent human beings even in the eyes of this jaded Hollywood type.....but not all.<br />On the other hand, the people who knew the director in high school seem to all have an axe to grind with him.  This bears the ring of truth, based on various details of the different relationships, all of which are very nicely laid out for us to read and understand. <br />Ultimately we are left with an exceptionally interesting overview of these relationships, past and present, and the multiple plot lines relating to power in Hollywood, in politics, in religion, etc., all play out in a very satisfying manner, and the reader is left with lots of material for thoughtful moments of reflection and contemplation on these issues.  <br />Ferrell plays fair with the Christian and non-Christian points of view, although he displays a clear prejudice toward those who try to struggle their way through life without faith, only able to cling to another person or a career in fits and starts, even while it is clear that the narrator (the director) is aimless and filled with self-doubt and finds the televangelist and his wife to be blameless people whom he comes to count as dear friends.  One can hope for his redemption beyond the pages of this book, but that's not in the author's mind.  It's those shades of gray, playing around the edges of the hot buttons, that make this book so fascinating from page to page, as the author rolls out his well-laid surprises and, for some bizarre reason, chooses to strew a totally unnecessary and excessive number of F-bombs among his pages as if they were land mines left long after the war is over.<br />If you prefer to not be assaulted by this kind of language, as I do not, then this last bit comes as an advisement, the only reason I would withhold a five-star rating here.  Again, I really couldn't put it down.	2004-06-10
US	51252405	R1IAM824TU3G7L	0750933372	507125781	The Bad Popes (Sutton History Classics)	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Lively history	Whether or not you believe in the pope as the vicar of Christ, it is clear from history that his seat on Earth has been one of the world's most powerful thrones for many centuries.  This is a collection of stories about that subject, and it absolutely rocks.<br />Chamberlin's writing style is clearly not your typical dry, professorial approach.  The subject of this book lends well to an almost popular novel approach and, while Chamberlin manages to refrain from lasciviousness in spite of the often prurient subject matter, his vivid and well-researched commentary makes the characters (pardon the cliche) &quot;come to life.&quot;<br />Catholicism has cleaned its act up in many ways, in spite of recent and ongoing scandals.  Believe it or not, the more current headlines regarding priests etc. pale in comparison to the acts of many past popes.  The desire to wield the power of the papacy has often caused the office to be a purely political goal of many, especially in the dark ages.  The story of the ongoing struggles to gain that power, including such decidedly un-Christian types as the Borgias, helps explain (even for us Protestants) why, even today, many people use the past sins of so-called churches and believers as an excuse to avoid dealing with the reality of Christ.  Some cannot see past the abuses of those who claim His Name (whether they really are His or not) to see His love, and these men are among those who bear most of the blame for that sad state of affairs.  They were instruments of Satan, and these are their stories.	2004-05-28
US	51252405	R1K5PT1WTGVWO7	1891799096	785800233	The Dark Side of Liberalism: Unchaining the Truth	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Real mixed-bag mish-mash of editorials	The accomplished Mr. Kent has a book here that seems to clearly have been rushed to publication for some reason.  While he makes a number of very good points within these pages, the writing is disorganized and herky-jerky, sometimes hard to put down and sometimes hard to pick up.  I am a conservative and have certainly noted the dark side of liberalism, but in a few places Mr. Kent really has to stretch a point to get this across, which will win him no allies.  <br />Fortunately, there is enough meat here to provide solid reasoning and solid evidence that the mean-spirited liberal elite in the U.S. have gotten out of control and, unfortunately, have indeed infiltrated our politics to the point that the American Communist party platforms of pre WWII look alarmingly similar to the liberal platform of our day.<br />As with any such publication, one must read with a critical eye to find what parts of this soup one can take away as one's own, and let the rest simmer until forgotten.  Certainly worth a read, but doesn't make me stand and salute as often as I'd like.	2004-05-15
US	51252405	R1QTI6AP59B4S1	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Hard to put down	I'm amused at some of the reviews posted here regarding this tale.  Some reviewers seem to think this book is Gospel, others seem to think it's fabrication.  If any of them really know one way or the other, why don't they come forward and solve the case for us?<br />Gimme a break.  The fact is that this book, although admittedly not written with the style and flair of a Capote or Crichton, is a personal account of one man's involvement in a remarkable case of a serial killer who came to be known as Zodiac.  The author was working at the San Francisco Chronicle at the time the killings began, and that newspaper was central to the coverage of the gruesome, pointless killings perpetrated by the one or more individuals known as Zodiac.<br />There are inconsistencies in the book because it is a chronicle of the author's investigations.  At one point he thinks a certain person is very involved, becomes convinced he's the guy, then later finds he's probably wrong.  It's a maddening case for many reasons, and this book makes that clear.  It's fascinating, and I found it very hard to put down.  The website zodiackiller.com has arrived at different conclusions than this author, and they are equally valid and interesting.  That does not negate the fact that this book is a good read, unless you're expecting a literary talent on the level of Tom Clancy or Stephen King.	2004-05-15
US	51252405	R1GPVIVXNLW1BP	0781727049	72807702	Stedman's OB-GYN and Genetics Words	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ditto below review	Many transcriptionists do not work just for one specialty like OB/GYN, but cover hospitals and clinics where many types of work are done and dictation must be transcribed.  I have a shelf full of Stedman's books, and this is one that I refer to often.  While much of my work is in heme-onc, that includes a couple of GYN heme-onc specialists, and so the book gets quite a workout.<br />Although the other review here is several years old, I cannot say &quot;ditto&quot; enough to the comments provided by that reviewer.  Stedman's books, in general, are very helpful for the MT, and they update their publications on an ongoing basis.  The hundreds of pages of cross-referenced terms specific to this field will be very helpful if you need correct terminology and spelling, etc., and are unconcerned with definition, photos, etc.  These are just word books, and Stedman's books excel within that niche of the medical publishing marketplace.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R8T29VUDZOH5X	0781733391	360512118	Stedman's Endocrinology Words (Stedman's Word Books)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For an MT specialist or a complete MT reference library	One of the slimmer of the Stedman's volumes, this one deals with its title subject as well as any of their others.  As a general MT who transcribes all types of medical dictation, this book doesn't come in handy often; however, nothing else will do when this book is needed.  Certainly anyone involved closely with specialists in the field must own this book, although again, be warned this is a word book and not a dictionary or encyclopedia.  Its purpose is solely to present the accurate spelling and phrasing of terms in its field, and Stedman's does this better than anyone in the business.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R3B635OGWVWOOY	0781744113	810745148	Stedman's Oncology Words: Includes Hematology, HIV and AIDS (Stedman's Wordbooks)(4th Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Can't transcribe heme-onc without it	As with all of Stedman's word books, this is power-packed and indispensible.  I transcribe for cancer clinics, among other clients, and the people at Stedman's do a great job in this specialty as with all of their word books.  In addition to hundreds of pages of terms related to cancer and diseases of the blood, there is terrific cross-referencing, appendices with details on different staging and classification systems, names and addresses of many major cancer centers (alphabetized by state, excellent idea), chemo regimens alphabetized by diagnosis, etc.<br />You may also benefit from the good deal Amazon offers for pairing this with Stedmans' equally fine Radiology book, or, if you would prefer these on a CD, you will find a CD on this site that has the Oncology and Radiology books gathered onto one CD with images etc.  I couldn't do my job without Stedman's.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	RSGUYSKZXJ9LR	0781738318	814083512	Stedman's Surgery Words: Includes Anatomy, Anesthesia & Pain Management	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Perhaps a bit superfluous	I'm a huge fan of the Stedman's books, as they collect a tremendous amount of terminology under each of several specialized areas for their various books.  A medical transcriptionist must have such books, and I have found in three-plus years that the Stedman's approach is vastly superior to having a single volume with all terms lumped together.<br />However, with the Surgery book I find that the terms I need to look up are usually found under the other specialty headings.  For instance, Nissen fundoplication is a GI procedure that is found in the GI/GU book; I don't need to look in the Surgery book to find that.  There have been some examples when I need to hunt down a word specific to surgery in general, and I cannot find it in a different book; however, that is unusual.<br />Still, there's no denying the superiority of the Stedman's approach to medical word books, and no denying that this is another exhaustive collection of words and phrases necessary to medical transcription and related fields of medical authorship etc.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1TS9W0BOP3006	0877799148	910127685	Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Compact paperback manages to be comprehensive	As a medical transcriptionist with limited office space in my home, even shelf space for my reference material is limited.  I could have gotten a larger, more complete medical dictionary, and frankly there have been times that would have come in handy.  But due to space considerations, this almost pocket-sized (yet very thick) volume has been a very pleasant surprise.  While some features of larger dictionaries are missing, such as cross-referencing and extensive lists under &quot;syndrome,&quot; &quot;disease,&quot; etc., in my line of work I usually only need the spelling of such terms rather than definition, and I have specialty books from Stedman's to provide that; for a quick reference to find definitions of the 35,000 terms in this book, I'm thrilled to have an inexpensive, compact reference like this.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	RICKGFX3DMAFY	0935229221	990500416	The AAMT Book of Style for Medical Transcription	Books	5	61	63	N	N	Indispensible	As far as I am aware, there is no alternative to the AAMT Book of Style of Medical Transcription.  Fortunately, just about everything you could want on the subject is included in this latest edition, the second version and last word on the subject.  It is the standard to which one's transcribed reports will be held.  Unfortunately, the latest edition is for some reason not available on Amazon; go to [...] and search their store to find the 2nd edition of the Book of Style, published in 2002.  It's remarkably well updated and improved.<br />To be a transcriptionist one must not simply type the words being dictated.  One must format the report so that it is readable and makes sense, preferably very clearly at a glance.  The thousands of tips and style points within these covers are necessary to attain that goal.  While I may not agree 100% with each of the individual style recommendations made in this book, my few reservations are overwhelmingly outnumbered by the many suggestions that solve problems in my everyday work and help me create the best work I possibly can.  The price is not cheap, but no one who seriously hopes to make it in this field can be without this publication.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1SZ6A00WGT31T	0934385424	660419190	Vera Pyle's Current Medical Terminology: A Health Professions Institute Publication	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Trying to photograph the speed of light	At one time Ms. Pyle's vaunted publication was indispensible to transcriptionists.  This frequently updated book was a collection of new terms, products, and procedures that served as an adjunct and update to the more mundane and typical word books, providing a clearinghouse of sorts to the more experienced transcriptionist who needed something other than a spelling for hemoptysis, for example.<br />These days, however, although the quality of the book itself cannot be questioned, its usefulness (for me at least) is far surpassed by a simple Google.com search.  While I do sometimes check Ms. Pyle for a term when I'm searching for an unfamiliar phrase, I never find any help there these days.  The technology of medicine moves at the speed of light, and consequently this particular type of printed publication is outdated by the time it hits the shelves of your local medical bookstore.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	RUW5TMPN4XY96	0683307762	825414978	Stedman's Ophthalmology Words	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Transcriptionist's ovation	It seems that Stedman's word books, generally, get a nearly unanimous standing ovation from transcriptionists, and a good head-scratching reply from those who are looking for more detailed information in addition to terminology, phrases, and spelling.<br />Well, that's appropriate.  This ophthalmology word book, and all of the other similar word books Stedman's publishes, are specifically targeted to the niche market of MTs, medical authors, etc., who need specific information on the hundreds of thousands of terms used within the field.  This particular book is valuable because it is so specialized, as terms of ophthalmology are rarely used in other areas.  While many medical terms may apply to a number of specialties, that's just not the case here.  <br />If not for this book, I would be completely lost, for example, in an ER trauma report that deals with an eye injury, and certainly would be lost when having to transcribe a blepharoplasty or even a routine cataract removal.  Stedman's is a gold mine for anyone hoping to advance in the field of medical transcription.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R3DCJWFKSU571Y	0671694138	666453604	Football Hall of Shame 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Semi-worthy sequel	The first &quot;Football Hall of Shame&quot; is an absolute classic, and must be read to be believed.  This followup consists mainly of leftovers that didn't make it into the first book, so it's understandably not quite as terrific, but anyone who gets volume 1 must also have volume 2.  Tremendously fun reading about the players, owners, refs, mascots, fans, etc., who have committed memorable blunders over the years.  Some classic stories, including Joe Montana's little-publicized habit as a practical joker.  Fun fun!	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R2ZZK3JTHB2O29	0671611143	666453604	The Football Hall of Shame	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outrageous!	The series of &quot;Hall of Shame&quot; books would not be complete without these stories of ridiculous, pathetic, laughable, and horrifying acts that have taken place in the history of the gridiron.  I have read, re-read, and re-re-read the various stories in this book, and shared much of it with friends.  <br />For instance, learn of the cheapest owner in the history of pro sports, Harry Wismer, whose New York Titans (which eventually became the Jets) watched all their game film on a single projector, with squads taking turns; whose scouting department consisted of a single copy of Street &amp; Smith's; and whose motto was, &quot;Don't cash your paycheck with anybody you like.&quot;<br />How about the most lopsided score in football history (222-0)?  How about the TV network who forever changed programming history by cutting away from a tight game to show &quot;Heidi,&quot; thereby inventing the phrase &quot;______ will be shown in its entirety at the completion of our game&quot;?  How about the player who cost his team a Rose Bowl victory by running the wrong way with a fumble, ultimately scoring a safety for the other guys instead of a TD for his own?  These are just a very, very few of the dozens of fantastic stories collected here.<br />Better snap yours up quick, as it is out of print and not everyone is willing to let go of a used copy.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R3P7R7SEHG3KNT	072167626X	955549934	Sloane's Medical Word Book (4th Edition)	Books	2	21	22	N	N	Inadequate	I have been a transcriptionist for three-plus years, and I have owned this book for all that time.  I honestly cannot recall a single time this book has been helpful.  It is a small volume, for a medical word book, being about the size of a thick popular paperback novel, which is wholly inadequate for the monstrously huge field of medical words.  <br />It is separated by specialty, and to give an example of how inadequate this book is, let's just compare the number of pages dedicated to a couple of specialties:  For instance, this book gives about 70 pages to ophthalmology, while Stedman's ophthalmology book is 560 pages.  The OB/GYN section is about 60 pages, while Stedman's OB/GYN book is over 600 pages.  <br />It's for good reason the sections are so small in this book.  For instance, under &quot;orbital&quot; in the ophth section we find 10 entries (orbital apex, orbital cellulitis, etc.).  Looking under &quot;orbital&quot; in the Stedman's ophth book we find about 120 entries (orbital abscess, orbital adipose tissue, orbital akinesia, etc.).  The MT who hears a hurried eye doc state &quot;orbital akinesia&quot; will find zero help from Sloane.  That, obviously, is just one of many such examples I could give.<br />And, I'll point out, my page totals above for the Stedman's books do not include their multiple appendices, which are also very helpful; this book has no such feature by specialty.  I learned quickly that I'd always do better to check my Stedman's specialty word book first, and consequently haven't had reason to use this because it is missing *so much* information.<br />You get what you pay for.  If you need to work independently as an MT, this cheapo approach won't help you much.  If you can find any way to lay out a few hundred dollars for a set of Stedman's word books or CDs, you'll be way ahead of the game.  I may throw this book into our next garage sale, as it just takes up office space for no good reason.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1U1GEUVKJOW9B	0683017330	435035190	Anatomy: A Regional Atlas of the Human Body	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent and well organized	This atlas is arranged and presented in a way that makes all of its information easily accessible and easy to find.  All systems and structures of the human anatomy are shown in various formats, from cutaways to x-rays, with such a wide variety of helps that it's hard to imagine valid criticism.  Tables, legends, indexes, brief verbal descriptions of the pertinent physiological functions, etc.  It's practically impossible to get lost in this well-organized atlas, and beyond its obvious uses for medical students etc., it's an indispensible part of my library for transcription.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	RWD2K77FTHDAL	1570661855	587721790	Medical Phrase Index: A Comprehensive Reference to the Terminology of Medicine (ME128)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Good for a start, but an MT needs more	There is much help here for the medical transcriptionist, but based on my experience I'd expect this is of more help to those only needing general help and not specific, detailed, intense assistance in deciphering the ever-changing world of medical terminology.  The volume is the size of a good, stout English dictionary, and contains well over 1000 pages of words and phrases that the MT must know, but I can't tell you how many times I've been frustrated by searching for a term in this book only to find that I need to instead turn to a Stedman's specialty book (GI/GU, Orthopedics, Oncology, etc.) and find it there after a fruitless search of the MPI.  There are a handful of instances it's worked the other way around, but in my three-plus years as an MT I've learned that I'll rarely find help here and that I should always go to Stedman's first.<br />HOWEVER, having said that, not everyone is able to invest a few hundred dollars in a set of Stedman's medical word books.  While &quot;you get what you pay for&quot; is definitely true in this case, if you're in a situation where you have experienced co-workers who can help with the more specialized phrases you won't find here, this may suffice.  It's not bad by any stretch, but if you need to work independently, this is insufficient.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1ZIMNPYWA3VJ5	0781754402	683861497	Stedman's Medical & Surgical Equipment Words (Stedman's Word Books)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An updated classic	A review on this page refers to this book as being &quot;outdated.&quot;  Well, that reviewer needs the latest edition, obviously.  Stedman's puts out a new edition of each of its books every three years or so, and I get the feeling the other reviewer was looking at a 1998 edition.   Well, here's the latest for 2004.<br />As with all of Stedman's medical word books, this one has several hundred pages of cross-referenced terms for almost any kind of medical and surgical equipment, with listings under company name, general type of equipment, and specialty use of said equipment.  For example, in my 2001 edition &quot;Promex biopsy needle&quot; is found under P and N, while B contains an entry for biopsy needle.  This is golden.<br />The one reservation I have with this particular one of the Stedman's publications is that the field of equipment manufacturing seems to be the fastest-changing there is, and so this one book does indeed become a bit outdated even within the year of its publication.  A good Google.com search is a necessary component to the MT's adequate use of this book.  However, I could not do my job correctly without Stedman's, and this volume has a valuable place in my library as well as any of their specialty books.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1EUHOANT3B9F1	0721617212	356377543	Saunders Pharmaceutical Word Book 2004, 1e	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Big applause!	This book is crucial to the life of a medical transcriptionist.  Updated annually, as the world of pharmaceuticals changes on an ongoing basis, Saunders has the king of drug word books.  They cross-reference medications, list info for the generic and brand name drugs under each (e.g. &quot;acetominophen&quot; and &quot;Tylenol&quot; with same info) to minimize double-lookup, unlike the so-called &quot;Quick Look Drug Book.&quot;  Experimental drugs and discontinued products are listed together with the rest, so one does not have to access a separate appendix.  Strengths of dosage (20 mg, 40 mg, etc.) are given, generics are not capitalized, etc., all critical info for an MT.  Also included is a &quot;sound-alike&quot; list as well as &quot;sound-alike&quot; info within each individual entry, which often is very helpful.  There are other similar publications out there and I've tried several, but Saunders is clearly the best IMO for the transcriptionist's needs.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1M2Q49UIEQDHA	0781738334	206714615	Stedman's Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Words: Includes Histology	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Must-have for transcriptionists	As stated by the other reviewer, yes, this is a list of words.  That's why its title says &quot;Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Words.&quot;  If it were to include definitions, it would be a dictionary, not just a word book.<br />As such, it excels.  I rate it less than 5 stars only because there are several other Stedman's books that I use on an almost daily basis while this one doesn't come in handy quite as often; however, for such necessary items as microorganisms and lab abbrevations this is indispensible.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R22U2QJ484EZM1	0781730589	33063757	Stedman's GI & GU Words: With Nephrology Words	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A cornerstone of a transcriptionist's library	Stedman's publishes a great many word books, all of which are excellent.  They contain hundreds of pages of terms, nicely cross-referenced (e.g. &quot;endoscopic pancreatography&quot; found both under E and P), which is essential.  Their research is ongoing and exhaustive, and results in the best publications of this type.  While some of their specialty books may be done without by the average transcriptionist, GI/GU is a necessity for all MTs but those who transcribe only for a specific specialty like dentistry or psychiatry.  Highly recommended.  Even after three-plus years as a full-time MT, I use mine very frequently.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R38Y02B238X1I6	0781738369	146637155	Stedman's Orthopaedic & Rehab Words: With Podiatry, Chiropractic, Physical Therapy & Occupational Therapy Words (Stedman's Word Book)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Words, not definitions	The use of the Stedman's word books, this being only one of many, is primarily for those in medical transcription and others (medical authors, editors, proofreaders, etc.) who need an authoritative source on correct spelling and terminology.  This is the stated intent of these books, as is clearly spelled out in the foreword of all Stedman's books.  This seems important for me to mention here, as at least one reviewer of this book seemed disappointed that there isn't more information.<br />As a transcriptionist, I assure you that the several hundred pages of cross-referenced terms here are very, very useful in correct transcription of medical dictation.  This section includes musculoskeletal terms and rehab terms, which are exactly its stated contents.  As usual, Stedman's succeeds beautifully in providing an exhaustive collection of terms relating to the areas of interest presented in this book.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	RRT4QNOJ9FWLX	0721685692	71665646	The Language of Medicine: A Write-In Text Explaining Medical Terms (Book with CD-ROM)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Key to success!	The systematic approach to understanding medical terminology is a key to success as a transcriptionist.  Thanks in part to the beautiful way this textbook lays out a method of grasping the concepts involved in this subject, I am now one of the top 10 producers at our company of about 150 MTs.  This book was a great investment.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R1XORU9ZL5LG15	0683404601	810232355	Stedman's Plastic Surgery/Ent/Dentistry Words (Stedman's Word Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stedman's is the best!	Absolutely agree with the earlier review posted below.  This volume was published in 1999, and an updated volume should be coming along soon, but meanwhile, this exhaustive collection of words relating especially to ears, nose, throat, and teeth is without peer.  If you're an MT looking into expanding your library because you've found yours wanting, Stedman's is the place to look, and this book is a crucial part of such a library.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R20TV64OKKXEUA	0781744032	950053940	Stedman's Abbreviations, Acronyms & Symbols	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Stedman's word books necessary for transcription	In reading the other review here, I get the feeling the reviewer isn't using this book correctly.  The stated purpose and intent of each of the Stedman's word books is, quoting the publisher's preface, &quot;to the wordsmiths of the healthcare professions---medical transcriptionists, medical editors and copy editors,&quot; etc.  In doing medical transcription, I have *never* had to abbreviate &quot;mercury,&quot; as transcription must be clear as possible.  Mercury should always be spelled out.  Even a common medical term like KCl (which *is* found in this book under K) must be spelled out as &quot;potassium chloride.&quot;  That is the unsurpassed value of the Stedman's word books.<br />This is one of their books that I use quite frequently.  When listening to dictation, acronyms are often used and are sometimes required to be spelled out even when dictated as an acronym.  This book is loaded with hundreds of pages of acronyms and their meanings.  Also, if a doctor's &quot;F&quot; sounds like &quot;S&quot; or &quot;B&quot; sounds like &quot;V,&quot; this book is extremely helpful in eliminating possible acronyms to find the correct one, because it lists not just the letters (&quot;SUV&quot; for standard uptake value, for example, and no entry for &quot;FUV&quot;) but the meaning also.<br />This book may not be much use for students in medical school, I don't know; but it beautifully meets its stated intent, and that is for MTs, etc., as stated above.  Just as a telephone directory may be no use in giving demographics of any given neighborhood, that is not its purpose; giving chemical symbols for the various elements is not the purpose of a book of acronyms to be used in transcription and medical copywriting/editing/proofreading etc.	2004-05-14
US	51252405	R35JTF58J9J3P7	0425161722	407756967	Net Force (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 1)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Beginning of a worthwhile series	I've read a few of the NetForce novels, including this one that launched the series, and thought I'd pop around and see what some of the Amazon.com users like me thought about them.  I'm really surprised they're not more well received.  Some thoughts in reply to several comments I've seen readers make here:<br />1) Tom Clancy did not write these novels.  He and Steve Pieczenik are listed as \\"created by,\\" and it appears that a writer named Steve Perry may have done most of the actual writing of at least two of the three NetForce novels I've read.  His name is an attention-getter, and it is somewhat odd to me that so many reviewers comment on \\"this isn't Clancy's best work.\\"  Of course not.  It's obviously not his writing, so the books cannot be accurately reviewed from that angle.<br />2) Comments regarding there being less than Clancy's usual tons of technical detail are irrelevant as well.  Personally the technical detail bores me anyway, and there is too much here for my tastes, making it one of the weaknesses of the NetForce series IMO.  YMMV; some reviewers want more technical detail, I want less.  There's enough in this series to be illustrative, but for me (I prefer plot exposition, moving the story along, and character development) the writer stops to explain various weapons more than enough.  It slows the story down, but at least it's not too distracting.<br />3) Someone commented that this series \\"is not written for people who actually use computers.\\"  Ahem.  I have operated a commercial website for several years as a part-time job, and my full-time job is on my PC as well.  I have rebuilt and upgraded entire computer systems by myself with minimal instruction.  I practically *live* in e-mail.  And I do enjoy this series.  Again, perhaps the reviewer was looking for some kind of extensive technical detail on the computer systems and how they function and interface, but gimme a break, that's *work* to me.  I read for pleasure, not to take my work with me into those hours.  The internet crime focus and extensive descriptions of a futuristic virtual-reality-driven internet are definitely interesting reading.<br />Having said all that, the prospective reader of this series must also be aware that it is not just a series of self-enclosed stories but an actual serial of sorts.  One of the bad guys in this novel returns later in the \\"Night Moves\\" book (third in the series), our heroic geek Jay Gridley meets someone in that one who changes his life and becomes part of future episodes, the working relationship between Alex & Toni (with occasional comments about an attraction) bears fruit in future volumes, and Colonel Howard's family life (plus the life of his son Tyrone) is another thread that runs throughout much of the series.<br />The NetForce books realistically include people of multiple races, backgrounds, personalities, interests, religions, politics, etc., and consistently have the interesting multiple perspective of viewing the story through the eyes of various characters.  It also introduces us to some little-known martial arts, primarily from Indonesia, but in the later \\"CyberNation\\" book we get some sharply drawn bad guys and one of them has a Brazilian fighting style.  By and large, this is a series which I will continue to follow with interest.o those hours.  The internet crime focus and extensive descriptions of a futuristic virtual-reality-driven internet are definitely interesting reading.<br />Having said all that, the prospective reader of this series must also be aware that it is not just a series of self-enclosed stories but an actual serial of sorts.  One of the bad guys in this novel returns later in the \\"Night Moves\\" book (third in the series), our heroic geek Jay Gridley meets someone in that one who changes his life and becomes part of future episodes, the working relationship between Alex & Toni (with occasional comments about an attraction) bears fruit in future volumes, and Colonel Howard's family life (plus the life of his son Tyrone) is another thread that runs throughout much of the series.<br />The NetForce books realistically include people of multiple races, backgrounds, personalities, interests, religions, politics, etc., and consistently have the interesting multiple perspective of viewing the story through the eyes of various characters.  It also introduces us to some little-known martial arts, primarily from Indonesia, but in the later \\"CyberNation\\" book we get some sharply drawn bad guys and one of them has a Brazilian fighting style.  By and large, this is a series which I will continue to follow with interest.	2003-08-04
US	51252405	R1HJT0Y081MYM0	0451183665	239863830	A Case of Need	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A case of career change	As is mentioned by other reviewers here, this is Crichton's first novel, a medical mystery written under an assumed name.  Its success convinced him to pursue a career as a writer, rather than medicine.  As it took me two career changes to find my own niche, and about 10 more years than it took Crichton, I can relate.  He made the right move.<br />I ran across this novel in paperback at the library.  Having not read any of Crichton's work since \\"The Andromeda Strain\\" long ago (still a favorite), having been sidetracked from reading much for a few years, I was delighted to find that this very dissimilar story is comparable in terms of not talking down to its audience.  Subjective comment, no doubt, but I read it right after \\"The Client,\\" my first Grisham read, which was a tremendous disappointment in this department, written on a grade school level.<br />Crichton moves his characters in and out of the story well in \\"ACoN,\\" and doesn't make the mistake of shoving his readers' noses into plot points by telling them how to think about what's happening.  The story involves a pathologist, Dr. Berry, who finds that one of his best friends has been charged with a murder that he is sure was not committed by his friend, although at first he only has intangible belief in said friend's innocence. <br />A remarkable travail through the halls of medical power lead him closer and closer to what really happened, and the sense of danger Dr. Berry labors under is relayed quite well through the events of his investigation to clear his friend; no one else wants to disturb the powers-that-be enough to contradict the official story that Dr. Berry's friend is obviously guilty, and that gap forces Berry into the role of investigator, a frame of mind he is familiar with as a pathologist but not from interviewing living people about an event he can't put under a microscope.  The character, thus thrust out of his comfort zone, is certainly rough around the edges and refreshing to read.<br />Crichton's genius partly lies in his ability to present heroic characters who are decidedly unheroic people thrust into extraordinary situations.  Since real life often works like this, handing each of us challenges where we rise or fall to the occasion, his tales ring true even when the events are extraordinary.  I'm now reading \\"Rising Sun\\" and finding the same bluntness of characterization that I appreciate, and am amused to find that other reviewers here think his characterizations are weak.  Hey, Crichton's no Dostoyevsky, but he doesn't talk down to me.  I'm a fan.	2003-07-01
US	51252405	R3DG4PSD45I0J8	0345427181	274183498	The Long Night of Centauri Prime (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Trilogy really picks up steam with book two	Oddly, this trilogy about events on Centauri Prime pretty much follows the flow of the &quot;Babylon 5&quot; series on which it is based:  Lots of character and background in the early going with hit-and-miss action, then a sensational middle to the series/trilogy, and an ending that sputters to a satisfying conclusion.<br />There is little revelatory information in this opening part of the series.  Londo Mollari, former ambassador to the B5 station, becomes emperor of Centauri Prime as had been prophesied and foreseen in the TV series.  He meets a young lady who will have an inestimable impact on his life, and another Centauri female enters from his past and has as big an impact without his knowledge.<br />But mostly Book One is a place where not a lot happens.  We're being set up for the spectacular events of Book Two, however, so it's well worth reading as part of the big picture.  Author Peter David wrote for the series itself, and is certainly familiar enough with the B5 universe to keep the B5 fan from feeling otherwise.	2003-04-21
US	51252405	R1KJX6SCRHHXAC	0345427203	319827805	Out of the Darkness (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	All in all, better than watching reruns for the 5th time	As we enter the time frame shown on the B5 series through time-warp fast forward, the blanks are filled in as to Mollari's death, Vir's ascension, G'Kar's fate, John & Delenn's out-of-time presence in the future, and the Drakh's post-Crusade doings.<br />But there is disappointment here.  After Galen had played such a pivotal role in Book 2, he is barely mentioned here.  The general tone of the book is somewhat anticlimactic, given the events of Book 2.  One finds the tale a bit draggy, rather than having a hard time putting the book down.  There are very few surprises in Book 3, with the conclusion of each major thread of the story coming as an obvious ending rather than having any satisfying twists of irony or vicarious justice.<br />Still, the entire trilogy is well worth a read.  While personally I have read the techno-mage trilogy through twice in less than six months, I doubt I'll be rereading this entire series anytime soon, but I wouldn't have missed it for anything.	2003-04-21
US	51252405	R1LL1STVB1HC06	034542719X	870723409	Armies of Light and Dark (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Vir hits the big time	This middle part of the trilogy is the best page-turner of the three.  While Emperor Mollari becomes increasingly irrelevant to events on his world, the government around him grows into something he would not have dreamed and is powerless to stop.  His former attache, Vir Cotto, finds the undying love of a beautiful woman and is, to his credit, ambivalent about the whole affair.  And the much-beloved techno-mage Galen makes some beautifully crafted appearances, filling in his time away from the Excalibur during the same time frame of the \\"Crusade\\" series.<br />This volume gathers nearly the entire cast of characters from \\"Babylon 5,\\" as they relate to the Centauri homeworld, and uses them variously as foils or informing observers to the action going on with Londo, Vir, and several other major Centauri characters introduced in the first book.  The Drakh, imitating their Shadow masters as the universe's newest evil puppeteers, are setting up the Centauri as their unwitting allies, and one Centauri stands in their way.  On to book three...	2003-04-21
US	51252405	R1XZO7FNDBSO50	0440220599	193814005	Blood Oath: Babylon 5, Book #3	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good story grafted into B5 universe	As I type this there have been about 15 novels published that are set in the B5 universe.  This is one of the first nine, a series initially released by Dell but now being rolled out, one by one, in rerelease by Del Rey's Ballantine series.<br />&quot;Blood Oath&quot; takes place mostly on the Narn homeworld, a place not often seen during the TV series.  It is set somewhere around the end of season 1, during which time the show had focused on the species' recent history of war with the Centauri and the hatred between the two worlds.  The author can therefore be forgiven for painting the Narns as barbarians rather than the sophisticated spiritual culture we see from them later on as the primary Narn character G'Kar developed and grew.<br />And the story told here is really a good one.  The images painted by the author are often vivid and memorable, and the story believable and easy to follow.  He seems to fall down in the action sequences, though, to me, as I often didn't feel the intensity of such scenes.<br />But the real problem with this book is the characterizations of familiar B5 characters.  Again, it was early in production of the show, so we now know these individuals far better than anyone but series creator J. Michael Straczynski did at the time, but it's really jarring to see known and beloved characters saying things that are totally out of voice from what we would expect, in terms of phrases, relationships, idioms, etc.<br />Ultimately it feels like the author had a great story and, when given a contract to write a B5 book, slotted the series characters into a general outline he already had, adapting his outline somewhat to fit a vision that otherwise works well.  He is clearly not as familiar with the characters as one would like.<br />It's worth reading because it truly is well written as a novel, but falls far short as a part of the B5 universe otherwise.	2003-03-08
US	51252405	R2RNN1U9468O7Q	0806114207	939952978	Ghost Towns of Oklahoma	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Ghost Towns of Oklahoma	The history of such a &quot;new&quot; state is intrinsically colorful, and the stages of growth and development make for the rise and fall of towns and small cities for a wide variety of reasons.  The white man mostly ignored Oklahoma prior to the 1840s, giving said growth and development a dynamic unique among the states.<br />The author has collected several dozen stories of such locales, and in addition a vast collection of historical photos and plats, gives regional maps, dates, names, commerce info, populations, etc.  His monographs on each &quot;ghost town&quot; (a few of which still exist but are seemingly at the end stage of their existence) are well written, informative, and suitably colorful.<br />Oklahoma has towns that were relocated en toto for the building of reservoirs, towns that were founded as socialist experiments, towns that served primarily as Indian trading posts and withered with the relocation of tribes, etc.  Each story is intriguing in its own right, history buff or not.  The only reason I rate it less than five stars is its publication date of 1978; an update with rewrites and newly mined information would be wonderful.	2002-01-14
