US	51250638	R2BYMSTTT4WM5H	0886777712	19897430	King's Dragon (Crown of Stars, Vol. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Start to the Series	Kate Elliot has established a world loosely based on our own Middle Ages, especially in the religion aspect.  The major difference with their religion is that it is a Lord and Lady based religion, and when God is referred to, it is used in plural form.  In other words people would say \\"God are good\\" rather than \\"God is good.\\" Another difference in Elliot's world is that male and female are considered equal, unlike the male dominated society of our Middle Ages.<br />The story centers around the realm of Wendar, ruled by King Henry. In Wendar, religion plays a major part of everyday life and sorcery is illegal.  Of course, since magic is an ability you're born with and need to learn to control, there will be people that learn the art of sorcery in secret.  Liath and her father are good examples of this.  Liath's father has been teaching her forbidden knowledge and they have a book they refer to as the \\"Book of Secrets\\".  When Liath's father is killed, Hugh, the local Frater, takes her fathers books and takes Liath as his slave to pay off her father's debts.  Liath is forced to endure Hugh's unwanted attentions and try to keep the Book of Secrets hidden from him, which he desires as much as he desires her.  While Liath is suffering under Hugh's hand, in another part of the country, Alain, a young man in a foster family and promised to the church is trying to figure out who he is and what his future will be.  He has been visited by the Lady of Battles, and he promises to serve her if his village is spared from the horde of Eika that is attacking the nearby monastery that Alain is sworn to.  The Eika are human-like creatures that have come to wage war on those they refer to as \\"soft skins\\".<br />Liath and Alain are the main focus of this tale, but Prince Sanglant bears a mention.  Sanglant is the bastard son of King Henry, born of an Aoi woman.  The Aoi are referred to as the Lost Ones as they no longer occupy the world of man.  I believe they are supposed to be Elvish in nature.  Sanglant is the Captain of the King's elite fighting force, the Dragons, and it is he that the book is named after.  While the King is using his Dragons to try to protect Wendar from the Eika, his older half-sister Sabella is waging civil war trying to gain the throne that she believes was taken from her wrongfully.<br />Elliot is off to a good start with this book.  The second one is even better.  This book establishes her world and the basis of the series. Some portions of the book are a little slow, and sections of stories about the various Saints and prayers are written out which seem to have little relevance to the story and I just skipped over them.  She's made a good start creating the characters, but the second book gives them a little more depth than the first. My advice to potential readers is that if you read the first book and like it, to continue with the second, as it just gets better.	2002-01-31
US	51250638	R1M153YD3ETII9	0553579525	121142412	The Moor (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	1	10	17	N	N	Couldn't Even Finish It	I've read Laurie R. King's work before, but this is the first &quot;Mary Russell&quot; novel that I've read, or tried to read, and it will be the last. It's premise of Sherlock Holmes marrying this boring shrew of a woman was unbelievable to me. Also, he seemed to have become dumber in his old age, asking questions that would have been &quot;elementary&quot; to the old Holmes. The plot, a phantom coach and a ghostly hound on the moor, is poorly developed and while supposedly a sequel to &quot;The Hound of Baskervilles&quot; isn't nearly as interesting as it could be.  The book was incredibly slow to start, and I was so bored I couldn't read it for more than five minutes when I can usually sit and read for hours. There's hardly any mystery, no adventure, no sense of thrill, no brilliant deductions by Russell or Holmes, nothing which would mark a Sherlock Holmes mystery.  Apologies to Ms. King, but she is no Doyle, and should stick to her non-Mary Russell novels.	2002-01-31
US	51250638	R2ZQ1BES5TTEFB	0553564935	543210681	Magician: Master (Riftwar Saga, Book 2)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another Well-written Epic Fantasy	&quot;Magician: Master&quot; is the second part of a book that was originally published as one novel and later, in this Author's Preferred Edition divided into two books, the first of which is &quot;Magician: Apprentice&quot;.  This is another case of saving the country, kingdom, world from the strange invaders from another land, planet, or in this case, dimension. Feist writes well, and his work is fast paced and definitely not boring.  Pug, having been captured by the Tsurani in &quot;Magician: Apprentice&quot;, was used as a slave for years, until discovered to have the potential to because a &quot;Great One&quot;, a master magician.  He is destined to be one of the most powerful magician on his world and the Tsurani's. Tomas, Pug's old friend, has become a legendary warrior, carving a path through the ranks of the Tsurani while he slowly loses himself to the Valheru that once donned the magical armor he wears.  He's become more and more dangerous, and the Elves are afraid that he's going to become more and more like their old masters and are unsure if they should allow him to keep the armor.  He's visibly changed under the influence of the armor's magic.  He's also fallen in love with the Queen of the Elves.  Feist has created a memorable tale and he brings the characters to life.  &quot;Magician&quot; is an excellent start to what is sure to be an exciting epic.	2002-01-31
US	51250638	R2CHDHEGYGATGM	0812510992	323127830	The Girl Who Heard Dragons	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Collection of Stories	I had never read a book by Anne McCaffrey.  I remember a friend letting me borrow \\"Dragonriders of Pern\\" as a teenager because they thought I would like it, but I wasn't a big fantasy reader then like I am now so I never made it through the first chapter or so. I picked this book up thinking it was a Pern book and not knowing that it's actually a collection of short stories. I'm glad that I picked this book because it gave me several shorter examples of her work.<br />The first longest story is \\"The Girl Who Heard Dragons\\" and is a Pern story.  It made me want to learn more about Pern and I plan on reading more of McCaffrey's work.  Aramina is a girl with her family, and they are on the run so that people won't find out about and take advantage of Aramina's ability to talk to dragons.  \\"Velvet Fields\\" is about people that have found a planet to colonize with no people, only vacant cities, and it isn't until too late that they realize that the fields of plants on the planet are the missing people. \\"A Sleeping Humpty Dumpty Beauty\\" is about doctors of the future that fix soldiers after battle.  The medical field has advanced in leaps and bounds and they can heal wounds that would kill someone today. One of the doctors, Bardie Makem, feels inexplicably drawn to one of her patients that hasn't come out of a coma, despite all his injuries being fixed. \\"The Greatest Love\\" is one of the few non-futuristic stories, and is about a female OB-GYN in the 50s and her research into in vitro fertilization.  The process had never been performed on humans, but when a woman comes to her volunteering to carry her brother and his wife's child to term it's the perfect opportunity try it, and the repercussions, among which is charges of incest and adultery.  Those are just a few examples of the stories found in this collection of short stories.  McCaffrey is a talented writer, and if you're only familiar with the Pern series, this collection is a wonderful opportunity to experience her other work, or if you're new to her work, like myself, it's a great introduction to Pern and McCaffrey's writing.	2002-01-31
US	51250638	R2GQRXGQGNUWDU	0812555031	23519524	The Horse Goddess (Celtic World of Morgan Llywelyn)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Excellent Story of the Origins of Epona	&quot;The Horse Goddess&quot; starts with young Epona coming to age in her tribe in ancient Ireland. Epona is, in Celtic mythology, the horse goddess.  Morgan Llywelyn takes the story of Epona and expands it and tells the story of how a regular young woman could come to be revered as a goddess.  The story isn't written in the traditional sweeping fantasy manner. Rather, &quot;The Horse Goddess&quot; reads like listening to a story.  I can just imagine sitting around a fire listening to the village wise woman telling this story and the children sitting at her feet, listening with wide eyes.  Epona has begun to exhibit magical abilities and the village's Druid priest, Kernunnos, desires to teach her.  But something in Epona makes her rebel against Kernunnos and his unnatural ability for shape-changing. Kernunnos is obsessed with Epona and her powers, and when she flees her tribe rather than submit to becoming a Druid, he follows her all the way to the Scythians, which is where she finally ends.  She exhibits an unusual ability of being able to communicate with animals, notable horses.  The Scythians are a very horse-centered tribe, and Epona creates a place for herself in a society where women are little more than property.<br />Llywelyn's story of Epona is a must read for people that are interested in Celtic mythology and ancient Ireland.  Llywelyn is an amazing talent, and being interested in the ancient Celts and Ireland, I plan on reading many more of her books.  She brings ancient Ireland to life, and adds depth and detail to Celtic myths.	2002-01-31
US	51250638	R66FXPJ663LYE	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fascinating	The world that David Farland has created is one unlike any that I personally have read about before.  To become a runelord one takes an endowment from another person, called a Dedicate, such as stamina, sight, smell, grace, or brawn.  That person will no longer be able to use the ability that they give up, thus someone that gives an endowment of sight goes blind, and someone that gives brawn becomes so weak as to not be able to move.  The process is done with runes made of bloodmetal, which is very rare and expensive. Dedicates will not get their endowment returns to them unless the lord dies, and if the Dedicate dies the lord looses the endowment.  Now the Earth is in pain, and the people of the world are waiting for the uprising of the Earth King, one of which has always appeared in a time of extreme need.<br />The main character is Gaborn Orden, son of the King of Mystarria.  The realms of Rofehavan are under attack by the King of Indhopal, Raj Ahten, who has taken endowments from thousands upon thousands of people in an effort to become the Sum of All Men. He has taken so many endowments of glamour that he is the most handsome man alive, and so many endowments of Voice that when he speaks, people are compelled to do anything he asks. When King Orden is killed, Gaborn must undertake the effort to send Raj Ahten back to Indhopal and keep the realms of Rofehavan safe. Also, another threat is coming into play that does not yet seem as important as Raj Ahten.  The reavers, a large insect-like race that lives underground, are starting to surface. Each one is over 20 feet tall, and are difficult to kill.  <br />This has the potential to become a great series.  The first book is interesting, and Farland does not shirk from taking into account the morals of recieving endowments from other people.  However, the characters are a tad underdeveloped and two dimensional. This is definitely a series I plan on continuing to read.	2001-12-13
US	51250638	R3ACRKWCPHFTSM	0451159829	992446941	The Sword and the Chain (Guardians of the Flame)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Quest Continues	The second book in the Guardians of the Flame series returns the reader to the world of Dungeons &amp; Dragons.  Karl, Andrea, Ahira, Walter, and Lou are stuck in a strange world in the bodies of the characters they created and played.  These friends are bound to this world through a pledge to bring freedom to the world.  They made their pledges to save the life of a friend.  Now Karl and his friends must wage a war on slavery, fighting against Wizards and the Slaver's Guild.  With the aid of the young dragon Ellegon, from the first novel, Karl and his friends start trying to fulfill their promise.  The two books in this series that I have read so far have read mostly like you would expect a Dungeons &amp; Dragons adventure to be.  The characters have to adapt to the strange world of magic, with only their wits and the instincts of their bodies.  There is, of course, the obligatory quest, and plenty of magic and spells.  This book is interesting, easy reading.  Do not expect many plot intricacies, but do expect to enjoy the developing story of the Guardians of the Flame.	2001-11-09
US	51250638	RYENEB8F9AZTO	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Sci-Fi That Reads Like Fantasy	I'll be the first person to admit that I'm not the biggest fan of science fiction, but Dune is a classic.  After watching the original Dune movie, I felt that reading the book might be able to fill in some parts that I thought would be clearer and better explained in the book, and it did.  Dune may be science fiction, but I felt that it was easier to read than other sci-fi books I've read. It didn't have the long sections of confusing (to me anyway) explanations of scientific principles and electronic equipment.  Also, with the abilities of the Bene Gesserit, the book takes on some of the feel of a fantasy novel.  Dune is based on a desert planet called Arrakis, where a substance simply referred to as spice is mined.  The book starts with Paul Atreides growing into his role as the Muad'dib.  After his family is betrayed by a friend of the family, through the plots of the House Harkonnen.  Although the political intrigue was, at time, beyond me, the adventure of the story pulled me in.  The first in an ongoing series, Dune is a classic in the science-fictions genre.	2001-11-09
US	51250638	R2JCD5K686SOCJ	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Continuing Story of the Witches	Wyrd Sisters continues the story of Granny Weatherwax, who we first met in the Discworld novel Equal Rites.  In this book, Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg have joined with another witch, Magrat, new to the Discworld novels, to form a coven.  Magrat has some odd ideas of what witchcraft involves, such as rituals, candles, and herbs, but the other two humor her. We also get a visit from our old friend Death.  We also get introduced to some new characters. The old ruler of the kingdom, Verence, was murdered and is stuck being a ghost, bound to the stones of the castle.  Hwel is a playwright given the job of writing a play to make the current evil ruler and his wife look better in the eyes of the people.  The witches get involved in the royal intrigue, despite wanting to not get involved in matters outside of the coven.  The land is unhappy with the new ruler, and the witches know it.  Wyrd Sisters abounds with references to Shakespeare, namely MacBeth.  Filled with witty dialogue and amusing parodies, the Discworld novels keep getting better and better.	2001-11-08
US	51250638	R1AHC5H9WTFP2K	0671878751	603848066	Waking in Dreamland	Books	3	0	2	N	N	An Odd Story Set in an Odd Land	In the Dreamland, everything is based on the whim of the Seven Sleepers.  Everything is constantly changing: the land, the weather, the way people look, even their sexes.  To the inhabitants of Dreamland, all of this is normal. What *isn't* normal is Roan.  Roan doesn't change.  He has looked the same all his life.  Now, some of the scientists from Dreamland have decided to try and wake the Sleepers.  The general belief throughout Dreamland is that without the dreams of the Sleepers, Dreamland would cease to exist.  These scientists want to test that theory, even at the cost of their existence.  It's now up to Roan and his friends to stop them.  The setting of this novel is refreshing in its uniqueness.  However, it seems that in an attempt to make the novel longer, Roan and his friends are faced with obstacle after obstacle, each more ridiculous than the last.  Almost invariable, Roan somehow manages to save the day.  Granted, the whole premise for this novel is farfetched, but it started getting out of hand.  The ending, on the other hand, is interesting and was totally unexpected. Read this book because it's different, but don't expect anything too involved or in-depth.	2001-11-08
US	51250638	R386M8XMN2BU3P	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Finally Made It Through	It took me a long time to get around to reading this.  In fact, I had to force myself to read it.  After reading the first four books, each as long as this one, I was quite burned out on it.  However, once I did pick it up and start reading it, it all came back to me and I mostly enjoyed it.  I think this book has good and bad points.<br />For one thing, everyone argues.  A lot. You would think that all the trials and hardship they've gone through with and for each other, that it would bring them closer together. That's not the case.  Instead, the characters are constantly at each other's throats.  The women all think that Rand can't do anything right and get mad at him all the time, sometimes for no reason that I can discern.  I found myself wondering if Robert Jordan perceives all women to be that way, since that is the way all the women in his books are. Rand has no idea what he's doing wrong in the women's eyes, and continues to act like a spoiled prince, while Elayne really is a spoiled princess. Nynaeve's stubbornness is unreasonable, and so is Aviendha's anger.<br />On the other hand, there is more to the characters than meets the eye. You just don't get to see that much of it, and it doesn't come out much in their reactions to other characters. Also, since the books are so long, and it seems like such a long time since they left home, it's hard to remember that Rand, Matt, and Egwene are only teenagers. I'm not sure what Nynaeve's excuse is, though.<br />We don't see much of Matt in this story, although he plays a more important part later into the story, and nothing of Perrin that I recall. I think Perrin should have had some part in this story, as he is part of the important trio with Rand and Matt.  It's been so long since I read the other books, I'm not really sure I remember what happened to him, and seeing him again would have been nice. This time the story centers on Rand, Egwene, Nynaeve, Elayne, and Aviendha.<br />Rand is trying to bring the tribesfrom the Aiel Waste together, and bring down the False Car'a'carn, Couladin. He also thinks that he's starting to go mad.  Egwene is continuing her training with the Aiel Wise One's and is learning how to dreamwalk in Tel'aran'rhiod. Nynaeve and Elayne talk to Egwene through Tel'aran'rhiod, and are also hunting one of the Black Ajah.  <br />All in all, I don't see that there is much to distinguish this book from the others in the series I have read so far. It's not horrible, and it's not great. It seems more that it is just a step along the way.  I think it could've been a much shorter step. If you plan on continuing with the series, you'll have to read this book.	2001-09-30
US	51250638	R24YC6T8OW2SIJ	0812519671	45577249	The Towers of the Sunset (Recluce series, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	So Much Better Than the First One	I disliked the first book, &quot;Magic of Recluce&quot; so much I wasn't going to read this book.  The only reason I did was because I had already bought it before I read the first one.  This book is so much better than the first one, I was amazed.  <br />The Towers of the Sunset is the &quot;prequel&quot; to Magic of Recluce, but was released after the first one. I've read that the author prefers them to be read in the order that they were released.  Towers of the Sunset fills in the history behind the Island of Recluce. The story revolves around Creslin and Maegara. Creslin was raised in a very matriarchal society, and when it was arranged for him to marry Maegara he ran away rather than being bargained into what he sees as virtual slavery. Creslin has some latent powers to control the weather, and when the Chaos wizards find him, they take him into slavery and clear his memory. When he is found by an Order healer, she helps him by setting him on his way to recovering his memory.  Creslin then escapes from the Chaos wizards and finds a temporary place to stay with a family on their farm. When Maegara finally finds Creslin, they are forced into the very marriage Creslin was trying to escape from in order to rule the Island of Recluce.<br />All in all I enjoyed this book, although at some points I think that Modesitt has no idea whatsoever what women think, or that he made Maegara very unstable.  Maegara gets made at Creslin for every reason and for no reason.  While this seems to make perfect sense to her, it doesn't to Creslin, and I personally, am more inclined to agree with Creslin. I had no idea why Maegara was angry with him all the time.  Also, I really dislike the way the books don't seem to come in any logical order.  It seems like you can pick up any book in the series and read and it doesn't matter which one you read before or after it. Some people that are not fond of series' might like this however.	2001-08-06
US	51250638	RIRX574NGW1XO	0671877372	878629078	Touched by Magic	Books	4	46	49	N	N	A Magical Book	Reandn is a respected guard in the king's service with a lovely wife and an adopted son.  When little boys started disappearing around the castle, Reandn was put in charge of the investigation. Then his son disappeared, followed soon after by his wife.  When he finally found out the cause of the disappearances, he was suddenly transported to a far end of the kingdom, by magic.  But magic doesn't exist anymore.  The unicorns left and took the magic with them when Reandn was just a child. As Reandn tries to make his way back home, he comes across a young woman who believes that the unicorns are going to bring magic back into the world, and she needs to help them.  But Reandn knows that magic is harmful and will do whatever he can to stop magic from returning.<br />Doranna Durgin does not waste a lot of time creating a fantasy world. She dives right into the story, bringing the characters alive and developing the plot. She uses the traditional fantasy world, the medieval type world, and adds magic to it, and then takes it away by removing the unicorns. Durgin's books are not long, and are not exceedingly involved or complicated. She keeps her books simple, and they make for an easy, enjoyable read.	2001-08-05
US	51250638	R3LTWVJFW1IX2M	0451197399	878051781	The Ballad of Frankie Silver	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very Interesting Blend of Truth and Fiction	The Ballad of Frankie Silver is two stories, one true and one fiction, woven together through mystery and similarity.  The one story is the story of Sheriff Spencer Arrowood and someone whom he arrested long ago who is due to be executed.  While he is stuck at home recuperating from a bullet wound, he starts thinking about the trial of Frankie Silver and starts researching the case. He believes that there is some similarity between the Frankie Silver case and the case of the man about to be executed.  The second story goes back in time to the true story of Frankie Silver.  It's told mostly from the point of view of a clerk of the court at the time of the Silver trial.  What I found the most interesting was the way that Sharyn McCrumb took a true story, added her own imagination in the role of the court clerk and wove it into a more modern setting. The legalities of both of the cases were interesting and seemed to be well researched.  I thought the book was captivating.	2001-07-16
US	51250638	R287B4JES2SWRW	0451457501	254710783	Swords of Haven: The Adventures of Hawk & Fisher	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Three Great Books in One	The Swords of Haven is a collection of first three books of the Hawk &amp; Fisher series: Hawk &amp; Fisher, Winner Take All, and The God Killer. The first story, Hawk &amp; Fisher, is an intriguing murder mystery.  Hawk and Fisher, set to guard an important person during a party, have to find out who is killing off the guests one by one.  In the second book, Hawk and Fisher are guarding the life of a political candidate, which isn't as easy as you'd first think.  In the third story, Hawk and Fisher are assigned to the God Squad, the small group that keeps order on Haven's Street of the Gods.  Someone is killing the gods and the other gods, understandably, are frightened.  If someone doesn't do something, the gods might take matters into their own hands, and Haven might not survive a war amongst the gods.  <br />Hawk and Fisher are a husband and wife fighting team.  They are notorious in Haven, and people on the wrong side of the law wisely steer clear of them.  They have a penchant for violence, and the fight scenes are many in this book.  But don't let the tough guy exterior fool you.  Hawk and Fisher are also intelligent, witty in a dark, tongue in cheek way, and are handy at solving mysteries.  I read Simon R. Green's book Blue Moon Rising before I read Sword of Haven, and while it is not necessary to do so, I'm glad I did.  Swords of Haven is based in the same world, and there is some talk in book of when the Blue Moon rose. I would also recommend reading Swords of Haven and Guards of Haven before reading Beyond the Blue Moon.	2001-07-16
US	51250638	R29UXBJ5YFBZCQ	0671878727	734984198	Barrenlands	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Good, Quick Read	While Ehren was away on a foolish errand for the First Level Ministry, Benlan, his king and best friend, was assassinated, along with most of the king's guard. Now, a member of the First Level, Varien, has ordered to stop his ongoing search for the king's murderers. Many years ago, King Benlan's brother, Dannel, set off across the Barrenlands, a near impossible feat for a man alone, to be with the woman he loved.  Now, the First Level Ministry wants Ehren to find Dannel and his family and &quot;neutralize&quot; them. They want no one trying to make a claim for the throne. By now, Ehren is almost certain in his suspicions that there is a traitor among the First Level wizards.  Ehren sets out to find Dannel and his family. When Ehren finds Dannel's children, Laine and Shette, in a merchant caravan, he doesn't tell them what his mission is.  He just travels with them for a while. He grows quite attached to them on the trip. He's gathered a lot of information on his trip, and has grown even surer of Varien's involvement with Benlan's death. Now Ehren is determined to protect Dannel's family and get his revenge against Varien.<br />Barrenlands is a good story with likable characters.  You can feel Ehren's pain at his friend's death and determination to do what is right.  Durgin keeps the story to the point, rather than branching out into plots and subplots. The story is fast-paced and exciting. Very enjoyable.	2001-07-07
US	51250638	RJ95PY1MXXWCD	0553578243	380182719	A Darker Place	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not Exactly a &quot;Nail-Biter&quot; but Very Interesting	Anne Waverly is a university professor specializing in cults and cult mentalities.  When FBI agent Glen McCarthy approaches her for her help in infiltrating a potentially dangerous cult, she says no. This is work she's done for him before, and she doesn't know that she can adopt her other personality as a gullible, innocent, middle-aged woman in search of a place to belong as convincingly as she has in the past. She finally agrees, as Glen knew she would, and starts off to find her way into this cult, Change, in Sedona, Arizona. Change uses the belief that heat and pressure creates change into something better, and centers on alchemy, the practice of turning lead into gold. Her interest in cults and cult mentalities stems from when she, her husband, and her child were in a cult. One day when she went off on her own for some thinking, her husband, her little girl, and the other members of the cult drank poisoned drinks and died.  When she encounters a child at Change that could be her little girls twin, she becomes fiercely protective and involved with the little girl and her older brother.<br />As a thriller or suspense, this novel was pretty disappointing.  I didn't feel like I was on the edge of my seat, or that it was a &quot;page-turner&quot;.  I wasn't at all inclined toward biting my nails and I wasn't &quot;horrified&quot;. It wasn't much of a mystery, either. It was an interesting story of a woman trying to find out if this cult was dangerous, but that was all.  Read this book because it is an interesting account of a cult, seemingly well-researched, but don't expect much more than that.	2001-06-23
US	51250638	R167BWHPUAIYCQ	0449222713	287579649	Black Opal	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Wholly Unremarkable	Carmel March was found under a bush outside of Dr. and Mrs. Marline's home.  She and everyone else knew she didn't belong, but she was raised along with the Marline's children. When Mrs. Marline dies under mysterious circumstances, her &quot;uncle&quot; comes and takes her away from the rest of the family, knowing that there was trouble on the horizon. Carmel's uncle is a captain of a boat, and he takes her with him on his journeys, finally leaving her in Australia with his wife. Later, as a young woman, she returns to England and discovers that the place she left is vastly different than the place she returns to.  The once beautiful home is now empty and she discovers that Dr. Marline was hanged as a murderer.  She's positive that the good doctor was not the murderer and has set herself to finding out what really happened.  The story was slow in parts, and predictable in others.  Also, the way that Victoria Holt tried to tie in black opals to all the important happenings is rather lame. It's not a bad novel, but not as interesting as some I've read.	2001-06-23
US	51250638	R1TN143YF0RMPB	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great Start to a New Series	Livak is a gambler and a thief.  She's certainly not the kind of person you would think would be a hero.  Nevertheless, she's the main character of this book.  When Livak needs some extra money and hears there were wizards buying certain antiquities, she goes and steals a rather unremarkable looking tankard from an old acquaintance. The wizards know the tankard is stolen, since they already tried to buy it from the owner, but rather than turn her in, they hire her to &quot;acquire&quot; some other pieces they want to get their hands on, but the owner is unwilling to part with.  Someone else is trying to acquire these type of items too, and they're going about it in a much more vicious way.  The more Livak learns, the less she likes the situation.  Apparently the other people are from another nation that has a mysterious type of magic where the user isn't required to have the traditional &quot;powers&quot; associated with magery.<br />Livak is a fiercely independent woman and is hard-pressed to give up her freedom to this group of mages.  She stays true to herself in this book.  She's no warrior, and she's no shy princess.  She doesn't go rushing off, sword in hand, but sneaks around in darkness, poison darts up her sleeve, to find out what she needs to know.<br />The book is mostly told from Livak's perspective, although it switches to a third person perspective that gives us a clearer view of what's going on, since Livak couldn't possibly be aware of everything happening.  The characters are believable.  This is the kind of book where I cry if someone I liked dies, and I cheer if the villains are beaten.  This book was thoroughly enjoyable and I look forward to the sequel.	2001-06-23
US	51250638	R2Q85F8OMV6MGJ	0515130389	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Little More Weird Than Her Usual...	Tory Bodeen has returned to the small town in South Carolina where she grew up.  Tory was the daughter of an abusive father and a mother that stood by her husband.  Her best friend, Hope Lavelle, was the daughter of a well-to-do family.  After Hope was murdered, Tory eventually left her family and set out on her own. Tory has also been gifted with psychic powers; &quot;the sight&quot;, her grandmother called it. Now Tory is a grown woman and she's come back to her old home, moved into the house where she grew up on the Lavelle's property, and is opening her own business. Now she must learn to face the animosity of some, and the gossip of others, make her place in the town she once called home, and face the circumstances of Hope's death. She must discover who the murderer is, or she may be next.	2001-06-23
US	51250638	R3MD5XGKNKAX0S	0441007759	943834654	The Changeling Saga 2: The Sorcerer's Gun	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Second in the Series	The Sorcerer's Gun takes us back to the worlds established in The Changeling War. The war between earth and the Castle wages on, with the Pale Man seeking domination on both worlds. Joe Beast and his uncle, Roman Petranova wage their own war against the Pale Man to get back Roman's son, Ernie. Ernie's spirit has been released from his body and now resides in the dead, animated body of a soldier of the Gray. Mrs. Mendeck transport Brian and Joe to the Castle for Brian to further his magical education and for Joe to find his cousin. Eric Jacobson and Summitch continue in the company of a magical being, Gontor, and fight with the Army of the Green against the might of the Gray. We are also introduced to a new, mysterious character referred to as The Growler. This book focuses more on the Castle than it does on the earth, but the earth still plays a large part of the story. The characters are explored and developed a little more as well.	2001-06-06
US	51250638	R2J5KG6DS5VAHJ	0345335457	562872590	Magician's Gambit (The Belgariad, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Third in the Series	Magician's Gambit takes over where Queen of Sorcery left off.  Ce'Nedra, the Imprerial Princess, is finding herself feeling tender toward Garion, and Garion seems totally oblivious most of the time. Now she has to be left behind while Garion, Belgarath, and the others continue on their search for the orb and she's worried about him. Garion has to continue struggling with the powers that he has and doesn't want, for if he does not learn to use them, they may eventually destroy him. David Eddings' characters are delightful and well thought out. The storyline is adventurous and fun, even if it is a tad predictable, though its predictableness does not lessen the reader's enjoyment of the story.	2001-06-06
US	51250638	R3C6H55MQQBZQH	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Captivating Memoir	Frank McCourt tells the poignant, touching story of his childhood in Ireland.  He was from a poor family and his father was a drunkard.  While he did not have an easy childhood, he never let go of the dream to make something better of himself and provide a better life for his mother.  McCourt's way of writing is exactly like he's telling a story and I had to get used to reading like I was listening to a storyteller.  It takes some getting used to, but once you do, you can practically hear his accent.	2001-06-06
US	51250638	R32GQBUDOACO9P	0671045555	223960215	Tis Unabridged: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Sequel	I listened to the unabridged audio version of this book and it was a real treat listening to the story as told by the author.  'Tis picks up where Angela's Ashes left off; with Frank McCourt starting his new life in America.  It's not easy for him, and times are hard, but I got the impression he enjoyed his new life and the trials that he went through helped to make him a better person.  He tells the story with a sense of humor, laughing at himself and the idiosyncratic people around him.  His story ranges from his beginning in America, to his time in the army, to college and to teaching.  An interesting and very entertaining read... or listen.	2001-06-06
US	51250638	R3BXKFGNZM2BH1	0345335651	873766982	Queen of Sorcery (The Belgariad, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Continuing Story of Garion	The second book of the Belgariad continues the story of Garion as he continues to struggle internally with his new powers that he doesn't want or think he needs. He continues on his journey with Polgara and Belgarath on their quest for the Orb of Aldur, which was stolen by a priest of the evil God Torak. Garion must learn to control his power or it may end up destroying him and others. I'm definitely enjoying this series. The characters in the book are interesting, and the plot believable. The book could easily be read by young adults as well as adults.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	RD73RXTJQNX75	0805044469	901683012	Traplines: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dark Imagery Accompanies This Collection of Stories	Don't read this book for humor. You won't find any. Instead, these four short stories deal with psychopaths, bullies, delinquents, and other miscreants. Eden Robinson's style is very frank and in your face. She doesn't pull her punches, but tells it exactly like it is. The first story, &quot;Traplines&quot;, is about a teenager torn between leaving home or staying with his abusive parents. &quot;Dogs in Winter&quot; is told from the point of view of a teenaged girl whose mother is a convicted serial killer. She's so afraid of her mother finding her and killing her that she has repeatedly attempted suicide. &quot;Contact Sports&quot; is, in my opinion, the most interesting story. It's about a teenaged boy that lives with his mother, and whose deranged cousin has moved in with them, assumed the role of a father figure, and constantly harasses him. The last story, &quot;Queen of the North&quot;, is about a sexually abused teenaged girl as she tries to handle a relationship with her boyfriend. This book is definitely not one to read when trying to relax. Rather, it gives you a harsh look at what can be reality for so many people.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	R39WBLEBOXL41T	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Conclusion to the Series	Nora Roberts loves Ireland, and her love of the country is clearly stated throughout this book. She portrays the people as warm and friendly and the land as green and beautiful. Darcy Gallagher and her brothers own Gallagher's pub. The Gallaghers recently started an undertaking that involves building a theatre onto the pub. The man responsible for the theatre is Trevor Magee. Trevor and Darcy are immediately attracted to one another, and that passion blooms into romance. Prince Carrick of the faeries knows that Trevor and Darcy are the last key to breaking the curse that keeps him from his own true love, Lady Gwen. All that remains is for Trevor and Darcy to realize the extent of their passion for each other. Neither one of them is ready to commit. Roberts tells a beautiful story. Her characters are real and her descriptions are vivid. This is one of her best trilogies.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	R39QU4DGTP45PO	0671742515	238243512	The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Dirk Gently Returns	I did not enjoy this one as much as &quot;Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency&quot;. I do have to say that Douglas Adams is an incredible writer and I have enjoyed all of his books. His has a wonderful sense of humor and is very intelligent, and it shows through in his Dirk Gently series. Like the first book, the story starts out with several story lines developing and slowly coming together for a climactic ending. It's up to Dirk Gently to solve the mystery of his late clients death and the mysterious explosion in London's Heathrow Airport that was deemed an &quot;act of God&quot;. I was left feeling rather dissatisfied by the ending. I didn't understand why some things happened that did, and was left feeling confused and unfulfilled. However, I do not think that this is because of the book itself, but rather that perhaps I didn't devote the attention to this book that it deserves and requires. It has a very intricate plot and was very thought provoking. I will be re-reading this book to better my understanding of it, and I would love to see more of Dirk Gently in the future.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	RK98KGLIXMF8Q	0061020672	469869447	Sourcery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another Wonderful Discworld Novel	Terry Pratchett's Discworld Series is definitely one of my favorites. In Sourcery, the entire Disc is threatened by the sudden rise of wizards. The wizards are lead by one of the most feared people on the Disc, a sourcerer. What exactly is a sourcerer? The source of all magic, of course. The eighth son of an eighth son is, of course, a wizard. There was once a wizard that went out and had seven sons. His eighth son was a wizard squared -- a sourcerer. The sourcerer is the most powerful wizard ever, and with his coming, the powers of all the wizards has grown tremendously. With an evil staff urging him forward, the sourcerer and the wizards want to rule the Disc. They are apparently unstoppable. The hope of the Disc rests on the inept shoulder of Rincewind. Terry Pratchett is hilarious, and his stories are always witty and intriguing, and intelligent as well.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	RZAQUZSOSYA7K	0517023377	312152799	Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I Listened to the Audio Book	The Audio version of this book was definitely a treat for me. Listening to the story read by the author, hearing it the way Douglas Adams intended it to sound was great. I really enjoyed listening to his wonderful accent as he told this story. The story has all of Adams' amazing British humor, but also is liberally dosed with astounding intelligence. It is mostly a mystery story, with a bit of sci-fi thrown in for good measure. Dirk Gently is a detective that believes in the total interconnectedness of all things. It starts out with several seemingly unrelated story lines. These story lines are all intricately interwoven and the book ends with a satisfying... well... interconnectedness. Those of you that did not like the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series because it was &quot;too silly&quot; should give this book a try. It's anything but silly. Adams' logic can be astounding. Also, the bit with the couch being stuck in the stairway is intriguing. Adams challenges the reader to figure out how this couch is mysteriously stuck, defying all rules of physics.	2001-04-30
US	51250638	R3FOIKIM6TB9DH	0451450957	529934329	Blue Moon Rising (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One More Added to My List of Favorites	I've never read anything of Simon R. Green's but I plan to after reading this one. The characters are lovable and funny; the plot was intriguing. Rupert was the second son of the king in a kingdom that didn't need or want a second prince. The kind sends Rupert off on a quest to slay a dragon. Rupert takes his friend, the Unicorn, and goes off to find a dragon, and a princess, but what do you do when the dragon needs to be saved from the princess? He knows he's supposed to slay a dragon, but the dragon proves to be a better friend than anyone else Rupert knows so he heads back to his kingdom with princess and dragon in tow. Rupert discovers that the Blue Moon is rising, and with it the Wild Magic is gaining power. The nearby Darkwood is spreading quickly and the kingdom must find some way to stop it before it's evil covers the kingdom and all is lost. The story is by turns humorous, touching, and serious. The Princess Julia is my new hero. She's bold, sarcastic, doesn't take anything from anyone, and knows her way around with a sword. No helpless maiden in distress here... Julia plays a major part in the ongoing battle against the wild magic. This book is an instant classic in my mind.	2001-04-29
US	51250638	R2SZN1AB7P028S	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Best Yet	I've started reading the Discworld series from the beginning since they've started reissuing the ones that were out of print.  &quot;Mort&quot; is by far the best I've read so far.  If they keep getting better as the series progresses, I'm going to have to restrict myself to reading these books at home because of the weird looks I get if I laugh at a book in public. Death is the most hilarious character in the book. Death has decided that he needs an apprentice so that he can look around a bit, do a bit of sightseeing on the Disc. Mort is the only boy in his town that wasn't offered an apprenticeship... until Death came.  He gave Mort the offer of a lifetime.  Free room and board, a great job, use of the company horse.  What more could Mort ask for? But Death starts spending more and more time away and Mort isn't quite ready to start taking over the job full time. This book explores what happens when someone doesn't die that the entire universe expects to die. Like I said, it's one of the *best* of the series so far, and I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.	2001-04-27
US	51250638	R1U72TWFGKBBTI	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Started Out Okay, but Fell Apart at the End	I loved &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot;. I thought it was intriguing. I couldn't wait to read &quot;Hannibal&quot;. I found that &quot;Hannibal&quot; didn't rise to the standards set by &quot;Silence&quot;. The book started out well, with Dr. Lecter living in Italy as the curator of the Palazzo Capponi. Lecter is going by the name &quot;Dr. Fell&quot; and is certainly living it up. His rich sensibilities are perfectly in place in Italy. Seven years have passed since he escaped. When Clarice Starling ran into some trouble that got her name in the papers, Lecter sends her a letter. This starts her on a search for him again. <br />A past victim of Lecter's, the only surviving one, by the name of Mason Verger, is also hunting for Dr. Lecter for his own sordid ends. Verger, a millionaire and a child-molester, is certainly the evil one in the book. What I didn't understand was his unhealthy fascination for having wild pigs eat off Lecter's feet. It was one of those things that made me scratch my head in wonder and say &quot;Okaaaay... sure.&quot;<br />The main problem for me was the ending. Since I don't want to spoil the ending for anyone that hasn't read the book, I won't really go into details. I just thought that the ending was  totally unbelievable. For an author that writes so well, I found this slide into implausibility ridiculous. I can honestly say I preferred the ending in the movie better. I certainly did *not* think the book was terrifying, since I was too busy wondering where an otherwise wonderful story went bad.	2001-04-01
US	51250638	R9NTN9O25O1DX	0451148339	536609901	The Sleeping Dragon (Guardians of the Flame)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Dungeons and Dragons Brought to Life	It started out as just another night playing Dungeons and Dragons. James, Karl, Andrea, and the others had each picked the character he or she wanted to play, and they embarked on a new campaign. As the gamemaster started them on their new journey, they suddenly find themselves transported to the place the gamemaster was describing to them. They also find themselves in the bodies of their characters, with all of their characters abilities and flaws. In order to find the way back, they must make their way through this strange world on a quest to find the legendary Gate Between the Worlds. Armed with their wits and the few provisions that the gamemaster left them, they start on an dangerous adventure.<br />Rosenberg does an excellent job of showing the good and the bad to the characters. They aren't perfect, and you know it. The story is interesting, and the world is just how you would expect it to be. There's an excellent mix of romance, conflict, humor, and friendship. Rosenberg leaves the reader in a position where you almost have to read the next book to find out the fates of the characters, but you can still be satisfied with the ending as it is, with the promise of a bright new future.	2001-03-21
US	51250638	RZINLSRRUX4EO	0886779162	133758980	Owlknight (Valdemar: Darian's Tale, Book 3)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Certainly Not Her Best, but Still a Good Book	I've been a big fan of Mercedes Lackey since I was 15 years old. I have yet to read a book of hers that I haven't liked. I hardly expect her to write a wonderful, emotional book every time. That being said, I do think this book is one of her weaker novels. This is certainly not one of my favorite trilogies of hers. The book does develop the idea of having a Tayledras Vale in Valdemar and how everyone in the Vale lives and reacts to one another.<br />&quot;Owlknight&quot; is the last of the trilogy.  Darian was an orphen found by the Tayledras Hawkbrothers six years ago. He is now a Master Mage as well as the head of the Vale of k'Valdemar. He's in a relationship with Keisha, one of the Vales healers. Now that Darian has made a successful life for himself, he struggles with the pain of not knowing what happened to his parents and uses his skills as a Master Mage to finally get some answers. While Darian worries over the fate of his parents, Keisha is trying to reconcile her desire for a future with Darian and her desire to continue to be an intelligent, independant woman.<br />I do not think that Darian and Keisha are up to the standards set by some of Lackey's previous characters in the Heralds of Valdemar series. Darian seems (pardon the pun) a little feather brained, and Keisha seems to act too immature to handle a serious relationship, since she can't even figure out that marriage doesn't necessarily mean giving up her independence and her career. Also, while Darian's bond bird Kuari played a rather large part in the previous books, I thought he wasn't mentioned nearly often enough in &quot;Owlknight&quot;.<br />Lackey has developed a wonderful land, and the Tayledras are fascinating people. While this book may not have been the emotional, thrill-packed novel that some of her other novels have been, it is still a well-written book. If you are a Lackey fan, don't pass up the book. The Vale of k'Valdemar will most likely become an integral part of the series.	2001-03-20
US	51250638	R2XGEO1SX6EWV4	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epic Fantasy at Its Best!	George R.R. Martin is a wonderful author. I would have to say that his work ranks right up there on my list with Robert Jordan and Terry Goodkind.  I will say up front that if you are easily offended then do not read this book.  As with any good book, there are evil characters.  Martin goes in depth into all of his characters personalities, including their flaws.  Murder, incest, and treason play no small part in this series. <br />The plot is intricately entwined.  There are six different factions fighting over the control of the Seven Kingdoms.  It's a free-for-all, with brother fighting against brother, princesses in disguise, knights plotting treason against their lords, and every man declaring himself king over this or that bit of land. I have to admit that Tyrion Lannister, AKA The Imp, is one of my favorite characters in the book.  He's small and malformed, but he's got a caustic wit and genuinely cares for the people that are close to his heart.  My only problem with this book was that it was so long.  Which I do not mean in a bad sense, but in the sense that I wanted to know what happens to everyone at the end of the book that was still hundreds of pages away! You really need to have the time to sit down and get into this book or you will not enjoy it too the fullest.	2001-03-14
US	51250638	R1M4UKGPAX3C3B	0886779138	361336638	The Wizard's Treasure (Dragon Nimbus #4 )	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The First Three Were Better	That's not to say that this one was horrible.  I just did not find it quite as interesting as the others.  This book mostly revolves around Marcus and Robb.  Senior Magician Jaylor had sent the two young journeyman on a mission to bring the dragons of Coronnan back to the kingdom.  On their journey, the two magicians are trapped by a spell set to protect a jealous ghost's treasure.  Back in the kingdom, Jack is sworn to free the Queen from the cat personality that has been sharing her body and to take his love, Katrina, back to her home land of SeLenicca.  While I did not find this book to be as interesting as the other three, it continues the story of the dragons of Coronnan.  I'm sure it's a necessary part in the ongoing series, and the ending was rather satisfying.	2001-03-13
US	51250638	R2OWQ0XEGT3LJA	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Beginning to a Series	The fate of the world rests on the shoulders of Garion, but he's just a boy and doesn't believe in magic or fate.  His Aunt Pol raised him on a quiet farm, and the fact that a dark man with no shadow has constantly haunted him hasn't really bothered him all that much.  Usually he doesn't even know or remember that the man is there.  This book starts Garion on his journey to adulthood and gives him a glimpse of the future that may be in store for him; a future full of adventure and sorcery.  David Eddings really has a knack with bringing his characters to life.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	RFAX26INCICQ	0345379063	590264183	Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not Just Another Book About Fighting	When I picked up this book I thought that it would be yet another book of battle after battle, good against evil, with no real plot whatsoever.  I was genuinely surprised when I got caught up in the plot of the book.  David Gemmell has a way of bringing the characters to life and letting you feel the joys and pains of the characters, even if only for a little while.  Druss the Legend is just that, a legend.  He was and is one of the mightiest warriors ever told about in stories.  Druss is an old man now, a hermit living in the mountains waiting to die.  The Nadir barbarians are advancing on the Drenai people, and the only thing between the two is one six-walled fortress destined to fall.  Druss was asked to come down from his mountain and join the Drenai in their hopeless fight.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	R3UYCAJZNPAT66	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Beginning to a Series	The fate of the world rests on the shoulders of Garion, but he's just a boy and doesn't believe in magic or fate.  His Aunt Pol raised him on a quiet farm, and the fact that a dark man with no shadow has constantly haunted him hasn't really bothered him all that much.  Usually he doesn't even know or remember that the man is there.  This book starts Garion on his journey to adulthood and gives him a glimpse of the future that may be in store for him; a future full of adventure and sorcery.  David Eddings really has a knack with bringing his characters to life.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	R1YI1RGF7HW0NI	0553572857	936140893	Shadow Moon (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 1)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Slow Story Development and Over Descriptive	It seems that I'm not the only one that thinks this book was slow in developing and that the descriptions were *way* too long.  I also think that the book depended way too much on the movie for its plot. The story should have been able to stand on its own without having to have watched the movie first.  Since it's been years since I've seen the movie, I was lost for most of the book. It's been thirteen years since the battle of Nockmaar and Thorn has taken it upon himself to find out what happened on the night that cataclysms and disasters had raged across the Twelve Domains, killing many people, including some of Thorn's dearest friends. The fate of the Great Realms lies in the hands of a spoiled brat named Princess Elora, who doesn't seem to care about anything or anyone except herself. Thorn must oppose a great malevolent force, resurrect a powerful force, and bargain with a demon to help Elora save a world rapidly falling to pieces.  Once the story got going it was more interesting, but it took me a while to really get into this book.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	RWH4YV0JXR9TW	0671577913	312681713	In The Rift:  Glenraven book 2	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Fun, Quick Read	I enjoyed this book and breezed through it rather quickly.  If you are looking for something in depth, try somewhere else.  But if you're looking for something fun and light-hearted pick up this book.  The main character, Kate Beacham, is a Wiccan who is being harassed and threatened by close-minded people in her small town.  She was assaulted in the alley behind her work by three masked men, and when she came home she found her horse dead in the drive with a note through his head saying that she would be next.  When she loaded her shotgun and went to bed, she found a Fodor's guide book to a place called Glenraven on her nightstand that she was positive she had not seen before. When she opened the book to take a look at it, words magically appeared in it telling her to get out of the house fast.  Being a practitioner of magick, she obeyed the book and went outside just in time to see a large hole open in the air and group of people on horseback gallop out being pursued by a monster.  After killing the thing with her shotgun, Kate finds these strangers in her yard and in her house without a way home. The book tells her that she has to help them, otherwise both their worlds are in jeopardy.  She has to learn to trust and be trusted by these strangers from another world in order to save them all.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	R2CRNJIJCQUEUQ	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Dark and Foreboding, But Not What I Expected	The Black Company is a tightly knit band of mercenaries that are not in the least bit softhearted.  They do what they have to in a world that's overrun by evil. Now the Company has been hired by one of the Lady's minions, Soulcatcher, to do her bidding.  Their job is to aid her in her fight against the Rebel.  The story is told by Croaker, the Company's doctor and historian.  As with any novel told in first person, the plot is limited to what the storyteller knows.  So if Croaker is left out of something, or doesn't know the reasoning behind something, then neither does the reader.  I wasn't thrilled with the book, but neither did I dislike it.  I found myself not knowing if the Lady was Evil or Good, whether the Rebel was Evil or Good, or if both of them are Evil.  And if both of them are Evil, then who's Good? I was a little confused about parts of the story, and short of re-reading it, I probably will remain so.	2001-03-03
US	51250638	R3FBGASG54HX4F	0446608858	679570720	Vengeance of Dragons (The Secret Texts Book 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Even Better Than the First	The second book of The Secret Text trilogy picks up right where the first one left off.  Kait Galweigh is stranded on an island with her friends with the Mirror of Souls in their possession.  Kait is mistakenly led to believe that the Mirror will restore the lives of her family. In addition to being stranded on an unknown island, Kait and her friends are also in great danger from the Sabir family. Crispin Sabir believes that the Mirror of souls will give him incredible power and immortality and will do anything that he can to get his hands on it.  In actuality, the Mirror contains the souls of the Dragons. The Dragons were evil sorcerers that had ruled the world long ago. Kait and her friends must stop an apocalyptic war that is prophesied to occur when the Dragon's are released from their captivity. Holly Lisle does a wonderful job of giving her characters life and weaving her plots together. This book is captivating.	2000-12-07
US	51250638	R2W2OPT6ATG7KF	0671721690	179937792	Mage Quest (Wizard of Yurt)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Daimbert's In Trouble Again!	When Daimbert took on the job as the royal wizard of Yurt, he thought the job would be a boring one. Every time Daimbert starts to wish something exciting would happen, he gets more than he bargained for.  This time is no exception. The king of Yurt has gotten it into his head that he needs to go on a quest. He's heard rumors of a blue rose being raised in a far away land which is just what he needs to add to his rose garden.  The king's nephew wants to find out why his father died. Joachim the priest wishes to make a pilgrimage to the holy land, and to his home.  A prince of a nearby principality is seeking an ancient artifact said to have belonged to Solomon. On their journey, Daimbert and his friends run into treachery, intrigue, and powerful black magic, not to mention a huge green djinn. The plots in the book are wonderfully interwoven, and the whole book has a light-hearted, humorous feel to it.	2000-12-07
US	51250638	R33PFYB3919GRV	0671877992	394362360	Glenraven	Books	4	8	8	N	N	I Don't Think We're in Italy Anymore...	When JayJay Benning picked up a book in a bookstore, she thought the book was a travel guide to a small principality in Italy called Glenraven.  Glenraven had supposedly been sealed off from the world and was for the first time opening it's borders to a few select individuals. Since she needed some time away from her husband, JayJay thought that Glenraven sounded perfect. After getting her friend Sophie to agree to come with her, they started on their trip. When the book starts rewriting itself before their eyes, seemingly talking to them, they realize that they're not where they thought they were. The people of Glenraven needed was a couple of heros to save them from a thousand year old ruler that feeds on the souls of Glenraveners to keep herself alive. JayJay and Sophie are not quiet what they had in mind. The pain of the Glenraveners can clearly be felt, and Sophie and JayJay's misery with their husbands is palpable. This book was touching, interesting, and well written.	2000-12-07
US	51250638	R171XPIFAUMJWY	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Psychological Thriller	Hannibal Lecter is the guy you love to hate. He's a brilliant, sophisticated person who would probably be quite nice socially except for that whole cannibalism thing. Clarice Starling is a promising young FBI agent in training. She's sent to see Hannibal Lecter in an attempt to get him to answer a questionaire for the Forensics department. Lecter reveals some information to Starling, which leads her discover more information regarding past and current crimes. This book is intruiging. The way Harris gets into the mind of a serial killer is wonderful. I almost felt sorry for the guy, once in s a while. Almost. This book was definitely a page turner.	2000-12-07
US	51250638	R3AC1JY7YIWDHG	067187800X	116896834	Mother of Demons	Books	2	3	11	N	N	More of a Lesson in History than Anything	I bought this book originally because it was listed as &quot;Fantasy&quot; on the binding of the book and looked rather interesting.  Well, I don't know exactly what in particular distinguishes fantasy from science fiction, but in my eyes this book was definitely science fiction.  I'm not a big fan of science fiction myself, but I know a lot of people are.  If you're not a science fiction person, then don't read this book.  That was my first problem with the book, although it doesn't have anything to do with the quality of the book itself.  My other problem with the book was, well, it was boring.  At least in my eyes.  One of the main characters was a Historian on Earth, and the humans are looking to her for guidance as they try to establish a place for themselves on the planet their ship crashed on.  The book turns into more of a World History lesson than anything.  If you are a big history fan, then I'm sure you would enjoy the book, but I don't want a history lesson.  When I read a book it's to escape. The premise to the book was actually quite interesting and I'm sure I would've enjoyed it if the author had actually expounded on it more.  Instead the book turned into battle after battle with no actual plot to it.  The back of the book made it sound quite funny, and there was a laugh or two to be had from one of the characters, but otherwise, this book was rather disappointing.	2000-11-16
US	51250638	R3TQ6CGTVSAHYA	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disjointed and Disappointing	I would first like to say that I have not seen the movie that was based on this book, and I am not judging it in relation to the movie.  Girl, Interrupted is a memoir of a young woman who was committed to a mental institution after just one session with a psychologist.  What I did not understand was why, after only one session, she allowed this stranger to shove her into a taxi and commit herself to an institution. It started off well, involving different people who were in the institution and things they did, but further into the book Kaysen started trying to be a psychologist herself.  I did not want a psychology lesson, I wanted more information about what went on in the institution itself. She was in there for quite a while, and yet there isn't much about her life in the hospital. I can see how the movie would be a lot better since the viewers would be spared a tedious psychology lesson.	2000-10-05
US	51250638	R1J3G798HEU80T	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Neurotically Funny	We've all experienced those little moments of neurosis in our lives: checking to see how many times a certain someone has called; trying so hard to be noticed by someone without looking like we are trying to be noticed; obsessing about weight or smoking and drinking habits, or something similar.  &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; writes a no holds barred, self-deprecating, hilarious diary.  Bridget starts every entry with her weight, and the amount of alcohol drunk and cigarettes smoked, and sometimes, the number of times she's thought about someone, or checked to see if they've called.  Watching as her constant struggle for self-improvement hit various highs and lows is interesting, especially as she wants to lose weight, stop smoking, and stop drinking so very much.  So she has a bit of a drinking problem, but at least she's aware of it, and doesn't get drunk *every* day. The diary is an account of a year of her life, for better or for worse.  Wonderfully funny and self-aware, Bridget talks about her life and the lives of her (also neurotic) friends.  And, I must say, her mother is annoying but hilarious; an over-sterotypical representation of a socialite.	2000-10-04
US	51250638	R1Z8K0WH82KBOS	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Neurotically Funny	We've all experienced those little moments of neurosis in our lives: checking to see how many times a certain someone has called; trying so hard to be noticed by someone without looking like we are trying to be noticed; obsessing about weight or smoking and drinking habits, or something similar.  &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; writes a no holds barred, self-deprecating, hilarious diary.  Bridget starts every entry with her weight, and the amount of alcohol drunk and cigarettes smoked, and sometimes, the number of times she's thought about someone, or checked to see if they've called.  Watching as her constant struggle for self-improvement hit various highs and lows is interesting, especially as she wants to lose weight, stop smoking, and stop drinking so very much.  So she has a bit of a drinking problem, but at least she's aware of it, and doesn't get drunk *every* day. The diary is an account of a year of her life, for better or for worse.  Wonderfully funny and self-aware, Bridget talks about her life and the lives of her (also neurotic) friends.  And, I must say, her mother is annoying but hilarious; an over-sterotypical representation of a socialite.	2000-10-04
US	51250638	R1NQNBHVZFGBL7	0446608173	702775208	A Cavern of Black Ice (Sword of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An Epic Fantasy in a Cold, Harsh Land	J.V. Jones really did her research on this one.  The story is based in a world immersed in snow.  Her vivid descriptions of the effects of extreme cold on the human body were excellently depicted.  The story starts out with several intricately woven story lines developing.  In the Clanholds, two boys return to camp and discover that everyone in their party has been killed with swords that do not draw blood; a horrible war between the clans is threatening to erupt as a result.  In the city of Spire Vanis, a young girl is experiencing increasingly horrible nightmares of cold and ice. On a remote homestead, a warrior is summoned to leave his family by a raven.  As the story unfolds you find that everyone is inexplicably linked together.  I did find it to be a little long, but I did not feel that there were any parts that could have been shortened without affecting the feel of the book.	2000-10-04
US	51250638	R15DI115CIWD9F	0671721569	889205160	The Wood Nymph and the Cranky Saint (The Royal Wizard of Yurt)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For...	...You just might get it! Daimbert soon found this out. When the King of Yurt decided it was time for his family to go on vacation, he left Daimbert and Joachim, the chaplain, in charge, with his nephew on the throne as regent.  As soon as the King left, problems started popping up left and right! One of the dukes is plagued with magical rabbits... with horns; the very cranky saint that resides at the shrine of the Holy Toe has appeared in several different visions, some stated his wishes to be moved from the shrine to a church in a different city, and others saying that he wants to stay at the shrine; the church decided they wanted the nymph that resides in the woods around the shrine of the Holy Toe to be moved elsewhere; a duchess is being courted by an apparently low-born stranger *and* the King's nephew; odd zombie-like creatures have been sighted; and to top it all off, Daimbert's predecessor seems to be growing more and more incompetent.  While all these problems are very serious indeed, Brittain still manages to keep it light-hearted and fun. Also, he does a wonderful job of addressing how magic and religion interact.	2000-09-23
US	51250638	R26GGX7T15E1W7	0451456726	65025730	Heir to the Shadows	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just Keeps Getting Better!	After I read the first book in the series, I picked up this one one as  soon as I could make it to a book store.  The second book picks up the  story of Jaenelle, Saetan, and his sons, Daemon and Lucivar.  Jaenelle is  no longer a sweet, innocent child, but a young woman racked with inner  turmoil.  Her mind and her body are still fragile and amnesia shadows the  traumatic events that occured.  Daemon is trapped in the Twisted Kingdom  and can no longer come to her aid. Lucivar is convinced that she is dead  and that Daemon was the one to kill her.  And the three Realms are  enveloped in ever increasing stife as Hekatah and Dorothae weave their  intricate schemes to rule Kaeleer.<br />Bishop's books are dark, hard,  frightening and grotesque.  But they are also light, beautiful, funny, and  heart-warming.  She brings her characters to life and their problems become  your own. I can't remember the last time I got so caught up in a world.	2000-09-12
US	51250638	R28YJVORJHHW9E	0345418778	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Mostly Disappointing	The fifth book in the Hitchhiker's Trilogy was definitely not living up to  the standards of the first three (or four).  That is not to say that it  wasn't funny.  I don't know that I've read an Adams book that wasn't funny.  Nor is it to say that Adams isn't a wonderful, brilliant writer. But I do  think that well enough should have been let alone. Arthur has been looking  for Earth or a reasonable facsimile, but no matter where he looks it goes  from bad to worse, the &quot;worse&quot; being NowWhat, where the only  indigenous species on the planet is a boghog that communicates by biting...  hard. Arthur eventually finds himself on an out of the way planet that he  landed on when his spacecraft wrecks on it.  There he becomes the  SandwichMaker sent to the people by Bob.  Later, Trillian finds Arthur to  leave something with him. Or someone.  Random, their daughter.  Which,  needless to say, is quite a surprise to Arthur since he didn't know he had  a daughter, nor had any opportunity to create one.  Well, eventually all  hell breaks loose and it goes downhill from there. Fenchurch just vanished  without a trace and Zaphod... well, who knows what happened to Zaphod. Like  I said, this wasn't a horrible book, but you may just want to leave it  alone.  If you liked the ending in So Long then skip Mostly Harmless.	2000-09-12
US	51250638	RJKP7DGZS7KIB	0060987324	831264929	Girlfriend in a Coma	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Interesting Perspective of the State of the World Today	A few hours after Richard and Karen have sex for the first time, Karen  tells Richard of the dark visions she's been having and gives him a letter  to return to her unopened the following day.  The letter goes unreturned,  because a few hours after that she goes into a coma... for almost 18 years.   Nine months after she goes into a coma Karen gives birth to a little girl,  Megan.  What follows is an examination of the lives of Richard and his  friends, as they go through their various careers.  When Karen finally  wakes up, it gets a little weird.  I'm not going to go into details, I  don't want to give anything away.  Let's just say that the time following  Karen's awakening is an insight into the way the world might go if we  continue the path we are on. I only put this book down when I had to,  although sometimes I had to scratch my head and wonder just what Douglas  Coupland was thinking.	2000-09-12
US	51250638	R1SV2H90X7YQQW	0451456734	507781919	Queen of the Darkness	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Satisfying End to a Wonderful Trilogy	When I finished the second book, Heir to the Shadows, I immediately  started on this one.  Jaenelle has finally made her Offering to the  Darkness, and has set up her court as the Queen of Ebon Askavi.  She is  finally in the full blossom of her unimaginable power.  The Blood have been  slaughtering her people in an effort to take over her lands, and she must  find a way to destroy the taint that has taken over many of the Blood.   Even with the help of her Court and the Kindred, their combined strength  may not be enough to keep the Realms from being destroyed in a terrible  war. <br />In some books I feel like I'm left hanging, even though it's the  end of the trilogy, with what-if's and what-about's wandering through my  head.  I did not feel this way at the end of this trilogy.  The ending was  a perfect conclusion to a wonderful, captivating series.	2000-09-12
US	51250638	R2I29BTI4SE0LT	0380771292	779993000	Black Thorn, White Rose	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic Fairy Tales Rewritten	This is the fourth anthology of Datlow and Windling's that I have read.   If you've read any of the fairy tale anthologies and liked them, then you  shouldn't be disappointed with this one.  &quot;Stronger Than Time&quot;  tells the story of &quot;Sleeping Beauty&quot; from an original  perspective.  &quot;Godson&quot; is a story about a young man whose  &quot;god&quot;-father is Satan.  &quot;Sweet Bruising Skin&quot; is an  interesting and disturbing take on &quot;The Princess and the Pea.&quot;  With stories by Peter Straub, Roger Zelazny, Patricia C. Wrede and more,  this is an anthology that's definitely worth the read.	2000-09-06
US	51250638	R2J5V8ALAQ4RF8	0380778726	827370471	Ruby Slippers, Golden Tears	Books	4	7	7	N	N	As Good As The Ones Before It	I read two of the series before I read this one and it lives up to the  standards of the others.  As in the other books, the stories range from  dark to humorous.  Many modern authors give their own unique and wonderful  spin on classic fairy tales.  There were a few that stood out in my mind  for different reasons. There was &quot;Roach in Loafers,&quot; which was a  play on &quot;Puss in Boots,&quot; that struck me as a wonderful, funny,  and modern spin on an old classic.  &quot;Billy Fearless&quot; added a  humorous southern twist to &quot;A Tale About a Boy Who Went Forth To Learn  What Fear Was.&quot; &quot;The Fox Wife&quot; while long (over seventy  pages) was still interesting. And lastly, Anne Bishop's &quot;Match  Girl&quot; was a dark, disturbing tale involving different instruments of  torture.  On a side note, if you liked &quot;Match Girl&quot; then you most  likely will love Bishop's trilogy &quot;The Black Jewels.&quot; These  stories are definitely adult, and if you like Tanith Lee, Neil Gaiman,  Joyce Carol Oates and others, you should pick up any of the Datlow and  Windling anthologies.	2000-09-06
US	51250638	RBXJU9S16FP67	0812505182	465915454	The Magic of Recluce (Recluce series, Book 1)	Books	2	26	34	N	N	How Disappointing	I've seen so many books by L.E. Modesitt, Jr. I thought I would pick up  one.  If he's written so many books, then he must be good, right? Boy, was  I wrong.  Maybe it was just me, but I thought the main character, Lerris,  seemed rather slow and dimwitted at times, but then out of the blue he'd  realize &quot;Oh, Tamra's in trouble&quot; or &quot;I'm a order  master.&quot; A lot of things happened without explanation.  For example,  it's revealed that Lerris is a black-staffer.  When did this happen? What  does it involve? Why can they not seem to lie? At one point in the story he  realizes out of the blue that a certain character in the book is his uncle.  How did he know that? He'd never met the guy before in his life. Lerris  also seemed to focus on minor difficulties rather than problems that would  have been more interesting for the reader.  Such as, Lerris is told his  father is an order master, but he never knew.  But that knowledge just  passed with hardly more than a &quot;Oh, I didn't know that, how  interesting.&quot; Also, Lerris is bored.  Extremely bored.  And he never  fails letting the reader know about it.  All the references to boredom were  just that... boring!<br />Most of the story is in first person, past tense,  from the viewpoint of Lerris.  In some places information was needed that  couldn't be given from Lerris' viewpoint, so the author switched to third  person.  That was fine, since it wouldn't make since for Lerris to be  talking about something that he wasn't there for.  The thing that bothered  me was that the author switched to present tense.  So part of the book is  in past tense, and part of it is in present.  Another thing that bothered  me in those sections of the book was that instead of referring to the  people in those sections by their names, the author referred to them as  &quot;the black-haired woman&quot; or &quot;the blond woman&quot;... even  after they call each other by name.  Another thing that bothered me was  this.When a conversation was being overheard, instead of hearing the  whole conversation, apparently only the middle part of sentences were  heard.  ...looked a lot like this... ...a little annoying...<br />And finally  the thing that bothered me more than anything was the authors pervasive use  of sound effects throughout the *entire* novel.  I have an imagination and  I think leaving such things to the imagination is better than filling it in  for the reader.  Here is a short list of some of the most frequently used  sounds effects and their interpretations:<br />Wheeee.... eeeeee....  eeuuhhhhh.... - horse<br />Thrummmmmm... thrummmmmm.... - thunder<br />Thunk!  Thunk! Thunk! - waitress putting down glasses on a table<br />Snaaaaaaaath....  snathhhhh... - snoring<br />Rrrrrrrr... rrrrruuuuurghhhhh... - stomach  growling<br />Thunk. - a falling body, presumably dead<br />Bheeeaaaa... -  sheep<br />Yee-ah! Yee-ah! - a cawing crow<br />...accuffff... acuffffff...  acuuu... - coughing<br />pppeeeepppp.... - chirping insects or frogs<br />Here is  a quick example of a typical fight between Lerris, who uses a staff, and  another person, most likely using a sword or magic fireballs, with  translations in parentheses:<br />Whhhhsttttt... (a  fireball)<br />Whhhhssssstttt... (another fireball)<br />Thumpedy... thump... (a  galloping horse)<br />Whhhhsttttttt! (another fireball)<br />Whhhhssssttttt! (yet  another fireball)<br />EEEiiiiiii! (someone screaming in  agony)<br />WHHHHHHHSSSSSSSSSTTTTTTTTT! (a really really big  fireball)<br />&quot;Aeeeeeeeiiiiii....&quot; (more  agony)<br />&quot;Ouuuuuffffff.....&quot; (someone hitting the ground)<br />Thud.  (a falling body)<br />Now, after this review, you may be wondering why I gave  it two stars instead of one.  It's true that nothing much happened through  the first half of the book, but if you can make it through to the second  half of the book, it *does* get better.  All the above mentioned things are  still prevalent, but the story itself was a little more interesting.  I do  have to admit, this is the first book I've read in a long time that I've  had to force myself to finish.	2000-08-21
US	51250638	R2UAPWNWJQNY6V	0451456718	81571344	Daughter of the Blood (Black Jewels, Book 1)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Dark, touching, and captivating	As soon I read the first couple of pages this book immediately sucked me  into the world of Anne Bishop's creating.  Bishop makes the characters in  this book come alive.  Jaenelle is a character you can fall in love with.   She's sweet, funny, innocent, and wise well beyond her years.  When she's  sad, so was I; and when she's happy I couldn't help but laugh at some of  the things she said.  She's also the most powerful witch to have ever  existed.  She's definately not any witch, she is Witch.  And she's only a  child yet.  The story involves two men, one of which is Saetan, the High  Lord of Hell, who are not exactly enemies but definitely not friends,  struggling to work together, or at least not against each other, for the  sake of protecting and influencing Jaenelle for the better.  She's young  and can still be corrupted like the other women in this world where women  rule over men, enslaving and torturing them.  Why did I only give this book  four stars? I definitely would give it five except for one thing.  The  caste hierarchy and jewel ranking system was a bit confusing despite the  charts at the beginning of the book, but were eventually figured out.  In  short, I loved this book, and could not put it down; when I did put it  down, I expected to see Jaenelle or Saetan himself in the room with me.	2000-08-13
US	51250638	R2KZY4LR97G79O	0316171107	972725087	Like a Hole in the Head	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What Can I Say... I Loved It!	I picked up this book on a whim, read the first page, and had to have it.   I really loved the main character, Jill, and her sarcastic attitude.  Jill  works at The Bitter Muse, a small used bookstore.  One day while the boss  was out of town a dwarf came in looking to sell a rare first edition copy  of a Jack London novel.  After Jill sells it, the dwarf comes back, wanting  her to return the book.  And he came back with an assassin.  I really liked  the assassin character; he was extremely polite, almost a &quot;so sorry to  bother you but...&quot; attitude.  Jill has to go on a frantic chase all  over California and Nevada to find the book... or else! The way the book is  written, it's almost like someone telling a friend what happened to them on  the way home from work; very straightforward, with not a lot of extraneous  information.  The way the author had the mundane mixed with the unusual was  great.  I didn't know what Jill was going to say or do next.  She just  couldn't let anything go without a smart remark.  Towards the end I thought  it might have become a little *too* outrageous, but that was part of the  book's charm.  I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.	2000-08-10
US	51250638	R1SD2ENU5LJ4JE	0671876937	181267391	Master of Many Treasures	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Little Unnecessary	I liked &quot;Pigs Don't Fly&quot; and was excited when I saw the sequel  at the store, but after reading it, I'm a little disappointed.  Don't get  me wrong, I didn't think it was bad, but I was a little let down.  The plot  is pretty much the same as the other two books of Mary Brown's that I've  read.  I've enjoyed them all but I would like to see something besides  &quot;heroine on a quest with several animals that she can talk to.&quot;   This particular novel is about Summer's continued quest to find her only  love, Jasper, who is a dragon.  But he's not a dragon all the time.   Because she kissed him three times, he must spend three months a year in  human form.  Summer is accompanied by her loyal dog, Growch, who is frank,  uncouth, and lovable, and also by a dancing bear that she rescued, a thief  that is convinced she's after treasure, a ten-year-old slave (also  rescued), and a magical creature created by Buddha.  While this book is  almost but not entirely like it's predecessor, it's still an interesting  story in and of itself.	2000-08-10
US	51250638	R1L06A2EQINJ1H	0380791269	858619462	The Gilded Chain:: A Tale of the King's Blades (Tales of the King's Blades Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Interesting Idea	I thought that Dave Duncan had an interesting idea in this novel.  The  King's Blades are magically bound to the King, or if not the King, then  whomever the King gives them to.  However, they are not bound to do every  little whim of their ward; they are only bound to make sure that no harm  comes to their ward, and to do nothing that would bring them to harm.  In  short, they give up their lives for whomever they are bound to, if  necessary.  This, obviously, can cause some foreseeable problems.  For  example, if a Blade's ward is traitorous to the King, reporting it would be  impossible.  The Blade's binding would not permit this, since would result  in the death of the ward he was sworn to protect.  I found this book an  enjoyable read, but I do have to admit that sometimes years passed without  any segue, although I did find that it wasn't really necessary to date each  section, for it fit in with the story.  This book is about the greatest  Blade of all, Durendal, as he fights for his ward, for his king, and for  his life.  This is a story of swords and sorcery, treason, courtly  intrigue, and a mission to a far-away place that will take Durendal years  to reach.  All in all, an interesting book that I would recommend.  I think  I will be reading more of the King's Blades in the future.	2000-08-10
US	51250638	R3J2PZGF1PNNDP	0061056804	901105922	A Hero Born (Realms of Chaos: The First Book)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Interesting Book	This is the first book that I've read of Michael Stackpole's.  It's the story of a young man named Locke, who is the third son of one of the world's greatest hero's.  Locke was a very interesting character that,  while young, had a marvelous, logical way of looking at the world and  figuring out problems.  Locke is sent by the Emperor into the Realm of  Chaos to succeed in doing what his father was killed trying to do.  Chaos  is a fasinating land that changes everyone, including animals, that go to  it in physical ways, and the longer the time spent there, the greater the  change.  It is also a land of many deadly creatures, including various  tribes of Chademons.  There were a few parts of the plot that I didn't  totally understand, but didn't hinder me from enjoying the book, and a few  things that I thought could have been a little more clear or focused on a  bit more.  I won't go into details because I wouldn't want to give away  anything.  All in all this was a good book that I would recommend.	2000-07-31
US	51250638	R1EOQMESX9DDEK	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Great Discworld Novel	&quot;The Light Fantastic&quot; is the second book in Terry Pratchett's popular Discworld Series.  In this book we continue on Rincewind and Twoflower's journey around the Disc.  Rincewind is the only person who can  save the Disc from total destruction, which wouldn't be so bad except for  the fact that he's the world's worst wizard ever since he can only keep one  spell in his head.  Every wizard from the Unseen University is trying to  capture Rincewind, or at least Rincewind's spell, but Rincewind just  doesn't know it.  Accompanied by Cohen the Barbarian and an ex-Druid virgin  sacrifice, and of course, the Luggage, Rincewind and Twoflower make their  way back to Ankh-Morpork.	2000-07-29
US	51250638	RMJ3I6OHOP5NK	156718457X	278615715	The Sacred Circle Tarot: A Celtic Pagan Journey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful Deck and Interesting Book	I have been interested in the Ancient Celts and especially Druids for years, especially since I learned of my Irish ancestery.  Being interested in such things, I was drawn to this deck in my search for the  &quot;perfect&quot; deck for me.  It has beautiful, detailed images, each  with its own symbolism and meaning explained in the well written book that  comes with the deck.  It was well worth purchasing and I have never stopped  enjoying looking at the cards and reflecting on them.  This is the perfect  deck for someone interested in the Celts or following the Celtic path.	2000-07-29
US	51250638	R2IUG0HLN71942	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious!	If you're a fan of Douglas Adams, then I heartily recommend Terry Pratchett.  &quot;The Color of Magic&quot; was his first Discworld novel, and while not necessary to understanding the rest of the series, it helps  you to understand the history and background of Discworld, and is a great  read in and of itself.  Pratchett has an irreverent sense of humor than  fans of British humor should appreciate.  The story revolves around  Rincewind, the worlds worst magician, who can't seem to remember any  spells, Twoflower, the world's first tourist, who looks at the world  through rose colored glasses, and his Luggage.	2000-07-29
US	51250638	R2PJXSYSIEVVAF	0380718758	120549291	Snow White, Blood Red	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Wonderful Fairy Tales for Adults	This is not the first book that Datlow and Windling have edited that I have read.  The first book of theirs that I bought was &quot;Black Swan, White Raven.&quot;  I expected this book to live up to the standards set by  the first book I read and I was not disappointed.  It's a wonderful  collection of fairy tales for adults, ranging from dark to poignant to  humorous, and were frequently erotic.  These fairy tales are much more  satifying than the &quot;once-upon-a-time-happily-ever-after&quot; fairy  tales that most of us were accustomed to hearing as children.  It has a  wide range of brilliant authors, each offering a unique perspective to  different tales.  It is a wonderful, well-rounded book that I was loathe to  put down.  If you like fairy tales, then this is a *must* for you.	2000-07-29
US	51250638	R195NC4V27GXQ9	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Magic and Women Just Don't Mix... or Do They?	In this, the thrid book of Terry Pratchett's Discworld series, a young girl is given a wizard's powers.  Well everyone knows that a girl can't be a wizard! Girls are witches, and that's that.<br />Esk is the eighth son of an  eighth son... or at least she was supposed to be. The wizard that bestowed  his staff and powers upon her died the second she was born and didn't know  that the eighth son *wasn't* a son at all.  As Esk grows she is taken as an  apprentice witch by Granny Weatherwax, a wonderful, humorous old woman that  doesn't take any nonsense, especially from that wizard's staff that has a  mind of its own.  But soon Granny discovers that the wizardly powers just  won't stay out of it and that Esk must be taken to Unseen University for  training.  The only problem is that the Unseen University doesn't allow  women, after all, wizardy is a man's world.  Join Esk and Granny on their  way to Ankh-Morpork and see what happens in this wonderful book.	2000-07-29
