US	51261349	R2T8TJECGKD3AA	0783892616	368675795	Corridors of Death (G. K. Hall Nightingale Series Edition)	Books	4	32	32	N	N	An intelligent mystery with a whiff of better things to come	This is the first of RDE's series of mysteries set in modern-day British institutions, introducing Robert Amiss, the unlikely and likeable hero of the series, and his policeman friend Jim Milton.  It demonstrates RDE's trade-mark clear-sighted understanding of her settings, in this case the intricacies and absurdities of the British government and civil service.  At the same time she does not lecture.  She hits the plot straight away (we don't even get to meet the murder victim alive) and does not let up the pace.  Amiss is the junior-but-fast-tracked (graduate entrant), intelligent and basically decent Private Secretary to the murdered Permanent Secretary who is recruited by Milton to be his mole and his guide to the complex hierarchy, conventions and personalities involved.  Amiss' explanations get a wee bit laboured - I can't believe that a senior British policeman needs to have explained to him what the various &quot;Secretaries&quot; in the civil service really connote - but I guess explanation in some form or another is unavoidable if she is not to lose her non-British readers entirely.  As it is, this is a painless and indeed enjoyable introduction to the British civil service by an insider (as RDE has been a civil servant herself).<br />Another RDE trademark is that believable and distinct (and recognisably British) characters come to life with remarkable economy of words.  As usual with RDE the plot is not over-clever, but nonetheless tight and can't be faulted.  Her strength really is making everything so true-to-life.  Policemen engage in real hard thinking and thorough dog-work, coping at the same time with political pressures.  People act true to nature and yet don't always conform to steorotype.  Milton and Amiss display real intelligence and understanding of human nature (no glaring oversight of an obvious angle which proves to be the key to the mystery).  RDE mixes realism and entertainment to a commendable degree.  Needless to say, she writes well;well-paced, articulate and snappy prose.<br />This books take the point of view of Jim Milton more than Robert Amiss, which is interesting for devotees of the series because Amiss quickly becomes central whereas Milton fades away gradually.  For the reader interested in character development, this first book provides an important piece in the jigsaw.  Here Milton is portrayed more vividly than in any other book in the series, and we learn to respect his patience and professionalism, and understand a little more of his personal life.  Amiss is a bit flat here compared to the following and later books where he becomes more lively.  One gets the feeling that perhaps at this stage RDE meant Milton to be her central character rather than Amiss.  But this is the only book where he is in real and appropriate employment so for Amiss fans it is a chance to see him on his homeground.  <br />I give this four rather then five stars because some later books in this series (Matricide, Ten Lords, Publish) are more deserving of full honours.  She hasn't quite gotten into her satirical stride in this first book, though that's not to say that she's not irreverent.  But it is only in later books that her satire gets truly and howlingly wicked, and her comic talent blossoms.  I recommend any book in the series; not one of them is a dud.	2001-06-26
US	51261349	R28PCZT2HMMZCL	0451408020	700133089	Forbidden Magic	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Sparkling wit which works for me ...	I'm intrigued by the vastly differing opinions reflected in the reviews for this book.  I think it's because different people read romance for different reasons.  Me, I read for light fun and amusement, having done enough hard thinking by the end of a day's work.  This is not to say that I read mindlessly  - I still demand that my books, even romances, be well-written (i.e. no cliches, no poor prose, no dialogue which goes &quot;clunk&quot; onto the floor, please), and have basic integrity (i.e. be historically accurate and have characters and stories which don't require me to suspend too much disbelief).<br />This book satisfies these requirements.  It has these and the basic ingredients of a good romance (adversity, rescue therefrom, romancing, and so forth).  Best of all, it has the wit to make me smile  -  the dialogue sparkles, there are many clever turns of phrase, and a strong sense of fun.  I also like the fact that the plot doesn't runs along bog-standard melodramatic lines, but has enough eccentricity (off-centredness) to hold my interest, and some nice period touches too.  A happy bonus is that the characters are likeable and warm (though I agree the grandmother is a dull villainess, she is too minor a character for this to bother me), and most of all charming and witty.  Sax wins me over by his not taking himself too seriously and his thoroughgoing niceness (which his aristocratic insouciance saves from preciousness) and Meg is an honest woman of wit, though (justifiably, I think) a tad insecure and confused.  Their humour makes them irresistable to me.  I'm not one for the tortured and heartless knight who is miraculously redeemed by the love of a good woman (Sax is patently a kind man so him taking to unassuming Meg doesn't seem incredible to me), nor for the Great Trial of Love (mercifully the inevitable lovers' misunderstandings weren't over-blown).  I like my romance with a light touch.  If I wanted tormented souls, I'd read Thomas Hardy.  If I wanted to be swept off my feet, I'd turn to Dorothy Dunnett's Lymond.  If I wanted absolute period authenticity and sharp social comment, I'd pick up a Jane Austen.  If I wanted to improve my mind, or if I wanted an unpredictable plot, I wouldn't turn to a romance!  When I just want to be amused and entertained, without having my intelligence insulted, this book works well for me.	2001-03-23
US	51261349	R3TQLSEQGFJED7	0140512004	87384617	Dictionary of Troublesome Words, The Penguin (Reference Books)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A Fun Guide to Good English	This book is entitled either plain &quot;Troublesome Words&quot; or in older editions, &quot;The Penguin Dictionary of Troublesome Words&quot;.<br />For most of us non-Grammarians whose English is instinctive rather than based on intimate knowledge of linguistic rules, trying to improve our English by reading books in grammar or English usage can be quite an ordeal, as most of them are dry and technical.  Bill Bryson's book is slim (192 pages in my edition), palatable and great fun.  Alphabetically, Mr Bryson sets out the most common mistakes in English spelling, grammar and usage which he has come across.  Most of the more obvious &quot;troublesome words&quot; are covered succinctly, clearly and with lashings of humour.  Examples:  &quot;VERY should be made to pay its way in sentences&quot;; &quot;VARIOUS DIFFERENT is inescapably redundant&quot;; &quot;The Oxford English Dictionary contains 414,825 words.  IRREGARDLESS is not one of them.&quot;  At the end of the book is a section on punctuation.  Illustrations of correct and incorrect usage are helpfully given.  What adds to the fun is that most illustrations of wrong usage are taken from leading US and UK newspapers and periodicals, and even occasionally from an authority on the language; how nice to see their feet of clay.  Another point in this book's favour; Mr Bryson being an American who has spent much of his professional life in the British journalistic profession, sees things from both sides of the Atlantic and does not have an overt bias one way or the other.  (Unlike many British who have an almost hysterical aversion to Americanisms.)<br />While admirable and enjoyable, this book is too short and too personal to serve as a good reference.  If you have a particular problem, it may or may not be addressed in this book.  (This lack of comprehensiveness is why I give this four stars instead of five.)  Nonetheless, anyone who studies and takes to heart the contents of this book will undoubtedly improve his English and will do his tiny part to stem the tide of sloppy and plain  bad English which threatens to swamp us all today.  It is a shame this book is out of print.  I would love to send a copy to every journalist I know.<br />Finally, I must tell of how my edition of this book unwittingly demonstrates the pervasiveness of bad English and the desperation of the good fight against it.  Mr Bryson says &quot;FULSOME is one of the most frequently misused words in English.  The sense that is usually accorded it - of being copious or lavish or unstinting - is almost the opposite of the word's dictionary meaning.  FULSOME is related to FOUL and means odious and overfull, offensively insincere.  'Fulsome praise', properly used, isn't a lavish tribute; it is unctuous and insincere toadying.&quot;  In my edition (1997 reissue of the second edition), the back page quotes the Guardian (a leading UK newspaper, for Americans who may not know), as saying &quot;Deserves fulsome praise.  Its merit is that it is trying to equate the rules prescribed by good English with the demands of the general consensus.&quot;  Oh dear, indeed.  Sabotaged by one's own publisher.	2001-02-23
US	51261349	RE15ELC22N8ZG	0452272599	462653091	M. Butterfly: With an Afterword by the Playwright	Books	2	8	16	N	N	Trite	Trite but true!  The (trite) notion underpinning this play, that people tend not to be too discerning when thinking about foreign places and people (which leads to stereotyping) is amply demonstrated by the confusion over the setting of the play.  Let's get this straight:  This play M Butterfly is set in CHINA, Puccini's opera Madama Butterfly is set in JAPAN (a very different country) and neither are set in VIETNAM (though the modern musical based on Madama Butterfly, Miss Saigon, is).  Now on to the play itself ...<br />The play's premise is that the Western Man (represented by real-life French diplomat Gallimard) is so powerfully taken with the myth of the perfect submissive Asian woman who would love him to death (represented  by the Chinese opera singer Song Liling) that he would go to great lengths, even mind-boggling self-delusion, to realise this myth.  In doing so, he proves that he, not the Asian woman, is the manipulated one; manipulated by his own prejudices and preconceptions.  <br />The myth of the idealised submissive Asian female awaiting her salvation by the love of a big strong western male is deserving enough of explosion.  The megaton explosion is handily provided by Song being the ultimate manipulator; a Chinese spy after Gallimard's state secrets, not his love, who also happens to be a man exploiting Gallimard and his fantasy of the devoted Asian woman.  Well well.  ... That's about it, though.  After (it hopes) pulling the rug from under the audiences' feet, the play doesn't replace the rug with any solid flooring.  This play relies too much on exposing a stereotype  -  if in the first place you have never bought into the stereotype of the Asian woman dying to love the white man, it really has very little to say to you.  Anyone who has thought through the complex implications of the &quot;Pinkerton syndrome&quot; will find the play rather stale.  Admittedly there's something gratifying in having this faintly-offensive stereotype thrown into the faces of a western audience, but this hardly validates the play as a profound voice or an artistic endeavour (and in fact, it's a tad childish).  This play isn't very deep; it doesn't improve upon a second reading, nor upon performance.  Stripped of its shock value, I find not much left.	2001-02-17
US	51261349	R2RUEXT98I96QO	0679777504	728817726	Oscar and Lucinda	Books	2	24	36	N	N	Not everybody loves this book	If I hadn't read this book, the praises garnered would make me think I've missed out on something wonderful.  But I have, long before this book became glamourised by Ralph Fiennes' face.  And I did not enjoy it.  I did not find it particularly insightful, and I felt it did not contain enough original thought to justify its self-conciousness.  I was not convinced by the characters, and the story-telling was so lacking in compulsion I had to drag myself to the end of the book.  I was rewarded at the end of my efforts by what I will admit was a rather unexpected  denouement; but a clever ending doth not a great novel make.  All this book taught me was that I should not assume that I will enjoy a book all because it has won a prestigious book prize.  I did wonder at my failure to appreciate what some seem to consider to be a literary gem, so I did a little straw poll amongst my well-read intellectual friends, and what do you know; none of those who'd read it liked it either.  So you are warned; you may enjoy this book, as many people apparently have, or it might just leave you cold.	2001-02-16
US	51261349	R2XIP5Y1BRQEQU	0451527623	439617492	The Scarlet Pimpernel (Signet Classics)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Bubbly which doesn't mature well	I'd read this book and its numerous sequels as a young teenager, and I remember loving them.   The dash, the adventure, the romance, the period charm ...  These books seem to me to be the proto-type of dashing historical fiction (as perfected by Dorothy Dunnett).  Recently, having suffered the clumsiness of the Broadway musical of the same name, I decided to go back to the source to rediscover the magic.  But alas, it was not to be!  I was surprised by how much it now grates against my adult sensibilities.  The characters are two-dimensional and stereotypical (and irritatingly slow on the up-take), the dialogue unnatural (far too much repetition for instance of affected exclamations), the plot corny and the writing lacking in finesse.  And of course, it is incredibly political incorrect in the dewy-eyed and over-romanticised view it takes of the (oh so wronged) noble nobility (I write sarcastically, of course).  Truly great juvenile fiction can be well appreciated by the adult mind (See Diana Wynne Jones); unfortunately this one just doesn't cut it for me.<br />Nonetheless, this really is a classic of its genre, so I would still recommend this to any young person, or anyone who is prepared to switch off his critical faculties and just enjoy an indulgent story.	2001-02-16
US	51261349	RLC078X3CDGW2	0877844054	518988950	The Wisdom of Proverbs, Job & Ecclesiastes	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An excellent introduction to wisdom literature	Derek Kidner is a brilliant biblical expositor.  Here, in one slim paperback, he deftly guides the serious student of the bible through some of the most notoriously difficult books of the Old Testament.  By it's nature, this is not a detailed commentary, rather it goes for a sweep  -  seeing the wood instead of the trees, as it were.  While undoubtedly learned and thoughtful, it is also very readable.  It sheds clear light, brings to life, and sets the wisdom contained in these books in the context of real life.	2001-02-15
US	51261349	R1SPF6EQ2G1IBD	0802800920	720395024	Story of the Church, The	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gallop through the ages ...	2000 years of convoluted church history clearly condensed into one slim paperback - an amazing achievement.  I know no better sweep of the centuries which packs in all the major events in the life and times of the body of God which an evangelical Christian would be interested to know about.  It really packs it in, yet does not lose readability.  And knowledge of world history is not essential for understanding this book.  It has an almost outrageously ambitious aim, and in my opinion it succeeds.  Naturally, it has biases, since it has to take a view as to what is important enough to include, and it has an inevitable Western emphasis, but for me these minor faults are more than off-set by the quick, broad scope it offers.	2001-02-15
US	51261349	R1G6XKU11XL5GE	0394711637	122332221	Dolly and the Doctor Bird	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Miss-able	This book is sometimes published as OPERATION NASSAU; all the &quot;Dolly&quot; series have, confusingly, alternative names.  The &quot;Dolly&quot; series, set in present time, is a poor shadow of Dorothy Dunnett's brilliant Lymond series, or even the more convoluted and less fun Niccolo series.  To be fair, she writes the lighter &quot;Dolly&quot; books for relaxation in between the heavy research and plotting demands of her historical novels.  Nonetheless, lack of historical weight does not explain the uneven pace, inadequate characterisation and sheer absence of a &quot;hook&quot; which keeps a reader reading.  This offering in the series is one of the worst culprits.  The characters are particularly unreal.  What grates with me most is the underlying assumption in this book (which plays quite a significant role in the plot) that the heroine, because she is a successful doctor, must have had a huge complex about achievement and self-worth to have been so driven as to become a professional at all.  This unfortunately killed off the pleasure of what was already a fairly ho-hum reading experience for me.	2001-02-15
US	51261349	R1J4BO9BJHOTJZ	0394523776	984361763	Dolly and the Bird of Paradise	Books	3	20	24	N	N	A &quot;modern Lymond&quot; fails to stir	Dorothy Dunnett is the celebrated authoress of the Francis Crawford of Lymond series (beginning with THE GAME OF KINGS), which to many are the definitive works of historical fiction by a living author.  For some unfathomable reason, her &quot;Dolly&quot; books (of which BIRD OF PARADISE is the first) don't work nearly so well.  They somehow fall flat on their faces - laboured, uneven, and lacking excitement.  BIRD OF PARADISE is actually one of the better ones, but even so it seems pale and sickly, particularly when compared to the vibrancy and grippingness of the Lymond books.<br />The premise for these books don't portend disaster; they are light-weight and set in the latter twentieth century.  Each book is self-contained, and is narrated by a different woman (the &quot;bird&quot; in the title).  The hero (an English spy and world-famous portrait-painter) makes a enigmatic appearance in all.  The stories are in the style of the Gothic romance:  There is suspense, danger and mystery, and sometimes a dash of romance.  You wouldn't think there would be difficulty in this, and there is nothing obviously bad about the writing itelf, yet the stories just don't take off.<br />Nonetheless, a Lymond fan might find these books an interesting comparison.  Lymond is the definitive romantic super-hero:  An astute politician, a brilliant soldier and tactician, charismatic leader of men and armies, master spy and dissembler, accomplished musician, razor-sharp intellectual and outstanding lover; while endowed with fierce patriotism, integrity, loyalty and a sense of humour, he also has a rapier wit, a brutal streak, and neurotic tendencies (in the fine tradition of the mysterious and tormented hero).  A favourite parlour game of Lymond fans is:  How much is Lymond a product of his time?  In other words, what would he be like if he lived in our day and age?  Would he be a statesman?  Perhaps a diplomatic?  A cutting-edge scientist who in his spare time writes devastating classicalmusic critiques and fences competitively?<br />I believe that DD's answer, consciously or otherwise, is in Johnson Johnson, the hero of the &quot;Dolly&quot; books.  It is too jarring for a persona as dashing and glittering as Lymond drop into our real world in all his flamboyant glory.  JJ is Lymond in essence, but banked down.  The mystery is achieved by him hiding behind a pair of bifocal glasses (which, you will come to realise, he doesn't actually need), an inscrutable expression and a mild manner.  His intellectual and scheming prowess are exercised in the course of his real vocation of a spy in Her Majesty's service, which also serves to display his patriotism and his enigma.  His artistic side is expressed in his portrait painting, and the assassination of his wife (which occurs before the book begins its narrative) hints at his torment.  Dashingness is supplied via the sleekness and luxury of his yacht, &quot;Dolly&quot;.  I feel sure that while JJ can not sweep around in period clothing, cut dashes through royal courts or win glory through soldiering as Lymond could, he can be as interesting a character, even within the constraints of the more familiar twentieth century.  Unfortunately, in DD transporting her creation through time, something seems to have been lost along the way, and the reader is left feeling disappointed and flat.  JJ is not nearly as arresting a character as Lymond, and the narratives are not nearly as interesting.	2001-02-15
US	51261349	R33YHH51XJ4GM7	0745163106	540848201	Wildfire at Midnight	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Romance of Skye	This review relates to the printed, not audio, book.  This is one of the better Mary Stewarts.  She writes what I suppose might be termed romantic suspense, or modern gothic romances.  A heroine has to solve a mystery, avoid a danger and find the love of her life.  Some Mary Stewarts are just too precious, but this one just escapes that fate.  The essential ingredients of suspense, good story-telling and well-drawn characters are all here - and these qualities on their own would make this book a pleasurable enough read.  But what makes this book stand out for me is her highly evocative depiction of the Isle of Skye.  The Scottish Highlands are generally great fodder for mood writing, and Ms Stewart really milks the romance, majesty and mystery of the Cuillin mountains.  It was years after I read this book that I finally clapped eyes on the Cuillin mountains, one quiet late afternoon on a sunny summer's day; yet thanks largely to Ms Stewart I felt my spine tingle with the magic of the moment.	2001-02-15
US	51261349	RF7OGMMRWH89S	0679730346	318681545	London Fields	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Very clever, and heartless	I read this book when it was first published, and at the end of it my only thought was &quot;My, what an extremely clever man Mr Amis is.&quot;  This could be highest praise, or pretty damning, depending on your point of view.  Now that I'm in my intolerant old age I prefer to read for pleasure; the experience of reading this book was more of being bowled over than of enjoyment.  I've no doubt however that Mr Amis himself would be pleased with my impression.  Years later, the seedier side of London and Londoners he vividly portrayed is still imprinted upon my consciousness.  Whether one takes to this book is, I think, very much a matter of personal taste.  Anyone who wants heart-warming stuff should steer clear, and even those who just have a heart should brace themselves.  But if you want to admire someone flexing formidable authorial muscles, go for it.	2001-02-14
US	51261349	R1DSLHBFV92CVM	0156003937	403928966	A Fez of the Heart: Travels around Turkey in Search of a Hat	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A witty personal view	This book worked well for me for several reasons:  (1) It is written with wit and dash, (2) it is not sentimental, and (3) it presented to me a more profound Turkey from the sunny and one-dimensional picture shown to me as a tourist.  His impressions from his travels seem honest enough, though I haven't the expertise to judge his analysis.  Pinch of salt in hand (this being a personal impression by a non-expert), I thoroughly enjoyed this book.	2001-02-14
US	51261349	R208BCS5UCUHI6	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	2	5	8	N	N	False Notes, alas	As a music-lover, amateur musician, Anglophile and devoted fan of &quot;A Suitable Boy&quot;, I expected great things from this book.  The basic ingredients seemed so promising:  a peek into the lives of professional musicians and a tribute to the joys of classical music.  Unfortunately, this book just didn't take off for me.<br />There is the odd moment when Seth's feted &quot;poetic prose&quot; lifts the book, but only for a moment.  Most of the time it just plods along.  It's hard to pinpoint exactly why the book fails.  My one take is that his characters, particularly the central character of Michael, do not ring true.  Having lived a few years in England, I presumptuously think I know what I'm talking about when I say that Michael and company just don't feel like genuine British folk, who are anyway notoriously complex and difficut to get down right.  The characterisations are unconvincing, and the dialogue sounds false to my ear.  Perhaps &quot;A Suitable Boy&quot; and &quot;The Golden Gate&quot; worked better because they sprang respectively from his own home experience, and his years living and studying in California.  Perhaps he need to restrict the exercise of his undoubted talents to settings for which he has an intuitive and innate feel for.<br />Perhaps another reason why this book fails is because it has nothing truly original to say; but neither did &quot;A Suitable Boy&quot;, which was gripping notwithstanding it simply related realistic happenings in ordinary lives  -  which brings me back to my original theory which is that it is Seth's inadequate feel of the characters which inhibits him in &quot;Equal Music&quot;.  Many complain of the whineyness of Michael, but it is entirely Mr Seth's prerogative to create a whimpy character if he so wishes.  His failure rather is in that he does not make me sympathise with Michael, as a skilled writer in full exercise of his prowess surely could with even fundamentally unsympathetic characters.  Finally, perhaps it is hard to get into the emotional stream of the book unless one is very familiar with all the various pieces of music; Milan Kundera in &quot;The Unbearable Lightness of Being&quot; was a lot more successful in his use of Beethovan's Fifth Symphony as a metaphor, but then everyone knows That bit of music.  Perhaps Bach's Art of the Fugue is too obscure.	2001-02-13
US	51261349	R3KXIZXKOQJ1NJ	0425143066	890567238	Houses of Stone	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Very clever, cosy, and great fun	What a delight!  This is a Gothic romance on at least three levels.  It's like being invited to an intimate tea party with Ms Mertz (Ms Michaels' real name) together with a select group of literary types who love Jane Austen and the Bronte sisters and enjoy Ms Michaels' work, at which tea party she shares her trade secrets, explains her love for the genre and plays a clever parlour game with her guests.<br />At the most basic level, in the book the heroine is an English literature academic who discovers an unpublished manuscript of a Gothic romance written round about the beginning of the 18th century.  Chunks of painfully but authentically purple prose are conjured up by Ms Michaels for our delectation, in the approved Gothic romance style, complete with a decrepit ancestral mansion, heroine in psychological distress and physical danger, a Deadly Family Secret, and two male protagonists either of whom could be the hero or the villain.  More than a story, there is a real mystery as to who the writer is and how her novel related to real events.<br />Meanwhile, the heroine, while demonstrating the art of researching a gothic novel and expounding on the genre (e.g. as representing women's oppression and powerlessness in a male dominated world), is herself trapped in one.  She is in physical danger, she has just escaped a suffocating marriage and is still ensure of precisely how she wishes to operate in a male dominated world, and she has to work out which of two men is the hero and which is the villain.  There's even a Family Secret lurking.  This is the level which usually constitutes a Barbara M, and this is handled with above average dexterity  -  snappy scenes, real characters and good pace.  Cleverly, the characters are put through a classic Gothic plot even as they analyse Gothic and other plots; and Ms Michaels milks this shamelessly and delightfully.  For instance:  &quot;Whatever his motives, he was trying hard, and humility wasn't easy for a man of his arrogance.  Or was pride a more accurate word?  Karen smothered a smile.  Bill's pride and her prejudice against him - another classic plot!&quot;  The reader can't help but smile.<br />Finally, this book is a game with the reader, in which Ms Michaels cames clean with her agenda and issues a challenge.  I quote:  &quot;She had almost finished two-thirds of it now, and her familiarity with the conventions of the Gothic novel had inspired several hunches - educated guesses rather - as to how the book would end.  In one sense she hoped she was right, for that would prove how clever she was; in another sense she hoped [the author] would prove cleverer than she, scorning the old Gothic traditions in favour of a more original solution.&quot;  She has brilliantly articulated the reader's dilemma of wanting to best the author, and yet hoping the author is cleverer.  A protagonist says :  &quot;[The author] has set up the plot, and unless she cheats by introducing a new character or a vital clue at the last minute, an intelligent reader ought to be able to predict what will happen.&quot;  Too true.  Ms Michaels' plot resolutions usually seem obvious on hindsight, but they are seldom obvious when you are in the middle of them. For the record, I lost this game.  I guessed the wrong hero because I was prejudiced by one man's resemblance to a prominent hero of Elizabeth Peters' (another Ms Mertz pseudonym) and assumed she would not go against her own grain.  I should know better than to underestimate Ms Mertz and think that she would be bound by her own conventions.  Congratulations, Ms Mertz, and thanks for the fun, and the peep into your world.	2001-02-11
US	51261349	R2WBFCIWM1AE5D	0140119949	864051771	The Venetian Empire: A Sea Voyage	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A lively introduction to the Venetian Empire	This is an excellent little book for anyone interested in travelling and the history of the Venetian Empire.  Jan Morris mixes vivid descriptions of present-day places with lively accounts of the lives and ambitions of the Venetian emperialists and their various subjects.  She writes with sparkling wit and a cracking pace.  History in her hands is so far from dull.  The Venetians spring to life in all their glorious and colourful verve and cunning.  She ranges across the centuries with sensitivity, humour and insight.  There is no better introduction to the subject.	2001-02-10
US	51261349	R36F9RXDAVEAVJ	0899663184	999153365	The Game of Kings	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Putting the pleasure back into reading	This review relates to the entire Lymond series, which comprises 6 books and begins with this.  This series is sheer literary entertainment of the highest order.  The pace is fast and the plots are intelligent.  The writing is flamboyant and witty.  The reader is never condescended to or pandered to.  Dorothy Dunnett will ruthlessly kill off lovable characters if her plot requires, which lends a particularly heart-stopping aspect to one's involvement in the plot.  Amazingly, her novels are set in real history and populated by many real historical people.  I am told by students of history of the period that her research is almost faultless.  She brings history startlingly to life, partly by the use of modern prose, which unfortunately results in spoken words being less than authentic to the period, but I will put up with this for the immediacy and realism (to my modern ear) this brings.  No one tells a cracking good story with intelligence and wit better than Dorothy Dunnett.  Mercifully she does not try to moralise - this is pure entertainment with non-stop action.<br />An avid reader in my youth, at the start of my working life I found that I could not bear to read another word after a day poring over documents.  It was only when I was introduced to Dorothy Dunnett that I went back to reading for pleasure.  I was sucked into Lymond's intricate, exciting and realistic world of intrigue and adventure, to which I devoted every spare moment for a few weeks.  When I was done I spent weeks after pondering the plot and thinking about the characters.  Seldom have I been so overtaken by an imaginary world.  I acquired a taste for historical fiction, and even plain history.  And best of all, since then I have gone back to reading for pleasure.	2001-02-04
US	51261349	R2KEY3FELVMHAP	0373201729	304527914	Looking For Trouble (By Request 3'S)	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A Mixed Bag	The first book, &quot;Cinderman&quot; is impossible to swallow unless you first realise that it is pure fantasy.  It has breathtaking disregard for the rules of basic science (An invisible man?  Super-human strength?  Gimme a break ...), not to mention disdain for common sense (a famous scientist's bosses, financial backers and lab assistants have absolutely no idea what he's working on, not even whether it is in the field of chemistry or of physics?)  Once you get over these little, um, intellectual challenges, the story is pretty much your bog-standard romance, with moderately interesting characters, though not much of a plot. <br />By the time I get through the second offering, &quot;Cry for the Moon&quot;, I begin to worry about myself  -  how have I developed a taste for such dull fiction?  This heroine has few discernible charms, and a prominent fault in that she bursts into tears at every conceivable moment.  The hero is self-absorbed and tends to unnecessary self-flagellation.  The supporting cast of eccentric characters is, one supposed, meant to charm us, but I can't help feel that they undermine an already weak-ish story.  And since the bag of story lines and characters is so ill-sorted, why not throw in an element of the supernatural.  I feel this one is scraping the creative barrel.<br />But just when I'm about to give up on this genre (and myself), the last story, &quot;Chasing Trouble&quot;, reminds me why I read this stuff.  The plot comprising gangsters, the poor little rich girl and (you must be joking) an ascorbic private detective, is no more realistic; but it's not so much the story as how it is told and the characters that save the day.  This wise-cracking, compulsively lying heroine is truly no shrinking violet.  The hero manages to rise above the corny Private Detective persona by not taking himself too seriously and by facing up to PI stereotypes squarely.  They trade insults, engage in delightful double-crossing, and agonise only a little.All good fun.  The writing displays more wit and charm, the pace is good, and I fancy even the vocabulary used is more adventurous than in the previous two offerings.  Ms Stuart's muse was paying full attention when she wrote this one.	2001-02-03
US	51261349	R1KV10ZFXQYER6	0425124819	973496805	Black Rainbow	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not your run-of-the-mill gothic romance	You'd think that, having written 60 or so books in more-or-less the same genre, Ms Michaels / Peters would not have a spark of originality left in her.  But here she takes the features of a typical gothic romance and skillfully turns everything on its head.  The man and woman set up as the hero and heroine are not in fact the hero and the heroine.  The prize is not romantic happy-ever-after, but rather something apparently more pragmatic (a neat solution to a problem?), and perhaps even more idealistic than romance (social justice?).  And this delivered in Ms Michaels' usual competent and readable writing style.  Is there such a thing as a sensible, mature gothic romance?  If so, here it is.	2001-01-27
US	51261349	R1FRF3Y5Z9YV82	0373168454	541219219	Wild Thing (Harlequin American Romance, No. 845)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A delightful triumph over common sense	This book boast an outrageous, audacious plot (by Ms Stuart's own admission in an interview).  But what do you know - I fell for it.  Possibly because it was one of the first romance books I'd read for a long time (anyone more familiar with the genre should have predicted the mid-way &quot;twist&quot; on which so much hangs), and perhaps also because I was on vacation so my brain probably wasn't quite in gear.  But to give credit where it's due, the fact that I could read this with pleasure without my brain howling in protest (though my credulity did whimper a little) is testament to Ms Stuart skill and mastery of her art.  As with all romance fiction, don't expect anything intellectual, but hopefully if you are in the right frame of mind you will enjoy an undemanding and fun read.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R2LH6BYOVHE0SH	0373168454	541219219	Wild Thing (Harlequin American Romance, No. 845)	Books	3	1	14	N	N	A delightful triumph over common sense	This book boast an outrageous, audacious plot (by Ms Stuart's own admission in an interview).  But what do you know - I fell for it.  Possibly because it was one of the first romance books I'd read for a long time (anyone more familiar with the genre should have predicted the mid-way &quot;twist&quot; on which so much hangs), and perhaps also because I was on vacation so my brain probably wasn't quite in gear.  But to give credit where it's due, the fact that I could read this with pleasure without my brain howling in protest (though my credulity did whimper a little) is testament to Ms Stuart skill and mastery of her art.  As with all romance fiction, don't expect anything intellectual, but hopefully if you are in the right frame of mind you will enjoy an undemanding and fun read.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R3DRXXYBH04O9S	0373834225	680068901	Winter's Edge	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Um ... not one of her best	Anne Stuart is usually a dab hand at romance writing, but here she (unusually) fails to transcend her maudlin genre.  Oh dear, the old hackneyed memory-loss plot device.  And am I really expected to believe that two supposedly non-stupid people madly in love with each other completely mis-read the other even through marriage?  The heroine's character undergoes drastic change when she loses her memory (even though the book itself admits that amnesia does not bring on personality change) which is never satisfactorily explained.  The plot is not only predictable, it is too incredible to work for me.  Sure, romance is never realistic (by definition; life is not romantic) - but good romantic writing should bear at least a passing resemblance to reality.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R1Y75EQA7RFG7N	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	1	17	27	N	N	This didn't work for me ...	I am no stranger to historical fiction or mystery fiction, and I know this is controversial opinion, but this book just didn't do it for me.  The different narrative voices sounded all the same to me.  I found the pace ponderous, the style heavy and self-important, the welding of historical fact and fiction too deliberate, and the plot incredible.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R2UYFZ2FTFCXV9	0812575725	553767846	Deep Secret	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Deeply Satisfying	This book got to me at a deeper level than most books do.  It has all the ingredients of a good book:  a tight, strong plot, characters which are entirely believable, being both flawed and admirable, and a deft mix of fantasy and reality (her portrayal of a fantasy convention being, I'm reliably informed, utterly realistic).  But in addition it has that something extra which speaks to the soul - I think it is the sense of deep longing, and of journey and destiny.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R3BZDPW5QD9QZX	1864501731	688454065	In Xanadu: A Quest	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Wonderful Journey	Praise has been heaped upon this book, and deservedly so.  As a first book by a young author it is an astounding achievement.  It is captivating, well-informed, witty and warm.  He moves skillfully from historical accounts to present-day portrayals of people and places, from anecdotes to lessons in art history.  Almost anyone can travel, even to remote and dangerous places, and many can write about it, but few can match William Dalrymple in giving an evocative and intelligent account and in taking the reader on a wonderful journey.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R3KWGNI7PTQD6H	0373201664	299635767	Now Or Never (By Request 3's)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	eminently readable fluff	The romantic genre poses real challenges to the worthy author.  When every romantic idea has been flogged to death by the surfeit of romantic fiction, how can an author who aspires to rise above the mass of mediocre writing please the discerning reader while staying within the strict constraints of the genre?  Anne Stuart shows how with Rafe's Revenge :  strong and believable characters engage in a sharp battle of wit and will from the first page to the last, and no glaring holes in the plot mar the reading pleasure.  This short book has it all, the dark powerful man, the vulnerable but clever heroine, the satisfyingly romantic encounters, the sexual tension and the ubiquitous happy ending.  As the protagonists reveal their true characters through the ordeal of conflict, I feel I am getting to know them well, and it is entirely believable to me that their mutual antagonism grows from resentment to grudging admiration and mutual esteem, and finally, you-know-what.  Ms Stuart scores with this one.<br />Unfortunately, the second offering, Hand In Glove, shows how even a master of the genre can miss the mark.  I get no good feel as to what it is about the man and woman which attracts them to each other, apart from brute physical attraction.  The plot has holes you could drive a horse and carriage through - a factory-full of curious employees don't realise where their charismatic boss really lives; and in a night of intimacy spent (part of the time) in conversation she fails to tell him about the recent attempt on her life?  Too much rests on the tightening sense of peril, and since I spotted the (albeit unbelievable) villain miles away, this just didn't work for me.<br />I would consider Partners in Crime a near miss.  There is some character development, and some rather satisfying romantic situations.  But somehow this offering fails to convince me.  Nonetheless, a pleasurable read.  And I'll say this for all three books; Ms Stuart is right at the top of her league.  If you must indulge in romantic fiction, you could do a lot worse then reading her offerings.  Her writing is competent, full of fun and wit, and she doesn't stretch her readers' credulity too much.  All this in the course pushing the right romantic buttons.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R3TJD9YS0OHPWZ	0425108538	628057309	Prince of Darkness	Books	4	23	29	N	N	A fun read (just ignore the cheesy title)	I'm not too familiar with the gothic romance genre, which is pretty much looked down upon by snooty readers, but if they are all written like Barbara Michaels I'm all for them.  This book worked for me.  It is witty, well-paced, has a clever plot, and most importantly, is believable notwithstanding its batty premise of a modern-day witches' coven deep in Upper Middle-Class America.  A reader looking for &quot;horror&quot; is bound to be disappointed, because Ms Michaels is not out to terrorise her readers or scare them silly.  Which is fine with me, because I prefer stories which are moved by real human agents who face up to challenges and grasp their destinies, rather than tales popoulated by terrified pawns of the supernatural.  An easy and thoroughly enjoyable read.  Not too much stress on the little grey cells, but neither are we required to suspend our disbelief.	2001-01-25
US	51261349	R1LQUGVLBMSBPW	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You'd think he's Chinese!	What can I add to the heaps of praise already deservedly lavished on this book?  As a person of Chinese origin (albeit thoroughly Westernised) I can say that Mr Hughart has got the Chinese character so right you'd think he were Chinese.  The Chinese virtues of love for family, honour, stoicism, respect for elders and admiration for learning are all there.  And so are less admirable qualities such as verbosity and hyprocrasy, and the vices of greed (both gastronomical and monetary) and corruption.  All portrayed in a affectionate manner which is inoffensive and rather endearing, and doesn't jar with anyone who knows the Chinese character.	2001-01-25
