US	51273949	R12TU0XSFOE4K5	0976698706	71219190	You Are The Healer: Discover Your Miraculous Potential to Heal Yourself & Others	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Everything You Need to Know to Be a Healer in One Marvelous Book	YOU ARE THE HEALER is a wonderful introduction to the art of energy healing. Author Gene Krackehl writes with warmth and clarity in such down-to-Earth language that anyone can quickly feel a sense of confidence that they can learn the art of healing. Krackehl shares methods for healing a broken heart, clearing out negative energy, dealing with energy vampire attacks, balancing chakras, raising energy, and more. While YOU ARE THE HEALER is the ideal book for anyone planning to become a healer, it's also perfect for those who wish simply to heal themselves. The selection of meditations alone is well worth the price of the book! YOU ARE THE HEALER is so packed with tried-and-true practical information that you'll need to buy two: one for yourself, and one you can loan to your friends.	2005-10-13
US	51273949	R245MLGQG9I4Q6	1580910262	649842872	Fundamentals of Hawaiian Mysticism	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Practical Handbook for Harnessing the Powers of Huna in Your Life	FUNDAMENTALS OF HAWAIIAN MYSTICISM is an outstanding book that describes practical ways for harnessing the powers of Huna in your life. Charlotte Berney details numerous interesting and useful exercises for manifesting and creating improved balance in your life by working with the basic principles of Huna, the spiritual and mystical teachings and traditions of Hawaii. Berney describes how you can find lost things by communicating with your basic self, and how you can arrange to meet your soul mate by working with your high self. She shares some essential tips for effective prayer that are bound to be helpful for everyone, and outlines an extraordinarily powerful Hawaiian technique for manifesting called the \\"Ha Rite\\". I love the sections of this book dedicated to releasing all manner of negative energies in order to better live the most fulfilling possible life, and appreciate the inclusion of so many clearly explained techniques and exercises.	2005-09-15
US	51273949	R21NJSQXU81MSO	1594770093	255362171	The Sacred Power of Huna: Spirituality and Shamanism in Hawai‘i	Books	5	27	36	N	N	Discover Life-Enhancing Truths in Ancient Hawaiian Teachings	THE SACRED POWER OF THE HUNA provides a wealth of scientific and anthropological information in a delightfully engaging page-turner of a book. Author Rima Morrell shares her own personal experiences with the ways of Hawaiian kahuna along with her translations of ancient Hawaiian chants, and shares some of the key similarities and differences between beliefs and practices of Hawaiian kahunas and those of other ancient indigenous peoples, such as the Hopi. Morrell explains how so much ancient Hawaiian knowledge was kept secret for so long, as she brings us on her journey of discovery. Morrell's juicy style of writing breathes fresh life into such fascinating topics as fire walking, the death prayer, Hawaiian lunar astrology, and shamanic power of the erotic Hawaiian hula dance. Most importantly, Morrell describes the practical process by which we can each create our reality by being aware of our high, middle and low selves. I highly recommend this wonderful book to anyone interested in Hawaii, shamanism, and spiritual growth!	2005-09-15
US	51273949	R33GFW7GSTRL0B	0972611207	878715729	What if You Can Change the World?	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A True Guiding Light	WHAT IF YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD is a book of questions and quotations which are designed to help us suspend critical judgment long enough to open our minds to all possibility. With 200 pages of questions and quotes and 75 pages of references, WHAT IF YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD is a masterpiece of raw, transformational power. The careful placement of each pair of questions and quotations on their own set of facing pages allows us to either slowly savor each concept, or zip through the whole book in a few mind-boggling minutes.<br /><br />WHAT IF YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD is the perfect source book for starting daily meditations, as each gentle question introduces concepts that challenge consensus reality as they illuminate even the darkest parts of ourselves. This is also an excellent book for summarizing some of the best gems from the collective wisdom of centuries of spiritual wisdom and positive thinking. I love the way this book contains many of my old favorite quotations, such as Marcel Proust's, \\"The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new lands but seeing with new eyes,\\" as well as introduces me to many new favorites.<br /><br />I recommend WHAT IF YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD to spiritual seekers and leaders everywhere, for this book is truly a guiding light!	2005-08-14
US	51273949	RQYDXLSYT9CN	0962618446	346157877	Technicians of Ecstasy: Shamanism and the Modern Artist	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Seeing the World through Artist and Shaman Eyes	TECHNICIANS OF ECSTASY takes the reader on a scintillating, scholarly tour through the work of several artists. While not all artists see the world as shaman do, there are some artists who see, dream, and perform in much the same way as the shaman. Some of the 27 artists included in TECHNICIANS OF ECSTASY are: Vincent Van Gogh, Paul Cezanne, Alex Grey, Henri Rousseau, Salvador Dali, Man Ray, Ann McCoy, and Jonathan Borofsky.<br /><br />What makes this book so fabulous is the way it demonstrates ways that spiritual meaning and wisdom is at the heart of much of the world's best art. The world's best artists know how to break out of habitual modes of looking, and in sharing their visions, empower all who view their art by helping people open their eyes to new ways of seeing. Author Mark Levy explains, \\"In shifting attention from common sense or 'consensus reality,' artists as shamans succeed in expanding their consciousness and the consciousness of their communities and offer blueprints for spiritual development.\\" I particularly loved the shamanic techniques mentioned to stimulate creativity, as these exercises indeed are part of the core of all shamanic training: isolation, not-doing, prolonged looking, the strong eye, and setting up dreaming.<br /><br />TECHNICIANS OF ECSTASY is essential reading for everyone who is excited by meaningful art, as well as for anyone wishing to better understand how to see the world through the artist's and the shaman's eyes. I give this book my highest recommendation!	2005-08-14
US	51273949	R2551F9S35PB2W	0060766867	484288134	What is Your Life's Work?: Answer the BIG Question About What Really Matters...and Reawaken the Passion for What You Do	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Soulful Letters of Balancing Work & Life	If you've ever wished you had a parent or mentor who would have shared with you what it is that matters most in life, because you've noticed that people who get such mentoring seem to have some kind of natural edge in the world... you're in luck. Bill Jensen's book WHAT IS YOUR LIFE'S WORK contains some of the most powerfully moving written exchanges between people that you are likely ever to find, and these gems of real life stories will set you on fire with their honesty and love. Every counselor, life coach, parent and child can benefit from reading WHAT IS YOUR LIFE'S WORK, as some of the most important life lessons are touched upon in deeply personal ways.<br /><br />In an age when it's been said that the art of letter writing is dead, this book dares to raise the subject of we can best find a balance between work and the rest of our life. The intense passion conveyed in most of the letters helps bring this subject to life in a way that is sure to help anyone rekindle their own inner fire, and regain a sense of what it is we're all working for that really matters.	2005-07-10
US	51273949	R3SKOMFNR2PJKI	1594770603	720403800	The Slow Down Diet: Eating for Pleasure, Energy, and Weight Loss	Books	5	102	105	N	N	How to Lose Weight through Increased Awareness	Nutritionist and weight loss expert Marc David asserts in THE SLOW DOWN DIET that some of our most dearly held beliefs about weight loss and dieting are woefully misguided. According to David, some of the biggest myths about eating are well-intentioned, yet contribute to ever-increasing girth. Starting with one of the most widely believed myths, \\"the best way to lose weight is to eat less and exercise more,\\" David describes how people who attempt to follow that old advice so often end up frustrated. As David points out, \\"What you eat is only half the equation of good nutrition. How you eat is the other half.\\"<br /><br />David describes the eight universal metabolizers that have the biggest effect on whether we gain or lose weight: relaxation, quality, awareness, rhythm, pleasure, thought, story, the sacred. We don't overeat because we lack willpower or put our metabolism into starvation mode, but when meals are deficient in one of the eight universal metabolizers. Food eaten in an anxious rush will trigger physiological stress responses that decrease our calorie burning capacity at the same time as we lose the value of the nutrients.<br /><br />At a time when the benefits of meditation are being formally acknowledged, it's refreshing to see a book that cites scientific sources that describe a metabolic power of relaxation. I love the way Marc David includes scientific research studies alongside case histories and exercises. Did you know that your gut has a brain? The enteric nervous system in your body has more nerve cells than your spinal column, at over one hundred million neurons, and it moves through nightly 90 minute cycles as if it were dreaming. Marc David asserts that the amazing differences between French and American food habits and weights are that while the French eat generally fattier foods, they slow down and savor long lunches as the biggest meals of their days... while Americans eat on the run in a constant state of stress.<br /><br />THE SLOW DOWN DIET proposes something that seems almost too good to be true... a way to savor meals and consistently lose weight doing so. By simply being \\"awake at the plate\\" and not doing something distracting or stressful while eating, but instead enjoying every moment of your meals... David assures us that we can lose weight.LOW DOWN DIET proposes something that seems almost too good to be true... a way to savor meals and consistently lose weight doing so. By simply being \\"awake at the plate\\" and not doing something distracting or stressful while eating, but instead enjoying every moment of your meals... David assures us that we can lose weight.	2005-06-02
US	51273949	R3KP8QO43NX04	0443068003	783509498	Consciousness and Healing: Integral Approaches to Mind-Body  Medicine, 1e	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Raising Awareness of the Nature of Healing	CONSCIOUSNESS & HEALING is a remarkable collection of papers, articles and personal accounts of the current state of healing in the United States of America today. Sixty seven leading experts on health and healing share their most intimate, heartfelt, and analytical assessments of exactly what's going on in the field of mind-body medicine. Included inside this book is a companion DVD that features interviews with health professionals who share their vision for where the field of healing is headed.<br /><br />CONSCIOUSNESS & HEALING is the brain and love child of the Institute of Noetic Sciences (IONS), whose goal is to explore the frontiers of human consciousness. While the breadth and depth of this book defies description, it's safe to say that CONSCIOUSNESS & HEALING is currently the most comprehensive and up-to-date reference book on the subjects of complementary and alternative medicine, integral medicine, and mind-body medicine.<br /><br />Some of my favorite ideas from this book are the notion of what it really means to grow old gracefully, the return of prayer, and the idea of the patient as being inextricably intertwined in society and the environment. Now that increasing numbers of patients seek complementary and alternative forms of healing to the more traditional chemical and surgical procedures, there is a need for the healing community to establish a better vision of how to treat patients as people who matter, and whose thoughts and feelings affect their health.<br /><br />CONSCIOUSNESS & HEALING is a marvelous reference book that will stimulate discussion between healing professionals and people seeking healing, and help us all figure out what new model of health care we can best create.	2005-06-02
US	51273949	R23C2VQSJXOQKT	0312329199	879823839	The Gift: ESP, the Extraordinary Experiences of Ordinary People	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Exhilarating Overview of Decades of ESP Research	THE GIFT is an outstanding compendium of decades of essential research into ESP that is destined to be a classic reference book for years to come. Author Dr. Sally Rhine Feather shares the findings of the Duke Parapsychology Laboratory and the Rhine Research Center since the early 1930s in a friendly manner that invites readers to take a look at some of the startling intuitive insights of hundreds of ordinary individuals. THE GIFT devotes an entire chapter to sharing stories of ESP between mothers and their children, another to the ESP of children, another to ESP in romance, another for messages from the dead, and several to ESP related to premonitions of various disasters. THE GIFT is filled with fascinating findings, such as the conclusion that we tend to have ESP experiences most often with people who share close personal emotional ties -- such as parents, children, siblings, spouses and friends. 57% of people who shared stories of such experiences noted that they received intuitive insights such as precognitive flashes of something about to happen in the form of dreams, while 30% noted sudden intuitive impressions while they were awake, and 13% experienced visions so real that they seemed to actually be happening.<br /><br />I was intrigued to learn that 30% of all psychic messages from loved ones involve death, 40% involve news of accidents... so that a full 70% of ESP messages about others are tuned in to potential negative disruptions in the lives of those we care about.  The authors assert, \\"When any two members of a family are emotionally close, the death of one can generate psychic shock wave capable of immediately reaching the other.\\" Potentially lethal situations also seem capable of reaching loved ones very quickly. It's interesting to note that the majority of ESP messages people receive about themselves involve precognitive warnings of accidents and injuries as well.<br /><br />THE GIFT raises the excellent question, \\"Is fate inevitable?\\" There are those who argue that if you can make a successful intervention and change the future, then by definition, no precognition took place. Others assert that we see possible and probable futures, so it is possible to see one future and actually experience something else. There is no scientific test yet developed to determine whether a future envisioned and then averted is one that might have ever come to be real... yet people receiving strong impressions of danger appear to be able to change the future.<br /><br />People made changes to avert disaster in 162 of 433 cases reported to the Rhine Research Center over the past sixty years. Since ESP comes to us in the same form and manner as our ordinary mental processes, it can be difficult to distinguish between meaningful messages and \\"noise.\\" Nevertheless, of the 162 individuals who sensed potential danger, nearly two thirds of them succeeded by recognizing the significance of their psychic impressions and acting quickly and effectively, even when some aspects of their vision were not entirely accurate and people around them did not fully cooperate.<br /><br />THE GIFT is a book that will give you an exhilarating sense of how it feels to receive ESP impressions, and a sense of the breadth and depth of the ESP experience.re those who argue that if you can make a successful intervention and change the future, then by definition, no precognition took place. Others assert that we see possible and probable futures, so it is possible to see one future and actually experience something else. There is no scientific test yet developed to determine whether a future envisioned and then averted is one that might have ever come to be real... yet people receiving strong impressions of danger appear to be able to change the future. <br /> <br />People made changes to avert disaster in 162 of 433 cases reported to the Rhine Research Center over the past sixty years. Since ESP comes to us in the same form and manner as our ordinary mental processes, it can be difficult to distinguish between meaningful messages and \\"noise.\\" Nevertheless, of the 162 individuals who sensed potential danger, nearly two thirds of them succeeded by recognizing the significance of their psychic impressions and acting quickly and effectively, even when some aspects of their vision were not entirely accurate and people around them did not fully cooperate. <br /> <br />THE GIFT is a book that will give you an exhilarating sense of how it feels to receive ESP impressions, and a sense of the breadth and depth of the ESP experience.	2005-05-10
US	51273949	R9QNS22R2M6YQ	0876044925	924934692	We Live Forever: The Real Truth About Death	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Essential Reading for Seekers & Caregivers	PMH Atwater brings the subject of death to life with words both poetic and real in WE LIVE FOREVER. Sharing the most intimate details of her own near death experiences, Atwater invites us to open our minds to a deeper understanding of who we really are and how we are all interconnected through life and death. I love the way Atwater describes how everything in the universe breathes, and how we can be at one with each other and God when we breathe together.<br /><br />WE LIVE FOREVER includes essential information on assisting those who are dying to make the smoothest possible transition in easy-to-follow steps. This book contains numerous fascinating facts and stories that explain how we know when we are going to die, how we can see and feel peoples' prayers for us when we've died, and how many different types of experiences are available to us when we die.<br /><br />WE LIVE FOREVER is essential reading for anyone seeking answers to what awaits us when we leave our physical bodies behind, as well as for anyone caring for someone who is about to die.	2005-04-09
US	51273949	R1AIIEDHT06NF0	1590030842	273334773	A Hidden Order: Uncover Your Life's Design	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Discover the Joy of Your Authentic Self	A HIDDEN ORDER helps you find your core essence, while discovering the path of least resistance and maximum joy in your life. Author Winter Robinson provides exercises and shares fascinating real-life stories to help us better understand how beautifully all the aspects of our lives come together when we practice listening to intuition and reading the more subtle road signs in life. The hidden order Robinson describes \\"is rapidly making itself known, suggesting to every one of us that there is spiritual evolution going on; that we have the potential to rid the world of fear, confusion, chaos, and greed and bring humankind into harmony with nature and the cosmos.\\" Much of the confusion in the world can be cleared when we take time to meditate, feel the energies all around us, and discern the difference between what we truly need and what we may have thought we wanted.<br /><br />A HIDDEN ORDER is written in two main sections; the first section introduces stories from Robinson's life, basic principles related to the hidden order, ideas about health and love and death, and chapters on manifesting with creative power and experiencing a shared consciousness. The second section contains chapters with master practices for dealing with ego and beliefs, quieting the mind, understanding dreams, and setting intention.<br /><br />What I love best about A HIDDEN ORDER are the stories that Robinson shares from her fascinating life.  I also love the way she includes references to relevant studies and research throughout her book, and the way her book provides a such a wonderful way to discover the joys of seeing and understanding life's hidden order and grand designs!	2005-03-11
US	51273949	R324H4RGK5RXG3	1591134498	969870035	THE STORIES OF OUR LIVES: A story of healing through dreams and intuition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Healing Story of Finding Truth & Inner Power In Dreams	Edward Bonapartian shares his deepest innermost thoughts and feelings in THE STORIES OF OUR LIVES, as he describes his gradual and triumphant healing from the guilt and shame of growing up in an alcoholic family. The premise of this book is that powerful healing can be found in the power of our dreams, because they help us get in touch with feelings and thoughts that otherwise remain buried deep in our subconscious. Bonapartian demonstrates through his own life experiences how dreams can be accessed even while awake, in order to facilitate soul retrieval and regain a long-lost sense of empowerment and joy in living.<br /><br />STORIES OF OUR LIVES is told as a narrative which begins in autobiographical form with the death and burial of Bonapartian's alcoholic mother. This death marked a beginning for Bonapartian, in which he began to experience contact with his mother in his visions and dreams. The conflict between wishing to just move on with life and take time learning from powerfully emotional dreams was one that lead Bonapartian to share his dreams and visions in a dream group, so that he could experience complete healing and the full power and truth of his dreams.<br /><br />STORIES OF OUR LIVES is an inspirational must-read book for all adult children of alcoholics, for it describes one man's success story in confronting and overcoming a lifetime burden of guilt, terror, and grief. Highly recommended!	2005-03-07
US	51273949	R3PPE2LCITWTDD	0671742515	238243512	The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hugely Entertaining & Refreshingly Funny	THE LONG, DARK TEA TIME is a surprisingly different detective novel in which the hero, Dirk Gently, suffers from a number of humorous personality quirks. Dirk refuses to open his refrigerator, follows cars that seem to know when they're going when he's lost, and prefers to consider impossible scenarios over highly improbable ones. He also has a penchant for taking things that aren't his... although no matter how badly things seem to be going for him, he always seems to manage to end up in the right place at the right time. And perhaps this is the greatest lesson that Dirk Gently has to share.<br /><br />I laughed out loud so often while reading LONG DARK TEA TIME that I cried, and found myself reading and re-reading passages to savor them again and again. Douglas Adams is truly a master story teller, even when dealing with a plot that ping-pongs back and forth between two main character who are coping with extremely unusual (and dare I say impossible) situations. Keeping track of the plot was challenging at times, but well worth the effort.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book, and now plan to make sure I read everything Adams has written!	2005-03-07
US	51273949	R2ORJBPBI7BMPT	0007128231	384045324	Universe Cards: Personal Predictions Taking You on a Voyage of Discovery to Unlock the Mysteries of the Universe	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Fabulous Images & Concepts Create Amazing Intuitive Readings	When I saw the box for this divination deck of universe cards, I must confess I had some doubts about the notion of combining scientific space photographs with a system for gleaning intuitive truth. Obviously, one can gain insight from anything, but I was concerned that perhaps the creator of this deck might lean too far toward the science to provide meaningful readings.<br /><br />From the first moment I saw the actual cards and companion book for the UNIVERSE CARDS, I realized that this is an extraordinary deck. Not only are the pictures on the cards big and beautiful, but they come with vivid descriptions which are perfectly suited to conveying the sense of the core idea for each card. After seeing the deck used to do readings for several different people, I saw how on target these cards can be, and how wonderfully they can capture a wide variety of feelings and moods.<br /><br />I highly recommend UNIVERSE CARDS to anyone who loves astronomy and everyone who is interested in combining science and intuition.	2005-03-07
US	51273949	R165NSPCQ2SND6	1413723071	663162256	Soul Bared: A Metaphysical Journey	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Experience the Agony & Ecstasy of a Near Death Experience	SOUL BARED tells the heart-wrenching tale of one man's near death experience in 1979. Author David Oakford set his pride aside to describe every aspect of his experience, including the not-so-flattering descriptions of how he came so close to death through a drug overdose. As each gland and organ in his body shut down, one by one, he could hear and see how it's song and rhythm stilled to silence... until all that remained was an eerie silence. Oakford's attention next turned to his immediate surroundings, and how he was confused to find that although he could move about, running was difficult... and although he could see and hear things, he could not see his reflection in a mirror and nobody seemed to hear him even when he shrieked and cried.<br /><br />SOUL BARED really takes off when Oakford meets his guardian angel, who he calls Bob. Bob helped to explain the meaning of the colored auras that Oakford saw around everyone and everything, describing how each person's aura is useful in viewing to see how much and what kind of work needs to be done for that person's best development. The more brilliant the color, the higher the vibration. Bob went on to describe elemental energy beings, dark souls, the spirit of Gaia and beings of higher vibration, as Oakford looked around at the world through new eyes. The chapters in which Oakford describes meeting a group of angelic spirits are extraordinary for their clarity, as Oakford describes the choice he was given before returning to his body and resuming his life.<br /><br />I am deeply moved by SOUL BARED, as it inspires me to live up my true spiritual nature and original purpose on Gaia at this time. Readers who have had near death experiences will especially love this book, as it's the next best thing to feeling all the agony and ecstasy of a near death experience. I give this book my highest recommendation.	2005-03-06
US	51273949	RI7V5UTTLWO7	1582701148	708651576	The Hidden Messages in Water	Books	5	14	22	N	Y	Dramatic Photos of Effects of Thoughts on Water	THE HIDDEN MESSAGES IN WATER is packed with photographs of water droplets which have been frozen for two hours and magnified 200 to 500 times. These large, glossy photos look something like snowflakes, where no two images are identical -- yet certain patterns become immediately apparent.<br /><br />Japanese researcher Masaru Emoto describes in this book how his original quest to depict the natural beauty of water led him to discover that clean, pure water from natural unpolluted sources looks much more brilliant in color and more symmetrical in shape than chemically treated or polluted water. This assertion is made abundantly clear when one views the various images in this book and sees for oneself how chemically treated water crystals appear dark and misshapen while clean water appears bright and jewel- like. Emoto could have stopped his research there and still had an amazing book, but he continued his ground-breaking research to experiment with treating water with a variety of phrases, music, and prayer -- showing how our words, thoughts, and feelings have a visceral effect on water.<br /><br />This extraordinary book is a must for anyone who wishes to see for themselves what effect pollution and stressful thoughts and feelings are having on Earth's water -- and how we can change these effects with meditation, prayer, healing words, and music. Since most of our bodies and most of the surface of the Earth is made of water, THE HIDDEN MESSAGES IN WATER has tremendous significance for us all.	2005-03-01
US	51273949	R3OD4AXRJ3ALAR	096416163X	264240892	Touch and Go the Nature of Intimacy: Relating in the Coming Times	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Breath of Fresh Air for Relationships!	Judy Borich's book TOUCH AND GO is like a breath of fresh air in the field of interpersonal psychology. I especially love the way energetic fields are described as being the essential basis for understanding interpersonal relationship dynamics. TOUCH AND GO makes it clear how each person has a boundary around their individual energy field, and how there is a boundary around the couple who are in a close relationship... and last but certainly not least there is a boundary in between the two people who are in the relationship. This boundary concept is elegant in its simplicity, and profound in its implications for interpersonal relationship dynamics.<br /><br />When one comprehends these three basic types of boundaries, it becomes clear that one can only speak for oneself, even if one feels strongly that one's partner should agree. When each person feels secure both in their individuality and freedom to disagree, as well as feeling secure in the relationship... something magnificent becomes possible. Such relationships are capable of bringing out the very best in people. TOUCH AND GO provides exercises and descriptions of how to set boundaries, respect one another's boundaries, resolve conflicts, and meet our relationship needs.<br /><br />TOUCH AND GO is an essential book for anyone interested in attaining the best possible relationship with another, who is willing to be the best they can be in order to help their relationship be the best it can be.<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2005-01-29
US	51273949	R1UXWSCKCB7TQD	1880732130	444345655	Embracing Your Subconscious: Bringing All Parts of You into Creative Partnership	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fun & Effective Techniques to Pull Your Life Together	Have you ever felt like you were struggling with life, and that no matter how hard you try, things just weren't going your way? What would you have given at those times for a way to resolve those problems from the inside out?<br /><br />When we face challenges in life, most of us work on problems using our heads... pretty much ignoring the wisdom of our hearts, not to mention any mysterious gut feelings. Part of the reason for this oversight has to do with the fact that most of us were never trained in how to access the deepest wisdom of our subconscious minds... those voices of wisdom that speak without words.<br /><br />Jenny Davidow's masterful book, EMBRACING YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS provides you with a road map for navigating the murky depths of your subconscious in ways that are both fun and effective. I especially love the section of the book that describes how you are living a waking dream all the time, and provides tips for helping you notice when something in your waking life is attempting to get your attention through: intense reaction, repetition, or unusual event. Helpful exercises and  meditations are provided along with fascinating real life examples of improved subconscious communication.<br /><br />If you're ready to pull your life together using some wonderfully fun and effective techniques, EMBRACING YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS will thrill, surprise and delight you every step of the way!<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2005-01-29
US	51273949	R171DNIJINCSN4	1594533253	155487914	ET-Beings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing Alien Encounters	John Zarr's book, ET-BEINGS is written in the form of a fictional account of one man's life-long involvement with extra-terrestrials. This story tells a hair-raising tale of human-ET relations, from the vantage point of a man who has been visited by ETs since boyhood. What makes this story such a rare treat is the sense one gets while reading it that it just might be completely true! From the realistic descriptions of what was happening in ordinary daily life, to detailed accounts of other-worldly mechanical devices and beings, the story builds a seamless tale of how it feels to be in close, regular communication with extra-terrestrials.<br /><br />I love the illustrations included in ET-BEINGS that give the reader a much better idea of how the beings and their spacecraft appear and operate... and I love the way our protaganist shares his thoughts and feelings as he experiences being levitated through the air into a waiting space craft, or as he experiments with a new (and rather dangerous) invention based on some of the alien technologies he has encountered.<br /><br />ET-BEINGS is a book that I devoured quickly in a couple of sittings, and then reflected back on for days and weeks afterwards. There is just enough amazing information in ET-BEINGS to give one goose bumps, and just enough emotional context to make one begin to start looking up to the sky... wondering if perhaps... just perhaps... there are ET beings looking right back down.<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2005-01-29
US	51273949	R3SN7TJV7JOMF9	0829420401	542566819	In the Arms of Angels: True Stories of Heavenly Guardians	Books	5	86	91	N	N	Uplifting Angel Stories	At a time when more than 75% of all Americans publicly admit a belief in angels, IN THE ARMS OF ANGELS whets our appetite for angel information as it delivers a feast of wonderful stories about amazing and mysterious angel encounters. From tales of very young children saved from death by watchful guardians to stories about helpful men and women who have warned, protected and reassured those in need... these stories will make you want to laugh, cry, and get goose bumps of amazement. IN THE ARMS OF ANGELS is a perfect book to read at bed time every night, to remind us that we are never alone, and that there is always help at hand when we most need it. I give this book my very highest recommendation!<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2005-01-14
US	51273949	R1H2DY327YIKRH	0971078653	444070541	Being One: Finding Our Self in Relationship	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Envisioning Transcendental Relationships	BEING ONE is a book for contemplative people who seek to experience transcendental relationships, and are willing and able to do the work necessary to get there by being honest, compassionate, and detached. Steven Harrison explains that there are serious problems with the three main phases of most romantic relationships (infatuation/falling in love, power struggles, dynamic boredom); all three of these phases of love are built on a foundation of an addiction to separation. This separation is imagined, not real. Only love is real... and each and every one of us can experience the joy of being in love... of being free from attacking and defending... of knowing that we are all as one... and of being one. Everyone can benefit from reading BEING ONE and imagining a world in which all the people can live their lives as one. I give this book my highest recommendation.<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2005-01-14
US	51273949	R3PCHJ2XXHKE6B	1571743596	685097596	Dreaming While Awake: Techniques for 24-Hour Lucid Dreaming	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Learn How to Live Large	Dreaming While Awake is one of the best books I've yet read on the subject of recognizing one's fullest spiritual identity. Author Arnold Mindell explains how playing with nonconsensus and consensus reality can help one attain a sense of lucid living... of recognizing the \\"Big You.\\" Mindell describes how the Big You creates the world and sees through the illusory nature of consensus reality, to rise above the petty (yet often infuriatingly stressful) situations we find ourselves in. When you are not lucid, the universe can seem inexplicable. When you are lucid, you understand that you can stay present in the cloudedness of your ordinary senses, sensing information around you with highly tuned intuition. In a state of Big You lucidity, even your opponents are understood to be another part of the Big You... and you can find your way to better outcomes than you have ever imagined.<br /><br />I love the way Dreaming While Awake takes the reader on an odyssey of exploring the furthest reaches of consciousness, to discover how reality itself can be a magical symbol that flirts with our awareness. I also love the way Mindell includes real-life examples of how he has felt when he became aware of his own \\"Big You\\" and dealt with difficult situations from that elevated state of mind. Dreaming While Awake is a classic book on the subject of consciousness and reality that is destined to be read and re-read and cherished forever.	2004-12-10
US	51273949	R3C4LFW2H20E1	0740742019	271008673	Real Prosperity: Using the Power of Intuition to Create Financial and Spiritual Abundance	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Discover the Secrets to Living a Rich Life	Why is it that some people enjoy lives of luxury, abundance and success, while others struggle to make ends meet? Intuitive consultant Lynn Robinson answers this question as she illuminates the keys to real prosperity, and how to enjoy a life overflowing with more than enough of what you need and want. Robinson shares tips that have helped her thousands of clients realize their dreams over the years, and describes people who are successful, happy and prosperous as, \\"It's as if prosperity and success seek them out. They magnetize what they want to create through the power of their mind and emotion.\\"<br /><br />REAL PROSPERITY helps you listen to your prosperity intuition to discover a personalized roadmap to achieving your goals. REAL PROSPERITY is full of excercises, quotations, and stories that describe a spiritual path to abundance. One of my favorite parts of the book is where Robinson points out that often it's often the bleakest times in our lives that turn out to be launch pads for new opportunities and success. This pattern becomes obvious when successful people look back at their lives... and see how they made the biggest turnarounds in the midst of major life changes.<br /><br />REAL PROSPERITY is written in the very energy of prosperity it describes, so the very act of reading it immediately boosts one's prosperity consciousness. I give this book my highest recommendation!	2004-12-09
US	51273949	RQW6I5ZZBFV67	0740738429	331766263	Signature for Success: How to Analyze Handwriting and Improve Your Career, Your Relationships, and Your  Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Discover the Joy & Excitement of Handwriting Analysis	SIGNATURE FOR SUCCESS conveys a whole new level of passion and excitement for handwriting analysis by showing samples from famous people in the most interesting ways. For example, samples of celebrity handwriting are included in sections where  readers are asked to choose which person they'd select for job applicants, friends, and lovers... and are then let in on the secret about which famous people those handwriting samples really belong to. Arlyn also shares some real-life samples of handwriting she's received, along with her answers to readers' questions based on her analysis of each handwriting sample.<br /><br />A wide variety of personality traits are described and displayed that show up in handwriting, including qualities like: introvert/extrovert, honesty/dishonesty, patience/impatience, easy-going/angry. Once you've learned the basics about how to spot warning signs in handwriting, it's amazingly simple to find out a great deal of information.<br /><br />SIGNATURE FOR SUCCESS is an inspirational gem that is fun to read on many levels: pure entertainment, thought-provoking insights, and self-improvement. I give this book my highest recommendation!	2004-10-31
US	51273949	R3H3ERM55DGCF2	1582701040	671953394	The Power of Appreciation: The Key to a Vibrant Life	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Create a Better Life with Appreciation	One of the biggest stumbling blocks when we set out to make our dreams come true is appreciating what is going well. Most of us have an unfortunate tendency to dwell on problems rather than the good things in our lives... and then we wonder why things just seem to keep getting worse instead of better.<br /><br />Therapists Noelle Nelson and Jeannine LeMare Calaba explain how you can achieve success in every area of your life through transforming your beliefs in THE POWER OF APPRECIATION. Whereas criticism, contempt, defensiveness and stonewalling work to destroy relationships, appreciation can help people feel like they're living in heaven on earth. Nelson and Calaba outline a practical five-step process to make your dreams come true that has proven effective for them with their clients. They also include scientific research and descriptions of individual case histories to help bring their ideas to life, so you can better understand how to harness the power of appreciation in your life. The five steps are: choosing what you desire, determining the feelings behind your desire, weeding out conflicting thoughts and beliefs, launching your vibration of appreciation, and working your appreciation.<br /><br />THE POWER OF APPRECIATION really hits its stride when it examines how appreciation can transform the relationships in our lives. Every relationship at work, at home, and with friends can prosper when one applies its five-step process for developing an appreciative mindset. I highly recommend this book for anyone genuinely interested in creating a better life!	2004-10-07
US	51273949	R109JPXLPWXM3Z	0972395458	326597128	Going Deeper: How to Make Sense of Your Life When Your Life Makes No Sense	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Playful, Yet Profound Exploration of All That Is	Jean-Claude Koven's delightful book, GOING DEEPER takes the reader on a spiritual journey with a Los Angeles lawyer (Larry) and his dog (Zeus) to Joshua Tree National Park. Larry's journey truly begins when he is startled to hear his dog talking to him... helping him awaken to a much deeper understanding of his life, the universe, and everything. The main premise of GOING DEEPER is that there are millions of \\"Wanderers,\\" advanced souls from distant dimensions, who feel like they are not quite of this world, but need help remembering what they are doing here on Earth at this time.<br /><br />Through discussions with Zeus and several other wise yet irreverent teachers (such as a raccoon, a juniper tree, and stones) Larry explores such diverse topics as consciousness, chakras, finding one's life purpose, and communicating with one's High Self and the Akashic records. GOING DEEPER balances its serious subject matter with zany humor, as it does an outstanding job of combining spiritual concepts from a variety of esoteric teachings into a cohesive whole.<br /><br />My favorite part of GOING DEEPER was the description of the secret to fully awakening through increasing awareness via focused questioning. Many such tools and meditations are provided through GOING DEEPER, which reads like a spiritual self-help book disguised as a novel. I was pleased to find fascinating ideas liberally sprinkled throughout the story, so I'd find myself feeling the happy glow of these shining ideas for days afterward.<br /><br />Spiritual seekers will find pearls of wisdom and belly laughs galore in this playful yet profound exploration of all that is.	2004-10-06
US	51273949	R2I6IX3HYXK29J	083560828X	695920943	The Yoga of Time Travel: How the Mind Can Defeat Time	Books	5	216	225	N	N	The Best Time Travel Book Ever!	You can't find a more fascinating and delightful book about the nature of time and reality than Fred Alan Wolf's YOGA OF TIME TRAVEL! Chapter One alone is more than worth the price of the book, as it describes how a yoga adept can overcome the five barriers to reaching the state of egoless mind... which is what Wolf explains one needs to do in order to travel through time without a time travel device. THE YOGA OF TIME TRAVEL shares a compelling vision of the nature of time travel by combining essential elements from yoga and physics with extraordinary clarity. Wolf provides readers with the perfect blend of warmth, wit, and scientific detail for readers to grasp such physical concepts as possibility waves, probability waves and qubits. THE YOGA OF TIME TRAVEL is so provocative that you'll want to read it more than once to comprehend the wonderful world of time travel!<br /><br />I was delighted to see how Wolf explains how the so-called time travel paradoxes such as the \\"creativity paradox\\" and the \\"grandfather paradox\\" can be completely resolved when considered in the context of parallel universes. Wolf explains how time travel is no longer relegated to science fiction, but is instead required by current models of the physical world, which moves the burden of proof from defending the possibility of time travel to proving there is any kind of law forbidding it.<br /><br />THE YOGA OF TIME TRAVEL is surely destined to become a classic, as it covers a topic that has never before been addressed with such insight and elegance. I give this book my highest recommendation!	2004-09-28
US	51273949	R8K4KKJYELPD2	1412004594	40457308	Sing for Joy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Spiritual Romance Story	SING FOR JOY is the heartfelt tale of a woman who breaks up with her alcoholic boyfriend and travels to spend a couple of weeks in Florence, Italy, to rediscover herself and figure out why she keeps getting into empty romantic relationships. Lauren doesn't speak much Italian, but is fortunate to meet some very special people in Florence who help her understand how she can fill the emptiness she's had inside for so long.<br /><br />SING FOR JOY transported me to Florence so well that I almost felt I was there, while it opened my heart to feel the warm glow of true love. This book is a real treasure that uplifts the spirit as it reveals deep truths of the human heart. I highly recommend SING FOR JOY to anyone who'd like to vicariously travel to Italy, or would like to know how to stop feeling lonely and start feeling loved.	2004-09-19
US	51273949	R18VCA39B5WE04	0972445501	716123601	2012 Sarah and Alexander: The Alchemy of Time	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Romantic & Thrilling Adventure Through Time	Ellie Crystal's SARAH & ALEXANDER brings the reader directly into a universe in which one woman's ancient family secret becomes critical to saving the world from the clutches of evil. Sarah Manning grew up with a keen awareness that her family is quite a bit different from most, yet when she becomes a young woman, she is amazed to discover the full depth of the mystery revolving around her maternal line which traces it's way all the way back to ancient Egypt. As a terrible truth is gradually revealed to Sarah about how a loop in time can provide one of the world's most dangerous men with an opportunity to radically alter the past, present, and future to his own deadly purposes, Sarah realizes that it will be up to her and a few trusted friends to stop him. With a newfound sense of who she is, Sarah races against time and a group of dangerous men to reestablish peace on Earth.<br /><br />SARAH & ALEXANDER is packed with the esoteric and thought-provoking kind of information that fans of Ellie Crystal's crystalinks metaphysical and science web site would hope it to include. Topics ranging from extraterrestrials to psychic phenomena to sacred places provide fascinating tidbits to contemplate, as the action-packed story keeps you on the edge of your seat!	2004-08-05
US	51273949	R177Y2OVDQ0NWC	1879181584	770925504	Vibrational Medicine: The #1 Handbook of Subtle-Energy Therapies	Books	5	56	62	N	N	The Essential Reference Book for Subtle Energy Healing	VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE is a classic reference book for anyone seeking a comprehensive overview of the field of energy medicine. Weighty in both content and physical heft, it manages to be quite the page-turner, by virtue of maintaining effervescent enthusiasm for the subject throughout. While some books discuss one or two relatively narrow aspects of energy medicine, VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE covers a vast assortment of energy healing methodologies.<br />What I love most about VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE is the way so many experimental details are included for the scientific studies it cites. It's easy to gain a big picture overview of how scientific research is steadily progressing in the field of subtle energies. I also love the way that VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE strikes an easy balance between sharing ancient esoteric spiritual teachings, newer vibrational therapies, and scientific research. Some of the most recent developments in vibrational medicine, such as homeopathy, flower essences, and sound healing have deep roots in the past, at the same time as they offer us a welcome array of new options on the road to better health. Readers who are intrigued and open-minded to studying all these areas will find this book an absolute must-read.<br />VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE introduces some key concepts early on that weave their way throughout the rest of the book, such as the principle of resonance. Resonance has been associated with telepathy between individuals, and also with bringing about healing for individuals who have energy imbalances. There are profound benefits to be gained from correctly assessing what kind of frequency will bring about optimal healing, and VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE provides all the juicy details!<br />I highly recommend VIBRATIONAL MEDICINE to anyone interested in a more complete understanding of the energies related to optimal health.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;ct Success&quot;	2004-07-19
US	51273949	R29EGLVH7ICTP7	1414044194	411640752	EPICENTER	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Spiritual End of the World Thriller	EPICENTER tells the action-packed story of two men, whose lives intersect as a terrible crisis befalls the world. Seth Archer informs his friends and holistic healing staff in the mountains of Wyoming of dreams he's had about cataclysmic earth changes when he sees television news coverage showing his dreams to be real. Seth begins a journey in which he meets spirit guides, sees auras, and discovers the shocking truth behind what is happening to the world. Meanwhile, across the country in Berkeley, California, Dr. Henry Baxter, head of UC Berkeley's Geology department, makes the horrifying discovery that the Earth's mantle has been cracked by a routine underground nuclear test in India... and that there is absolutely nothing that can be done to prevent the inevitable destruction that is bound to come.<br />As Seth Archer and Dr. Henry Baxter do their best to notify people of the full scale of the impending disasters, they find their messages met with reactions ranging  from disbelief and denial to short-sighted opportunism. Fortunately, some people are willing to listen, and EPICENTER tells their story as they strive to make the best of a very challenging situation.<br />What I like best about EPICENTER is the way this story shares fascinating insights into working with spirit guides and subtle energy fields. I love the way that talking with spirit guides is treated as being perfectly normal, and the way the insights discovered through these spirit conversations is immediately practical and wise. EPICENTER is the perfect book for anyone who loves end-of-the-world thrillers, especially ones containing profound spiritual truth.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2004-07-15
US	51273949	RIF0C8AXJG9HA	0892811366	10578780	Awakening to Animal Voices: A Teen Guide to Telepathic Communication with All Life	Books	5	12	14	N	N	How to Talk to Animals... & Hear Them Talk to You!	AWAKENING TO ANIMAL VOICES is a book for open-minded readers of all ages who are willing to believe it could be possible to communicate with animals, and are ready to find out how to go about it. Author Dawn Brunke shares animal communication stories, exercises, and quotations in an easy-flowing format that makes the material accessible, informative, and fun.<br />I especially love the way that deep animal wisdom is shared from a wide variety of animals including cats, dogs, lions, bumblebees, flies, llamas, ravens, finches, sharks, whales, elephants, cows, buffalo, frogs, donkeys, and hamsters. Photographs of many of the animals add an extra dimension to this lovely book.<br />Once you start talking with animals, you'll gain confidence in what you're hearing in response... and AWAKENING TO ANIMAL VOICES helps tremendously by presenting lots of examples of animal conversations as well as tips and pointers for getting the dialogue going. I've been having conversations with animals for years, and recommend AWAKENING TO ANIMAL VOICES as the perfect guidebook for starting a fabulous conversation with all the animals in your life!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2004-06-23
US	51273949	R2AJPW3YSP1UZN	0971078696	150126771	The Inspired Heart: An Artist's Journey of Transformation	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Trusting the Deep Intelligence of the Universe	Artist Jerry Wennstrom shocked the New York art community in 1979 when he destroyed his paintings at the pinnacle of his illustrious career. Guided by an inner passion to connect directly to divine consciousness, Wennstrom gave away his possessions and began a journey based on complete surrender to life experience. THE INSPIRED HEART shares Wennstrom's personal journal of how he lived for years in a state of grace and faith, discovering divine intelligence and inspiration in a wide breadth of experiences. Wennstrom at various times fasted, experienced the sublime joys of sharing special moments with neighborhood children, and faced potential muggers with loving kindness... to receive loving kindness in return. THE INSPIRED HEART shows us how, &quot;Enlightenment is not a grand finale that leaves us blissfully risen, Buddha-like, above the suffering of the world. It is a deep and unconditional surrender to what already exists and total trust in the larger inherent intelligence, which is willing to lead the way.&quot;<br />I love the color pictures of Wennstrom's art in the middle of this book, and the way Wennstrom's autobiographical short stories weave themselves in dreamy fashion through the places and times of his fascinating life. THE INSPIRED HEART shares the raw and simple beauty of one man's pure heart as it shows us how miraculous, magnificent and rich our lives can be when we let go of everything and allow ourselves to be fully present in this moment, now.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of &quot;AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-06-08
US	51273949	R1LDKYX78NEO7M	1583940839	199069658	The Reincarnation of Edgar Cayce?: Interdimensional Communication and Global Transformation	Books	5	87	89	N	N	A Fascinating Read	THE REINCARNATION OF EDGAR CAYCE explores the possibility that Edgar Cayce has reincarnated and now walks amidst us... as David Wilcock. From this slightly controversial assertion arises the basis for a most fascinating inside view of the topics of reincarnation, Edgar Cayce, David Wilcock, ascension, and the Law of One. THE REINCARNATION OF EDGAR CAYCE provides a careful overview of the consciousness work of David Wilcock.Many of David Wilcock's writings and channelings are included, as is information pertaining to the Egyptian sun-God, Ra.<br />Author Wynn Free does an excellent job of detailing Cayce's and Wilcock's various personal idiosyncracies, while slowly building a case that Wilcock is the reincarnation of Edgar Cayce. The significance of this work is that it asks readers to keep open minds while considering the deeper implications of reincarnation, specifically Edgar Cayce's reincarnation. When we visualize how Edgar Cayce would come back (as he once said he would), would he be concerned with helping mankind deepen our understanding of our higher self? Most likely so. Would he be personally involved in providing as much information as freely as possible? Probably yes.<br />Whether or not you believe David Wilcock is the reincarnation of Edgar Cayce, you'll love THE REINCARNATION OF EDGAR CAYCE for it's in-depth summary of scientific evidence supporting the theory of ascension, it's meticulous examination of Cayce and Wilcock, and it's explanation of what's happening next with Earth changes as we approach the predicted time of great transition. I highly recommend this beautifully written book!<br />-- author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura<br />Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-05-13
US	51273949	R3N0RBWULNOA29	0974872318	293451847	Motivation That Works: How To Get Motivated and Stay Motivated	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Harness Your Passion &amp; Make Your Dreams Come True!	MOTIVATION THAT WORKS is an essential book for everyone, because it's chock-a-block full of enthusiastic, common-sense wisdom for making your dreams come true. I got so excited from reading it that I felt inspired to jump up and DO things, and I was impressed with how completely it covers just about every helpful technique there is for getting and staying motivated.<br />Feel inadequate?<br />-- Deluge yourself with continuous positive affirmations.<br />Unsure what goals to set?<br />-- Pick the most positive goals you can possibly imagine for yourself.<br />Suffer from on-again, off-again motivation?<br />-- Find the secret motivator that will bring you lasting success.<br />Raised by bad examples?<br />-- Choose your own best motivational role models.<br />MOTIVATION THAT WORKS carefully describes a very simple yet complete seven-step system for attaining any goal -- whether it's weight loss or rags-to-riches -- while having fun along the way! I love the personal stories included in each chapter, describing how people succeeded in turning their lives around.<br />If you've had trouble meeting your goals, and wondered what went wrong, MOTIVATION THAT WORKS will help you make your dreams come true. The most common pitfalls, like biting off more than you can chew, or spending time with people and situations that aren't supporting your vision of success, can be easily avoided when you know how to deal with them. I give MOTIVATION THAT WORKS my highest recommendation!	2004-05-13
US	51273949	R1TRE970DF9T1F	0971747601	86496841	When You Reach the End of Your Rope, Let Go!	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Guide to Emotional Self-Healing	WHEN YOU REACH THE END OF YOUR ROPE... LET GO! brilliantly describes simple yet powerful methods you can use to locate and transform your self-sabotaging beliefs.<br />With a rare combination of refreshing candor, sparkling humor and gentle wisdom, author Geoffrey Rose describes how he embarked on a most remarkable journey from anxiety, depression, and low self esteem to relaxed confidence and joy. While extensive training in psychotherapy sessions had offered useful insights, Geoffrey noted that progress had been slow... especially compared with the rapid improvement possible through an alternative method of finding self-sabotaging beliefs through Kinesiological (muscle) testing.<br />Old traumas have the power to become negative beliefs about ourselves, so there is tremendous relief when we learn how to begin expressing long-suppressed thoughts and feelings. WHEN YOU REACH THE END OF YOUR ROPE... LET GO! provides a a very simple Kinesiological self-test which can be used with a self-testing outline to guide you through your self-healing treatment. If you'd prefer a different method, Rose offers two more: a Chinese Five-Element review, and a basic life category approach.<br />WHEN YOU REACH THE END OF YOUR ROPE... LET GO! stands out as a beacon of hope in the darkness, to guide you through rough emotional seas. It's rare to find a book this well-written that successfully conveys practical methods for emotional self-healing that really work. This beautifully written book is as much fun to read as it is life-enhancing; I give it my highest recommendation!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura<br />Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-04-20
US	51273949	R193KVO322OTLO	1401091504	865468691	A Journey Into Prayer	Books	5	28	34	N	N	The High Cost and High Value of Prayer Research	Bill Sweet presents a fascinating behind-the-scenes account of Spindrift prayer researchers Bruce and John Klingbeil in A JOURNEY INTO PRAYER. Facing criticism from both religious zealots and skeptics, the father-son research team nevertheless managed to live their dream of making significant contributions toward a better understanding of how prayer works.  A detailed appendix contains highlights from decades of Spindrift laboratory experiments into goal-directed and non-goal-directed prayer, and is a wonderful starting point for readers wishing to know how their research was conducted.<br />Spindrift experimented with people praying for yeast cells, mung beans, and other living organisms by observing how these organisms were benefited by prayer. The Spindrift research was interpreted by some to be evil, and the Klingbeils were ostracized and ridiculed for daring to scientifically show effects of prayer in the laboratory. A JOURNEY INTO PRAYER looks at the hardships the Klingbeils faced as they continued their prayer research even when their church began the excommunication process, and all the way up to their last days of life, just prior to their suicides. Why would Bruce and John kill themselves when they were just about to enjoy some well-deserved time off? This question and others related to their mysterious deaths are left to the reader to contemplate, following a detailed description of the days and weeks preceding the suicides.<br />What I love most about reading A JOURNEY INTO PRAYER is feeling a sense of being intimately involved in the lives of Bruce and John Klingbeil as they threw themselves fully into their prayer research, even when people misunderstood and misjudged them. A JOURNEY INTO PRAYER is a must read for anyone interested in an unflinching description of the high cost and high value of prayer research -- or who'd enjoy reading a real-life version of the Spiritual X-Files.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of &quot;AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-04-16
US	51273949	RAOE9147FGPEL	0609610104	939784321	Positive Energy: 10 Extraordinary Prescriptions for Transforming Fatigue, Stress, and Fear into Vibrance, Strength & Love	Books	5	69	77	N	N	Sense and Change the Energy in Your Life	Energy psychiatrist Dr. Judith Orloff shares ten heartfelt tips to help you sense and transform the energies around you in order to make better choices and improve the quality of your relationships in her book, POSITIVE ENERGY. You can learn to sense the energy fields or &quot;vibes&quot; surrounding you and other people, places and things -- and by doing so, gain tremendous intuitive insight, poise, and confidence in even the most difficult situations.<br />POSITIVE ENERGY provides clear descriptions of how various kinds of energy ranging from delightfully positive to destructively negative feel, so you can more readily decipher your own physiological and emotional reactions to people and situations. For example, when you meet someone new and notice your body experiencing sudden otherwise inexplicable aches and pains, you're picking up strong negative vibes which should not be ignored!<br />What I like best about POSITIVE ENERGY is the way it brings the concept of bioenergy fields into everyday life, through exercises, stories, and interviews with people from all walks of life (Jamie Lee Curtis, Eve Ensler, Wavy Gravy, Amy Gross, Quincy Jones, Naomi Judd, Larry King, Shirley MacLaine, Rosa Parks, Iyanla Vanzant). POSITIVE ENERGY shines a light into even the darkest places, and provides new techniques for healing ourselves and our world.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura<br />Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-04-12
US	51273949	RI8JMQUU625W9	1564147193	633048179	Progressive Witchcraft	Books	5	16	24	N	N	Fresh Perspective on Ancient Ways of Wicca	From the first moment I began reading PROGRESSIVE WITCHCRAFT, my attention was riveted by the revelation that finally, here is a book that shows the history of Wicca with all its many ever-evolving paths! Truly a scholarly work, PROGRESSIVE WITCHCRAFT includes relevant references at the end of each chapter where readers may further explore specific areas of interest. I was particularly impressed by the inclusion of both the chakra system and Jungian psychology -- along with explanations of how these different perspectives and shamanism have woven their way into various forms and practices of witchcraft.<br />PROGRESSIVE WITCHCRAFT is the kind of book that I imagine will be required reading in many formal Wiccan training programs, because it provides an extraordinarily thorough overview of the history of the craft. Packed with useful tips, tools and exercises, it's also a first-rate introduction to witchcraft that is certain to become a beloved reference book for years to come.	2004-03-11
US	51273949	R2P5C8PX5E29II	1564147118	390775841	Grimoire for the Apprentice Wizard	Books	5	26	40	N	N	Wonderful Wizardry	Packed with pictures and vivid descriptions, GRIMOIRE FOR THE APPRENTICE WIZARD succeeds at providing everything a beginning Wizard could wish to know. From magickal beings and tarot readings to healing arts, herbalism, rituals, astral projection, meditation, shapeshifting, alchemy, scrying and ancient lore, GRIMOIRE FOR THE APPRENTICE WIZARD has it all!<br />Author Oberon Zell-Ravenheart clearly knows his stuff, and has a rare gift for sharing his decades of experience with the friendly ease of a true Wizard who knows how much to reveal, and where best to direct attention for one's growth and development. Each section of the book is short and to-the-point, with beautiful black and white illustrations, and an excellent table of contents and index make it simple to look things up when they're most needed.<br />GRIMOIRE FOR THE APPRENTICE WIZARD is sure to delight and enchant a whole new generation of magickal practioners -- I give it my highest recommendation!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />editor of RealityShifters News ezine and author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2004-03-11
US	51273949	R24JLS49LUW5ZS	1591430208	274383629	The New Children and Near-Death Experiences	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Understanding The New Children & Their Special Gifts	THE NEW CHILDREN AND NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES provides an exceptionally thorough overview of the wide variety of near-death experiences (NDEs) for children and a fascinating description of how these experiences transform children's lives. Author PMH Atwater points out that while there are many types of near-death experiences, there is one identifiable pattern that fits them all... and this pattern sets the stage for great changes in the child's life. Atwater further explains how children born recently, the \\"new children,\\" are demonstrating many of the same characteristics of children who have had NDEs. Many of these children view future events before they happen, learn at a very fast pace, are quick to recognize relationships, see ambiguity in what appears to be factual information, think abstractly, enjoy working independently, and don't want their giftedness pointed out.<br />Atwater shares her decades of NDE experience and research in such an engaging fashion that I became completely absorbed in the stories of these amazing children and their families.  In addition to sharing detailed personal accounts, Atwater provides helpful tips for parents of these gifted children who are often deeply concerned that their children be more \\"normal.\\" These children need an open, supportive environment, and can benefit from revisiting and documenting their experiences.<br />I highly recommend THE NEW CHILDREN AND NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES to anyone interested in better understanding today's new children, and catching a glimpse of how this next generation will change the world!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\" (Adams Media 2004)	2004-03-08
US	51273949	R2FFFOS0D70J0W	0824519493	825390293	Praying for Others: Powerful Practices for Healing, Peace, and New Beginnings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Honoring the Divine Connection	Birrell Walsh's PRAYING FOR OTHERS is a masterpiece of graceful prose that creates a space from which to appreciate a wide variety of connections to the divine. The prayer practices of many faiths are touched upon and presented with great compassion, from the metta blessing in Buddhism, to body-talking shamanism, to Reiki, to prayer with Jesus, to Jewish mystical ascension... and much more.<br />PRAYING FOR OTHERS is truly a smorgasbord of prayer, from which the reader may sample exotic prayer treats from around the world as well as more familiar approaches to connecting with divine healing energy. Heartfelt real-life prayer stories are included throughout, which gives the book a warm feeling of comfort and non-judgment. There are pitfalls to prayer, as anyone knows who's ever succumbed to feeling called to over-vigilance in praying for anyone and everything who needs help, or who's suffered a great loss and wondered why prayer failed this time. Walsh lovingly embraces all these experiences and more, sharing gentle wisdom in such a way that we too, may find grace in even our darkest hours.<br />The end result of reading PRAYING FOR OTHERS is nothing short of miraculous, as one discovers that by simply reading this book, one has received the many blessings of prayer.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2004-03-05
US	51273949	R2PWUMO2ESSL2T	0966435435	476318180	Primary Perception: Biocommunication with Plants, Living Foods, and Human Cells	Books	5	102	103	N	N	The Deep Knowingness in All Living Things	Once you've read PRIMARY PERCEPTION, chances are you'll never see the world the same way again. Cleve Backster's research into the concept of &quot;primary perception,&quot; the way in which even the smallest living organisms demonstrate real-time reactions to their environments, will completely transform the way you think about consciousness of cells, plants, and living foods. Not only do your potted plants know precisely the moment you might spontaneously decide to return home, but they also know when living organisms (such as bacteria in your sink) are suddenly killed in their vicinity. Your own human cells that have been separated from your body and monitored will show immediate reactions to strong stimuli that you are exposed to -- even when they are located in a screen cage about fifteen feet away from you!<br />Cleve Backster is my favorite kind of scientist -- rich in imagination, full of questions, and ever-prepared to take note of the unexpected. These rare and dynamic qualities establish Backster as the most likely candidate for the &quot;Father of Biocommunication&quot; title, as he so clearly leads the way for future scientists to reevaluate their assumptions and methods for studying all living things.<br />PRIMARY PERCEPTION is destined to become a beloved classic because it so clearly describes Cleve Backster's nearly four decades of meticulous cutting-edge research in the field of consciousness research. Written in down-to-Earth language and packed with fascinating photographs and charts, PRIMARY PERCEPTION is guaranteed to alter your perception for good!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of &quot;AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-02-08
US	51273949	R3M37HXKPXMOHG	0966041828	967980049	Passage of Change: A Fable Based on the Research of Bruce Lipton, Ph.D.	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Change Beliefs to Facilitate Healing	This friendly little book of a poetic prose, graced with ink and watercolor illustrations, tells the tale of a ferry boat passenger who meets a most amazing woman one day... and how this experience captures her imagination and transforms her life.<br />Dancing between the imaginal and the real, PASSAGE OF CHANGE evokes a sense of playful wonder at the way cells in our body take messages from our beliefs at face value, and how we can change our lives when we change our beliefs. This powerful message about healing is based on the research of biologist Bruce Lipton in such a way that it's easy to understand and relate to.<br />PASSAGE OF CHANGE is the perfect addition to every healer's office, and an awesome reminder of how our thoughts and feelings change the world.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of &quot;AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-02-04
US	51273949	R2FVKJS9UG6PHG	0972811850	462979415	Atlantis Chronicles, Book 1: Tides of Change	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love &amp; Adventure Beneath the Sea	What if the lost civilization of Atlantis is not completely gone, but has secretly existed for generations under the brilliant blue waters of the Aegean Sea?<br />THE ATLANTIS CHRONICLES tell the thrilling tale of Daria Caiden, a woman whose adventure to meet the Atlanteans reveals hidden powers she must learn to utilize in order to help the Atlanteans avert a terrible catastrophe. While the Atlanteans' way of life feels foreign at first, Daria soon finds herself better suited to this under-sea world than the world of humans up above on dry land.<br />Romance and intrigue kept me turning the pages at a frantic pace, and I could barely set this book down until I'd reached it's final exciting conclusion. I highly recommend THE ATLANTIS CHRONICLES to anyone who enjoys adventure or romance books, as well as everyone who loves Atlantis!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of &quot;AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2004-02-04
US	51273949	R36CIF4CV2M16Z	0961264217	717329415	Quest for Truth: A Journey of the Soul	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exploring Past Lives with Hypnotherapy	Patricia Fry has written a fascinating account of past-life regressions conducted in hypnotherapist Don Clark's office, where people encountered a wide variety of experiences with reincarnation and spiritual healing. Cautiously skeptical at first, Fry was hesitant to be hypnotized by Clark. Once she felt the healing power of hypnosis in her life and recalled some very realistic past lives, Fry found her life and world-view completely transformed as she delved ever deeper into the mysterious realm of reincarnation.<br />QUEST FOR TRUTH reads like letters from a dear friend who shares her sense of wonder and excitement as each new spiritual discovery unfolds. Recollections from places as distant as Atlantis and Lemuria add an especially exotic flavor, and I began to wonder where I've traveled on my own journey of the soul.<br />I highly recommend QUEST FOR TRUTH to anyone interested in hypnosis, past lives, and energy healing!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />editor of RealityShifters News & author of AURA ADVANTAGE	2004-01-27
US	51273949	R39UTNTJOMYK0C	0892812028	360382613	Stalking the Wild Pendulum: On the Mechanics of Consciousness	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Exploring Realities as States of Consciousness	STALKING THE WILD PENDULUM is a truly classic book in the field of consciousness that's lots of fun to read!  Packed with cartoons, graphs, and diagrams, this book entertains as it educates. Scientific theories and experimental results are presented in plain English that clearly show how different realities are actually different states of consciousness... and how we can move from one to another.<br />One of my all-time favorite exercises on stopping time is described -- which helped me better understand how I'd done that when I was a teenager, and wondered if anyone else had ever seen time slow to a stop. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wishes to understand the true nature of reality and consciousness.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />editor of RealityShifters News &amp; author of AURA ADVANTAGE	2004-01-10
US	51273949	RNH3Q68V6EE25	1413703135	574076924	Torn	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Very Different Romance Story	I loved reading TORN, because it was such an unusual love story. It's so different, in fact, that it's safe to say that it will most likely be far outside the experience of most readers. Since my favorite books are those that take me to new places I can vicariously enjoy from the safety of my comfortable reading chair, I loved to read about this very different kind of relationship.<br />The characters in TORN are lovable, multi-faceted and interesting, and I found myself spell-bound as I wondered how they would handle the truly challenging problems that came their way. Their strength of character came shining through, and I was amazed at their courage, honesty, and love in the face of pressure that some people would surely fold under.<br />I highly recommend TORN to readers who enjoy variety in their romance books. This is one love story you'll always remember, because it's so very unique!	2004-01-10
US	51273949	R2FAD92B3J02P2	189336111X	838691468	Becoming Me: A Story of Creation	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Recognizing God in Each of Us	BECOMING ME is a heart-warming picture book that tells the story of creation from a very special vantage point -- that of the Creator. I find myself drawn so fully into this story that I feel I am experiencing what it is like to be God, in a universe where \\"nobody who knew that I was... but I was.\\" Vivid illustrations splash a riot of vibrant colors to express the way spirit finds form in the physical world, as the words transport me into the mind and very heart of God. The most precious gift of BECOMING ME is summed up best in its pages: \\"Sometimes you realize that you are me.\\" This book has a message so priceless that I'll enjoy it with my daughters for years to come... and keep long after they've grown up and moved off on their own.	2003-12-08
US	51273949	R3V1OVWLXG7OYQ	0970211813	492115169	Change Your Aura, Change Your Life: A Step-by-Step Guide to Unfolding Your Spiritual Power	Books	5	49	53	N	N	How Your Energy Field Can Improve Your Life	CHANGE YOUR AURA, CHANGE YOUR LIFE is a gem of a book that shows in words and pictures how you can turn your life around by transforming your inner light, or aura. What makes this book truly priceless are the full-color illustrations depicting a variety of mental and emotional states -- and the transformations that occur when people practice meditation.<br />Author Barbara Martin demonstrates her clear comprehension of the aura by sharing personal experiences of aura viewing, along with helpful meditations for achieving personal goals (such as improved health and prosperity). As Martin says so eloquently, &quot;You are the aura you radiate.&quot;<br />Whether you can currently see auras or not, CHANGE YOUR AURA, CHANGE YOUR LIFE can help you attract positive life experiences through simple visualizations and meditations.	2003-12-02
US	51273949	R3EM3F94HXZK2N	1564146936	744622665	Dark Archetype	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Exploring the Power of Darkness	THE DARK ARCHETYPE  is a fascinating and fun-filled book dealing with a very serious subject. Authors Denise Dumars and Lori Nyx bring a sense of light-hearted humor and warmth to a topic that many of us tend to avoid or ignore -- the &quot;shadow side of the divine.&quot;<br />Written with a refreshingly conversational tone throughout, THE DARK ARCHETYPE takes you on a tour through many of the darkest characters known to mythology, such as:  Anubis, Baba Yaga, The Black Virgin, Coatlicue, Dionysos, The Grim Reaper, Hekate, Hel, Kali, Lilith, Loki, Lucifer, Medusa, Oya, Set, Shiva, Tezcatlipoca, and Volos. I love the way each character is described through stories and thought-provoking questions, and am amazed to begin to feel a sense of closeness and compassion develop for some of these &quot;bad boys&quot; and girls!<br />I appreciate the warnings which are issued at various points in this book, since the subject matter clearly indicates that protection be firmly in place. THE DARK ARCHETYPES can help you begin to understand your own dark side, and improve your connection with things you may have been avoiding, such as death and transformation.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire &amp; Attract Success	2003-12-02
US	51273949	R3VE6R0QL3UKA1	1577330013	310816796	Summer With the Leprechauns: A True Story	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An Enchanting Tale from the Imaginal Realm	SUMMER WITH THE LEPRECHAUNS tells the story of how Tanis Helliwell met leprechauns while spending a summer in Ireland. If you understand that beings from the &quot;imaginal realm&quot; are real, then what would otherwise seem like complete fiction develops the rich hues and textures of multi-dimensional consciousness.<br />Much of SUMMER WITH THE LEPRECHAUNS consists of dialogue between Tanis and the leprechauns. One leprechaun in particular spends hour after hour describing the world of elementals, in order to improve communication between humans and elementals.<br />SUMMER WITH THE LEPRECHAUNS is a truly delightful book that will help you open your mind to new worlds and get you thinking about how magical this world really is!<br />Cynthia Sue Larson<br />-- author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;<br />-- and &quot;Karen Kimball &amp; the Dream Weaver's Web&quot;	2003-11-19
US	51273949	RMV9Q20PGYPEC	1564147169	413933666	Before You Cast a Spell: Understanding the Power of Magic	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An Essential Overview of Magic!	BEFORE YOU CAST A SPELL is the book every magical practioner needs to read first -- before they make some of the most basic mistakes. I love the way this book so clearly points out the most common myths about magic, and proceeds to explain what magic is really all about.<br />I especially love the way BEFORE YOU CAST A SPELL outlines the differences between magic, meditation, and ritual, and the way it describes how the way you interact with the chakras in your body make a huge difference in what happens in your life.<br />While BEFORE YOU CAST A SPELL doesn't teach how to practice magic, it is clearly the most essential guide book for anyone beginning a walk down the magical path. I give this book my highest recommendation!<br />Cynthia Sue Larson<br />-- author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2003-11-19
US	51273949	R200ONFCTQIKJ1	0609608746	881092266	Loving What Is: Four Questions That Can Change Your Life	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Finding Peace in Who and Where You Are	Byron Katie's book, LOVING WHAT IS, provides an easy-to-grasp key to finding peace where you are, right now -- no matter what is going on in your life. While many coaches and therapists advocate acceptance as being the key to overcoming destructive inner negative self-talk, few have so clearly delineated a method for people to achieve this healing state of being.<br />Katie's premise is that your beliefs are what cause you the most pain and suffering, and that by carefully reviewing those beliefs, you can more easily differentiate the things you can change from those you must learn to accept as they are. LOVING WHAT IS describes a simple technique for reviewing and revising your beliefs with a four-question technique that cuts to the core of what is really troubling you.<br />Like a wise grandmother, Katie shows how she lovingly soothes those she assists in transcripts of sessions in which she helps people take a look at whether their beliefs are true... whether they can absolutely know that those beliefs are true... how they react when they think those thoughts... and who they would be if they didn't believe those thoughts.<br />While emotions such as fear and anger may take time to transform into peace and joy, LOVING WHAT IS provides an excellent road-map to a more peaceful and enjoyable life for anyone who is ready to chart a new course.<br />Cynthia Sue Larson<br />-- author of &quot;Aura Advantage: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success&quot;	2003-11-19
US	51273949	R6IKUP2683N05	0929915291	252095998	The H.I.S.S. of the A.S.P: Understanding the Anomalously Sensitive Person	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Demystifying Psychic Sensitivity	Finally -- a book has arrived that scientifically demystifies the &quot;sensitive&quot;! For years, the general public has looked askance at individuals with anomalous sensitivities, often labeling them &quot;crazy,&quot; since normal people don't see ghosts or spirits, talk to trees, recall past lives, or claim to influence the world with psychokinesis. Psychologists examining such sensitives using traditional diagnostic guidebooks, such as the DSM, have often been confused when they've found these individuals are often diagnosable with eight or more simultaneous valid psychological and medical conditions! Clearly there is something more going on than traditional psychology has understood.<br />David Ritchey's THE HISS OF THE ASP covers ten years of scientific research and fifteen years of clinical psychological insights, as it describes how many of the sensitivities of the Anomalously Sensitive Person (ASP) can be objectively measured on a Holistic Inventory of Stimulus Sensitivities (HISS). The HISS test can be administered to determine what kind of sensitivity a person has, and is included along with detailed analyses of the variables being studied. While THE HISS OF THE ASP is packed with details about interpreting test scores, it keeps the reader awake with amusing anecdotes and entertaining cartoons and quotes throughout.<br />THE HISS OF THE ASP will clearly be required reading for all serious students of psychology, as it clarifies centuries of confusion on the subject of how best to understand and support anomalously sensitive individuals.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-10-26
US	51273949	R1QAJCLXMOU2W8	1564147150	430779784	The Pocket Spell Creator: Magickal References at Your Fingertips	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Make the Most of What You've Got	THE POCKET SPELL CREATOR allows you to make the most of whatever crystals, herbs, and essential oils you have on hand. Do you have some lemon, sage, and ginger around the house today? If so, you can quickly whip up one of several recipes for success!<br />Sections toward the front of THE POCKET SPELL CREATOR are devoted to describing the unique properties of individual herbs, oils, and stones, with recipes for bath salts and incantations listed toward the back of the book. This little book is just the right size to carry with you in a pocket or purse, yet it's full of useful information that will empower you to make the most of what you've got.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-10-25
US	51273949	R2GAWI30TBVFX4	1564146669	465014450	A Wiccan Bible: Exploring the Mysteries of the Craft From Birth to Summerland	Books	5	10	20	N	N	Clarifying the Essence of Wicca	A WICCAN BIBLE provides readers with a means to fully appreciate the many sacred aspects of Wicca. All eight Wiccan solar holidays, or Sabbats, are described in detail, as are the principles of Wiccan belief. Author A.J. Drew weaves ancient myths and stories together with modern science, giving A WICCAN BIBLE a feeling of being simultaneously old and new.<br />Never before has a Wiccan book presented such a crystal-clear overview of the religion that it can provide readers with sufficient information and inspiration to immediately begin practicing the Wiccan faith. I love the way A WICCAN BIBLE provides questions that help readers decide for themselves whether or not this religion is best suited for them, while never pushing religious dogma or routine. Wicca, after all, is a very personal religion.<br />I especially enjoyed the way Drew discusses the importance of knowing the difference between kith and kin for both our human and animal companions, since much confusion can be avoided when we recognize the importance of those we share our energy with every day. We can appreciate the energies of those we live with every day differently than the way we work with the energies of those we love who do not live with us, such as spirits and animal totems.<br />A WICCAN BIBLE ought to be required reading for anyone seeking a better understanding of Wicca, as well as all those Wiccans who would appreciate seeing one person's very thorough personal interpretation of the Wiccan faith.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-10-25
US	51273949	R31MUZYA91N19D	1564146723	638260094	Dunwich's Guide to Gemstone Sorcery	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Discovering the Hidden Powers of Gemstones	If you love gemstones and wish you knew how best to work with them, you're in luck. GEMSTONE SORCERY describes the powers and benefits of gemstones in such a way that beginners and adepts will all learn something new. Tap into the wisdom of crystals for healing, and discover which stones to use and which to avoid when making elixirs. Learn the finer points of several different forms of divination with stones, including: crystal-gazing, lithomancy, pessomancy, margaritomancy, and Tarot reading with gemstones.<br />GEMSTONE SORCERY is delightfully readable because it's packed with fascinating stories about gemstones, such as the curse of the blue Hope diamond. It's rare to find a book that is as much fun to read as it is informative; GEMSTONE SORCERY is a rare gem, indeed!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-10-25
US	51273949	R34PGTPXECT1I5	1564146561	745124959	Exploring Chakras: Awaken Your Untapped Energy (Exploring Series)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Quintessential Reference on Chakras	EXPLORING CHAKRAS firmly establishes itself as amongst the top penultimate sources on the subject of chakras, by providing an abundance of quality information in a very organized and easy-to-read format. Will better books ultimately be written? Those of us who continually ask, \\"How good can it get?\\" expect even better collections of scientific and experiential information.<br /><br />What sets this book apart from others at this point in time is the way author Susan Shumsky includes information gained through years of study with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in his ashrams. Her more than 21 years of working with chakras comes shining through each page.<br /><br />Shumsky brings yogic wisdom together with western practicality in such a way that every chapter overflows with delectable Sanskrit words, beautiful illustrations, and tables. I found the description of secret yogic practices to be especially fascinating. I highly recommend EXPLORING CHAKRAS to any serious student of chakras from the Indian point of view; it's the quintessential reference on the subject!<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-10-24
US	51273949	RB63C2DTJ4WWI	0972178309	141172729	Fireworks	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Crime-Solving With Spirit Guide Assistance	Mother/daughter authors Edna Mae Holm and Jill Wellington have crafted a thrilling mystery tale of murder that strikes at the heart of a fireworks dynasty. Members of the Lazare family struggle to keep their fireworks business going and preserve their family secrets following the sudden death of company president Marc Lazare, as police detective Webb Hannis finds help from unexpected sources. Hannis is shocked to gain the ability to see and hear his long-time spirit guide, Samuel, and quickly realizes he can benefit from learning how to interpret Samuel's frequently delightful and occasionally frustrating antics and comments. As Hannis gradually grows to understand and trust Samuel's hints and clues, the mystery of the Lazare murder unfolds with delicious synchronicities.<br />Whether you regularly interact with spirit guides, or wish to gain a behind-the-scenes glimpse of how it feels to work closely with a guardian angel, FIREWORKS will keep you on the edge of your seat!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />[...]	2003-10-01
US	51273949	R1B68UZZMFGFBB	1553691776	9847929	Only one tear...may fall	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timeless Tale of Love, Lust & Intrigue	ONLY ONE TEAR MAY FALL provides a fascinating look into the lives of good men and women in the 1940s who found themselves in the unenviable situation of being citizens of a country led by a mad-man (Adolph Hitler). This riveting account of daily life in Nazi Germany is as surprising as it is engaging, and held me firmly in its spell until I reached the very last page.<br />I watched the main characters of ONLY ONE TEAR MAY FALL in awe, shock, and admiration as they found various ways to cope with the horrific situation all around them. When growing up in Hitler's Nazi Germany, men destined to become military generals and SS officers were raised to know that in their lifetime, only one tear may fall. This harsh expectation had a way of hardening some men, while others managed to find ways to be compassionate in spite of seemingly overwhelming circumstances.<br />While wartime atrocities are only hinted at in ONLY ONE TEAR MAY FALL, its main focus is how it was possible for men and women to maintain a sense of home and family at a time when most German families were being torn apart. At a time when life could end any minute, living in the moment became a way of life. While some men and women chose to live those precious minutes with wild abandon, others found deeper meaning... and even true love.<br />ONLY ONE TEAR MAY FALL is a story that stays with you long after you read it, because of its haunting imagery, suspenseful plot, captivating characters, and timeless relevance. Like a favorite meal that I haven't enjoyed for a long time, I found myself wanting to savor it all over again as soon as I finished it!	2003-09-14
US	51273949	RP9SLGEKADHO9	0972783016	380600615	If You Make The Rules... How Come You're Not Boss? Minding Your Body's Business	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You Can Reverse Disease & Turn Your Life Around!	Elaine Smitha's engaging book, \\"If You Make the Rules... How Come You're Not Boss?\\" is packed with lively personal accounts of her own healing experiences with kundalini and chakra work, visualization, and mantras. What makes Smitha's book stand out is that in addition to her fascinating personal stories, she includes a wealth of scientific research.<br />Smitha has a rare gift for clarifying even the most complex concepts into meaningful and practical ideas you can use every day. From the fun photos of \\"cell sandwiches\\" used to demonstrate the intricate workings of cell physiology to the fact-packed appendices, Smitha's book delights, revitalizes, and inspires.<br />Are you ready to reverse the aging process in your body and feel healthier than ever before? Here's a book packed with everything you'll need to begin that exciting journey!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-09-11
US	51273949	R31IT0WSZMOPH3	0738701955	309008835	The Quest Tarot	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Gorgeous Tarot Deck &amp; Awesome Book!	Whether this is your first Tarot deck or the newest addition to your Tarot collection, THE QUEST TAROT will soon become a trusted friend. The luminous graphics on each card open up multidimensional doorways to other worlds -- with meaningful constellations, rainbows, animals and flowers gracing many of the cards. This deck is instantly accessible, since each card contains a keyword along with it's name (such as &quot;The Moon&quot; -- &quot;Dreams&quot;) for easy interpretation. In addition to providing regular tarot readings, THE QUEST TAROT cards are designed to help you foretell timelines, as well as include gemstones, rune stones, the I Ching, and Kabbalah in your readings. This deck also contains a couple of new cards: &quot;The Multiverse,&quot; and a blank card.<br />What impresses me the most about the companion book is that the information for each card is perfectly aligned with the pages, so at a glance you can read all about each particular card without having to turn any pages. Joseph Ernest Martin demonstrates his creative, playful side by including several games to play with this deck -- everything from &quot;Quest Tarot Poker&quot; to &quot;Truth or Dare!&quot; My other favorite thing about the companion book is how clearly Martin describes techniques for getting the most insight from each of your readings -- &quot;turbo-charging&quot; them so they provide you with the most awesome insights.<br />If you've got burning questions, THE QUEST TAROT has the answers for you!	2003-09-11
US	51273949	R2H1PGJ1LYNJAL	0971933413	618256320	The Sedona Method: Your Key to Lasting Happiness, Success, Peace and Emotional Well-Being	Books	5	118	133	N	N	Find Ultimate Success by Letting Go!	While you're probably aware that holding on to negative energy (such as long-standing grudges, phobias, paranoia, frustrations, blame and worry) is not a good thing to do, you might not be remembering to clean this kind of junk out of your energy field on a regular basis. THE SEDONA METHOD's basic premise is that when you master the art of releasing and letting go of all this negative energy, you'll feel more effective, healthier, happier, and energized.<br />Would you like to be more resilient when times get tough? Would you like to feel more loving, secure, optimistic, calm, and free? THE SEDONA METHOD will show you how to move out of being &quot;stuck on a feeling&quot; that no longer serves you well... and moving onward and upward to a life of total prosperity.<br />If this sounds simple, it's because it is! THE SEDONA METHOD presents real-life stories which give you a sense of how you might be sabotaging your success, as well as the tools for releasing yourself from guilt, shame, fear, and all manner of bad habits. Your mind and emotions can be reprogrammed for joy, health, and success -- and when you learn to understand how you currently incorporate basic emotional states and ways of thinking, you'll see how a few small changes can lead to BIG improvements in your life!	2003-09-11
US	51273949	R36C9XUNF1WM4E	155643393X	971576125	Quantum Touch: The Power to Heal (Second Edition)	Books	5	49	54	N	N	Excellent Book for Energy Workers	I was intrigued by Richard Gordon's book, QUANTUM-TOUCH, since I'm an energy worker with a college degree in physics and the word \\"quantum\\" holds particular interest for me. While reading QUANTUM-TOUCH, I discovered that Gordon does not explain why he calls his healing technique \\"quantum\\" touch, nor does he provide more than the briefest discussion about scientific research into quantum phenomena.<br />What Gordon does do, and does very well, is describe how almost anyone with genuine interest and dedication can see amazing healing results by learning some very simple energy techniques. I especially love the illustrations, and Richard Gordon's friendly approach to enjoying the healing experience. Packed with entertaining stories and clear descriptions of how to do a variety of healing exercises, QUANTUM-TOUCH provides the reader with sufficient tools to embark upon a first-rate healing adventure.<br />QUANTUM-TOUCH provides a thrilling introduction to the world of QiGong, without ever mentioning QiGong. QiGong literally means \\"breath work,\\" or \\"energy work,\\" and that's precisely what Quantum-Touch is all about.	2003-08-12
US	51273949	R3P4RK6WIG6S7Z	1579546862	463718190	The Brazilian Healer with the Kitchen Knife: And Other Stories of Mystics, Shamans, and Miracle Makers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating Profiles of Sixteen Holistic Healers	Sandy Johnson describes her magical journey around the world to meet and be treated by a variety of holistic healers in THE BRAZILIAN HEALER WITH THE KITCHEN KNIFE. Disillusioned to discover that traditional medical doctors offered only the vaguest assurances that her breast cancer would probably not recur, Johnson felt inspired to seek out healers who consider all aspects of an individual (not just the physical) when they heal. Beginning with tips Johnson received from the Native Americans she'd interviewed for her previous book, Johnson discovered a wonderfully diverse group of healers working with shamanic soul retrieval, alchemy, intuition, yoga, Kahuna, Australian Aboriginal, chiropractic, water, musical, and psychic surgery methods.<br />THE BRAZILIAN HEALER WITH THE KITCHEN KNIFE is so fascinating and well-written that I found it impossible to set down, as Johnson devoted a chapter to each of sixteen gifted healers. Here are healers who can see inside peoples' physical and energy bodies with ease -- at times performing miraculous healings. Photos are shown of most of the healers, including one woman healer who comes out of her healing trances to find gold-like metal flakes on her body, an Aboriginal man who works with \\"love, light, crystals, and energy,\\" and men who remove cancerous lumps and cataracts from their patients -- often with nothing more than a kitchen knife.<br />Johnson's open-minded skepticism is refreshing; even as she feels certain she's gone \\"down the rabbit hole,\\" she retains her journalistic common sense and composure to ask these healers how they heal. The healers Sandy Johnson visited include: Sandra Ingerman, Katie Engelhart, Howard Wills, Vianna Stibal, Virginia Ellen, Milton Trager, Gary Brownlee, Auntie Margaret, Warren Barigian, Gerry Bostock, Dr. Ruth Ziemba, Peter Maxwel, Rubens Faria, and John of God.<br />Whether you are considering enlisting aid from a holistic healer, or are just curious to read stories that prove truth is stranger than fiction -- THE BRAZILIAN HEALER WITH THE KITCHEN KNIFE will satisfy and delight. I give this book my highest recommendation.anger than fiction -- THE BRAZILIAN HEALER WITH THE KITCHEN KNIFE will satisfy and delight. I give this book my highest recommendation.	2003-07-12
US	51273949	R1ICTEVZKMPWMT	0971072469	662714360	One In A Million	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Raising Children With Respectful Discipline	Child-raising has changed a lot over the years, leaving today's parents facing questions and issues that previous generations never had to deal with. How do we handle all the conflicting advice we hear from experts -- and how do we help our children be both respectful and joyful?<br />Julie Moss Scandora's book, ONE IN A MILLION gets right to the heart of these issues, with wonderful insights that spring directly from personal experience backed up with thorough research. Whether you need help figuring out ways to help your children treat you and others with more respect, or simply wonder how to help your children know they matter in your life -- this is an awesome book! It truly lives up to its subtitle: \\"Bringing out what is wondrous in your child through trust, understanding, and respect.\\" Yes, you really can guide your child, and feel good about your methods!<br />I love the way Scandora doesn't gloss over the really tricky areas of parenting (such as what do you do when your child has been lying and stealing for some time). I also love the way her respect for both parents and children shines through on every page.<br />Seldom does a parenting book have such warmth, wisdom, and genuine compassion in its pages. If you've been wondering what book could possibly replace that ancient classic, \\"Dr. Spock,\\" look no further -- your child is ONE IN A MILLION, and now you've got the tools to bring out their very best!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-06-28
US	51273949	R1TSLB11RQZ9PC	0062510266	920610021	The Enneagram Made Easy: Discover the 9 Types of People	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	A Refreshing Look at Nine Personality Types	If you've been meaning to figure out how the enneagram personality typing system works, but felt intimidated by weighty tomes on the subject, THE ENNEAGRAM MADE EASY is the book for you! Packed with amusing cartoons that describe aspects of each enneagram personality type on almost every page, this book provides the most interesting and entertaining introduction to the enneagram anyone could hope for. A chapter is devoted to each enneagram type, so you can fully explore: the Perfectionist, the Helper, the Achiever, the Romantic, the Observer, the Questioner, the Adventurer, the Asserter, and the Peacemaker.<br />I love the way THE ENNEAGRAM MADE EASY includes fascinating sub-sections in each chapter such as: \\"What's Hard About Being a Four,\\" \\"Typical Thoughts of a Seven,\\" and \\"How to Get Along With Me.\\" These fun profiles make it easy to spot one's friends, family members, co-workers and even oneself -- and to find ways to make life easier.<br />Whether you have never before studied the Enneagram, or are intimately familiar with it, THE ENNEAGRAM MADE EASY is a book you'll feel refreshed to refer to again and again. I highly recommend it!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-06-26
US	51273949	R1QJEY5KLCZOW0	044651862X	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	5	1	5	N	N	A Thrilling, Fast-Paced Spiritual Adventure	To start reading THE CELESTINE PROPHECY is to embark upon a journey of the spirit and the imagination. Seldom has a book elicited such deep emotional response and spiritual longing as does this fast-paced adventure through the jungles and back roads of Peru. Nine key insights into the meaning of life are revealed one at a time as the story unfolds, with each one's meaning made clear in the context of the story.<br />This multi-dimensional book is rewarding on many levels. It tells a tale of adventure, it presents ideas that have the power to reshape one's life, and it transports readers to a higher state of awareness. From considering the significance of increasingly common coincidences and synchronicities (the first insight), to perceiving what had previously been considered an invisible form of energy (the second insight), all the way to the understanding that our increased perception and vibration will open us to directly experiencing a Heaven that is already before us (the ninth insight), this book keeps readers hungry for more.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson, author of KAREN KIMBALL &amp; the Dream Weaver's Web, and editor of RealityShifters News ezine.	2003-06-26
US	51273949	R51CX2WACLJ8W	185230958X	737369088	Children Believe Everything You Say	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Little Book is PACKED with Great Ideas!	Yes, it's true (although sometimes hard for parents to face) -- CHILDREN BELIEVE EVERYTHING YOU SAY. You can help compensate for some of the things you've said and later wished you hadn't by making good use of the fun and truly usable exercises in this book! Children love stories, and this book is packed with interesting folk tales that illustrate the positive and help children understand the incredible depth and breadth of human emotions.<br />I was amazed at how engaging and fun all of the exercises in this book are, even for older children. This priceless addition to your book shelf can even provide you with tools for improving your own self-esteem. After all, it's never too late for a happy childhood. Get started today with this awesome book!	2003-06-26
US	51273949	R3BMDYQDYIEPVJ	006019300X	577973624	The Field: The Quest for the Secret Force of the Universe	Books	5	352	394	N	N	Scientists Explore the Last Frontier - the Zero Point  Field	With an ear for human interest and eye for detail, Lynne McTaggart masterfully tells the true story in THE FIELD of how pioneers in science and consciousness research are working to achieve a more complete understanding of the true nature of reality -- an understanding which includes (rather than ignores) consciousness.<br /><br />THE FIELD describes how scientists have gradually become aware of what appears to be a unifying energy structure in our universe. This \\"Zero Point Field\\" provides us with a simpler explanation for how things work than previous overly-complex ideas require. Simplicity in science is a good thing, because it generally indicates which theories will win out as time goes by. The Zero Point Field theory demonstrates it's elegant simplicity by allowing physicists to derive the famous equation F=ma (rather than take it as a starting assumption), and by helping medical practitioners understand the underlying scientific basis for homeopathy.<br /><br />Our scientific conceptualization of this universe has changed considerably over the last few centuries and now faces one of the biggest overhauls ever -- and THE FIELD demonstrates why the Zero Point Field is likely to be the last frontier for us to explore. THE FIELD is packed with detailed descriptions of some of the most exciting experiments recently conducted by leading researchers in the field of consciousness such as: Cleve Backster, Jacques Benveniste, William Braud, Bob Jahn, Edgar Mitchell, Fritz-Albert Popp, Hal Puthoff, Rupert Sheldrake, Russell Targ, Elisabeth Targ, and Charles Tart.<br /><br />I give this book my highest recommendation.<br /><br />(Cynthia Sue Larson has a degree in physics from UC Berkeley and is author of the book \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire & Attact Success\\")	2003-06-11
US	51273949	R29KH5MB50RLQR	0971567441	663539196	You Can Make It Heaven: How to Enrich Your Life with Abundance and Loving	Books	5	1	2	N	N	How to Discover &amp; Activate Your Inner Divinity	Have you ever found yourself sabotaged by your &quot;monkey mind,&quot; as all the reasons why you can't succeed dance through your mind at once? Have you found yourself wishing that you could find a way to live true to yourself at home, at work and in your relationships? Have you longed for a life in which you did what you most wanted to do, and were rewarded for pursuing your dreams?<br />If you said, &quot;yes&quot; to any of the above, then you'll be thrilled with YOU CAN MAKE IT HEAVEN! Author Rebecca Skeele writes eloquently about down-to-earth ways you can acquaint yourself with the divinity all around you, and shares personal stories from her life and the lives of those she's coached over the years. Skeele's background in psychology, counseling, and spirituality are evident as her advice comes from the rich tapestry of training combined with years of real-life experience.<br />This is a book you'll find yourself reaching for again and again, as a friendly guide on your journey of self-understanding. YOU CAN MAKE IT HEAVEN when you learn to open your heart to yourself, and feel the love that will transform your view of the world and your life forever.	2003-06-09
US	51273949	R1SGYXH5O1WSMX	1401901875	806318446	Ears of the Angels	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Everything is Energy &amp; Vibrates -- And Can be Tuned!	Neurobiologist Deena Spear writes with candor and self-effacing humor in EARS OF THE ANGELS about how energy work can heal and transform violins,  violas, cellos... and human beings. Spear's fascinating, detailed descriptions of violin enhancement began with physical techniques (such as tapping, blowing, and scraping), and moved into non-physical, hands-on and long-distance energetic techniques.<br />What sets EARS OF THE ANGELS apart from most other energetic healing books is the way it describes energetic acoustic principles that can heal both stringed instruments such as violins, and sentient beings such as humans. Spear includes delightful real-life stories from clients whose instruments have been tuned (and sometimes even glued) long-distance without any direct physical contact from Spear that clearly attest to the efficacy of her methods. She describes how her energy tuning work has helped pets become cancer-free, people become toxin-free, and significantly improved relationships.<br />Anyone interested in enhancing the sound of stringed instruments will find EARS OF THE ANGELS essential reading, as will everyone who wishes to discover more about the kinds of physical changes that are possible through conscious intention and energy field work. I give EARS OF THE ANGELS my highest recommendation!	2003-06-09
US	51273949	R1QQU43ZBPNRDX	1403399387	300783429	Unforgettable	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Restore Your Faith in True Love	\\"Unforgettable\\" lives up to its name, and then some. This poignant love story is told from the point of view of a shy young man named Charles, who tells the tale of how he met and fell in love with his high school sweetheart, Cindy. While growing up in a small town in Arizona has both good and bad points, it lends a very special atmosphere to this exceptionally sweet love story. Charles helps Cindy train for the \\"Miss Rodeo Queen\\" contest, and overcomes his shyness to join her on stage at school to sing a duet. Cindy and Charles also share special time together on picnics, parties, dances, and camping as their love for one another deepens in their idyllic high school years.<br />Unexpected twists and turns of fate cause emotional and physical upheaval in Cindy and Charles' lives following graduation from high school. Even so, the romance shared by these two young lovers eventually proves its power for transcending all obstacles -- even death. \\"Unforgettable\\" may well have you crying tears of release by the end of the book, as it did for me. This book will help restore your faith in the power of love, and will bring you a greater sense of what really matters in life -- making it unforgettable.	2003-05-13
US	51273949	R2Q68CB1ERGWMX	0740733370	736059543	Compass Of The Soul: 52 Ways Intuition Can Guide You To The Life Of Your Dreams	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Live the Life You've Always Dreamed of	If you've ever wondered what was missing in your life and would like to figure out what you really want, COMPASS OF THE SOUL is the book for you! Each of the ideas suggested in this book's 52 easy-to-read chapters includes real-life stories, practical suggestions, and straightforward intuition exercises you can put to immediate use in your life. Author Lynn Robinson excels at making sublime spiritual concepts accessible and comprehensible as she shares wisdom she's gleaned from years of helping people make their dreams come true.<br />Could you benefit from finding a way to recognize something good when almost everything seems to be going wrong? Would you like to know how to focus your thoughts on what you really want, rather than what you're afraid will happen or upset about having happened in the past? Let COMPASS OF THE SOUL help you rediscover your spiritual center and reacquaint you with the inner guidance system you were born with.<br />This book is perfect for giving you a boost every time you read it -- whether you choose to devour it in one single sitting or savor each of it's 52 chapters every week for a year. COMPASS OF THE SOUL is a rare gem of exceptional clarity and insight that is destined to be a classic book for anyone seeking personal coaching and spiritual guidance.	2003-04-29
US	51273949	R2IE6RB4NYUQJD	1571743499	400041340	The Force Is with You: Mystical Movie Messages That Inspire Our Lives	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Finding Spiritual Meaning in Cinema	Hallelujah! We finally have a book that's dedicated to covering the newly emerging category of spiritual cinema! THE FORCE IS WITH YOU is written by Hollywood insider Stephen Simon, who writes straight from his heart about the significant messages in more than 70 movies. Spiritual Cinema is all about exploring the meaning of love, life, death, time, and space -- which are the topics I most enjoy seeing in the movies. Most of my favorite movies are included here: The Matrix, Sliding Doors, Somewhere in Time, The Kid, Frequency, Star Wars, Lost Horizon, The Sixth Sense, Ghost, What Dreams May Come, Defending Your Life, Groundhog Day, Contact, Phenomenon, Powder, Being There, The Truman Show, Sleepless in Seattle, Family Man, and It's A Wonderful Life.<br />What I love best about THE FORCE IS WITH YOU is the way it so clearly conveys a sense of hope, inspiration, and purposefulness about the way humanity learns about its worst fears and greatest hopes through stories. Yes, we love to vividly imagine the end of the world... but we also love to dream of ways we can find solutions to our biggest problems. We know that it's not easy being more spiritually and psychically evolved... but we love to imagine how those of us who are different can be accepted in mainstream society.<br />THE FORCE IS WITH YOU is priceless for clarifying what the new genre of  \\"Spiritual Cinema\\" is all about, and for providing an inspiring list of the most spiritual movies of all time. It is my deepest hope that this book will help establish awareness in film-makers everywhere of the importance of making spiritual movies, as it helps movie-goers better understand the significance of the movies they see.	2003-04-13
US	51273949	R1Y8WA47JDJ7BV	0595225012	569788043	Baktun 2012	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mayan Adventure Set in 2011	BAKTUN 2012 tells the story of one woman's spiritual adventure in the Mayan pyramids. As the year 2012 approaches, a San Francisco woman named Karen Rune still grieves for her deceased female lover, and remembers how happily they had lived together in Mexico several years before. Karen finds herself dreaming strange dreams and feels drawn to return to Mexico to seek guidance from a Mayan astronomer and teacher named Yvonne Quextal. When she arrives in Mexico, Karen learns that the coming of the new Mayan age, or baktun, coincides with the coming of the Raven comet that the Mayans call &quot;crow,&quot; because it announces a new creation. The surprise of BAKTUN 2012 is how this creation comes into being... there is an unexpected twist at the end of this book!	2003-04-13
US	51273949	RLCD6EFZJ0UC4	0375507787	83669958	Nothing Is Impossible: Reflections on a New Life	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Restorative Tonic of Hope & Compassion	In NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE, Christopher Reeve describes his life after becoming paralyzed from a fall off a horse. He awakened every morning, \\"to emerge from the dreams in which I'm completely healthy and able to do anything and adjust to the reality of paralysis.\\" As Reeve learned to find humor in everyday life as a way to cope with his anger, his family, friends, and medical care-givers helped him maintain a regular program of physical exercise. Because he believed it was possible to recover his health and he never gave up a regular exercise program, he was able to shock his doctors one day by wiggling his fingers!<br />While he has not yet freed himself from his wheelchair, the very fact that Reeve is regaining motor control below his neck provides hope to people everywhere. I was profoundly moved by NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE, because Reeve so clearly conveys the importance of cultivating compassion; when we feel and respond to the needs of others, there is hope for us all. When Reeve writes, \\"It is impossible to legislate compassion, yet that is what is needed most,\\" he explains how it is possible for people to rise above any challenge by helping one another. Reeve's message of hope and compassion is truly a restorative tonic for our times.	2003-03-08
US	51273949	R1VPQ3GKQ6DQAR	0972240039	532610655	The 10 Things You Need To Know To Attract the Mate of Your Dreams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ten Tips for Finding Your True Love	Close your eyes and imagine for a moment how your true love looks, feels, sounds, and moves. Notice as many details as you can, from eye color to how it feels when you hug. Now ask yourself, &quot;Am I ready to see my perfect mate in physical form?&quot; If your answer is &quot;Yes,&quot; then this book is the one for you!<br />Husband-wife authors Heidi Ratner-Connolly and Randy Connolly share the metaphysical technology that made their vision of love a reality in their book, &quot;Attract the Mate of Your Dreams.&quot; They describe the amazing true story of how they found one another, and then provide ten practical steps that will help you align your conscious and unconscious mind with the energies of the universe to bring you together with your ideal love.<br />&quot;Attract the Mate of Your Dreams&quot; is ideal for anyone who feels they have been bypassed by love, or knows a friend who is single and lonely. The ten simple steps in this book will be familiar to those who have studied manifestation and conscious creation, yet they are assembled in a fresh new way that provides the reader with powerful reminders of how to change one's thoughts and focus one's feelings for best effect.	2003-02-08
US	51273949	R23S1CI95H2AMV	1573245542	99866375	The Book of Love	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Make Your Relationship the Best it Can Be	Daphne Rose Kingma has written many wonderful books about love, and this one, titled simply, &quot;LOVE,&quot; easily stands out from the rest as a book that can guide you to becoming more loving in your primary relationship. This is the perfect book for couples who feel stuck, and don't know what to do to &quot;bring the magic back,&quot; or who would like to learn to navigate through hardships better, or simply learn to relate to one another. Every chapter is short, full of loving compassion, and incredibly thought-provoking.<br />The six sections in this book are a little like layers on an onion; they start with the basics of learning to love yourself, say loving words, and listen to your beloved -- and then they move into more intimate places of sharing fears, fighting a good fight, and trusting one another -- and then into the really deep layers of finding meaning and enhancing intimacy. Kingma's writing voice sounds to me a lot like a friendly spiritual guide -- someone who clearly has been through everything she writes about, and offers excellent advice.<br />This book is ideal for anyone who wishes to work on relating through love and connecting more fully to their loved one -- and it is the kind of book to share and discuss with your beloved as you work together to make your relationship the best it can possibly be.	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R12V3VOJD6RR3L	0517599023	588801373	Love: A Treasury of Verse and Prose Scented by Penhaligon's	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Sensory Delight!	This book of love poetry is not only visually stunning (with exquisite full-color art panels on every page), but it also is pleasantly scented. It's hard to imagine a more memorable book to give the one you love -- this one is a classic in every sense of the word. I am delighted to see William Wordsworth's poem, \\"Perfect Woman\\" included in this collection, along with Robert Browning's, \\"The Lost Mistress,\\" and Emily Dickinson's \\"The Rose Did Caper.\\" Seldom does a book of poetry please so many senses simultaneously -- LOVE is truly a sensory delight!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R1MA9EYY94A9YE	0972240039	532610655	The 10 Things You Need To Know To Attract the Mate of Your Dreams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ten Tips for Finding Your True Love	Close your eyes and imagine for a moment how your true love looks, feels, sounds, and moves. Notice as many details as you can, from eye color to how it feels when you hug. Now ask yourself, &quot;Am I ready to see my perfect mate in physical form?&quot; If your answer is &quot;Yes,&quot; then this book is the one for you!<br />Husband-wife authors Heidi Ratner-Connolly and Randy Connolly share the metaphysical technology that made their vision of love a reality in their book, &quot;Attract the Mate of Your Dreams.&quot; They describe the amazing true story of how they found one another, and then provide ten practical steps that will help you align your conscious and unconscious mind with the energies of the universe to bring you together with your ideal love.<br />&quot;Attract the Mate of Your Dreams&quot; is ideal for anyone who feels they have been bypassed by love, or knows a friend who is single and lonely. The ten simple steps in this book will be familiar to those who have studied manifestation and conscious creation, yet they are assembled in a fresh new way that provides the reader with powerful reminders of how to change one's thoughts and focus one's feelings for best effect.	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R1OZNIIHGIM1WF	0671002783	733042409	God on a Harley	Books	5	40	40	N	N	An Awesome Spiritual Romance	When I first saw the title of this book, &quot;God on a Harley,&quot; I must have laughed for several minutes straight. I leafed through a few pages, wondering if the story was any good, and was quite surprised to discover that this spiritual romance novel is not just good -- it's excellent!<br />What if God appeared as a gorgeous man with long sable hair and a black jacket atop a Harley Davidson 1340cc motorcycle to a single 37 year-old woman? Could this be what it takes to help her shake off the self-limiting behaviors and beliefs that have stood between her and a happy life? You'd better believe it! As our heroine, Christine, slowly begins a life-altering journey to transform her life into one she actually enjoys living, she finds the meaning of love, and the secrets to enjoying a happy life.<br />Even if you normally don't enjoy romance novels, I'm sure you'll love &quot;God on a Harley&quot;. This book is sheer genius, and can help you see your life in a whole new light!	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R1V4PRVIF9F452	157324564X	298408722	Finding True Love: The 4 Essential Keys to Discovering the Love of Your Life	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Learning to Navigate the Path to Love	If you haven't yet discovered Daphne Rose Kingma, you are in for a treat. In &quot;Finding True Love,&quot; Kingma shares wisdom gleaned from her 25 year career as a therapist, providing encouragement and inspiration for even the most lovelorn among us.<br />Kingma shows that there is a &quot;path to love,&quot; and that you are already on it. When you open yourself with a sense of faith and know that love awaits you, and make yourself available for love... you have begun your journey. Your next step is to set your intention for love, which means you will need to know who you really are, discover why love has apparently eluded you so far, and develop your capacity for love. Once you've set your intentions, you need to restore a sense of trust in love. This trust involves being realistic about what love actually is at the same time that you recognize the higher (spiritual) purpose of relationships, and appreciate the wisdom of spirit in creating relationships for you. Finally, you need to master the art of surrender to love -- and Kingma explains how this involves letting go of your preconceptions about what love is and isn't at the same time as you leap into the unknown with a sense of gratitude and appreciation for the paradox of love.<br />Kingma is a master at helping us unconditionally love ourselves at the same time as we learn to trust spirit and love -- even when our hearts may have been broken so many times before. She shares touching stories that illustrate her points, and offers a glimpse of what love can be, if only we learn to allow it fully into our lives.<br />This book can change your life forever. I give it my highest recommendation!	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R1L4DUKUDL4R7F	1573247596	370212824	365 Days of Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Something Special to Love Each Day of the Year	This book is a gem for keeping handy for daily consultation, or just as a reference book of fresh ways to see the world through the eyes of love each and every day. The format of the book is simple; each page represents one of the 365 days of the year, and contains a heading (such as \\"Separate and Together\\") along with a short (three paragraph in this case) description of how to refresh your view of this aspect of love.<br />This book is truly a book for lovers (not friends), so it's the perfect gift for you to give yourself or that very special someone in your life. Whether your relationship is brand new, or has weathered the seasons of time, you'll find wonderful insights in this very thoughtful and compassionate book.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R16CE5UNTPWOSH	0385490844	179358612	The Future of Love: The Power of the Soul in Intimate Relationships	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Failure is Impossible in Love -- Because Love is Who You Are	Daphne Rose Kingma's book, THE FUTURE OF LOVE is a literary masterpiece. It shines like a star in the night, guiding us to a new and much improved view of ourselves and our relationship histories. With compassionate words and crystal-clear logic, Kingma explains why failure in love is actually impossible -- because love is who you are. Every relationship you have ever had has been part of your life for a very good reason, and when you step back and examine your life with compassionate eyes, you can see (perhaps for the first time) how perfectly orchestrated everything has actually been.<br />As Kingma writes, &quot;We stretch, and to our amazement we don't break. Instead, we grow. Suddenly, everything becomes easier, and our hearts, which once we believed could love only one person, or were battered so badly we thought they could never love again, expand so fully that the whole world is welcome.&quot;<br />This spiritual book can provide amazing insights for you, regardless which of the seven stages of love you may currently find yourself in (Romance, Commitment, Crisis, Ordeal, Chaos, Surrender, Transformation). One thing is certain after you've read this book -- your view of the meaning of love will be permanently transformed.	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R3JSRJ65OOYN66	0062509144	1368903	Essence of Love: Fragrance, Aphrodisiacs, and Aromatherapy for Lovers	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Smell of Love	Maggie Tisserand's book, &quot;Essence of Love,&quot; is an excellent introductory book for anyone interested in the use of scents to improve one's romantic life. Tisserand provides basic tips and pointers for those who are new to working with essential oils, and also explains which scents are most useful for which effects. Even if you don't have a lover to massage with heavenly-scented oils, you can benefit from bringing scents into your daily life. Luxuriate in scented baths, and savor the pleasure of a well-scented home.<br />If you are really getting into the art of blending essential oils, Tisserand provides a number of wonderful recipes that can help you with various skin and hair care issues, or simply improve how you feel (emotionally). I was surprised to learn that jojoba oil can emulsify fats in the deeper layers of the skin, so the body can more easily get rid of them -- and that lemongrass oil can fight and eliminate infection in the connective tissues of the body.<br />This book is a wonderful reference book, as well as being packed with information that will both inspire and amaze you. I found Tisserand's list of scentual facts to be especially fascinating... it includes such tantalizing tidbits as, &quot;Female hormones can be diffused across a room, but male pheromenes can only be transferred by intimate contact.&quot;	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R1C9N7DT9FAH8F	0385486898	215655850	50 Most Romantic Things	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Heart-Warming Stories to Delight & Inspire Lovers Everywhere	This wonderful book contains summaries of fifty of the greatest love stories ever -- and they're all true! Included in this little gem of a book are the stories of how John Lennon and Yoko Ono first met and fell in love, as well as stories about Antony & Cleopatra, Clark Gable and Carole Lombard, Grace Kelly and Princess Ranier, and Charles Lindbergh and Anne Morrow. These stories are as inspiring as they are entertaining, and are sure to delight you!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2003-02-02
US	51273949	RK5GM53Y6QW94	0821222236	154448049	The Love Tarot: Uses the Power of the Mystic Deck to Guide You in Love, Romance and Sex	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Package for More Experienced Card Reader	The gorgeous cards in this deck of &quot;Love Tarot&quot; cards convey the meaning of traditional tarot with an interesting blend of Victorian and New Age styles. The twenty-two cards included in this deck are known as the Major Arcana, or the face-cards, of the tarot. A sturdy box holds both the book and cards so they can easily be stored and transported. The slender book that accompanies these cards whets the reader's appetite to learn more, while providing only the most basic interpretation of the significance of the card. Because the book does not provide tremendous detail on the meaning of the cards, this deck is better suited for people who are already somewhat familiar with the reading tarot cards.	2003-02-02
US	51273949	R2Y69VCWE66AB3	1577311930	560648300	Unfolding: The Perpetual Science of Your Soul's Work	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Finding Your Best Life Path	If you've ever felt like, &quot;Some day, I'll know what I want to be when I grow up,&quot; and now you're beginning to wonder when (or if) that day will ever arrive, UNFOLDING is the book for you! Written by a spiritual scientist who believes in the wisdom of consciously working in collaboration with God, this excellent book provides you with tools you can use right now to find your best possible life path. When you learn the art of unfolding, you will remember how to be who you are, discover your purpose, develop your partnership with God, choose your soul's path, share your soul's gifts with others, and create healing in the world.<br />Julia Mossbridge is an award-winning neuroscientist who was inspired to become a life coach when she felt a need to find a more fulfilling life for herself. She knew that there was a lot of untapped potential inside of her, and when she set out to discover how to rebuild her life around who she really was, she was amazed at how much better that felt! UNFOLDING describes the process Mossbridge successfully teaches and uses to do the inner work required for living an outwardly successful life. Each section contains wonderful exercises that will help you see immediate results.<br />UNFOLDING is a friendly book that stimulates my imagination and delights my intellect, and I love it so much that I've been carrying it with me everywhere I go. I especially like the sections on &quot;Creating Goal Communities,&quot; &quot;Recognizing Splintered Paths,&quot; and the &quot;Fear-Facing Practice.&quot; Another unexpected gem in this book is Mossbridge's amazingly clear explanation of how to integrate the seemingly opposite and unreconcilable philosophies of &quot;Let Go, Let God,&quot; and &quot;100 Percent Responsibility&quot; when you create your partnership with God. For that section alone, this book is worth the purchase price!	2003-01-30
US	51273949	R1TSCA9HD33DBH	0880790792	389433624	Hanson-Roberts Tarot Deck	Books	5	56	59	N	Y	My Favorite "Traditional" Tarot Deck	The HANSON-ROBERTS tarot deck is by far my favorite of all the traditional tarot decks, because it has a \\"lightness of being,\\" fairy-like or angelic quality to it, while at the same time maintaining the integrity of the original Tarot symbols. People (especially children and psychic/sensitives) will likely find themselves instantly attracted to this deck because of the feeling of purity its illustrations are imbued with. <br />Colorful and cartoonlike, each card's illustration still manages to convey even the most somber of moods, such as the lifeless solemnity of the knight's effigy resting atop a marble tomb on the Four of Swords. Other cards, such as Temperence and The Star shine with such radiance that one feels uplifted just to gaze upon their beauty.<br />This is a Tarot deck to cherish forever as both a work of art and a divination tool to share with others -- especially those with sensitive natures.	2003-01-18
US	51273949	RN7Z5KPL64A4Q	0395673461	146290400	The Sweetest Fig	Books	5	29	29	N	N	What if... When You Slept, Your Dreams Came True?	Chris Van Allsburg's book, THE SWEETEST FIG, is an exquisitely illustrated book that raises the fascinating question, \\"What if... when you slept, your dreams came true?\\"<br />This story tells the tale of a mean-spirited dentist, Monsieur Bibot, who lives in Paris, France, with only his small, white dog for a companion. When Bibot receives as payment two small figs from an old woman who can't afford to pay him for his dental services, he is furious. The woman tells Bibot that these figs are special... \\"they can make your dreams come true.\\" Dreams are clearly something that Bibot cares little for... that is, until he discovers that the old woman was telling him the truth. When he finds himself standing outside a restaurant dressed only in his underwear, and the Eiffel Tower bending down as if it were made of rubber -- he rushes home and begins practicing the art of controlling his dreams. Bibot's attempt to overly-control his life takes a surprising turn, and this story vividly illustrates the point that greed and self-absorption can ruin a man's life.<br />Because the artwork in this book is so exceptionally good and the moral of the story is so delightful, this is one book that parents will love to read to their children again and again!	2003-01-18
US	51273949	R28V3T587A5I91	0738702749	675641178	The Fairy Ring: An Oracle of the Fairy Folk	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ask the Fairies for Personal Guidance &amp; Advice	THE FAIRY RING consists of a gorgeous book and deck of divination cards that are similar to Tarot cards, and are divided into four seasonal suits of Spring, Summer, Autumn, &amp; Winter. The beautifully designed cards give one an immediate sense of the wonder of entering the fairy realm, and are truly stunning to behold. THE FAIRY RING book provides enchanting stories of each character that explain the divinatory message imparted in every card reading. I particularly enjoyed reading the story about Queen Oonaugh, where she cleverly helps Fin MacCool avoid a fight with a giant called Cucullin by recommending that Fin pretend to be his own baby when the giant shows up at his home.<br />In addition to a court of thirteen fairies representing each season (with a Lady, Knave, King, Queen, and Ace), there are eight fairy festival cards (Imbolc, Ostara, Beltane, Midsummer, Lughnasa, Herfest, Samhain, and Yule). It's easy to sense at a glance which fairies are good to work with and which are not, since each card conveys through use of color, expression, and lighting the feelings being described. THE FAIRY RING book further clarifies which fairies are helpful and provides advice regarding how best to obtain help from them (such as Habetrot, Asrai, the Sea Mither, Brownies and Leprechauns), and which fairies are best avoided because they are known for being treacherous, illusory, or inaccessible (such as the Changeling, Will o' the Wisp, or Jenny Greenteeth). For those who need a little help asking the fairies for guidance, nine different divinatory spreads are provided, along with a sample reading for the Fairy Market spread.<br />If you already feel an affinity for fairies and are willing to read through the stories and divinatory meanings for each card, this deck will quickly become an invaluable aid. I received meaningful guidance and advice from THE FAIRY RING deck after using it twice!	2003-01-17
US	51273949	R2L7D9CMRHM5XF	068983831X	866004229	Emily's Art (Richard Jackson Books (Atheneum Hardcover))	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Gorgeous Watercolor Picturebook about Feelings	EMILY'S ART is the story about Emily, a first-grade girl who loves to paint. There is a colorful aura of joy around Emily as she paints with her heart, and she radiates a soft, pink glow when she paints a watercolor picture of her friend, Kelly. When Emily's class participates in a school-wide art contest, Emily chooses to enter a picture of her dog, Thor, with great big ears, \\"Because Thor hears everything.\\" When all the first-grade pictures are judged in the art contest, Emily is heart-broken to see her beloved picture of Thor passed over because the judge hates dogs. Fortunately, Emily's friend, Kelly, and her teacher, Ms. Fair, show Emily how much they care about her, and the story ends with a class party to celebrate all the beautiful pictures the children made.<br />What makes this picture book so very special is the way that every illustration of Emily shows how she feels in body posture, facial expression, and her human energy field. When Emily is happy, soft colors of light shine around her head and shoulders. When Emily is sad, her head droops forward and she becomes transparent as her aura disappears. Every picture of her aura is delightfully different -- my favorite is the one where she is showing her friend, Kelly, how to draw a dinosaur and lots of bright colors surround her head, back, and arm!<br />This is a gorgeous watercolor picture book that shows how feelings look in the human energy field. I give it my highest recommendation!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson	2003-01-16
US	51273949	R17FV4YJMB6DP7	0443062617	607159058	Energy Medicine: The Scientific Basis	Books	5	63	67	N	N	Excellent Scientific Overview of Energy Medicine	James Oschman's compelling book, ENERGY MEDICINE, provides an excellent scientific overview of the healing power of subtle energy fields. As scientists increasingly recognize how living organisms consist of dynamic energy systems based on familiar kinds of physical field phenomena, we can all begin to see that \\"vibrational therapies are not magic or superstition: they are based on biology, chemistry, and physics.\\"<br /><br />Oschman guides the reader through a delightful series of beautifully-illustrated chapters that present well-organized pieces of a bridge between scientific information and complementary medicine. While western medical practioners have long been aware that rapid and spontaneous remissions occur for even the most potent cancers and the most catastrophic injuries, they have been slower to establish and evaluate workable explanations for how such healing can occur. ENERGY MEDICINE thoroughly examines the most current scientific theories and experimental findings to describe how a wide variety of complementary medical treatments operate within the realm of what we know to be true.<br /><br />I hope that ENERGY MEDICINE will be required reading in schools the world over, because it presents scientific research without side-stepping around the most interesting aspects of healing (such as spontaneous remissions). When you read ENERGY MEDICINE, you'll learn how: our cells and tissues are crystalline molecular arrays that act as coherent antennas, humans respond to the Schumann oscillations around the Earth, a mechanism for entrainment operates between the Earth and humans, and superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) can be used to detect biomagnetic fields around the human body. You'll also discover a wealth of fascinating facts, such as how the ventricle of the heart is formed of a single band of muscle wrapped in a double-helix in such a way that the heart's rhythmic beatings resonate with the more rapid oscillations of DNA.<br /><br />ENERGY MEDICINE is a must for anyone who desires a more complete understanding of the scientific basis for complementary and alternative medicine.<br /><br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br /><br />author of \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"for anyone who desires a more complete understanding of the scientific basis for complementary and alternative medicine.    -- Cynthia Sue Larson    author of \\"AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success\\"	2003-01-14
US	51273949	R3MTV4KGFUXTAS	0060196726	473690060	The Lives of the Muses: Nine Women & the Artists They Inspired	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Discovering What it Means to be a Muse	THE LIVES OF THE MUSES examines how eight women (Hester Thrale, Elizabeth Siddal, Lou Andreas-Salome, Gala Dali, Lee Miller, Charis Weston, Suzanne Farrell, and Yoko Ono) and one little girl (Alice Liddell) provided essential inspiration to their artist companions. While artistic inspiration can come from many sources (music, fasting, prayer, meditation, romantic love), Francine Prose's book examines the romantic kind of artistic inspiration which arises between men and women -- with men typically playing the role of artist to the woman's role of muse.<br />And who, exactly, is a muse? Francine Prose writes, \\"The muse is often that person with whom the artist has the animated imaginary conversations, the interior dialogues we all conduct, most commonly with someone we cannot get out of our minds.\\" Francine Prose delves into some of the most intimate details of the muses' and artists' sexual lives, yet never loses touch with the vision of her book as a guidepost to better understanding the art of being a muse. While muses are chosen by artists, and therefore seemingly have no ability to chart muse-dom as a career path for themselves, they appear to share certain qualities with one another. For one thing, many muses have been intensely disliked by their contemporaries -- perhaps because people can intuitively sense that there is an unusually strong bond of love between an artist and his muse.<br />If the subject of this book at times makes one feel uncomfortable, that is no doubt due to the fact that the interaction between artists and muses take people to the very greatest emotional heights and depths. The passions felt between artists and their muses are so tremendous that they sometimes provoke people's behavior to go completely out-of-control... yet these same passions present artists with some of their greatest sources of inspiration. Francine Prose's extraordinary book, THE LIVES OF THE MUSES, shows us a unique vision of how artists' lives are shaped and driven by the love and inspiration of their muses. It is the gift of the muse to offer her artist \\"that rare and precious spark ignited by genius and passion.\\"n by the love and inspiration of their muses. It is the gift of the muse to offer her artist \\"that rare and precious spark ignited by genius and passion.\\"	2003-01-03
US	51273949	RWLUMAUDS9P5U	0812924347	591059194	Always a Reckoning and Other Poems	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Heartfelt Poems from America's Presidential Nobel Laureate	I read Jimmy Carter's book of poetry, ALWAYS A RECKONING, with the simple expectation that the poems would be heartfelt and tell stories from his life in plain, down-to-Earth prose. I was stunned to find myself moved to tears with the very first poem, &quot;Rachel,&quot; which was dedicated to the memory of the neighbor woman who cared for Jimmy after his folks were gone. In a few short pages, Jimmy had succeeded in describing what was so special about those days with Rachel, and how important she truly was in his young life.<br />Other poems in ALWAYS A RECKONING are laugh-out-loud funny, such as, &quot;Progress Does Not Always Come Easy,&quot; which describes the trials and tribulations Jimmy Carter underwent when he successfully passed his first legislation (ensuring that deceased citizens lose their voting rights), which turned out to be quite unpopular in every precinct with a cemetery!<br />ALWAYS A RECKONING is a rare gem of a book that gives readers a sense of the inner beauty of Jimmy Carter's heart and soul.	2002-12-31
US	51273949	R3SX1AAS0C8CEI	0553373196	678075444	Change Your Mind, Change Your Life	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Heal All Your Relationships	While most of us are well aware that &quot;love is the answer,&quot; we frequently encounter difficulty when we attempt to live our lives according to that seemingly lofty principle. We're challenged the moment someone &quot;pushes our buttons&quot; and leaves us feeling righteous anger for their thoughtless words and actions. The beauty behind CHANGE YOUR MIND, CHANGE YOUR LIFE is that it provides us with effective tools for bringing real feelings of love into all of our most challenging real-life situations, such as: parenting, competitive sports, business transactions, and even legal disputes and divorce.<br />Authors Jampolsky and Cirincione are pioneers in the field of attitudinal healing, and have assisted people overcome their inner conflicts while facing a wide variety of debilitating physical, emotional, and mental challenges. This wealth of real-life experience helps CHANGE YOUR MIND, CHANGE YOUR LIFE, present its revolutionary ideas in crystal-clear language with down-to-Earth suggestions. Rather than see our relationships with others as sources of most of the problems in our life, we can learn to appreciate how each and every relationship is a golden opportunity to experience love.<br />It is possible to heal all your relationships by releasing preconceived notions about others along with all grievances. Imagine for a moment what your life will be like when you know how to be peaceful and loving inside, regardless of what is happening all around you. Imagine that you can speak your truth in every moment, while always maintaining peace of mind as your primary goal. Now imagine how the whole world will be when lots of people begin doing this -- and you'll realize why this book is so important right now!	2002-12-31
US	51273949	RGXOFJXYV9KDF	0345361571	545181812	A Book of Angels	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Thrilling Exploration into Angelic Realms	A BOOK OF ANGELS is my favorite source of information on the subject of angels, because it contains the most dazzling array of myths and stories about angels one could ever hope to find in one book. I am equally delighted with its thrilling personal accounts of the way human poets, mystics and saints (such as Blake, Dante, Dostoyevski, Goethe, Milton, Poe, Rilke, Shakespeare and Swedenborg) have interacted with angels throughout history. Beautiful illustrations and quotes appear on almost every page, such as this lovely one from Saint Augustine, \\"Every visible thing in this world is put in the charge of an angel.\\"<br />Author Sophy  Burnham did not grow up believing in angels or miracles, yet when she was a young adult, she watched an angel save her life. \\"I saw him the way you see the words on this page: the colors, the magnificent leap of my heart on seeing him -- HOME! cried my soul as he scooped me out of the path of death.\\"<br />Whether you talk to angels every day, or wonder whether it's possible that they could exist, A BOOK OF ANGELS is certain to become your favorite book for exploring the angelic realms!	2002-12-31
US	51273949	R2Y319Y8L5NSCW	0385501293	32883659	Teresa of Avila: The Progress of a Soul	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Fascinating Historical Account of a Female Saint	I greatly enjoyed reading Cathleen Medwick's extraordinarily detailed biography of Saint Teresa of Avila. Saint Teresa shines forth as a fascinating historical figure in TERESA OF AVILA: THE PROGRESS OF A SOUL because she seemed to have an innate ability to continually seek the highest possible spiritual path throughout her life. Whenever temptation arose, she was willing to do whatever might be necessary to right herself again -- regardless whether the form of temptation or evil took human or supernatural form.<br />Medwick maintains a detached tone throughout this riveting story, which provides one with a better idea of what it was like to live in Saint Teresa's time (with the Inquisition wreaking havoc in the lives of some spiritual people). Descriptions of how Teresa must have felt as she experienced amazing spiritual epiphanies are handled with grace and aplomb by Medwick, who shares the facts without ever stooping to speculation nor overly exalting Teresa.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone wishing to better understand what life was like for a spiritual woman in 16th century Europe whose utmost desire was to be as close to God as possible.	2002-12-13
US	51273949	R37AGIQFA3172W	0030301963	670490154	Holt Science & Technology Life Science Chapter 8 Resource File: The History of Life on Earth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Riveting First-Hand Account of Amazing Phemonena	This autobiographical account of Uri Geller's young adult years (from his birth in 1946 up until 1975) describes how he first noticed that spoons would bend in his hand, watches would speed up, and broken watches would start working again. Uri traces the cause of these unusual powers back to a very strange incident when he was just three or four years old, playing in an Arabic garden near his childhood home in Tel Aviv, and encountered a spacecraft which blocked out the sun with its own intense light.<br />Thanks to caring teachers, friends, and family members, Uri's talents for knowing what people were thinking and doing all kinds of psychokinetic &quot;tricks&quot; were understood to be very real, if also quite inexplicable. Scientists from around the world such as Edgar Mitchell, Russell Targ, and David Bohm studied Uri Geller, and through a series of rigorously scientific tests, proved to their own satisfaction that these phenomena were indeed repeatable and not the result of trickery.<br />I am especially interested in the phenomena described in Uri's first-hand account, because it so closely matches things I have experienced in my life. If you have experienced things appearing, disappearing, transforming or transporting, or have an interest in reading accounts of others who have experienced this, please visit my realityshifters.com site.<br />I give this book my very highest recommendation!	2002-12-13
US	51273949	RID0MAIY5EFJ0	093303170X	181437969	The Roots of Consciousness: The Classic Encyclopedia of Consciousness Studies	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Very Best Coffee Table Parapsychology Book!	THE ROOTS OF CONSCIOUSNESS was written by the world's one and only doctor in parapsychology, Dr. Jeffrey Mishlove. Few people are as well-connected with pioneers in the field of conciousness as Mishlove, and his lifetime of experience with psychic research is reflected in what is certainly the most complete compendium of consciousness studies ever.<br />Have you ever wondered whether people's feelings towards one another could be captured on film, or whether animals can communicate with humans? Would you like to better understand metal-bending, psychokinesis, UFOs and out-of-body phenomenons? If you answered, &quot;yes&quot; to any of the above, this is the book for you.<br />THE ROOTS OF CONSCIOUSNESS is large (wide, thick and heavy), with lots of excellent black and white photographs and illustrations, which makes it an ideal conversation-starter when placed atop your coffee table. By flipping this book open randomly to any given page, one is immediately rewarded with fascinating insights into the details of some branch of parapsychology. Mishlove's interdisciplinary expertise lends this book tremendous depth and breadth of scope, as it includes history, mathematics, physics, psychology, and religion.<br />I love the way this book is organized into several main sections which cover history, folklore, scientific studies, and theories to explain what is going on when people demonstrate extraordinary events and human abilities. I appreciate the balanced way that Mishlove covers the facts  free from hyperbole -- and the way he includes the perspective of skeptics such as James Randi along with the point of view of researchers in the field of psi.<br />While THE ROOTS OF CONSCIOUSNESS is currently out of print, it is well worth finding a copy!	2002-12-04
US	51273949	R2T6VGLEGXAWP1	0964398818	808921634	Infinite Mind: Science of the Human Vibrations of Consciousness	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Groundbreaking Work in the Field of Bioenergetics	Valerie Hunt's book, INFINITE MIND, is a classic in the field of human energy fields, or bioenergetics. The research described in INFINITE MIND is on the cutting edge of exploring what we know about human energy fields. Hunt's descriptions of experiments she's conducted with aura readers and physicists make fascinating reading. For example, Hunt shares her amazing findings in the &quot;Mu Room,&quot; in which human subjects burst into tears when the electromagnetism of the air was depleted, and regained a sense of clear thinking when the electromagnetism of the air was increased. The Mu Room is a seven foot square shielded room located in the Physics department at UCLA, where the electromagnetic energy of the air can be altered without reducing its breathability (oxygen content). Other studies examine the energy fields of healers and the people they are healing, and the energy fields eminating from our bodies independent from our internal organs.<br />INFINITE MIND is packed with gems of wisdom, such as Hunt's description of the five most commonly unintegrated spiritual experiences (experiencing a God-like energy, recalling a past life, gaining abilities to perform miraculous healings and alter material substances, acknowledging one's rage at God's apparent abandonment of us, and the Kundalini experience). INFINITE MIND is a book best read sequentially from beginning to end, since Hunt includes numerous personal experiences throughout her descriptions of scientific studies and experimental results.<br />What I most enjoy about INFINITE MIND is the way Hunt weaves together a sense of wholeness from her exotic experiences with spirit healing in foreign lands, her unceasing commitment to scientifically investigating energy fields and thought forms, and her honesty in sharing her mystical insights along the way. Seldom is a reference book as riveting and relevant as INFINITE MIND. I give it my highest recommendation!	2002-12-04
US	51273949	R2CEKFH0JL8ITF	1561709336	674444563	Power vs. Force	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Measuring &amp; Raising Energy Levels of Human Consciousness	You exist in a field of energy that is inextricably intertwined with everyone and everything else. Your energy field can serve to uplift those around you, or it can have the opposite effect and tend to weaken those you encounter. Since most people are unaware of these energy fields and their significance in bringing about miraculous changes in the world, they do not realize how they can measurably raise their consciousness, and see the world more clearly as it truly is.<br />POWER VS FORCE helps to solve the problems of confusion and negative patterns of behavior by presenting a crystal-clear model of consciousness along with a useful tool for measuring the energy levels of fields of consciousness around us. Hawkins describes how we can measure the frequencies of the fields surrounding people, ideas, and things with Kinesiology, sometimes referred to as &quot;muscle testing.&quot; When we ask questions about things that we consciously do not know the answers to, we can find out the truth that is known to the collective unconscious. As author David Hawkins explains, &quot;Everything in the universe constantly gives off an energy pattern of a specific frequency that remains for all time and can be read by those who know how. Every word, deed, and intention creates a permanent record. Every thought is known and recorded forever. There are no secrets; nothing is hidden, nor can it be.&quot;<br />The main idea in POWER VS FORCE is that when you raise the level of energy of your field, you will experience more joy and peace in your life, which in turn will help to improve the quality of life for everyone. You can learn to use Kinesiology to determine truth from falsehood, and to improve your life in every meaningful way. After years of study, Hawkins used Kinesiology to make millions of calibrations of human consciousness that follow a logarithmic progression from zero to 1,000. The title of Hawkins' book comes from the energy field where force finally yields itself to power, at 200, which also happens to be the most typical energy level currently found in most societies on Earth.<br />What I love most about POWER VS FORCE is the feeling I get as I read it that &quot;Here is a book that speaks the truth.&quot; From the very beginning, in which Hawkins describes his own spiritual experiences with miraculous healings and synchronicities, all the way to the final chapter, POWER VS FORCE presents a view of reality which consistently describes the way our consciousness effects the physical world. I give this book my very highest recommendation!ower, at 200, which also happens to be the most typical energy level currently found in most societies on Earth. <br />What I love most about POWER VS FORCE is the feeling I get as I read it that &quot;Here is a book that speaks the truth.&quot; From the very beginning, in which Hawkins describes his own spiritual experiences with miraculous healings and synchronicities, all the way to the final chapter, POWER VS FORCE presents a view of reality which consistently describes the way our consciousness effects the physical world. I give this book my very highest recommendation!	2002-12-02
US	51273949	R25B78DC8GK9U8	0865714746	642844844	A Time for Choices: Deep Dialogues for Deep Democracy (A New Dimensions Book)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	How the American People Can Build a Better America	[...]A TIME FOR CHOICES presents a remarkably clear picture of the decisions that American citizens face following the pivotal events of September 11, 2001, as well as some visions of how Americans can help create a better America.<br />A TIME FOR CHOICES was compiled from a series of forty-two fascinating interviews that \\"New Dimensions\\" radio host and founder Michael Toms conducted after September 11, 2001 with people who are noteworthy for their worldly awareness and insightful commentary. Toms organizes these inspiring interviews into chapters that explore some of America's founding principles of democracy, freedom of the press, and national security. What makes A TIME FOR CHOICES really stand out as an exceptional book, however, is the fact that it also includes discussion of spiritual issues and hopeful visions of the future.<br />I love the way I learned things in A TIME FOR CHOICES that I have not heard of anywhere else. For example, International Law professor Francis Boyle explains why the United States is obliged to resolve its dispute with Afghanistan in a peaceful manner according to UN Charter 2(3) and Article 33, and linguist Noam Chomsky describes the importance of retaining civil liberties in America. Author and world-traveler Mark Hertsgaard shows how different American media is from international media, when for example President George Bush's statement, \\"You're for us or against us\\" made headlines in France, but was buried deep inside American news reports.<br />I highly recommend A TIME FOR CHOICES to everyone who wishes to see the big picture of what is really happening in America today. A TIME FOR CHOICES should be required reading for all Americans, and for anyone interested in understanding where America is headed next.	2002-12-02
US	51273949	RN015JTVIDTZU	1561706566	497311239	The One-Minute (Or So) Healer: More Wisdom from the Sages, the Rosemarys, and the Times	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Common Sense Natural Health Tips	THE ONE-MINUTE (OR SO) HEALER is a little book packed with big wisdom concerning natural remedies for a wide variety of common ailments. Thirty-one chapters on topics as diverse as acne, allergies, arthritis, constipation, coughs, depression, earaches, fatigue, influenza, insomnia, migraine headaches, irritable bowel syndrome, pain, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), sinusitis, tension headaches, and ulcers contain a multitude of short paragraphs packed with ideas for alleviating the problem at hand. This is the kind of book that I envision a new age mother giving to her children, to remind them to remember things like \\"eat the BRATY bunch (bananas, rice, applesauce, toast & yogurt) if you have diarrhea,\\" and \\"relieve asthma by touching the pressure point in the web of your hand between your thumb and index finger.\\"<br />If you are facing menopause and are concerned with finding good replacements for hormone replacement therapy, you'll find the twenty natural remedies suggested by Dana Ullman to be very timely advice. Bee pollen, the Bach walnut flower remedy, natural clothing, spirulina and chlorella, soy, black cohosh, and dong quai are just a few of the wonderful possibilities you can try.<br />Any time you find yourself wondering how to naturally alleviate a particular health issue, THE ONE-MINUTE (OR SO) HEALER will likely be the reference book you'll want to read first. Parents, health-care providers, and people who prefer to begin their health treatments with natural solutions will adore this book!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2002-12-02
US	51273949	R12S3UW70FWVJX	0971933405	826059563	Happiness Is Free: And It's Easier Than You Think!	Books	5	122	128	N	N	A Guidebook for Those Committed to Changing Beliefs	HAPPINESS IS FREE is one of those amazing books that you either take at face value as something that will change your life forever -- or discount as \\"too good to be true.\\" It's a credit to the author, Hale Dwoskin, that this book succeeds in convincing me that when one lives in accordance with the principles outlined in this small volume, one can reap phenomenal rewards.<br />HAPPINESS IS FREE is a seven week course based on the Sedona method teachings of Lester Levenson. Readers are advised to carefully follow the suggestions of the book to read slowly, practice using the new ideas, and document daily experiences in a journal in order to allow the seemingly simple lessons to take root in the unconscious. This book reminds you that you are already a joyous spiritual being who is totally loved and loving -- and that your key to happiness is to remember and fully access this truth!<br />The main principle described in HAPPINESS IS FREE is that true happiness comes from freeing oneself from the grips of one's ego. The bulk of the book is devoted to helping you do just that -- break free of the death-grip that your ego has on your life at this very moment. A diary of progress is included in this book, along with numerous aphorisms designed as affirmations of living a spiritual life and letting go of ego-fixations.<br />What I like best about HAPPINESS IS FREE is the way it describes what it feels like to live a spiritual life. I was very glad to read the experiences that Lester Levenson shares in the beginning of this book, such as the way people offered him everything he needed with great delight no matter where he went! Those who have difficulty believing that such things could happen will likely not enjoy this book as much as those who already know that such things are not only possible, but can become much more prevalent in one's life. I highly recommend this book to all spiritual seekers who are committed to changing their beliefs and radically improving their lives.es.	2002-11-17
US	51273949	RFDS2P2B2R422	0759696616	998084467	Curing Human	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why Your Ego Can't Do What Spirit Can	M. Watkins' book, CURING HUMAN, provides penetrating insights into the reasons why ego-identification rarely turns out to be the yellow brick road to happiness it initially appears to be. Sure, the appeal of fancy clothes, cars, and other material trappings of success might seem to ensure long-lasting happiness on the surface, but rarely is the ego's promise of making people truly happy ever delivered. Watkins' investigation into the truth behind mankind's problems can seem acerbic at times as no sacred cow is left un-tipped, but the scathing critiques are an integral part of the author's intent to rouse readers out of their feelings of complacency.<br />My favorite part of CURING HUMAN is the section that outlines the differences between ego consciousness and higher consciousness. Watkins' clearly states her assertion that only when we transcend ego consciousness will we ever truly find satisfaction, happiness, and wholeness. While the ego leads us to feel empty and alone (what with all the manipulative games of deceit going on all around us), spirit provides us with the only true kind of satisfaction available. Watkins excels as describing in gory detail the myriad of trials and tribulations humans put ourselves through as we seek happiness, and how such attempts to lead non-spiritual lives typically lead down similar unhappy trails. If you've been feeling &quot;on the fence&quot; about getting more spiritual, this book may be just the thing to kick you into higher gear!<br />Members of organized religions may feel offended that Watkins' assessment of such spiritual organizations is primarily negative. CURING HUMAN will be most warmly welcomed by independent-thinkers and spiritual seekers who are interested in an in-depth expose of the pervasive cult of the ego flourishing in most western civilizations today -- and in suggestions about how we can become more spiritual.	2002-11-15
US	51273949	RW2OFFYID72BO	1931254095	349150405	The Odyssey of Enlightenment: Rare Interviews with Enlightened Teachers of Our Time	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Interviews with Non-Dualist Masters	Have you ever wondered what's really going on at those mysterious &quot;satsangs&quot; with spiritual leaders in traditions of non-dualism? While these modern-day enlightenment gurus often shun media appearances, their mystique grows. Short of joining one of their organizations, it can be challenging to find out the basis for their teachings, and whether they might be helpful in guiding one to a sense of enlightenment and spiritual fulfillment in one's life. Berthold Madhukar Thompson presents riveting interviews with twelve such spiritual teachers of non-dualistic traditions in the story of his search for truth, THE ODYSSEY OF ENLIGHTENMENT.<br />Thompson finds and shares something truly amazing and unexpected in this book -- completely unique perspectives on how one can best find joy and a sense of eternal peace. I was surprised to find so many different definitions of enlightenment in one book, as well as some rather unexpected points of view on whether or how enlightenment should even be pursued as a goal. I was glad to see that a biographical profile and photograph of each of these special individuals is included at the beginning of each section, so I got a better sense of who they are. I found the diversity of perspectives to be quite refreshing, and know that this is a book I'll be glad to refer to whenever I want to see the world in fresh, new ways.<br />Thompson is a kind and trusty guide through an exploration of the essence of reality, consciousness, and oneness. Thanks to Thompson's thoughtful observations and willingness to share his own personal experiences, THE ODYSSEY OF ENLIGHTENMENT transcends potential confusion and presents the reader with a fascinating overview of the teachings of some of the world's pre-eminent enlightenment gurus of the 21st century. This book is bejeweled with insights that can help bring peace of mind, such as &quot;thought activity is the main hindrance to realization.&quot; In addition to sharing these gems of wisdom, this book also explains how to put them into practice in one's life.<br />Whether you are curious about what's really being taught in various schools of non-duality and enlightenment, or would like specific information about Osho, Papaji, Harish Madhukar, Gangaji, Annamalai Swami, Lakshmana Swami, Ramesh S. Balsekar, Dadaji, Kiran, U.G. Krishnamurti, Andrew Cohen, and D.B. Gangolli, this is the book for you!s book also explains how to put them into practice in one's life.<br />Whether you are curious about what's really being taught in various schools of non-duality and enlightenment, or would like specific information about Osho, Papaji, Harish Madhukar, Gangaji, Annamalai Swami, Lakshmana Swami, Ramesh S. Balsekar, Dadaji, Kiran, U.G. Krishnamurti, Andrew Cohen, and D.B. Gangolli, this is the book for you!	2002-10-24
US	51273949	R35LDLIFJ2HU7U	0895949075	955046641	Pocket Guide to Celtic Spirituality (The Crossing Press Pocket Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Essential Book of Celtic Spirituality	Sirona Knight's awesome POCKET GUIDE TO CELTIC SPIRITUALITY packs a lot into one little book. You know magic is surely afoot when a 112 page book says more on the subject of Celtic mythology, gods and godesses, divination, and rituals than most of the larger books on this topic ever manage to convey. I am particularly impressed with Knight's immense knowledge on Celtic traditions, which are abundantly obvious to anyone fortunate enough to read this little gem of a reference book.<br />I especially loved reading about &quot;The Three Eyes of Kerridwen&quot;, which Knight explains is a formula for creating any pattern in magic. While it only consists of three basic steps, they are indeed the essence of all good manifestation.<br />This is the fun kind of book that's the perfect size to take with you when you travel to lands steeped in Celtic tradition -- or if you prefer, it's perfect for reading by the fire. You can then travel on the wings of your imagination to the British Isles thousands of years ago.	2002-10-24
US	51273949	R1SVOO9AG8U6B	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Me Can't Read this Out Loud Without Laughing!	My sister recommended this book to me, after she warned me, \\"It's a bit warped, because I dropped it in the bathtub when I was laughing so hard\\"!  ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY is a collection of David Sedaris' autobiographical short stories, which describe his childhood speech problems, his father's obsession with forming a jazz band with his progeny, his move to Paris with his boyfriend, and his attempts to master the art of speaking French while living in France.<br />I've been looking for years for an heir to James Thurber -- someone whose mastery of observation excels at describing everyday incidents without stripping away their intrinsically bizarre nature. I'm pleased to find this heir in David Sedaris, whose short stories are nakedly honest and touchingly fresh.  Sedaris shares things which most of us would not even write in our own private diaries, such as,  \\"Because I am both a glutton and a masochist, my standard complaint, 'That was so bad,' is always followed by 'And there was so little of it!'\\"<br />My favorite stories were \\"Jesus Shaves\\", in which Sedaris attempts to explain American Easter holiday traditions in broken French to many foreign students (and one sadistic teacher) in his French class, and \\"Giant Dreams, Midget Abilities\\", in which Sedaris takes guitar lessons from a midget as part of his father's dream of creating a family jazz band.<br />If you love humor that's as sublime as it is surreal, you'll love ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY. Sedaris and his book may be \\"a bit warped,\\" but it just doesn't get any better than this!	2002-10-24
US	51273949	R2VFRZF1G84LEX	1930722060	441937969	The Initiation	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Describing the Indescribable: A Journey to Enlightenment	If you've ever wondered what it feels like to experience divine enlightenment, THE INITIATION is the book you've been waiting for. Author Donald Schnell shares his extremely personal journey to India where he meets the immortal Babaji yogi, and describes what many would consider to be the indescribable. After all, how can one adequately convey the way the world looks when all illusion (maya) is stripped away? Yes, miracles are possible, but they are only \\"siddhis\\", or sacred gifts which are not the true essence of reality. Siddhis like manifestation, teleportation, and levitation are joyous to behold, but are not meant to distract us from seeing the miraculous nature of the universe which is present here right now.<br />Schnell not only describes the way the world looks when one feels the joy and bliss of divine awareness, but he does so in such a way that the feeling of this loving state of consciousness is bestowed upon the reader. I felt like I had received many blessings as I read this book, and I know my life will be ever the richer for it. Schnell describes many details of how it felt to undergo a very special kind of initiation from the moment when he felt suddenly called to India, to the wondrous miracles he encountered as he traveled across India, to the culmination of his trip in his initiation into the yogic order with his new yogic name, Prema Baba Swamiji. The accounts of his meetings with Babaji are a joy to read -- Babaji appears to still be in his early twenties, in spite of the fact that he's been teaching students for hundreds of years. He grants Schnell's request for a photograph of him by materializing one. He also materializes a very beautiful and sacred crystal, which is still molten-hot and malleable when it appears in Schnell's hands out of thin air.<br />While THE INITIATION is ostensibly an autobiographical account of one man's journey to enlightenment, this book is actually much more than that. THE INITIATION feels like it has been blessed to convey the inner vibration of love that Babaji and Prema Baba Swamiji wish for readers to feel and know. For when we come to recognize this state of blissful awareness, or Premananda, we realize that we, too, have made the journey to enlightenment.d to convey the inner vibration of love that Babaji and Prema Baba Swamiji wish for readers to feel and know. For when we come to recognize this state of blissful awareness, or Premananda, we realize that we, too, have made the journey to enlightenment.	2002-10-05
US	51273949	R18SU284HR5JKU	0914918966	508725611	The Secret Life of Your Cells	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Classic Experiments in Consciousness	You may have heard stories about organ recipients who took on personality characteristics of their organ donors as in the romantic comedy film, \\"Return to Me\\" -- but have you ever heard how scrapings of cells from a man's mouth reacted as he sat some distance away looking at pictures in a magazine?  Perhaps you know that dogs can tell when their owners are coming home -- but have you ever heard that plants become excited at the exact moment that their people decide to come home? THE SECRET LIFE OF YOUR CELLS describes these and many other startling research findings of polygraph expert and consciousness researcher Cleve Backster.<br />Cleve Backster's familiarity with lie detector equipment and curiosity about how plants would respond when hooked up to a polygraph have led him to discover some amazing facts about plants.  Not only do they seem to be aware of the intentions of people from a distance, but they also can tell the difference between a person simply thinking about burning a plant leaf and actually intending to set a leaf on fire.  When they are warned that cells will soon be dying in their vicinity, they do not react in alarm, but if they have no such forewarning, they react with great agitation to the unexpected deaths.<br />What is it that allows plants -- or even cells which have been removed from a plant or human being -- to know what is happening nearby?  How can simple cells appear to show some kind of primary awareness?  THE SECRET LIFE OF YOUR CELLS asks many such profound questions as it describes many of Cleve Backster's fascinating experiments.  If you have an open mind and a genuine desire to know what's going on in the world, you will absolutely love THE SECRET LIFE OF YOUR CELLS.  Seldom has one book managed so successfully to address the non-local nature of consciousness in the form of describing very concrete experiments, nor managed so clearly to convey the significance of those experimental findings in our lives.  As I read this book and mulled over the fact that all cells are aware and conscious, every moment of my life took on a fresh, new feeling of awe.<br />Part of Backster's genius as an experimenter has been his ingenuity in devising original experiments -- and another aspect of his genius has been his ability to create experiments which are capable of testing plants and cells for their awareness of their surroundings without psychically tipping them off to the intentions of the experimenter.  Backster's experiments depend upon spontaneity and real feelings (just like what happens in the real world), rather than artificial and repetitious redundancy (what most scientific researchers study).  Anyone who is seriously interested in better  understanding the field of consciousness research needs to read this classic book.  Anyone who wishes to understand what their cells are aware of needs to read this amazing book.  It will change your view of the world forever!mulled over the fact that all cells are aware and conscious, every moment of my life took on a fresh, new feeling of awe.<br />Part of Backster's genius as an experimenter has been his ingenuity in devising original experiments -- and another aspect of his genius has been his ability to create experiments which are capable of testing plants and cells for their awareness of their surroundings without psychically tipping them off to the intentions of the experimenter.  Backster's experiments depend upon spontaneity and real feelings (just like what happens in the real world), rather than artificial and repetitious redundancy (what most scientific researchers study).  Anyone who is seriously interested in better  understanding the field of consciousness research needs to read this classic book.  Anyone who wishes to understand what their cells are aware of needs to read this amazing book.  It will change your view of the world forever!	2002-09-30
US	51273949	R2536HSG29DMVX	193049100X	699594281	Matter into Feeling: A New Alchemy of Science and Spirit	Books	5	59	61	N	N	A Launch Pad for Personal Consciousness Transformation	Fred Alan Wolf demonstrates exquisite craftsmanship in his newest book, MATTER INTO FEELING, as he ties alchemy together with letters of the Hebrew alphabet and physics.  Picking up where MIND INTO MATTER left off, Wolf serves the reader thought-provoking tastes of consciousness, memory, lucid dreams, and the awesome and exhilarating concept of the &quot;One-Mind&quot;.<br />MATTER INTO FEELING is a treat for anyone who loves to contemplate ideas such as, &quot;We don't sense what we sense; we sense what we remember we sense.&quot; And this leads us to wonder how it is that we do something so seemingly simple as remember something!<br />When Wolf asks us to consider things such as how the choices we make each day are much more than they appear (since according to the parallel universes model of reality, we try all possibilities, even though we typically only recall choosing one) -- MATTER INTO FEELING becomes a launch pad for personal consciousness transformation.<br />I love the way Wolf brilliantly combines a joyful sense of wonder with modern physical theories and ancient written texts such as the Upanishads and the Qabala. Like the best kind of chef, Wolf serves up a feast which is simultaneously exotic and familiar, yet leaves anyone who tastes it feeling hungry for more. If you love both science and spirituality, MATTER INTO FEELING is one book you're sure to adore!	2002-09-08
US	51273949	R3QFFL4ZCPC1OL	0971414904	443539930	Present Moment Awareness	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Peace in the Midst of Chaos	For all of us who've ever felt we were being pulled nine different directions simultaneously like a many-headed hydra, there are times when we feel that we just can't go on any further. If we encounter just one more interruption, distraction, or frustration -- we'll snap.  Sometimes after we've snapped, we later wish we had somehow managed to hold ourselves together just a little bit better.<br />If the above feeling is all-too-familiar to you, you are in for a big treat when you read Shannon Duncan's book, PRESENT MOMENT AWARENESS. Designed to be a guide to developing awareness of living in this moment of &quot;now&quot;, PRESENT MOMENT AWARENESS is straightforward enough for anyone to quickly begin to master some powerful meditative tools. Written simply enough for any beginner to understand, yet packed with enough truth to resonate even for life-long meditators, this book truly has something for everyone.<br />I felt tremendously soothed as I read this book and did the exercises in it. PRESENT MOMENT AWARENESS offers the reader a very special and visceral sense of peace as one remembers simple things, like how to be gentle with oneself -- even in the midst of chaos. This is a very healing book for anyone who is undergoing stressful changes, and everyone who encounters stress in their daily lives.	2002-09-07
US	51273949	R36GYVHIUH0ZL0	1879181916	922540148	Animal Voices: Telepathic Communication in the Web of Life	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Learning to Listen to Animal Wisdom	If you ever wondered what your cat or dog was thinking, or wanted to know if you were actually hearing animals talk to you when you heard thoughts inside your mind, ANIMAL VOICES is the book you've been waiting for!  Author Dawn Baumann Brunke takes us on a journey to a world in which each and every one of us can learn to talk to the animals... and hear them, too.  While this book is primarily a collection of interviews with animals, there are some exercises at the end of the book which can help you get started communicating with the animals in your life.<br />Brunke began her exploration into animal communication as a detached interviewer, yet soon found herself hearing what the birds just outside her window wanted to tell her.  The birds spoke as a group, yet there was a leader who gazed into her house -- and as his flock flew away, he remained behind to finish conveying his message to Brunke.  Was she imagining things?  Could this just be coincidence -- or was she really hearing what the birds were telling her?  As further experiences proved to Brunke that she was indeed hearing what animals were saying, her continuing question and answer sessions with professional animal communicators took on much greater significance.<br />Brunke shares fascinating information from her own communications with animals, and also some rather startling interviews with horses, cats, dogs, buffalo, fish, dolphin, insects, and more.  Many of the animal messages are surprising -- such as the dog who recalls a past life as a bear, the cat from another planet, and the parrot who was once a monk.  Brunke's transformation from attempting to be an objective observer to a confident animal communicator is an inspiration to anyone who would like to learn how to listen to the animals, and she conveys the messages from animals with warmth and humor.  I highly recommend ANIMAL VOICES to every two-legged who feels ready to learn from our furry, feathered, scaly and winged friends!	2002-09-01
US	51273949	R2FFRUP3B49KH9	0060391685	291664871	Story: Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting	Books	5	82	98	N	N	The Penultimate Guide to Writing Excellent Screenplays	If you've ever wondered \\"Why aren't films very good these days?\\", you're not alone.  Most of us have noticed that most movies being released are predictable, dull, and just plain boring.  It doesn't matter that the films are packed with chase scenes and explosions -- we've seen it all before.  Robert McKee is a visionary intent on bringing fresh creativity to movies in his classic reference book on screenwriting, STORY.  He writes in the introduction to this book,  \\"But my hope for you goes beyond competence and skill.  I'm starved for great films.  Over the last two decades I've seen good films and a few very good films, but rarely, rarely a film of staggering power and beauty.\\"  He adds, \\"I've wriitten STORY to empower your command of the craft, to free you to express an original vision of life, to lift your talent beyond convention to create films of distinctive substance, structure, and style.\\"<br /><br />If you're a screenwriter or novelist, STORY is not a mere nicety, but is an absolute must!  There simply isn't any better guide to writing excellent screenplays -- and this one covers every genre and structure.  McKee is a master at the craft of coaching writers, and he excels at helping writers discover their own unique strengths and weaknesses.  McKee is brilliant at explaining something so basic yet fundamental as the difference between mood and emotion in a scene -- and ideas so subtle as getting the beats just right in a given scene.  McKee's passion for excellence and enthusiasm are contagious, and inspire me to make my writing the best it can be.<br /><br />I find myself so riveted to STORY that I feel adrenaline racing through my when I read this masterpiece.  There simply aren't enough superlatives to describe how essential this book is. STORY is the penultimate guide to writing excellent screenplays, because the only thing that is more \\"the last word\\" than this book is the attainment of perfect enlightenment. Do yourself a huge favor and read this awesome book!	2002-08-03
US	51273949	R37YA9R2ZQNG2Q	0767900340	370864937	Practical Intuition: How to Harness the Power of Your Instinct and Make It Work for You	Books	5	60	64	N	N	An Intuitive Shares Her Psychic Toolkit	Laura Day's book, PRACTICAL INTUITION, describes ways that we can develop our psychic senses and connect more clearly with the truths that are out there -- such as what job is best, what partner is best, what to do to improve one's health, and how to make better investment and business decisions. Most of us suffer from occasional lapses in what we call \\"reason\\" or \\"judgement\\", in which we ignore deeper knowledge of who we are and what we need. This knowledge is fully accessible to each and every one of us, according to Day, who provides fun and informative exercises designed to build up our intuitive talent.<br />PRACTICAL INTUITION sets itself apart from other intuition books by starting with the working assumption that we all have access to universal truths and can see the future, feel how others are feeling, and generally live our lives in mystical fashion. I love this approach to the subject of intuition, because I share these beliefs and enjoy experiencing the magic in life.<br />I love the section Day includes in this book which shows you how you can quickly help almost anyone become your own psychic guru (even when they don't think they are psychic at all) -- for those times when you need an unbiased opinion, and don't want to hire a psychic. This is a very creative technique that you're sure to have lots of fun with as you get the answers you need to those burning questions.<br />Would you like to find out how intuitive you can really be? Are you open to the possibility that you already know exactly who you are and what is best for you? PRACTICAL INTUITION picks up where other intuition books leave off, and can raise your intuitive ability to heights you never knew you could reach.	2002-08-02
US	51273949	R3K0I1TOZCIX4B	0609800116	279452224	Your Heart's Desire: Instructions for Creating the Life You Really Want	Books	5	139	142	N	N	Nine Simple Steps to Living the Life You Love	Sonia Choquette's book, YOUR HEART'S DESIRE, describes nine simple principles we can use successfully to find and follow our heart's true desires.  While each idea may appear to be obvious, most of us could use a few reminders on how to:  (1) Bring the dream into focus, (2) Gain support of the subconscious mind, (3) Imagine the heart's desire, (4) Eliminate obstacles, (5) Receive Intuitive Guidance, (6) Support the dream with love, (7) Surrender control, (8) Claim the dream, and (9) Stay true to the dream.<br />Choquette knows that we create reality, and are better off when we don't spend a lot of time and energy contemplating what we're worried or upset about.  She  advises that our dreams come true more beautifully when we travel lightly, take responsibility for our dreams, and stop being control freaks.  Choquette's many years of teaching workshops on this subject are evident in the enjoyable stories and excercises she includes in each section.  She also includes a special meditation at the end of each chapter, so readers may better absorb the ideas.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone seeking advice from a master of living life true to one's heart -- every page is a joy to read!	2002-08-02
US	51273949	R36VTGGO71J0MC	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	The Big Physics Questions Made Comprehensible	Stephen Hawking's book, THE UNIVERSE IN A NUTSHELL, succeeds in making some of the newest theories in physics understandable to everyday people.  Until reading this book, I hadn't considered what conditions would be necessary in order for our night-time sky to look completely white with stars, nor had I seen such a gorgeous depiction of the micro and macro-cosmic universe in a nutshell (cover illustration). Hawking carefully examines time-travel, predicting the future, and the shape of time after starting the book with an overview of the theory of relativity.  Hawking saves his biggest question for last, to leave readers wondering &quot;Do we live on a brane, or are we just holograms?&quot;  (A brane is something like a membrane.)<br />Thanks to stunning color illustrations and fascinating questions and ideas gracing almost every page, THE UNIVERSE IN A NUTSHELL accesses both the rational and intuitive hemispheres of the reader's brain.  It's the perfect book to unwind with after a long day -- allowing the exotic images and ideas to percolate in your mind like a delicious cup of your favorite hot beverage -- opening your mind to whole new worlds of possibility.<br />Those seeking mathematical equations to accompany their theoretical physics will likely be disappointed by this coffee-table masterpiece, as will readers who prefer to read ground-breaking books which describe entirely new theories in physics.  Pretty much everyone else will be thrilled to take a peek at the &quot;big&quot; questions and ideas being contemplated by the world's most famous physicist.	2002-08-01
US	51273949	R25RHUQEAJ47CW	1571742212	603633079	Practical Psychic Self-Defense: Understanding and Surviving Unseen Influences	Books	5	214	223	N	N	Dealing with Negative Energies ("Negs")	PRACTICAL PSYCHIC SELF-DEFENSE sets itself apart from every other book on the subject of psychic self defense by looking at the world from the viewpoint of  negative energies (or \\"Negs\\" for short). Discarnate negative energies cause a wide variety of problems in people, ranging from minor physical ailments, to obsessive thoughts and compulsively destructive behavior, to insanity, to suicide.  Mystical author Robert Bruce describes these otherwise unseen things, and describes how and why Negs attack, and ways that these attacks can often be stopped even as they are occurring (by crossing over boundaries of running water, for example).<br />Negs who are attached to a human host can (and will) strike out against the target of any negative feelings their host may have.  All the unsuspecting host knows is that they were watching television and every now and then grumbling internally about how upset they were with someone else -- but in that trancelike state, those grumblings direct negative energy towards the target!  Negs feed on such energy, and are delighted to wreak havoc and mayhem at every opportunity.  Those who dabble in black magic are often surrounded by negative energies, and any time they so much as feel angry or hurt by another, terrible things happen to the people they were upset with.<br />What I love most about Bruce's book is it's no-nonsense style.  It does not attempt to prove to disbelieving readers that negative energies exist, but rather dives into the matter at hand of what to do when demons cause mayhem in one's life. Bruce describes his favorite techniques for dealing with Negs, and describes times these methods have proven themselves effective.<br />I also love the way Robert Bruce describes failured rescue attempts -- such as a time when a priest was called in to do an exorcism for a tormented family, but was unable to prevent the parents from dying suddenly. Bruce does not attempt to sugar-coat things, or say that all cases of possession can easily be overcome! Those of us who have encountered some especially difficult cases of negative energies know this is not the case. Negs are not necessarily easy to dismiss, and definitely don't just leave when someone asks them nicely to go.<br />Bruce says it like it is, and helps us all find new ways of dealing with \\"The Dark Side\\", which I find most refreshing and wonderful!  Whether you are are skeptical about the existence of negative energies or deal with them on a daily basis, you'll find much of value in PRACTICAL PSYCHIC SELF-DEFENSE.  I give this book my highest recommendation!easily be overcome! Those of us who have encountered some especially difficult cases of negative energies know this is not the case. Negs are not necessarily easy to dismiss, and definitely don't just leave when someone asks them nicely to go. <br />Bruce says it like it is, and helps us all find new ways of dealing with \\"The Dark Side\\", which I find most refreshing and wonderful!   Whether you are are skeptical about the existence of negative energies or deal with them on a daily basis, you'll find much of value in PRACTICAL PSYCHIC SELF-DEFENSE.  I give this book my highest recommendation!	2002-07-07
US	51273949	R2BYW7G3WZBW7G	0892819073	126273016	Nei Kung: The Secret Teachings of the Warrior Sages	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Yin/Yang Energy Basic Training	Kosta Danaos continues his mission to carefully mete out  selected tidbits of Mo-Pai style nei-kung training in NEI KUNG,  the sequel to his riveting book, THE MAGUS OF JAVA.  While Danaos gladly shares the foundations for the training he received from nei kung master John Chang, he cautiously avoids providing so much information that readers working without aid of skilled trainers could get themselves into trouble (and spontaneously combust).<br />Nei-kung utilizes both yin and yang energies to sense conditions in patients' bodies and aid in healing, and can also be used for increasing one's strength and performing astonishing feats.  Yin energy is capable of absorbing energy from speeding bullets or cars, leaving human practioners unharmed.  Yang energy is noted for how hot it feels (John Chang can set crumpled papers on fire from a distance with it), and it's preference to flow upward through the body.  Nei-kung harnesses the yin and yang energies together, and requires regular meditation practice and chakra awareness to master the art of moving yin and yang energy within and beyond one's own body.<br />Danaos wrote NEI KUNG as a level two practioner of Mo-Pai, which has left matching dark circular scars about 4 mm in diameter on his palms near the pericardium meridian acupuncture points.  Danaos explains, &quot;These stigmata are essentially localized hyperemia generated by the flow of bioenergy, which the doctors monitoring me could not explain with Western medicine.  I could use those 'wounds' to feel the condition of a patient's body, sensing the flow of the ch'i throughout his or her organs and limbs.&quot;<br />Danaos is a wonderful story-teller who combines fascinating personal accounts with historical overviews and illustrations of ancient art to clarify the significance of subjects ranging from DNA to chakra knots to the warrior elite.  NEI KUNG makes excellent reading for energy practioners and armchair explorers alike who are ready to feel yin and yang energy -- and learn more about how these two work together.yang energy -- and learn more about how these two work together.	2002-07-06
US	51273949	R1DAUBFZZEEXPQ	0935621466	480183856	Awaken Healing Light of the Tao	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Advanced Chi Training for Balancing Yin & Yang Energy	AWAKEN HEALING LIGHT is written by Mantak Chia, founder and director of the Universal Tao Center.  Chia has devoted his life to studying meditation, tai chi chuan, aikido, yoga, kundalini, and many forms of inner alchemy.  Chia's books are intended to be supplemental guides to energy training, and are primarily intended for readers who are familiar with energy work.  The focus in this book is primarily on inner yin and yang breath work (nei kung), rather than outer breath work such as chi kung -- although some of these techniques are described in detail in this book as well.  AWAKEN HEALING LIGHT is one of an estimated 35 books that Chia intends to write in order to fully cover the Universal Tao system (Chia has completed more than 20 of these books already).<br />I am very pleased to see how Chia explains the founding principles of his Universal Tao system:  \\"The system I learned from my master is based on the positive energies of love, kindness, gentleness, respect, and honesty; this is the highest Chi Kung practice.  With these energies an adept can counteract all kinds of evil.  It is said that even fire cannot hurt one who has perfected their use.\\"<br />At more than 550 pages, AWAKEN HEALING LIGHT is a veritable encyclopedia of information.  It's the kind of book I like to read cover-to-cover and then return to as a reference book for refreshers on various aspects.  This book is organized into sixteen information-packed chapters which describe:  an overview of Taoist inner alchemy, the connection between chi and meditation, how to transform negative emotional energies, techniques for activating and amplifying original chi, points along the microcosmic orbit (a circular path for circulating chi in the body), the microcosmic orbit, how to work with Earth energy, how to work with Cosmic (higher self) energy, how to open the heart and practice the Cosmic inner smile, and much, much more.<br />Chia includes numerous illustrations to thoroughly clarify how to work with yin and yang energy.  I highly recommend AWAKEN HEALING LIGHT to anyone who is seriously interested in improving the energy flow in their body for improved mental and physical health and well-being and wants precise, detailed information on mastering the flow of yin and yang energy in the body.ith yin and yang energy.  I highly recommend AWAKEN HEALING LIGHT to anyone who is seriously interested in improving the energy flow in their body for improved mental and physical health and well-being and wants precise, detailed information on mastering the flow of yin and yang energy in the body.	2002-07-06
US	51273949	R31DCRFR4RQA8V	0595200893	633605005	PSI: What It is and How It Works; A Central Model for Parapsychology	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Masterpiece of Clear Thinking	For those of us who know that extra-sensory perceptions (or cognitions) and other forms of &quot;psi&quot; are real, the obvious next step in our quest for deeper understanding of metaphysics is to find workable models.  Keith Chandler's book PSI is a tour de force of insight into the inner workings of phenomena such as telepathy, precognition, clairvoyance, and psychokinesis as it presents a thoughtful and inspired model of reality that includes these &quot;psi&quot; phenomena.<br />Chandler presents the notion that remembering within the field of Cosmic Mind could well be the key to learning how it is possible for people to know what's going on in locations geographically far away, or off in the distant future.  While Chandler admits to limited experience with some of the phenomena he includes in PSI (such as future memory), he nonetheless maintains an open mind and a keen eye to correlating personal and anecdotal experiences with viable scientific theories and experimental results.<br />Written in the style of an erudite professor and packed with eye-opening references to current scientific research (from REM sleep to the honeybee's &quot;wiggle dance&quot; and remote viewing), PSI takes the reader to a place of epiphany where for at least one shining moment -- it all makes sense.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who genuinely wishes to consider new models of reality that include &quot;psi&quot; phenomena.	2002-06-12
US	51273949	R2FNPFPZ5ISEPL	1573240796	930543754	Soul Moments: Marvelous Stories of SynchronicityMeaningful Coincidences from a Seemingly Random World (Stories from the Marvelous World of Meaningful Coincidences)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Sate Your Appetite for Synchronicity Stories	Seldom does one book manage to capture the mood and feeling of the hidden energies behind the mysterious synchronicities in our lives as well as Phil Cousineau's scintillating SOUL MOMENTS.  From the first opening pages, this book transports the reader to a universe in which any and every synchronous experience is possible, and may well happen to you.<br />Just as Cousineau noted that synchronous events became much more prevalent in his life as he worked on SOUL MOMENTS, so too will the reader find these wondrous experiences begin to grace this otherwise hum-drum, workaday world.  Suddenly we discover there is magic all around us, and it's for real!<br />I would love to tell you which synchronicity stories are my favorites from this beautiful collection -- but in truth, I find them all to be sparkling in clarity and bright with inspiration.  After reading the moving accounts shared by observant individuals from all walks of life (including Larry Dossey and Huston Smith), even the smallest things no longer seem insignificant.<br />Treat yourself to a deeper view of the world that grows on you with each passing story, and get yourself a copy of SOUL MOMENTS.  This is a book you'll treasure for years to come.	2002-06-12
US	51273949	R3NP1ORAFCHZGQ	0595212999	271801083	The Path: A Practical Approach to Sorcery	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Fresh New Insights Into Sorcery, Addiction &amp; Perception	Esmeralda Arana's educational and entertaining book, THE PATH, is packed with amazing revelations about the similarities between the Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) Twelve Step Program, Carlos Castaneda's Warrior's Way, Robert Monroe's Out of Body Experiences (OBEs), and Gurdjieff's concept of hypnotic sleep.<br />What do recovering alcoholics have in common with sorcerers? According to Arana, quite a lot. The key to transforming your life is in transforming your perception of reality -- and it is essential to request assistance from both the elemental force (also known as God, or Spirit) as well as a human support group -- and then to start acting in accordance with the behavior appropriate to your new place of perception. You can change channels in your life from one reality to another just like changing channels on TV, by tuning in to a different perceptual station with sufficient energy and intent.<br />Arana clearly elucidates the striking similarities between AA's 12 step program and Toltec sorcery techniques taught by Carlos Castaneda by sharing intimate revelations about her own experiences with overcoming alcoholism. Arana also describes her fascinating experiences with lucid dreaming as she describes how difficult it could be at times to detach her energetic &quot;double&quot; from her physical body, and some of the side-effects of lucid dreaming (such as hearing voices, and knowing intimate and seemingly unknowable details about others).<br />I highly recommend this book for its excellent down-to-Earth writing, original ideas, and fascinating insights into how you can make small shifts in perception in order to make big changes in your life.  THE PATH is an intensely practical and transformative book which I'm sure I will still be thinking about months and years later, telling all my friends about at every opportunity!	2002-05-12
US	51273949	R1MGA0ZUERGOIR	0971186200	461727722	EarthShift	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What it Feels Like to Live through the End of the World	EARTHSHIFT begins with some very strange events shaking people up emotionally and physically around the world. As the earth's fundamental vibration increases from eight to thirteen Hertz and disruptions of electromagnetic transmissions begin, many people panic and are overwhelmed with fear. Only those who can remain calm in the face of widespread hysteria are destined to make a smooth transition to a new idyllic world in which amazing psychic and spiritual capabilities such as teleportation and telepathy are commonplace.<br />Judith Horky's fast-paced novel follows members of the Armstrong family as each individual comes to terms with the challenges presented to them in the transition from a world felt in three dimensions to one of fifth dimension sensibilities. Not only do people feel different when they attune their awareness to a different set of emotions (such as becoming able to commune telepathically with loved ones, dead family members, and aliens when they feel love and compassion instead of fear and outrage); they also experience a completely different world in physical form. Those who are controlled by their fears witness pillaging and looting all around, missing out on the brighter colors and fresher air in the dawning of the new world.<br />I love the way EARTHSHIFT takes the well-known concept of a transition between worlds, such as the classic story of the great flood which appears in many cultures around the world, and answers many questions about what such a transition might feel like. What is the world like when some people see only fear, destruction, and terror all around.... while others see a paradise?  How will the transition begin, and how will it end?  Will it be possible to walk between worlds?<br />While EARTHSHIFT is based upon a Christian point of view and includes quotes from the Bible at the beginning of some chapters, all readers will be able to relate to the challenges faced by the Armstrong family. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in exploring the possibilities of ascension to a higher level of awareness, or what it might feel like to live through the end times.yone interested in exploring the possibilities of ascension to a higher level of awareness, or what it might feel like to live through the end times.	2002-05-12
US	51273949	R8CELFVLLCWR7	0971186200	461727722	EarthShift	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What it Feels Like to Live through the End of the World	EARTHSHIFT begins with some very strange events shaking people up emotionally and physically around the world. As the earth's fundamental vibration increases from eight to thirteen Hertz and disruptions of electromagnetic transmissions begin, many people panic and are overwhelmed with fear. Only those who can remain calm in the face of widespread hysteria are destined to make a smooth transition to a new idyllic world in which amazing psychic and spiritual capabilities such as teleportation and telepathy are commonplace.<br />Judith Horky's fast-paced novel follows members of the Armstrong family as each individual comes to terms with the challenges presented to them in the transition from a world felt in three dimensions to one of fifth dimension sensibilities. Not only do people feel different when they attune their awareness to a different set of emotions (such as becoming able to commune telepathically with loved ones, dead family members, and aliens when they feel love and compassion instead of fear and outrage); they also experience a completely different world in physical form. Those who are controlled by their fears witness pillaging and looting all around, missing out on the brighter colors and fresher air in the dawning of the new world.<br />I love the way EARTHSHIFT takes the well-known concept of a transition between worlds, such as the classic story of the great flood which appears in many cultures around the world, and answers many questions about what such a transition might feel like. What is the world like when some people see only fear, destruction, and terror all around.... while others see a paradise?  How will the transition begin, and how will it end?  Will it be possible to walk between worlds?  <br />While EARTHSHIFT is based upon a Christian point of view and includes quotes from the Bible at the beginning of some chapters, all readers will be able to relate to the challenges faced by the Armstrong family. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in exploring the possibilities of ascension to a higher level of awareness, or what it might feel like to live through the end times.	2002-05-06
US	51273949	R3RBWDN9I65O0Y	0892818131	788281974	The Magus of Java: Teachings of an Authentic Taoist Immortal	Books	5	87	96	N	N	The Awesome Creative &amp; Destructive Power of Yin &amp; Yang	Kostas Danaos' story about THE MAGUS OF JAVA became possible when he started out on a quest to track down the man he saw in a documentary film called, &quot;Ring of Fire&quot;, who could start fires by intently focusing yin and yang energy onto a small pile of papers. I also saw this spectacular film footage, and was quite impressed by it -- it was the most memorable and amazing part of the whole film.<br />Danaos was so moved by seeing the film of the mysterious man with the pyrokinetic powers that he set out from his homeland in Greece to find him, and ask if he would accept Danaos as a student. Fortunately for us, Danaos succeeded.  His book tells the story of how the amazing Chinese-Javanese acupuncturist and martial artist John Chang came to be &quot;The Magus of Java&quot;, and includes some highly personal accounts of his early training with his neikung master.<br />Many people will be skeptical that there are individuals who can train themselves to levitate, be telepathic, and have precise control over telekinetic abilities.  If you cannot suspend your disbelief, this book might be unsettling to you.  Since I have personally experienced a wide range of rather amazing incidents (including putting my hand through several layers of clothing I was wearing to touch my own bare skin underneath), overwhelming doubt is not an impediment to my keeping an open mind about the remarkable claims made by Kostas Danaos of John Chang's abilities.<br />What sets THE MAGUS OF JAVA apart is the way Danaos presents the concept of learning to work with yin and yang energy as being the key to mastering one's ability to extend the powers of one's mind beyond one's body.  Only limited results are possible when we work with just yang energy -- while incredible things are possible with a combination of yin and yang.  The yin and yang are much like polar opposites, and when energy is intentionally allowed to flow between the yin and yang designated areas, miraculous things can occur.  I especially loved the many stories of the &quot;Taoist Immortals&quot; sprinkled liberally throughout this book, as they helped to point out that humans with god-like powers can sometimes cause as much damage as they can bring healing and good to the world.<br />While many martial arts and bioenergetic schools work exclusively with yang energy (and a few work with yin energy), there are precious few who appreciate and integrate a combination of the yin energy with the yang.  The system of neikung that John Chang teaches contains 72 levels of mastery, and the reason that only the first four are rudimentarily covered in this book is that it is extremely dangerous to practice these meditations without a teacher's guidance.  Several people died as this form of neikung was being developed by trial-and-error, since the two energies of yin and yang when compressed and placed side by side have tremendous power to destroy.<br />I give this book my highest recommendation to any serious student of spirituality, metaphysics, or the martial arts.  Reading it with an open mind will show you a world of new possibilities, and might just change your life!I especially loved the many stories of the &quot;Taoist Immortals&quot; sprinkled liberally throughout this book, as they helped to point out that humans with god-like powers can sometimes cause as much damage as they can bring healing and good to the world.<br />While many martial arts and bioenergetic schools work exclusively with yang energy (and a few work with yin energy), there are precious few who appreciate and integrate a combination of the yin energy with the yang.  The system of neikung that John Chang teaches contains 72 levels of mastery, and the reason that only the first four are rudimentarily covered in this book is that it is extremely dangerous to practice these meditations without a teacher's guidance.  Several people died as this form of neikung was being developed by trial-and-error, since the two energies of yin and yang when compressed and placed side by side have tremendous power to destroy.  <br />I give this book my highest recommendation to any serious student of spirituality, metaphysics, or the martial arts.  Reading it with an open mind will show you a world of new possibilities, and might just change your life!	2002-05-01
US	51273949	R2ABJ3JEM97I2R	1556704070	534927716	Krishnamurti: 100 Years	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Spell-Binding Biography of a Most Remarkable Man	This story of Krishanurti's life is the most fascinating and complete biography I have ever read.  It certainly helps that the book begins with intriguing accounts of Krishnamurti's unusual childhood, in which he was &quot;found&quot; by the Theosophical Society.  ... &quot;Leadbetter suddenly noticed one of the boys, outwardly a rather skinny looking little boy with a shaved front to his head and a pigtail.  He was about thirteen (actually fourteen but appeared much younger), and had a little brother with him.  He saw that around this boy was an aura of such brightness and glory as he said no one else in Adyar had, and that was so outstanding to him that he at once made friends with the two brothers.&quot;<br />Thus begins a most unusual relationship between the very young Krishnamurti and the Theosophical Society (Annie Besant was appointed guardian of Krishnamurti and his beloved younger brother one year later, in 1910.  There were many advantages and disadvantages to the transformed life Krishnamurti led, and this book covers all the most interesting facets of Krishnamurti's life with beautiful photographs, hand-written journal entries, and interviews with Krishnamurti and other great thinkers of his time.<br />This is the story of a man devoted to giving spiritual teachings -- a man who inspired many (including Bruce Lee, Van Morrison, Henry Miller, Deepak Chopra, and Joseph Campbell) with his tremendous wisdom and clarity.  Many of Krishnamurti's thoughts and quotes are included, such as, &quot;In yourself lies the whole world, and if you know how to look and learn, then the door is there and the key is in your hand.  Nobody on earth can give you either that key or the door to open except yourself.&quot;<br />I highly recommend this book, both for its exquisite attention to the details and big picture of Krishnamurti's life, and for the inspirational wisdom it imparts to the reader.	2002-04-15
US	51273949	R307ZW130246CC	1561703478	378741521	The Abundance Book	Books	5	129	134	N	Y	One of the Best Tools for Revising Your Beliefs About Money	Have you ever felt like you wouldn't have so many money issues if only you could get out of your own way?  More precisely, have you noticed that possibly it's your core beliefs about money that set you up for feeling the presence or absence of it in your life?  If so, you're fully primed for THE ABUNDANCE BOOK.<br />This book is perfect for anyone who is willing to consider the possibility that God (or divine spirit) exists fully and completely within each and every one of us, and that there is an innate energy of total prosperity implicit in this fact.  In other words, we are divine beings who deserve to live prosperous, creative, inspired lives!  If you can accept this premise into your core beliefs, and devote 15 minutes of each day for 40 days to writing down one of ten daily affirmations, you will have completed the John Randolph Price's Prosperity Plan.<br />This purse-sized book will give you everything you need to help you find the flow of money in your life, provided (1) you are willing to accept the basic premise that divine spirit is the source of money and resides within you, and (2) you are disciplined enough to spend 15 minutes each day meditating on the daily affirmations.<br />What I love most about working with this book and it's 40 day prosperity plan is that I noticed beliefs changing inside me that I didn't even know I had, until I started this program!  I love the way this book stays so positively focused on the desired outcome that it blows away any inner critic or negativity.  It's awesome!	2002-04-14
US	51273949	R274TAEMZM4KAL	1555175929	349445549	Beyond Knowing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Trusty Guide Shows the Way to Hidden Realms	BEYOND KNOWING's author, Brent Lee, is no stranger to talking with spirits. Ever since he was a child, Brent benefited from the compassionate guidance of spirits who shared insights, amazing stories, and the occasional smelly herbal potion with him.  Brent Lee's clarity and down-to-Earth practicality was clearly a great benefit to him during the many years he worked as a counselor in the US Navy, where he traveled the world and learned from a variety of spiritual teachers.  Brent shares both the teachings of his spirit guides and the wisdom he learned from people around the world in this fascinating overview of our true spiritual nature.<br />Brent Lee includes a large number of useful exercises in this book, after first presenting a historical overview for each concept.  These exercises can help you see your spirit guides, identify your dream symbols, notice what different levels of consciousness feel like, learn how to communicate psychically through the dreamplane we all share, discover how to enter the consciousness of others, practice exploring your past, view possible outcomes of the choices you make, connect with other forms of consciousness, connect with your soul, and practice telekinesis.<br />I especially enjoy reading the stories Brent shares -- such as the times he played astral travel tag with a friend of his.  He could usually catch his friend, because he did not share his friend's belief that it was impossible to walk through furniture!  Brent describes an earlier out-of-body experience in which he walked half-way through his closed bedroom door, when the thought ran through his mind that he could not walk through solid objects.  &quot;Since I was already half way through the door, I became imprisoned within the door.  For a moment, I felt fear:  how was I going to explain this predicament to my family?  Then I 'got a grip' on myself and remembered that in my spirit form, I am not limited by physical structures.  With that realization, I received a mild shock from the door as I passed on through.  In the same manner, you can pass through solid objects in your conscious state or in your physical body, or pass your hand through your 'solid' table.  The only limitation is the limitation of your own belief about your own reality.&quot;<br />I recommend this book to those who are on a spiritual path and would like to open their minds to new possibilities.  BEYOND KNOWING is an invigorating book that will help clean out any beliefs you might be feeling limited by.  I am moved by its wisdom, touched by its honesty, inspired by its integrity, and awed by its love.  I give it my highest recommendation, and look forward to reading more wonderful books by Brent Lee!mild shock from the door as I passed on through.  In the same manner, you can pass through solid objects in your conscious state or in your physical body, or pass your hand through your 'solid' table.  The only limitation is the limitation of your own belief about your own reality.&quot;<br />I recommend this book to those who are on a spiritual path and would like to open their minds to new possibilities.  BEYOND KNOWING is an invigorating book that will help clean out any beliefs you might be feeling limited by.  I am moved by its wisdom, touched by its honesty, inspired by its integrity, and awed by its love.  I give it my highest recommendation, and look forward to reading more wonderful books by Brent Lee!	2002-04-14
US	51273949	RZZCOCY50261O	0912411481	57868047	1001 Ways to Market Your Books: For Authors and Publishers	Books	5	62	69	N	N	The Classic Reference Book for Book Promotion	John Kremer hits a home run with this spectacular classic reference on how to market books.  Whether you are an author or a publisher, this book is a must!  Every useful promotional idea you might think of is included here, from the most traditional methods to guerrilla marketing techniques.<br />In fact, this book is so packed with creative ideas for marketing books that it's easy to make it part of your marketing campaign.  Everything from book cover design and redesign tips, to web site listings in directories and search engines, to getting yourself onto television programs (even news programs sell books) is covered.  Simply make a commitment to implement two ideas from this book each week for a few months, and watch your sales soar!<br />What I love the most about 1001 WAYS TO MARKET YOUR BOOKS is the way it inspires me to ask myself, &quot;What am I willing to do to promote my book?&quot;  Kremer makes the point that any good book can become successful when it is properly promoted so buyers know what it's about, why they need it, and how they can buy it.<br />If you are looking for the very best reference on promoting books, look no further.  This is it!	2002-04-14
US	51273949	R3G475EU2OYC7X	0440504708	144656419	I'm Good Enough, I'm Smart Enough, and Doggone It, People Like Me!: Daily Affirmations By Stuart Smalley	Books	5	19	21	N	N	This Book is Funny No Matter What Mood I'm In	I keep this book right here beside me in my home office, so any time I need to get perspective on life I can open it to some random page and read one of Stuart's daily affirmations.  Whether I'm in a good mood or feeling down, this book always picks me up!  Thanks to Stuart, I now know that &quot;I don't have to beat myself up&quot;, &quot;I deserve good things&quot;, and &quot;I refuse to live from crisis to crisis&quot;!  I have to keep reminding myself about that last one, because my computer connection keeps dropping out as I try to type this review.  <br />I'M GOOD ENOUGH tells the story of how Stuart Smalley (a caring nurturer and a member of several twelve step programs, but not a licensed therapist) deals with his inner critic and his dysfunctional family through the pages of his daily journal.  I won't give away the plot, but will just give you a hint that there are lots of ups and downs in Stuart's career and family which help him grow in unexpected ways (such as the day when he notes &quot;This Time I Was in Bed for Only Five Days!&quot;)<br />If you ever need to laugh with love at life's foibles, this is the book for you!  OK -- I'm not saying you HAVE to get this book, because then I would be telling you what to do.  You are in control of your own life, and things are not black and white!  So get this book if your feelings about how you feel about it feel right.  I think you'll be glad you did!	2002-04-14
US	51273949	R1ZU6G57SQIJAW	0440504708	144656419	I'm Good Enough, I'm Smart Enough, and Doggone It, People Like Me!: Daily Affirmations By Stuart Smalley	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This Book is Funny No Matter What Mood I'm In	I keep this book right here beside me in my home office, so any time I need to get perspective on life I can open it to some random page and read one of Stuart's daily affirmations.  Whether I'm in a good mood or feeling down, this book always picks me up!  Thanks to Stuart, I now know that \\"I don't have to beat myself up\\", \\"I deserve good things\\", and \\"I refuse to live from crisis to crisis\\"!  I have to keep reminding myself about that last one, because my computer connection keeps dropping out as I try to type this review.<br />I'M GOOD ENOUGH tells the story of how Stuart Smalley (a caring nurturer and a member of several twelve step programs, but not a licensed therapist) deals with his inner critic and his dysfunctional family through the pages of his daily journal.  I won't give away the plot, but will just give you a hint that there are lots of ups and downs in Stuart's career and family which help him grow in unexpected ways (such as the day when he notes \\"This Time I Was in Bed for Only Five Days!\\")<br />If you ever need to laugh with love at life's foibles, this is the book for you!  OK -- I'm not saying you HAVE to get this book, because then I would be telling you what to do.  You are in control of your own life, and things are not black and white!  So get this book if your feelings about how you feel about it feel right.  I think you'll be glad you did!<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2002-04-14
US	51273949	R1L143FM0U1ZW0	1929830025	69928542	Your Mind and Body are a Corporation and You are the CEO	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You're in Charge of MUCH More than You Realize!	You're probably well aware that plants and single cell organisms have thoughts and feelings from having read or heard about books like \\"The Secret Life of Plants\\" -- yet do you know that you have a virtual planet full of individuals hanging on your every emotion and mental direction?  The average adult is made up of 100 trillion cells, and each and every one of the cells in your body is alive and actively involved in the process of evaluating how to perceive what's happening to you right now and act appropriately.<br />Janet Buell's excellent book, YOUR MIND & BODY ARE A CORPORATION -- AND YOU ARE THE CEO is based on the metaphor of a company with various departments and a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) -- you!  I guarantee that after you've done the exercises in Buell's book, your corporal self will be feeling much healthier, prosperous, and harmonious.<br />YOUR MIND AND BODY ARE A CORPORATION is packed with fascinating concepts such as the notion that, \\"... your body has its own sense of closeness to the bodies of your sexual partner, children or parents.  The cells recognize and have great affinity for each other.  Even a divorce that you welcome may be a loss to the cells of your body who had established an intimate relationship with the body of your soon-to-be ex.\\"  Buell then provides exercises for recovering from such losses that have occurred in the past, looking to your body for help.<br />I was a bit surprised at first to find this book consists of so many blank worksheet pages, but was  delighted to discover it is designed to be a workbook you can use as you become a more competent manager in charge of all those trillions of cells.  The process of developing your managerial skills involves a great deal of two-way communication between you (the CEO) and all your cells, and Buell provides an excellent starting point.  Numerous messages are provided for you to say aloud to your cells, so they will understand your new dedication and commitment to their well-being.  You may be surprised at how exciting it feels to begin such a discussion!  If you're like me, once you get started with this two-way dialogue, you won't want to quit.<br />I highly recommend Buell's book as the perfect way to pull yourself together.  It's worth doing, if only for the fact that your cells (all 100 trillion of them) will thank you for it!well-being.  You may be surprised at how exciting it feels to begin such a discussion!  If you're like me, once you get started with this two-way dialogue, you won't want to quit.  <br />I highly recommend Buell's book as the perfect way to pull yourself together.  It's worth doing, if only for the fact that your cells (all 100 trillion of them) will thank you for it!	2002-03-10
US	51273949	R3NADL1RW4EFG6	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Opening the Door to Awareness of Time	Eckhart Tolle elegantly walks the tightwire of truth in this prescriptive discourse on finding the path of enlightenment. While wise men know that \\"truth is a slippery fish\\", Eckhart manages to sustain clear focus on the most common areas of difficulty for spiritual seekers (such as ego idenfitication with the pain-body) without getting lost in the inherent fluidity of the topic of how to be here now.<br />THE POWER OF NOW is one of those books I read quickly, feeling that I am already aware of everything it says.  I had this same response to \\"Conversations with God\\", finding that it's contents were quite obvious to me already.  I am learning that when I have this reaction to a spiritual book, it indicates the book in question is destined for greatness!  POWER OF NOW is written in layman's terms about some of the most profound metaphysical and spiritual insights.<br />If you are interested in a clearer understanding of the true nature of one of the most fundamental dimensions in your life -- time -- I could not recommend a better book to get you started on your quest!  For those interested in deepening the understanding of this most mysterious thing, I'd recommend reading one of Tarthang Tulku's excellent books on space, time and knowledge.	2002-03-09
US	51273949	RNT9F3KOQ5SP7	1577330927	533744229	Advanced Pranic Healing: Practical Handbook for Healing with Color Energies	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Focused Color Energy Healing	Master Choa's book, ADVANCED PRANIC HEALING, is a first-rate reference source for any healer doing highly specific color energy healing work. This book is ideal for advanced healers who are comfortable and experienced with doing healings and discerning a wide variety of energy conditions in people. While basic healing techniques are clearly described in the beginning, the majority of this book presumes a fair amount of experience and proficiency with color healings on the part of the reader. Those just starting out with color healing may still find this book useful, as it clearly describes what healers see and feel as they are doing pranic healings.<br />I am impressed with the breadth and depth of conditions described in this book along with their associated treatments. Everything from migraine headaches, inner ear infections, torn tendons, dislocations, to internal wounds, cataracts, kidney stones and deafness are discussed in detail. Recommendations on color density (lightness or darkness) as well as energization are given with explanations which I found illuminating and intriguing. Master Choa's experience with prana is evident throughout this beautifully written and illustrated book, leaving readers feeling inspired and well-informed. This book's index is clearly organized, so the healer can look up recommended treatments until such time as the underlying logic of it all sinks in (such as avoiding use of orange healing energies around peoples' heads, and paying attention to which way one's fingers are pointing).<br />Even though I mostly utilize universal healing energies, such as Reiki, I still find ADVANCED PRANIC HEALING immensely useful for its insights into what kinds of frequencies are best suited for various ailments. I recommend this book for anyone doing color healings, as well as those wishing to catch an intimate and revealing glimpse of the healer's world.	2002-03-09
US	51273949	R2J4E160CBXQ3T	0963294717	524856444	Seven Strategies in Every Best-Seller: A 186-Page Guide to Extraordinarily Successful Writing	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Get Ready for Greatness!	What sets Mossman's book apart from the pack is that it's the best summary of seven simple things that every best-selling book has (and that non-best-selling books lack) I've ever seen in one place.  As Mossman points out, even the best marketing plans in the world can't compensate for a book that bores readers.  Readers have straightforward expectations from books they can't put down -- and Tam does a first-rate job of clarifying what those expectations are, so any writer can begin to see their manuscript from the reader's point-of-view.<br />Mossman's enthusiasm for good writing imbues his book with a high-energy buzz that I find invigorating before each editing sessions with one of my manuscripts.  I wolfed down his book in one fast sitting, and now savor it at random points by flipping it open and contemplating anew one of his writing revelations.  The seven strategies seem deceptively simple, and in that simplicity lies elegance and the road to success.<br />I feel Mossman's book has been unfairly criticized for being less useful to non-fiction authors.  As an author of two forthcoming books, one fiction and one non-fiction, I find Mossman's points equally valid for both genres.  SEVEN STRATEGIES IN EVERY BEST-SELLER provided me with the epiphany that there is a main character in my non-fiction book, and she is ME!  This simple but powerful point is transforming my factual manuscript into a book with my story forming the main story line throughout the book.<br />I am very excited to see the huge difference in readability that my book is undergoing as I edit it using Mossman's tips and pointers -- it's had a makeover from textbook to page-turner, and I love it!<br />Whether you are staring at the first blank page of your new manuscript, or desire to make an existing book much more readable, I give SEVEN STRATEGIES IN EVERY BEST-SELLER my highest recommendation.	2002-02-22
US	51273949	R3UWE1U5KTKXA5	0935699074	880640769	All I See Is Part of Me	Books	5	63	67	N	N	A Picture Book About Non-Duality	ALL I SEE IS PART OF ME is written for the child in each of us who longs to feel a sense of wonder and mystery.  It conveys the idea of being at one with all that is -- with the plants, animals, people, Earth, sun, moon, and stars.  This story is told as a poem with beautiful full-color illustrations on every page to accompany its lyrical prose.  This book is a keeper -- one that you'll be glad to have on the bookshelf long after your little ones have grown up and moved out!	2002-02-12
US	51273949	R1PMYFYH3PYPSV	1577330722	396196441	Capturing the Aura : Integrating Science, Technology and Metaphysics	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Mapping the Human Aura	Contributing author Julia Melges Jablonski writes in CAPTURING THE AURA, &quot;Traditional science typically stands at the edge of the known world and tries to move into new territory using 'maps' of the already-conquered territory as guides.  This scientific approach tends to blind them to the potential scope of the vast unknown territory ahead.  Non-traditional researchers, inventors, and thinkers, on the other hand, tend to use a 'plane' to fly into the wilderness and then work their way back, and in the process, they create the maps for the less daring to follow after them.&quot;<br />Our knowledge of the human aura, subtle energy bodies, nadis, chakras, and acupuncture meridians has historically resided primarily with those guides we entrust to inform us:  energy healers, shamans, lightworkers, mystics, priests, and others.  Only in relatively recent years has modern-day technology allowed everyday people to begin to view the aura in much the same way that these spiritual masters have been seeing it for years.  CAPTURING THE AURA describes a variety of imaging techniques, such as kirlian photography, full-body imaging, and interactive imaging, as well as providing useful information about auric sight, breath techniques, qi, and the emotions that accompany various auric colors.<br />What I love most about CAPTURING THE AURA is the way the contributing authors each share their own areas of experience after they've &quot;flown their planes into the wilderness and worked their way back&quot; -- thereby providing readers with invaluable maps we can put together into a bigger picture.  This book contains one of the best compilations of modern-day knowledge concerning seeing and understanding the human aura with contributions from:  C.E. Lindgren, Blythe Arakawa, Jacques Beauchamp, Robert Bruce, Fritjof Capra, Guy Coggins, Ruby K. Corder, Janice Dye, Gerald Owen Grow, Arnold Keyserling, Ralph Losey, William T. McClellan, Rosalee Elizabeth McCurdy, Susana Madden, Andrine Morse, Buryl Payne, Margo von Phul, Chip Weston, and Richard Bernard Wigley.ndrine Morse, Buryl Payne, Margo von Phul, Chip Weston, and Richard Bernard Wigley.	2002-01-30
US	51273949	R1W6UAGV5UNIGS	1585420212	150097355	Energy Medicine	Books	5	177	177	N	N	Essential Energy Healing Reference Book	Donna Eden's book, ENERGY MEDICINE, is a priceless addition to any energy healer's book shelves.  In simple language with clear illustrations, Eden outlines ways to release stress, restore energies, escape the grip of fear, concentrate in the midst of fear and stress, feel joyful more often, overcome digestive problems, mend broken arms and legs, overcome nervousness, calm people (and yourself), relieve arthritic pain, relieve muscle cramps, relieve low back pain, and regain control when feeling hysterical.<br />I would be thrilled with any book that so clearly outlines techniques for helping people with such a wide variety of ailments, aches and pains, but ENERGY MEDICINE goes several steps further.  Eden describes the body's energy meridians, chakra balancing, and how to do the &quot;celtic weave&quot;.  As Eden explains, &quot;The Celtic weave, as an energy system, laces through all your other energy systems and creates a resonance among them.  It is the weaver of your force fields.  It holds your entire energetic structure together.  As an exercise, you use the Celtic weave to pulse your aura's energies outward and to strengthen them.  The exercise also connects all your energies together so they operate as a single web.  Touch one strand, anywhere, and your whole system reverberates in harmony.&quot;<br />I love the way ENERGY MEDICINE includes a vast assortment of fascinating real-life stories of energy healings that Donna Eden has been involved in, including her own recovery from being bitten by a poisonous insect in Fiji.  The shamans in Fiji treated Donna for her bite by burying her up to her neck in sand for long stretches several times over a two day period, believing the toxins would be drained into the sand.  Donna recovered her full health in Fiji, and shortly thereafter began her studies of energy healing.<br />I highly recommend ENERGY MEDICINE to anyone with an interest in energy healing.  Experienced energy healers and novices can all find much of great value in this essential reference book.f great value in this essential reference book.	2002-01-30
US	51273949	R2DOGBWPYKR5NK	0963881337	292095118	Caring in Remembered Ways: The Fruit of Seeing Deeply	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wise Words of Loving Kindness	CARING IN REMEMBERED WAYS is the kind of book I reach for when I crave nourishing insights during trying times in my life.  Maggie Steincrohn Davis' book about loving and caring for ourselves and others is true food for the soul, written like poetry.  Thirty-one graceful entries gently serve up tasty morsels of ancient wisdom (such as how to see from the heart, or face times when loved ones are dying) alongside a garnish of amusing and heart-warming personal anecdotes.<br />I love the way Maggie understands all the subtle nuances of care-giving, and the ways love can reach through any situation, when we imagine it can.  She writes, \\"Only by reaching 'beyond-the-beyond' of people -- behind their eyes, back of their pain, beneath their blaming and irritation and fussing -- do we make a path to the best in them.  Treating someone with compassion who does not treat us well in return might be our fullest offering of love, as well as our own greatest relief during the daily rounds of vigilance and giving.\\"<br />In this book, every sentence feels like a prayer and a meditation on love and compassion.  As I read each comforting entry, I find myself feeling like I'm back in the warm, sunny days of my childhood -- snugly wrapped by my mother in a fluffy towel after a warm bath.  CARING IN REMEMBERED WAYS can help brighten and warm even the darkest, coldest days in one's life.  It's the ideal pick-me-up for anyone who grows weary of caring for and nurturing others, and even oneself.	2002-01-30
US	51273949	R1QJEXJWU9PYK9	156414562X	105314843	Exploring Meditation: Master the Ancient Art of Relaxation and Enlightenment	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Blazing New Trails to Eastern Wisdom	Susan Shumsky's book goes one step further than claiming to be great for beginners -- it truly delivers.  Offering meditation for the meditatively challenged, yoga exercises for couch potatoes, karma for skeptics, prayer for the faithless and enlightenment for the ignorant -- EXPLORING MEDITATION blazes new trails into eastern philosophy that almost anyone can easily master.  Written in a clear, descriptive, straightforward style, this book opens the doors to understanding non-duality, chakras, ESP (extra-sensory perception), karma, yoga, meditation, intuition, healing, vedas, gunas, and spirit.<br />I personally most enjoy reading the sections on how to trouble-shoot one's meditation problems.  Have you ever intended to meditate, but kept finding the same tedious thoughts racing through your mind?  How about the problem of listening carefully, but not getting any clear messages?  Susan Shumsky answers all these questions and more with grace and aplomb.<br />Have you longed for a \\"Do-Nothing\\" method of meditation?  Would you like to learn the art of yogic breathing, and discover how grace overcomes karma?  Are you ready to become spiritually street-smart?  Are you interested in learning what we are made of and how we fit into the cosmos?  Do you want to discover the personal aspects of your divine, higher self?  If you answered yes to any of the above questions, you'll definitely get a lot out of this book.	2002-01-30
US	51273949	R36B2Z99S3K7HM	0440056888	817001393	Mind-Reach: Scientists Look at Psychic Ability	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Fascinating Look at the First US Remote Viewing Experiments	I am greatly impressed with how well this classic book holds up over the years.  MIND-REACH conveys the early excitement felt by researchers investigating psychic phenomena in America at the same time as it illuminates the need for careful consideration to the implications of psychic phenomena.  Numerous photographs, charts, and sketches help make the descriptions of remote viewing experiments tangible and real for the reader.<br />Authors Russell Targ and Harold Puthoff bring their experience as physicists at the world-famous Stanford Research Institute (SRI) to bear on the subject of paraphysical phenomena, and help ensure that scientific methods are followed throughout their experiments.  Targ and Puthoff are pioneers in the field of remote viewing, and many of the experiments described in MIND-REACH are classics which are frequently referred to today.<br />Many of the subjects who participated in the experiments described in MIND-REACH are well-known figures today:  Ingo Swann, Patrick Price, Uri Geller, and &quot;Jonathan Livingston Seagull&quot; author Richard Bach.  Margaret Mead wrote the introduction for this outstanding book, and Richard Bach wrote the forward.<br />It's well worth the effort to find a copy of this classic book, if you are interested in reviewing some of the original remote viewing experimental results.	2001-11-28
US	51273949	R175S5ZO6COT49	1891969269	939029655	Radical Reality: How Consciousness Transforms Itself into the Material Stuff of the Universe the Physics of Reality Has Wildly Liberating Everyday Applications	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Ultimate Reality Resides in Consciousness Itself	If you've been looking for a book that explains how what you think affects everything around you from a down-to-earth yet science-based point of view -- look no further!  McWayne's playful mind imbues RADICAL REALITY with zesty physics concepts served up with generous helpings of humor and practical applications in daily life.  Starting from the basic premises with which quantum physics rocked the world and moving forward to psychological implications of how the world changes as we change the way we view it, this anesthesiologist-turned-science-teacher drives her message home:  you can make anything happen!<br />McWayne describes consciousness as being &quot;not only implied by the equations for how the universe works&quot;, but also as being, &quot;the transcendent multidimensional source and substance of the universe itself.&quot;  If this concept is new to you, you'll find RADICAL REALITY to be a wonderful adventure, and if you already are familiar with both physics and consciousness, chances are good that you'll find this book to be scrumptious food for thought.	2001-11-26
US	51273949	RLJGWXVWL4ZGT	0140045279	441541051	Book of the Hopi	Books	5	117	119	N	N	Perhaps the Most Complete Compendium of Hopi Information	Frank Waters' excellent BOOK OF THE HOPI is probably the most complete collection of Hopi stories, language, rituals, and photographs in one place.  Waters wrote this book with assistance from thirty-two Hopi elders back in 1963.  Much time has passed since then, and while the way of the Hopi remains mostly unchanged, access to their sacred ceremonies and rituals has been greatly reduced in the last several decades.<br />While BOOK OF THE HOPI was written through the eyes and ears of an outsider, it contains much of the spirit of the Hopi, and countless fascinating insights. One such example is the explanation of how one sacred ceremony (the Ya Ya) was profaned and is no longer performed, since much of its powers were taken for evil. &quot;When you receive a wonderful power and use it for evil you lose the power. You have to use it for good to keep it.&quot;<br />I love the richness of information contained in this little book: symbols, the tablets of the clans, a glossary of Hopi words, thrilling tales about the creation of the worlds, and detailed descriptions of sacred objects such as the Paho (prayer-feather). This attention to detail is marvelous, but it's the heart of BOOK OF THE HOPI that makes me feel at home with the Hopi and at one with their spirit.<br />I give this book my highest recommendation.	2001-11-20
US	51273949	R3I1E70YMBH3V9	0595168493	946573774	The Elves of Lily Hill Farm: A Partnership with Nature	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Discovering a Universe of Intelligent, Creative Life Forms	What if we humans are not the only sentient beings in the universe, and some of those intelligent life forms are right here on Earth at this very moment? Penny Kelly addresses this question and others in her absorbing book, THE ELVES OF LILY HILL FARM.  This is the story of how she met and learned to work with and trust the elves and nature spirits on her organic farm in order to succeed in her goal of harvesting 100 tons of grapes in a season -- a truly spectacular yield.<br /><br />From Penny's first encounters with elves and devas (whom she sketches at the back of her book) to her discussions with vines, weeds, and various marauding animal nuisances -- the reader gains a sense of what it feels like to be in communication with the vast variety of intelligent life around us every day. Is it possible to communicate with the plants and animals around us? Absolutely. Is this communication a one-way street? Hopefully not! Kelly's tale inspired me to pay more attention to the way I interact with the intelligent life all around me -- being a bit more conscious to listen instead of just commanding orders of what I expect to occur.<br />I especially loved reading the comments and questions the elves posed for Penny -- including such deceptively simple queries such as, &quot;How is it ye choose among the activities that come before ye?&quot; The insights Penny gained as she found a way towards achieving balance in her life are valuable to us all, whether or not we are raising organic produce.	2001-11-20
US	51273949	RRQLPBDSJBVCN	0553345397	372273375	Hands of Light: A Guide to Healing Through the Human Energy Field	Books	5	305	312	N	N	A Classic &amp; Essential Reference Book	I consider HANDS OF LIGHT to be an essential reference book for anyone who is seriously interested in exploring energy healing.  I am impressed with the way author Barbara Ann Brennan describes her early childhood experiences of sensing energy fields around trees and all living things, and even more impressed that after many years of training in physics and western ways of scientism, she never lost her inner sense of knowing.<br />HANDS OF LIGHT includes many pictures of auras and chakras, which serve to illustrate her points about how to identify common personality types and relationship types based on her in-depth personal healing experiences.  Brennan also proceeds to explain how to help improve one's health by working on one's energy field.<br />Full enjoyment of HANDS OF LIGHT requires that the reader either have an open mind regarding the fact that many people can see auras and chakras, or the ability to see these things oneself.  Brennan provides exercises to help people learn how to see energy fields, so any reader with a sincere interest in the subject of energy healing will most likely be very satisfied with this classic book.	2001-11-20
US	51273949	RGHIB88CJF88F	0062504061	494551444	Soul Retrieval: Mending the Fragmented Self Through Shamanic Practice	Books	5	9	12	N	N	How to Bring Back Lost & Stolen Soul Fragments	Author Sandra Ingerman shares ancient soul-retrieval practices in<br />very down-to-Earth terms in her pioneering book, SOUL RETRIEVAL.<br />While the requirements for doing successful shamanistic healing<br />are simple (requiring crystal-clear intention and complete faith<br />in spiritual assistance), many of us raised within modern-day<br />Western society are likely to face our own inner skepticism that<br />this method of healing can be effective. Ingerman masterfully<br />addresses this and other common pitfalls, as it takes the reader<br />on a journey of rescuing soul fragments from one's past.<br />We often become physically ill following loss of soul or<br />diminishment of essential spiritual energy, so soul retrieval is<br />a healing art for one's entire being. Ingerman explains, \\"If the<br />soul totally vacates the patient, the patient will die. It follows<br />that, if the shaman can retrieve the lost soul parts, the individual<br />can be restored to harmony and well-being. This retrieval is done<br />by the shaman in an altered state of consciousness.\\"<br />SOUL RETRIEVAL contains case studies of Ingerman's involvement<br />with numerous patients who have requested her assistance, as well<br />as fascinating historical background on the ancient shamanic art<br />of soul retrieval. Those who have undergone soul retrieval therapy<br />claim as the author herself asserts, \\"Having my own lost soul parts<br />restored to me brought me back to a place of wholeness. I<br />experienced the fullness of life and a joy that I had not been sure<br />I would ever feel again.\\"<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in healing,<br />shamanism, psychology, or consciousness.<br />-- Cynthia Sue Larson<br />author of AURA ADVANTAGE: How the Colors in Your Aura Can Help You Attain What You Desire and Attract Success	2001-11-12
US	51273949	R3P5LB15PL6FUG	0062504061	494551444	Soul Retrieval: Mending the Fragmented Self Through Shamanic Practice	Books	5	132	138	N	N	How to Bring Back Lost &amp; Stolen Soul Fragments	Author Sandra Ingerman shares ancient soul-retrieval practices in very down-to-Earth terms in her pioneering book, SOUL RETRIEVAL.  While the requirements for doing successful shamanistic healing are simple (requiring crystal-clear intention and complete faith in spiritual assistance), many of us raised within modern-day Western society are likely to face our own inner skepticism that this method of healing can be effective.  Ingerman masterfully addresses this and other common pitfalls, as it takes the reader on a journey of rescuing soul fragments from one's past.  <br />We often become physically ill following loss of soul or diminishment of essential spiritual energy, so soul retrieval is a healing art for one's entire being.  Ingerman explains, &quot;If the soul totally vacates the patient, the patient will die.  It follows that, if the shaman can retrieve the lost soul parts, the individual can be restored to harmony and well-being.  This retrieval is done by the shaman in an altered state of consciousness.&quot;  <br />SOUL RETRIEVAL contains case studies of Ingerman's involvement with numerous patients who have requested her assistance, as well as fascinating historical background on the ancient shamanic art of soul retrieval.  Those who have undergone soul retrieval therapy claim as the author herself asserts, &quot;Having my own lost soul parts restored to me brought me back to a place of wholeness.  I experienced the fullness of life and a joy that I had not been sure I would ever feel again.&quot;<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in healing, shamanism, psychology, or consciousness.	2001-11-09
US	51273949	R2WZ9GCCJJDRM0	0875420281	42516745	Animal-Speak: The Spiritual & Magical Powers of Creatures Great & Small	Books	5	46	53	N	N	Understanding Animal Wisdom	Whether you see animals in real life or just in your dreams, they are communicating with you.  Ted Andrews' enchanting book, ANIMAL-SPEAK, is the best reference book to such animal messages that I've seen.  While not all animals are included in the book (that would require a HUGE book!), this book certainly does contain very relevant information about a large number of creatures.  The author's love of animals is clear from the start, and he provides fascinating tid-bits of little-known information as well as numerous personal anecdotes.<br />Whether you've been wishing you could understand those perplexing dreams with animals, if you want to choose an animal totem, or if you're ready to start practicing shape-shifting into animal form -- this book is just what you've been waiting for!	2001-11-08
US	51273949	RIG2LHLQBHREO	0964263742	237084021	Science and Human Transformation: Subtle Energies, Intentionality and Consciousness	Books	5	76	79	N	N	How to See the Unseeable &amp; Know the Unknowable	Dr. Tiller's excellent book, SCIENCE AND HUMAN TRANSFORMATION, boldly goes where few books dare to enter.  Tiller presents a fascinating model of our universe as being multi-dimensional with a spiritual component.  This book will likely be enjoyed most by readers who have experienced psychic or psycho-kinetic events in their lives, and are seeking a rational explanation for what might be going on.  Those who have not yet had such experiences may not be convinced that such things exist -- even after reading Tiller's fascinating account of how he created a gas-discharge device in the 1970's while he was a professor at Stanford University which demonstrated that &quot;anyone could produce a positive (psychokinetic) result&quot;.<br />SCIENCE AND HUMAN TRANSFORMATION is a joy to read for anyone who loves to play with new ideas and theories.  It contains a wealth of schematic diagrams, charts, equations and references to support the theories Tiller presents.  This book will most appeal to readers who love books they can ponder for some time, as it is packed with such ideas as:  sensory arrays, etheric light cones, nodal networks and holograms.<br />The main point of SCIENCE AND HUMAN TRANSFORMATION is that the component of mind and consciousness has long been excluded from scientific study, and even omitted from Theories Of Everything (TOEs).  Obviously, if we're going to have a theory of everything it had better include consciousness!  Tiller knows this quite well, and artfully constructs a bridge for future scientists with open minds to cross over to a place where unseen things (such as human energy fields) have huge effects.  If we want to know what has eluded us for so long, we need to go to the very places which are currently least well understood.  SCIENCE AND HUMAN TRANSFORMATION provides a sturdy bridge for us to reach those previously unknown places.	2001-11-08
US	51273949	R1J917EXGY27YV	0964576600	578571900	Healing with the rainbow rays: The art of color energy therapy	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Every Energy Healer Needs this Book!	Don't let the title of HEALING WITH THE RAINBOW RAYS mislead you -- there is much more than just color therapy involved here. Alijandra has done an excellent job of bringing several different healing techniques (color, sound, crystals, herbs, movement) together in one ambitious reference book. The basic techniques of grounding, balancing, protection, and clearing energy are described, as are the chakra and endocrine system. Additionally, the essential art of dealing with psychic hooks and chakra blocks are included.<br />I was delighted to be able to make immediate use of the concept of working with the rainbow rays of color for self-healing. In just a few minutes, with the aid of a simple color visualization technique, I cleared out a long-standing pattern of fear which had resided in the cells of my body for most of my life (a kind of background noise that I had become accustomed to). I'm grateful to have noticed tremendous and lasting improvement from such a simple exercise.<br />HEALING WITH THE RAINBOW RAYS is valuable for healers of every level of experience, since Alijandra takes care to explain basic terms and also outline some rather advanced exercises such as: time travel, teleportation, levitation, invisibility, and shapeshifting. Another unexpected surprise about this book is it's coverage of the &quot;black ray&quot; -- an often overlooked color in healing.<br />I recommend this book to anyone with an open mind to seeing the world in new ways, and most especially to anyone who wishes to heal themselves or others.	2001-10-22
US	51273949	R15G6UIGTLYEHC	0826318932	334129912	The Gift of Life: Female Spirituality and Healing in Northern Peru (Studies in Modern German Literature)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Contemporary Women Healers in Peru	Prior to THE GIFT OF LIFE, little had been written about the role women play in healing and shamanism in Northern Peru. Part of the reason for this oversight had to do with the way European colonization brought the concept of &quot;witchcraft&quot; to Peru, and the fact that Peruvian women who practiced traditional healing arts were frequently beaten and tortured until they confessed to standard European-style &quot;witchcraft&quot; practices. Author Bonnie Glass-Coffin was trained as an anthropologist, so she knew that women have historically played a large part in shamanism from looking at the ancient sculptures of the Moche and Chimu, which both portray women involved in healing arts. With the intention to find and interview modern-day women shamans in Peru, Glass-Coffin set out to do exactly that.<br />Bonnie Glass-Coffin shares the stories from five female curanderas (shamans) she met with between April 1988 and September 1989. Her extraordinary book, THE GIFT OF LIFE, describes the daily life of these female curanderas and the story of how they became healers, and includes black and white photographs of their mesas (curing altars) and healing herbs (plants such as the San Pedro cactus). Glass-Coffin's background in anthropology and her accounts of her experiences living in Peru as she grew up give this book a unique feeling of personal relevance and social perspective.<br />I was impressed that THE GIFT OF LIFE does not shy away from describing the ways curanderas have used their spiritual powers on some occasions for sorcery. Glass-Coffin describes &quot;dano&quot; as intended harm by sorcery, and tells stories and includes pictures of how Peruvians have discovered and dealt with the harmful magic of others. She also describes some of the differences between male and female healers in Peru -- such as the way female curanderas tend to involve patients more directly in their healing. I was also impressed that Glass-Coffin described her own personal involvement being healed by curanderas, giving this book tremendous warmth. The first-hand accounts of what it feels like to suffer as the recipient of a dano help the reader better understand the way our thoughts and feelings affect one another.<br />I give this book my highest recommendation to anyone who is interested in ancient traditional ways of healing, wishes to know what is unique about women healers, and is intrigued by reading stories about how our thoughts and feelings affect others.t being healed by curanderas, giving this book tremendous warmth. The first-hand accounts of what it feels like to suffer as the recipient of a dano help the reader better understand the way our thoughts and feelings affect one another. <br />I give this book my highest recommendation to anyone who is interested in ancient traditional ways of healing, wishes to know what is unique about women healers, and is intrigued by reading stories about how our thoughts and feelings affect others.	2001-10-22
US	51273949	RXCB5EGD4GV6Y	0892814594	433363675	The World Is As You Dream It: Teachings from the Amazon and Andes	Books	5	17	19	N	N	To Create a New World, We Must Create a New Dream	John Perkins' book, THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is one of those rare books that tells a riveting story at the same time as it provides deep insights into what makes us who we are and the world what it is. I was so riveted to this book that I couldn't put it down for a second until I finished reading it.<br />The big idea in THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is outlined by shamans in Ecuador who describe to Perkins the difference between living one's fantasies and living one's dream -- and how this difference has enormous personal and global repercussions. Healing involves changing one's dream; replacing a dream of illness with one of health. As one shaman tells Perkins, &quot;I don't heal. I simply help them change their dream.&quot;<br />Perkins has been bringing people to learn from native shamans for many years -- living true to a desire he had since childhood to see indigenous peoples teach westerners their ways, and in so doing, change the course of history. Shamans have a strong need to change things, and Perkins does a fabulous job of describing some of his experiences visiting native shamans in Ecuador who demonstrate their healing and psychonavigation skills. A doctor who was part of Perkins' group was certain she died after ingesting ayahuasca (also known as &quot;vine of the soul&quot;, or &quot;vine of death&quot;) -- and she was also certain that a Shuar shaman brought her back to a healthy body by sucking the toxins from her and vomiting them nearby.<br />What impresses me most about THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is the way Perkins illuminates the big picture of what humans are doing on Earth at the same time as he shares moving personal accounts of people who come to the Amazon and Andes to receive healings and gain vision in their lives. We are all interconnected, and dreaming this dream together... and we change this world by changing our perceptions. Dream change is an essential skill that everyone concerned with the future of humans on Earth has a vested interest in, and that we all can learn.<br />If you are ready to journey to a place where &quot;what we dream, happens&quot;, this is the book for you!ested interest in, and that we all can learn. <br />If you are ready to journey to a place where &quot;what we dream, happens&quot;, this is the book for you!	2001-10-22
US	51273949	R2NSI1GD1K9O05	0892814594	433363675	The World Is As You Dream It: Teachings from the Amazon and Andes	Books	5	60	62	N	N	To Create a New World, We Must Create a New Dream	John Perkins' book, THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is one of those rare books that tells a riveting story at the same time as it provides deep insights into what makes us who we are and the world what it is.  I was so riveted to this book that I couldn't put it down for a second until I finished reading it.<br />The big idea in THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is outlined by shamans in Ecuador who describe to Perkins the difference between living one's fantasies and living one's dream -- and how this difference has enormous personal and global repercussions.  Healing involves changing one's dream; replacing a dream of illness with one of health.  As one shaman tells Perkins, &quot;I don't heal.  I simply help them change their dream.&quot;  <br />Perkins has been bringing people to learn from native shamans for many years -- living true to a desire he had since childhood to see indigenous peoples teach westerners their ways, and in so doing, change the course of history.  Shamans have a strong need to change things, and Perkins does a fabulous job of describing some of his experiences visiting native shamans in Ecuador who demonstrate their healing and psychonavigation skills.  A doctor who was part of Perkins' group was certain she died after ingesting ayahuasca (also known as &quot;vine of the soul&quot;, or &quot;vine of death&quot;) -- and she was also certain that a Shuar shaman brought her back to a healthy body by sucking the toxins from her and vomiting them nearby.  <br />What impresses me most about THE WORLD IS AS YOU DREAM IT is the way Perkins illuminates the big picture of what humans are doing on Earth at the same time as he shares moving personal accounts of people who come to the Amazon and Andes to receive healings and gain vision in their lives.  We are all interconnected, and dreaming this dream together... and we change this world by changing our perceptions.  Dream change is an essential skill that everyone concerned with the future of humans on Earth has a vested interest in, and that we all can learn.  <br />If you are ready to journey to a place where &quot;what we dream, happens&quot;, this is the book for you!	2001-10-17
US	51273949	RIGRIZ6XWIBW1	0826318932	334129912	The Gift of Life: Female Spirituality and Healing in Northern Peru (Studies in Modern German Literature)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Contemporary Women Healers in Peru	Prior to THE GIFT OF LIFE, little had been written about the role women play in healing and shamanism in Northern Peru.  Part of the reason for this oversight had to do with the way European colonization brought the concept of &quot;witchcraft&quot; to Peru, and the fact that Peruvian women who practiced traditional healing arts were frequently beaten and tortured until they confessed to standard European-style &quot;witchcraft&quot; practices.  Author Bonnie Glass-Coffin was trained as an anthropologist, so she knew that women have historically played a large part in shamanism from looking at the ancient sculptures of the Moche and Chimu, which both portray women involved in healing arts.   With the intention to find and interview modern-day women shamans in Peru, Glass-Coffin set out to do exactly that.  <br />Bonnie Glass-Coffin shares the stories from five female curanderas (shamans) she met with between April 1988 and September 1989.  Her extraordinary book, THE GIFT OF LIFE,  describes the daily life of these female curanderas and the story of how they became healers, and includes black and white photographs of their mesas (curing altars) and healing herbs (plants such as the San Pedro cactus).  Glass-Coffin's background in anthropology and her accounts of her experiences living in Peru as she grew up give this book a unique feeling of personal relevance and social perspective.<br />I was impressed that THE GIFT OF LIFE does not shy away from describing the ways curanderas have used their spiritual powers on some occasions for sorcery.  Glass-Coffin describes &quot;dano&quot; as intended harm by sorcery, and tells stories and includes pictures of how Peruvians have discovered and dealt with the harmful magic of others.  She also describes some of the differences between male and female healers in Peru -- such as the way female curanderas tend to involve patients more directly in their healing.  I was also impressed that Glass-Coffin described her own personalinvolvement being healed by curanderas, giving this book tremendous warmth.  The first-hand accounts of what it feels like to suffer as the recipient of a dano help the reader better understand the way our thoughts and feelings affect one another.<br />I give this book my highest recommendation to anyone who is interested in ancient traditional ways of healing, wishes to know what is unique about women healers, and is intrigued by reading stories about how our thoughts and feelings affect others.	2001-10-17
US	51273949	R2XFUIB0Q73S02	0964576600	578571900	Healing with the rainbow rays: The art of color energy therapy	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Every Energy Healer Needs this Book!	Don't let the title of HEALING WITH THE RAINBOW RAYS mislead you -- there is much more than just color therapy involved here. Alijandra has done an excellent job of bringing several different healing techniques (color, sound, crystals, herbs, movement) together in one ambitious reference book. The basic techniques of grounding, balancing, protection, and clearing energy are described, as are the chakra and endocrine system. Additionally, the essential art of dealing with psychic hooks and chakra blocks are included.<br />I was delighted to be able to make immediate use of the concept of working with the rainbow rays of color for self-healing. In just a few minutes, with the aid of a simple color visualization technique, I cleared out a long-standing pattern of fear which had resided in the cells of my body for most of my life (a kind of background noise that I had become accustomed to). I'm grateful to have noticed tremendous and lasting improvement from such a simple exercise. <br />HEALING WITH THE RAINBOW RAYS is valuable for healers of every level of experience, since Alijandra takes care to explain basic terms and also outline some rather advanced exercises such as: time travel, teleportation, levitation, invisibility, and shapeshifting. Another unexpected surprise about this book is it's coverage of the &quot;black ray&quot; -- an often overlooked color in healing.<br />I recommend this book to anyone with an open mind to seeing the world in new ways, and most especially to anyone who wishes to heal themselves or others.	2001-10-17
US	51273949	R3SNW1TWIJWIOL	0892818654	237431471	Spirit of the Shuar: Wisdom from the Last Unconquered People of the Amazon	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Spell-binding Wisdom from Amazonian Shapeshifters	My hopes were very high when I began reading SPIRIT OF THE SHUAR, because I've read and loved other books by John Perkins. I was surprised and delighted to find that this book far surpassed all my expectations! I found it to be especially intriguing, because it was written in large part by the Shuar themselves.<br />The Shuar share their wisdom about how they dream the world, talk with the dead, balance the needs of men and women, keep peace and wage war, practice the ancient art of shamanic journeying, and learn from the sacred teacher plants (ayahuasca, datura, chicha, and tobacco) in the Amazon jungle they inhabit. The Shuar tell their legends and personal stories about living in the jungle in this book in such a conversational style that I feel I am sitting among them.<br />After reading this book, I feel I can understand why people take psychotropic plants in order to better understand their unique place in this world. I also find myself feeling deeply touched by the way the Shuar have long reached out to others in different societies to form special bonds of friendship and cooperation. The obvious sincerity with which the Shuar express themselves comes shining through in this book. It is quite convincing to me and helps open my mind to every topic they discuss, even subjects that surprise me, such as: head-hunting, marital relationships, or how they share wisdom from the teaching plants with their hunting dogs and children.<br />Anyone interested in indigenous wisdom, different ways of living, or shapeshifting will definitely be fascinated by this excellent book by John Perkins and Shuar shapeshifter Chumpi. SPIRIT OF THE SHUAR is a masterpiece that lives on in one's heart for a lifetime.	2001-09-21
US	51273949	R3P6J7LYQ7SJMA	0963293400	291428766	The Evolving Human	Books	5	44	44	N	N	A Bright Path Through the Forest of Kundalini Awakening	THE EVOLVING HUMAN is a fascinating account of Penny Kelly's kundalini awakening in 1979. I love the way Kelly shares the full breadth and depth of her highly personal experience, and the way she describes the many varied effects of kundalini (such as heightened sensory and extra-sensory awareness). In sequential fashion, Kelly tells the story of how she first entered the realm of &quot;I AM&quot; knowingness, and how she gradually began to feel and appreciate the way her kundalini experience sensitized her to the world.  Little by little, Kelly found herself learning to use the great power and wisdom conferred by kundalini, even as her rational mind continued to search for answers and a deep understanding of what had happened to her.  In addition to providing a personal record of kundalini awakening, THE EVOLVING HUMAN also has a series of appendixes which provide a description of the stages of human spiritual evolution, and some useful pointers for analyzing dreams, and improving one's telepathic skills.<br />In one of the most fascinating parts of this book, Kelly describes how she lived through a period of time in which she felt herself living out two future paths along with her normal day-to-day life. One was much &quot;safer&quot; yet ultimately less satisfying, while the other was more true to living up to her full spiritual potential. She chose the path of fulfilling her potential, and I am certain that the world is a much better place for it! Kelly now lives at Lily Hill Farm in Michigan, where she teaches classes about developing intuition as she works in the gardens, barns, and kitchens. THE EVOLVING HUMAN began as a series of hand-outs for these classes, and due to popular demand grew into this beautiful book.<br />My kundalini awakening took place in 1994, and many things Kelly describes in THE EVOLVING HUMAN remind me of experiences I've lived through. How wonderful it is to have this book at one's side, as reassurance that kundalini is a normal part of the process of human spiritual evolution. I give this book my highest recommendation for anyone who wishes to better understand how the kundalini experience transforms one's life.f the process of human spiritual evolution. I give this book my highest recommendation for anyone who wishes to better understand how the kundalini experience transforms one's life.	2001-09-10
US	51273949	R2YT4XSZ6ZRPYB	0595144144	987792572	Manifesting 101 & Beyond: How to Get What You WantWithout Goofing it Up First!	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Creating Your Ideal Life With Love and Joy	MANIFESTING 101 is a collection of uplifting short essays that are as easy, fun, and entertaining to read as they are informative.  Susan James and six contributors (William Wayne Barnes, Kristen Fox, Tom Haskins, Carol James, Jeri Noble, and John Welsh) share their personal accounts and tips of how they create their lives out of love and joy, rather than feelings of constant struggle and a sensation of being overwhelmed.<br />James provides playful tools for mastering the requisite skills of reality creation, such as focusing on one's desire for at least seventeen seconds (try writing out it three times with your non-dominant hand). Going beyond the &quot;law of attraction&quot; whereby the universe brings more of what resonates with what we are emoting right to us, MANIFESTING 101 moves on to cover the &quot;laws of allowing&quot;, and &quot;laws of deliberate creation&quot;. Can we bring anything we truly desire into our lives? The answer is a resounding, &quot;YES!&quot; when we choose to feel good FIRST, and then allow the universe's generous gifts to stream into our lives.<br />I especially enjoy reading the personal accounts of manifestation in MANIFESTING 101. These true stories provide heart-warming and often humorous descriptions of how we can all learn to get out of our own way when we are creating lives we love. This is more than just an excellent book to read, it's a book you'll be glad to live your life by!	2001-07-08
US	51273949	R13NC42HOBIZHG	0969755147	603544867	Mind Power into the 21st Century: Techniques to Harness the Astounding Powers of Thought	Books	5	85	91	N	N	An Essential Manifestation Primer	What would your life be like if all those annoying obstacles and problems were cleared away, and you could be and do anything you most desired?  John Kehoe asserts that when we spend just five minutes a day, each and every day, concentrating on how that's a done deal and feeling our joy at our accomplishments, this will indeed be true!  As Kehoe succinctly states, &quot;Consciousness creates reality, and you create consciousness.&quot;<br />MIND POWER is so clear and straightforward that you can read it in a day, and then come back to review the exercises in each chapter as you work on refining your mind power skills.  Kehoe's book is chock-full of creative insights into how you can see your unconscious patterns of thoughts at work, and begin to turn your life around by changing what and how you think.  Kehoe explains how good health, a successful career, exciting vacations, a beautiful home and rewarding personal relationships are just a few of the things you can bring into your life by mastering MIND POWER techniques.<br />One of the clearest examples of how Kehoe elucidates the otherwise complex subject of how we create reality with consciousness is the way he describes prosperity consciousness.  Kehoe isolates the four main prosperity beliefs, and outlines them so clearly that the reader's own path to prosperity shines like a road paved with gold!  (It's an abundant universe, life is fun and rewarding, there are staggering numbers of opportunities in every aspect of my life, and it is my responsibility to be successful.)<br />Kehoe reminds us, &quot;Every person is a star&quot;.  After reading MIND POWER, I FEEL like a star!	2001-07-08
US	51273949	R3IPE7RJ28FSZ8	1571741941	92563499	Excuse Me, Your Life is Waiting : The Astonishing Power of Feelings	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	Turn Your Life Around For the Better -- Right Now!	Lynn Grabhorn answers the age-old question, &quot;What makes our lives turn out the way they do?&quot; with a surprisingly simple answer... it's all in the way we FEEEEEL!  We've been taught backwards -- we've learned to forcefully push forward like the Lone Ranger riding off at full gallop to get what we want in life.  This lone ranger approach usually serves to exhaust us while making little headway into bringing the things we wish we had to us (such as good health, a loving home, fulfilling relationships, rewarding work, and money).<br />&quot;Yes, yes&quot;, you may reply, &quot;That all sounds great, but I've tried similar things before, and never noticed a difference&quot;.  You'll be glad to know that EXCUSE ME, YOUR LIFE IS WAITING is written just for you!  It's packed with pointers for how to break through your own unique barriers to a life of well-being, as well as real-life examples of what a difference our feelings make based on Grabhorn's own fascinating life story.  What makes Grabhorn's book so compelling is that she describes the tale of her own transformation. Grabhorn was once proficient at making things happen with hard work, perspiration, and ever-vigilant worry -- and has become a woman who starts out by feeling love and appreciation, and who has now become healthy and prosperous in every way.<br />How fast can you expect to see results?  Grabhorn outlines a 30 day program, by which she changed her own life from focusing on energy-draining feelings to flip-switching over to appreciate the good things in life.  All we have to do is follow the four main steps:  identify what we don't want, identify what we DO want, find the feeling place of our want, and expect the universe to deliver.	2001-07-08
US	51273949	R6QSCOTTQXCKW	0684801620	959540195	Divine Revelation	Books	5	44	45	N	N	How to Hear and Trust the Still Small Voice Within	Do you remember the most recent time you needed help making an important decision, and wished you could have gotten some really good advice?  Perhaps you tried hearing the &quot;little voice&quot; of intuition, but weren't sure whether you were hearing the best advice for you to follow... or perhaps you couldn't hear anything at all.<br />Not to worry!  Susan Shumsky's wonderful book, DIVINE REVELATION, describes how to find deeply meaningful answers to all your questions -- as well as how you can follow nine steps of discernment to ensure that the voice of intuition you hear is a true message from Spirit.  She lists eleven safeguards to ensure you receive divine messages, as well as signals for healing and &quot;yes&quot; and &quot;no&quot; responses, and fourteen steps for receiving clear answers.  Shumsky also describes how to word your questions for Spirit, so you will gain maximal benefit from the answers you receive.<br />The basic premise of Shumsky's book is that we can receive information and inspiration simply by asking for it, so she provides mediations and prayers to help get us started.  Shumsky recommends that healing prayers be utilized often, since they are essential for clearing out negative habits, thoughts, feelings, and psychic ties to others before we attempt to clearly receive spiritual messages.<br />Whether you have never before received messages from Spirit or are quite adept at it, DIVINE REVELATION is jam-packed with wonderful ideas to help you receive information more clearly than ever before.  There is a tremendous emphasis on self-knowledge in this book, so those who are willing and eager to look more deeply at themselves will likely enjoy it the most.	2001-06-07
US	51273949	RUUXKFZ6RWVSD	0789467682	812634550	Divine Intuition	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Divine Assistance to Help Create a Life You Love	DIVINE INTUITION is a total sensory delight!  From the velvety soft feel of the book's jacket to the beautiful pictures and inspirational quotes, Lynn Robinson's book is a joy to read from cover to cover.  Robinson's playful sense of humor (&quot;... you may begin to wish that God's call came with Caller I.D.!&quot;) brings the lofty ideas of talking to God right down to Earth, and her experience helping people learn to listen to divine intuition is evident from the exercises, questions, and stories in her book.<br />The big ideas in DIVINE INTUITION may take a while to grab you, but you'll know it when they do!  This book is the perfect tool for change for anyone who longs to turn their life around, but doesn't know quite where to start... or for those who are facing difficult choices and wish there was a clear-cut best answer.  While Robinson does not guarantee that you'll soon be hearing God's voice telling you exactly what to do next, she does suggest that we don't need to postpone our happiness.  When we listen to our heart and hear what it has to say, we'll feel inspired to do and be what we most love.	2001-06-07
US	51273949	REGDXWY48T8VI	1580630898	375690641	Divine Guidance: How to Have a Dialogue with God and Your Guardian Angels	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Everyone Can Talk with God and See Angels	Have you ever wondered how easy it could be to talk with God, or wished you could see and hear angels?  If so, DIVINE GUIDANCE is the book for you!<br />Doreen Virtue makes readers feel instantly at home as she explains in simple language how all of us can communicate directly with God in her beautiful book, DIVINE GUIDANCE.  Virtue describes how to discern true guidance when we receive it, and provides examples of how to know it when we've got it.  I especially love the real-life stories Virtue includes, because they help bring her ideas of talking to God and angels to life -- and sometimes they describe what happened on occasions when divine messages have been ignored!<br />DIVINE GUIDANCE provides three steps for formulating questions, and four steps to start seeing angels around every person we meet.  Virtue also provides side-by-side examples of spiritual messages with the less-helpful lower-self messages, as well as a table showing characteristics of true and false guidance.  The main emphasis of this book is to help people develop and enhance their &quot;clairs&quot;... clairaudience, clairvoyance, clairsentience, and claircognizance... because such expanded awareness opens our ability to clearly hear, see, feel and know what is real around us.  Lots of fun and easy exercises (such as toning) are included, as well as some very helpful prayers.<br />DIVINE GUIDANCE is for people of all faiths, races, ages, and nationalities.  People who are interested in discovering and fulfilling their life mission will enjoy this book more, simply because messages of divine guidance tend to urge us to make a positive contribution to the world.	2001-06-07
US	51273949	RGS6V3H4E942N	0595144640	408387895	Best Evidence : An Investigative Reporter's Three-Year Quest to Uncover the Best Scientific Evidence for Esp, Psychokinesis, Mental Healing, Ghosts and Poltergeists, Dowsing, Mediums, Near Death Experiences, Reincarnation and Other Impossible Phenomena That Refuse to Disappear	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Comprehensive Overview of PSI Evidence	Do you have an open mind -- and are you ready to explore one of the most interesting collections of scientific evidence for paranormal phenomena ever assembled between the covers of a book?<br />If so, you're in luck!  Michael Schmicker's book BEST EVIDENCE presents a comprehensive overview of a wide range of &quot;psi&quot; phenomena including:  extra-sensory perception, psychokinesis (PK), dowsing, mental and faith healing, death bed visions, near death experience, out of body experiences, ghosts and poltergeists, mediums and channelers, and reincarnation.<br />What makes BEST EVIDENCE such a gem is that it not only clearly describes each kind of psi phenomena along with the facts supporting its existence and references to the original studies and sources, but it also includes some intriguing insights about why people sometimes avoid investigating the evidence surrounding paranormal phenomena.  For example, Schmicker cites the work of researchers like Kenneth Batcheldor, who has identified two blocks to PK production (ownership resistance and witness inhibition).  I find it just as interesting to examine the reasons why people find the subject of the paranormal disquieting as it is to see such a thorough review of the evidence showing how psi is a real phenomena which simply won't go away.<br />If you've ever wanted to tell your friends, colleagues and family that there is an ever-increasing body of scientific evidence proving that the paranormal is part of everyday life, this is the book for you!	2001-05-25
US	51273949	R2DREYBEK38RKJ	0609605348	387333628	The Isaiah Effect: Decoding the Lost Science of Prayer and Prophecy	Books	5	187	194	N	N	Ancient Wisdom for Modern Times	Gregg Braden's infectious enthusiasm is evident in every page of his book, THE ISAIAH EFFECT, as he describes his quest to find ancient wisdom in sacred places around the world.  Braden covers some big ideas in THE ISAIAH EFFECT, including:  how ancient spiritual writings have been removed and/or altered in much of our modern western education; the tremendous significance that those ancient writings have for us today; and how these teachings explain ways that we can rediscover how to choose the outcomes and possibilities in our life.  Braden takes us on an exciting spiritual adventure to Egypt, Tibet, Peru, and the American southwest as he ponders these questions and shares his epiphanies along the way.<br />I find the single most powerful section in THE ISAIAH EFFECT to be Braden's explanation of how to regain the lost language of prayer by learning to align one's thoughts, feelings, and emotions.  This &quot;fifth mode of prayer&quot; is not anything like the more common categories of prayer noted by prayer researchers (Colloquial, Petitionary, Ritualistic, Meditative).  Those of us who have experienced times of being at one with everything will be thrilled to see this way of praying being adequately described in some detail.<br />I am also fascinated by Braden's assertion that several different religions and cultures describe prophecies of apolocalypse side-by-side with an alternative path of peace and cooperation.  Both possibilities may seem to be contradictory, yet they are likely helping to show us how we can actively participate in selecting the future we prefer.<br />This book renews my sense of optimism that together, people of Earth can join in prayer to make a choice between greed, comfort and profit... or love, strength, and balance.	2001-05-19
US	51273949	R12WCGB6MZJ1VZ	1583220194	531263531	To Be Healed by the Earth	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Miraculous Healing from Earth Energy	Warren Grossman has written a masterpiece in TO BE HEALED BY THE EARTH.  His deceptively simple book touches my heart so deeply that I find tears of love and joy spontaneously welling up in my eyes as I read it.  Grossman's loving view of this world shines right through every word of this beautifully illustrated book, as he describes how to:  feel and share energy with Nature, feel more Love in one's life, develop one's skills as a Healer, and do a most remarkable set of Exercises.<br />Grossman begins TO BE HEALED BY THE EARTH by describing how he returned home early from a vacation to Brazil in 1987 feeling desperately ill.  His doctor told him a parasite had laid its eggs in his liver and he had one week left to live... and sent him home to die.  Instead of dying, Grossman felt inspired to lie down on the Earth every day, which began a transformation within him.  When he found himself healthy again, he noticed he was seeing light coming from all living organisms -- including in his psychotherapy patients.<br />I began to practice some of the exercises with some trepidation, since I have allergies and many pollens were blowing about this spring.  I found much to my surprise that my allergies and asthma vanished completely as I practiced these exercises on a daily basis... and this was in the height of one of the worst allergy seasons ever!<br />I give this book my highest recommendation to anyone interested in improving their skills as a healer, as well as to anyone who simply wishes they had more energy, better health, and/or a more loving relationship with others in their life.	2001-05-19
US	51273949	RAIFXA4HX3V1E	0812930983	961003238	Dr. Judith Orloff's Guide to Intuitive Healing: 5 Steps to Physical, Emotional, and Sexual Wellness	Books	5	46	47	N	N	A Psychic Doctor's Five Steps to Improved Intuition	With warmth, humor, and poignant examples from her own life, Dr. Orloff presents a rational case for the value of intuition, by describing five easy steps to follow for paying attention to our beliefs, body, subtle energy, inner guidance and dreams.  Many of us receive early warning signs of troubled relationships and problems with our health, yet find it difficult to recognize and heed the wisdom we have access to.  If you've ever wondered how to differentiate between hearing true inner guidance and suffering from an over-active imagination, this book is for you!  Orloff also provides invaluable tips for how to get clear intuitive &quot;reads&quot; in the most trying times and challenging situations.<br />One of the things that impressed me most about INTUITIVE HEALING is Orloff's courage to present the advantages of psychic intuition directly to the medical community, in a culture that historically has denigrated all things psychic.  Orloff builds a crystal-clear case for the value of intuition, which often is the best (and sometimes the only) source of accurate and timely information in life-or-death situations.  Orloff describes how we need not fear death, but can learn to access tremendous reserves of strength by welcoming the energy of death into our lives and learning to better understand death on an intuitive level.<br />INTUITIVE HEALING is priceless for anyone in need of medical care, and equally valuable to those who simply desire to develop intuitive abilities.  I give this book my highest recommendation!	2001-05-07
US	51273949	R2IZVEUDZ0CLLK	0967641101	727466675	Honoring the Hermit: Seeing through the Illusion of Separateness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How to live a soulful life	This thoughtful book illuminates the ways we can attain a more spiritual perspective in our lives, by pointing out the differences between ego (I-ness) and spirit (We-ness).  Author Rebecca Holdorf explains that the Hermit is \\"the Wise One isolated by choice who speaks only when properly addressed:  when the mind is silent.\\"  Holdorf shares relevant stories from her life as she addresses some of the big questions, such as:  the search for meaning in life; increasing awareness of ourselves; relating to others; and such soulful abstractions as truth, beauty, love, compassion and freedom.  What I love most about HONORING THE HERMIT is the way it brings clarity to the matter of how to be a soulful individual, honoring both one's own life path and all life, everywhere.  I highly recommend this book to anyone wishing to gain a better understanding of the interaction between self and spirit.	2001-05-04
US	51273949	RQ6CU7W4J1SK2	1880032627	76490439	Creative Visualization: Use the Power of Your Imagination to Create What You Want in Your Life	Books	5	76	85	N	N	A classic book on creating your life as you desire it to be	Shakti Gawain's classic work, CREATIVE VISUALIZATION, truly stands the test of time.  Although I read it for the first time in April 2001 (the original 1978 first edition version), I was thoroughly impressed with the way Gawain can write such a practical guide to the process of how we create our lives from our thoughts and feelings.<br />Gawain includes many exercises which help readers learn how to relax, how to visualize, contact their higher selves, program prosperity, heal themselves and others, meditate, and state meaningful affirmations.  I especially enjoyed her &quot;pink bubble&quot; manifestation meditation for bringing what you most desire to you.<br />I feel very at home with the exercises and techniques outlined in CREATIVE VISUALIZATION, and highly recommend it to anyone interested in transforming their life for the better.	2001-04-04
US	51273949	R1LKSZVRTANAXR	157392895X	769914195	Dreaming the Future: The Fantastic Story of Prediction	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A brief history of prophecy	Clifford Pickover takes us on a thrilling journey through time to learn how people have utilized a wide variety of divination methods to catch glimpses of the future. DREAMING THE FUTURE succeeds on many levels; it contains one of the most complete assortments of divination methods ever brought together in one book, it describes fascinating accounts of how divination and prophets have changed history, and it provides the reader with many useful do-it-yourself guides to try divination techniques at home.<br />DREAMING THE FUTURE is an entertaining and educational read whether you are actively involved with divination methods, are simply interested to know more about them and how they've been used, or are downright skeptical that such things could have any accuracy whatsoever. Pickover frequently refers to himself as being a skeptic throughout this book, yet he does not fall victim to scientism -- the belief that scientific hypotheses are immutable &quot;laws&quot;, rather than ever-changing theories. Pickover requests that people first rule out the ways we can be tricked, to avoid blindly accepting assertions of paranormal or mystical experience.<br />I particularly enjoyed reading about the wide variety of oracles involving animal behavior, dowsing, candle flames, numerology, automatic writing, cheese shapes, tea leaves, crystals, breathing over a vase of water, sounds and movements of the wind, sand, geomancy, feng shui, fortune cookies, and random remarks overheard in crowds. I finished reading this book feeling inspired to try out new kinds of divination methods that weren't even mentioned, because I regained the sense that we can receive spiritual information from all of our senses in every situation, everywhere, all the time.	2001-03-29
US	51273949	R2EF6EOXZSQ994	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	How to Live in Heaven on Earth	Mystics have long asserted that we live our lives in a fog of confusion, and that great freedom lies in store for those who learn to see through the fog and differentiate between fantasy and reality.  Author Don Miguel Ruiz presents us with four simple concepts from ancient Toltec wisdom which can free us from illusion in his elegant book, THE FOUR AGREEMENTS:  be impeccable with your word, don't take anything personally, don't make assumptions, and always do your best.<br />Ruiz explains how the very beliefs we are raised with usually get in our way of being who we truly are, and helps us learn to master our emotions so we may better navigate our way through the twists and turns of our lives.  The four agreements illustrate better ways to relate to others with genuine love and compassion, while not sacrificing our integrity to ourselves and our spirit in the process.<br />Deceptively simple to read, this book has sufficient depth and power to inspire us to become the masters of our destiny, courageously living each day to the fullest, free from fear of being judged or victimized.  I agree with Ruiz that all who implement these four agreements will live a life of Heaven on Earth... and I am awed that such a small book can deliver so much.	2001-03-13
US	51273949	RKT8JUOKWQ7PZ	0743204077	823571773	Soul Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Understanding the Mysterious Workings of Spirit	SOUL STORIES are a collection of 52 short stories which author Gary Zukav requests readers to contemplate as slowly as we wish -- even as slowly as one story per week. Each tale takes the reader one step further on a journey of introspective self-actualization in which relationships with one's ego and spirit are explored a little bit at a time. The book is deceptively simple to read, yet contains great depth which is ideal fodder for meditation. Zukav's SOUL STORIES are memorable tales of love, loss, and renewal in which the mysterious ways that spirit acts in our lives become just a bit more clear. Zukav does not preach any particular religion as he advocates that we aspire to reach our highest spiritual potential. In addition to the dozens of emotionally moving stories, Zukav gives advice such as &quot;Spiritual partners look inside themselves -- and not at each other -- when they get angry, frightened, or sad.&quot; I could feel my heart breaking open with love and inspiration as I read each of these stories. These stories touch the heart and soul, and give us much to contemplate long after we've finished the last page.	2001-03-02
US	51273949	RG6ZEXR972PVK	0892816635	937058212	Shapeshifting: Shamanic Techniques for Global and Personal Transformation	Books	5	96	104	N	N	Anything is Possible	SHAPESHIFTING is a real gem!  Author John Perkins takes us with him on an amazing journey to comprehend the methods used by shamen around the world to vanish and reappear, transform into plants and animals, heal seemingly inoperable medical conditions, and travel through space and time.  He tells fascinating stories of how he overcame his initial skepticism and doubt to became one with a chair, transform herbs into a newspaper, and travel through time and space as a blue ball of light.  Perkins describes a method for discerning between creating something of lasting value (dream), and creating something of transitory relevance (fantasy).  SHAPESHIFTING also details a powerful technique for taking a dream that you wish to manifest, focusing on it with your mind and heart, energizing it, and releasing it.  Perkins explains that with energy, belief, and intent... anything is possible.	2001-03-01
US	51273949	R129X9YXJSO0AI	1862044775	330923425	Mind Medicine: The Secret Of Powerful Healing	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A beautiful invitation to harness the power of the mind	Author and world-famous psychic and spoon-bender Uri Geller has written a visually stunning and thought-provoking book about how to heal ourselves with the power of our minds.  MIND MEDICINE begins without assuming that the reader already has prior knowledge of this subject.  Almost every page of this book is graced with beautiful pictures, interesting charts, and fascinating quotations that are relevant to the topic being discussed.  Luscious illustrations supplement the elegant simplicity of this wonderfully informative text in such a way that the reader's mind is fully engaged while reading.<br />The premise of Mind Medicine is that we can and do affect our health with our lifestyles and attitudes... which we can change.  Geller advocates judicious use of modern medicine in conjunction with the healing powers of our minds, yet points out that most of us do not fully harness our own healing abilities.  We are healthiest when we feel loved and happy -- and this joyous, light energy attracts more good things and people to us.  Geller invites us to contemplate what makes us happy, and how free we are to change.<br />This book is written so simply and clearly that I envision it being a text book for children or adults who wish to learn how to discover what Uri Geller calls MindPower... the higher powers that allow him to bend spoons, locate hidden things, and affect things from a distance.  Geller makes his irresistible invitation to us crystal-clear in the introduction to his book, &quot;The mind of every one of us possesses an unimaginable gift and you are about to learn how to use it.  Open it now.&quot;  You'll be glad you did!	2001-01-30
US	51273949	R1OD5QZ8KLTDME	0874777984	631070807	The Self-Aware Universe: How Consciousness Creates the Material World	Books	5	170	186	N	N	Seeing Into the Cosmic Mind	Amit Goswami invites us to suppose, for a moment, that our universe is self-aware.  Next, let's imagine how this very consciousness of the universe creates the physical world around us.  Goswami further asserts that we are all part of THE SELF-AWARE UNIVERSE, and shows us how to lift the veil of material monism that tends to obstruct our ability to peer into the cosmic mind.<br />Goswami utilizes findings from recent experiments in quantum physics to provide ample evidence of his assertion that old assumptions based on material monism are out-dated and no longer valid.  Goswami points out that:  we live in a non-local universe, where everything is interconnected to everything else at the most fundamental level; we cannot hope to observe anything without affecting what we are observing; we can only predict the outcome of events in probabilities (not certainties); and there is something much more to this universe than just the matter and energy we can measure.<br />With a brilliant mind and warm heart, Goswami guides the reader on a wonderful journey.  We discover objects that exist in two places at once, effects that precede their causes, the implications of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and the Schrodinger's cat thought experiment, and the fascinating world of paradoxes and tangled hierarchies.<br />At the end of this journey, we find ourselves wondering who we truly are.  Goswami writes, &quot;the self of our self-reference is due to a tangled hierarchy, but our consciousness is the consciousness of our Being that is beyond the subject-object split.  There is no other source of consciousness in the universe.  The self of self-reference and the consciousness of the original consciousness, together, make what we call self-consciousness.&quot;<br />I highly recommend this enchanting book!	2001-01-30
US	51273949	R1W7070N07GUKC	0553375423	965386750	Everyday Miracles: The Inner Art of Manifestation	Books	5	72	73	N	N	Classic book from a master of manifestation	David Spangler's book is a wonderfully clear book that is packed with useful tips on how to create the life you most desire.  There is an energy to miracles, as Spangler describes the steps he has found to be most effective at &quot;transforming a wave of possibility into a particle of actuality&quot;.  This book provides excellent tools for anyone who feels a need to focus their manifestation powers more clearly, and even includes a chapter of how to overcome difficulties that people commonly encounter with their manifestations.<br />Spangler shares fascinating true manifestation stories, and reminds us that we have all experienced manifestation in our lives.  Often we think of these moments when our wishes and dreams came true as synchronicities -- yet there is truly an art of manifestation,  of &quot;changing and fine-tuning the web of relationship and interconnection&quot; -- and Spangler is the perfect guide to show us how to refine our manifestation techniques for more beautiful and enjoyable results.<br />Spangler's manifestation fitness program focuses on maintaining a healthy body, finding our rhythm, recognizing limits, focusing on the present moment, forgiving, keeping a sense of wonder, allowing for possibilities, positive thinking, gratitude, spirituality, and compassion.  He provides useful and easy-to-do visualization exercises that help us understand how to understand the way we are creating, and begin to bring more of what we most desire into our lives.  Manifestation rituals, such as &quot;boiling reality&quot; are described in detail, so that even complete novices can successfully achieve good manifestation results.  Numerous exercises, such as &quot;welcoming the new you with love&quot;, and &quot;projecting the light of your will&quot; are provided throughout the book, giving the reader ample opportunity to practice the techniques as they are being described.	2001-01-29
US	51273949	R1D4QXIPAUDPAM	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	5	347	363	N	N	One of the best books ever written	I've read The Holographic Universe often, and have gained new insights into the nature of consciousness and reality from its riches every time.  I consider it to be author Michael Talbot's most important work, as well as one of the best books ever written on the subject of so-called paranormal phenomena.<br /><br />Talbot's fascination for finding scientific explanations for psychic and paranormal activity began when he noticed objects moving inexplicably around him, regardless where he lived.  He would sometimes awaken to find socks draped on his houseplants, and occasionally found objects in his apartment that he knew for a fact had been hundreds of miles away.  His real-life experiences with such shifts in reality combined with his training in physics led him to explore possible reasons for these and other mysterious happenings.<br /><br />Talbot begins his book with an excellent introduction to physicist David Bohm's concept of the holographic model of the universe, and combines the physics model with Karl Pribram's work on the holographic model of the brain.  The result is a marvelous description of a non-local, interconnected and alive universe that moves in response to our every thought and feeling.<br /><br />I am very impressed with the clarity with which Talbot presents the concept of a holographic universe and how various paranormal phenomena can be explained within that model.  Talbot's discussion is comprehensive, fascinating, clear, and packed with relevant and intriguing stories of paranormal phenomena.  Out of body experiences (OBEs), near death experiences (NDEs), auric readings, psychokinesis, acupuncture, X-ray vision, healing, and psychic readings are all described and considered for placement into the holographic model.<br /><br />Talbot presents a wealth of relevant research studies and scientific theories from David Bohm, Helmut Schmidt, Marilyn Schlitz, Robert Monroe, Charles Tart, Larry Dossey, Paul Davies, PMH Atwater, Ian Stevenson, Fred Alan Wolf, Harold Puthoff, Russell Targ, Lyall Watson, Stanislav Grof, and many others., Lyall Watson, Stanislav Grof, and many others.	2001-01-25
US	51273949	R6ZVU3BXERD5W	157324161X	332585200	Meant to Be: Miraculous Stories to Inspire a Lifetime of Love	Books	5	33	33	N	N	True Stories Reveal the Awesome Spirit of Love	I love to hear true stories of how best friends and lovers met, because I've long suspected that in listening to these stories I can witness love's hidden hand at work.  Relationship counselors Joyce and Barry Vissell had a similar vision when they collected dozens of true love stories for their heart-warming book, MEANT TO BE.<br />The Vissells begin this book with the assertion that &quot;there is a miraculous love story within each person&quot;, and describe that their greatest hope for readers of this book is &quot;to inspire you to live more fully every moment, to love and appreciate now the ones with whom you are in relationship, rather than putting it off into the uncertain future.&quot;  MEANT TO BE succeeds brilliantly at both showing us the way love orchestrates our lives, and also pointing out the value of being fully present in our relationships right now.<br />I found myself feeling uplifted and amazed by the synchronicities and astonishing ways that peoples' lives in these stories arranged themselves so that they would take note of someone special -- even when they were not trying or even feeling like meeting anyone new.  The common thread in all these stories was the desire of those involved to deeply love another, and yet each story is completely unique.  I was deeply touched that the authors themselves participated in sharing the ups and downs of their love stories... each from their own point of view.<br />This would be a wonderful book if it only contained stories of how people met, but it goes far beyond that to share stories of how lovers can help each other grow and heal, and how love never ends... even when our lovers die.  If you are ready to read a book that will break your heart open with a feeling of love so great it cannot be contained, MEANT TO BE is meant for you.	2001-01-15
US	51273949	RPCKE3ECVGMN	1571741437	920195783	Astral Dynamics: A New Approach to Out-Of-Body Experiences	Books	5	40	41	N	N	The Ultimate Astral Travel Guide	Would you like to meditate in the farthest reaches of space, seek the ends of the universe, or visit a long-lost friend or family member?  Have you ever longed to travel to realms full of beauty, music, knowledge and loving beings?  Now you can.  All you'll need to begin your adventures is to read a copy of Robert Bruce's excellent book, &quot;Astral Dynamics&quot;.<br />Astral Dynamics may well be the best guidebook to astral projection (also known as out-of-body experience, or OBE) you'll ever read.  Not only does Bruce take the reader through a step-by-step process (complete with pictures) of how to energize one's astral body and successfully master the core skills of astral projection, but he also includes delightful first-person accounts of what it feels like to travel out of body.<br />Bruce's book helps you learn how to achieve deep physical relaxation, tame your mind, and achieve a trance state before mastering the art of projecting your &quot;etheric double&quot;.  Bruce provides invaluable pointers such as keeping the first projections ultrashort, so that they can be remembered, and ignoring noises and other distracting hallucinations just prior to out-of-body travel.<br />I am especially impressed with Bruce's descriptions of common difficulties encountered by astral travelers, such as waking paralysis, spontaneous projection, getting stuck to one's body during exit, exit cramping or pain, saliva problems, and disorientation, among other things.<br />I love the way Bruce covers much more than just the basics of astral travel.  He differentiates lucid dreaming from astral projection, and describes the technique of virtual reality projection whereby &quot;the subconscious mind can be tricked into creating custom-made virtual realms&quot; such as finding oneself inside the virtual world of a painting in the wall.  Bruce also devotes chapters to the Akashic planes as well as what he calls &quot;strange astral phenomena&quot; such as reality fluctuations, melting body parts, vision reversal, OBE hitch-hikers and astral beings.<br />Astral Dynamics is a first-rate reference book that I love to come back to again and again.s, melting body parts, vision reversal, OBE hitch-hikers and astral beings.  <br />Astral Dynamics is a first-rate reference book that I love to come back to again and again.	2001-01-08
US	51273949	R3CR88Y9D3ZIQJ	0028632346	518601870	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Near-Death Experiences	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The Ultimate NDE Guide	Whether you've had a near death experience or just want to gain a better understanding of what NDEs are all about, you'll be fascinated by &quot;The Complete Idiot's Guide to Near Death Experiences&quot;.  Author PMH Atwater is fully qualified to examine this phenomenon, since she experienced three near death episodes in 1977 and has been seriously studying the phenomenon since 1978.<br />I love the way this book is organized into sections that help clarify the NDE.  Different types of near death experiences are described in detail, along with the differences between adult and child experiences.  Common after-effects such as enhanced psychic abilities, transformations of consciousness, and altered views of reality are also described in detail.<br />This book is fun to read, because almost every page contains an interesting tidbit of information pertaining to near-death experiences.  I am intrigued that the vast majority (80 to 90 percent) of near death experiencers report looking and acting younger, feeling substantially more energetic, becoming increasingly sensitive to sound and light, feeling much less boredom, regarding things as new even when they're not, and healing wounds much more quickly.<br />This is a great reference book because it's easy to understand, contains numerous near death experience stories, and summarizes current research in the field clearly and succinctly.	2001-01-08
US	51273949	R31Z0GR6I8UE4T	0553576348	167114485	Hello from Heaven: A New Field of Research-After-Death Communication Confirms That Life and Love Are Eternal	Books	5	261	267	N	N	They Talk to Dead People	Have you ever wondered if we will be able to talk to our friends and family when we die?  Judy and Bill Guggenheim answer this question from the point of view of people who assert that their loved ones have died and then contacted them after death.  The Guggenheims present an amazingly convincing case that consciousness continues after death, and that such communications happen frequently.  HELLO FROM HEAVEN is packed with amazing stories of ordinary people who have received unmistakable messages from their deceased loved ones, sometimes many years after death.<br />Bill and Judy have done a superlative job of compiling the most comprehensive and organized collection of After Death Communications (ADCs) that I have ever seen in one book.  After collecting more than 3,300 first-hand accounts of ADCs, the Guggenheims discovered that the dead can contact us with fragrances, touch, appearances, visions, dreams, rainbows, butterflies, and even the occasional phone call.  These communications often contain reassurances that the deceased are doing very well, and need not be worried about.  They can also provide help to the living, such as averting suicides.<br />HELLO FROM HEAVEN provides great solace to those who have lost loved ones or have concerns about dying, since it is brimming with real-life, first-hand accounts of communications between the living and dead.  For anyone who has seen or heard the dead and thought, &quot;I must be imagining things - that couldn't have happened&quot;, this book also provides reassurance that you're not going crazy.  Love is eternal.	2000-12-09
US	51273949	R322JFXXT7UI9Z	1931254001	762312937	Mind Science: Meditation Training for Practical People	Books	5	94	94	N	N	Break Free of Habituation... Into Real Consciousness	This excellent meditation guide book is written in the form of a one-day seminar that Charles Tart conducted for the University of Arizona's &quot;Toward a Science of Consciousness&quot; meeting in Tucson in 1998.  While there are many books written on the subject of what meditation is and how to go about meditating, few can match the hands-on feeling of being in a meditation class that this book offers.<br />Right from the beginning, this book grabbed my attention by describing the differences between scientism (the tendency to consider scientific theories to be &quot;laws&quot;) and open-minded, objective science.  By pointing out this as well as other common habitual thinking traps we often fall into, Tart's book helps the reader learn to recognize the way we can become aware of our mechanical, habitual thought patterns.<br />Tart clearly describes concentrative meditation and opening-up meditation (aka &quot;vipassana&quot;) techniques in a straightforward manner that is easy enough for beginners to put into immediate practice.  I was glad to see that questions and answers that arose in the workshop were included in this book, because they often addressed the same concerns that were going through my mind as I tried out each meditative technique.<br />As an extra bonus, Tart's book describes the range of states of consciousness we experience, and how we can awaken from the sleep of ordinary consciousness where we are primarily reacting to external stimuli.  Tart has a real talent for illuminating the highlights in consciousness research, and sharing some of the most important findings in simple language.  Tart's down-to-Earth practicality is his great gift as a writer -- he brings complex issues into clear focus without losing the main ideas along the way.<br />If you've been waiting until an easy-to-understand yet comprehensive meditation book came along, you're in luck.  This is it!	2000-12-08
US	51273949	R1D81DAL054Q0R	0966132769	580672109	Mind into Matter: A New Alchemy of Science and Spirit	Books	5	143	151	N	Y	Exploring the Frontier between the Imaginal and the Real	Fred Alan Wolf's done it again!  His latest book, MIND INTO MATTER, is a masterpiece of insight into the hidden workings of our magical, mysterious universe. As I read this book, I felt exhilarated to join Wolf on his journey &quot;to find our mind&quot; on the frontier of the imaginal and the real.<br />MIND INTO MATTER is structured around Wolf's explanation of the significance and meaning behind the first nine letter-symbols in the Hebrew alphabet, with a separate chapter devoted to each Hebrew letter. The book begins with the concept of Spirit within the Void, and continues onward to Creation, Animation, Resistance, Vitality, Replication, Chance, Unification, and Structure. We witness the new alchemy at work in the process of Animation, where we notice how we Think, Feel, Sense, and Intuit the world around us.<br />I love Wolf's playful way of describing thought experiments throughout his book, alongside fascinating research material from physicists and neurophysiological researchers that suggest how our conscious minds form memories of events. On a deep level, we are aware of all possibilities available to us, and the one we remember as being real is the one we choose to observe.  Since information flows from the future to our present time, we have what we need to select the path we most desire.<br />To everyone who wishes to more fully grasp the breadth, depth, and height of who we truly are and how we interact with the universe, I give this book my highest recommendation.	2000-11-14
US	51273949	R1COM306D8WIRO	1571741836	819358259	The PK Man: A True Story of Mind Over Matter	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	The Biography of a Psychokinetic Master	I was enthralled to read this remarkable true life story of Ted Owens, also known as &quot;The PK Man&quot;.  Ted Owens achieved great fame and notoriety in the 1970's for accurately predicting numerous earthquakes, vehicle crashes (including the space shuttle Challenger), weather changes, sporting event outcomes, UFO appearances, and power outages, among other things.  Ted considered himself to have psychokinetic (PK) abilities conferred upon him by what he called &quot;the space intelligences&quot;, although he often had difficulty convincing skeptical journalists and scientists of his powers.<br />I love the way Dr. Jeffrey Mishlove methodically examines each example of Ted Owens' PK demonstrations in THE PK MAN, in order to determine the validity of Mr. Owens' claim that he was using psychokinetic (not precognitive or clairvoyant) powers.  While Ted's PK powers were not 100% fool-proof, many of his predictions for unlikely events (such as a drought in Florida in the rainy season) came true, and his mere presence often seemed to trigger earth-changing events (such as the eruption of Mt. Saint Helens).<br />THE PK MAN fascinated me with its colorful descriptions of UFO manifestations, Ted Owen's vengeful PK attacks on those who doubted and discredited him, and the highlights from Ted Owens' PK training classes.  Ted Owens' hypnotic trance suggestions were designed to greatly increase one's mental, emotional, physical and spiritual (including psychokinetic) powers... as well as help people contact extra-terrestrials... and they are included in their entirety in a chapter towards the end of the book.	2000-11-13
US	51273949	RG6KE23CMTJUB	1889430013	175419148	Tinkerbell Jerusalem	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Special Kind of Magic	Do you sometimes feel overwhelmed by the hardships in your life, and find yourself wishing you could retrieve some of the lost magic of your childhood?  If so, you'll be delighted to read Bonnie Kelley Kaback's autobiographical book, &quot;Tinkerbell Jerusalem&quot;.<br />Kaback's life has been filled with unexpected challenges ever since she was nine years old, when her idyllic home life began to splinter apart.  Kaback describes how she managed to find sparkles of love and joy in spite of the hardships she encountered as things didn't go the way she'd hoped and expected.<br />There is a special kind of magic that Kaback describes which has the power to transform our feelings from sorrow to joy, from anger and fear to laughter and love.  Kaback coins a term for this magic as &quot;inbetweens&quot; to describe those special memories or experiences that help us find our way to living a more fulfilling life.  These &quot;little things&quot; are catalysts that can and do transform the world when we respond to others with love, rather than reacting from fear or anger.  Even very old pain from injury, divorces, and parental alcoholism can be healed, as Kaback so beautifully describes.<br />Her prose is written with rare eloquence, which makes her story a joy to read from beginning to end.  If you're at all sentimental, I recommend that you read this book with a box of Kleenex.  It will touch your heart, and leave you feeling a renewed connection to everything you love most in this world.	2000-11-08
US	51273949	R37S2HFW0APOR3	1552123499	133578780	Eyes of Sophia: A Dream Come True	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Learn How to Live a Dream-Come-True	This book is a deliciously suspenseful true love story that describes how Donna May met the man of her dreams, Alan Chien.  While we know from the start where this love story will end, we don't know how two people from such different walks of life who don't know one another can recognize each other after their first chance meeting.<br />Told alternately from Donna's and Alan's point of view, this story demonstrates the way synchronicity operates in real life.  Donna enters the story as an experienced healer, energy worker, and dream interpreter who is learning to better understand how to communicate with spirit.  Alan just begins to discover these things as he witnesses first-hand the way Donna's waking dreams have real-life significance, and begins to find meaning in coincidental happenings in his life as well.  Both Donna and Alan discover a deeper sense of love and connection between each other and all that is, as they learn to trust their hearts and spirits to guide their lives.<br />When I meet couples for the first time, I almost always ask them, &quot;How did you two get together?&quot;, because I love to glimpse the way the spirit behind physical things pulls us closer to those we need at just the right time in our life.  &quot;Eyes of Sophia&quot; shares these gifts of spirit with us as it opens and reveals a world of interpreting dream symbols, physical pain in our bodies, coincidences and synchronicities.  This book shows how even the occasional disappointments and set-backs along the way have meaning, and are part of the grand design of life.  I love the way this book effectively demonstrates how the more closely we observe the details (names, articles, dates, songs), the more meaningful our own life story can become.  Donna May and Alan Chien's autobiographical tale is exactly the kind of sign-post people need to find the spiritual meaning behind coincidences in their lives, and learn how to live a dream-come-true.	2000-11-07
US	51273949	RT5NM1ZALPXTH	0072307293	584913909	The Art of Public Speaking	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Mastering Public Speaking	If you're like most people, you find yourself feeling a bit nervous when you need to face groups of people to make presentations or give talks.  Some of this nervousness fades with time and experience, but if you read  this book you'll have a definite advantage -- you'll be prepared!<br />I  read this book in order to improve my public speaking skills, and I have  found it to be consistently informative, helpful, clear, and inspirational.  This book is most useful for those who have very little public speaking  experience, and it provides guidelines for determining the purpose of your  talk, giving some thought to who your audience will be, doing research,  supporting your ideas, organizing the talk, and keeping the audience's  interest while you're talking.  I especially love the sample speeches  provided in this book, and the side-bars for illustrating key concepts and  ideas.<br />Anyone planning to speak in public will benefit from reading  this book as they prepare!	2000-05-31
US	51273949	RRWEPEMEZHQOZ	0898002311	516188791	Skillful Means: Patterns for Success (Nyingma Psychology Series, 5)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Discover How Your Work Can be a Mindful, Joyous Activity	This is one of Tarthang Tulku's most accessible and practical books.  Tulku's greatest gift is his ability to clearly communicate techniques for meditation and mindful living that came from his Tibetan Buddhist  experience.  Tulku conveys fascinating ideas in simple terms which can be  readily applied in anyone's life, regardless of spiritual or religious  orientation -- or even what kind of work you do!<br />Most of Tulku's books  contain wonderful exercises to practice the concepts he describes, and this  book is no exception. For example, the very first chapter describing Inner  Freedom offers three ways to practice improving clarity, concentration, and  mindfulness.  The patterns of success that Tulku discusses in great detail  in this book have to do with self awareness, coping with change, and  sharing with others.  Long before anyone heard the term &quot;emotional  intelligence&quot;, Tulku was practicing and teaching it.<br />Just reading  Tulku's writing improves my facilities for meditation and mindfulness, by  focusing my attention on the process of thought itself.  It's always a joy  for me to read anything written by this master of consciousness!	2000-05-26
US	51273949	RUI97RJY4CD6R	0140190570	448275117	Shape Shifters: Shaman Women in Contemporary Society (Arkana)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Fourteen Uplifting Biographies in One Book!	Each of the fourteen SHAPE SHIFTERS in this book is a woman shaman who sets a living example of health, balance, and integrity.  These stories are uplifting, since most of these women experienced very deep trauma at some  time in their lives from which they emerged stronger, wiser, and with gifts  (such as healing, creativity, enhanced multisensory perception, and other  psychic talents).<br />There is a resurgence now of shamanic women, who  typically were aware from childhood of a subtle world of energy that became  increasingly important in their lives as they matured.  You may have heard  of some of the women interviewed for this book; they include Joan Halifax,  Lynn Andrews, Luisah Teish, Tsultrim Allione, Rowena Pattee, Ruth-Inge  Heinze, Larissa Vilenskaya, Petey Stevens, Vicki Noble, Starhawk, J. Ruth  Strock, Sandy Ingerman, Susan Eger Valadez, and Brooke Medicine Eagle.<br />Author Michele Jamal selected these women as modern-day examples of  living a shamanic life in order to share both their inspirational stories  and the underlying goal of helping to change a destructive global direction  to one that is life oriented, while we still have time and space to do  so.<br />I love this book so much that I keep coming back to read it again,  and I give it my highest recommendation!	2000-05-16
US	51273949	R243CUST3ZTZ8B	1567183166	410043274	Protected by the Light: The Complete Book of Psychic Self-Defense	Books	5	63	69	N	N	Excellent Psychic Protection Handbook	It's said that every day we are exposed to psychic attacks.  The incoming negativity can contribute to illnesses, accidents, and all sorts of &quot;bad luck&quot;.  If you have felt loss of strength and energy,  depression, dullness of the mind and senses, pains in your body, quick  temper, loss of appetite.... you might have experienced a psychic attack.<br />Dr. Bruce Goldberg explains how the vast majority of psychic attacks  come from general negativity in the universe (such as from news stories and  advertisements), and the next most common cause of psychic attack (about  7%) is from discarnate entities, or ghosts.  About 3% of psychic attacks  are intentionally caused by people, and less than 1% is attributable to  demonic entities.  Dr. Goldberg believes that all suicides are the result  of psychic attacks.<br />Fortunately, there are things we can do to protect  ourselves and those we love from this barrage of negativity!  Just as we  can keep our skin clean and strong to defend our physical body from  bacterial infection, Goldberg asserts that we can prevent the piercing of  our aura using the techniques he outlines in this book.  There is one  chapter containing basic techniques and another with advanced techniques  for psychic self-defense.<br />Dr. Goldberg's experience with 11,000  hypnotherapy clients over 24 years led to his writing this book -- which is  the most thorough treatment of the subject of psychic self-defense I've  ever seen.  This book is useful for anyone interested in maintaining their  health and sanity as they expand their psychic awareness... or anyone  interested in a deeper understanding of what's going on.<br />I highly  recommend this book!	2000-05-15
US	51273949	R1N32SAAMP2ZF0	0684825473	348681241	The Power of Hope	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A powerful, essential book	This is simply a wonderful book!  I love the way it points out the value of adversity in our lives that is so often overlooked, finding hope in the darkest nights of our souls.  Yes, even when things seem to be going  terribly, terribly wrong... there is tremendous value in finding the gifts  that Hope brings us in these trying times.<br />One of the greatest powers  of Hope is that it gives us the courage to open our eyes and see our lives  clearly when crises appear.  It does this by helping us grow in ways we  could never have guessed.  Hope also helps us by allowing us to find and  feel compassion for ourself and others... and by leading us to spiritual  awakening.<br />Lamm draws on his lifetime of work as a religious counselor  serving all faiths to present fascinating true stories of the power of hope  in people's lives.  It helps that some of Lamm's friends are fascinating  people, too -- like Alan Alda, Nobel prize-winner Elie Wiesel, author  Harold Kushner, and Shari Lewis!<br />I especially love Lamm's ten point plan  that turns hope into reality... he clearly describes in practical terms the  things we can do to have the courage to live true to our inspiration and  dreams.	2000-05-14
US	51273949	R11TMKFMMXA40Y	0140193316	902338117	The Handbook of Self-Healing: Your Personal Program for Better Health and Increased Vitality (Arkana)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	You don't need to wear eyeglasses!	Once in a while, I find a book so unique and so valuable that I tell all my friends and family about it.  THE HANDBOOK OF SELF-HEALING is such a book, since it is valuable for everyone wishing to either prevent health  problems or regain good health.<br />Author Meir Schneider cured himself of  congenital blindness as a teenager, and discovered many ways to optimize  the body's strength, flexibility and sensitivity.  He now has a California  driver's license, and tells people that they don't need to wear eyeglasses!  This book is full of Schneider's wonderful suggestions for improving  whole-body health (not just the eyes) through exercises, visualization,  meditation, breathing, and stretching (among other things).<br />This book  contains separate sections which provide a wealth of information for people  suffering from work, music, computer, or sports-related pains and injuries  -- as well as heart problems, headaches, arthritis, back pain, muscular  dystrophy, diabetes mellitus, posture problems, polio, multiple sclerosis,  and vision problems.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone wishing  to learn how to help their body be the best it can be!	2000-05-09
US	51273949	R1EEKZRGUV0DYC	1891411020	31097057	Merlin's Message : Reawakening and Remembering	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A wonderful little book!	This lovely book is highly empowering!  It is a priceless reminder of who we truly are, from the vantage point of seeing ourselves as being wizards who playfully create our lives interactively.  As Marelin the Magician  writes, &quot;Nothing happens to you; everything happens through you&quot;.  This book is truly a pocketbook; it fits in my pocket so I can carry it  along and read it when I'm traveling.  I find it highly uplifting every  time I need an extra boost of good cheer, since every page is full of  positive affirmations and optimistic statements.  I love the way this book  reminds us to live our dreams -- I highly recommend it!	2000-05-08
US	51273949	R17O9AS2A1WUAQ	1887166289	364233382	Duck Soup for the Soul : The Way of Living Louder and Laughing Longer	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Quack up with the Swami!	With just the right humorous spice and some very ducky spiritual stock, Swami Beyondananda (aka Steve Bhaerman) mixes up a batch of healing stories that build strong funny bones and remind us to increase the laugh-force on  the planet.  Each chapter is as funny as it is wise, as you can intuit from  the Swami's advice that we can alter our own reality (and the reality of  those around us) by Making Fools of ourselves,  remembering to  Tell-A-Vision, being Esteem-Generators, and Committing Random Acts of  Comedy and Beautiful  Nonsense.  Have fun learning how to drive your own  Karma... while making sure you don't run over anyone else's Dogma!	2000-05-08
US	51273949	R1E6HT8V866JWU	0944031420	735454100	Lynn Andrews in Conversation With Michael Toms (New Dimensions Books)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A wonderful interview!	Michael Toms (of the New Dimensions radio program) interviews best-selling author Lynn Andrews in this fascinating book.  Lynn tells stories of some of her real-life experiences with sorcerors and magic, and how she felt at  the time these amazing things happened.  Lynn also does a beautiful job  expressing the importance of learning to manage our emotions... for if we  don't, our emotions will control our lives.  This book is a must-read for  Lynn's fans!	2000-05-08
US	51273949	R2MZZIPLJMNPLU	0385065744	754593448	The Kirlian Aura: Photographing the Galaxies of Life (Social change series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A wonderful book about Kirlian photography	Stanley Krippner and Daniel Rubin wrote this book on the subject of Kirlian photography, and succeeded in combining an excellent explanation of the Kirlian photographic process with wonderful photographic examples.  Kirlian photographs show the aura of things such as leaves, coins, and  human body parts.  This book consists of a collection of articles submitted  by researchers in the field on Kirlian-related topics, so there are  articles about building a portable Kirlian device, as well as articles  showing what a healer's fingers look like when healing is happening!  This  is truly a wonderful book for anyone interested in learning about Kirlian  photography -- both how it works and what it can be used for.	2000-05-08
US	51273949	RWTDT8PA5QZVE	1569010102	694700316	Balanced Destiny: Essentials for World Survival	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent introductory new age primer	This book does an excellent job at providing an introductory overview of a large number of &quot;new age&quot; topics in an easy-to-read style.  Reincarnation, crystals, chakras, channeling, meditation, auras, lost  civilazations and the evolution of religion are covered clearly and simply.  The authors (Bartlett and Whiteheart) have many years of experience in the  subjects they discuss, and their passion and enthusiasm shines through!	2000-05-08
US	51273949	R2A3305XLGTU2G	0806514221	715318021	Letters to Solovine: 1906-1955	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Insights into Einstein's heart and soul	Maurice Solovine explains in his introduction to this book how he came to meet Albert Einstein in Berne, when he was teaching physics for three francs an hour.  At their first meeting, Solovine explained that he was  &quot;studying philosophy, but wanted to delve into physics so as to  acquire a thorough understanding of nature&quot;.  On the third day of  their meetings, Einstein told Solovine,  &quot;As a matter of fact, you  don't have to be tutored in physics; our discussion of problems that stem  from it is much more interesting.  Just come to see me and I will be glad  to talk with you.&quot;  Thus began the long friendship of Maurice Solovine  and Albert Einstein -- and this book is a compilation of many letters from  Einstein to Solovine, with photocopies of the German originals and  translations to English following.  While physicists may be somewhat  disappointed to find that these letters to Solovine contain very little  discussion of physics, most fans of Einstein will be enchanted to see him  express his feelings about his family, his work, his peers, and politics.	2000-05-07
US	51273949	RXO14D9H524VE	0966132718	469641092	The Spiritual Universe: One Physicist's Vision of Spirit, Soul, Matter, and Self	Books	5	73	77	N	N	The Self As Illusion -- The Physics of Faith	This engaging book describes how there is actually only one soul... and how the illusion that many souls seem to exist came about. Wolf sets out to show how the self is fundamentally an illusion, &quot;arising as a  reflection of the soul in matter much as a clear lake at midnight reflects  the moon.&quot;  Wolf begins this book with descriptions of Aristotlian and  Platonic Soul Physics... and then continues the quest for knowledge of the  soul through ancient Egypt and ancient Chaldea, and onward through more  modern history.  Wolf shares his vision of the soul as a process rather  than some &quot;thing&quot; measurable in terms of mechanical materiality  -- drawing from Qabalistic, Buddhist, and Christian wisdom as well as a  thorough understanding of physics to redefine spirit, soul, matter and  self. I found this entire book to be deeply thought-provoking, with Wolf's  characteristic playful humor entertaining me throughout. I especially  enjoyed the section of THE SPIRITUAL UNIVERSE that described the importance  of secret knowledge, and why it is sacred -- thereby showing us the physics  of faith.	2000-05-07
US	51273949	RMKXLLFOUYQHY	055334790X	365384420	Recovering the Soul: A Scientific and Spiritual Approach	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A wonderful book about non-local mind	Dr. Dossey explores the research and theory behind the concept of non-local mind, with the intent to illustrate how our minds are non-local -- unconfined to brains and bodies and thus not entirely dependent on the  physical organism.  As Dossey explains, &quot;If non-local mind is a  reality, the world becomes a place of interaction and connection, not one  of isolation and disjunction.  And if humanity really believed that  non-local mind were real, an entirely new foundation for ethical and moral  behavior would enter, which would hold at least the possibility of a  radical departure from the insane ways human beings and nation-states have  chronically behaved toward each other.&quot;  Dossey delves into ideas put  forward by Schrodinger, Godel, Einstein, Margenau, and Bohm -- before  moving into the spiritual implications of non-local mind.  I highly  recommend this book as an excellent starting point for understanding the  concept of &quot;one mind&quot;, and for considering the implications this  has in our lives.	2000-05-07
US	51273949	R12TL1HWUE9N9H	0060963107	192455654	Taking the Quantum Leap: The New Physics for Nonscientists	Books	5	76	81	N	N	To Be or Not to Be...	This is one of the best books for finding out about quantum physics and what impact it has on our lives, from the vantage point of the parallel universes (or many worlds model) perspective.  Wolf's writing is humorous  and descriptive, and the book is chock full of wonderful cartoons,  photographs, charts, and quotations.  Whether you've studied physics before  or are a complete novice, you'll find lots of good information here!  As  active observers, we are responsible for selecting which of the infinite  possible realities we will experience.  As Wolf puts it, &quot;To be or not  to be is not the question; it is the answer&quot;.	2000-05-07
US	51273949	R3M8DKNT2LFY6Q	078686561X	601082588	Wishing Well: Making Your Every Wish Come True	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Getting to the Heart of Wishing	Dr. Pearsall's book shows how to find greater success with our &quot;wishful thinking&quot; by taking stock of our heart-head tendencies (using a head-heart inventory self-test).  The idea is to learn to  &quot;cardiocontemplate&quot;, as Paul Pearsall playfully puts it, in order  that our heart can &quot;have its way rather than allowing your brain to  busy you with trying to get its way&quot;.  Pearsall describes the  characteristics of mature wishers as being persistently patient,  harmoniously connected, pleasantly agreeable, modestly humble, and kindly  tender -- in other words, loving in five different ways.  One of my  favorite sections in Pearsall's book is his concept of the &quot;Wish  Star&quot;, where we can focus on the five key domains of what we are  wishing for -- such as serenity, compassion, meaning, purpose, and delight  (along with the darker realms of turmoil, loneliness, despair, stagnation,  and disillusionment).  This book is full of fascinating information, and it  even comes with a CD-ROM wish training program for Windows!	2000-05-07
US	51273949	R1EPF389MLE42S	0061043834	423410238	Healing Words	Books	5	48	53	N	N	A wealth of information on prayer-based healing!	Dr. Dossey explains in HEALING WORDS how prayer-based healing works.  It has been scientifically proven in hundreds of experiments to be a balanced part of health care that can significantly decrease health problems and  significantly improve our quality and quantity of life.  Dossey shares some  of his own real-life stories of caring for patients... including an  American Indian shaman, who requested Dr. Dossey's medical help for his  aching neck!  This book contains a wealth of information about prayer  experiments written in Dossey's characteristically down-to-Earth style.  I  love the way Dossey raises questions about whether some prayer experiments  are ethical, and why some scientists continue to resist the mounting body  of evidence that so clearly shows how prayer has a powerful effect on  healing.	2000-05-07
US	51273949	R14ZBZDFS2GAND	0062506811	831883884	Illuminations: Visions for Change, Growth, and Self-Acceptance	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This book is worth its weight in gold!	ILLUMINATIONS is 96 pages of inspired, joyous, loving insights.  Each page contains a postage stamp sized abstract illustration accompanying a poetic affirmation which is only one or two sentences in length.  This may not  seem like much, but I just adore this book for its simple directness!  I  keep this book near where I work, and give myself a treat by simply opening  it to some random page -- it's better than getting a fortune from a fortune  cookie!  As I do that right now, I read, &quot;It's easier to pretend that  you don't know what to do than to do what you need to do.  You know what to  do.&quot;	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R1BI4HOP2VFVS0	0393046699	531895676	Visual Intelligence: How We Create What We See	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Visual process as active construction	We construct our visual and perceptual experience of objects by touch, taste, smell, sound and sight -- or as cognitive scientist Donald Hoffman writes in VISUAL INTELLIGENCE, &quot;... to experience is to construct, in  each modality and without exception&quot;.  Hoffman sets forth an extremely  detailed and convincing explanation to support this assertion, and in the  process takes us on a journey through the rules of visual intelligence.  Many of us know that we construct each curve or surface we see, since the  rods and cones inside our eyes use discrete pixel-like &quot;dots&quot;  that can only approximate the images we perceive... but I didn't realize  until I read this book how powerfully our visual interpretations affect our  emotional responses.	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R1ECHSLYX5KK00	0915811626	613589446	Creating Miracles: Understanding the Experience of Divine Intervention	Books	5	9	9	N	N	How to bring miracles into your daily life	I love the way Carolyn Miller tells real-life stories of miraculous occurrences with the thoughts and feelings of the people experiencing the miracles.  Miller captures the emotional spark and personality of those involved, and gives us a front-row seat as miracles unfold.  Many of these  stories describe people who survived accidents and escaped assaults in  situations where they easily might have died or been seriously injured  instead.  Miller explains how changes in people's thinking leads to changes  in the circumstances in their lives, even when the situation appears to be  hopeless.  Miller points out some simple steps each of us can take to live  more miraculous lives, and she explains them so clearly that it's easy to  do!	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R2QYLZCC3XWZOH	0939680149	894881193	The Universe Is a Green Dragon: A Cosmic Creation Story	Books	5	33	43	N	N	Refreshing, invigorating view of this enchanted universe	Whenever I read this book I feel like I'm sitting outdoors under the starry night sky by a campfire, listening to two people talk about the meaning of life, the universe, and everything.  Within the framework of an imaginary conversation between &quot;Thomas&quot; (based on Thomas Berry)  and &quot;Youth&quot; (representing youthful mankind), Brian Swimme's  UNIVERSE IS A GREEN DRAGON tells the miraculous story of the vibrant  existance of our universe.  In masterful storytelling style, Swimme spins a  tale so poetic and electrifying that the story inside this book begins to  seem much more real than much of the rest of &quot;real life&quot;.  As  Thomas explains to the Youth, &quot;To develop the power of cosmic  sensitivity is to understand that to be in reality means dissolving the  universe, absorbing it into your new self.  To be is to dissolve and draw  up, to BE dissolved and drawn up.  The universe is a hard yellow candy, to  be sucked on and swalled until it dissolves, and, in that moment of  dissolution, we emerge.  A hardened mind cannot respond to the presence of  the moon.  The moon's riches cannot be tasted, so the moon can not show  itself.  The interaction between the rigid person and the universe is  superficial, because the sensitivity is dim.&quot;  I feel invigorated  after reading any part of this book... refreshed with a new vision of the  true splendour of this enchanted universe.	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R13FCZ5NGO0EYJ	0874776945	173898034	The Artist's Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity	Books	5	11	13	N	N	This book changed my life!	I adore this book!  It is more than a book, actually, since it is also a class -- one in which the reader can read a chapter each week, do the exercises at the end of the chapter as time permits, and contemplate the  profound insights that follow.  My neighbor loaned me this book at a time  when I needed to take a class in writing.  I couldn't have done any better  than to start with Julia Cameron's jewel of a book!  As a result of reading  this book, I wrote a book and several magazine articles -- and created a  web site devoted to my passion for learning how we shift reality.  There is  indeed an art to becoming an artist, and there are ways to enhance one's  ability to give and receive inspiration.  Thank you, Julia Cameron, for so  graciously sharing these priceless insights with us!	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R3MQ7W558Z847P	1577310977	458940056	Miracles of Mind: Exploring Nonlocal Consciousness and Spritual Healing (Exploring Nonlocal Consciousness and Spiritual Healing)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A spell-binding book	Russell Targ shares his personal experiences with remote-viewing experiments at Stanford Research Institute, and includes fascinating photos and sketches that show the amazing accuracy remote viewers have frequently demonstrated.  Jane Katya shares her personal experiences with healing  touch, and how she came to work in the field of healing using Therapeutic  Touch.  Targ and Katya gracefully take the reader from their real-life  stories to the current physical theories which can best explain non-local  healing and viewing.  This book is spell-binding, since it so carefully  examines seemingly inexplicable phenomena from a very down-to-Earth point  of view.  I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in enriching  their lives through remote viewing and healing.	2000-04-27
US	51273949	R3KWCXAFBI9JCM	088268079X	219933569	REALITY ILLUSION (How You Make the World You Experience)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Looking through illusions to better perceive reality	Ralph Strauch's unique background in both mathematics (working as a Senior Mathematician with the Rand corporation) and the Feldenkrais method of body movement, gives THE REALITY ILLUSION a blended perspective of rational  thinking and physical intelligence.  Strauch suggests exercises to do by  yourself and or with a friend to demonstrate the way our physical strength  and health are altered as we change the focus of our attention.  This book  has excellent illustrations throughout, and is an excellent guidebook for  examining our forms of perception.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R1T0KRD8FRH1XG	1579830021	300756684	Waking Up In Time: Finding Inner Peace In Times of Accelerating Change	Books	5	74	78	N	N	A rare masterpiece	This book is one of those rare books that stays with me long after I've read it.  I find myself frequently referring to it in conversations about how fast things seem to be changing these days.  I was moved by the wisdom  I gleaned in these melodic passages -- and impressed at how Russell can  convey such intense feeling and truth in so few words.  Difficult and  challenging issues are presented and discussed with clarity that provides  just the right amount of tension, just as the most beautiful music creates  moments of stress which are then relieved with passages of exceptional  grace.  Rare is the book that can aim to briefly summarize such topics as  Materialism, Fear, Stress, Enlightenment, Meditation and Love... and  succeed to touch one's heart, mind and soul so completely without ever  hitting a sour note.  I give this masterpiece of a book my highest  recommendation for anyone interested in discovering what they can do to  make their life (and life for all of us) the very best it can be.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R2APL12AHAJX5K	0394710916	537431559	Space, Time & Medicine	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Change your peception of space &amp; time for better health	This book brilliantly describes the essence of how various illnesses may be brought on by our misperceptions of space and time, and what we can do to change our perecpeptions and heal ourselves.  As Dr. Dossey reminds us,  \\"It is not man who is at the mercy of an external `real' time -- it is time  itself which is shaped by man.\\"  Since the effects of urgency can bring  illness upon us, this book is a welcome guide to finding our way back to a  healthier perception of space and time.  Dossey explains how absorbing  activities like fishing or needlepoint can help us kill the relentless push  of time, and bring us to the healing perception of infinite space and time.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	ROVFU1PJN3VSH	1567183840	151209988	Shapeshifter Tarot	Books	5	37	38	N	N	In a class by itself	This gorgeous tarot deck succeeds in so many ways!  The creators of these beautiful cards and companion reference book succeeded at combining elements from many wisdom traditions into the most meaningful divination  deck and book I've yet encountered.  Bravo!  It's rare to find a work of  such beauty, grace and wisdom that is so useful and practical.  Of the  three tarot decks I've used, this one is the very best.  I've used this  deck with friends who've worked with many different decks, and they agree  that Shapeshifter is the most sensitive and information-packed.  The deck  is extremely easy to work with, since the basic meaning of each card  appears on the front of the card.  In addition to the regular cards one  finds in a tarot deck, this deck contains three new major arcana cards (the  Double, the Journey, and the Dreamer), which I found to be some of the most  interesting and useful cards in the deck.  Unless you are already familiar  with a traditional tarot deck that you feel comfortable with, I'm sure  you'll enjoy and probably even prefer this deck.  Obviously, any divination  tools will work (even stones or tortoise shells), but an outstanding tarot  deck like Shapeshifter sets itself apart from all the rest with elegance  and eloquence; it's simply in a class by itself.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R1G6D9X8MXN4O2	0892813539	779926792	Gifts of Unknown Things: A True Story of Nature, Healing, and Initiation from Indonesia's Dancing Island	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	An all-time classic!	Biologist Lyall Watson travels to Indonesia in search of magic... and finds a 'dancing island' and a girl who comes of age to become a shaman and healer.  For those who simply enjoy a good story, this is an excellent  book.  For those who realize that the magic described in this book is real,  it's even better.  Watson is a first-rate story-teller, and I would give  this book ten stars if such a thing were possible!	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R1OS2SEXW7DTAY	0312192967	168675774	The Long Sandy Hair of Neftoon Zamora: A Novel	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Action-packed entertainment	When I read this novel, I felt like I was watching a movie.  This book's plot moves along fluidly, and its characters and setting are enchanting.  I especially love the element of uncertainty regarding the title character,  Neftoon Zamora, and that of the other main character, affectionately known  as &quot;Nez&quot;.  Michael Nesmith seems to have put much of his own  persona into this character... Nez's love of music, cars, and airplanes has  a depth that comes from living with those passions full-time.  I cared  about Nez and whether he would succeed in his quest for the mythological  Neftoon Zamora and the amazing blues music he'd heard on a cassette tape so  much that I brought this book everywhere I went while I was reading it.  I  found several passages in this book to be so entertaining that I read them  aloud to friends, and I am certain I'll be back to read this book again!  I'd also love to see it come out as a movie -- it certainly seems to have  been written with the medium of film in mind.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R2N4V3JO170Y6A	0671696017	473041921	Parallel Universes: The Search for Other Worlds	Books	5	69	78	N	N	A rocketship ride of a book	Fasten your seatbelt and get ready for a rocketship ride of a book that takes you on a quest for parallel universes.  Wolf contemplates how we might perceive these parallel universes, and what it might feel like when  we experience the past and future interacting with the present.  The extra  bonus of this adventure is that Wolf shows you how time is not the steady,  measurable thing you thought it was!  Time is slippery, because it can't  ever be directly observed.  Whereas we can measure and then verify a  measurement of length or weight repeatedly, measurements of time cannot be  easily confirmed.  As Wolf points out so succinctly, \\"Nowhere is there a  value of time associated with an observable called time.  As far as the  equations are concerned, time is just a convenient ordering parameter -- a  way of keeping track of things placed alongside each other in a sequence.\\"  Time travel may well be possible, and you might not even need a time  machine to do it!  If you love to stretch your mind to understand more of  the universe, I highly recommend this book.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R2GEXZH8MHQZ5G	0380717921	875873450	A Dictionary of Mind and Spirit	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A well-crafted metaphysical reference book	Donald Watson brings his extraordinary insight and clarity to this first-rate reference book of spiritual and metaphysical topics.  Watson takes care to present both the meaning and the value of each idea in this  well-illustrated book.  Concepts from many different cultures and time  periods are well represented, so this book is fun to read cover-to-cover  just for the joy of learning about various metaphysical perspectives and  practices.  More than five hundred entries are described in sufficient  detail to satisfy initial curiosity and to pique further interest.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	RPYVC0QV74H53	0816032130	36657020	Alternative Realities: The Paranormal, the Mystic and the Transcendent in Human Experience	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A delightful reference book of extraordinary experiences	This book is an excellent reference book that includes almost every variety of unusual and extraordinary human experience.  Leonard George's writing is clear and down-to-Earth as he describes such esoteric topics as  ESP, telekinesis, lucid dreaming, meditation, and mystical experiences.  I  love the way each entry contains both an explanation and at least one  example, so it's easy to quickly comprehend what is being discussed.  Some  definitions go even farther, and cover the history and background of the  phenomena around the world.  This book is a delightful encyclopedia to  either read sequentially or simply as the need arises to look something up.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R3KWKOX34U7YUR	0062515020	590515841	The Conscious Universe: The Scientific Truth of Psychic Phenomena	Books	5	19	31	N	N	A paradigm-shifting book	This book is a delight to read for anyone who knows that reality isn't what it seems to be... or who is willing to take a very honest look at the nature of reality in all its wildest glory.  Radin presents an excellent  scientific case for the truth of psychic phenomena, using statistics to  examine \\"psi\\" -- the phenomenon that includes the three broad categories of  anomalous phenomenon of psychokinesis (mind-matter interaction),  extra-sensory perception, and survival after bodily death.  Radin excels at  presenting memorable stories along with his clear, concise, and  comprehensible statistics in such a way that one feels compelled to either  accept or reject his findings and the implications they suggest.  This is  an excellent book for reading when you're ready to do your own thinking...  and change the way you view the world.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R1JKIQR0G2MT8M	1569249962	794620960	Encyclopedia of Parapsychology and Psychical Research	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Who's Who of Parapsychology &amp; Psychical Research	This reference book contains over 1,400 entries -- most of which are people who have contributed in some way to a better understanding of consciousness and/or parapsychology.  The appendices of this book are  delightful, for they contain information on research centers and membership  organizations for parapsychology and physical research being conducted  around the world.  While this book was printed in 1991, it is still  valuable for its wealth of biographical information.	2000-04-26
US	51273949	R3DOESLKCIDGZV	0399141618	378956700	The Way of the Explorer: An Apollo Astronaut's Journey Through the Material and Mystical Worlds	Books	5	69	73	N	N	Exploring Invisible Realities	Edgar Mitchell founded the Institute of Noetic Sciences in 1972, as he began a quest for common ground between science and spirit following his life-altering experience of walking on the surface of the moon.  Mitchell's  autobiographical book THE WAY OF THE EXPLORER describes in thrilling detail  his experiences with the Apollo missions, as well as his subsequent  exploration of the fields of consciousness and paranormal phenomenon.  Mitchell's heart-warming accounts of his feelings as he walked on the moon,  and then traveled back through space to see how \\"the heavens and earth  tumbled alternately in and out of view in the small capsule window\\" are  gracefully combined with his insightful observations of the nature of  consciousness and reality.  We can all benefit from experiencing the Earth  as Mitchell does... as one planet interconnected with each and every one of  us.  I was so moved by what Mitchell wrote about seeing Uri Geller bend  spoons and bring lost objects across space and time that it inspired me to  see Geller bend one of my (very SOLID stainless steel spoons) in person in  October 1999.  I love this book's timeless wisdom, beauty, and depth so  much that I return to it again and again.  It's a powerful book that  touches my heart and greatly inspires me!	2000-03-23
US	51273949	R2600J2OHOVXDF	0671728415	866017163	The Matter Myth: Dramatic Discoveries That Challenge Our Understanding of Physical Reality	Books	5	46	49	N	Y	Exploring the Postmechanistic Paradigm	Davies and Gribbin succeed in clarifying some of the most intriguing questions known to mankind, such as \\"How did spacetime come into existence?\\", \\"How can matter appear out of nowhere?\\", \\"Does the future  already exist?\\", and \\"How does spacetime curve?\\"  They delve into  fascinating reasons why your `now' and my `now' are not necessarily the  same thing, and many other exciting implications for our everyday lives  from quantum physics.  What I love most about THE MATTER MYTH is the way it  helps free our thinking from the mechanical, machine-mindedness which has  for so long dominated western thinking... as its authors eloquently assert  that materialism is dead.  The post-mechanistic paradigm is here.	2000-02-22
US	51273949	RYSXXPH46OQH	1571741356	68011698	Future Memory	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	Brain Shift Into High Gear with this Future Classic	Do you wonder what it's like to remember the future? How would it feel to remember events from both your future and your past? PMH Atwater's book, FUTURE MEMORY presents compelling evidence and a fascinating explanation of  the future memory phenomenon, where people prelive future experiences while  still active and functional in present time. Atwater's expertise in the  field of Near Death Experiences (NDE) shines through as she shares many  stories from her personal life and guides readers through the labyrinth of  the mind and the fabric of time, space, and the universe itself. FUTURE  MEMORY masterfully balances subjective experience with relevant theories  and scientific findings, bringing the otherwise lofty material \\"down to  Earth\\" for practical applicability in daily life. We can all experience  expansive brain shifts when we experience the Void that lies at the heart  of All That Is with patience and receptivity... and can benefit  tremendously when our consciousness expands. I felt torn between devouring  this book as quickly as possible and savoring each and every page. If  you've been looking for a book that will shift your mind into higher gear,  this is it!	2000-01-16
US	51273949	R1U9PXGNE77H2A	0694518719	254950790	Be Careful What You Pray For..You Just Might Get It	Books	5	53	57	N	N	Illuminating the Shadow Side of Prayer	Can prayers cause damage and destruction? Do we possess the power to harm others with our minds?  If so, how can we minimize the damage?  Dr. Larry Dossey answers these questions and more as he delves into the topic of the  power of prayer to cause harm in his brilliant book, BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU  WISH FOR. Dossey describes how people utilize negative prayer both  consciously (in order to win at a game or in business), and unconsciously  (venting feelings and thoughts without regard for the effects on the  recipients)... and he covers a wide spectrum of negative prayers from the  sophisticated curses and hexes of sorcerers to the more common varieties of  \\"drive-by prayer\\" and \\"prayer muggings\\". Those who work with prayer every  day, such as sorcerers and priests, know better than to make idly damaging  statements such as, \\"he ought to be shot\\", or \\"I hope he chokes\\" -- and  Dossey includes some fascinating stories of how such thoughts have  precipitated real physical effects. This book is essential reading for  anyone seeking a better understanding of how to understand and protect  oneself from negative prayer, even when those prayers come from  well-meaning friends, family, and colleagues.	1999-12-23
US	51273949	RGTI2LD2ZKL1X	068485578X	800759336	Q Is for Quantum : An Encyclopedia of Particle Physics	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Q is for Quintessential Quantum Reference Book	This quantum physics encyclopedia is beautifully crafted to be as entertaining as it is informative.  John Gribbin is a master at providing an element of human interest to each of the entries in Q IS FOR QUANTUM,  along with photographs and illustrations in every place you'd wish for  them, in order to further enhance the reading experience.  I love browsing  through this book any time I have the slightest excuse, and I suspect you  will, too!	1999-12-11
US	51273949	R24I3P0L8URMGH	0393046885	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A Feast of a Book!	This book is a sheer delight to read!  Brian Greene's clarity of thinking and joy of exploring the quest for the ultimate physics theory come clearly through as he describes how superstrings just might be the &quot;common  thread&quot; that runs through this universe from the tiniest quantum bits  to the largest relativistic bodies.  Are you curious to know how all these  dimensions can exist in our universe unseen?  Greene brilliantly describes  memorable analogies (such as an ant seen from a distance to be walking  along on a garden hose) that give readers a clear sense of what hidden  curled dimensions might feel like... and he writes about physics with such  grace and style!  If you've hungered to know how to better understand  hidden dimensions and superstrings, this book is guaranteed to first pique  and then satisfy your appetite.	1999-12-06
US	51273949	RUPZ64H7N4CAI	0062516221	463923781	Reinventing Medicine: Beyond Mind-Body to a New Era of Healing	Books	5	56	57	N	N	See the world in a whole new way	Have you ever suspected that healing requires something more than either an entirely body-based approach... or even a mind-body approach? Would you like to better understand how powerful prayer really is for healing? If so,  you'll love Larry Dossey's book, &quot;Reinventing Medicine&quot;, in which  he describes this new era of non-local medicine. Dossey cites very  convincing scientific studies that indicate healing can be achieved at a  distance by directing loving thoughts, intentions and prayers to others --  even if they are not aware that these loving thoughts are being extended to  them. Dossey's revolutionary book inspires us to consider the healing power  of what he calls Eternity Medicine in our everyday lives right now. I get  goose-bumps of excitement and joy each time I read this book, and give it  my highest recommendation.	1999-11-28
US	51273949	R3XL0MO3R2F8W	0684801590	330090239	The Dreaming Universe: A Mind-Expanding Journey Into the Realm Where Psyche and Physics Meet	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A provocative exploration of lucidity &amp; consciousness	The Dreaming Universe picks up where most lucid dreaming books leave off... and challenges the reader to consider the deeper implications and significance of dreaming and reality.  This book will excite and stimulate  anyone already interested in the subjects of lucid dreaming or  consciousness as it raises new questions and combines old ideas in creative  new ways as only Wolf can do -- with his unique in-depth experience with  physics, spirituality, and magic.	1999-04-14
US	51273949	R3SUR53RKJAPME	0671792911	923858938	The Eagle's Quest: A Physicist Finds the Scientific Truth at the Heart of the Shamanic World	Books	5	52	59	N	N	A classic book on shamanism -- a real page-turner!	This book stands out as one of the best books on shamanism I've ever seen.  The Eagle's Quest is remarkable because it maps concepts from modern physics into the ancient shamanistic world... all the while following the  Wolf's very personal true story of his quest for deeper understanding.  Because Wolf really wishes to know what's going on in the universe, his  book is thorough in its investigations of old world shamanism.  This is one  of the best books I've ever read combining spirituality and physics:  it's  full of useful information and well-written.  I love all of Fred Alan  Wolf's books, and this one is especially enjoyable to me, because it was  truly written from his heart.  This book is a classic.	1999-04-14
