US	51274086	R2SLWCT9FMNUDT	1879373718	306690436	The Man Who Made Ireland: The Life and Death of Michael Collins	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A true tour-de-force	Coogan's biography of Collins is often called the definitive one and for good reason: no other author to date has undertaken the sheer level of work studying the life of Collins, period. Coogan walks the reader through virtually every aspect of Michael's life, some good, some bad, some momentous, and some minor. His preface to the American edition alone is phenomenal. His biography (as most tend to do) goes in chronological order, from Michael's birth to his poignant assassination in 1922. We are given the details of Michael's family life, his friends, his comrades, his guerrilla warfare tactics, his temperament, his favorite books, etc., etc. Coogan's chapters are as follows: The Little Fella, Easter 1916, Kicking Down a Rotten Door, The Twelve Apostles, The Year of Terror, The Sky Darkens, Peace Comes Dropping Slow, Settling This Old Strife, Fighting the Waves, Wading Through Blood, Setting up the Six, The Mouth of Flowers, and Honouring the Dead. There are also notes, an appendix, and many b/w photos. Coogan spends a good deal of time on the Easter Rising, the events surrounding Bloody Sunday, and the negotiating of the Anglo-Irish Treaty. He also addresses several of the controversial issues surrounding Michael's life and death, e.g. allegations that Collins was a homosexual, claims that de Valera might have instigated Collins' assassination, and Collins' supposed dalliances. Although Coogan's writing is not what I would particularly call easy or light reading, I do believe this selection could make a good starter book for anyone's investigation of Michael Collins. If you are interested in any way in Collins' life and times, you absolutely must own this book.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	RWVSSQ54G6C59	0853429316	814358824	Michael Collins: The Man Who Won the War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Focused Look at Collins' Political Career	Dwyer tackles his Collins biography by focusing on Michael's roles as a military man and a politico. As a matter of fact, Dwyer's opening chapter addresses the speech from which his subtitle was taken: Arthur Griffith's proclamation in the Irish Dil that Collins was \\"the man who won the war.\\" From there, Dwyer explores Collins' part in the Easter Rising, his productive time in jail, and his reintroduction to the republican movement in Dublin. The core of the book is dedicated to how Collins dismantled the system of British counter-intelligence in Ireland and the subsequent retalliation, Bloody Sunday. The last thirty pages examine Collins' duty in negotiating and then defending the Anglo-Irish Treaty. Collins' assassination and the aftermath of his death are not discussed. In the epilogue, Dwyer takes a moment to reassess Collins' awe-inspiring contributions to Irish independence and the sad conflict that developed between he and de Valera. Throughout the work, it is easy to see that Dwyer is obviously an admirer of Collins and pulls no punches as he evaluates de Valera, his followers, and the anti-Treatyites. He is not afraid to inject his own opinion into the text and such commentary is part of what causes Dwyer's biography to stand out from the rest of the pack. All things considered, this book is well worth your time, especially if you already have a basic knowledge about Collins' life and would like to know more. Because this book really contains no information on Collins' younger years, his early work in London, or the months prior to his death, I would not recommend it as a good Collins biography to read first. Make Dwyer's work second or third on your list.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	RUKTPB21F9QLC	0140212647	392883653	A History of Modern Ireland (Pelican)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Outdated, Outmoded, and Just Plain Out There	It seems to me that the most appealing versions of the struggle for Irish independence have been told by the Irish side, meaning those within the Irish independence movement know of what they speak because they've lived it. Norman's book is far and away _not_ that type of Irish history account. Whether Norman intends for it to or not, there are times when this book reads very much like a pompous authority pontificating to the Irish what they ought to think about the Northern Question. This arrogance so offended the Irish press when this book was published that Norman actually wrote a preface to address it! (That should signal the reader to comb through this title with a skeptical outlook.) Norman writes that &quot;the Irish are too great a people not to be able to bear with an external view of their history.&quot; For once, I am forced to agree with him. As an American with respect and deference for Irish history, I simply must come at the issues with an outsider's perspective. But that doesn't excuse the hubristic action of instructing the Irish on how they ought to feel about their own history and that is precisely what I think Norman does throughout this book. Moreover, some of the &quot;facts&quot; Norman states are shaky at best. He purports that &quot;Ireland enjoyed considerable stability&quot; from 1801 to 1922 and that the nationalists and radicalists have propagandized the alleged unrest in Ireland at the time. Throughout the book, Norman tries to absolve the English government of any culpability by pointing to religion, agriculture, and the rural lifestyle as agents for any instability that might have occurred. He tries to denounce Parnell's accomplishments for Ireland by personally attacking his character rather than his politics (a blatant ad hominem logical fallacy that does not belong in an academic piece). In discussing the Treaty, little is actually said of the Irish delegation at all. Norman appears to be critical of Collins, de Valera, and men whofell on both sides of the Treaty debate. In fact, it seems to me that he is no fan of the necessary British compromise in negotiating the treaty, period. No wonder Norman recalls how one Irish newspaper remarked that parts of his book &quot;read 'like a Black-and-Tan handout.'&quot; This book was published in the early 1970s and covers only the years from 1800 to 1969. I can only see giving it two stars because it does serve as an example of what history texts can degrade to: smug and didactic.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	RPCF0JR30UGYV	0826400620	924997402	Irish nationalism: A history of its roots and ideology	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Quite Good	Cronin attempts a very difficult task, cataloging Irish nationalism in terms of its roots and ideology, and for the most part, I believe he succeeds. Straightaway, he provides forty pages of introductory material for the reader as a kind of whirlwind crash-course on Irish history. From there, Cronin focuses on specifics. First, Wolfe Tone and the United Irishman. Next, the Young Ireland movement, the late 19th / early 20th century battle for independence, the post Anglo-Irish Treaty ramifications, the climate in Northern Ireland during the 1970s, and finally, his own conclusions. Cronin includes notes, appendices, and a glossary to assist the reader as well. Though I think the book is quite good and certainly worth owning, I have two major criticisms: a) the book is dated at this point and b) Cronin's writing becomes biased in a few passages. This book was published in 1981 so suffice it to say that a great many pertinent, weighty events have occured in Northern Irish history since then. That's the first setback. The second is even more off-putting for me. There are passages that suggest (to me anyway) that Cronin is writing from what I would label an anti-Treaty, pro-de Valera, pro-ideological purity side. In the end, however, I feel Cronin's conclusions are sound. On page 236, he writes, &quot;The ideology of Irish nationalism will continue to ripple the political waters until its conception of nationhood is achieved: when all in Ireland can live as citizens under their own government in their own state.&quot; With more than twenty years of hindsight on Cronin's work, I think history has proven his statement right.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R34X1MZ2VK9Y4G	0684855569	185928851	For the Cause of Liberty: A Thousand Years of Ireland's Heroes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ideal for its Purpose	Evaluating Golway's book in terms of its subtitle-- a thousand years of Ireland's heroes-- I think this selection is fantastic. As a semi-biographical profile of many prominent, legendary, and simply amazing Irish revolutionaries, this book does exactly what it should. Golway discusses such notables as Brian Boru, the O'Neill family, Wolfe Tone, Daniel O'Connell, Charles Stewart Parnell, Arthur Griffith, O'Donovan Rossa, Kevin Barry, Richard Mulcahy, the leaders of the Easter Rising, Eamon de Valera, Michael Collins, Kevin Barry, Bobby Sands, Countess Markievicz, Bernadette Devlin, and many more. Other reviewers have summarized quite well what the book is; I would like to provide readers with an idea of what the book is not. This would make excellent supplementary reading for anyone with an interest in Irish history. However, Golway does focus on elements of biography and therefore does presume a fair bit of knowledge on the part of the audience. If you are looking for a good starting point in learning about Irish history, I would not suggest this title. On the other hand, if you already have a general working knowledge about Ireland, these biographies would very, very much enrich your experience. Bottom line: buy it for the biographies and consider any Irish history you pick up along the way an added bonus.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R2ZBNA11L6C8UO	0760708797	938873121	An Irish Century 1845 - 1945	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Visually Impressive	The size and weight of this make it more of a coffee table book than a typical academic hardback. The obvious advantage to this is that Small has more room for b/w photos, which he uses copiously. As the title suggests, Small covers Ireland from 1845 to 1945, from the famine to the end of WWII. Though it is useful as a history text, the book truly showcases wonderful photographs, some of well-known Irish personalities and some of the beautiful rural landscape. There are newspaper sketches and political cartoons to illustrate the changes that took place throughout the 100 year span Small addresses. He divides the book into six parts: From Famine to Parnell, Independence and Beyond, The United States Connection, Working Life, Arts and Literature, and Religion. He also includes relevant timelines at the book's conclusion. The first two sections focus on politics, the third on the tremendous kinship shared between Ireland and America, the fourth on agriculture and the changes in Irish industry, the fifth on Ireland's many magnificent contributions to the humanities, and the sixth on Ireland's important religious composition. I believe this is a very good book on Irish history and I am quite surprised that it has gone out-of-print. If you are able to find a copy, buy it. Both the gorgeous pictures and the text are well worth your money.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R29EXURJWX6XBJ	0064713881	891760892	History of Ireland	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good, not Great	The authors are clear from the preface that this is but a short history of Ireland. Indeed, it covers many crucial events in lightning-fast time. For anyone looking to quickly absorb basic information about Irish history, this would be a good selection. For anyone looking to dig beyond surface issues, this would not be a good fit. For example, the history of Ireland from the Stone Age (I kid you not) to the Battle of Boyne takes only 160 pages. From 1690 to 1922, 158. Beyond that, modern Northern Irish history is synopsized into only a few pages. To the book's credit, the writing is highly accessible and easy to understand. The b/w illustrations peppered throughout the text are an added bonus as well. Undoubtedly, the authors faced a daunting task in trying to produce a work that would include major events in Irish history yet not overwhelm the reader by becoming a thick, esoteric tome. In the right context-- that of Irish history newcomer-- this book would be a good choice. For someone hoping to delve into the extremely complex, intellectually arduous issues in Irish history, this book would be repetitive at best.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R3C01X95TFKX9G	1879373998	267757181	The Ira: A History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Far from perfect but pretty darn good	In typical form, Tim Pat Coogan can be labeled nothing if not thorough. Undoubtedly a 500 page book cannot cover each important event or key figure in the IRA's fascinating, tumultuous history, but I believe Coogan makes a true effort to write a piece worth reading. He divides the text into four basic parts: Beginnings to 1969, 1969-79, 1979-86, and 1986-94. There are also appendices, references, maps, b/w photos, and a useful glossary. In my opinion, Coogan balances his personal feelings about the IRA with a decent sense of journalistic objectivism. Having said that, however, I would affirm what other reviewers have noted regarding Coogan's clear support for (or, at the very least, distant admiration of) the IRA. If you are seeking a selection from a more critical ideological position, look elsewhere. I will also agree that the text itself is in need of serious editing. It seems that there are grammatical errors on every other page and though I hate to nitpick, those errors do detract from the overall credibility of the book. Nevertheless, if you are doing any type of academic research on the IRA, I would strongly suggest this title. Beware: it does presume a fair amount of knowledge from the start so choose it after you have already gained the basics of Irish/Northern Irish history.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R2WPEH2NDSF3FE	185158949X	150004679	Michael Collins: A Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Collins the Thinker, Collins the Military Man	For anyone wishing to know more about the bombastic, bullish side of Michael Collins, look no further. James MacKay captures Collins' thoughts-- even the most flamboyant-- with style and verbal panache. It is clear that his work has been very heavily influenced by the biographies from Frank O'Connor and Tim Pat Coogan, but MacKay distinguishes himself by emphasizing Collins' personality and his military accomplishments. He describes Michael's physical stature (5'11&quot; with a bulky build), Michael's nature (quick to laugh, quick to cry, quick to anger, and quick to make an apology), Michael's health (his bouts with pleurisy, Spanish flu, stomach and kidney problems), Michael's orderly manner (he hated pencil writing and signatures from rubber stamps), and Michael's many other contradictions. MacKay includes several b/w photos along with explorations of Michael's military brilliance, e.g. his ability to run an entire guerrilla war from the back of a bicycle. MacKay begins with Collins' boyhood and concludes with an epilogue regarding the aftermath of Collins' assassination. If you are curious about Michael Collins the man, I can strongly recommend MacKay's biography.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	RBQHMRRN868O5	0393316459	277172029	Michael Collins and the Troubles: The Struggle for Irish Freedom 1912-1922	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good, But Probably Mistitled	O'Connor's title suggests that this book is strictly a biography of Michael Collins focused on the years 1912 through 1922. In actuality, it covers a wide range of people and events and I cannot recommend it strictly as a Collins biography. However, as a history book that happens to have an emphasis on Collins, particularly in the latter part, I can recommend it. O'Connor has relied on materials from the library of General Richard Mulcahy (the IRA's chief of staff in Collins' time) and on interviews with Eamon de Valera, et al. For those reasons alone, I believe it is worth at least a cursory glance. Because of O'Connor's interest in and work for the Abbey Theatre, this book does emphasize literature and the arts in terms of how they fueled the independence movement. For someone interested in humanities as well as history, this would be one of O'Connor's advantages. This selection is divided only into numbered chapters rather than parts and that can be a bit irritating at times, especially because this is not a traditional biography. Chapter One actually begins by discussing Charles Stewart Parnell and the untimely end of his career. From there, the reader is taken quickly through the Irish political climate from the late 1800s to 1912. It is not until the last third of the book that the audience learns of specific ways Collins kept the republican struggle afloat in tough times. Therefore, this book's usefulness can only be determined by what you intend to use it for. If you are trying to accumulate materials for a general study of modern Irish history, this book is worth owning. If you are looking for a typical Collins biography, this wouldn't be the best starting point.	2003-06-25
US	51274086	R3DSUO03FIYBPS	1856352110	240362638	Michael Collins and the Making of the Irish State	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Anthology	Though I had some difficulty tracking this title down, finding it was well worth my effort. This book contains articles by the editors, Mary Banotti (grandniece of Collins' and MEP), Joe Lee, Margot Gearty, Gearóid OSullivan, Dr. Andrew McCarthy, Eunan OHalpin, Peter Young, Éamon Phoenix, John Regan, Deirdre McMahon, Diarmuid \\" Giolláin, Tom Garvin, Martin Mansergh, and Ronan Fanning. To someone already familiar with Irish history, many of these names are recognizable and to the Irish history newcomer, expect to learn a lot. As one review noted, these articles do presume at the very least a rudimentary knowledge of Irish history. If you are looking to read your first book on the subject, I would suggest starting out with something less difficult. For the history buff with a die-hard interest in Michael Collins, this book provides intriguing, absorbing information. It includes Collins experiences in Granard with the Kiernan family, Collins relationships both romantic and platonic, Collins role as Minister for Finance and Director of Intelligence, Collins military skills, Collins place in the Northern Question, the possibility that Collins died intestate, Collins biographers, Collins and propaganda funerals, Collins and de Valera, etc., etc. The book also includes several b/w photos, two of which I hadnt seen before. For anyone conducting academic research on Collins or for anyone simply reading about his life for personal enrichment, I would highly recommend this book as an unbeatable addition to your library.	2003-06-20
US	51274086	RWBO8S7S48G1I	1566198208	851394715	The Black and Tans	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent Profile of the Black-and-Tan Terror	Richard Bennett describes the work of the Black and Tan soldiers in Ireland near the turn of the last century. He labels them as \\"the toughest, the wildest, and the most feared\\" of all British soldiers. The Black and Tans were sent to Ireland in 1920 by Prime Minister David Lloyd George to suppress the growing republican movement. As history shows, their violence did not squelch the drive for independence. The Black and Tans were essentially given carte blanche and they used it. They tortured and murdered Irish citizens at will. The soldiers received their name because of their uniforms-- it so happened that a pack of wild dogs that once tormented County Limerick had similar colorings as the soldiers' uniforms and thus the nickname stuck. By the next year, the Black and Tans had been so successful in their mission that even the British tide of opinion shifted against them. Bennett, who was a military man himself, articulately recounts the havoc wreaked on Ireland by the Black and Tans and does an excellent job of placing the reader right in the environment. It is also worth noting that the book comes with many wonderful b/w photos of the time.	2003-06-19
US	51274086	RBC9X6MF02L6F	0674636554	235688772	On Revolt: Strategies of National Liberation (Center for International Affairs)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worth Tracking Down	Though I believe this book has long since gone out-of-print, it is worth your while to track it down. Bell covers revolts in South Africa, Northern Ireland, Palestine, Egypt, Kenya, and Malaysia. But he also discusses how revolt works and why groups feel the need to rebel against their governments in the first place. The contents are divided into four parts: Revolts &amp; Strategies of National Liberation, Revolts Against the Crown, On Revolt- Matrix, Models, and a Template, and The Rebel Vocation. Bell focuses particularly on revolts against the British Empire and the collapse of British power over the last century. The book was published in 1976 so obviously it is rather out-of-date but Bell's theories are still solid and do pass the proverbial test of time. I would highly recommend it to any student of history, government, and/or political science and I have personally found it very useful as a research tool.	2003-06-19
US	51274086	R3037LXSZ847KS	0807002178	776269640	Belfast Diary: War as a Way of Life	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Necessary Read for the American Audience	This book was recommended to me as excellent reading about the Troubles, particularly for Americans. I whole-heartedly agree; it is all that and more. Conroy does describe the daily workings of life in Northern Ireland but he also tackles the prejudices and ignorance of Americans (and the U.S. government) when it comes to the political climate in Northern Ireland. He pulls no punches and sugar-coats no issues. He explicates the situation as he sees it and is not afraid to indict those who turn blind eyes. The version I read was older so I have not yet seen the updated book that includes information on semi-recent IRA ceasefires. But I do think many of Conroy's observations are still applicable, changes in administration notwithstanding. He describes the intolerant view towards Sinn Fein taken by the American government in the 80s and the biased, oversimplified treatment of the Troubles by the American media. Indeed as Conroy notes it has not been hard to sell the British point-of-view to American audiences but what of the counterpoint? When do proponents of the other side get a chance? Conroy also concludes that for as long as Northern Ireland remains a British enclave, continued violence is guaranteed. For that reason alone, Americans owe it to themselves to read _Belfast Diary_.	2003-06-19
US	51274086	R3BXUDMUHL1SFL	0312144784	478626563	Rebel Hearts : Journeys Within the IRA's Soul	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Both Profound &amp; Better than Expected	I read _Rebel Hearts_ as part of my research for my senior thesis on the Northern Question and found it better than I ever imagined. While it does indeed profile the lives of particular IRA members (as already mentioned by other reviewers), it does so much more: it delves into the psychology of how and why the IRA exists and operates. To me, this is a much bigger issue than individual biographies, as good as they are. From the book's preface, Toolis is clear about his position: he foresees peace in Ireland only through &quot;a transfer of power away from the British Crown.&quot; He explores Irish martyrdom, politics, history, and methodology, though I would caution that this book is no crash-course on Irish history. If you are looking to know more about that subject, _Rebel Hearts_ already presumes a fair amount of knowledge. (But Toolis does include a list of abbreviations at the beginning.) Toolis delves into the link between politics and religion without browbeating the reader and he thoroughly explains the deep-seated spiritual issues that accompany the political conflicts in Northern Ireland. His compelling conclusion at the book's close gave me goosebumps as I read it: &quot;There will be peace in Ireland and it will be a republican peace.&quot; Here, here.	2003-06-18
US	51274086	R2F2GGSKCIAG5U	0895776499	878214089	Famous love letters	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Good Collection	This compilation of letters is divided by the editor into four major categories: Love Down the Ages, Passionate Love, Star-Crossed Lovers, and Joys &amp; Consolations. It features letters from Goethe, Napoleon, Lord Byron, Frida Kahlo, Catherine of Aragon, Kafka, Mozart, Churchill, and many others. It is filled with pictures and the editor provides at least one page of backstory for each couple. My only complaint about the book is that it contains only one letter per couple and, in several cases, the example used is only an excerpt rather than the letter's full text. The lush illustrations and the history lessons make up for this flaw in the end, but if you are shopping for a truly prolific collection of letters, this book would probably not be the right selection.	2003-06-18
US	51274086	RS23C4N62S9VF	0255364121	641089022	Democratic Values and the Currency (Occasional Paper)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I admit, unless you consider economic treatises to be great leisure reading, this is not the type of book one would pick up for a light afternoon read. But it is, however, interesting and articulate. Including the foreword (by Colin Robinson of the Institute for Economic Affairs) and the postscript (by Martin Feldstein), the actual text of the whole work is less than thirty pages so it will require only a short investment of time, which is welcome news to anyone reading it as a student or using it for a research project. Certainly, this is a Eurosceptic piece that outlines Portillo's views on why a single currency is not prudent and how it negatively impacts democracy. This is made quite clear. But it's more than that. It also outlines the reasons why people feel frustrated with government, e.g. they feel they are not being heard, they feel their government is detached from them or too far away geographically, they feel they are not accurately represented, etc. The back cover of the book lists ten contentions made by Portillo and these make for an even faster summary of the work if you are in a major rush to absorb its information. I believe this would be very useful to anyone working on economic or political research regarding the Euro, current affairs in the UK, or even the underlying reasons behind political unrest. I felt it was a good value for the time and money spent.	2003-01-13
US	51274086	RN626G9VD3L2O	1580631991	469959065	The 90/10 Weight-Loss Plan: A Scientifically Desinged Balance of Healthy Foods and Fun Foods	Books	5	148	152	N	N	Exactly What I Needed	Let me first say that I am not the kind of person who believes one eating plan fits all or that the entire population of the world should be eating the same way. People are different and have varying needs so I would never advise anyone else that this book is the only choice and that everyone must or must not follow Bauer's plan. But, speaking for myself and my own progress, I am extremely glad I found this book and I do believe it spared me from a life of obesity, a direction I was headed in quickly. I was a healthy weight throughout high school because of nutritious eating and regular exercise, but after I got into college, the extra pounds piled on. And I don't just mean five or ten or even twenty-- I mean sixty or more. I am five feet tall and thus carrying around that much extra weight had a major impact on how I looked and felt. At my highest, I was at least 180 lbs. I wanted to lose this weight before I moved on to graduate studies, but, with my senior year fast approaching, I didn't know what to do. I saw plenty of ads for fad diets, pills, shakes, etc., and I was scared that following such a plan would be dangerous and leave me worse off than before I started. Fortuitously, I saw Joy Bauer on TV one afternoon promoting this book and the logic sounded simple: eat healthy foods 90 percent of the time and junk foods 10 percent of the time. Marry this notion with portion control and voila. I ordered the book from Amazon and couldn't wait for it to come in the mail. I followed her advice from the first day after I finished reading the book and I also began an exercise regimen of walking at least five days a week. What a difference! I started on the 1600 calorie diet and after about one month, I stepped down to the 1400 calorie diet. Today, I usually oscillate between the two. As of now, I have lost almost sixty pounds and am continuing to lose the rest a little at a time. (Rest assured, though, I did see results within two weeks just as the book promises. Aftermy first two weeks on the 90/10 Plan, I had already trimmed off ten pounds, a feat I thought I might never accomplish.) There have been days when I did not follow the plan religiously, especially on birthdays and special occasions when eating cake or going out for dinner was on the agenda. But I still lost weight and I believe regular exercise carried me through the days when I wasn't eating healthy at all. I also have not eaten only Bauer's menu suggestions. She lists the breakdown of how many calories you should consume at each meal under each plan and I follow that as a guideline. If I feel like a TV dinner, can of soup, homemade meal, etc., instead of one of Bauer's suggestions, I have what I want but follow her caloric limitations. A long story short, I found this to be a plan I could stick with, a plan that helped me tremendously, a plan that I feel healthy and energetic on, and a plan that I would recommend to any friend. If you are serious about a lifestyle change, not a temporary quick fix, and are ready to exercise at least a little bit in addition, I would definitely suggest you pick up a copy of this book.	2003-01-13
US	51274086	RBH4XMI4DF5BD	0810934515	101132912	Masters of Art: Ingres	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Good information on Ingres with fantastic colorplates.	Whether you have a casual interest in the life and/or works of Ingres or you are a dedicated admirer, you are sure to find yourself enjoying this book. There are approximately 40 pages of text mingled with relevant b/w illustrations, some by Ingres, some by a variety of other artists including Picasso, Raphael, Poussin, Delacroix, Courbet, and Matisse. The author compares Ingres to Picasso because of his ability to take on many forms in his artwork while remaining true to himself. He also discusses the tension between Ingres and Delacroix over visible brushstrokes and the use of color. Ingres is described in this book as being &quot;one of the greatest draftsmen of all time&quot; and it is easy to understand why when examining the colorplates. There are 151 illustrations in all with 40 plates in color. Included in the colorplate section are _Bonaparte as First Consul_, _Bather of Valpincon_, _Oedipus and the Sphinx_, _The Turkish Bath_, _The Dream of Ossian_, and _Grande Odalisque_, among others. Each colorplate comes with an extensive commentary by the author that includes historical background and an analysis of the work's artistic merits. This is absolutely a great buy for *anyone* interested in Ingres.	2002-06-04
US	51274086	R2EBSB15AA4CML	0486211487	71375199	Greek Revival Architecture in America	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Excellent Profile of Greek Revival Architecture	If you have ever been curious about Greek design elements in American architecture, particularly early American architecture, this is *the* book for you. It has an articulate forward by Leopold Arnaud, then dean of Columbia University's architectural school, and a number of b/w photo examples as well as floor plan models. The chapters cover the background of the Greek Revival, including its impact on post-colonial architecture and Jeffersonian architecture, its role as America's first true style, its role in maturing American architecture, its presence in cities like Philadelphia, Boston, and New York, its presence in regions like New England, the South, the Gulf Coast, and the Pacific Northwest. The book also explores the reasons why the Greek Revival fell out of fashion and has two appendices discussing additional styles inspired by the Greek Revival and some relevant articles published about the Greek Revival prior to 1851. Please be advised that while this book is highly comprehensive, its focus is on the first half of the 19th century and architecture's changing shape during the Civil War is therefore not discussed. The photos, ornaments, illustrations and figures are too profuse to count. Though they are all in black and white, you are certainly getting a good value by the sheer number of photos alone. If you are at all interested in architecture pertaining to Classicism, Neoclassicm, Early Americana, and certainly, the Greek Revival, this book is a must have.	2002-06-04
US	51274086	R37M6U5QVYKBUT	1568332130	237384519	The  Path to Freedom	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Michael Collins the Thinker	It is difficult to top a book on Michael Collins composed primarily of his own words. After all, what better way to peek into his brilliant mind than by reading his words? This book was indeed published to coincide with the release of Neil Jordan's film in 1996, ostensibly to give curious moviegoers a way to better understand Collins before or after viewing the biopic. Tim Pat Coogan's foreword to the book is excellent and shows him in his usual top form. The book's chapters are \\"Advance and Use Our Liberties,\\" \\"Alternative to the Treaty,\\" \\"The Proof of Success,\\" \\"Four Historic Years,\\" \\"Collapse of the Terror,\\" \\"Partition Act's Failure,\\" \\"Why Britain Sought Irish Peace,\\" \\"Distinctive Culture,\\" \\"Building up Ireland,\\" and \\"Freedom within Grasp.\\" This book sheds light on how articulate, well read, historically aware and insightful Collins actually was. It is too often thought that Collins was a country bumpkin whose knowledge of anything beyond 'murder and mayhem' was quite limited. This simply isn't the case and it becomes apparent almost immediately into the book that Collins was a more than capable thinker. Collins discusses Ireland's tumultuous history, the accomplishments of the Easter Rising, the political events of 1914-1918, the many aspects of British rule, the potential resources of Ireland, and the work of Sinn Féin. <br />If you are looking for a traditional biography on Collins, this is probably not the right selection for you. _Michael Collins: The Man Who Made Ireland_, the book Tim Pat Coogan excerpted his foreword from, would be a much better fit for that need. If you are already basically familiar with the life and times of Collins, this book will give you a much richer sense of how his mind worked.	2002-03-29
US	51274086	R272FB8J840NOW	1856351661	350251379	Michael Collins and the Women in His Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Women Who Helped a Great Man	Meda Ryan proves that indeed if a man is great, he must have great women in his life. The love life of Michael Collins has been the topic of everything from serious historical pursuit to fanciful gossip and Ryan attempts to shed accurate light on what Collins's love life was actually like. Ryan begins with Michael's childhood. Collins was raised mostly by women. His father died when Michael was only six and the young Collins was cared for by his mother, grandmother and sisters. When Collins went to England to work at a postal savings bank and gain business experience, he lived with his sister Johanna and was given valuable advice by his sister Hannie who had worked in a postal savings bank herself. Ryan introduces us to Susan Killeen, Collins's first real girlfriend. He met Susan while in London and his cousin, Nancy O'Brien (the cousin who copied countless files for him), noted that Michael was rather popular with his female co-workers. Ryan also discusses Collins's relationships with Sinéad Mason, a friend and secretary, and Madeline Dicker, another girlfriend. Ryan addresses the rumors that Collins had affairs with Lady Hazel Lavery and Moya Llewelyn Davies. The most notable relationship Collins had was with his fiancée, Kitty Kiernan, and Ryan covers the details of their love in a fairly thorough manner. <br />If you are looking for a traditional biography of Michael Collins, an introduction to Collins's life and times, or any type of conventional history text, this book is probably not for you. This is the type of book that will likely appeal to those already basically familiar with Collins's story but who are interested in learning more about his personal life. If you already have a good sense of the history of the time and want to know the stories behind the many women who assisted Collins both personally and professionally, this would be an excellent selection.	2002-03-29
US	51274086	R3JLN9YIPZKFV9	1853710415	256066645	The Day Michael Collins was Shot	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Engrossing Research into Collins's Assassination	Meda Ryan attempts to tackle a very difficult task: determining who shot Michael Collins on that ill-fated day in 1922. In the book's preface, Ryan shares her reasons for wanting to examine the topic and her research methods in compiling the book. In Part I of the introduction, Ryan provides a short biography of Collins's life from his birth to June 1922. In Part II, she covers the last two months of Collins's life and the marrow of the book begins. Ryan supplies several great pictures and several maps of Béal na mBláth. Her evidence consists of eye-witness accounts, letters, telephone conversations and newspaper clippings. <br />Ryan takes us on a rollercoaster of facts and emotions as the story progresses. The basic theories she tackles are: Collins was hit from behind by IRA members headed to Kerry, Collins was hit by a member of his own party by a close range bullet from the armoured car, Collins was hit by a ricocheted bullet, and Collins was hit by a bullet fired by an IRA member. After dissecting the response of the medical examiners, the embalmer, the men who supposedly buried the cap Collins was wearing on the day he was killed, and the testimony of Emmet Dalton, Collins's friend and comrade who was with him that day, Ryan does give a firm conclusion as to who the shooter was. She dispels the theories that Collins was shot by a bullet from a Mauser pistol and that Collins was killed by a ricocheted bullet. So who shot Michael Collins according to Ryan's studies? Read this engrossing book to find out!	2002-03-29
US	51274086	R2OTWF8TLYX5IW	0856406147	935306448	Michael Collins: The Secret File	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Amazing and Interesting Secrets Revealed	Simple copies of the secret files that were kept on Michael Collins would have been wonderful enough, but A.T.Q. Stewart's articulate introduction to the material makes for a truly outstanding reading experience. The introduction is well decorated with a number of black-and-white photos, some that will probably be familiar (e.g.- the uniformed General Collins and Collins posing with Arthur Griffith before the Treaty negotiations) and some that will be new to the eye. The actual text of this book consists of just over 100 copies of documents regarding Collins. A particularly telling document speaks of Collins as \\"a young man of fair complexion, clean shaven, strong jaws and features\\" who \\"belongs to a family of `brainy' people.\\" Stewart mentions this passage in his introduction and relates the astonishing story of how Collins was smuggled into the G-division of Dublin's Metropolitan Police HQs to read the files kept there. He narrowly missed being discovered and was able to read that amusing statement about himself.<br />This book reveals as much about the Irish struggle for independence and the bloody civil war that followed as it does about the life of Collins. The fact that reading this text is tantamount to reading pieces of history makes the adventure take on a very real dimension; the names you encounter are names of actual people rather than fictional characters. I believe this book to be a great investment for anyone interested in the Irish pursuit of independence, the Troubles, and/or the life of Michael Collins. If, however, you are looking for an introduction to the life and times of Collins, I would suggest that you pick up a traditional biography of him (see the works of Frank O'Connor or Tim Pat Coogan) rather than this title simply because the names, dates and places will mean much more to you if you are already acquainted with the basic story before you dig in.	2002-02-18
US	51274086	R3VTNFD7EROWAD	0061050334	301817583	The Book of End Times	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cool View of Impending Doom and its Prophets	As described in the prologue, this book deals with the idea of apocalypse apart from millennium fever and doomsday prophets. \\"It is the premise of this short book...that millennium fever is nonsense, but that apocalypse is not...whenever it is suggested that the human race is approaching a turning point in its long and heavy-handed sovereignty over planet Earth-and that we do not yet know the nature of the new world to come-sense is being spoken...\\" <BR>The book is divided up into four parts: \\"A Story Called Millennium,\\" \\"What To Do in Dreamland Till We're Dead,\\" \\"There is a Wasteland and It Is Us,\\" and \\"How are Tricks?.\\" Images of everything from Nazi Germany to the woodcuts of Albrecht Durer to Pokemon to John Wayne to Jesus to goofy street signs are juxtaposed with the author's own text and quotes from a variety of sources equally as diverse. There are sure to be arguments of whether or not the book relies too heavily on junk science and religious twaddle but the mission of trying to get people to stop believing the nuts who \\"name\\" the date the world will end is unquestionably a positive thing (unless you are the proprietor of a creepy cult of course). Even if you are not particularly interested in the whole worry that we are living in the end times business, you can still derive plenty of enjoyment from this book. I was thumbing through it in a bookstore and bought it because I liked the quotations and the neat artwork. As a pleasant side effect, I have read several of the stories quoted in this book because the snippet included by the author was so intriguing. Anyhow, if you are interested in the idea of mankind running itself into the ground or the notion of the world ending in some blaze of glory of Biblical proportions, this book would be a great selection. And if you aren't, check it out anyhow for the graphics and the quotes. (...)	2001-12-10
US	51274086	R2F6BNGUCSW706	1570981094	623256285	HOLLYWOOD IRISH: In Their Own Words: Illustrated Interviews With Gabriel Byrne, Liam Neeson, Pierce Brosnan, Stephen Rea, Aidan Quinn and Patrick Bergin	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Worthwhile Profile of Hollywood's Leading Irishmen	_Hollywood Irish_ is a fantastic collection of interviews and photographs of six handsome and talented actors: Gabriel Byrne, Liam Neeson, Stephen Rea, Pierce Brosnan, Aidan Quinn and Patrick Bergin. The simple introduction provided by ine O'Connor sets the mood for the rest of the book well. As she mentions, the interviews do reveal insightful, private information: \\"Liam Neeson reveals how he considered leaving acting and how he found the confidence to continue; Pierce Brosnan, simply and openly, shares the painful story of his wife Cassie's death; Stephen Rea discusses the relationship between acting and politics; Aidan Quinn talks about the Irish identity and its many paradoxes; Patrick Bergin reveals the temptations of an actor's life and the difficulties of doing love scenes; Gabriel Byrne tells us about the risks and illusions that surround fame.\\" In a nutshell, that's the book. Each actor discusses his beginnings, both in life and as an actor. Each discusses, in some capacity, how being Irish has impacted him. Each actor's profile comes with several b/w photos from childhood, movies and family collections. At the end, one can find each actor's filmography. The only complaint I would have regarding the book is that the material is dated (only current to 1997) and I wish an updated version could be compiled. That criticism aside, though, this is certainly a title worth owning.	2001-12-10
US	51274086	R2MMV0KPT6FKQE	0312957955	721205438	Falling Angel (Dead Letter Mystery)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Worth Your Time, Movie or Not	After watching the movie _Angel Heart_ a couple of times, I thought reading the book it was based on would be enjoyable. For the most part, it was. <BR>The plot is not the norm and if you have already seen the film, you're one step ahead. Harry Angel, a private investigator in 1950s New York, is hired by Louis Cyphre. Cyphre is odd to say the least but he pays well and only asks that Angel track down Johnny Favorite. Favorite was a singer several years earlier but it seemed that at some point after he returned from the war, he disappeared. As Angel goes looking, he discovers that Favorite was not just an eccentric, but a man well versed in all things related to the occult. Contrary to the film's portrayal, Angel does not leave New York to find people in New Orleans. He finds plenty of trouble on his own territory and has a number of close-calls throughout the novel. <BR>In terms of whether the story fits into the genre of mystery, horror or both, I am not sure. I would call both the book and the movie `noir' if I had to label them because they are forms of the classic gritty PI in a seamy underworld scenario. The writing does seem dry, tired and even inconsistent in some places but overall it will probably hold your interest. Personally, I finished it in two days (even while frantically preparing for finals) because I was interested to see how closely the movie followed the book. But even if you haven't seen the movie and have no interest to, the book is worth your time.	2001-12-05
US	51274086	R2054I4UIVYQI0	0486239225	84522738	Palladio's Architecture and Its Influence: A Photographic Guide	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Life &amp; Works of Palladio	I became acquainted with the works of Palladio after taking an art history class that focused on the relevant time period. I was impressed with his designs but a little surprised that Palladio is not given much recognition by those outside of the world of architecture. This book helps, at least in some ways, to set things right.<br />This book includes a brief biography on Andrea Palladio with insight on his _The Four Books of Architecture_. It also mentions the introduction that many Americans have to Palladian architecture-Thomas Jefferson. The scope of his influence on Jefferson is evident simply by looking at Monticello and the University of Virginia. <br />The authors divide Palladio's works into three categories: villas, palaces and churches. They also include Palladian designs in England, Scotland and America. Each design is profiled with pictures and given roughly 2 - 4 paragraphs of description. The information provided is easy to read but not so simplistic that it seems superficial. The photographs are excellent and often show fascinating detail. Unfortunately though, all photos are b/w and sometimes color would have been helpful. That reason and the basic nature of the text caused me to rate this at four stars rather than five. Experts and scholars should look elsewhere unless they are only after the illustrations. For students and casual observers, this book is a fantastic way to begin learning about Palladio.	2001-08-19
US	51274086	R10D8RJ42UAUDK	0931580587	4895098	Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do: The Absurdity of Consensual Crimes in a Free Society	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Yes, Yes, YES!	I bought a used copy of this book after it had been donated to the bookstore I formerly worked in by, of all places, a church library. I became a libertarian last year and had heard that it was excellent reading for people of that persuasion. So I happily took it home and plunged in. I'm glad I did. <br />My sense of humor is similar to what McWilliams's was so I felt an instant connection to the text. Others may find him too caustic at times, but I liked his humorous interjections. My copy is an older hardback version so the newer paperback may have some differences but the basic premise is surely the same: people, not the government, have the right to decide what to do with their own bodies and property. It's as simple as that yet in America, we've been taught to perceive it as a tangled, complicated mess. Several years back, I was watching Sting (I'm a big fan) on _Larry King Live_ and he started discussing how strange it was / still is that society finds it acceptable to smoke, drink and ingest caffeine, but unacceptable, even morally reprehensible to use other \\"drugs\\". I was a staunch Republican in those days so I swept his comment under the rug but it always stuck with me. In reading this book, I am glad I allowed myself to explore the topic of consensual crimes.<br />So what are consensual crimes anyway? Some people think of them as \\"victimless crimes\\" but they are, more or less, acts that do not harm the body and/or property of any non-consenting person yet are illegal anyway. McWilliams states that the basis for this book is simple: \\"You should be allowed to do whatever you want with your own person and property, as long as you don't physically harm the person or property of another.\\" To explore this idea, McWilliams looks at a number of things-- what are consensual crimes, what is the difference between personal morality and social morality, why making laws against consensual crimes is not a good idea, how consensual crimes got to be crimes in the first place, the role of religion (especially the B-i-b-l-e) in consensual crimes and what can be done.<br />The kinds of consensual crimes discussed in the book include gambling, drug use, prostitution, porno, issues of marriage (polygamy, adultery, and so on), homosexuality (McWilliams attacks several common myths about the homosexual lifestyle with jocularity *and* dignity), unconventional religious practices, suicide/assisted suicide, loitering, unpopular political sentiments, seat belt laws, helmet laws, public nudity, etc. McWilliams does an excellent job of clarifying the difference between one&#8217;s personal morality and society&#8217;s morality. Personal morality as he defines it is what we believe will make us better human beings whereas social morality consists of not harming someone else physically or harming his/her property. There&#8217;s quite a distinction there! Some groups in our country believe that social morality ought to consist of government enforcing laws around their religious beliefs. Maybe they have pure intentions but can you fathom the horrible results? McWilliams does and points out that if a book like, say, the Bible became the ultimate, completely imposed by force, law of the land, all of us would be in jail. At one time or another, we&#8217;ve coveted something someone else had, we&#8217;ve looked at someone through eyes of lust, and we&#8217;ve been mad at our parents. Do we truly want to spend the time and money to put someone in jail for envying his/her neighbor&#8217;s new car? Puh-leeze! McWilliams also does the great service of pointing out that, when groups such as those go out to make converts and raise people&#8217;s ire, it&#8217;s called \\"witnessing\\", \\"testifying\\" and \\"sharing\\". But when people of opposite viewpoints speak, those groups refer to it as \\"brainwashing\\" and \\"recruiting\\". Funny how that works&#8230; <br />If the simple idea of freedom is not enough to convince you that the government ought to butt out of people beingable to do with their bodies what they want, McWilliams provides quite a list of other compelling reasons. He contends that keeping consensual acts illegal: is Un-American, is Unconstitutional, violates the separation of church and state, opposes capitalism, is extremely expensive, destroys lives, encourages real crimes, corrupts law enforcement and ties up the courts, promotes organized crime, corrupts freedom of the press, teaches irresponsibility, causes random enforcement of laws, discriminates, keeps issues from being resolved and creates an environment of fear, hate and conformity. <br />Make no mistake- while you may have a few laughs, this book is not an easy or relaxing read. You will have to think. You may become riled up or even incensed. You may have your current religious and/or political beliefs called into question and interpreted in ways you may have never considered before. Whether you agree with McWilliams on any of the issues, you do owe it to yourself and your country to give it a look. Your tax dollars are probably being spent this very minute to punish someone for participating in a consensual crime. Read _Ain&#8217;t Nobody&#8217;s Business_ and then ask yourself, is it really worth it?	2001-08-17
US	51274086	R13E4YYOKZQQ4B	0714838047	937308245	David	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent Profile of the Life, Times &amp; Works of David	I was thoroughly impressed with this profile of Jacques-Louis David. It was given to me as a gift and I was not sure of quite what to expect. From my experience, David is often given little more than a few pages (or even a few brief paragraphs) in art textbooks and thus if a person wants to know more, it is necessary to do a bit of digging. <br />From the introduction, my fear was dispelled and I knew I was in for a treat. The author discusses David's personal life, his political ideas and involvement, the relevant historical details, and David's works. The illustrations are wonderful and aside from David's paintings and sketches, the works of artists like Boucher, Vien, Caravaggio, Poussin, Gros and Ingres are included. Lee generally gives a fair amount of analysis on each of David's works. Most students will recognize The Oath of the Horatii, The Death of Socrates, and Marat Breathing his Last but will also see and learn about The Coronation, The Distribution of the Eagle Standards, Brutus, Intervention of the Sabine Women, Belisarius Receiving Alms and Mars Disarmed By Venus, to name a few. Regarding the politics of the French Revolution, Lee discusses David's role, his allies, his enemies, and his skillful use of paintings as propaganda. We see David shift from painter to the monarchy to painter for the Revolution to painter for Napoleon to painter for himself, warts and all. One should not assume that Lee candy-coats the issues in this book. He neither presents David as a flawless genius nor spoils the book with pretentious blather. The text is informative and sophisticated without being cumbersome or haughty. <br />Other great features of the book include a convenient glossary, short biographies on pertinent figures, a map and a timeline. Whether you are an expert art historian or a student, you will find this book to be a great addition.	2001-08-12
US	51274086	R100VS6LOBL32A	157912061X	609534309	Alligators in the Sewer and 222 Other Urban Legends: Absolutely True Stories that Happened to a Friend...of a Friend...of a Friend	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fast and Easy Read About Many Urban Legends	I teased my mother after she bought this book at a used bookstore. I saw the title and thought it was probably some cheesy mess of mindless superstition. Then I borrowed it and read it in a matter of hours. I just couldn't put it down. I was amazed at how many of the stories in the book I had heard before, almost always presented as 100% fact. Such as, &quot;I have a friend of a friend who went to surprise her husband at a party thinking he would be dressed like Zorro...&quot; or &quot;Don't go down to Lovers Lane-- there's an escaped mental patient who waits for young, vulnerable couples.&quot; Even more surprising to me was that one of the urban legends had been passed off as fact by the administrators when I was in high school. The rumor had gotten started that gang members were putting AIDS tainted needles in theater seats and pay phone coin slots and my high school's administration sent out a memo to the teachers (I kid you not) to never stick their fingers into a coin slot no matter how badly they needed the change and to be very cautious when selecting a theater seat. Maybe there is some bit of truth that urban legends like that one are based on but I think so often each person who tells the legend embellishes a little more until finally, the finished product is totally wacky.<br />I liked that this book works at dispelling belief in these legends rather than glamorizing them or giving some drawn out backstory on how they came about. If you are looking for something from the historical perspective, this is not the book for you. If instead you are looking for a book that delivers quick information in an entertaining way, this *is* the urban legends book for you.	2001-08-11
US	51274086	RCCGYAKAERMI2	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	92	97	N	N	Excellent but not for anyone with a closed mind	As a libertarian I was thrilled to find this book. Months ago I couldn't have even told you who Larry Elder is. The radio stations in my neck of the woods do not carry Elder's program so I didn't know anything about Elder when I bought this book. I read the blurb, thought it sounded interesting and read it with an open mind. I wasn't prepared to agree with 99 if not 100 percent of what I read but that's what happened. But as a caveat let me again reiterate that this book is NOT for anyone with a closed mind. If you are so entrenched in certain religious and/or political beliefs that you cannot read someone else's ideas without becoming enraged then do not even waste your money. For those of you with more maturity, this is a great buy.<br />Elder's 10 contentions are simple but loaded: Blacks are more racist than whites, white condescension is as bad as black racism, the media bias is real, widespread and destructive, the glass ceiling is full of holes, America's greatest problem is illegitimacy, there is no health-care crisis, America's welfare state is tyranny of the statist quo, there's maybe a dime's worth of difference between Republicans and Democrats, the war on drugs is a losing battle and gun control advocates are good guys with blood on their hands. I can just see many of you reading this and gasping with horror at those statements. But before you condemn Elder as someone who loathes himself, acts white, subscribes to radical political ideas and/or has no sense of practicality, look closer. How many times during, say, one week can you turn on your TV and see one of the &quot;victicrats&quot; Elder describes crying about some evil he/she faced and how the government *owes* it to everyone to write a law about said evil? How many news reports can you hear of celebrities with drug problems and the status of America's war on drugs? In response the media will talk to Republicans and Democrats about their reactions and, at the end of the day, there will be littledifference in the answers they give. And if you turn on even one talk show during the day you will see paternity tests being administered on behalf of women who don't even know for sure who the fathers of their babies are! Yes, illegitimacy is a big problem in America but will you ever hear a politically correct talk show host say so? Of course not. They will blame promiscuity on low self-esteem and poverty instead of telling the truth-- people just don't want to take responsibility for themselves anymore. This extends to our failing war on drugs. People would rather believe that the government ought to fight the drug war because it's &quot;right&quot; or because they don't think crackheads will work at legitimate jobs to buy drugs or they think that drug use will reach epidemic levels if drugs are legalized or they think that the streets won't be safe. Reality check, folks-- drugs are illegal and we have problems with gang and street violence now. As Elder points out, alcohol consumption actually fell after Prohibition ended and, to quote Ben Franklin as Elder does, &quot;They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.&quot; <br />Amen.	2001-07-17
US	51274086	R2K8ZGDNEQ4LQ3	0711953023	42526256	Complete Guides to the Music of the Police & Sting (The complete guide to the music of...)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Decent Book, Especially for the Low Price	To cut to the chase, this book has some interesting pictures and covers every song by the Police and into Sting's solo career up to _Ten Summoner's Tales_. Some photos are in color, but most are in b/w. Each section describes another album, when the album was released, what songs you'll find on it and what kind of reviews it received. The main thing I disliked about this book was the frequent commentary of the author regarding the meaning of songs. Sometimes we agreed, sometimes we didn't, but I would have been happier with more Sting quotes, more facts and less editorializing by the author. All things considered though, the affordable price makes this title worth buying.	2000-12-28
US	51274086	R1KLTUSUHPY09M	1567994342	146272401	Neoclassical (Architecture and Design Library)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good profile of practical Neoclassical decorating	I have come to be a lover of Neoclassical art and architecture and asked for this book as an X-mas gift for decorating ideas. It has excellent photos with tips ranging from the formal to the casual, the decadent to the simplistic. It shows exterior housing designs as well as interior furnishings (bathrooms, dining areas, couches, kitchens, etc). If you are looking for a book strictly on the history of Neoclassicism, go elsewhere. But, if you are looking for a compilation of decorating ideas with great photos, this is what you need.	2000-12-28
US	51274086	R2N4SK1ZGVJWU7	0879752734	324371027	The Age of Reason (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	114	121	N	N	Age of Reason is still sparking debate	It is evident to me that the staying power of Paine's Age of Reason is strong-- I need only look through the mixed opinions here at Amazon to see how dramatically it impacts those who read it. For me, it was a great wake-up call. I read Age of Reason at the beginning of this year and didn't know much about what to expect. From the first few pages I knew that I had found a book that reflects how I feel about religion. Paine offers a sensible alternative to atheism and the vast supply of revealed religions that abound in the world. To be logical, Paine points out, you need not give up a belief in a Higher Power. But you also don't have to sell your soul to charlatans and holy books written hundreds of years ago by men, not gods.<br />The first half of Age of Reason outlines Paine's own beliefs as well as those he rejects. He gives reasons for every point he agrees or disagrees with and it is clear to the reader how Paine feels. Paine wants to spell out what his thoughts are so that he won't be misjudged by his peers. (Jefferson went through a similar ordeal-- because of his connections with France, he was labeled &quot;a French infidel and atheist&quot; neither of which was a true statement. See _The Religious Life of Thomas Jefferson_ for more info.)<br />In the second half, Paine sets out to show the Biblical discrepancies to those who wanted to prove his ideas false by using the Bible as their &quot;evidence&quot;. In a relatively small number of pages, Paine debunks and demystifies (in my opinion) a fair amount of 'Christian' theology and scripture. If one man can do it so well in only a few pages, what does that say for revealed religion? That question is for each of us to answer individually and Age of Reason is required reading for anyone who is serious in doing just that.	2000-12-28
US	51274086	R16ZHZ3SQAEYV7	080612945X	106113830	An Oklahoma I Had Never Seen Before: Alternative Views of Oklahoma History	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Good Collection of Essays on Oklahoma	This was a supplemental text to a section of Oklahoma history (not the one taught by Dr. Joyce though) I took last semester at college. The essays cover a wide variety of topics and are very thought provoking. One essay in particular debates the value of &quot;celebrating&quot; the Land Run of 1889. When I was in second grade, my elementary school commemorated the Land Run by holding a mock run and we were made to believe it was a fun, adventurous event. Now that I'm older and have learned more about the Run, I have great uncertainties about whether such a celebration should take place. <br />Goble's &quot;Southern Influence on Oklahoma&quot; was also intriguing. Political scientists and historians aren't sure how to classify Oklahoma because this state is a combination of Midwestern, Western and Southern. In his essay, Goble lists the many political and religious elements from the South that have shaped Oklahoma over the years. All things considered, this would be a great buy for anyone interested in Oklahoma history.	2000-12-19
US	51274086	R2Q46SZCVNIP7W	0806126507	937611671	The Story of Oklahoma	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Study of Oklahoma's Turbulent History	I was really surprised that I turned out to like this book. It was the required reading text for a section of Oklahoma history I took in college last semester and though I am majoring in history, I expected it to be a really boring, sugar-coated synopsis. When I thumbed through the first few pages, I was disappointed to see that it was written more for high school level history (which is rarely if ever in-depth enough) but after I read more, I was impressed. Baird and Goble are not afraid to speak about Oklahoma's embarrassing moments--i.e. the disenfranchisement of African Americans after statehood, the common declaration of martial law, the support of socialism, the Tulsa Race Riot, the election of a certifiable lunatic to Congress, etc. I learned much more from this text (and the college class of course) than I had ever imagined and I would highly recommend it for teachers and for anyone seriously interested in learning more about Oklahoma.	2000-12-19
US	51274086	R2W75HA9KQBSEN	0452276861	99256224	Michael Collins	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good behind-the-scenes view of the film	My copy of this screenplay diary is very nearly worn out! I have read it several times and have found it to be a good investment. Neil Jordan walks the reader through his feelings about making the film and includes some excellent black and white photos. He wrote that he has &quot;never lost more sleep over the making of a film&quot; than he did over _Michael Collins_. Indeed, it is easy to understand why. Jordan discusses his own reservations about taking on such a monumental task (as accurately capturing the truth behind an Irish hero) and he takes us along on his meetings with the actors. The screenplay of the film, including the list of actors and characters, is a neat read as well. If you are a die-hard fan of the movie, you will pick up on some subtle and not-so-subtle changes in the script. All things considered, this title would be a great investment for any fan of the film. If, on the other hand, you are simply looking for more information on one of the actors, the man behind the movie or the life of Neil Jordan, I would suggest you look elsewhere. This book is strictly concerned with the filmmaking process and would probably not be a good fit for any of those needs.	2000-05-18
US	51274086	R2TCNET0KCQGM4	0486297713	85732130	"Easter 1916" and Other Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A wee bit of great poetry	&quot;Easter 1916&quot; is one of the finest poems regarding the Dublin insurrection both in its historical account and its encapsulation of raw emotion. Another of my favorites is &quot;The Rose Tree&quot; which relays a conversation between Patrick Pearse and James Connolly, two of the  martyred leaders of the Easter Rising. The other poems included are a good  cross-section of works from The Wild Swans at Coole (1919) and Michael  Robartes and the Dancer (1921)--collections that show the kind of talent  Yeats possessed. And there's no arguing with the price; I have found Dover  Thrift Editions to be lifesavers in those times when you desperately need  to find a poem or short story but don't have $10 or $20 to spend on it. All  things considered, this is a fantastic buy.	2000-05-10
US	51274086	RVT5NCG9993C6	1883478219	412406725	The Souls of Animals	Books	5	114	118	N	N	For the first time in a long time, I wept as I read.	I stumbled upon this book on accident. As an animal lover, it looked appealing to me though I expected it to be a generic, feel-good read. I was quite surprised! When I read the information that Kowalski had compiled, I  cried. The chapters explore our questions on just how perceptive and  emotional animals are. Do they feel a sense of love? Are they aware of  death? Why do they play? When I read the stories that the author relates,  such as the family of elephants who buried the dead and Koko the female  lowland gorilla who learned American Sign Language, I was deeply moved. I  had not purchased this book planning a lifestyle change but that is  precisely what happened. Knowing what I do now about the intelligence and  passion of animals, I am a vegetarian, living a happier, healthier life.	2000-05-10
US	51274086	R2KPPVBI1BPQE8	1570982155	496617789	Illustrated Life of Michael Collins	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Kudos to Connolly	Everyone has heard the cliche &quot;A picture's worth a thousand words&quot; and Connolly proves it is true. History comes to life beautifully as the reader is enveloped in headlines, photos, drawings and  letters of the time. As well as eye candy, The Illustrated Life of Michael  Collins provides an accurate, easy-to-read biography and a palatable  political analysis. Unlike some other historical profiles, Connolly stays  away from melodrama and hero worship, telling the facts as they were and  leaving the observer to make his own choices. A worthwhile purchase for  anyone interested in Michael Collins and/or Irish history.	2000-05-10
US	51274086	R2VXHJ26ZWRQ3X	0836268415	373225896	The Irish 100: A Ranking of the Most Influential Irish of All Time	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Credit Where It Is Deserved	I was generally pleased with this book even though it attempts to do the utterly impossible-- rank an individual's contribution to the world (or 100, as the case may be). Surely, there will be important figures left off and ranks that will be disputed, but I believe in overall terms, Philbin does a good job in the book. His top five are as follows: (1) Saint Patrick, (2) Michael Collins, (3) Charles Stewart Parnell, (4) Daniel O'Connell, and (5) Eamon de Valera. Personally, I felt that Saint Patrick was ranked first less for who he was and more for what he symbolizes: a nation which, centuries later, is still a Catholic country. I was glad to see Collins ranked second and I think this is a sign of the changing times. For too long, Collins has been given little more than a paragraph or idle footnote in historical works. Thankfully, this is changing even though Philbin's own opinion of Collins doesn't seem particularly favorable. Of course there are others-- Patrick Pearse, John Devoy, Arthur Griffith, James Larkin, Douglas Hyde, Bobby Sands, et al., and approximately two to three pages of simple biography for each person. It is difficult for me to criticize Philbin for frequently injecting his own opinions into the text because this entire book is nothing but a construct _for_ Philbin's opinion; these are his rankings, his ideas, and his views. I can't see giving this book a full five star rating because it isn't strictly an academic text and I wouldn't suggest solely relying on this title if you are doing research on Irish history. If, however, you are in the market for an entertaining, mentally stimulating read on Irish and Irish-American history, this would be a great choice.	1999-12-10
US	51274086	R1MYO9V4VZEIO7	0679416730	943344293	Sin	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Worthwhile Sophomore Effort	I thought Sin was a crafty follow-up to Damage. Not as poignant, but a good read nonetheless. Some second novels are flat compared to the author's first release, but this is not the case with Sin. It is well worth your time although I do concede that it has an overall soap opera feel to it. The place names, plot, and characters can seem ostentatious at times so prepare to make at least a small suspension of disbelief. Hart continues to explore the ideas of jealousy, obession and passion in Sin but not with the same effectiveness as with Damage. Overall, I would suggest Sin as an excellent rainy day, relax and have fun read.	1999-12-08
US	51274086	R2NN87HMQKAECR	0449911888	470782123	Damage	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Passion without restraint- and its consequences	Hart manages to do what few authors can-- make a central character capable of drawing disgust and sympathy from the audience at the same time. _Damage_ is reminiscent to me of _Lolita_ and the middle-aged MP is quite similar to Nabokov's Humbert Humbert (small wonder that Jeremy Irons was selected to play both men on film). <BR>The plot is something like this: Stephen Fleming is a bored, stuffed-shirt politician. He is smart and successful with a loving family but he is slowly smothering from his life of routine. When Anna Barton comes along, he is drawn in by how different she is. Anna and Stephen begin a passionate affair quickly and it escalates with even more rapidity. They take more and more risks until finally, Martyn, Anna's fiance and Stephen's son, catches them. Obviously, the game is over and the characters disperse. Anna returns to the only person who can truly comfort her in times of crisis and Stephen loses the outwardly perfect life he once had. <BR>For the most part, this novel kept my undivided attention. I was able to finish it quickly and have read it several times since. Though other novels that deal with forbidden love have been recommended to me, I have not found any that I enjoy quite as much as _Damage_. True, the prose is sparse though not \\"joined-up\\" as one reviewer quipped. I am not put off by minimalism in literature or art so I found the unencumbered text to be refreshing. Others will disagree and wish Hart had provided more, but I think all of the necessary details are included with style.	1999-10-06
US	51274086	R21O2CA3DQF77T	0312180500	258588846	The Big Fellow: Michael Collins and the Irish Revolution	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Passionate account of Collins' life	This Collins biography was the first one I ever read. I bought it immediately after viewing Neil Jordan's biopic in 1996 and tore through it cover-to-cover in no time flat. Part of that was from youthful enthusiasm and the rest because O'Connor's writing style is so engaging. O'Connor himself deemed the book a \\"labour of love\\" and it is clear from the very first page that he meant it. My paperback edition has a foreword from the author in which he explains his affinity to Collins and his motivations for writing the biography. From there, he divides the text into three parts: Lilliput in London, The Body and the Lash, and The Tragic Dilemma. He covers Collins' youth, though his focus begins during Collins' teen years in London. He discusses the Easter Rising, Collins' jail time, his work at infiltrating the British spy system, Bloody Sunday, Collins' assassination, and, very briefly, the aftermath in Ireland. Throughout the book, O'Connor gives his reader a voyeuristic peek into Collins' life through Collins' own words and Collins' personality traits. This is one of the best Collins biographies at allowing the audience to know Michael the person as opposed to Michael the soldier, Michael the revolutionary, or Michael the politician. Also what sets O'Connor apart is his creative writing background. His words are infused with a kind of passion to which many writers can only aspire. I have to admit the last three paragraphs of the book may have you in tears as I was the first time I read them. If you are new to the life of Collins, this is not a bad selection to begin with and, likewise, if you are already familiar with Collins, this is an excellent book to include in your collection.	1999-02-02
