US	51273643	RZ9PJWGJR91XM	0373218036	249319124	Truly, Madly Manhattan	Books	4	3	6	N	N	No surprises here, but very enjoyable	In another compilation of two of her earlier works, &quot;Truly Madly Manhattan&quot; delivers all the elements a Nora Roberts fan has come to love -- sensitive men, strong women, and happy endings.  <br />Of the two books I preferred &quot;Local Hero&quot;, the first, largely because Mitch Dempsey, the comic-book-writing hero, takes so closely after one of his own characters.  There's a danger inherent in creating a &quot;too-good-to-be-true&quot; character like Mitch, and that is the possibility of completely alienating your core audience (women) who just can't relate to the guy in these pages.  However, Mitch is SO endearing, so persistent in his plan to win over Hester, that this character somehow manages to win over the reader as well.	2003-03-25
US	51273643	R18N3KT8I916VM	0671042920	459086289	Ride a Dark Horse	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good potential but doesn't deliver	\\"Ride a Dark Horse\\" is my first encounter with Laura Moore, and I'll admit I only bought it because of the horsey content.  The plotline definitely sounded intriguing -- up-and-coming show jumping rider Cassie Miller is trying to break back into the business after a 5-year absence; veterinarian/horse-owner Caleb Wells wants to turn his horse into a show jumping star but can't find the right rider; and Caleb's ex-wife holds the reins (literally and figuratively) of the horse at the center of this story.<br />Unfortunately, the book doesn't deliver on many of the plot's promises.  By trying to cater to a wider audience Ms. Moore tones down the level of equestrian detail so much so that it's no longer evident this book is written by a horsewoman.  In addition, Caleb's \\"vindictive\\" ex-wife really comes off as nothing more than a cheap trash-talker and really never drives the plot at all.  This could have provided a lot of drama but never really does.  On the plus side, the romance between Caleb and Cassie, while slow to start (due to another plot contrivance having to do with her being dumped by a previous fiance), was worth the wait.	2003-03-25
US	51273643	R2DIKM5S3M3SGV	0553265741	249097119	Sacred Sins	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suspenseful ...	... unless you figured out &quot;whodunit&quot; early on, as I did.<br />This is an excellent suspense novel all the same, and creates very believable characters in Ben (the detective investigating a rash of murders by a killer dubbed &quot;the Priest&quot;) and Tess (the psychiatrist brought in to create a profile of the killer's mind). Friction between them is evident from the start, as they hold each other's professions in low esteem, but the two learn to accept the other's views and of course, become romantically involved along the way. When Tess becomes the Priest's next target, the drama is heightened as it becomes a race to catch the Priest before he catches Tess.<br />An enjoyable, fast read, and one with an ending that may surprise some greatly if they don't catch the little hints dropped along the way.	2001-09-04
US	51273643	R1QYC0MNJ6PYEB	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A thrilling page-turner!	Sandra Brown has a winner on her hands with her latest suspense drama, Envy.  <br />Publishing-house &quot;heiress&quot; (and editor in her own right) Maris Matherly-Reed takes an interest (some might call it an obsession) in a manuscript (also named &quot;Envy&quot;) that turns up on her desk unsolicited.  Hooked by the prologue (the only part submitted), and even more intrigued by the nearly anonymous author, she sets about tracking him down and encouraging him to finish what he's started.  In so doing, she sets in motion a drama of a whole different kind which may not only end her marriage, but ultimately destroy her.<br />I really enjoyed this book and its &quot;novel within a novel&quot; format.  The chapters of the &quot;Envy&quot; manuscript we are treated to are wonderful and move the story along in a very different manner than one is accustomed to.  Maris is a strong character, albeit a bit naive, but very likeable.  Parker, the author of the manuscript, is an enigma and the reader just can't wait to unravel his secrets.	2001-09-04
US	51273643	R3ARVIX03NRW4Z	0373484429	666170685	Reflections And Dreams	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not one of the greats	This 2-book compilation, originally written as 2 separate books in the mid 1980's, shows its age (or at least the relative greenness of its author) when compared with some of Nora's recent, captivating series.<br />Even taken on its own, the first book, &quot;Reflections&quot;, isn't wildly inspiring.  Lindsay Dunne is a prima ballerina who at 25 is looking at the end of her professional career due to the 3 years she had to take off to care for her sick mother.  She's opened her own dance school, and even when the opportunity presents itself to pick up her career virtually where she left off, she's torn by terribly mixed emotions and isn't sure whose dreams she would fulfill by returning to the stage -- hers or her mother's.  Another force holding her home is Seth Bannion, a newcomer to her small Connecticut town and uncle and guardian to her most promising new student, Ruth.  The relationship between Lindsay and Seth develops so quickly, the reader really has little time to become invested in the characters or really care why this should be a momentous event.  Both characters are perfectly likeable, but their affair is not much of a &quot;page-turner&quot;.<br />&quot;Dance of Dreams&quot; finds Ruth Bannion 5 years later, living and dancing in New York, a principal ballerina herself.  This tale is more enjoyable than the first, perhaps because the personality of her dancing partner/mentor Davidov is so strong.  He is the most entertaining character in either of these books and the most passionate.  Still, however, the writing itself fails to capitalize on that vital personality.  <br />This is certainly an enjoyable light read but should not rank up with Nora's greats.	2001-08-14
US	51273643	R1T4SP38WP48CS	051511779X	358736428	Born in Shame (Born in Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not as strong as the first two ...	but worth the read all the same.<br />In this conclusion to the &quot;Born In&quot; trilogy, Brianna and Maggie Concannon are finally successful in tracking down the half-sister they have only recently learned about.  Shannon Bodine is less than eager to have been found, especially since she only just discovered her lineage and is struggling with major identity issues in the wake of the news.<br />Shannon travels to Ireland to get some answers, but not to connect with any &quot;family&quot; -- the only family she acknowledges, her parents, are dead.  Gradually she discovers that the ties of blood are as strong in her as they are in her sisters, and whether she wanted it or not she now has another family.<br />This book is far more about Shannon's journey of self-discovery than it is about the romance she embarks on with the Concannon sisters' longtime friend Murphy Muldoon.  Murphy is almost selfless in his total adoration of Shannon from the start, and I wasn't very impressed with the &quot;mystical&quot; aspects of their romance (they both have recurring dreams that they knew each other from before).  In addition, Shannon isn't as sympathetic a character as either Maggie or Brianna was, because unlike them she grew up in a loving, happy home and seems to have no valid excuse for the bitterness she now feels.<br />All the same, you can't read a trilogy without reading the ending, and this was an enjoyable enough way to pass the time.	2001-08-01
US	51273643	RB7I0MG1BJNQK	0515114693	797149019	Born in Fire (Born in Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First in an excellent series	The 2nd Nora Roberts book I ever read was &quot;Born In Ice&quot;, which I only later discovered was part of trilogy -- and the middle, at that.  I enjoyed it then, but resolved to go out and read the whole trilogy.  I'm glad I did!  <br />&quot;Born In Fire&quot; sets the whole tone for the 2 books that follow.  While the relationship between temperamental glassblowing artist Maggie and upper-crust gallery owner Rogan is obviously at the forefront of this tale, the larger tale being told is that of 2 sisters and how they are coming to grips with the death of their adoring father and the reality of the long, loveless marriage he shared with their cold, bitter mother.  The relationship and interplay between Maggie, her sweet-natured sister Brianna, and their shrewish mother provides some of the best dialogue in the book.  <br />Maggie is a very well-developed character, who is so flawed and yet so wonderful that she is as human to the reader as one's own best friend might be.	2001-07-26
US	51273643	R1W32BR0IKUONU	0515116750	17027728	Born in Ice (Born in Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A wonderful hero sets this one apart	Book 2 of the &quot;Born In&quot; trilogy was actually my first introduction to Nora Roberts romances.  I read it when I had just discovered her new romantic suspense novels, and a friend loaned me this one.  It was wonderful, and now I've finally made my way back to it -- this time in its proper place in the trilogy.<br />The heroine, Brianna Concannon, is almost too good and too sweet to be true.  Her fiery sister Maggie seems so much more human.  Yet in this novel, Brianna shows her true grit as well -- underneath that almost pathetic desire to please is a will of steel and a fierce loyalty to even those who don't inspire or deserve it.<br />Yet it is the &quot;hero&quot;, reformed teenage delinquent turned famous mystery novelist Grayson Thane, that really makes this one worth the read.  Gray sees Ireland through first-timer's eyes, and makes the reader see it for the first time too (you can't not want to visit there after reading the descriptions in this book).  Through it all is his odyssey to find a home he didn't even know he needed -- and certainly didn't want.  Yet here, in this tiny village in the west counties of Ireland, he feels for the first time in his life the lure of putting down roots-- and has to decide whether to act upon it or not.	2001-07-26
US	51273643	R374NDEQ3TPX8V	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another trilogy begins ... and another winner emerges	At the risk of sounding repetitive (I can't think of a NR trilogy I HAVEN'T loved), &quot;Dance Upon The Air&quot; follows in the footsteps of the excellent Irish trilogy which preceded it.  That is to say, excellent character development, witty dialogue, to-die-for heroes, and resilient heroines are the hallmarks of all the NR series I've read.  This one adds the element of witchcraft as well (and so seems to have quite a bit in common with the Donovan Legacy books).<br />Despite a WHOLE lot of similarities between this book and the movie &quot;Sleeping With the Enemy&quot; (abused wife fakes death, changes name and appearance, relocates, only to be hunted down by abusive husband), this book avoids appearing like a rip-off because it's so much better written (and the characters so much more human) than the movie ever was.  In addition, the auxiliary characters are so entertaining that you just can't wait to get to their stories in the 2 future installments.	2001-07-26
US	51273643	R2JSCC4I34OWFL	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Unbelievably heartwarming	I'm not typically one to read autobiographies or true stories, but having heard so much good &quot;buzz&quot; about &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; I put it on my birthday list and wasn't sure how excited to be when I actually received a copy.  After leaving it on the shelf for a couple of months, I finally dragged it down ... wondering how long it would take me to read (it's a hefty book, and the print is by no means large!).<br />The answer?  Under a week -- reading in bed, in the car, ANYWHERE where I could continue to devour the pages of this amazingly well-written, well-researched book.  Laura Hillenbrand has taken the true tale of a scrawny, behaviorally-challenged Thoroughbred colt who energized the nation with each comeback he made and turned it into a gripping, page-turning read.  Having picked it up for the &quot;horsey&quot; aspects alone, I was stunned to find myself enthralled by the background stories of the owner, trainer, and jockey who came together quite by chance to bring this horse to his full potential.  I actually laughed out loud when reading some of the descriptive passages relating to Seabiscuit's personality traits and behavior quirks, I rooted for him to win races that are long since past, and I cried for this horse who has long since left the earth.<br />Please read this beautiful story and let it take you back to a time when even a nation plunged into financial despair could garner real pleasure and joy from watching a true athlete do what he was born to do.	2001-07-26
US	51273643	R2G1PHHNL8Z1E4	0373484224	853000994	The Stanislaski Brothers (Two Complete Novels: Mikhail and Alex)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very enjoyable	Luring a Lady - Alternately brooding, passionate, fierce, gentle, artistic, and down-to-earth, not to mention possessing of unprecedented good looks, Mikhail Stanislaski may be the archetypal romance novel hero, but since it works so well in this book, who's complaining?  The \\"opposites attract\\" theme is at work in this novel which finds Mikhail, the second of the Stanislaski brood, falling hard for an uptown heiress who has only recently decided to work for a living as a result of her grandfather's death and the passing of his business to her hands.  This seeming ice princess (Sydney Hayward) thaws considerably upon meeting Mikhail, and learns about love in a way she'd never imagined growing up in her cold, formal home.  This book is a serious page-turner and a wonderful read!<br />Convincing Alex - The 4th in the Stanislaski series, this story gets into the head and the heart of tough cop Alexi Stanislaski.  In the course of a murder investigation, he stumbles across the seemingly flighty Bess McNee, a soap opera writer out doing \\"research\\" for her characters.  She's in the business of love and romance, and seems to have fallen in and out of love as often as some of the characters she writes.  Thus when she falls head over heels for Alex, she has a tough time convincing him that this time it's for real.  This is an excellent story and a fitting ending to wrap up the quartet of sibling stories.	2001-06-11
US	51273643	ROCAVO5YNB6GY	0373240880	250620640	Waiting For Nick  (Those Wild Ukrainians) (The Stanislaskis)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	The Stanislaski &quot;Steps&quot;	This 5th installment of the Stanislaski &quot;series&quot; focuses on the extended family of &quot;those wild Ukrainians&quot; (as the book jacket tackily calls them).<br />Freddie, the stepdaughter of Natasha Stanislaski (from book 1 of the series), is all grown up now and ready to leave behind small-town life for the big city lights.  New York is the natural place to go for more than one reason -- she has aspirations of writing lyrics for musicals, her extended family lives there, etc.  But all the reasons just come down to one:  Nick LeBeck lives there, and it's HIS music Freddie wants to write for.  Nick, the stepbrother of Zack, who is married to Rachel, who is Natasha's sister (see the convoluted relationship?) was a troubled teen who has pulled his life out of its collision course with destruction and made a name for himself in the world of music composition.  But he also has a chip on his shoulder about his background and his misspent youth, and when Freddie declares that she's loved him for years it throws him for a loop and makes him want to push her away.  Their relationship is alternately tender and rocky, and Freddie's patience is put to the test as she waits for Nick to accept their love, but ultimately love does win out (doesn't it always?).<br />I enjoyed this book very much and think it is definitely worthy of carrying the Stanislaski name!	2001-06-11
US	51273643	R1SOT4ZNC8B7ZR	0373484232	723549644	The Stanislaski Sisters: Natasha and Rachel (Silhouette Romance 2-novel book: Taming Natasha, Falling For Rachel)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another excellent family series	The Stanislaski Sisters combines two previous short novels into one volume:  <br />Taming Natasha - This was a very fast read and an enjoyable beginning to the Stanislaski series.  Natasha, the eldest of the Stanislaski children, appears to be a confident, self-sufficient career woman, albeit in a small homey town in W. Virginia.  Her composure is quickly rattled by the new professor in town, sexy single dad Spence Kimball, and his easy-to-love young daughter.  For reasons known only to herself, Tash tries to keep her distance from Spence, without much success.  Although Tash's \\"secret\\" becomes fairly obvious early on, this is still a very nice, pleasant romance novel, marred only by numerous typos.<br />Falling for Rachel - This third installment in the Stanislaski series continues the themes of family, loyalty, friendship, and love.  Rachel, the youngest sibling, is pursuing her quest for freedom and justice by working as a public defender.  Her latest case, a larceny involving 19-year-old gang member Nick, puts her in an unfamiliar position - in addition to being his lawyer, she's named co-guardian (along with Nick's sexy older stepbrother, Zack) while Nick spends 2 months on probation.   Rachel and Zack quickly discover they share a bond quite independent of Nick, and despite Rachel's best intentions interest turns to involvement, and involvement turns to love.  One of the best parts of this book is the sticky situation that arises when Zack is not the only one who is \\"falling for Rachel\\".  Nick, having never known a stable family life, develops an attraction for Rachel and also for the family bonds she shares with her siblings and parents.  The situation is realistic and sympathetic, as Nick is just looking for someone - anyone - to believe in.	2001-05-15
US	51273643	R2BK3D7FYW3FZ3	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	5	11	14	N	N	You'll love The Villa	For the first time that I'm aware of, Nora Roberts tells not one but three love stories in the same book.  The primary one, that of Sophia Giambelli and Ty MacMillan, takes two people who have spent their entire lives in and around the family business of wine-making and throws them together to learn what they DON'T know.  While the intent was for them to learn parts of the process so they can take over the business, they also learn what they don't know about love.  <br />Sophia, growing up essentially fatherless, has developed a consuming ambition to prove herself worthy.  Ty, with no real parental influence to speak of, does the same thing in his own quiet way.  In all other ways opposite, this common bond draws these two together and makes them see the other in a way few others can.<br />The second love story is that of Sophia's mom, Pilar, and the new COO of the winery.  Pilar has spent years in a non-marriage with Sophia's father, and any sense of self-worth she may ever had had is long gone.  David rekindles her zest for life, and gives her the confidence to have a strength she's never displayed.<br />Lastly, Tereza Giambelli, matriarch of the clan, rules all with an iron fist.  All, that is, but for her husband Eli, Ty's grandfather, who accepted her for what she was and let her grow to love him over time.  Their enduring love in the face of family tragedy and impending retirement sets the tone for the others to follow.	2001-04-26
US	51273643	R1XNR203RL6L6W	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Glad I broke down and gave it a try!	After being urged by everyone from my co-workers to my priest to give this book a try, I finally broke down and purchased it several months ago.  Then I found ways to procrastinate by reading other books I had waiting ... until finally I was out of other options.  Now I'm sorry I waited!<br />The Amazon review pretty much tells you the story of Harry's amazing transformation from ordinary, unloved boy to renowned wizard.  What it doesn't get across strongly enough is how much FUN it is to read about it!  Although I'd been assured this was as much a book for adults as it is for children, part of my hesitation to read it was because I doubted that.  I shouldn't have.  There were several passages in the book that had me laughing out loud.<br />I'm well into Book 2 now and loving every moment of Harry's adventures.  If you haven't read Book 1 yet -- do it now.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-02-08
US	51273643	RMMMEGVZF54RU	1551665077	925540262	Last Honest Woman (The O'hurleys)	Books	4	86	88	N	N	Good start to the O'Hurleys ... if you read it first	Please, I implore the publishers of these books to label them more clearly.  &quot;The Last Honest Woman&quot; is book one of a 4-part series about the show-business O'Hurleys; unfortunately, not knowing that, I already read the other 3 parts.  That said, it was fun to go back and revisit where this story began, and to see how and why Abby, the &quot;middle&quot; triplet, did not follow in the family business of entertaining others for a living.<br />Dylan Crosby, the writer who comes to chronicle the life of Abby's late husband, is almost too good to be true -- he likes her kids, cooks, pitches in around the house ... and of course falls in love with Abby.  This is a very light read but a sweet tale.	2001-02-02
US	51273643	R3IBX4B5EXDQVE	0515120871	434295698	Finding the Dream (Dream Trilogy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I hated to see the trilogy end	&quot;Finding The Dream&quot;, the final installment of the Monterey, California-based &quot;Dream&quot; trilogy, lives up to the promise of the first two books and makes it nearly impossible to select a favorite.  These three novels about &quot;sisters of the heart&quot; beautifully captured the essence of friendship and family.<br />This novel tells the story of Laura Templeton, the daughter of the proprieters of the Templeton Hotel chain and &quot;heiress&quot; of sorts to that fortune.  In reality the story is about Laura Templeton, divorced single mother of 2 girls, who won't cash in on her family's name (or money) and faces the very common problems of not enough time, not enough money, and not enough self-esteem after her crushing divorce.<br />Enter Michael Fury, certified bad-boy and close childhood friend of Laura's brother.  Michael takes up residence in the unused stables on Templeton property and Laura is forced to deal with a man she's always made a point to stay away from.  Both find that they have a lot of misconceptions about the other, and they slowly discover that they like and admire each other after all.  This is a romance novel, after all!  <br />I loved the &quot;Dream&quot; trilogy, and would be hard-pressed to recommend one book over another.  For perhaps the first time in one of NR's trilogies, no clear-cut favorite emerges.  They are equally wonderful.	2001-01-24
US	51273643	R1B996I2O0123D	0515120006	991145227	Holding the Dream (Dream Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Continuing the &quot;Dream&quot;	Nora Roberts continues what she started in &quot;Daring to Dream&quot; in this wonderful second book of the trilogy.  <br />Kate Powell, cousin to the Templeton children who was raised as one of their own after the death of her own parents when she was a child, has spent her whole life trying to be the best at everything she does so that she can &quot;pay them back&quot; for their generosity.  Close to her goal of becoming partner in an accounting firm, her world is rocked by not one but two revelations -- the first, that her father had a cloud of scandal hanging over him at the time of his death, and the second, that she suddenly finds herself facing a similar scandal.  In addition stress and worry make her ill, and she is forced to re-evaluate her life and her goals.<br />Kate is a wonderful heroine.  She's strong, independent, smart, and far easier to relate to than the glamorous Margo of the first book.  Her independent streak and desire to stand on her own take some getting used to for Byron De Witt, a southern gentleman through and through who is surprised to find himself falling in love with a woman so completely not his &quot;type&quot;.<br />As wonderful as it is to watch Kate's relationship with Byron develop, the best part of this book (like the first) is the relationship between Kate, Margo, and Laura -- three women who grew up as sisters and whose bond is stronger than blood.	2001-01-16
US	51273643	RCW62Y9GBQUB6	0515119202	446930812	Daring to Dream (Dream Trilogy)	Books	5	85	90	N	N	Wonderful	I have to start by saying that I'm a big fan of most of Nora Roberts' trilogies and other groupings of books about families.  That said, some are definitely better than others, and for me, this one was one of the best.<br />&quot;Daring to Dream&quot; is the first of this trilogy about &quot;sisters of the heart&quot; -- three women who grew up together in the same household.  Margo Sullivan is the heroine of this tale, and she has spent most of her life trying to shed the &quot;housekeeper's daughter&quot; mantle that she wears with no small chip on her shoulder.  She has made a name for herself in modeling and has traveled the world, but when her career falls apart she knows there's only one place she can go, and that's &quot;home&quot;.<br />Many readers who didn't care for this book seem to have felt that Margo was selfish and self-centered.  While I agree on the latter, I wouldn't say that she was selfish at all.  It was very clear that while she's very &quot;me&quot; oriented, she would have dropped anything at any time to help her friends if they needed her.  She's an extremely realistic character, and that means that she is, of course, flawed.  Those closest to her are always quick to point out her flaws -- in fact, she often refers to them herself.  But her best trait, they agree, is her loyalty, and this makes her the kind of person most people would want as a friend.<br />I also really enjoyed the love story in this book.  Josh Templeton, the &quot;heir apparent&quot; to a hotel fortune and her best friend's brother to boot, isn't at all the spoiled jet-setting playboy that some have said.  In fact, he works ultra-hard during the course of the book to prove his own worth, to show that he deserves his success and is not just a trust-fund baby.  He was the perfect match for Margo and it was sweeter (and all the more realistic) that he has loved her all his life.<br />A wonderful beginning to the &quot;Dream&quot; trilogy.	2001-01-10
US	51273643	R39ALK5071JSHB	0385316879	170822767	Journey	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Doesn't quite hit the mark	In &quot;Journey&quot;, the 50th (!) of Danielle Steel's novels, the author takes on new territory by addressing the incredibly serious topic of domestic violence and psychological abuse.  On the one hand Ms. Steel is to be commended for clearly having researched the matter and for steering away from stereotypes by having her heroine, Maddy Hunter, be a successful and well-known TV personality.  But at the same time, Ms. Steel reverts to those very same stereotypes -- anyone who happens to be from Tennessee and reads this book is bound to be offended by these characters and their &quot;white trash&quot; image (her words, not mine).  Why is it that whenever DS writes in a Southern character, their names are always Bobby Joe or Etta Lou or something similar?  I would imagine that Southerners might find this book loaded with stereotypes.<br />That said, DS does an excellent job describing the psychological abuse that Maddy suffers during the course of the book at the hands of her husband, Jack.  My main problem with this is that this couple have been married for SEVEN YEARS.  When the book begins, she is happy and in love and things are described as having been heavenly for the course of her marriage.  Well, it becomes obvious that Jack has always been domineering and controlling, but it seems very unconvincing to me that Maddy only now begins to feel suffocated by this relationship.<br />Lastly, I was extremely disappointed that Maddy did not emerge from her relationship with Jack until it was &quot;a sure thing&quot; with her new beau and close friend.  I think DS could have provided a much stronger message by allowing Maddy to rescue HERSELF from the relationship, be alone for a while, and then realize that she was in love with Bill and have it be a conscious decision to go to him.  As it was written, she moved right from one man to another, and you wonder if she is even remotely on the path to healing or not.  If DS was concerned about lengthening the story to allow for Maddy to spend some time on her own, she could easily have reduced it by 50-75 pages by just being LESS REPETITIVE.  This reptitive style of writing is getting worse with each book she writes and it's evident that churning out 2-3 books a year is adversely affecting the quality of the material.<br />In summary, I believe that fans of this author will enjoy this book, but I suspect will share some frustration at the convenience with which everything comes together at the end.	2000-12-27
US	51273643	R1317TSX0SUX2D	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not quite up to par	&quot;Heart of the Sea&quot;, the 3rd (and final) installment in this Irish trilogy, is the story of Darcy Gallagher and her collision course with that thing called love.  She claims - vehemently - not to be looking for it, but it finds her in the like-minded form of Trevor Magee, the wealthy American who has come to Ardmore to build the theater of his dreams, and moreover, to reconnect with his Irish roots.  It is but a mere step for Darcy and Trevor from attraction to interest to an affair, but when both fall over that final barrier and headlong into love, neither is willing (or able) to admit it to the other.  This of course leads to various misunderstandings -- Darcy believes Trevor is interested only in her physically, like so many men before him, and Trevor believes Darcy has to be lured into being with him with the promise of money and homes and travel.  Neither is right, of course -- and both eventually see the light with the help of some &quot;outside&quot; intervention.<br />That comes in the form of Carrick, the Prince of the Faeries, and his lady love Gwen, who have been waiting three long centuries to be able to be together again.  In the previous books in the trilogy we heard the legend and met Carrick and Gwen, and in this final installment both characters are getting impatient for their spell to be broken, which can only happen when Darcy and Trevor give their hearts to each other.  Having become quite invested in Carrick and Gwen getting their &quot;happy ever after&quot;, I will say that I was quite disappointed that their swan song is so briefly written.  The disappointment could have been lessened if Darcy and Trevor's ending was more elaborate, but there, too, the author chose brevity.  Perhaps I'm just sad to see the end of the trilogy, but I would have loved an Epilogue about these characters.<br />In summary, this book contained most of the best elements of the previous two (&quot;Jewels of the Sun&quot; and &quot;Tears of the Moon&quot;), such as wonderful descriptions of the Irish countryside that would do the Irish tourism board proud and warm, fully developed characters who the reader really can become invested in.  Yet, at the same time, there's something a bit more contrived about this pairing that just makes the book a bit harder to love.	2000-12-20
US	51273643	R25HGP1NPGOR7H	0373484100	216534554	Night Tales: Night Shift/ Night Shadow/ Nightshade/ Night Smoke	Books	4	55	58	N	N	&quot;Night Tales&quot; satisfies, if not sates	&quot;Night Tales&quot;, a 4-book collection re-issued in this volume, has as its focus heroes who operate best after the sun has gone down -- or at least, that's what the book's jacket would have you believe.  In reality, the books are related because the characters IN each of the books are related.  Other than a catchy marketing hook, night time doesn't really have a lot to do with anything.<br />In &quot;Night Shield&quot;, Cilla O'Rourke is a radio DJ who is threatened by a stalker.  Detective Boyd Fletcher and his partner are called in to investigate, and feelings develop between Boyd and Cilla that make protecting her his new top priority.<br />Book 2, &quot;Night Shadow&quot;, centers on Cilla's sister Deborah and her career as an assistant district attorney in a fictional town called Urbana.  For some reason, fictional towns irritate me, and it's probably because they are used in tales that are somehow supernatural or otherworldly.  This is the case here as well -- Deborah falls in love almost simultaneously with &quot;two&quot; men, one the wealthy businessman Gage Guthrie, and the other the city's do-gooder crime-fighter known only as &quot;Nemesis&quot;.  It's obvious to the reader immediately that the men are one and the same, and the reader has to wonder how Deborah doesn't see it right away.  In any case, the book is pleasant but if you're not a Batman fan (fictional dark cities, with images of a constant mist shrouding the hero's face), you may not enjoy this.  <br />In book 3, Boyd Fletcher's partner Althea Grayson meets her match in private investigator Colt &quot;Nightshade&quot;.  The two have to work together to track down a missing girl in a pornography ring, and sparks (both good and bad!) fly.  Meanwhile, Althea has to cope with some memories from her own childhood and she has to learn how to be loved.<br />Of the 4 books, the final book, &quot;Night Smoke&quot;, was my favorite.  Boyd's sister, Natalie Fletcher, is a businesswoman on the verge of opening up a new flagship store when a string of fires threatens to put a stop to her plans.  She has to work with arson investigator Ryan Piasecki to catch the &quot;torch&quot; and meanwhile, the two create some heat of their own.  <br />As with many of Nora Roberts' collections, you can really see the difference in the storytelling from the first book to the last.  This is less obvious when the books are all written during the same general timeframe, but when they are separated by a number of years (in this case I believe 7 from first to last), it is very noticeable.  This is not a bad thing -- it just shows her continuing progression as a writer.	2000-12-11
US	51273643	R3CT3CPBERFAAI	0373270976	896661657	Night Shield (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #1027)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A welcome addition to the &quot;Night&quot; series	&quot;Night Shield&quot;, the newly penned addition to the &quot;Night Tales&quot; collection, is probably the best book of the bunch.  Many years after the first tale was told, Boyd Fletcher's daughter Allison has followed in his footsteps and become a detective in the Denver PD.  Her first big case is to investigate a string of high-profile burglaries, and to do so she has to go undercover at a nightclub/restaurant where she believes the &quot;marks&quot; are being made.  This involves securing the cooperation of the club's owner, Jonah Blackhawk, a troubled teen-turned-self-made-businessman who has a general dislike for police.<br />This tale is very rich in the telling and has an added element in that Ally's father was instrumental in helping young Jonah turn his life around.  Jonah consequently feels he has a debt to pay to Boyd and, at the same time, isn't at all sure how he feels about getting involved with Boyd's daughter.<br />This is a very enjoyable &quot;chapter&quot; in the Night Tales collection.	2000-12-11
US	51273643	R3S7MUBWM8URCM	0446527033	213222268	The Switch	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great page-turner	&quot;The Switch&quot; is, at first glance, your typical identical-twins-switching-places thriller -- who is really who? -- but the author develops the secondary characters so strongly that a whole new dimension of interest is added to story.  The twins at the tale's heart, Melina and Gillian, are probably the LEAST developed of the characters, and that may be because the descriptions used to distinguish them are either purely physical (we're told multiple times that they're EXACTLY alike) or very obvious (e.g., we're told that one is circumspect while the other is outspoken, one's a leader and the other's a follower, etc.).  Even with the lack of distinguishing characters in the twins, the strength of the other characters ably carries the weight of the plot.<br />Some have complained that the book is too long.  On the contrary, I raced through this book in no time, and kept wondering as the pages remaining dwindled how the author could possibly wrap this up in time.  Well, wrap it up she did, and my ONLY complaint about the book would be that the strings are tied up too neatly, too quickly.  Perhaps the author, too, felt the book was running long, and tried to pack too much punch into the last few pages, rather than drawing out the finale.  Consequently the reader may feel a bit cheated out of a satisfying ending.  <br />Overall this was a very exciting, &quot;un-put-downable&quot; book.	2000-10-13
US	51273643	R10G4Z0MY0DF1C	0515114006	706341106	Private Scandals	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A gripping read	&quot;Private Scandals&quot; is a well-crafted murder mystery with a good dollop of Nora Roberts brand romance as well.  Deanna Reynolds, a news reporter-turned-talk show host, finds herself the target of a stalker's obsession, and must try to uncover her stalker's identity before anyone else around her -- or even she herself -- turns up dead.  Along the way she finds love and romance with a fellow newsman, and in so doing unwittingly triggers her stalker into desperate action.<br />Readers will fly through this nearly 500-page read as they race to the finish to either figure out who the stalker is or, as was the case with me, to see if their suspicion was correct.  For some reason I was confident very early that I knew who this person was, but knowing didn't keep me from staying up until all hours to verify it.  <br />This was an extremely well-written and very entertaining novel.	2000-10-09
US	51273643	R3NO0L3YWGQ9V9	0399146601	927649912	Shattered	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dick Francis back on form	As a confirmed Dick Francis fan, I can honestly say that &quot;Shattered&quot;, the latest in a long line of racing-related  mysteries, is the best thing Mr. Francis has written in several years.  His  previous two efforts, the short-story compilation &quot;Field of  Thirteen&quot; and the hurricane story &quot;Second Wind&quot;, both fell  far short of the standard one expects from this talented writer, but he is  back on track (so to speak) with &quot;Shattered&quot;.<br />Gerard Logan is a  glassblower whose closest friend, a jockey, is killed in a fall at the  racetrack.  The death of his friend is bad enough but Gerard soon discovers  that the secret videotape Martin had planned to entrust to him (and didn't  quite make it) has placed him in grave danger.  The enemies believe Gerard  does have the videotape and will do anything to get at it.<br />The  &quot;Francis style&quot; comes through clearly in this mystery, as Gerard  works through the real and potential dangers facing him and eventually has  the answers to &quot;who&quot; and &quot;why&quot;.  For people who read  Francis for the horse-related storylines, you may be disappointed.  Like  many of his most recent works, this novel only peripherally touches upon  the racing world.  After the death of Martin, which happens in the first  pages, there's only one visit to a racetrack and almost no description of  horses.  On the other hand, this could give the book a broader appeal for  those who are not equine-inclined.<br />A highly recommended read!	2000-09-20
US	51273643	R314BHWEQ28MTP	0425176169	893749225	From the Heart	Books	4	52	52	N	N	Another satisfying 3-for-1	&quot;From the Heart&quot; is a nice collection of 3 stories from earlier  in Nora's career.  <br />&quot;Tonight and Always&quot; tells the tale of an  anthropologist (Kasey) who goes to work with a writer (Jordan) while he  researches his next novel.  Other than a couple of oddities (like how a  25-year-old woman is &quot;renowned&quot; in her field!), it was a very  enjoyable, even unique tale.  Jordan's young niece, for whom he is  guardian, figures prominently into the story and it is nice to see a couple  dealing with not just their own feelings but those of another as  well.<br />&quot;A Matter of Choice&quot; is the story of an antique-shop  owner (Jessica) who is wealthy by upbringing, and an NYPD cop (Slade) who  is sent in to &quot;protect&quot; her and keep his eyes open as the FBI  tries to uncover the head honcho in a smuggling operation that is making  use of the shop.  It's kind of a stretch but it doesn't really matter --  the relationship that develops between the pair is snappy, fresh, and also  tender.<br />&quot;Endings and Beginnings&quot; is about 2 Washington-based  reporters.  Liv works for the local affiliate and T.C. Thorpe works for the  national network.  Their relationship takes longer to develop than some  others in NR's works, but it's also quite a bit more realistic.  Liv has  been hurt in the past and is not eager to open herself up again.  Thorpe,  being persistent, won't accept no for an answer.<br />All three of these  stories are easy reads but I wouldn't call them &quot;frothy&quot; or  &quot;light&quot;, which implies they have no substance.  NR fans should  enjoy them, as should fans of the more typical &quot;romance&quot; novel.	2000-09-14
US	51273643	R33U1JHF3VLUL5	0312971206	278062256	The House That Ate the Hamptons: A Novel of Lily Pond Lane	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Boring and confusing -- NOT a good summer read	I hate to admit that I have yet to finish this book, especially since I  NEVER put books aside in frustration.  This one became an exception, as the  overabundance of characters, jumpy storytelling, and boring name-dropping  (and unless you live in the Hamptons, you don't even realize names are  being dropped) really tried my patience.  I was really looking forward to  this novel and was extremely disappointed.  If I'm ever really hard up for  a read I may try and finish this someday, but more likely I'll re-read an  old favorite instead.	2000-08-28
US	51273643	R10WXCDXNAMYZH	0385333064	916616567	The House on Hope Street	Books	4	10	11	N	N	DS is back on track	&quot;The House on Hope Street&quot; is the best book Ms. Steel has  written in a long time.  She showed signs of her former self with &quot;The  Wedding&quot; and with &quot;Hope Street&quot; she returns to the style  that suits her best, telling a tale of love, love lost, and love found.   This book is not without its faults, but it's obvious that it was written  with more care than some of her recent works.  It's a small book and  therefore a quick read, but it avoids some of the pitfalls Ms. Steel has  become prone to such as repetitiveness just to fill up pages.  <br />If you  are a DS fan, you should enjoy this novel.	2000-08-15
US	51273643	R2S3TQXCR9SXIX	0373243286	48776421	Irish Rebel (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1328) (Irish Hearts)	Books	4	83	83	N	N	Irish Rebel	In &quot;Irish Rebel&quot; we get a long-overdue follow-up to the Grant family of Royal Meadows Farm, first visited in Nora's first book &quot;Irish Thoroughbred&quot; in 1981, then followed up in 1988 by  &quot;Irish Rose&quot;.  This new novel tells the story of Keeley Grant,  the daughter of the heroine of Irish Thoroughbred.  A daughter brought up  in privelege, Keeley has found her own calling, and that is in the  operation of a riding academy for the &quot;haves&quot; and  &quot;have-nots&quot; alike.  Brian Donnelley is an Irish horse-trainer who  comes to Royal Meadows to take over the training of Keeley's father's  stable.  Inevitably sparks fly between Brian and Keeley and Brian is able  to melt Keeley's &quot;ice princess&quot; facade.<br />The title is a bit  misleading because although Brian has some definite commitment and  &quot;settling down&quot; issues, Keeley is clearly the focus of this book  and in a way she's a rebel in her own right.  This book also shows how far  Nora Roberts' writing has come since 1981 (read all 3 books in progression,  and you'll see what I mean!).  This book has all the style elements of some  of her best works, and is just a very nice, enjoyable, low-stress read.	2000-07-28
US	51273643	R1C5T6XRXP90JP	0373484003	678331271	Irish Hearts (Mills & Boon Special Releases)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Lacks the charm of her newer Irish trilogy	&quot;Irish Hearts&quot; is 2 books in one -- Ms. Roberts' first-ever published book, &quot;Irish Thoroughbred&quot;, and its sequel, &quot;Irish Rose&quot;, published 7 years later.  The difference in style and character  development between the two is quite remarkable.  <br />While hints to NR's  current detailed writing style were evident in the first book it ultimately  comes across as very hurried and very &quot;convenient&quot;.  The main  character, Dee, is an Irish transplant living on a Maryland horse farm with  her uncle.  She falls in love (or perhaps more correctly said, lust) with  the owner of the farm, and he with her, and there is very little real  conflict in the book as a result.  It's very short (less than 200 pages),  and very important milestones in the relationship between Dee and Travis  are glossed over at best, leaving the reader rather unsatisfied.  This book  on its own would merit only 2 stars.<br />The second book, &quot;Irish  Rose&quot;, if far more fulfilling.  Dee's cousin Erin comes to the US to  work for Burke, the owner of a neighboring farm, whose primary motive for  bringing her over is to eventually sleep with her!  There's also the  explanation that he's giving her the opportunity to escape her dull,  small-town life and see some of the world.  Still, there's a lot more  tension and fire between these two characters than between Dee and Travis  in the first book.  Both characters are more complex and therefore the  reader can feel more emotionally invested in their union.  This book was  very well-written (save some equine inaccuracies) and probably deserves 4  stars.  So, I give 3 overall!<br />A caveat:  the 2nd book has many things in  common with another NR book, &quot;True Betrayals&quot;.  Horse racing,  gambling, winning the farm on a bet ... many of the basic elements are  there.  However, it is ultimately a very different story.	2000-07-14
US	51273643	ROE5YAS555ER1	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Well worth the wait	I loved &quot;Jewels of the Sun&quot;, the first book in this new trilogy, and so it was with eager anticipation that I awaited the June 30th release of this 2nd installment.  &quot;Tears of the Moon&quot; was well worth the  wait!  <br />In this tale, we get Shawn Gallagher's story.  Shawn, the 2nd  Gallagher son, is a musician and a dreamer by nature, and a cook in the  family's pub by profession.  Perfectly content with his life as it is,  Shawn has no plans to make any major changes -- which includes any  long-lasting romantic entanglements or making a career off his brilliant  music.<br />Mary Brenna O'Toole has been Shawn's sister Darcy's best friend  since childhood, and they've seen each other almost every day as far back  as either can remember.  Brenna's feelings for Shawn have been leaning  toward the romantic for some time now, and as Brenna is a &quot;doer&quot;  and not a dreamer, she decides to act upon them.<br />&quot;Tears of the  Moon&quot; is a wonderful, romantic tale of the changes that inevitably  take place when lifelong friends become lovers.  There are conflicts of  heart and mind, fear of losing the comfortable, easy relationship already  in place, and yet great anticipation that things could be even better.   It's also about accepting love that's offered, flaws and all.  Shawn and  Brenna take their sweet time accepting each other, which makes the book a  deliciously fast read as you race through to get to the point where they DO  accept each other.<br />Last but not least, the other star of this book is  Ireland itself, and as I've said in previous reviews, Ms. Roberts ought to  receive kickbacks from the Irish tourism board.  I certainly can't wait to  travel there and go hunting off the beaten path for a charming village like  Ardmore, where the cliffs meet the sea and there's always a friendly face  to greet you in the local pub.<br />I'm eagerly awaiting Darcy's story in  &quot;Heart of the Sea&quot;.  I expect she'll get her man. :)	2000-07-06
US	51273643	R2VZDF9KNYUCL9	1551660598	519753668	Without A Trace (The O'hurleys)	Books	4	87	88	N	N	A satisfying finish	Trace O'Hurley, the first of the O'Hurley children but last in the line of books, finally gets his story told in this very satisfying book.  Not a straight romance by any means, there is plenty of intrigue and excitement  to entertain the most distractable of readers.  <br />Trace, at odds with his  family for a dozen years now and tired of his world-travels and work as a  spy, is ready to throw in the towel when he is sought out by Dr. Gillian  Fitzpatrick, a scientist whose brother and niece have been kidnapped by a  radical terrorist group.  He agrees (for a large sum of money) to help  Gillian recover her family, but underestimates the bond that he quickly  forms with her.  Believing for so long that he is not meant to love or be  loved, Trace is reluctant to give his heart to someone and even more  reluctant to let anyone love him, lest he hurt them the way he did his  family.<br />The terrorist kidnapping plot certainly moves this story along,  although some of the details were a bit too easily resolved once the final  confrontation is in place.  The romance was extremely well-written and  believable, and things did not just neatly &quot;fall into place&quot;  there -- you knew they would wind up together but it wasn't overly  convenient for them to get there, just like real life!  The reunion of the  O'Hurley's after all is said and done really provides a satisfying end to  the &quot;quadrilogy&quot;.	2000-06-29
US	51273643	RFW3UX8LTKGN0	1551660504	389250905	Skin Deep (The O'hurleys)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Not just &quot;Skin Deep&quot;	Chantel O'Hurley, the &quot;oldest&quot; of the O'Hurley Triplets, has realized her lifelong dream of becoming a star.  Now she has the Hollywood lifestyle, the huge estate, the fans -- and a stalker.  <br />Another  reviewer's comparison to the movie &quot;The Bodyguard&quot; is right on,  and this thought crossed my mind several times as I read this book.  Unlike  that movie, the reader never really gets any good clues as to who the  obsessive fan might be.  The book centers much more on the inital love/hate  relationship of Chantel and her new bodyguard Quinn, and then focuses  almost entirely on their romance when they fall in love.  <br />In that sense  alone, &quot;Skin Deep&quot; was a bit of a disappointment as a  &quot;mystery&quot; because the stalker storyline was really only there to  move along the romance.  But let's be honest -- many NR fans read her books  for the romance, not the intrigue.  It's only in her newer books that Nora  has begun to write really well-crafted mysteries.  Since I'm sure the  O'Hurley trilogy (plus &quot;Without a Trace&quot;, about the triplets'  brother) was conceived as being essentially about the lives and loves of  these three sisters, NR did her job well here and writes an entertaining,  satisfying romance.	2000-06-29
US	51273643	R193SVFT32D493	155166321X	175487326	Dance To The Piper (The O'hurleys)	Books	4	108	110	N	N	A fine romance	This was the first of the O'Hurley series that I read, because it is almost impossible to tell which one goes first!  (FYI, for those who like to read things in order, I have now learned that &quot;The Last Honest  Woman&quot; comes first, then this book, then &quot;Skin Deep&quot;, and  last, I think, is &quot;Without a Trace&quot;.)  That said, this book was  very enjoyable.  Maddy, the &quot;youngest&quot; of the O'Hurley Triplets,  is a dancer by profession and by nature.  She has grown up in the theater  and knows nothing about hiding her emotions or her feelings -- they are  meant to be acted upon!  When she meets Reed Valentine and almost  immediately falls in love with him, she must learn how to deal with someone  who is less forthcoming than herself, and who may never be able to love her  the way she does him.  <br />Well, this is a Nora Roberts romance, so we know  she'll eventually succeed, but the book was very entertaining and enjoyable  in getting to that point.  The theater was vividly described, and the  primary characters were very sympathetic.  Also I especially liked the  character of Edwin, Reed's father.  This is a quick read but a good one!	2000-06-12
US	51273643	R1YAW8YQ7N9KYT	0785775978	905671096	The Hot Zone (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Frightening	I read a lot of books but NEVER this type of book -- I usually go for books that are fun or mysterious but not terrifying.  I picked up &quot;The Hot Zone&quot; because I'd heard so much about the book, and wanted to see  what everyone was talking about.  Between this book and the movie  &quot;Outbreak&quot;, out about the same time, I realized what a fragile  grip we have on our presence on this planet.  I kept reading and with every  horrifying page I kept having to remind myself, &quot;This is a true  story!&quot;  Richard Preston did a fantastic job putting together these  events in a gripping, page-turning (dare I say &quot;entertaining&quot;?)  way.	2000-05-18
US	51273643	R2AVCC9JDW7CBY	037540600X	68389017	Horse Heaven	Books	4	39	42	N	N	I'm in &quot;Horse Heaven&quot;	What a good book this is!  I have never read Jane Smiley before and have nothing to compare this to, but I found the writing to be excellent, the characters to be extemely well-developed and accurate, and her grasp of  horse-racing and the horse world in general to be masterful.  The amount of  research it must have taken for her to so correctly capture the little  nuances of everyday life with horses is boggling, and perhaps that is why  some -- people who are not &quot;horse people&quot;, as we call them --  found the story and characters confusing and hard to follow.  Ms. Smiley  must have immersed herself in the racing scene to prepare for writing this  book, and her readers do not have the same luxury.  Those that already know  what it's like (and that could mean from any &quot;horsey&quot; discipline,  like the hunter/jumper world) have a head start and therefore a great  advantage in reading this book.  I found her characterizations of ALL  creatures, be they human, equine, or canine, to be right on target.   Wonderful reading for the equestrian-minded!	2000-05-10
US	51273643	R1SENVV709CQMB	0515124893	581812266	Homeport	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Homeport	&quot;Homeport&quot; tells the story of Dr. Miranda Jones, a cold-on-the-outside but warm-on-the-inside art historian whose family name is synonomous with art and relics.  Her parents are cold and remote, but  all the same she has entered the family business and has carved out a name  of her own.  Into this scenario steps Ryan Boldari, a handsome, charming,  family man who happens to be an art thief.  Together he and Miranda must  find out who is trying to steal a priceless statue and ruin the  Standford-Jones reputation.  <br />This book provided a wonderful romantic  story, with a strong heroine and an equally strong (not sappy) hero in  Ryan.  Some of the most heartwarming parts were the most realistic -- Ryan  taking Miranda home to dinner with his family, Miranda simultaneously  heartbroken for and furious at her alcoholic brother Andrew (in fact, I'd  love to see a sequel on Andrew sometime).  All in all this was a very  enjoyable read.	2000-05-08
US	51273643	R3G0RZD34S9856	0553285785	282303108	Public Secrets	Books	5	122	122	N	N	This book made me a Nora Roberts fan	A friend loaned me &quot;Public Secrets&quot; a couple of years back, and it took me a few months to get around to reading it -- and only then because I'd run out of all my &quot;usual&quot; authors.  Suffice it to  say, since then I've been running out and getting my hands on as many NR  novels as possible, and it all started because of this page-turning  mystery.<br />Emma McAvoy gets whisked out of poverty and into the glamour of  rock-music at the age of 3, but those early years never quite fade away  from her memory.  She loves and idolizes her rock-star father and also  quickly loves her step-mother and her new baby brother.  When he is  tragically kidnapped, Emma's new world changes again, and she must live  with the guilt and the uneasy sense that she knows more than she remembers,  and she must force herself to remember to save her own life.  <br />This is a  wonderful, &quot;un-put-downable&quot; book, which I subsequently passed on  to all MY friends because I liked it so much.  Now that I have it back I'm  looking forward to reading it again!	2000-05-08
US	51273643	R2Q6W2UJ0CMJH9	0373079613	21160197	Enchanted: The Donovan Legacy (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #961)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Enchanted	I found this book to be mildly entertaining but not as good as the last two books in &quot;The Donovan Legacy&quot;.  The hero, Liam, is a witch who has the ability to shapeshift, and spends much time in the early  chapters in the shape of wolf.  In this form he keeps company with Rowan, a  confused woman who's in the woods &quot;searching for herself&quot;.  When  Liam revealed himself to her I was hoping she'd be a lot more angry with  him!  He had watched her undress, bathe, sleep, and he slipped into her  mind to dream with her.  Perhaps this book would have gotten 1 more star  had Rowan been less mild a heroine.  She herself refers several times to  how she has no pride -- that's for sure!  But all in all the book is a  worthwhile read if you have already read and enjoyed the other Donovan  books.	2000-05-02
US	51273643	R3CNC55ZVJW53	038531437X	698730676	The Wedding	Books	3	38	42	N	N	Much better than her other recent books	After &quot;Irresistible Forces&quot; I vowed not to get another DS book until I read the reviews here first.  Well, my husband bought &quot;The Wedding&quot; for me so I read it reluctantly, fearing more of the same.  I  was glad to find that the story was far more engaging than most of her  recent efforts, and in some ways tries to recapture her writing of old.  It  most closely resembles &quot;Family Album&quot; in tone and theme -- the  successful Hollywood family that looks perfect from the outside but has  many imperfections within.  There are several things in general, however,  about DS's writing that I find so irritating as to interfere with my  enjoyment of the book -- and I used to LOVE all her books until I started  reading Nora Roberts and saw how much better a writer she is (at least in  strictly technical terms).  DS uses the word &quot;important&quot; no less  than 5 times in the first 2 pages to convey to the simple reader that we're  dealing with real Hollywood heavyweights here -- OK, we GET IT!   Allegra's  father, the famous producer, is not accidentally named  &quot;Steinberg&quot; (Spielberg, get it?)and her mother's sitcom is not  called &quot;Buddies&quot; (&quot;Friends&quot;, anyone?) for no reason.  I  wish sometimes she would be less lazy in her storytelling and rely less on  famous names to get her point across.  And if I have to read yet again  about how beautiful the main character is (in this case Allegra) but how  &quot;completely unaware&quot; of it she is, I'll toss the book out the  window.  That said, the meeting and romance of Allegra and Jeff is one of  the best things DS has written in a long time, and she did a fairly good  job writing about all the hassles of having a modern-day wedding.  She's  back on the right track!	2000-05-01
US	51273643	R23FGRLGS8IAM1	0385317093	940363725	Granny Dan	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A less likeable version of &quot;Zoya&quot;	In keeping with her tendency to cover familiar territory, DS has gone back to the Russian Revolution with &quot;Granny Dan&quot;, a book that leaves you wondering ... well, why?  First, the whole concept of &quot;Granny  Dan&quot; -- the beloved grandmother who has died at the beginning of the  book having all this secret back history -- is absurd.  And as she has done  before, by starting the novel by telling you how it's going to end up, DS  manages to completely remove any chance at intrigue.  I don't have any  problem with Ms. Steel covering historical events in her novels -- for  example, I love her &quot;Titanic&quot; depiction in &quot;No Greater  Love&quot; -- but I do get increasingly irritated with her characters being  relatives of the Romanov family or other such royalty.  How about writing  about a completely unknown, totally unconnected person who lived during the  Revolution?  That might show some real insight into the struggle -- and I'm  sure you could get a love story in there too.	2000-04-18
US	51273643	R13KGEAR0L3GF2	0440200563	385998539	Fine Things	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Her best work	&quot;Fine Things&quot; was the first Danielle Steel book I ever read, probably 10 years ago by now.  I was up well into the night frantically turning the pages to see what would happen, and I was stunned to find  myself in tears more than once.  I can't emphasize enough the emotional  impact of this story.  This is also one of the few times that DS has  written a story primarily from the male perspective, and she did it  extremely well -- in fact even better than some of her recent books have  written about women!  Bernie isn't your run-of-the-mill hunky dreamboat --  he's a regular guy with problems in the romance department and an  interfering mom to boot.  His relationship with Liz and her struggle with  cancer was truly heart-wrenching.  If you have to read just one Steel  novel, make it &quot;Fine Things&quot;.	2000-04-18
US	51273643	RJLNV6WIQIDER	0440213282	665213296	No Greater Love	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Not meant to be a history lesson	From the tone of some of the other reviews, it's apparent that the reviewers didn't check the publication date of this book -- written LOOOONG before Leo and Kate jumped on board the &quot;Titanic&quot; and made a  little movie.  When I read the book all those years ago, I didn't know much  about the &quot;Titanic&quot; or the historical details that may be  inaccurate in this novel, so in fairness perhaps that's why my enjoyment  wasn't diminished at all.  The sinking of the ship occurs very early in the  book, and the reason for that is that it is a story about how this disaster  affected one family long-term.  I found Edwina to be a very realistic  character -- more realistic than most of Ms. Steel's heroines.  She was  concerned with keeping the family together and due to the selfishness of  her mother (going down with the ship and her husband), she is forced to  grow up too soon and be a mother to 5 children.  She does the best that she  can but they are only children for so long -- then they grow up and want to  live their lives independently, leaving Edwina feeling abandoned and proud  at the same time, and realizing that it is finally &quot;her time&quot; to  live life.  I've read this several times and I always enjoy it.	2000-04-18
US	51273643	R1YPZPSYUKGQ96	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Riveting	This first novel from Tawni O'Dell is so powerful that I am cannot imagine how she will ever follow it up.  It's a lot to live up to.  Harley is a modern-day anti-hero if there ever was one, but he doesn't really fit the  mold of an anti-hero because he does SO MUCH for his sisters and to keep  the family together even though he doesn't even realize himself why he's  doing it.  There's a passion in him that remains always under the surface,  hidden under the guise of a PennDOT cap and his father's old hunting  jacket.  The passion is for something but even he doesn't know what it is  -- it's not for a beautiful girlfriend or for sex or for money -- it's not  even the TRUTH that he so craves.  It's completeness in a way he has yet to  realize he will never achieve, because the completeness he's searching for  would necessitate a &quot;do-over&quot; of his whole life.  READ THIS BOOK.	2000-04-13
US	51273643	R2TFCBPP37ECM4	0552132640	965065358	Rivals	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Rivals	This is a great follow-up book to Jilly Cooper's first novel, &quot;Riders&quot;.  It continues with Rupert's story after the high-drama ending of the Olympics in LA, and now finds him retired from show-jumping and into politics.  He meets Declan O'Hara, the brooding, poetic Irishman  who has just moved to town.  Together they form a group to take over the  local television network, and this tale follows that frustrating, funny,  exhausting process.  Throw in an ambitious career woman, an unsatisfied  wife, and a young innocent who Rupert is stunned to find himself in love  with, and you've got a great story.	2000-04-11
US	51273643	RE637TIJGR6H9	0552138959	983242953	The Man Who Made Husbands Jealous	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun!	I'm in agreement with the other reviewers -- it's not her best (my opinion is that &quot;Riders&quot; and &quot;Polo&quot; are).  That said, I think it's an excellent escapist novel!  It's not really fair comparing it to  &quot;Riders&quot; -- the first is always the best.  Lysander is a fun and  different hero -- he may not be as smart or as witty as the leading men in  previous works (like Rupert) but he has a charming innocence despite the  &quot;job&quot; he's been hired to do of making womens' husbands jealous!   He has a genuine sweetness that shines through.  And don't skip over this  book in the order of things like another reviewer suggested.  It comes  after &quot;Polo&quot; and should be read that way!	2000-04-11
US	51273643	R26ABA9D18XJ80	0449217191	40854579	The Edge	Books	5	28	28	N	N	My favorite Dick Francis -- and I've read 'em all	I've read &quot;The Edge&quot; at least a dozen times since it was published and my enjoyment never diminishes.  The lead character, Tor Kelsey, is full of charm, wit, and plenty of humility -- his self-effacing ways lead one to wonder how it is he doesn't realize his own attractive nature.  The romantic relationship in this book was one of the most realistic ones Mr. Francis has ever written, possibly because the two involved spend enough time together to develop a real rapport (unlike some of his other &quot;romances&quot;, where the man and woman meet and suddenly have deep feelings for one another). While &quot;The Edge&quot; is less of a mystery than other books -- we know Julius Apollo Filmer's a bad guy from the start -- the characters are incredibly well-written and the book becomes more about seeing why Filmer does what he does and how he's going to get caught.  The Lorrimore family especially was very well-crafted, from the needy and petulant daughter Xanthe to screwed-up teenage son Sheridan to the &quot;money can't buy you everything&quot; father Mercer.  On top of everything else, Mr. Francis captures the beauty of the Canadian Rockies and the excitement of traveling by train.  I know that before I die I will have to take a train trip across Canada, and that's due to this book.	2000-04-10
US	51273643	RR5JFHO69Z0UX	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Engaging	I couldn't wait for this book to come out and I wasn't disappointed!  Nora Roberts sometimes gets accused (sometimes justly so) of making her heroines weak and dependent, but Tory doesn't fit that mold no matter how much she  herself feels she may fall apart.  Which doesn't mean she doesn't come to  need and depend on Cade, the wonderful brother of her childhood friend who  comes back into her life.  It just means that, having taking control of her  life and become her own master, she's finally ready to share that life with  someone who's not looking to control it.  The relationship between these  two was very realistic, very sweet, and a necessary part of Tory's healing  process from her abusive childhood.  As a murder mystery, there were few  real &quot;clues&quot; as to who the killer was, but I did guess halfway  through.  This didn't diminish my enjoyment, it just made me want to see if  I was right.  I also noticed the screw-up other readers have mentioned that  the author made in terms of the timing of the murders -- I wondered if in  editing all the dates got mistaken by 10 years or so.  After puzzling over  the inconsistencies and then reading the reviews on this website where  other people noticed the same thing, I let it go and didn't let it hinder  my enjoyment of the book at all.  It'll get fixed in the next printing.   Lastly, I agree the ending was fairly abrupt.  The book definitely could  have used an epilogue or something so that the reader would get some payoff  and see Tory and Cade happy, Faith restored (pardon the pun), and Progress  healed.  All in all, an excellent, page-turning story.	2000-04-10
US	51273643	R9H6EWE89FS5H	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	1	3	N	N	One of his best	I go hot and cold on John Grisham -- I liked &quot;The Firm&quot;, loved &quot;A Time to Kill&quot;, but then thought &quot;The Pelican Brief&quot; and &quot;The Client&quot; started sounding way too similar and derivative  of his first big hit, &quot;The Firm&quot;.  With &quot;The  Testament&quot;, Mr. Grisham is anything but derivative of his other works.   Sure, there's a disillusioned lawyer at the heart of the story.  Yes,  there is the usual array of greedy, money-hungry, over-the-top characters.   But there is more soul in &quot;The Testament&quot; than in any book since  &quot;A Time to Kill&quot;.  Nate's travels into the swamps of Brazil to  locate the unwilling heiress to a fortune of billions let us see past the  lawyer in him and to the man beneath, and to the mass of insecurities and  inadequacies that have turned him into a divorcee, an alcoholic, and an  absent parent.  Rachel Lane, the MIA missionary he has gone to find, subtly  points him in the right direction without him realizing he's being led.  I  read this book while I was in the hospital and it's the one thing that  could keep my mind off my own worries.  A very good novel!	2000-04-10
US	51273643	R18YC1MEGLCF1	037348397X	909727713	The Donovan Legacy: Captivated/ Entranced/ Charmed	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Charming	I didn't think I would like this book when I picked it up and realized the main characters were witches.  I have never been interested in the supernatural or the occult or anything of the sort.  Imagine my surprise  when I persevered and ended up enjoying the books very much!  The first  book, Morgana's story, was the weakest of the three.  Her gift is one of  magic and her &quot;tricks&quot; seemed very stereotypical things to write  of.  She was likeable enough but the story itself didn't grab me.  Then I  got to Sebastian's story, and I was really hooked!  His gift is of sight,  and he uses this gift to help recover a kidnapped baby.  His relationship  with Mel was realistic, their dialogue snappy and amusing, and it was just  all-around entertaining to read.  The last book, about Anastasia, was also  a winner.  Her gift of empathy makes her compassionate and strong yet  extremely vulnerable at the same time, and her relationship with the  unfortunately-named Boone was nicely developed (although at times it was  less-developed than the relationship between Ana and Boone's daughter,  Jessie).  The best-written relationship at all, of course, is that of the  three cousins themselves.  They may be only children but they act like  triplets.  I would definitely recommend this book to others, even if you  think the witchcraft aspect is not for you.  I didn't think it was for me  either, but Morgana, Sebastian, and Ana were almost as normal as the people  next door.	2000-03-29
US	51273643	R34QI1VZU3MM0S	0552124869	930050864	Riders	Books	5	23	25	N	N	My all-time favorite book	My Mom bought me this book on a trip to England back in the mid-1980's when it was published.  All she knew was that it was &quot;horsey&quot;, and I was a horse-crazy teen.  I have thanked her ever since for bringing  Jilly Cooper into my life!  Perhaps because it was the first,  &quot;Riders&quot; is still my favorite, although I love her subsequent  tales as well -- even the non-&quot;horsey&quot; ones.  The characters are  so well-developed, that there are so many people to love and hate -- and  hate to love!  Rupert should not be a sympathetic character, yet who  doesn't root for him in the final Olympic test of his heart and strength?   Jake is moody, broody, and takes Tory for granted -- yet OF COURSE you want  things to wind up well for him.  And even though Fen takes a detour into  bratty self-obsession, you have to hope that she and Dino will get it  together in the end.  I go back and re-read this book every year or two,  and EVERY TIME I hate to put it down, and I'm depressed when I reach the  end.  I hope Jilly Cooper continues writing about the antics of these  fabulous characters.  I'd hate to think &quot;Score&quot; was her last tale  about this group!  There are so many stories left to tell.  Read this book!	2000-03-23
US	51273643	R2539IVK6PE3MR	0028630394	908854107	Unofficial Guide to Walt Disney World 2000	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Don't leave home without it	I bought my first edition of this book in 1996 when I went to the park with my parents, my brother and sister-in-law, and my husband (not a child in sight!).  The book is very well-organized -- I was able to skip the  sections that were specifically designed for parents with young children  and go to the sections for adults.  I found most of the ride ratings to be  accurate, and to prove that the author's opinion is just that -- an opinion  -- they rely heavily on reader feedback when updating the book annually to  rate the rides.  They also have no problem printing contrasting opinions to  their own.  The author is very vocal about his dislike of Disney food, but  he has stressed that it has less to do with the food being awful than it  does with the price.  He agrees it's not awful -- just not nearly good  enough for the price.  (I, on the other hand, love the dining experiences  at Disney -- especially Epcot -- so I take the author's opinions with a  grain of salt.)  I'm planning another trip to Disney this fall -- this time  with my young nieces and nephews -- and will now need to go back and read  the sections I skipped about touring with young children!  An invaluable  travel resource.	2000-02-29
US	51273643	R3EOZ43RFLF3Z2	0515122734	942831312	Sanctuary	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Sanctuary	As (almost) always with a Nora Roberts book, I found myself quickly caught up in this tale of murder, mystery, and new romance.  I felt all of the Hathaway siblings were fairly well fleshed out as characters, although of  course Jo Ellen was the book's focus and the most fully developed.  I do  feel that in this story more than some others the resolution of the story  (and the Hathaways' relationships with one another) was too convenient and  tidy.  I mean you can't live with this kind of non-communication for 20  years and then over the course of a month or two let all those demons go.  All 3 siblings had issues that realistically would probably take more than  another person's love to solve.  But still, getting back to fantasy and not  reality, the book was an absorbing and satisfying read.	2000-02-23
US	51273643	RD7K9EKL4E8NJ	0515118559	110294177	True Betrayals	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Love and horses	I'm a Nora Roberts fan and a horse-lover, so my expectations for this book were high.  The book didn't disappoint, providing an entertaining story, strong characters to love and hate, and some mystery as well.  Although she  obviously did her homework about horse racing and the horse world, there  were still inaccuracies that got in the way of my enjoyment of the story.   Additionally, I found the analagies and puns about card-playing and  roulette and other forms of gambling to be overbearing -- one of those  times you just want to say &quot;We get the point, OK?  He's a  gambler.&quot;  Perhaps BECAUSE my expectations were so high, it doesn't  rate 5 stars, but still it was a good story and worthy of staying in the  bookshelf.	2000-02-23
US	51273643	R3B6CSPSLZHUJW	0515120618	337464343	Montana Sky	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Romance and mystery -- a great combo	I just read &quot;Montana Sky&quot; last week on vacation - and a good thing, too!  I never would have been able to get up for work since I couldn't put the book down until 2 every morning!  This was the first Nora  Roberts suspense novel in which I have not been able to guess who the  killer was until he was actually revealed.  I enjoyed it so much I started  reading it again to my husband - who's really a Stephen King fan, not into  &quot;romance novels&quot; - on the drive home.  He liked it so much he has  to finish the half we didn't get to on his own!  The developing  relationship between the three sisters, while you KNEW they would bond, was  still a lot of fun to see happening.  Willa and Tess were both great  characters, and while I found Lily a little too meek for my liking, the  strength that she developed redeemed her at the end.  Also, Ben was the  classic NR hero - tough, gentle, romantic, a bully - you know, the kind you  can't help falling in love with.  Just be warned - if you're looking for a  classic &quot;romance novel&quot;, you may have the same complaints some  others have about the violence in this book.  It does get a little graphic.	2000-01-13
US	51273643	R2AF7XLMXM1MDZ	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	104	110	N	N	I can't WAIT to go to Ireland ...	I swear Nora Roberts must get kickbacks from the Irish Tourism board.  Who WOULDN'T want to go try and find a village like Ardmore, and the wonderful people in it?  Some readers have complained of Jude's &quot;weak&quot;  character, and if I had tossed the book away halfway through I might have  agreed.  But the point is that people do develop and grow, and we got to  see Jude get over her insecurities.  People who don't think she's a  realistic character have clearly never been on the insecure side.  And  Aidan -- well, who wouldn't want to spend hours in his company?  Charming,  a captivating storyteller, a romantic, a man who knows himself and his  home.  I am so looking forward to reading about Shawn and Brenna, and then  of course Darcy and ... whomever.  I'm not normally into books where ghosts  and faeries are spoken of matter-of-factly, but even that aspect of the  story was enchanting.  I read the book to my husband in 2 days of driving  on the way back from vacation, and even he (a Stephen King fan) enjoyed it!	2000-01-13
US	51273643	R3FWE2OMII7CQ0	0385319606	577171295	Irresistible Forces	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Just say no	I used to be a big fan of Danielle Steel, eagerly awaiting every new release.  Well, now there are too many new books and not enough good ones, capped most recently by this very boring book.  It seems to the reader as  though Ms. Steel has used up all her ideas and keeps regurgitating them  over and over (and OVER) again.  She either doesn't give her readers enough  credit for being able to see where the story is going, or, more likely, she  keeps repeating herself, CONSTANTLY, so that it fills up space and she can  meet her page quota.  Not one of these characters was remotely sympathetic,  and no good reason ever came along for breaking up Steve and Meredith.  Conveniently, they each had someone to go to so I guess that makes it OK?  I don't know -- I don't care either.  Next time she writes a book, I will  NOT be the first one at the store to buy it -- I'll wait and read the  reviews here before I waste my time.	2000-01-02
US	51273643	R2EMN0BY2T72ZA	0515121843	313760392	Sea Swept (Chesapeake Bay, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Loved, loved, loved this book	Cameron is one of Nora Roberts' best leading men yet.  Brooding, not exactly heroic, and full of the little flaws that every human has, he proves himself to be the man that every woman wants in her life!  The  kinship between the brothers was strong, even though the other brothers  weren't too strongly written, but Cam's relationship with the young orphan  Seth was beautiful.  Not to mention that his romance with Anna was very  realistic -- sweet but also fiery.  A great start to the trilogy.	1999-12-22
US	51273643	R31AR05YEYD41	051512608X	950568892	The Reef	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Just short of satisfying	The first half of this book had me really enthusiastic.  Then Tate and Matthew were apart for all those years, and their reunion was not only less than realistic but had most of the initial spark missing.  You never really  knew why these 2 characters were together to begin with, except that they  were the only 2 young people in the story.  Fizzled out from a promising  beginning.	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R1WJW5433IV2M9	0373483899	986756277	The Macgregors; Alan ~ Grant (2 Books in 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Save your time -- skip &quot;Alan&quot;	This was my first introduction to the MacGregor books (I didn't know &quot;Serena-Caine&quot; came first chronologically -- couldn't they publish that inside somewhere?).  Anyway, I could NOT get into Alan's story  at all.  In fact, I had such a hard time I put the book away and started  reading other books -- it was 2 or 3 months before I ran out of other  material!  So I picked it up and slogged through it.  Neither character is  unlikeable, it's just that neither was realistic or particularly  interesting, for that matter.  The &quot;4 star&quot; rating above is  because I so enjoyed Grant and Gennie's story -- it's the only thing that  kept me going onto the other MacGregor books!  Gennie was strong but not  irritating, and Grant was a loner who needed not to be alone.  A really  enjoyable second story!	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R41NKXNB8HCNP	0515116750	17027728	Born in Ice (Born in Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A good romance	I didn't read either of the other books in this series but this one came into my hands through a friend.  I liked both Brianna and Grayson, and it's a pretty straightforward romance.  The third sister storyline is obviously  intended as the link to &quot;Born in Shame&quot;, but it's not as  intriguing or mysterious a link as is the one of young Seth in the Quinn  brothers trilogy.  Those books are even more satisfying, but this was  perfectly entertaining.	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R3K67JLSBZQ70P	0373483902	570313792	The Macgregors: Daniel-Ian	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Boring, boilerplate material	This was not even close to the quality of the other (more modern-day) MacGregor books.  Maybe if you're a fan of those &quot;historical&quot; romance novels, you'd like it, but if you like realistic, modern day love  stories skip these.  It was almost impossible to go back and picture Daniel  as a young man.  I'd rather think of him as the meddling, fiercely loyal  parent and grandparent he became.	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R7RZ5PKJBX2FU	0515124214	77915611	Inner Harbor  (The Chesapeake Bay Saga, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A satisfying end	Philip's story was very satisfying in that it finally wrapped up the mystery of Seth's parentage.  Unfortunately, I thought Sybill was a less likeable female lead than either of the women in the first two books.   While it was explained that she had her reasons for her actions, she was  hard to empathize with.  At the same time, Philip was more likeable than in  either of the first two books, and it was rewarding to get his  &quot;story&quot; at last.	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R3N29E0WIRHZS6	0373483880	675709450	The Macgregors; Serena, Caine-(2 Books in One)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well-written romance	This was the second of the MacGregor books I read, and I liked both Serena's and Caine's stories.  If I had to pick which I preferred, I liked Serena and Justin's story more, because he was such a charming, kind of  dangerous character.  Caine's partner, Diana, was meant to be colder on the  surface but it also made it harder for the reader to warm up to her.  Both  fun stories to read.	1999-12-17
US	51273643	R1AG9WNK0FBG4Z	051512317X	213252902	Rising Tides  (The Chesapeake Bay Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Almost as good as &quot;Sea Swept&quot;	If I hadn't read &quot;Sea Swept&quot; first I probably would have liked this book even more!  But it had a lot to live up to.  Also, Nora Roberts probably did Ethan a disservice in &quot;Sea Swept&quot; because he wasn't  portrayed as a very engaging or entertaining character in that book.  Well,  she did a great job in this book of proving that illusion wrong.  Ethan and  Grace were very well-written and you just wanted things to work out (even  though you knew they would!).	1999-12-17
US	51273643	RJTCKEE4PU2F3	0553290789	953079661	Genuine Lies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable	I like a lot of Nora Roberts' work so it's hard to say which are the &quot;best&quot;.  This isn't her best by any means, but even Nora not at her best gives us entertaining, page-turning reading, and that's what this  is.  No, Julia's not the most sympathetic character in the world -- she  comes off as ungrateful and just plain cruel sometimes -- but those very  characteristics added some realism to what could have been a very  one-dimensional character.  Sure, Eve was a manipulative &quot;Hollywood  type&quot;, but aren't those the most fun?  Not as easy to guess  &quot;whodunit&quot; as in some of her other books, either.	1999-12-14
US	51273643	R2L17BHIUXJVA4	0552135526	282700839	POLO	Books	5	20	20	N	N	As good as &quot;Riders&quot;?  I think so!	&quot;Riders&quot; was my first introduction to Jilly Cooper as a horse-crazed teenager, but since then I've enjoyed most of her books, not just the horsey ones.  That said, &quot;Riders&quot; and &quot;Polo&quot;  are my favorites!  Coming from the show-jumping world myself, where  &quot;Riders&quot; centers, I didn't know (or care) much about the  upper-crust world of polo.  That all changed once I entered the world of  Perdita, Luke, and Ricky!  Sure, Perdita's often an extremely unsympathetic  character -- but aren't we all?  Her all-too-human tendencies are what make  her such an engrossing character, and even though she doesn't seem to  deserve a saint like Luke -- isn't that what we all hope for?  A person who  can look past our failings.  While another reader calls her characters  one-dimensional, I strongly disagree.  Jilly has created characters that  readers such as myself absolutely PRAY will show up again in future books  -- it's that hard to put them away at the end.  You don't create that kind  of interest in one-dimensional characters.  Please, Jilly, keep writing  about these people we love!  And while you're at it, write another horsey  book!	1999-12-14
US	51273643	R1AXUFMMY85POQ	0515116068	917028433	Hidden Riches	Books	5	11	12	N	N	One of her best	This is one of my favorite Nora Roberts books.  I absolutely loved the character of Jed, and Dora is one of the best female protagonists Nora Roberts has written.  She doesn't come across as needy, weak, or remotely  unsympathetic -- she's strong and independent and still a lot of fun.   There was no real &quot;mystery&quot; in this book -- you knew who was  trying to steal and why -- but that's okay.  I was so wrapped up in Jed and  Dora's story that it didn't really matter what happened with the  &quot;hidden riches&quot;.	1999-12-14
US	51273643	RM6027BP49PN3	0553110942	737734239	Carnal Innocence	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Entertaining and hard to put down	I just finished reading this book and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it.  Nora Roberts seemed to capture the pace of the South and she wrote an incredibly charming lead in Tucker.  Caroline was also a pretty good  character but she was less fully developed than Tucker and even a couple of  the others.  I like to guess &quot;whodunit&quot; and this time I did guess  -- less than halfway through the book.  However, having an idea who the  killer was didn't remotely diminish my enjoyment of reading it -- I just  wanted to see if I was right.  A recommended read!	1999-12-14
US	51273643	R177N6Q6LGJKP0	0553278592	140699390	Sweet Revenge	Books	4	48	55	N	N	Riveting reading	I've read about 30 Nora Roberts books and there are very few I haven't liked, which makes it hard to choose favorites!  But this would have to be one of them -- &quot;un-put-downable&quot; to the end.  Sure, it's not  exactly her most realism-based book -- a fictional country, a  jewel-thieving princess, an Interpol agent who happens to be an ex-thief  himself -- but who reads for realism anyway?  The tension that Adrianne  felt returning to her native Jacquir transmitted to the reader, and I  couldn't wait for her to get out safely.  A very good read.	1999-12-14
US	51273643	RKYDZ9WXNAX4A	0552143235	483295661	APPASSIONATA	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Classic Jilly Cooper	This book is excellent!  I'm a horse lover and first found Jilly Cooper's &quot;Riders&quot; on a trip to the UK.  Since then I've tried to read everything she's written, and I'm seldom disappointed.  I know very little  about the world of classical music but it didn't matter -- her books are so  character-driven that it's them you get wrapped up in, not so much the  subject matter.  This book gave us a &quot;fix&quot; of our favorite  characters from past books, but introduced new characters just as  interesting and complex.  Other characters on the periphery of previous  books (like Flora from &quot;The Man Who Made Husbands Jealous&quot; and  Marcus from &quot;Riders&quot;) become main characters here, and you have  the pleasure of seeing them grow up.  You don't need to be a horse fan to  love all Jilly's books!	1999-12-14
US	51273643	R3B4BY9JO9Z2KJ	0399144706	763909406	River's End	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not her best but entertaining enough	I'm a Nora Roberts fan and enjoyed the book while I read it, although I did feel it tended to drag in places, especially in the overly-lengthy descriptions of the forest in the Pacific Northwest.  I too had my &quot;guess&quot; as to who the killer was fairly early on, but it didn't  diminish my enjoyment as it did for some readers -- it just made me want to  find out if I was right.  Noah was a very well-written character but I felt  that Olivia could have been fleshed out better.  Despite the tragic loss of  her parents at such a young age she somehow didn't come across as all that  sympathetic a character.  A good book, worthwhile reading, but not one I  plan to read again soon.	1999-12-14
