US	51283859	R1AJO0E05PWMH7	0060197269	819331822	Depraved Indifference	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Cynical clowning	Having trounced recklessly over the real lives of protagonists of recent well known trgedies (the murders by the Menendez Brothers of their parents; the murder of Versace by a disturbed hanger-on) and having resorted to the camouflage of \\"fiction\\" (or \\"faction\\" as it is being called) in order to allow himself the license to be as clowningly cruel as he apparently cherishes being, Indiana trudges on to another tragic real-life case, the case of Sante Kimes and her son.  Certainly they were sociopaths, but Indiana is so intent on sketching cartoonish characters and being cloyingly \\"cute\\" that he brings no insight to bear on the real-life protgonists or the extremity of their actions, larceny, arson, etc.  In the process, and with childish glee, he ridicules everything and everyone, including  Mexican maids, skipping past the truly disturbing implications of incest (as he did in his book on the violated Menendez brothers). And his prose!  His \\"sentences\\" are so tangled in wayward phrases that they wind about themselves and choke any meaning he may have intended.  Only a reader who wants to see how bad a \\"novel\\" can be, will have the stomach to plow past even the first few pages of this truly obnoxious performance.	2002-02-04
US	51283859	R1HD2QZ6LG6XOV	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Turgid, unedited pretentions	This book is so shoddy, so badly written, so pretentious and turgid that it is extremely likely that no editor ever read it, that Ms. Oates merely types her latest draft(fast) and sends it off.  Her reputation--perhaps based on some pretty good stories she wrote years ago--has become so blown up, so exaggerated, so over-rated that she can get away with this.  Reviewers then dutifully review, and juries dutifully award.  How scandalous for good literature.  If anyone bothers to actually read this novel that purports to be loosely based on the story of the poignant, beautiful actress Norma Jeane, who became Marilyn Monroe, they will encounter writing that strives to be poetic by repetition, blurring phrases that &quot;seem&quot; profound and that say nothing, writing that a sophomore in college should be ashamed of.  But here it is, and despite all the negative reviews, there are the gasps of &quot;Masterpiece,&quot; and &quot;great&quot;--dutiful reactions for this writer of exaggerated reputation. The book is full of contempt toward all the author's characters, especially her protagonist, clearly the object of envy.  There are scenes of gratuitous cruelty that purport to investigate the most intimate aspects of the movie star's life, including bodily functions.  Finally, one word describes the only possible, intelligent reaction to this monstrous creation:  Revulsion.	2001-07-30
US	51283859	R19MVEVBTYKUQ4	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	10	16	N	N	Convenient contradictions, eh?	Ms. Oates has claimed quite publicly that she felt Norma Jeane (who became Marilyn Monroe) guided her hand to write this piece of unadulterated trash.  How, then, can she disassociate herself, when convenient, into the contradictory position that this is all fiction, nothing real, all invention, based loosely--  Etc. She further claimed she came to feel that only she could tell the story of Norma Jeane, and in a leap that would be awesome if it were not ridiculous, went on to claim that she then felt what it was like to &quot;be&quot; her.  Lots of contradictions, eh?--as her chracters are fond of asking:  Eh?  However one may look at this book--fiction, claimed possession--it is unabashedly horrible.  The prose is turgid, pretentious; in places it clearly does not make sense.  When a friend pointed out that in one place a refrigerator runs out of the house to hang clothes to dry, I didn't believe it--until I read it myself, and there it was; that's how the sentence reads. I suppose Ms. Oates' admirers would say that that's part of its surrealism?  Nothing of the sort; it's merely another example of Mrs. Oates' recklessness; she's reckless with prose, reckless with another's life, reckless in her contradictions about its creation.  And then there's the heavy-handed philosophizing about acting that makes as much sense as, well, actors speaking about acting, except that here Ms. Oates presents the bombast seriously.  She's used the bare bones of Norma Jeane's poignant life story to imbue with her distortions and envy of the movie star.  One has a feeling of years-long detestation of the beautiful woman by Ms. Oates, and, here, finally, pay-back.  But she's not the only one on whom Ms. Oates heaps her contempt. Men, especially gay men, come in for gross mistreatment--except for Arthur Miller, who, however, comes off looking like a wimp.  Is that because he's Ms. Oates' friend? All of these considerations would pale if the novel were a sound literary work.  It isn't.  Amasterpiece?  That designation demeans the word for anyone who admires literature.	2001-07-06
US	51283859	R3GSIQZKQO65QT	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	8	12	N	N	A monstrous creation	Apparently readers stayed away in droves from this ... what to call it?  Despite massive publicity it never appeared on bestseller lists; nor did it appear on lists after the television version, which usually sends a book's sales soaring no matter how bad the adaptation.  That's a tribute to readers, since this novel is about as terrible as a book can get.  It's not about Marilyn Monroe, it's about a creature that Oates has dredged out of some depths in her heated mind, a creature she sets out to torture, expose to abject humiliation, expose to the kind of scrutiny of her sexuality that would violate any woman, or man, for that matter.  How would Ms. Oates feel is someone took fictional liberties like this with her own life?  It might happen, if this book got published--but then who would be interested in such a novel about Ms. Oates? That anyone would suggest that Marilyn Monroe would welcome this hideous exploitation--that's beyond comprehension; that anyone who is literate would consider this good writing--that, too, is beyond comprehension.  That it was nominated for several book prizes-that shames the judges, renders the process of selection suspect.  There is no story, just words, words, words--most of them in italics, on the assumption, I suppose, that italics automatically suggest profundity and poetry.  There is nothing profound here, nor poetic; Oates doesn't know how to write a good sentence, if this is evidence--and I appreciate genuine experimentation, the carefulness, say, of Joyce's stream-of-consciousness, or Virginia Woolf's, the play of words by Nabokov.  This is just typing, fast typing that was sent out without reading.  I doubt that any editor ever read it before it was rushed to the stores in the belief that the name of Marilyn would push it through.  It didn't, and that's the only good news about this truly monstrous creation, an insult to serious readers lured by its public relations puffery. If it were possible to give a book zero-stars, then this book would deserve such.	2001-06-30
US	51283859	R2K1ETLFINEOAZ	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Astonishingly horrible novel	I went to this novel because I saw Part 1 of the miniseries based on it--only Part 1, because the whole thing was so bad, so tasteless that I didn't want to follow it further. Apparently many others felt exactly the same way since the television special was a gigantic flop.  Could the novel--by a well known writer I had heard of but not read before--be that bad?  I decided to find out for myself, having read the dozens of bad reviews that decried it.  I had an open mind, not being particularly partial to Marilyn Monroe, whom I thought of as a beautiful actress who died young.  If the miniseries was stomach-turning terrible, the novel is much worse.  I can think of one word:  Repugnant-and that would be so if the author had written about someone named &quot;Carol.&quot;  There is a terrifying anger that runs through this novel, as if its main purpose was to assault an object of jealousy, a beautiful woman, to humiliate her, bring her down--yes, debase her in scenes of mind-boggling vulgarity.  Oates is relentless in her attack on her protagonist, and in her extreme anger she seems to become almost unintelligible, the way people do when their anger is simply spilling out. I paused often to try to decipher what she was saying, and I realized that it was impossible; it was just ranting, certainly not the careful stream-of-consciousness of great authors, no-it was a stream of non-sense.  Hundreds of pages of such unintellible writing--nothing experimental about it, just plain bad prose--make me wonder whether those who praise this novel, and even nominated it for literary prizes, have actually read it.  Truly I doubt it. How could its admirers ignore rampant sentences that result in unintended humor, real howlers. (I have to admit that those come as a relief to the turgid prose.)  Finally, the novel is insulting because it is presented as a literary work.  I hope never again in my life to read anything this trashy; and I realize now that the television play (what I couldstand of it) paled in comparison to the awfulness of this ... novel.	2001-05-24
US	51283859	R3A9DQCGXCOXGE	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Lingering bad taste	There are those novels that continue to haunt, lingering in one's mind long after one has finished reading them--and that's so because they are so good, beautifully written, and/or narrating a story with such perception that one continues to be illuminated. There are also novels so bad, so tasteless, so embarrassing that they leave a bad, rancid after-taste.  Such a novel is Oates' &quot;Blonde.&quot;  I doubt that this novel would have been published if it did not come from the very proflific writer of such huge literary reputation (the book makes one wonder what that reputation is truly based on), something like an inherited, now unexplored reputation.  I can't get the ugliness of it out of my mind.  That has nothing to do with the fact that it purports to be the story of an actual person--Oates clearly knows absolutely othing about the actual Marilyn Monroe and apparently didn't feel she had to; it has to do with an obsessional attitude toward the author's subject, to explore every detail of her fictional character's sexuality, and to do so clearly judgementally while pretending, in interviews, to be sympathetic to her character.  And the writing!  I would challenge any one of literary acumen to clarify for me passages of convoluted writing that would get excoriated in a sophomore paper.  Repetition!  The book might have been edited to make a short story--still repugnant but at least for a shorter time--of perhaps 50 pages.  Does Oates revise?  Is she so satisfied with her reputation that she feels she can simply sit down and type?  I wonder whether people actually read her any more, or just simply praise her by rote.  There is no other way to explain how any truly literate person might find this to be literature.  The best description I can find for this novel is that it is messy, squalid.  Pretentious?  Some of the characters are nothing but walking symbols that Oates uses to assault her main character:  The Prince, the Princess.  No character emerges out of this with more than a shadowy outline, certainly not the main character of Norma Jeane, who is a prop for the author to heave sexual fantasies upon.  And what fantasies!--including necrophilia. I finished the book only to be able to sustain my opinion of it.  It is a total embarrassment.	2001-05-16
US	51283859	R12FLXSO1BUTV4	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Haunting, beautifully written	I read this novel in one sitting, into the night.  The way the novel is structured, it keeps you moving from one character to another, reticent to leave one, and then eager to meet the next one.  It is almost orchestrated in its form, and in the rhythms of the language--a different style for each of the dozen or so characters.  The honesty in the novel might make some people flinch, but that is only an indication of how unsparing and truthful it is, capturing the excitement of a past time, as well as the unforeseen dangers.  Rechy is especially effective in his recording of the so-called S&amp;M scene--obviously he has known it and now explores it with brutal candor, as it is.  Beyond its subject, the novel asserts why Rechy is today considered one of our foremost writers.	2001-03-02
US	51283859	R2VA08EXPB8NYB	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Morbid, exploitive novel	Is this really the author who gets written about with so much praise?  After reading this really terrible book, I kept wondering whether there was another Joyce Carol Oates, or whether those who praise her just do so dutifully because she's written 1000 books. Certainly, no literate person could possibly praise something this badly written, repetition on every page, vague meandering sentences (certainly not the careful stream of consciousness of a James Joyce)--and what is particularly awful is the meanness of the book, the way the author clearly despises/envies her subject.  Why else is there so much obsessive conjecturing about the sex life (imagined) of a beautiful woman? Why else so much denigration?  Norma Jeane/Marilyn Monroe  --whatever else one may think about her--was never boring, and her life, sad, and tragic though it was at times, always fascinated.  The fascination here is morbid, literally --some scenes are revolting.  This was my first introduction to this well-known author, and I was truly stunned that the whole confection could be so squalid, so messy, so explotive, so truly badly written.	2001-03-02
US	51283859	R2CO2EOH9Z4P81	0299160947	623910073	Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations	Books	2	4	14	N	N	Missed opportunity	Too bad that the editors of this collection have featured themselves more prominently than the excellent writers who contributed to this &quot;anthology&quot; and aren't even featured. If you glanced at the cover, you'd never know that the book includes such well known writers as Sue Ellen Case, George Chauncey, and John Rechy, whose lucid essay is a highlight of this collection that all too often bogs down in &quot;queer-theorizing&quot; jargon, relieved by some excellent vintage photographs, drawings, and reproductions of posters and relevant documents. More of the same editorial attention might have been applied to some of the dense pieces.	2001-02-20
US	51283859	R3LS6BAPG0BP5F	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Awful and pretentious, eh?	I kept from reading this novel because of all the terrible reviews it was getting all over the place; but then I decided no novel could be that bad.  I was wrong--it's worse.  The prose is at times undecipherable, and I kept reading only to see whether it would become even worse.  It did.  Ostensibly the story of Norma Jeane who became Marilyn Monroe, it amounts to drivel, hot-house imaginings about another's sexual life, pretentious pronouncements about acting and just about everything else Oates can conjure up, including (really!) stuffed birds. And why does every character have to end sentences with, &quot;Eh?&quot;  Oates should be ashamed of herself for this flagrant concoction.  And pretentious?  Oh, my, just glance through all the italicized passages and you'll get an idea, just a hint, of how awful the whole thing is.  I've never read any of Oates' other novels, dozens and dozens, but this one is enough. More than enough.	2001-02-02
US	51283859	R1ZUCDRAGUJW3B	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Awful and pretentious, eh?	I kept from reading this novel because of all the terrible reviews it was getting all over the place; but then I decided no novel could be that bad.  I was wrong--it's worse.  The prose is at times undecipherable, and I kept reading only to see whether it would become even worse.  It did.  Ostensibly the story of Norma Jeane who became Marilyn Monroe, it amounts to drivel, hot-house imaginings about another's sexual life, pretentious pronouncements about acting and just about everything else Oates can conjure up, including (really!) stuffed birds. And why does every character have to end sentences with, &quot;Eh?&quot;  ....  And pretentious?  Oh, my, just glance through all the italicized passages and you'll get an idea, just a hint, of how awful the whole thing is.  I've never read any of Oates' other novels, dozens and dozens, but this one is enough. More than enough.	2001-02-02
US	51283859	R3M39PII3O9UP5	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An instant classic	It would be impossible to list the vast number of novels that have been assaulted by reviewers and that history has elevated into the ranks of classics.  Rechy's first novel, &quot;City of Night&quot; is one of those; despite some petty and nasty--and envious reviews--it has outlasted them all and become an acknowledged classic of modern literature. I believe that this novel, Rechy's twelfth in a body of work that is as impressive as that of any other American writer, will be one of the latter.  I know of no work of fiction or non-fiction that more expertly--and movingly, and, yes, more frighteningly captures the crucial moments before AIDS struck than &quot;The Coming of the Night.&quot;  Not only that but it does so in a prose that is lyrical and harsh at the same time, and he is unsparing, both in depicting the rampant and exciting sexuality and sensuality of those times but in viewing it all with an uncompromising eye that celebrates as much as it warns a new generation.  Clearly, Rechy was there, and he is a reliable witness.  Surprisingly, the novel is not only filled with unforgettable characters, who are poignant; but it is at times very humorous--capturing both the highs and the lows of those recent, but now historical days of sexual abundance.  The ending is breathtaking, and it has continued to haunt me.  For over 30 years Rechy has produced work that is memorable, with an impressive range.  This novel reveals him at the peak of his artistic powers, and, like his earlier novels and the memorable non-fiction work, &quot;The Sexual Outlaw,&quot; it will surely outlast its critics.	2001-02-02
US	51283859	R22Y96M9HDAQDF	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An instant classic	It would be impossible to list the vast number of novels that have been assaulted by reviewers and that history has elevated into the ranks of classics.  Rechy's first novel, &quot;City of Night&quot; is one of those; despite some petty and nasty--and envious reviews--it has outlasted them all and become an acknowledged classic of modern literature. I believe that this novel, Rechy's twelfth in a body of work that is as impressive as that of any other American writer, will be one of the latter.  I know of no work of fiction or non-fiction that more expertly--and movingly, and, yes, more frighteningly captures the crucial moments before AIDS struck than &quot;The Coming of the Night.&quot;  Not only that but it does so in a prose that is lyrical and harsh at the same time, and he is unsparing, both in depicting the rampant and exciting sexuality and sensuality of those times but in viewing it all with an uncompromising eye that celebrates as much as it warns a new generation.  Clearly, Rechy was there, and he is a reliable witness.  Surprisingly, the novel is not only filled with unforgettable characters, who are poignant; but it is at times very humorous--capturing both the highs and the lows of those recent, but now historical days of sexual abundance.  The ending is breathtaking, and it has continued to haunt me.  For over 30 years Rechy has produced work that is memorable, with an impressive range.  This novel reveals him at the peak of his artistic powers, and, like his earlier novels and the memorable non-fiction work, &quot;The Sexual Outlaw,&quot; it will surely outlast its critics.	2001-02-02
US	51283859	R2FM8FKIRYJTGC	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Pretentious, badly written exploitation	There seems to be a confusion about the wide negative reaction to this novel.  Surely the reaction of adults is not based on the graphic sexuality here, which amounts only to exaggerated and heated fantasies about another's life.  There are many novels much more graphic than this one, fine novels.  No, the reaction of disgust--and that includes mine--is the sheer, unabashed exploitation of a real woman by another woman.  Of course, the book is presented as a novel, but it wants to have it both ways, using real names and identifiable events, radically altering actual lives for an imposed view of the movie star.  Then there's Ms. Oates' claim that her hand was guided by Norma Jeane, that she, Ms. Oates, came to feel like the blonde movie star. Ms. Oates feeling like Norma Jeane/Marilyn Monroe is preposterous and embarrassing!  Beyond all that, even a cursory look at the novel reveals some of the sloppiest writing being published today.  Experimental?  Literary?  Nonsense.  The fact is that some of Ms. Oates' rambling sentences and lofty pronouncements simply do not make sense and often result in the only humor in the novel, unintended humor.  The novel does, however, provide the answer to Ms. Oates' protigious output.  Based on ample evidence in this so-called novel, she simply does not revise. At its best, &quot;Blonde&quot; reads like a rambling first draft by a writer of inflated reputation.  As Truman Capote is reported to have said about another writer, &quot;This isn't writing, it's typin'.&quot;  Ms. Oates obviously types a lot and very fast.	2001-01-05
US	51283859	RM9B7ZR0NR557	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Fit for National Enquirer	Much of this sordid, messily written novel would not be out of place in the National Enquirer, although it would take hundreds of issues to publish.  The book--difficult to call it a novel--is endless, and the story it tells, purporting to be that of a fictional Marilyn Monroe/Norman Jeane is at best preposterous, at worst violative and insulting.  Although pretesented as fiction, it uses the bare bones of the Marilyn Monroe story on which to hang all its heated fantasies, mostly dirty conjectures that make one wonder why the author harbors so much anger against the movie star.  Because she was beautiful?  The rest of the characters here are equally impossible, especially an imaginary menage that Oates conjectures with two gay men, both so nastily portrayed that one wonders what attitudes underlie their creation.  All would be moot if the book were well written, but it isn't.  There are passages that are impossible to decipher logically. And repetition!  Does Oates read over her work any more?  Is that the reason why she is so prolific?  Is it possible that the Empress wears no clothes?	2000-11-14
US	51283859	R3OVRO8V0A59O2	0061180017	929863761	Lost Years: A Memoir 1945 - 1951	Books	1	9	18	N	N	Isherwood Embarrassment	This is the most embarrassing book I know written by a writer of literary reputation.  It is a mean-spirited, self-aggrandizing work that will only detract from the author's standing as a serious author.  There are repetitive renditions of affairs, including intimate details that make one wonder why this book, not finished, was published posthumously at all. Gossipy, and spiteful, awkwardly written, this is a shameful document, not literature.	2000-11-10
US	51283859	R1X2ZMZ46A3VQO	0380810727	290625796	State of the Arts: California Artists Talk About Their Work	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Golden State	This is a wonderful book about the most complicated state in America, California.  The voices representing it are diverse, and strong, and a picture emerges of the Golden State that is as rich and varied as the State itself.  David Hockney has been profoundly influenced by the lavish spectacle of this sun-splashed state.  Carolyn See illuminates with her incisive, uniquely wry voice.  John Rechy's take on the physicality and spirituality of a profound Los Angeles is worth the price of the book.  Even those who have abandoned it--lots of rationalizations about that--are heard, like Joan Didion and her husband, who long for the state they left, substituting the sun and the easy, exhibitionistic narcissism for the hard-core reality of New York.  There's a wealth of fresh observations, like Luis Valdez's, and there's even a typically laconic entry from Clint Eastwood, who is--surprise, surprise--not entirely profound.  But overall the voices are strong, assertive--and, indeed, the Golden state emerges as a powerful state of the creative arts, original artists commendably impossible to label.	2000-11-05
US	51283859	R2NTX1DLFYMCYO	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	16	28	N	N	Worst Book of Year Award	Of course I'd heard about Joyce Carol Oates; she has quite a reputation.  I marveled that she could write several books a year, and I wondered how.  Eventually, I would read one of her novels, and now I have, &quot;Blonde.&quot;  I understand several things now, and others bewilder me.  What I understand is how she's able to write so much--she doesn't revise, probably doesn't even go back to read what she wrote.  It's impossible otherwise to read messy sentences that don't make sense, repetition over and over and over, incredibly stilted writing.  Apparently and for some reason her reputation has made her some kind of untouchable writer, who is just simply praised and given prizes. I doubt that those who praise this novel and propose it for awards even bothered to read it.  It surprises me that a novel as badly written and offensive as this, purporting to be an &quot;illumination&quot; of Norma Jeane, even got published--I know, I know it was because Oates wrote it.  It's a really brazen story that pretends to follow Norma Jeane from an orphanage to stardom as Marilyn Monroe.  In the process, Oates degrades the great movie star to the point that one wants to throw the book down; but continues to read to see just how far the author's resentment of a beautiful woman can go.  Pretty far.  There are scenes that repel, and when you think the author can't heap any more humiliation on her subject (or victim), she comes up with more.  On top of all this, I've read that Oates actually claims some kind of mystical possession by Norma Jeane, that she guided her hand to write this.  That is absurd, of course; and that Oates would pretend to know what it felt like to be the startlingly beautiful movie star is utterly unbelievable and cheeky. But there you are; this book comes from a writer who has, for some odd reason, been in effect canonized, and is dutifully praised. I doubt that even her editor read this trashy novel  I can think of one prize this book would deserve, though:Worst Book of the Year, and surely it will be a contender for worst book of the decade.	2000-10-16
US	51283859	R2ASZ5G17BIYUJ	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	9	14	N	N	Lingering bad taste	I read this novel two months ago--in short installments; short for two  main reasons: first, the prose was shockingly amateurish, as if a first  draft had been rushed through into production, without care, recklessly;  second, the cruelty of the treatment was difficult to tolerate, the  obsession with another's sexuality displaying so much anger and perhaps  envy for the object of that obsession.  Even if this were a totally  fictional account, the view of it as reckless would hold, if only because  the writing is so bad, but also because the effect is of a fevered  imagination loosed on its subject, as if in some kind of fury.  That the  object of all this was an actual person aggravates every criticism.   Especially astonishing is that Oates has gone on record as claiming that  Norma Jeane actually guided her hand along in the writing, that she, Oates,  knew what it was to BE Norma Jeane!  Oates as Norma Jeane, who became  Marilyn Monroe,is preposterous. I cannot immagine anyone  &quot;inspiring&quot; these truly obscene observations about herself to be  placed on paper, to be leered at. I finally managed to finish the book, so  that I would be able to express a credible reaction to it; and that  reaction is that the book has left a lingering bad taste.	2000-09-09
US	51283859	R1AKUQ55YTUBP6	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Lingering bad taste	I read this novel two months ago--in short installments; short for two  main reasons: first, the prose was shockingly amateurish, as if a first  draft had been rushed through into production, without care, recklessly;  second, the cruelty of the treatment was difficult to tolerate, the  obsession with another's sexuality displaying so much anger and perhaps  envy for the object of that obsession.  Even if this were a totally  fictional account, the view of it as reckless would hold, if only because  the writing is so bad, but also because the effect is of a fevered  imagination loosed on its subject, as if in some kind of fury.  That the  object of all this was an actual person aggravates every criticism.   Especially astonishing is that Oates has gone on record as claiming that  Norma Jeane actually guided her hand along in the writing, that she, Oates,  knew what it was to BE Norma Jeane!  Oates as Norma Jeane, who became  Marilyn Monroe,is preposterous. I cannot immagine anyone  &quot;inspiring&quot; these truly obscene observations about herself to be  placed on paper, to be leered at. I finally managed to finish the book, so  that I would be able to express a credible reaction to it; and that  reaction is that the book has left a lingering bad taste.	2000-09-09
US	51283859	R1OF7V702MDIM9	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Shoddy narrative, shoddy writing	That some reviewers are assuming this to be a &quot;true&quot; rendering  of Marilyn Monroe's life adds shame to this clumsily written novel. Putting  aside Oates' shocking invasion of another's life--a life she clearly has  envied and resented for long, and now assaults for that reason--the book is  an example of bad writing throughout.  It's not that Oates experiments;  it's that she now feels she can punch out anything and get it published.   All anyone has to do is to read it even cursorily to find sentences that  result in howlers; dangling participles throughout, repetition, pretentious  observations that can't stand scrutiny and are clearly intended to be  profound.  The year isn't over; but I doubt that anything like this truly  monstrous novel will be published, unless, of course, Oates is on her way  to publishing her billionth novel, without even reading over it, or,  apparently, having her editor read it over for glaring errors. This book is  surely among the worst ever written by a writer who takes herself  seriously.	2000-08-12
US	51283859	R26OAB1DMEQLOX	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Reckless prose, reckless assault	I had avoided reading this novel for several reasons. I had read many very negative reviews that took Ms. Oates to task both for the content of the novel as well as for what was described as messy, hurried writing.  I had,  too, been aware of the extraordinary publicity that was given to the  novel--full-page ads, television interviews, magazine articles everywhere;I  had never seen so much promotion before for a novel deemed to be  &quot;literary.&quot;  Yet the book was not on the bestseller lists, and  that seemed odd, given all that publicity.  I attended a meeting of a  Marilyn Monroe fan club one Sunday--I'm not a member, but I am a fan--and I  heard the novel being criticized very strongly by both men and women in the  club.  I was surprised that there was not one exception in the criticism,  and again the criticism was aimed both at the content and the writing.  I  bought the book, to find out for myself what was eliciting these  reactions--and, very soon into it, I knew why:  It is, indeed, a badly  written novel.  Anyone who appreciates literary prose will see that  immediately, especially after having read Susan Sontag's new novel, and  Annie Proulx's fine prose.  Beyond the careless prose (does Ms. Oates read  back over her work, let alone revise?), the &quot;story&quot; supposedly  told from the point of view of Norma Jeane (Ms. Oates as Norma Jeane is a  somewhat remote concept)is ludicrous in its excesses. Was it possible that  a woman as beautiful and talented would detest herself so violently, as Ms.  Oates' character does?  Or is it Ms. Oates who detests Marilyn Monroe?   Whatever the reason, the novel is relentless in its assault on the movie  star.  There were places where I became so angry that I swore not to finish  the novel.  But I returned to it, expecting that perhaps at the end I would  understand its true purpose.  But there was no revelation.  The end was the  worst, a heated hallucination, sexual images linked with ghastly death  images.  No one deserves this done to her life.  I begin to wonder whether  the secret of Ms. Oates' prolificacy lies in the fact that she simply  writes whatever comes to her mind, and that recklessly.	2000-07-17
US	51283859	R2E8X6E4ZAJR68	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	9	15	N	N	Shameful performance	I read this novel after reading the &quot;Kirkus&quot; review on this site; the reviewer called it &quot;one of the worst novels&quot; ever written by a serious author.  That seemed to me surprising, to say about a  well-known writer I hadn't read but had read about. I decided to read the  book, feeling that it could't be that &quot;dreadful and turgid&quot; and  written in &quot;leaden prose,&quot; as that reviewer went on to say.  I am  sorry to say that after the first few pages of this truly turgid prose and  the outrageous imposture of Oates that she could actually assume the voice  of Norma Jeane, I began to feel that the reviewer had actually been  restrained.  It's an embarrassing novel that pretends to follow the  emergence of Marilyn Monroe as a star.  The portrait Oates paints drips  with contempt for the movie star, and all her characters.  The only humor  in the book is unintentional, when her sentences become so convoluted that  they become howlers.  The ending, where Oates imagines the death of Marilyn  Monroe is unpardonable, violent and ghoulish.  Anyone who can find humanity  in this book--or good writing--must NOT have read the book that I--and  apparently the Kirkus reviewer, as well as many, many other reviewers--have  read, truly one of the worst, shamefully offensive.	2000-07-04
US	51283859	R29VK6D1WD7FBI	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Extreme violation	Although Ms. Oates asserts that her novel is not intended as biography, the fact that several readers and reviewers are taking as actual facts its many distortions about Marilyn Monroe emphasizes the extreme violation  undertaken by Ms. Oates.  This is even more outrageous in that she has  claimed that she felt Norma Jeane guiding her fingers to write  it--&quot;from the inside.&quot;  I confess that I had never read Ms.  Oates' novels before, but I knew of her reputation, and so the least I  expected was a beautifully written novel. Instead, I encountered writing  that seems to have been left unrevised; there is repetition throughout,  sentences that run on aimlessly, rambling, messy prose conveying  observations that attempt to be profound and, finally, only confuse.  The  characters are props--cold allegorical Symbols--and the rampant, abusive  sexual violence that is attached to Marilyn Monroe's name is reprehensible.   I now wonder whether all of Ms. Oates' work is marred by such hurried  writing, or is it just this novel that is so awkward?  I don't think I  shall find out, because this novel is more than enough exposure to such  violent extremity.	2000-06-27
US	51283859	R2OB98J7VMVQEG	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Cruel novel, messily written	Since Ms. Oates has boldly claimed that during the writing of this book she felt what it was like to &quot;be&quot; Norma Jeane, and came to feel that only she could tell her story &quot;from the inside&quot; (starling  statements indeed, yet there they are in her own words), it's difficult not  to chastise the result, a novel which is told, in places, in the first  person voice, supposedly that of Norma Jeane.  Norma Jeane despising  herself, hating her own beautiful body, judging herself, insulting herself  repeatedly as a &quot;cow&quot; and much worse!  Ms. Oates claims she did  extensive research on the life of Norma Jeane/Marilyn Monroe, yet there  occur, throughout, not embellishments but total distortions, reversals.   Using actual names, Ms. Oates turns two men who were notoriously  heterosexual in real life into detestable gay lovers. Ms.Oates even allows  glaring anachronisms in order to express her disdain.  Another despicable  character is a Monroe impersonator, who strips entirely on stage, turning  out to be a leering, hideous man. Such stage nudity was not possible at the  time. Strange reversals indeed.  Beyond all that, the novel is badly  written, reckless, offensively sexually violent about a woman whose actual  name Ms. Oates uses--Marilyn Monroe, a woman who did lead, finally, a  tragic life and doesn't deserve added horrors, however fictive.  (Ms. Oates  seems to want her book taken both ways, as the voice of Norma Jeane--how it  &quot;felt to be her&quot;--and as total invention.) All the characters  become only names relying for any &quot;life&quot; solely on their  real-life antecedents.  It seems to me that even Ms. Oates' most loyal fans  would be insulted by this messily written book and that she will surely not  gain new admirers with it. It is a cruel novel, told in pages and pages of  unedited writing.	2000-06-08
US	51283859	R2M922O0RH5MCV	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	10	14	N	N	Reckless, over-wrought novel	It's been almost two months since I read this truly awful book, and the sense of it still lingers with me like an after-taste--those horrifying scenes of sexual brutalization that Oates makes up for her fictional Norma  Jeane/Marilyn Monroe; those endless ruminations on God-knows-what,  rambling, incoherent; those mean-spirited passages that pretend to be Norma  Jeane's judgement of herself, but are, of course, Oates' judgement of Norma  Jeane.  Based on what?  Oates owes her fans an apology, for allowing this  reckless, over-wrought book to go out like this; didn't an editor see it?   Is Ms. Oates so beyond reproach (but why?) that no one cautioned her about  this disaster? I can't think of another book so messy in every way.	2000-06-02
US	51283859	R36EDZ86VXFDHS	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Worst book of the year	The year isn't over, not even half over, but I doubt that there can be another book this bad published this year, perhaps even for a longer time.  The writing, which tries to pass itself off as &quot;poetry&quot; (in  italics yet!) reads at best like a rushed first draft, unrevised,  repetitive, at times incoherent.  The story itself about a  &quot;fictive&quot; Norma Jeane is grueling.  Oates uses some details from  Marilyn Monroe's actual life and then shrouds it in trashy fantasies,  mostly violently sexual, so ugly at times that the reader has to recoil  from it, especially since those parts are linked to a real person, however  fictionalized.  Despite all the publicity that Oates has received because  of the association to Marilyn Monroe, readers like myself will feel a  strong aversion to this tawdry performance.	2000-05-23
US	51283859	R6QBPRD36XGKS	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Why was this novel left out?	Each year, I wait in anticipation for book prizes, all the way from the Pulitzer Prize, National Book Awards, to more specialized prizes, like gay awards--Lambda, Publishing Triangle.  Having read this novel and  considering it one of the best in a long, long time, it appalls me not to  see it appear in the prize-awards listings, especially the gay ones, since  the mainstream prizes are usually very predictable and safe.  I keep  wondering why Rechy's novels are left out so often.  I believe he's one of  the best writers today.  Is he left out because he won't compromise?  Tells  the truth that others simply want to ignore?  And he tells it in a  beautiful style that changes from book to book, to fit his subject.  Here,  the 12 or so characters he follows for one day and night, are assigned  different styles, that characterize them; it's awesome.  Then there are the  moody sections about the winds, the night coming.  It is a stunning book,  and yet look at the books that got the gay awards, all good, sure; but not  one of them has the scope of this one.  I think it's time that Rechy not be  exposed to this arbitrary prejudice, whatever its origin.  I believe he's  been the object of hostility since his first great novel, &quot;City of  Night,&quot; and through &quot;Sexual Outlaw&quot;--and even his  &quot;non-gay&quot; books like the beautiful &quot;Miraculous Day of Amalia  Gomez&quot;--which still has a gay character. Sure he writes about sex, and  in this novel it is very graphic. It should be, since he is writing about a  time when sex was everywhere, and he exemplifies it, beautifully.	2000-05-23
US	51283859	R14PQ8U79P8QAG	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	6	14	N	N	Awesome arrogance	There came Joyce Carol Oates riding on Marilyn Monroe's fame!  Everywhere I look on interview TV, interview Radio, interview print, there's Carol Oates waxing authoritatively on the life of Marilyn Monroe, and yet  obviating all criticism of her violent assault (here, it's called &quot;a  novel&quot;) on the beautiful movie star.  I couldn't believe that Oates  had actually claimed that Norma Jeane had guided her hand to write this  tacky book, and I couldn't believe that Oates claimed that she felt she was  the only one who could, finally, tell Norma Jeane's story, and that, in the  course of her writing, she actually felt what it was like to &quot;be&quot;  Norma Jeane! I couldn't believe that until I checked it all out, and there  it was, in Oates' words, interviewed.  Wow!  Joyce Carol Oates as Norma  Jeane/Marilyn Monroe!  Awesome arrogance, eh? As for all the interviews, it  took Marilyn Monroe to get Oates all this attention.  And what for?  For a  novel that is sloppier than anything I have read in my memory, full of  made-up scenes of hideous sexuality, meanness aimed at all her characters,  women, men, gay and straight.  Joyce brings no new fictive insight into  this mess, only salacious imaginings, garnered from only she knows where.   I kept pushing myself to plow through its zillion pages, in fascination at  how bad it was.  But I couldn't bring myself, finally to finish the last  pages, that's how awful it was to read Oates' brutal account of Monroe's  death.  Perhaps stranger books will be written this year.  If so, it will  be a really terrifying year in literature.	2000-05-12
US	51283859	R3QI1YWNVDQ18P	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	20	28	N	N	Flagrant distortions, messy writing	...Oates'...passage that involves a &quot;menage a trois&quot; withMonroe, Chaplin, Jr., and Edward G. Robinson, Jr.--two small-timeactors of the time--...is symptomatic of what makes Oates' novel uttrerly shameless and cruel.  No such menage occurred in Monroe's life, and--most significantly--the two men Oates involves in it--lovers according to her--were not gay at all; they were known heterosexuals, and one didn't even know the other. Fiction, you say. Yes, but how significant that Oates chose to change these two heterosexuals into gay men of utter viciousness and cunning, the worst in the whole long, boring novel..., with its flagrant misue of lives to hang her fantasies and grudges on.  In an interview, she claimed an arrogant right to Monroe's actual life, going so far as to say she felt she was &quot;the only&quot; one who could tell her story from &quot;inside.&quot; She claimed Norma Jeane guided her hand through the writing.  Doesn't that indicate that Oates would like her novel viewed as an &quot;accurate&quot; account?  Certainly so, if dictated by the protagonist. Yet any criticism leveled at that kind of rampant abuse is thwarted by reminding that this is a novel.  There is much contradiciton there.  Just as horrible as its content is the book's messy writing, convoluted, repetetive, pretentious.  The Kirkus reviewer described it accurately as &quot;one of the worst novels ever written&quot; by a writer taken seriously.  I would add that it is also one of the most insensitive novels, cruel to its protagonist and to the other charactaers whose lives she alters to fit her very odd purposes.	2000-05-04
US	51283859	R147G0IKVT9GFL	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Strange Attitudes	Is this a terrible trend?--some wellknown women authors writing novels that are clearly homophobic?  There's Toni Morrison's &quot;The Bluest Eyes,&quot; and Oates' &quot;Blonde.&quot; Morrison makes up hateful gay  characters, and Oates goes farther:  She CONVERTS two known heteroexuals  (Charlie Chaplin, Jr., and Edward G. Robinson, Jr.) into GAY CHARACTERS.   Why?  It's true that all the men in this strange novel are monstrous, but  the straight characters Oates turns gay (really strange twist) are the  worst of all.  It's strange that these authors, having known abuse as women  (and Morrison for her color), would extend it to another minority....  The  Oates novel is weird in many others ways.  It pretends to get into the head  of Norma Jeane, in order to make her hate herself.  But that comes off more  like Oates hating Norma Jeane.  I doubt that any woman would ever refer to  herself as a &quot;Cow,&quot; over and over or by using the &quot;C&quot;  word.  The worst thing about the book is the writing, which is messy, and  the lifeless characters, all of which become Symbols. Some of the stuff  contained here is trashy, about Marilyn's sex life, etc.  I read that Oates  claims she came to feel that she WAS Norma Jeane, felt that Norma Jeane was  talking THROUGH HER. Not only is that weird, but Oates as Norma Jeane is  utterly remote....  I bet if this book didn't have the name of J.C. Oates  attached to it, it would have been rejected right and left.	2000-05-01
US	51283859	R349HYZPE7UQPN	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Trashy fantasy	Anyone who reads this book expecting to discover any insight into Marilyn Monroe will be not only disappointed but disgusted by the violent sexual fantasies Oates imagines for the movie star, and not only that, but they're presented as self-judgements, instead of what they are:  Oates' judgement  on a life entirely unlike her own.  Yes, it is fiction, but Oates keeps  insisting that Norma Jeane actually guided her hand, that she, Oates,  BECAME, Norma Jeane.  Even those who know nothing about Marilyn Monroe will  be appalled by this violation by Oates. The sexual scenes constantly  humiliate Monroe; all the men in the book are evil, especially the gay men  who actually send &quot;Death&quot; to her! The women are hardly  better--always whimpering and begging and inviting their abuse.  How many  years did Oates nurture these views which she now vents?  And the writing!   It is incredibly clumsy, as if it was written off the top of Oates' head, a  tapestry of violent fantasies, convoluted.  Does Oates bother to revise,  ever?  Once she wrote good books, but it may be that now, counting on the  blind loyalty of her fans, she feels she can shove anything for publication  and it will be greeted with praise, although, it seems, declining praise. I  agree with the person who remarked on good writing as exemplified currently  by Dianne Johnson, Susan Sontag; they're stylists, real writers.  This  novel by Oates seems to be written as a salacious series of installments  aimed at the Enquirer.	2000-04-29
US	51283859	R1JG63K8YWS60N	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	9	9	N	N	Assault on beauty	Marilyn Monroe was a beautiful woman, one of the most beautiful.  She celebrated her own beauty.  Many people derided her for that, mimicked her brutally, and the reason, unstated, was vengeful. Now she's gone, and the  vengeful attitudes have found outlet in novels, books about her.  Joyce  Carol Oates' novel is a salient manifestation of that.  In an interview  Oates went so far as to claim that she came to feel that she WAS Norma  Jeane, that she felt Norma Jeane's hand guiding her to write. (That notion,  Oates as Marilyn Monroe, is ridiculous.) At the same time, she wants to  disengage herself by claiming over and over that this is only a novel. In  its endless pages, there runs a current of resentment toward the beautiful  woman, an attitude that manifests itself by degrading her, throwing a  blanket of resentment over her life.  The novel's chronicling of Norma  Jeane's rise to stardom is followed with angered eyes, judging her at every  step, ridiculing her. Beyond that, Oates seems now to be relying so totally  on the guaranteed loyalty of her fervid fans--who seem to care nothing at  all for the beautiful movie star-- that she seems now to feel that she can  turn out book after book after book without attending to its prose, its  structure, simply setting down random thoughts that quite often do not make  sense at all, using arcane language, dialogue that does not sound like  anything anyone would speak, tricks that are arbitrary and just throw the  whole novel into upheaval.  Then there are the truly ugly sexual fantasies  about the protagonist's sexual life.  The novel is, altogether, a vengeful  assault on a woman who, in addition to being beautiful, was also a  wonderful actress, a woman always striving to assert her intelligence,  which she exhibited throughout her life.  She doesn't deserve this.  If the  novel were beautifully written, then there might be justification for it as  fiction, just fiction.  But the prose is as reckless as the  characterization of Norma Jeane/Marilyn Monroe.	2000-04-26
US	51283859	R18JTP1S6GBCW2	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Assault on beauty	Marilyn Monroe was a beautiful woman, one of the most beautiful.  She celebrated her own beauty.  Many people derided her for that, mimicked her brutally, and the reason, unstated, was vengeful. Now she's gone, and the  vengeful attitudes have found outlet in novels, books about her.  Joyce  Carol Oates' novel is a salient manifestation of that.  In an interview  Oates went so far as to claim that she came to feel that she WAS Norma  Jeane, that she felt Norma Jeane's hand guiding her to write. (That notion,  Oates as Marilyn Monroe, is ridiculous.) At the same time, she wants to  disengage herself by claiming over and over that this is only a novel. In  its endless pages, there runs a current of resentment toward the beautiful  woman, an attitude that manifests itself by degrading her, throwing a  blanket of resentment over her life.  The novel's chronicling of Norma  Jeane's rise to stardom is followed with angered eyes, judging her at every  step, ridiculing her. Beyond that, Oates seems now to be relying so totally  on the guaranteed loyalty of her fervid fans--who seem to care nothing at  all for the beautiful movie star-- that she seems now to feel that she can  turn out book after book after book without attending to its prose, its  structure, simply setting down random thoughts that quite often do not make  sense at all, using arcane language, dialogue that does not sound like  anything anyone would speak, tricks that are arbitrary and just throw the  whole novel into upheaval.  Then there are the truly ugly sexual fantasies  about the protagonist's sexual life.  The novel is, altogether, a vengeful  assault on a woman who, in addition to being beautiful, was also a  wonderful actress, a woman always striving to assert her intelligence,  which she exhibited throughout her life.  She doesn't deserve this.  If the  novel were beautifully written, then there might be justification for it as  fiction, just fiction.  But the prose is as reckless as the  characterization of Norma Jeane/Marilyn Monroe.	2000-04-26
US	51283859	R2D756MH6H6CKK	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Vulgar, badly written novel	Leaving entirely aside the connections to Marilyn Monroe drawn up in this novel, one is nevertheless left with an astonishly badly written exercise in vulgarity.  Ms. Oates repeatedly aims the crass &quot;C&quot; word at her fictive character, to the point that one recoils.  The prose is at best  &quot;lax,&quot; and the only humor occurs when a sentence becomes so  entangled that the result is hilarious. Ms.Oates' character begins as a  victim and continues for over 700 pages as a victim.  In the interim, Ms.  Oates puts her through a spectrum of degrading situations. It is surprising  that anyone could praise this tawdry, messily written, repetitive novel as  a masterpiece.  Even if Ms. Oates' character had been called  &quot;Carol&quot; instead of Marilyn or Norma Jeane, the novel would be as  crude as it is. If readers want truly superb prose, narrative power, and  carefully delineated characters, they should look to Susan Sontag, say, or  Toni Morrison.  I think that with this shoddy novel Ms. Oates has reached a  low point in her career as a serious writer.	2000-04-24
US	51283859	R1V0XDROI22A5B	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	8	11	N	N	A shameful performance, all around.	It's distressing to me to read the violent criticism that Oates' fans are aiming at those who disagree about their view of this really terrible novel.  The word &quot;Masterpiece&quot; recurs with amazing regularity;  the tone is almost the same in each &quot;review.&quot;  To call those who  dislike this book &quot;fascistic&quot; is extreme, as extreme as this  novel that purports to be non-fiction, and yet uses actual names.  The book  at times is so assaulting that one has to put it down, disgusted by some of  the sexual details that Oates makes up; they amount to violent fantasies,  really.  To say that this book is well written is to say that one doesn't  recognize good writing.  Messy, has been used, and I agree with the Kirkus  reviewer that called it &quot;one of the worst novels ever written.&quot;   Oates should indeed be ashamed of herself.	2000-04-21
US	51283859	R33411I7GVOLXX	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Sad Violation	.... I have read Ms. Oates' novels before, and although I'm nota fan, I've enjoyed some of her writing.  Not this novel.  It is astartling study in grotesque extremity.  The character (yes, fictive) of Norma Jeane is devastating.  I have seldom felt that a writer detested her character more than Ms. Oates does here.  She seems to want to rake her through the mud, and does, with overwrought sexual fantasies of humiliation (some of which made me put down the book before I could resume reading it to see how far it would go). The men are all vile; the women are all deranged.  There are some great novels with despicable characters, but they are superbly written.  This is simply a very badly written book....  There are sentences and passages that make no sense, no matter how you try to figure them out.  As to the matter of the real Marilyn Monroe.  Ms. Oates insists on pointing out she's a fictional character here and that that allows her to do whatever she wants.  Yet she's spoken about feeling she is the only one able to tell her story from &quot;inside.&quot; The fact of the matter is that the movie star (I'm not a fan of hers, though I like some of her performances) is clearly violated.  A paradox: Ms.Oates writes about her character's violation and ends up violating her more, providing a portrait of a woman crippled by her beauty and sensuality. The real Marilyn Monroe was very beautiful, clearly, and it is possible that that fact, more than any other, has aroused much retributive envy, in this novel and in reactions to it. Clearly Marilyn Monroe had a troubled life. But Ms. Oates puts her character named after the real Norma Jeane through a further purgatory.  And that is very sad.	2000-04-20
US	51283859	R2XBZQL8JX7S4U	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Long, unrevised draft	I've read Joyce Carol Oates before and admire some of what she's written.  But is it possible that she now believes everything she writes, no matter how unrevised and unpolished, will be published and that her loyal fans will buy and praise it?  This novel is shockingly badly written, like an  excessively long first draft.  The characters rely for whatever  &quot;life&quot; they have on the real-life people whose names Oates uses  or suggests. Yet she wants to separate herself from &quot;biography.&quot;   Then why not invent names? If this is a &quot;masterpiece,&quot; every  issue of the Enquirer contains at least one, but not quite as salacious or  as clumsily written. I finished it because I kept thinking it might start  making sense (much of it doesn't), but after page after page, it remains  the same, and I started wondering what Oates would think if someone wrote a  novel using her name and attached all kinds of made-up vulgarities--and  then kept reminding, `It's just fiction, just fiction!' Yes, this is a  fictive &quot;Norma Jeane,&quot; but it's admittedly modeled after the real  one (Oates seems to want her novel seen both ways), and Oates has managed  to make Monroe into a boring characater.  Sad to see a writer of her  reputation put out a novel this questionable.	2000-04-19
US	51283859	R14VJ0NQTRE0L0	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	4	9	N	N	Massive disappointment	I had never read a book by Joyce Carol Oates, but I had heard of her, and, now, with the publication of this book, there's been a lot of publicity, so I decided this would be the book to read.  I read it with anticipation.   The anticipation soon waned, and slowly turned to disappointment, until,  into the book, it all changed to embarrassment, as if somebody was asking  you to look into the most intimate parts of another person's life,  violated. I kept reminding myself that this was only a novel, and that that  means fiction, but the name of Marilyn and Norma Jeane kept pulling it back  to her, no matter what.  I couldn't believe how sloppy the writing was, and  I wondered if this could possibly be the writer I've heard praised.  Is  this an exception, something she published to get in on the Marilyn  bandwagon? (Poor Marilyn!  The book made me feel sorry for her.)  Another  matter:  Two gay characters, main characters, are portrayed as being mean,  cruel, instrumental in Marilyn's despair before her death.  Why did Oates  invent them and give them such a horrible role?  There weren't two such  people in Marilyn's real life.  There's also a grotesque drag-queen who  does a vile erotic imitation that wouldn't even be possible at the time of  Oates' novel. Does Oates have a problem here?  Marilyn has a lot of gay  fans.  Oates has a right to express her views, certainly.  Still, this is a  really crass novel that offends both its subject (even if only a  &quot;character&quot; named Norma Jeane) and the reader.	2000-04-16
US	51283859	RFENPDS5O3N1U	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Massive disappointment	I had never read a book by Joyce Carol Oates, but I had heard of her, and, now, with the publication of this book, there's been a lot of publicity, so I decided this would be the book to read.  I read it with anticipation.   The anticipation soon waned, and slowly turned to disappointment, until,  into the book, it all changed to embarrassment, as if somebody was asking  you to look into the most intimate parts of another person's life,  violated. I kept reminding myself that this was only a novel, and that that  means fiction, but the name of Marilyn and Norma Jeane kept pulling it back  to her, no matter what.  I couldn't believe how sloppy the writing was, and  I wondered if this could possibly be the writer I've heard praised.  Is  this an exception, something she published to get in on the Marilyn  bandwagon? (Poor Marilyn!  The book made me feel sorry for her.)  Another  matter:  Two gay characters, main characters, are portrayed as being mean,  cruel, instrumental in Marilyn's despair before her death.  Why did Oates  invent them and give them such a horrible role?  There weren't two such  people in Marilyn's real life.  There's also a grotesque drag-queen who  does a vile erotic imitation that wouldn't even be possible at the time of  Oates' novel. Does Oates have a problem here?  Marilyn has a lot of gay  fans.  Oates has a right to express her views, certainly.  Still, this is a  really crass novel that offends both its subject (even if only a  &quot;character&quot; named Norma Jeane) and the reader.	2000-04-16
US	51283859	RD3ISNOZCV2H1	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	26	35	N	N	Embarrassing performance	It seems that Joyce Carol Oates wants it both ways--to have her readers believe (as per her interviews)that Norma Jeane actually guided her hand while she was writing this book (really odd!), and at the same time thwart  criticism for irresponsibly trashing the great star's life by claiming that  it's &quot;just fiction.&quot;  To say that Marilyn Monroe would admire  this fictive rendition of her life is absurd. Who would like to have thrown  at them all the erotic humiliations that Oates imagines for Monroe?  Beyond  all that, some wonderful writing might justify her approach, but this is  writing at its worst, as the Kirkus reviewer noted (&quot;one of the worst  novels ever written&quot;), it is a truly badly written novel.  Did Oates  bother to read it over after she'd finished it?  There are pages and pages  here that read like a rough first draft.  The book is loaded with Symbols,  not well delineated characters; and all the typographical quirkiness  annoys, as do the terrible poems that Oates attributes to her character of  Norma Jeane. All of this amounts to a trashy performance that will  certainly not serve the author's reputation well. It's an endless book,  too, and I kept reading only because I wanted to see how bad it could  remain, and the ending sustained the level of the rest--pages and pages of  messy exploitation.	2000-04-13
US	51283859	RZEUKY2Q0UHNQ	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	23	28	N	N	A reckless, extreme exercise	I read in an interview with her that J.C.Oates claims that during the writing of this novel, she came to know what it was like to be Norma Jeane, and felt Norma Jeane's hands guiding her to write this novel. Not only is  that very strange, but it is certainly extreme, to blame Norma Jeane for  writing this really scurrilous novel about herself.  Yes, it's a novel, and  not to be taken as biography; but Oates uses Monroe's name and plays coy  with other real people in her life (the Playwright, etc.)  How would she  respond if a similar novel appeared using her name, and exporing,  judgementally, the most intimate aspects of her life?  Aside from all that,  if the novel were a masterful literary creation, as her abusive fans keep  claiming it is, insulting anyone who thinks otherwise, then all could be  tolerated. But it isn't even a good novel; some of the prose reads like a  first draft, not even read through by the author after she typed it,  repetivie and convoluted. There are good passages throughout, but they're  smothered in verbiage, pseudo-lyric passages that are undecipherable,  especially those attributed to a contrived &quot;Actor's Manual.&quot; As  to the content:  The obsessive references to Monroe's odors (or those of  the character Oates names Norma-Jeane/Marilyn-Monroe), her bodily  functions, the constant sexual denigration of her--all signal a somewhat  vengeful detestation of her own protagonist, not the claimed compassion.   Certainly Norma Jeane would not have encouraged J.C.Oates to write those  passages (invented though they are) while using her name.  What remains is  what others have indicated, and exposed themselves to attack for pointing  out, that the name of Marilyn Monroe sells. The whole matter of invasion of  another's life in such a reckless, hostile manner (fictionalized or not,  but using an actual name) is sad, really sad.	2000-04-10
US	51283859	R1YXGNGDIPFRYK	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	10	20	N	N	Sheer, pretentious exploitation of Marilyn	Marilyn Monroe doesn't deserve this kind of abuse, all kinds of Oatesian fantasies heaped on her recklessly.  Those who are calling this the best novel about the great Marilyn haven't read anything about the movie star;  and clearly they know as much about Hollywood as Oates does(not).  As to  Oates' being a &quot;great writer,&quot; much of what she writes here is  just messy. There are sentences that are downright impossible to untangle,  and I'm not talking about &quot;experimental writing.&quot;  I'm just  talking about good writing.  The only humor in this novel is accidental,  when Oates, in her rush to finish and go on to her next five books, jumbles  up sentences clumsily. The worst part of the book, though, is her  pretending to tell some of it in the voice of Norma Jeane, and giving her  projected self-hatreds and hangups.  The only hope is that this book will  put an end to the pillaging that is going on now of Marilyn Monroe's life.   Enough is enough, and J.C. Oates has already gone too far.  A great book?   A trashy book, clumsily written, and entirely pretentious in its  exploitations.	2000-04-05
US	51283859	R1DIXT1OPZOU27	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;Very Nearly Great Novel&quot;	I hadn't read about this novel and was surprised by that, since I'm a fan of the author's novels.  Then I read a review in &quot;Salon&quot; saying that this novel &quot;very nearly toauches greatness.&quot;  The reviewer  compared it to the work of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, another favorite of  mine.  So I read the novel, and it is truly a fantastic work.  Into one day  in the lives of several men, and a handful of women, Rechy has put in whole  lifetimes, the characters perceived sharply through everything they do that  one day of hot winds and fires in Los Angeles.  Rechy is a master of  atmosphere.  He uses the wind and the fires to create a sense of something  ominous approaching--like the night.  You know that all his disparate  characters are going to come together, somehow; and you try to anticipate  how.  That he is able to inject so much humor into this novel is  surprising--the director directing in drag is a howl, and the priest in  search of a hustler with a certain tattoo is the picture of obsession.  The  book is very sexually graphic, never offensive, because Rechy's aim is to  recreate the time right before AIDS--&quot;the coming of the night.&quot;   The ending chapter is a masterpiece.  I guess the reason the novel wasn't  widely reviewed is that it is so powerful; but I know I'll never forget it  and will read it again very soon.  Rechy has undone himself with this one.	2000-04-01
US	51283859	R1YBYDJZS19OAB	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	1	10	19	N	N	Shameless, boring, exploitive novel	It seems that everyday there's someone trying to edge in on the great movie star's fame. This time it's Joyce Carol Oates with possibly the trashiest, most vulgar novel of the millenium.  It's largely told from the  POV of Norma Jeane, who became Marilyn Monroe. Oates imagines ugly, lurid  details based on nothing more than her heated imagination.  Anyone familiar  with the real, moving story of Marilyn Monroe will recognize immediately  that Oates did skimpy research. It's impossible even to give a hint of what  Oates attributes to the most private aspects of the great Marilyn Monroe's  life--details about odors and sexual indignities (all heaped on her by  Oates). The book is pretentious, too, with quotes from real and invented  writers, quotes that make no sense at all--and repetition, pages and pages  of sloppy writing, sentences that don't end, as if Oates can't wait to go  on to her next novel.  She even takes swipes at Brando, one of Marilyn's  most devoted friends.  She imagines him insulting her with unprintable  words; Oates even derides him for becoming fat.  This is a shameful,  shameless book pretending to be literary. Oates should be ashamed of  herself for this ugly violation of Marilyn Monroe.  This book is dirty,  pretentious, badly written, and heartless.	2000-03-31
US	51283859	R75PGXUJAOIXC	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great reading, great writing	No one can match Rechy in taking us along on a journey of discovery, and this new novel sweeps us into the lives of about a dozen or so men and a few women throughout one single hot day in Los Angeles.  Rechy captures the  eerie sexual mood of the city when the Santa Ana winds are blowing, and  distant fires are blazing, just as he captures the lives of his characters,  focusing on the moment they wake or appear in the City.  They all come to  life, Jesse &quot;the kid&quot; and Chas the strange biker--and the  obsessed priest, so many others; they stayed in my mind, and I didn't  intend to read the book in one sitting but I did, couldn't put it  down--it's that kind of book.  Very sexual, yes, and beautifully, even  poetically written.  No one does this better than Rechy.	2000-03-05
US	51283859	RX6MPOCCWOQAN	0275960501	136538616	Growing up with Legends: A Literary Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lively, Informative, Revealing	This is a thoroughly enjoyable book, one that makes you hope it had been longer, especially because some of the people Wright writes about are viewed so briefly, and yet so sharply, that you want more.  The glimpse of  John Rechy is enticing.  In a few lines, Wright captures this unique writer  for those telling moments.  The portraits of Tennessee Williams and others  are sharp and entertaining; and Gavin Lambert!  What a creation he is.   Congratulations, Mr. Wright, for your lively memoir!	2000-02-22
US	51283859	R3MVFST1J3X1JC	0060191457	77769228	Three-Month Fever: The Andrew Cunanan Story	Books	1	2	7	N	N	Appalling audacity	I guess that a high-profile murder puts people into the &quot;public domain&quot; and so anyone can write anything they want about anyone, and I guess this is why books like this get published.  These are real lives, Mr. G.I., and you feel you can roam all over them and conjecture, and get it  all wrong.  I wonder if you ever read one single account about what really  happened in this tragic event. Mr. G.I. apparently thinks he's a satirist,  but finally the satire is on himself, for the bad writing and silliness  throughout this really bad book.	2000-01-26
US	51283859	R10L9E5OB7Z5NJ	1852423366	353945878	Gone Tomorrow (High Risk Books)	Books	1	3	13	N	N	Disgusting, cruel, unfunny book	I guess the author thought his subjects were funny--disabled people, sick people, people dying. If so, he's the only one.  I finished the book only to see if it could get even worse, the writing so sloppy, the characters  tinny, and the situations entirely cruel in their exaggeration.  I couldn't  find one single insight into gay life (or any life) that makes this book  worth keeping, and I didn't.	2000-01-26
US	51283859	R32QTI8YEDRWH1	0385493363	240422152	Resentment: A Comedy	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Bad excuse for a novel	Has this guy Indiana ever even been to Los Angeles?  Did he even read any of the many accounts of the Menendez brothers?  I agree with the guy who said this is a cruel book.  Indiana feels he can laugh at everyone, the killers, the victims--and the columnist he lays into like he's got  something really personal (envy) going.  What's with this guy, and who is  he to pretend to know so much?  Real serious stuff was involved in this  tragedy, nothing to trivialize and make silly like Indian does.	2000-01-26
US	51283859	R3RDRTPR0O3XG4	1852423242	729155156	Rent Boy (High Risk Books)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	What a dud!	I picked up this book because of the title, and, man, did I go wrong!  If this is the story of a hustler, then I don't know the scene--and I do; this is a book for anyone who doesn't know anything about the scene and wants to read what someone like this guy imagined it to be.  I laughed aloud, but  not where the writer intended.	2000-01-26
US	51283859	R1HVPBQI11H5IV	0060931124	77769228	Three Month Fever: The Andrew Cunanan Story	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Disguised vulgarity	It takes a lot of audacity to concoct a story this vulgar about an actual murder, and to make up heated fantasies involving the protagonists.  Indiana has no sense of place, and his prose is overblown, breathless, as  if he's so eager to pour out his trash that he can't stop to make a good  sentence.  There are many accounts of this murder, notably in Vanity Fair,  that don't exploit and trivialize while posturing at seriousness.  Indiana  seems goaded by one trait:  envy of better writers, like Dominick Dunne,  and envy of glamorous people like Versace.	2000-01-13
US	51283859	RTL64PYMC6A60	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Unforgettable journey	I'm surprised, and really delighted, that a novel about gay characters and gay subjects can still make it to the top of the bestseller lists--it's been a Los Angeles Times Bestseller for several weeks.  But when I read it,  I wasn't surprised.  It's a novel that goes far beyond its subject, becomes  a stunning picture of an era--the 1980's. I don't know of any other book  that has captured more exactly what was happening on the &quot;sex  front&quot; right before &quot;the coming of the night.&quot;  That the  book can be so serious and yet so humorous in places is surprising.  When I  read one of the characters asking another after sex, &quot;Would you die  for sex,&quot; I felt very moved and illuminated, and somewhat terrified.   But it has places of great humor.  The drag-queen Za-Za LaGrande had me  roaring aloud.  Its difficult to describe a novel that is as rich as this  one, and so beautifully written, with a cast of characters that includes  almost every one you'd find on the gay scene, in one day--a bodybuilder, an  older man who loves opera, an S&amp;M-er, a group of punks with their tough  girl, a black guy, a hustler, etc.  One day--that's how long the book  takes.  That one day, though, becomes an epic, and I'm sure that's why so  many readers, gay and straight, are picking it up.  This is Rechy's best  since &quot;City of Night.&quot;	1999-10-09
US	51283859	R3G0M82R12WLEP	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific novel	Wow--that was my reaction after I finished this startling novel.  Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down, it's so vivid that I felt I was a part of the hot night Rechy was leading his characters into.  What a  range of characters--a black cowboy, an insecure muscleman, a cast of porn  stars and their &quot;director,&quot; who is a hilarious drag queen, a  priest in search of a hustler with a tattoo, a menacing gang of thugs, an  older romantic man longing for another time, and the S&amp;M guy pushing  limits--and others.  They come alive.  I know some people are being very  disturbed by this book.  It's because of its power, and Rechy's insistence  on telling the truth, even when it's harsh, and it is, and very  compassionate, too.  The book moves along like a bullet from the first page  to the startling ending that I keep thinking about.	1999-09-20
US	51283859	R1E380ZU72M28H	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful stunner	I picked this book up in a bookstore and started reading it right there, bought it, and couldn't wait to get home to read it all.  It's not a long book, but it isn't a short book, either.  Still, I read it in one sitting;  literally, couldn't put it down.  Once I entered the lives of these many  characters who don't know each other but keep moving into the night, I  couldn't let them go--Jesse &quot;the kid&quot; determined to have the best  sex of his life in one night, and the haunted priest obsessed with a  hustler, the man running away from New York's dark underground, the girl  standing up to a group of punks, the hilarious but terrifying porn  director, and the black cowboy, all of them--well, I had to follow them to  the end, and what an ending.  I'll never forget these characters, it's like  I know them, and I keep remembering them.  This is one hell of a book,  maybe Rechy's best and most daring, and it is very, very daring.	1999-09-12
US	51283859	R2JTYPX6OI1ECJ	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Deserves highest praise.	I just read a real nasty review of this book in an L.A. paper, and the extent of the nastiness made me go out and buy the book, to check out why anyone could become so angry at a book by a very respected writer, Rechy.   I understand now.  It's a powerful book, and it's disturbing.  It makes you  think deeply about things, and if you don't want to think about those  things--like S &amp; M and  a time when life was one endless sex parade--I  guess one way to push it away is to attack it.  The novel re-creates 1981  exactly as I remember it, sex everywhere--and, then, just whispers,  intimations of a &quot;gay illness.&quot;  That's how it happened, and this  book is especially relevant to what is happening today.  Beyond that, its  gallery of characters is unforgettable, and Rechy at the same time that  he's at times brutally honest about his characters is compassionate,  especially toward those who were being thrust out of the world that was  more and more involved only with youth, allowing only the young in some  dance places, bathhouses.  The portrait of the older man Thomas Watkins  almost brought me to tears; and there's a terrific female character, a  gangster's girl, who toughly faces off some punks. The ending leaves you  gasping, it's that powerful--and meaningful.	1999-08-31
US	51283859	R1ANN7BJYELS6N	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific read	This is a novel for everyone, gay or straight, who wants to know what 1981, the dawn of AIDS, was like.  Its varied cast--including a howlingly hilarious drag queen porn director and a man who's fleeing some aspects of  the gay world (read: S&amp;M)--creates a panorama of the times, although  it's set in L.A.  There are memorable scenes, like the one in the NY orgy  room, and the scene at the last, which leaves you stunned.  There's also  the capturing of what a gay cruising bar is like, and it's exactly right.  It's a timely novel, and its at-times graphic view of scenes doesn't keep  it from being surprisingly poetic.  Days after reading it, I can't get the  characters out of my mind, especially young Jesse and the priest obsessed  with finding a hustler with a tattooed cross. This is the kind of book you  want to start reading again right away.	1999-08-25
US	51283859	R1AX4UPB35ADH5	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Essential reading, terrific book	I can't think of a more relevant novel to today, than this novel about &quot;how it was&quot; in 1981 when sex was everywhere.  The author captures that period, makes you feel as if you're there, with all the  excitement and also the dangers on the gay scene.  He captures exactly how  the awareness of &quot;a new gay illness&quot; came into the scene--so  quietly.  The cast of characters is fantastic--from a young guy celebrating  one year of being gay to a priest obsessed with a hustler, to a black  cowboy.  Rechy makes them all believable--funny and sad in turns; and we  end up caring for them even when we wince at some of what they do.  Rechy  has made a terrific &quot;comeback&quot; into the world of his &quot;City  of Night&quot; and &quot;The Sexual Outlaw.&quot;  No one else could have  written as intimately about the world then and made it as relevant to the  world now.  As serious as the novel's intention is, it is also a very, very  hot book.	1999-08-19
US	51283859	RQC3UKJNBFKYX	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vivid startling novel	The person who claimed to find this book &quot;flat and unsurprising&quot; must not have read the vivid, startling novel that I and other readers are reading. Its many characters come to instant life, and the suspense gathers  with every page.  I raced through it, couldn't put it down.  I kept trying  to skip ahead to find out what would happen, but I was too held by the  narrative as it moved on, and I wasn't disappointed at the end.  It's a  startling ending, yes, but at the end you see it all shaping, like the  night.  The writing itself--urgent--keeps pulling you in to see how Jesse  the Kid and the strange priest and the punks and the porn actors and all  the others will come together.  It's surprising that the author can include  so many hilarious passages (the drag queen director, the insecure  muscleman) and still produce such a provocative book, with great poignancy.  This is, in a word, quite a book that lots of people will be talking about,  I bet.	1999-08-14
US	51283859	R2UEULYVF0H97T	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Would you die for sex? Rechy's boldest novel asks.	In his boldest novel to date, Rechy's varied characters seem to ask that question--one of them specifically.  The novel explores the golden age of promiscuity, conveying all its erotic excitement as it occurred in the  defining year of 1981, when &quot;sex was everywhere.&quot;  At the same  time, Rechy makes the reader aware of what the title refers to--&quot;the  coming of the night,&quot; the darkest hours for gay men, the time still to  come.  By turns somber (the scenes in the New York orgy room are extremely  graphic), at times hilarious (you'll roar with laughter in the section  where porn drag-queen director Za-Za La Grande stages a  &quot;rehearsal&quot; for a closeted movie exec).  Rechy is very daring and  unflinching, sharing both the excitement and the ominous overtones of those  times.  The ending is nothing short of stunning.  This is a beautiful and  urgent novel.	1999-08-06
US	51283859	R1C639IJJ3ELBV	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A  sexy , powerful novel,  Rechy has outdone himself.	I could'nt wait to read this novel after I saw the cover story on Rechy in A&amp;U Magazine. Nobody can write about the Gay world like he can and this book made me feel like I was back in the 1980's when sex was everywhere.  Rechy is so compassionate, its like you can feel inside each charactors  mind and soul. Once I started reading this book I couldnt put it down. The  end will make you gasp, it did me.	1999-07-31
US	51283859	R1WUO1KH1CUWWT	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Powerful and timely novel, moving.	Anyone who wants to know what America was like in late 1981, especially the gay world, should read this exceptional novel.  It captures that time exactly, the time when AIDS was just beginning to be whispered about.   Rechy includes a wide cast of characters, that range from a priest to a  black cowboy, so many others, straight and gay.  Some are sad, others are  hilarious, like the drag-queen porn director. Rechy roams from rich homes  to leather bars; and his description of cruising in a gay bar is a  masterpiece, exactly right, funny and sad.  It is also a very erotic novel,  and always serious in its explorations. By the end of the novel, you'll  feel you've lived with all these characters, and you'll be moved by them,  even by Dave, the &quot;tough&quot; leatherman, and especially by Jesse the  Kid, who brings the single day of the novel to a surprising end that won't  leave you. This is a terrific novel, one of Rechy's very best.	1999-07-30
US	51283859	R2P5VM71ZGFRG1	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A stunning, unforgettable and timely novel	Ever since I read &quot;City of Night&quot; in highschool a dozen years ago, I've been waiting for Rechy to write another book like his first classic novel.  &quot;The Coming of the Night&quot; was worth the wait. I  read it through in one sitting.  It's a stunner.  I won't ever forget the  characters Rechy follows for one day and night, when whispers about AIDS  were beginning but not believed.  Rechy brings that very sexual time to  life, and the book is very, very sexy.  Rechy leads you with compassion to  understand what was going on, how AIDS struck gay people with as much  indifference as the heated wind blowing across the city.  The book is  beautifully written, and very pertinent to today. At times, it's  surprisingly hilarious. I laughed aloud at the drag-queen rehearsing her  porn stars for a private performance before a closeted movie executive. The  book races back and forth from character to character, all different, all  alive. I especially like Jesse, the beautiful 22-year-old kid celebrating a  year of being gay; the picture Rechy draws of him is very accurate, very  moving. The ending almost knocked me out.  I sat there, stunned, absorbing  it all.  Frankly, this may be Rechy's best novel, as good as &quot;City of  Night.&quot;	1999-07-18
US	51283859	R2MDQ28A20HDXI	0802130836	921006352	City of Night (Rechy, John)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Literary classic	This novel was on our required reading list in an American lit. course at  Yale.  I had heard it was about male prostitution in the cities of  America--and so I wondered why we were reading it as one of 10 novels  required.  At first I was taken aback by the characters, hustlers, men in  drag, the people who surround them.  Then I was pulled in by the power of  the novel, which soon pushed it far beyond the restrictions of its subject,  far beyond the sexuality, beyond the designation of &quot;gay novel.&quot;   It's a novel about America, and loneliness--and it speaks about identity  not only gay identity, but the discovery of one's self.  The ending, during  Mardi Gras, is unforgettable, and the discoveries about &quot;love&quot;  are challenging and continue to resonate.  Why hasn't there been a great  movie made from this famous novel?	1998-09-13
US	51283859	R52P7CA35BTD1	0140231196	864967142	Live from Golgotha: The Gospel According to Gore Vidal	Books	1	7	17	N	N	Silly, pretentious novel.	While reading this odd book, it's difficult to think of Vidal as a serious  writer.  The writing is sloppy, one cliche after another; and at times it's  incomprehensible, as if he just set it down and didn't even bother to read  his own work.  The idea of a comic novel about Jesus is certainly a good  one; but this is not it.  The book is just plain awful, like a joke someone  tells and gets no laughs but continues to embellish it, and the whole thing  becomes sillier and sillier and still the joker continues on and on.	1998-08-28
US	51283859	R3GEQREMYMVFKM	0520081579	112573129	Blood Cinema: The Reconstruction of National Identity in Spain	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Superb analysis of  the unique power of Spanish cinema.	From the films of such towering directors as Luis Bunuel, Carlos Saura,  Victor Erice, and Pedro Almodovar, Kinder traces influences to the  paintings of Goya and Ribera and the writings of Lorca and Galdos and to  the political events in Spain's turbulent history. Most original are her  explanations of what makes the melodrama and violence in these films  specifically Spanish. It argues convincingly that in order to understand  world cinema, one has to know the history of Spanish film. Illuminating and  engaging, it is a highly readable, and well written exploration of Spanish  art, history, and culture.	1998-08-23
US	51283859	RKKPV96R52QGR	0520077768	985489919	Playing with Power in Movies, Television, and Video Games: From Muppet Babies to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Brilliant exploration of children's media culture.	This highly original analysis of children's interaction with media  combines detailed descriptions of shows like &quot;Muppet Babies&quot; and  &quot;Garfield&quot; with a sophisticated commentary on the global economy.   In an age when most authors writing about children and the media talk only  about violence, this book presents a much more comprehensive account of how  media shape the way children perceive the world. It includes a fascinating  and at times humorous description of her own son's interaction with media  (television, movies, and video games) from infancy to age eight. It  provides the only convincing account of why the &quot;Teenage Mutant Ninja  Turtles were so popular. No wonder &quot;Mother Jones&quot; chose it as one  of a hundred books recommended to President Clinton on his assumption of  the presidency. What is so satisfying about this book is that it is as  entertaining to the layman--a must for parents--as it is to the specialist  in cultural studies.  In clear prose, Kinder makes all her material  entirely accessible, without jargon.	1998-08-23
US	51283859	RBE6KN52RBCK6	0689119844	596676475	Friend of the family	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fine portrait of a  marriage in crisis.	The author explores deeply and with unwavering sympathy a trio of contemporary characters intertwined in a thorouguhly modern situation:  The wife discovers that her charming husband is involved in a relationship with another man and is so affected by it that she explores the possibility of finding a similar fulfillment with a woman.  The events that follow will hold you spellbound.  The author views her characters with deep understanding and compassion.	1998-08-03
US	51283859	R21DIELRHY1DX2	1555833926	146622302	Making It Big: Sex Stars, Porn Films and Me	Books	1	5	16	N	N	A  weird combination of  drag and machos..	It's mindboggling but true:  a silly drag queen--nothing wrong with really great drag either, but this isn't--has become the arbiter of what is masculine!  What a twist, that all the macho gays are now immitating her masculine drag--and there's nothing wrong with macho drag either.  It's just the combination that makes it all so ironic.  Sad, too, that porn stars--who deserve human dignity--often disappear tragically while Ms. LaRue goes on giggling and making money.	1998-07-27
US	51283859	R1U1JAOSWFILIC	0061180009	116693111	Diaries: Volume 1, 1939-1960 (Christopher Isherwood Diaries)	Books	1	3	14	N	N	Malicious, self-serving  account of questionable gossip.	Admirers of Isherwood's novels will be outraged by this venomous assault aimed at many of the people, including writers, who championed the author during his lifetime.  Whether or not intended for publication when written--and it's possible the author himself would be appalled--this posthumous journal does a great disservice to the author, who will now be remembered at least in part for this distorted account.  Much of what is here would be more appropriate in trashy tabloids.  It dishonors the memory of a wonderful stylist.	1998-07-20
