US	51284359	R369WVEVGK7CFF	0446693049	78483112	Master of None	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Misses the Mark	I didn't think that I was going to find the book all that great just from reading the back cover and seeing some of the quotes on it.   <br /> <br />\\"In the bestselling tradition of Margaret Atwood, Ursula K. Le Guin, and Sheri S. Tepper comes a compelling novel of power and gender on a planet ruled exclusively by women.\\" <br /> <br />\\"It's a long time since I've seen an SF novel as centered as this one in the vital debate about gender and power relationships.\\"  Suzy McKee Charnas <br /> <br />A man finds himself stranded on a planet where women are in charge.  He's a second class citizen now.  It's just like our world except backward!  Oh my!  The front cover quotes made it out to be the first refreshing feminist utopia novel in decades!  Decades, I tell you.   <br /> <br />Now, here's my thing: I have not read a lot of science fiction compared to many of the people in this community.  I have not read a lot of feminist fiction, speculative or not, but I plan to read more.  Given my limited experience with this topic, it seems like a bad sign when even I look at the premise and think it's a clich.  I know there have been books that did this role-reversal thing quite some time ago and were really good.  Hell, Steven Barnes' Lion's Blood was pretty much the same premise except the reversal was between whites and blacks.  So, from the outset, I knew I might be in for an eyeroll fest with this book.  But I was hoping that it would rise above the clich premise and be really interesting (not unheard of).  Master of None gets about halfway there. <br /> <br />Okay, so we have the basic premise:  Typical man who acts just like typical men do in the present (even though this is supposed to be the future) finds himself on a planet where women are in charge and act like typical men.  Or something to that effect.  This planet, Vanar, is just about the most powerful planet in the intergalactic community because they control the only means of traveling long distance in space.Anyone can have a ship, but if they want to get from one planet to another in less than a thousand years they have to rely on this weird ship technology that only specially bred and engineered women can operate.  And these women are all Vanar.  This means that every woman on Vanar essentially has a Room of Her Own.  They are a powerhouse, so they get to be as cantankerous and PMS-y as they want. <br /> <br />We follow Nathan as he bumbles his way through this world where men are treated really shabbily and women can have what amounts to a harem and men have very few rights and women really just need to learn to relax and be cool, baby.  It's very much a character-centered novel.  There is a plot, but it's only there to give us a viable reason for following Nathan around as he goes through his character development and the author goes through her worldbuilding.  Some fairly major changes happen in Vanar society because of him, but I suspect only because internal changes are only so interesting to most book readers. <br /> <br />The maddening thing about this book isn't just that it's a standard role-reversal with not much else to recommend it, but that the core message seems to be: women will act just like men (or worse) if they got to run things.  The real solution is to be egalitarian.  I have problems with this.  Firstly, I think the whole argument that if women ran things they would act just like men is bullpucky.  Second, the whole conclusion that egalitarianism is the way to go is an old, old conclusion come to long ago.  N. Lee Wood has now added absolutely zero to the conversation.   <br /> <br />Here's the real kicker:  Vanar is not only a planet run by the womenfolk, but they are dark-skinned womenfolk.  Arabs, maybe, since we have the whole harem thing going on.  Nathan is, you guessed it, a muscular blond white male.  Handsome, too.  Here comes the white man to fix everything yet again.  Only the white man can solve the problems of the dark-skinned society ruled by women.  And he does it, too.  Yay for him. <br /> <br />I might have been able to overlook some of the books flaws if it hadn't been for the boring conclusion + white man commin' in to fix everything bits.  Once I caught on that this book wasn't in any way plot-driven, I was able to relax a little more into it.  I was enjoying the view of this world even though it is a flawed world and the view skewed.  I just kept hoping that the story wasn't going to come to the conclusion that it did.  Somehow I imagined it veering off into the profound suddenly and unexpectedly.  I suppose I was hoping for more. <br /> <br />In the end I feel that Master of None has some very deep flaws.  Not on the sentence level, or even a structural level.  The execution is flawed.  Dare I say that the ideas are also flawed.  The basic premise is, in my opinion, way flawed.  But it is an excellent example of a character-driven book that doesn't need a lot of plot cookies to entice the reader forward.	2005-06-14
US	51284359	R3R9886BU6AKFA	0441011993	531074758	Furies of Calderon (Codex Alera)	Books	3	97	126	N	N	Hits and Misses - mostly hits	Spoilers - just so ya know.  Oh, and snark. <br /> <br />Furies of Calderon is your standard fantasy story.  The novel takes place in a quasi-medieval past time on an alternate Earth or some kind of Earth-like space populated by humans.  Everyone in this world has a Fury, which is some kind of sentient elemental power that attaches itself to a person when they're hitting puberty and allows them to do elemental magic.  The stronger your Fury, the stronger magic stuff you can do.  Some people even have more than one.  <br /> <br />There is a boy protagonist (Tavi), teenaged, who is an outsider (sort of) because he doesn't have a Fury.  He is special in some other way that is hinted at yet never revealed in the book because this is volume 1 of who knows how many and there has to be some way to make you read the next 6 books, right?  Right.  So, he's special and doesn't know it, is considered a freak by some and a pity case by others, wants to leave the \\"homestead\\" and go off to the \\"city\\" to study at the \\"university\\" so he can make something of himself.  And, by gum, his dreams are gonna come true!  (cue Disney music) <br /> <br />And, of course, we have the familiar set of Kings and Queens and Knights and nobles and Homesteaders and serfs and all that jazz.  You'd think that people with such wildly different everyday circumstances from regular humans would find some wildly different way to organize themselves and structure their society.  Nope.  Damn humans, always the same. <br /> <br />To go along with this standard worldview is the standard political intrigue plot.  Some noble somewhere doesn't like how the King runs things.  He thinks he can do things better.  He gathers up his forces - folks with strong furies, another noble or two, one of the King's own best Cursors (spies), and all the dark-skinned savages you can shake a stick at - and starts plotting to take over the kingdom.  <br /> <br />Luckily, the king has a good subject in Amara, a Cursor just out of training.  She knows all about the plot and has the mad skills to escape her teacher (a dirty traitor!) and the noble's best knights to warn the King and save the kingdom.  But first she has to run into Tavi, entwine his plot with hers, fall in love with Tavi's widowed uncle, and participate in the Battle at Helm's Deep.  You heard me. <br /> <br />==The savages are coming!  Let's go to this heavily fortified garrison and fight them.  Yay, we beat some of them!  This will be easy.  Oh crap, there are now a million billion of them out there and only a few hundred of us.  We are screwed.  And there is no escape.  No hope.  No light.  Oop, here comes Gandalf with the Rohirim - I mean Tavi with some other group of savages to turn the tide of battle and allow us to win the day.== <br /> <br />Along the way some other stuff happens.  The small-time bad guy (tm) rapes a minor character who is slutty and therefore deserves it, but not the major one who is not slutty, (a virgin, in fact) therefore we know he cannot touch her.  He comes to a bad end, as we all know he will, because someone has to and neither the traitor Cursor nor the noble with aspirations will in this book because, drumroll please, it's Book 1 of.  There's also some crap about noble savages and Tavi getting soul bonded to a girl who is so feisty that she will either end up being a Strong Woman (tm) or a banal piece of plot furniture in subsequent books. <br /> <br />Another minor nit - names.  Too many damned same enough sounding/spelled names to drive me to distraction. <br /> <br />My last issue with this book is about how much stuff is described in painfully specific detail.  There is so much detail that I couldn't really get a good image of what stuff looked like in my head  --  if that makes any sense (and it might not).  I felt bogged down in a lot of irrelevant detail, thus clouding my mental image.  The description spilled over into the ridiculous when, in an early scene, Tavi is in the wilderness, being chased by a savage and his pet Big Bird, during a storm in which wild furies try to rend one into tiny pieces, and freaking out because his uncle might be dead.  He finds Amara in the middle of all this and takes the time to notice the following:  Her skin color, her 'generous mouth' (can we call a moratorium on this phrase, please?), the condition of her hair, her build, her striking features, the fact that she is not precisely lovely, her cheekbones, the shape of her nose, what she is wearing down to the item and the state of her clothing.   <br /> <br />I'm sorry, no.  <br /> <br />There were other moments like this in the book.  Moments where the author decided to tell us some stuff despite the fact that the character whose view we are currently dealing with would not notice or think about or comment mentally on.  This is the evil of third person limited - at least the way it is currently used.  I can't totally blame Butcher for it, but I can be all snarky about it for a minute here. <br /> <br />Speaking of snarky, I am being overly so, I suppose.  The truth is that, despite these many flaws, I enjoyed the book.  I'll probably even read the next one.  I have to find out what happens to Tavi and his uncle and aunt and Amara and the King and whoever the heck else.  There were unanswered questions!  Can't have that.  <br /> <br />What is interesting and frustrating about this book is that it is a prime example of how it's not about what a book does wrong, but about what a book does right that matters.  Enough is done right here that it overpowers the wrong.  But damn, you'd think that someone who could create so much right could turn down the wrong just a wee bit more. <br /> <br />What does the book do right, you ask?  In broad strokes, the story is pretty engaging, even with its clich bits.  The writing, despite the overload of pointless description, is good.  The characters are interesting for the most part.  I found myself really caring for them.  Tavi islikeable, which he really needs to be.  Amara is deal-with-able.  Even the uncle is kind of cool.  If I had to say what one thing makes this book worth reading, it would be the characters.  They save the book completely. <br /> <br />So those are my thoughts on Furies of Calderon.  I think Book 2 is out now, so I might try to get it through the library.  Hopefully it will also do more right things than wrong things.	2005-06-13
US	51284359	R1L5ZHA3GMG453	0446530921	586858301	1: Prince of Ayodhya - Book One: The Ramayana	Books	2	5	11	N	N	an American reader's reaction	I couldn't really get in to this book.  The pacing is off at the beginning, I think, and the first 6 chapters were all set-up.  Possibly more.  It seems to me that the opening of a book is not something a reader should have to &quot;get through&quot; in order to enjoy the rest.  As a famous author once said - if your characters are thin, they're thin *now*; if your plot is weak, it's weak *now*.  Nothing in the next chapter or section is going to fix that.<br />After reading several of the reviews here, I can see this book has started some heated discussions.  Can't imagine what has been going on in actual book discussions and message boards, yikes!  But let me say that when I picked up this book I was never in any doubt as to what it was - a piece of fiction based on an ancient Indian tale.  From the jacket description (which a person should read no matter what it may say on the front cover - if you only go by what's on the front cover when deciding to buy a book, you're going to be dissapointed a lot) I gleaned that this was going to be a fantasy story, somewhat like LOTR, but probably closer to the kinds of fairy tale and myth retellings where the larger than life characters are givien full treatment, fleshed out, and made three-dimensional.  So, on that front, I wasn't really dissapointed.  I could see that happenening as I read.  I wasn't expecting a poetic translation of the Ramayana in English.<br />The problem, for me, came in having to slog through the endless character introductions and the slow crawl to the main story.  You know.. the plot.  This endless introduction of characters may have been seen as necessary for people who know the original Ramayana - to show them how the author intended to portray them in this book.  I suppose that's fine.  If I knew the original work, or if this were based on some epic I was more familiar with, I might have sat still for something like this.  Because that aspect would have interested me.  But, being a reader who does not know this story already, I just found it rather tedious.  If I am not the audience for the book, that's okay, too.  But I got the impression that the author wanted to reach a wider audience of not only people familiar with the epic but also fantasy readers in general.  If so, then I don't think the book succeeds.  Perhaps I am just too impatient, though.<br />There are too many characters introduced in the first 8 chapters or so.  Too many and too few I care about.  I could have cared about the Prince from the opening scene more if he hadn't dissapeared right away.  I don't *know* any of these people, and that is essential to caring about them, I think.  There is just too much telling.<br />As to the prose - well, it's kind of stiff.  I wondered, though, if that wasn't a cultural thing.  Or a translation thing.  Or maybe the author just doesn't have an ear for poetry.  As I said, I wasn't expecting a poem, but the world itself seemed to call out for a poetic sensibility.  Prose that flows like water.  This prose does not.<br />Had I gone further, I might have been able to really get in to this book.  But I have a rule about novels.  I only give the author 6 - 10 chapters to hook me.  If I am not hooked by then, I stop.  Mainly because I have so many books I want to read that I can't waste time with the ones that don't really wow me.	2003-11-26
US	51284359	R3KUWRYVIEK24M	0765304198	599134250	Stories of Your Life & Others	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Chiang's rep is well-deserved, but many stories I didn't dig	For years I've been hearing wonderful things about this fantastic writer named Ted Chiang.  Ted, the wunderkind whose first published story won a Nebula (accepted before he went to Clarion, even!) who keeps winning awards and is known by all and has the audacity to not write very many stories and not one novel.  So, it was with some sense of anticipation that I picked up his first short story collection.  I had heard of many of the stories in it--Tower of Babylon, Hell is the Absence of God, Story of Your Life--and was determined to like them.<br />Oddly, my reaction was mixed.<br />Part of this collection pleased me to no end; part of it elicited no more than a 'meh'.  Why the mix?  I'm not sure.  The first three selections did not thrill me.  I think that I felt as though the stories were high on the idea axis, but low on the other axes.  In fact, when I finished reading Babylon I felt kind of cheated, as it seemed to me a long set-up for a punchline-type ending.<br />But then I read Story of Your Life and everything changed.  Oh, how I loved that story.  This is where I felt Chiang really got it right.  The idea and the characters and the plot and the everything in perfect harmony.  I also felt this way about Hell is the Absence of God and Liking What You See: A Documentary (even though this is, apparently, not one of Ted's favorite stories).  With these three I saw all the marks of really great talent and storytelling.<br />Seventy-Two Letters and The Evolution of Science didn't hold any big fascination for me, but didn't produce the same disappointment as the first three I read did.<br />Chiang's reputation is well-deserved.  These are fine stories, and good examples of what they are.  Even the ones that I didn't like still had an energy to them that I can't help but admire.  And they all had a quality of intelligence that is missing from so much fiction I read.  Not talking down to an audience, but instead bringing them up a level or two.  <br />This book is definitely recommended.	2003-11-21
US	51284359	R3ODCKVVQ88E4S	0553583425	461412970	Hidden Warrior (Tamir Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	5	35	N	N	Not much impressed	I got this book for free at a convention and, upon reading the back description, thought it would be very interesting to read about a boy who has to come to terms with the fact that she's a girl in a fantasy/warrior setting.  Perhaps this book does that well, I never stuck around to find out.<br />A reviewer for The Bone Doll's Twin commented on the fact that nowhere on the book did it say that it was Book 1 of a trilogy.  So, he expected to read a full book and got only part one.  This book suffers from a similar lack.  I don't usually read the inside cover a book, it's just reviews and such.  That is the ONLY place I could find that mentioned this might not be a stand-alone book.  Thus, when I started reading and all the action was in media res, I thought the author was crazy.<br />I read six chapters before finally giving up and putting it down.  This book starts off right where the last book leaves off, apparently, with only a few little flashbacks to connect them.  Thus, I thought that there had been some terrible mistake and I was missing the first three chapters of the novel somehow.  It wasn't until coming here to Amazon.com that I discovered it was Book 2.  Then things started making sense.<br />This isn't likely to be a book that one can just pick up and read without having read the first.  That's fine, I suppose, but if it's going to be that way, the publisher should make it a lot clearer that this is part of a 3 book thing.  I get the feeling that they're trying to trick readers into buying the books.  I could be wrong.<br />In any case, I won't be finishing it.  I have no desire to read the Bone Doll's Twin, especially given some of the reviews of it.	2003-11-21
US	51284359	RV5OI9NMZNG63	014230218X	390872528	The Dreaming Place	Books	3	5	7	N	N	My opinion:  Meh	The Dreaming Place is a YA urban fantasy novel about two cousins, sixteen year old girls, who get tangled up in a magical tug-of-war with a Native American spirit of winter.  The story is a sweet one, but I felt just a little too heavy-handed with the moral.  It did touch me in some spots, but in others I felt it was being too obvious.<br />The main characters, Nina and Ash, are so typical they verge on being stereotypes.  The book ends up being Caitlin's Way crossed with Sabrina the Teenaged Witch...  <br />I ended up liking Ash more than Nina mainly because I could identify with her pain (she lost her mother).  And because, despite her predictability, she showed more personality than her cousin.  I kept being annoyed by the book because Nina was acting rather vapid and whiny through most of it, and I could feel the author's preference for her on every page.  <br />De Lint, I think, thought more people (or kids) would identify with Nina, who is smart and thinks math is interesting and worries about boys and complexions and reads Sassy magazine.  Ash is the bad one--the girl who skips class and doesn't care about things, and walls off her emotions, and can't deal with the world.  But Ash, who often sits in the park and has actual conversations with homeless people (oh my!) is a far more complex character in my view.  She has bravery and skill as well as brains.  This all comes into play when the conflict rears its ugly head, but the end message seems to be \\"Only when Ash learns that it's better to be more like her cousin than like herself can she save the day and be happy.\\"  I'm not down with that.<br />The idea for this book is a good one.  But I think length worked against de Lint in that some areas of the otherworld and Nina's personal power (not to mention Ash's) and what forces led to this confrontation were not as fleshed out as they could have been.  This felt like it should have been a longer book but just... wasn't.<br />The secondary characters need a lotof help themselves.  Nina's parents are doing well in their roles until the end, where they come face to face with the weirdness going on in their daughter and niece's lives.  However, at that point they become highly unbelievable and one wonders if things might have gone better had they not ever gotten involved.  Better for the reader, anyway, not to have to deal with the thin or unbelievable characterization going on.  <br />The most interesting person in the book is a secondary character:  Cassie.  At one point Ash realizes that she doesn't know much about this woman she calls friend and regrets it.  I regret it, too, because I'm far more interested in her role in this and her past than I am in anyone else in the book.  <br />Once we get beyond Ash and Nina, everyone else starts to take on the veneer of Plot Device.<br />There is a lot of bandying about with different kinds of magic and belief systems.  Native American shamans (or, juju men...) hanging out with women who deal magical tarot cards.  Then there is the Dreaming Place itself, which is supposed to be faerie or the dreamtime or any quasi-magical not the real world place in mythology.  But it's mostly populated by Native American spirits and creatures.  There's also something about a Cornish spirit that didn't come through clear to me.  <br />Basically, de Lint is trying to weave several different systems here to create a mysterious, yet coherent, whole.  It's not quite working, in my opinion.<br />Despite all my grousing, I enjoyed most of the book.  It wasn't until the end that things started falling apart and losing steam.  The premise is good, the execution not so.  A good read for the Tween set, as it isn't truly bad, and may teach them a thing or two.	2003-11-19
US	51284359	R2OX64NPMWR2LM	0142302236	276531870	The Riddle of the Wren	Books	2	5	7	N	N	I didn't make it past chapter 5	Apparently, this is one of de Lint's earliest books and BOY does it show.  I read The Dreaming Place and thought it was okay, so decided to try the other de Lint YA I had lying around.  First of all, it's the same basic story as The Dreaming Place.  In the back of the book de Lint admits he wrote the same story over and over again for a while.  I must concur.  And even though The Dreaming Place had it's bad moments, they weren't all crowded in front like in Wren.<br />The book opens in some sort of vaguely English/European small town in the vague past.  Sometime after the middle ages, perhaps.  But I cannot tell.  The clumsy way de Lint introduces characters and sets up the conflict aren't really indicative of his later talents.  And he has issues with how to use secondary characters effectively.<br />This is very clearly an early novel.  I'm sure some kids will get some enjoyment out of it, but anyone over 16 or so should probably just move on to de Lint's later, adult novels.	2003-11-19
US	51284359	R2GHUUL6H674OU	1573222615	247551392	The Art of Happiness at Work	Books	1	4	8	N	N	I agree, it's a Chicken Soup for the Buddist Soul, but bad	This book is worse than the first one.  The first Art of Happiness wasn't bad, but it wasn't great, either.  This one takes the concept - trying to use the Dalai Lama's teachings to create some kind of self-help system - one step too far into hokiness.  It's drivel, really.  If you're interested in the teachings of HH the DL, then read the books actually written by him.  Or just go read some Buddhist texts.  This book is a waste of time.	2003-10-30
US	51284359	R3O28KQBWLK950	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	3	7	10	N	N	It's not as bad as all that	It is true that this book is a little misleading.  When I bought it I thought that it was writtem by the Lama and this Cutler person was his translator or something.  Indeed not.  <br />Cutler can be heavy-handed at times, true, but a great deal of this book is the Dalai Lama's own words.  Cutler just spends a lot of time trying to get it to fit into his own weird pop-psychology way of thinking.  Thus, the book is interesting, but not as great as it could be.  <br />Read the book if you're interested in the concept.  But if you want to read the Dalai Lama's own words and nothing else, pick up another of his books.  I think he has at least one that's all him.  <br />Oh, and if I were you, I would run away from the new book, The Art of Happiness at Work.  Cutler is fast turning the Dalai Lama into the chicken soup for the soul of Buddhism.<br />(and to the crazy christian weirdo... get a life, hun)	2003-10-30
US	51284359	RY5AQHW22Q2WV	0446610771	676153144	Warchild	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Character, structure, emotion are Lowachee's strong points	Let me start off by saying two things:  1 - I'm not a big fan of hard SF or military SF.  They've never been my speed, though I have read a few.  2 - Karin Lowachee is a friend of mine.  Ordinarily, I would not have picked Warchild off the shelf simply because it just doesn't look like my type of book.  But since Karin is a friend of mine (and also since so many of my friends have read it and said it was wonderful) I decided to at least try the book.  The result was that I loved it.<br />I was drawn in by the smooth writing and by the unusual choice of second person in the opening section.  What kept me reading was the excellent characterization.  Characters and emotional depth are Karin's strong suits.  They are what make this book sing.<br />I was surprised at how well the structure of the book worked.  As I said, it starts out in second person.  The very last line of the first section is in first person, the voice of Jos Musey, the protagonist.  The change in tone and maturity that line encompasses is amazing.  It is a solid punch to end the section and prepares us for the person we're going to get to know in the middle of the book.  The mid sections are in first person past tense, then in the last section she switches again to first person present tense.  But the switch feels entirely natural and matches the shift in mood and action we get with the last section.  In some places she slips in and out of second person present, highlighting Jos's state of mind.  So many writers use POV and tense incorrectly.  To see it not only being used well, but used to enhance more than one aspect of the story, gave me real pleasure as a reader.<br />As I said, character is Karin's strong point.  Caring about Jos wasn't hard at all.  Watching him go through life and grow up, I felt a real connection to him and to the characters he encountered.  His relationship with Niko inspired some of the most powerful writing in the book.<br />I didn't particularly enjoy the training and battle aspects of the book.  But, again, I'm not into military SF.<br />The ending also left me feeling incomplete.  The relationship between Niko and Jos isn't as resolved as I thought it would be, and I felt as though the book wasn't quite complete.  The denouement, perhaps, was too short.  Or maybe it's due to the fact that there are two other books in this world, though they may not be strictly sequels.<br />I recommend this book to all SF fans, even if hard/military SF isn't your thing.  The story here is so strong it would pull even the most reluctant reader along.  Now I have to go out and buy Burndive.	2003-10-29
US	51284359	R1BVJJ7FGXNI6Q	0898799058	602023351	Elements of Fiction Writing - Beginnings, Middles & Ends	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Nancy Kress Rocks	Nancy Kress is an excellent teacher.  I was one of her students at Clarion.  But for writers who can't benefit from her teaching in person, they can read this book.  I've been using it in my writing classes for two semesters and I love it.  <br />Not only does she explain concepts clearly and concisely, but she has an excellent feel for presenting this information to the beginning writer without confusing or talking down to them.  Reading this book will probably put any beginning writer ahead of the game (as long as they incorporate what they learn into their own writing).  <br />She gets into the mechanics of why stories and novels work (and don't) and how to make your own do the same.  Buy this book, it's really worth it.	2003-10-20
US	51284359	R3NPHUTY4EXQVI	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There is no magic formula	If you're thinking of buying this book to try to figure out the magic formula for how to become a writer like Stephen King then, sorry, you are out of luck.  For one thing, there is no magic formula, so stop looking.  <br />One reviewer complains that King doesn't reveal exactly how he comes up with his stories and how he goes about writing them.  that reviewer either didn't read the book, didn't read the book well, or is completely dense.  King talks about those things exactly!  He doesn't detail it for every book and story he's ever written, but all the answers are right there.  <br />If you want to be a writer, then you're going to have to realize that there is no pat, easy answer to &quot;Where DO you get your ideas?&quot; except maybe &quot;From my head, you dolt.&quot;  <br />I think only people who are meant to be writers will fully understand what king has in that last section, On Writing.  But perhaps the rest of you will enjoy the autobioggraphical parts.  I certainly did.	2003-10-20
US	51284359	REQA4UOS2T9MA	0062720066	667612113	What If? Writing Exercises for Fiction Writers	Books	2	19	29	N	N	Not for advanced writers	I bought this book hoping to find some new exercises that would help me expand my skills.  But I found most of them too basic for my tastes.  This book might be good for people who are just learning to flex their writing muscle.  But for anyone who has been writing for a few years, don't bother.	2003-10-20
US	51284359	R37Y598T5O6Y39	0898798159	508136701	Dynamic Characters: How to Create Personalities That Keep Readers Captivated	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The most thorough book about character	There are a certain number of people out there who object to the &quot;list method&quot; of creating a character.  And on some points I agree with them.  You cannot make a character just by figuring out what they like for breakfast and listing what they do all day.  However, far too many beginning writers forget to think of their characters as people who do eat breakfast and pee and grew up somewhere and have fears that have nothing to do with the plot.  <br />This books encourages writers to think about all aspects of character and helps them to think about them in fuller, more realized ways.  <br />I use this book when teaching writing and my students really enjoy it.  It helps not only before you begin writing a story or novel, but in the revision process as well.	2003-10-20
US	51284359	R3G5QMRQATU9NB	0446526681	958613694	Lion's Blood: A Novel of Slavery and Freedom in an Alternate America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Richly realized alternate history	Lion's Blood is an alternate history novel taking place in (what would be) the 1800's in America. Except this is an America colonized by Africans who, after Hannibal's defeat of Rome, went on to become the major economic force in the West instead of Europe. Specifically, the novel is about a young Irish boy, Aidan, and the son of the man who owns him, Kai.<br />Barnes obviously did a lot of work when he created this world--the history, cultures, even music. It all shows. The world is richly textured and well-realized. And that's just the backdrop. I appreciated the depth in which he thought this all out, and found myself feel proud of the alternate history he conceived for Africans. But I also appreciated that the concept was well thought out and didn't fall into making the argument that if black people ran the world it would somehow be a better, happy place. It's different, of course, but it isn't an un-thought out bash of European culture.<br />This background adds to an excellently crafted story. We see the world through the eyes of the slaves and the slavers. And each character is well realized and multifaceted. No one ever falls into clichéd categories of 'purely evil' or 'purely good'. The emotional bond between Aidan and Kai holds the story together with ease. At each turn I felt deeply for both of them and identified with their struggles and conflicts. It wasn't hard for me to slip into the world of the story or into the heads of the people who inhabited it.<br />This is a must read for people who enjoy speculative fiction and alternate history in particular. But I am also going to recommend it to anyone who enjoys fiction dealing with African-American issues, SF fans or not. I think this book could end up being as important as Octavia Butler's Kindred.<br />If you plan on reading Lion's Blood, I also recommend Heather Alexander's CD Insh'Allah, The Music of &quot;Lion's Blood.&quot; The music is beautiful on its own, but in combination with the book it will have deeper meaning.	2003-10-19
US	51284359	RFRS7F1QPWLYI	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Story and Worldbuilding are excellent, Character not so.	My first reaction to the book was that I liked it.  I knew a little about the plot beforehand from seeing snippets of the movie and hearing other people talk.  But the story genuinely drew me in.  I wanted to finish the book; I wanted to know what would happen, how things would turn out.  On the level of Story, this book works extremely well.<br />The Setting is also intriguing.  Though this book teeters dangerously toward the worldbuilding trap/no-no of having a whole planet with one ecology, Herbert isn't quite so amateurish about it.  Dune is not all desert, just varying degrees of desert, and has a well-imagined ecology.  I'm sure the concept is expanded upon in the later Dune books.  Story and worldbuilding worked fine for me.<br />It's when we get to character that I start to have problems.  The main character, Paul Muad'dib, is interesting, yes, but I felt no connection to him.  As I said, I was interested in the story, and only vaguely interested in what might happen to the characters.  I don't feel for them or with them.  <br />This could be the product of the point of view Herbert employed.  He uses omnipotent third, often changing viewpoints with each paragraph.  I didn't find this particularly distracting, but I wondered if I might have felt more connection to any of the characters if I'd been allowed to spend more than a few moments at a time in their heads.  But, perhaps not, because he sometimes spends an entire scene in one person's head, and yet I still didn't feel a connection.<br />I rather disliked most of the characters as people.  They did feel like real people to me, so I'm not questioning Herbert's characterization skills.  And characters do not always have to be likeable.  I would have liked them to be likeable, though.  It might have added another dimension to my enjoyment of the story.  I was interested in what was going on, but not to whom.  <br />Herbert's authorial voice was so strong, I don't think I ever completely immersed myself inthis world.  I felt that he might have had a quirky disdain for women from the way he characterized Jessica and the way Paul related to her.  I also had mixed feelings about the Harkonnen Baron guy being evil and liking to rape young boys.  It just felt a tad overdone to me.  And offensive.<br />My final call:  High marks for Story, Setting, and Prose.  Midgrade marks for Character.	2003-09-26
US	51284359	R1REKY66CUB65Z	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Le Guin is TOTALLY a Science Fiction Writer!	Before I get to the main part of my review, I'd just like to point out that the reviewer who claimed that LeGuin is not an SF writer is dead wrong on many, many levels.  Beginning with what he thinks \\"sci-fi\\" is.  It's not all weird aliens and space battles.  In fact, most good SF (not 'sci-fi', an important distinction) is about ideas and explorations and What-if questions. <br />In this way, Le Guin is one of the greatest SF writers of all time.  And she's shelved with the SF writers because she's published by an SF publisher and has, on many, many occasions, said that she is indeed an SF writer.  She also writes fantasy.  If you asked her, she would tell you she does write SF and to think otherwise is to misunderstand her work and the genre of Science Fiction as a whole.<br />Now, on to my review:<br />This is the first book of Ursula K. Le Guin's that I have read.  I decided to start with the classics and work my way up to her newer stuff.  Now I understand why this is a classic work of science fiction.  It is truly wonderful.<br />In the beginning, I wasn't really drawn in.  I felt a little out of place, untethered, for the first chapter or so.  I knew what the book was about, vaguely, and so had a little outside grounding.  The second chapter, which is a folk tale (or oral history, however you want to look at it) from the world of Gethen, or Winter, piqued my interest more than the first chapter.  <br />It wasn't until chapter three, when one of the main characters, Mr. Ai, has his audience with the King, that I felt the pull of the story on me.  After that, I was hooked.  I had sunk down into the world Le Guin created and it took much to pull me out again.<br />Mr. Ai I found to be a maddening character, and as we are seeing things from his point of view for most of the beginning, I really felt that I was getting to know him.  The characterization is excellent, obviously, because I found Ai maddening, but only in the way that characters who feel very real canbe.  His misunderstanding with the book's other main character, Estraven, is interesting because it is Ai's failure to understand people differently gendered from him (be it women in his own culture, or the fluid-gendered people on Gethen) is one of the central themes in the book.  I want to beat him over the head for it.  <br />I enjoyed being in Estraven's POV much more, and I like how his voice is so different from Ai's.  It was a real jolt to come to the chapter where he finally shows us his version of the events that have transpired.  But a lovely jolt, because it came at just the right time for me.<br />On the surface of it, Left Hand, like Dune, seems to be skirting the edge of creating a world where these is only one ecology -- that of a perpetual winter.  Also like Dune, this is not the case.  Le Guin gives us a very plausible world in the midst of an ice age.  Still habitable, but human life limited by the environment.  The world of Gethen is just as much a character as Ai and Estraven, and just as intriguing.<br />This book has all of the elements of great fiction: Story, Idea, Characters, excellent Prose. <br />My edition also came with an essay by the author that talks about how science fiction isn't necessarily about predicting the future.  This book certainly is not, according to the author.  It was very much a comment on the present, and still is.  One would hope that in the future there would not still be men like Mr. Ai.  Or, at least, that they would not be chosen as people to make first contact with alien societies.  Ai strikes me as the kind of men found in abundance in late 1960's America, and still found in some corners of 21st century America.  It works extremely well in this setting and exemplifies one of the things SF does best.	2003-09-26
US	51284359	RRZ8JLZTRHA57	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Franken might be a comedian, but he knows his stuff	Most of the time when people put this book down, they say things like &quot;Franken is just a comedian.&quot;  Like somehow that means he can't have an intellegent viewpoint on any subject except cream pies.  Can anyone say Straw Man?  I knew you could.<br />Here's the thing, when Franken is picking apart the lies of people like Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly, and Sean Hannity, he does really well.  he had a bunch of great fact checkers and researchers.  it's not hard to prove these people are lying because the truth is out there for people to find.  <br />The only issue I have with Franken is that he's a die-hard Clintonite.  and while I am on the liberal side of the equation, I know that Bill is not a god, that he made many mistakes and did his own lying.  But it is the way of books such as these to adhere to one side of an issue, no matter what is really going on on that side.	2003-09-21
US	51284359	R1Q2QPWLPOITMJ	0963124684	12674625	Those Who Trespass : A Novel of Murder and Television	Books	1	17	27	N	N	You have got to be kidding...	Is it not obvious to everyone who sees this book that the murderer is supposed to be dear old Bill?  I mean, come on!  Someone really needs to watch out for this guy.  when he's finally taken down, loses his TV show, and is shown to be the worthless dreg of society he is, he's going to get a gun and go after people.  Dan Rather better have good bodyguards.<br />And beyond that, this book is badly written, sopilistic, and contains a lot of filth.  i've seen better porn on the internet.	2003-09-21
US	51284359	R2HT3FTR2K1B2Q	0553296345	169330482	Zen in the Art of Writing: Releasing the Creative Genius Within You	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent book for real writers	Zen in the Art of Writing is my favorite kind of writing book. One that doesn't tell you how to write, but how to be a writer. Those are the best kind. A collection of essays from various sources and points in his career, Bradbury gives us many glimpses into the kind of writer he is, touching on such subjects as how to keep and feed a Muse, where ideas come from and what it takes to be a writer. <br />You won't find any discussions of plot, character, pacing, etc. here. Instead you'll find inspiration, ideas, passion and a little bit of who Ray Bradbury is. Just like a story.<br />A few excerpts:<br />You must stay drunk on writing so reality cannot destroy you.<br />If you are writing without zest, without gusto, without love, without fun, you are only half a writer.<br />A good idea should worry us like a dog. We should not, in turn, worry it into the grave, smother it with intellect, pontificate it into snoozing, kill it with the death of a thousand analytical slices.<br />At heart, all good stories are the one kind of story, the story written by an individual [writer] from [her] individual truth.<br />And finally...<br />WORK<BR>RELAX<BR>DON'T THINK!<br />Zen and the Art of Writing remains an excellent book for any artist to read. It would be almost impossible to not catch Bradbury's enthusiasm, running down the pages as it does. Again, just as in good fiction.	2003-09-14
US	51284359	R24O8UITCX1LZ1	0393310396	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A must read if you want to be a writer	Letters to a Young Poet has become a classic since it first appeared back in the 1930's. Most everyone knows what the book is and is about, so I won't bore you with lengthy explanations of such. Simply put - it is a collection of letters from Rilke to a poet that wrote asking Rilke to look at his poems and tell the youth what he thought of them.<br />Every writer should read the first letter in the book. Every writer. It contains the most poignant statement he makes in all ten letters by far: <br />&quot;This above all - ask yourself in the stillest hour of the night: must I write? Delve into yourself for a deep answer. And if this should be affirmative, if you may meet this earnest question with a strong and simple 'I must,' then build your life according to this necessity...&quot; <br />This advice, given to one writer a century ago, is still one of the truest wisdoms all writers must adhere to. <br />The other nine letters offer some other pearls of wisdom concerning writing and life - also a glimpse into the man that Rilke was. But they do not match the power and depth of that first letter, which I read and re-read every week. Committing it to memory.<br />Must I write? I must.	2003-09-14
US	51284359	R1IJF4A4P3VP7P	0375700838	295933573	Random House Webster's Word Menu (Random House Newer Words Faster)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book for writers	While I'm sure this book could be useful to students, I think that fiction writers could benefit the most from it.  When I'm writing I'm always looking for words that aren't exactly synonyms but of a type.  Like different kinds of dwellings or names of instruments.  This is the first resource I've found that arranged words according to the way I need to look for them.	2003-09-14
US	51284359	R2U1NZ817CD24U	0934638209	496700257	Grants and Awards Available to American Writers, 2002-2003	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A truly great resource	I bought this book a few weeks ago from the Pen American Center.  I've found over 100 sources of funding that I qualify for right now and about 50 more that I qualify for later.  I am really loving this book.  It is designed in such a way that it's easy to scan all listings for ones that apply to you and easy to search for specific ones as well.  In the back everything is indexed several ways, making things even easier to find.<br />The information they provide you with is comprehensive and extensive.  Kudos to the editor and researcher!<br />If you're a writer, be it fiction, plays, journalistic, non-fiction, whatever, this book is a great resource for you.	2002-11-05
US	51284359	R1F5HLHA9PWQZR	0923389490	651240671	The Killers	Books	1	1	3	N	N	As dissapointing as the others	One might wonder why I read so many of Mark Rudman's books if I continuously dislike what I find.  I have no clue, perhaps I'm fooling myself into thinking that someday he might get a hold of some talent, after all he keeps getting his stuff published.  Alas, this small book lets me down as did all the others.  Nothing new, nothing truly evocative, nothing that captures my heart.  Considering the subject matter, it's amazing it didn't move me at all.<br />I do not recommend this book at all.	2001-11-28
US	51284359	RPC31202W4LB2	0140421998	602341169	Leaves of Grass: The First (1855) Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	8	N	N	Whitman can be tedious but he's still important	I have my issues with Walt Whitman's poetry.... but I cannot deny its importance.  I think everyone should at least read a little of it.  I've been forced to read Song of Myself so many times I can't stand it any more but somewhere in there are some really beautiful lines.  But you have to deal with some... other ones sometimes.  I don't really enjoy his poetry that much.  I value it as important.  This specific edition (ISBN: 0140421998) is a recreation of the very first edition of Leaves of Grass.  Over the years Whitman added poems and changed some of these so you'd be reading the first draft of some things, so to speak.  This is the best edition, in my opinion.  It shows Whitman at his freshest and I think he second-guessed himself too much with some of the revisions.  Plus this is a pretty thin edition so if you've never read Whitman then this could be a good starter.  Don't get me wrong, people interested in poetry should read Whitman.  But don't worry if you feel you must put it away afterwards.	2000-12-27
US	51284359	R3O7E1P6EAIXVO	0140076026	622842279	The Greek Myths: Illustrated Edition	Books	4	18	22	N	N	I love Greek myth and this book was great	The only reason this doesn't get 5 starts is because it's too sparse for me, but I'm a myth freak.  There is a two volume, expanded version of Robert Graves' Greek Myths and it includes notes and more stories.  If you're really into myth I suggest getting that one.  This is not a book of stories, this is a scholarly book of myths.  This would not be the book to get if you're looking to read myths in story form.  If you want to study myths this is a good book to use as introduction to the subject, the two volume version is a great reference.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	R3U6Y2UZDVGL5S	0140446494	692077883	The Complete Fables (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	60	69	N	N	Not for children, but a good source &amp; great book	I think perhaps some of the reviewers here are missing the point of this book.  And please don't go read Ben E. Perry's book because it's just full of falsities.  I know, I've read it.  Here's the thing:  the fables that I and many others have grown up with are really adaptations and distortions of the real fables.  And as the author points out, those fables may have been attributed to Aesop but he didn't think all of them up.  He had other sources he drew from.  These fables are probably not best read to children but if you're going to use them to help teach morals then adapting them to your own purpose is fine.  However, I read this edition for a scholarly purpose because I'm interested in the origins of fables and folk tales.  It is a really good book for that purpose.  Morality was not Aesop's thing, the morals were attached later.  If you're into morality then try another book.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	RLB8HOIO51EXQ	0877738807	557919738	Start Where You Are: A Guide to Compassionate Living	Books	5	206	218	N	N	Beautiful, insightful, useful	I absolutely loved this book.  I read it for a class about wisdom and of the 10 books we had to read I'm only keeping three; this is one.  I didn't know anything about Buddhism before reading this and I don't feel that I need to be a Buddhist in order to benefit from Pema's insights.  Her advice for living (taken right from lojong slogans from Buddhist traditions) can be taken on many different levels.  I don't feel that you need to go deep into the practice in order to benefit from any of this books teachings.  You take from it what you need to.  I'm adding my voice to the many here who have praised her, Pema Chodron has written a wonderful, helpful book.  If you're in pain emotionally I highly recommend it.  If you just want to get some peace in your life I highly recommend it.  Everyone needs help coping with living, even if it's just a little.  Pema has given us a guide to one way of coping.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	R1BMLQZ0OOPADQ	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The beginning of any search for meaning	I really enjoyed this book because it started me on my search for meaning.  While I don't think this is the be all, end all of books about life's meaning, I think it's important as a starting point.  I'd also love to meet any psychoanalyst who is practicing Frankl's technique.  It sounds so interesting and so helpful.  Looking at your own life to discover why you're unhappy in life.  Read this book.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	RUUP3VNSNAY3I	0394748468	826962040	The Norse Myths (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good beginning resource	I liked this book mainly for it's extensive notes to go along with all of the stories.  Western culture is not as well versed in Norse mythos as we are in greek mythos so having the notes and the intro helped me a lot.  However, this book probably wouldn't be a good resource for someone who knows a lot about Norse mythology because this is very basic.  But on the beginning of my scholarly search this was a good starting point.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	RXAE71BNR9CAL	0062509594	106484852	The Essential Rumi, New Expanded Edition	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A must read for Gnostics	Few people know this but there are three (main) types of Gnostics:  Islamic, Jewish and Christian.  Sufism is the form of Islamic Gnosticism.  I am a fledgling Gnostic myself and I didn't realize Rumi had so much to offer me even though I'm of the Christian variety.  His poetry speaks to me on so many levels and I know that by reading it I am further along the path to attaining gnosis.  <br />As other reviewers have said, Rumi's poetry is beautiful.  Read as much of it as you can.  This ook is a good start.  I could spend pages writing about the beauty and the isight but I can only say that once you read some of this book you'll know it will speak to you.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	R29E5MOFC1ZGY9	0517362422	844504752	Collected Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Emily Dickinson never gets old	She is one of the best poets I have ever read.  I'm a student now and I'd almost lost my desire to write poetry.  But after reading Dickinson again I'm inspired.  Reading her poetry and reading her life story has given me a new view on writing.  She's the best, read her!	2000-12-26
US	51284359	R2O7RN3LSEEWHL	0679433139	740001827	The Divine Comedy: Inferno; Purgatorio; Paradiso (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	127	137	N	N	A good traslation, an amazing epic	Not much needs to be said about Dante and his Comedy.  If you don't already know what it's about that's a shame.  Dante was an amazing poet and this journey through hell, purgatory and heaven is a reflection of so much about him and he times he lived in.  While some poeple believe that this was purely a work of religious fervor I know that it was only patially based in that.  The book was also political... just take a look at the people he put in hell!  People he had issues with.  This edition is great because it has endnotes which explain all of Dante's sometimes veiled references to people and events.  But that doesn't detract from Dante's knowledge of Catholic dogma and his Grecco-Roman myth heritage.  He draws from many sources (including the writings of Aquinas) religious and secular to form his vision of hell, purgatory and heaven.<br />Now, as to the translator.  I know that it's always hard to maintain a balance between the literal translation and the feeling of the poetry.  In my opinion Mandelbaum has done the right thing in staying more on the side of literacy.  Yes, Dante was a poet and he wrote beautiful poetry, but in order for us English speakers to really get what his Comedy is saying we have to have a little clarity.  Dante is veiled enough, he's a poet, when you translate poetry into more poetry you run the risk of just obfuscating more.  If you haven't ever read the Divine Comedy then try this translation first.  If you know Italian then go read the Italian and skip this translation silliness.  Or try the paperback versions that split up Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven into separate books.  The Italian is on one side and the translation on the other.  But after gaining a good understanding of the text then by all means go read more poetic versions to get a better feel of the beauty of Dante's language.	2000-12-26
US	51284359	R2TGHZC1DZTQ7P	0941920356	880043602	Claude: A Narrative Portrait of Claude Debs (Portrait Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	True Character Study - Awesome character	If nothing else can be said for Warren Lehrer you can say that he is  excellent at capturing people. I love this book.  I've read all the  portrait series books (I had  to for class) and Claude was my second  favorite. Brother Blue was my first. Claude is a captivating guy. I can  see why women love him. If you're looking for a  book that truly  reveals and captures an  honestly interesting character, buy this book.  Heck, it's worth it just to read Claude's advice for having great  relationships.	2000-06-06
US	51284359	R3KZFPLH098L40	1559360097	150097453	Out from Under: Texts by Women Performance Artists	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Women and performance, awesome.	I loved this book.  The pieces in this book are very powerful, moving and funny.  Even though it's always rewarding to see performance pieces live, these translate well into text.  My favorites are by Lenora Champagne and  Holly Hughes.  You must read this if you're interested in theater or  performance art.	2000-01-17
US	51284359	RG59FZM0TIZHY	0835606465	981754165	Jung and the Lost Gospels: Insights into the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Nag Hammadi Library	Books	4	66	70	N	N	Enlightening but sometimes heavy handed	This is a great book for anyone interested in gnostisism.  I tried reading the gnostic texts and found them to be a little confusing, but after this book I feel I can go back to them with a little insight.<br />However, you  have to keep in mind that this is not a purely academic book.  This is Mr.  Hoeller's opinions and feelings in some cases and in parts he can be a  little heavy-handed.  If you can ignore the bits where he's trying way too  hard to convince you of a specific point then you'll be fine.  Gnosis is  all about coming to your own conclusions (I hope).<br />It's an excellent  starting point for any study of gnostic texts and the whole concept of  gnostic christianity.  I recommend reading it alongside The Nag Hammadi  Library (ISBN 0-06-066935-7) or The Other Bible (ISBN 0-06-250030-9).	2000-01-14
US	51284359	R21SK3ULAI0M9S	0156001268	555900129	The Metamorphoses of Ovid	Books	5	102	105	N	N	Something everyone must read, especially if you love myth	On Ovid: This is one of the best poems ever written.  Period.  I'm a big mythology buff and many of the Greek and Roman myth versions we know today come from this work.  It also tells a compelling story.  Shakespeare  thought it was great, enough said.<br />On Mandelbaum: I've read about 4  different translations of this work and Mr. Mandelbaum's is my favorite.   He remains precise without being choppy.  He keeps it poetic, which I like.   There is a fine line translators must walk, being true to the original  text while making the english understandable and keeping the imagery, flow,  music and intent intact.  This version does all of those.	2000-01-14
US	51284359	R3U94ZUDF47T9O	0385473761	334722804	Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Good read for theater and history folks	Even though the reading of this book can't really capture all of the essence of seeing it staged, Anna Deveare Smith's Twilight is still something that should be bought.  She takes interviews and performs the  poeple exactly the way they are in order to reveal a truth.  It's very  moving.	2000-01-13
US	51284359	RCTHMAMY6X9MK	093425768X	51319863	Diverse Voices: Essays on Poets and Poetry	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Diverse, maybe.  Pretentious, for sure.	The first chapter of this book &quot;Mosaic on Walking&quot; is great for people who live in NYC.  After that, don't bother.  Rudman meanders through various subjects with a voice that not only alienates the reader with  pretentious language and a snobbish attitude but manages to take up 200+  pages and yet not say anything of significance.  Robert Pinsky is better.	2000-01-13
US	51284359	RCQNZKWC81EQR	0941920348	868245711	Charlie: A Narrative Portrait of Charles Lang (Portrait Series)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not as promising as it seems	I've read all the books in this series and this is the one I liked the least.  This can be either a good or bad thing.  I found myself not liking Charlie much, but that fact that it was Charlie who I didn't like is  impressive.  His personality is IN this book and if you like Charlie as a  person, you'll like the book.	2000-01-13
US	51284359	R46LDQDP0P3IA	0941920356	880043602	Claude: A Narrative Portrait of Claude Debs (Portrait Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A true character study - an awesome character	If nothing else can be said for Warren Lehrer you can say that he is excellent at capturing people.  I love this book.  I've read all the portrait series books (I had to for class) and Claude was my second  favorite.  Brother Blue was my first.  Claude is a captivating guy.  I can  see why women love him.  If you're looking for a book that truly reveals  and captures an honestly interesting character, buy this book.  Heck, it's  worth it just to read Claude's advice for having great relationships.	2000-01-13
US	51284359	R27ZY27AKCUOA5	0819563544	92901168	Provoked in Venice: The Rider Quintet, vol. 3 (Wesleyan Poetry Series)	Books	2	2	10	N	N	I was provoked to put it down	Mark Rudman's poetry is very distant.  Whenever I read his poems I feel like he's keeping something very important from me, like the point.	2000-01-13
US	51284359	R3JUK8F38Y074E	0941920364	146531391	Brother Blue: A Narrative Portrait of Brother Blue A.K.A. Dr. Hugh Morgan Hill (Portrait Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beautiful oral history that really captures the person	I read this book for an oral history class and loved it.  I read the entire portrait series but this book and Claude were my favorites.  i never got through the other two.  I liked this book above Claude because of  Brother Blue.  His personality is all over this book and I would love  someday to meet him.  After reading this, I feel like I know him.  This is  one of those books that really draws you in with it's straightforward  honesty and realness.  I love the reality of this man who just feels like a  real person to me.  Definately a great book.	2000-01-13
