US	51289506	R6OE2JLLM8TQ9	0736048200	756001550	High-Intensity Training	Books	3	25	30	N	N	Decent book, but a little complex.	John Philbin's book has many good points and I learned a few things I will apply to my personal workouts. However, in some respects, he makes High Intensity Training much more complicated than it needs to be for a majority of people. Overall, it is a decent book, but I think newer trainees looking for basic information on HIT may wish to look elsewhere. <br /> <br />The sections I enjoyed included his discussions of \\"time under tension\\" as a third progression factor in addition to repetitions and weight. This is a handy way for people to measure the pacing of their repetitions.  <br /> <br />Another section I found useful was the section on nutrition and sleep and recovery in general. I think many people who lift weights do not pay enough attention to this area. <br /> <br />The sections I found a little complex and perhaps not as accessible to many included his areas for workout structure and his section on excercises. I think many people would benefit from just learning a few basic exercises, such as squat, deadlift, overhead press, dips, chin-ups, and bench press, and learning to be intense on those before worrying about much smaller movements which are listed in this book. <br /> <br />I guess I was a little bothered by the \\"micro\\" details of working out, when at its heart HIT is simple to understand but difficult to execute. The basic premise is to work VERY hard and VERY briefly. However, perhaps John Philbin is trying to further the science of HIT with his experience, and perhaps my personal bias towards effective simplicity taints my review.  <br /> <br />In any case, this book is good, although I think those interested and new to HIT should check out The New High Intensity Training by Ellington Darden.	2005-01-08
US	51289506	R9RPEB9KS59LM	1901983242	223847462	The Road to Chess Improvement	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great practical advice on improving in chess.	It took me a while to purchase this book. I read many reviews praising it and browsed it in the bookstore. I finally purchased it and I'm glad I did.<br />Yermo's introduction tells about what the book is about. Basically, how he used his games as a reference to how to improve in certain areas in chess. To that end, he shows how he learned things in different areas, including emotional control during games (1st part), how to study opening set-ups vs. just memorizing lines (2nd part), the importance of calculation and analysis (3rd part), and finally a section on computer chess (4th part)-I found that part the weakest and it seemed like he tired after writing the rest of the book.<br />The key to my enjoyment of this book was that he told you what he learned from his games and gives practical advice on how to improve an aspect of your game. He does teach about chess theory in indirect ways, but more importantly, he shows you how you can use your games and study materials to learn more effectively. He also gives honest criticism of other ways of learning chess, e.g. He suggests that technology in chess such as internet chess and chess programs have hindered some because they got away from reading chess books and the inherent training of visualization and discipline that it gives. <br />My only criticism of the book is that sometimes although he writes in a very enjoyable conversational manner, sometimes I wasn't quite sure what he was getting at. For example, at the end of one chapter, he discusses improving one's visualization capabilities and discusses how reading chess books without a board might help this and then goes on to say that solving problems may not be a great way of developing this, but then he moves onto another topic without quite finishing off his thoughts on visualization. This is very conversational, as one topic often brings up another, but in text format it left me wanting to ask him some questions about what he thought. Perhaps this was intentional, as the book seems to encourage self-reflection.<br />In any case, I highly recommend this book to any player wanting to improve their chess. I think it would benefit any skill level, but I think one should have the basics of strategy and tactics down before delving into this one.	2004-07-18
US	51289506	R2RECGYM4O6OBO	0743530144	530761135	The Best Kept Secrets of Great Communicators: Nine Secret Weapons to Shine Socially, Uncover Opportunities, and Be Perceived as Smarter, Sharper, and Savvier	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Listen to this to improve your communication skills!	Peter Thompson gives a comprehensive method of improving your communication skills. He gives 9 &quot;secrets&quot; and expounds on them, giving examples, defining them, and tell you how to improve them. These secrets (not in any particular order) include active listening, using body language, asking questions, and others.<br />The great thing about it is that it is entertaining and practical. I enjoyed listening to it and then trying to apply them in my life. Any person in business needs these skills, and I would say anyone can benefit from it, since we all communicate with others (well, unless you are a hermit in the mountains I suppose). <br />He also gives tips on how to better practice these skills and use the audio. Overall, it was a great program.	2004-03-01
US	51289506	R2ZU4G6MK5ALRK	0736624554	198755712	"A" Is For Alibi	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable and entertaining mystery!	This is the first of Sue Grafton's books which I have read. It is about a mystery Kinsey Millhone, an private investigator, must solve involving the widow who had just gotten out of prison for killing her husband. However, she claims she didn't do it and hires Kinsey to find out who did.<br />I enjoyed the character development of Kinsey, and felt I got to understand her a little bit. Her interaction with the other characters allowed us to understand her personality more as well. Also, I liked the style in which Grafton portrayed Millhone through 1st person perspective. You &quot;got into the shoes&quot; of Kinsey Millhone and followed her through the mystery.<br />My only problems (and these were minor) were that at times some of the action was not described in much detail. Although perhaps this was partly due to the fact that it was the story was told in the first person, it didn't help me &quot;picture&quot; the story. One scene in particular was striking in this particular aspect. However, it came at the end of the story and kind of gives it away, so I cannot explain it...but it gave me the feeling that Grafton got &quot;tired&quot; of writing so she kind of wrapped it up quicly.<br />As I listened to the audio version, I wanted to comment on the actor's performance of the book. I thought it was excellent. Her change in inflection and pacing helped me to experience Kinsey's emotions as I went through the book.<br />Overall, I enjoyed it and recommend it to mystery lovers.	2003-11-16
US	51289506	R2NCJGFD85TGBV	0761506160	718992823	7 Strategies for Wealth & Happiness: Power Ideas from America's Foremost Business Philosopher	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	Simple strategies...that's its strength!	Jim Rohn is a master teacher and speaker. In this book, he gives seven strategies for success and happiness. These seven strategies are not original or new. For example, acquiring wisdom, setting and using goals, and personal development are not new concepts. However, Jim Rohn gives you SIMPLE and USEABLE ways to apply these concepts right away. Many people look for the &quot;magic&quot; solution on how to get rich or become happy or successful and what this books shows you is that the magic is in your discipline towards applying these concepts and improving your life. <br />Like all good teachers, he stresses that you have to apply your knowledge, not just absorb it passively. He also uses examples from his life and from people he has met. This is both motivational and instructive. A lot of it is common sense (another reviewer mentioned that this is nothing new). That's true! But that's why it's so powerful. Besides the quality of the content, it's pretty easy to read and not too long. I finished it in a weekend because I couldn't put it down!<br />I highly recommend this book as a fairly comprehensive instruction manual on how to improve your life and succeed in whatever endeavors you wish to take on	2003-09-09
US	51289506	R9D8DEYK2DO6H	0471250686	674513095	Winners are Driven: A Champion's Guide to Success in Business and Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book on winning in business and life (and racing)!	Bobby Unser was a very successful race car driver. This book shows that he always is a successful business man. Not being a racing fan, I wasn't too excited at first, but I enjoy reading motivational and self-improvement books, so I thought I'd check it out. Although I wouldn't say it turned me into a racing fan, I got to appreciate the scientific and sporting aspects of racing.<br />The advice given, although not earth-shattering, is both true and effective. For example, he talks about the desire to succeed and how this is a necessary &quot;fuel&quot; for winning. Many other self-development authors speak about this much as well. It is not anything new. However, He gives vivid examples from his racing career and from other anecdotes of friends and acquaintances. These examples are well-chosen because they are inspiring. <br />This is similar to other sections of his book. Bobby Unser seems to be very principle oriented as well as a man of integrity. He talk about instances where he could have turned his back on a commitment for monetary gain or to get on a better racing team (he made it seem like it was a somewhat common occurance in auto racing), but he stayed true to his commitment and it ended benefiting him in the end. This is refreshing considering some of the stereotypes of big business today where the search for a dollar seems to be the guiding principle sometimes. <br />I highly recommend this book. Even though it has a lot of auto racing stories, Unser tells them in a way that non-fans would really enjoy them and get motivation from their example.	2003-07-13
US	51289506	R2UC6UA75G1KBB	0812922913	947476728	The Inner Game of Chess: How to Calculate and Win	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Okay book on thinking process, but not much advice.	This book started strong. GM Soltis started out by describing when calculation is used and when it is not, and in general what the meaning of calculation was. He finished the chapter with an exercise in visualization which I really thought was a great start to a book which would help me calculate better.<br />As the book went along, he discussed different parts of the calculation process, such as ideas, force, counting out, errors, and practical calculating. He used pretty good examples to illustrate his points. At times, he had exercises which helped train tactics and visualization (but not many). He did a fairly good job and &quot;describing&quot; different steps in the calculation process. <br />However, as I went through the book, I found that he didn't really give too much advice as to how to train one's calculation skills other than to describe different mistakes in calculating and some concepts which masters use in calculation. I didn't feel it had many recommendations on how to improve this aspect. In the summary, he finishes by saying that different methods of calculating work well and that we all have to develop our own way! How do I do this? Why did I even read this book? These were questions that the book did not answer. <br />However, despite my criticism, I think it is a decent book. I think by assessing the concepts he presented and comparing it to my own play and thought processes, I thought perhaps I could glean some advice from the book. Also, in this particular case I visualized many of the positions without using a board, so I felt I improved my visualization skills. However, these benefits don't have too much to do with this book in particular, but instead my method of studying the book.<br />In any case, if you want to learn a little about typical calculation errors and different methods of calculation, this book may be okay for you. However, if you want to improve your own calculating and visualization skills, you might be better off studyingtactical problems and analyzing your games and assessing your own particular style of calculating. That's what GM Soltis says on the last page anyway!	2003-05-22
US	51289506	R3DUXK35JLDKNL	0345429133	144220583	I Am Jackie Chan: My Life in Action	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An honest open look at Jackie Chan's life.	I have been a big fan of his movies, but I did not know much of his personal life other than that he was a former Chinese Opera performer. This book describes his life, from his childhood growing up as the child of a cook and maid to an ambassador in Hong Kong, getting into trouble and having problems with school. It then goes through his ten years of life at the opera academy, and went into great detail to explain the tough life of exercise, training, and rehearsals that went into this. The book goes on to describe his rough start in the movies as a stuntman and his climb to the top, ending with his then current project at the time--Rush Hour.<br />At first, I wasn't sure how much I'd like this book, but Jackie's honesty and openness about his feelings throughout his life and hardships that he had to go through was very endearing. He admits to being a cocky person when he first tasted success, causing him to lose one of the loves of his life. I really enjoyed reading about his evolution from that person to a more humble, yet ambitious veteran actor which he is now. <br />For fans of his movies who have seen his bloopers and mistakes at the end of the film, we read how all of the work through his childhood to early stardom to the present has gone into it. I almost felt that I could truly understand what went behind the movie and stunts that we might take for granted. <br />In any case, this book is a must for any Jackie fan, and is also inspiring as Jackie shows that hard work and a dream can often lead to great things.	2003-04-30
US	51289506	RKGHHS9JM89HB	034540890X	768351105	A New Era	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent coverage from inside source.	A New Era was a very interesting book! This book provides coverage of Kasparov's championship defense against Vishy Anand, as well as his two matches against Deep Blue. The difference between this book and other books on the matches is that it is written by one of Kasparov's team, master Mikhail Khodarkovsky. This means that it includes much inside information about how Garry was feeling through the matches as well as fascinating insights into how their team prepared for each game and the general strategy of match play. <br />Kasparov is a very common hero for chess players not just because he is perhaps the greatest player ever but also because he often shows his emotions both on and off the board. He is a passionate person, as exhibited by his play as well as his views on politics and other topics. This book illustrates this aspect as he goes through the emotional ups and downs that comes from playing at the pinnacle of the game. <br />The games themselves were fascinating. I also have read Patrick Wolff's account of the 1995 World Championship match as well as Pandolfini's book on the second match against Deep Blue, so I had some background on the games. It is interesting to compare the feelings of Anand in Patrick Wolff's book (he was one of Anand's seconds) with that of Kasparov's during the same match.<br />My only criticism of the book is with regards to the analysis. It is detailed and includes Kasparov's own preparation and analysis. However, at times I feel it could be over the heads of less than advanced chess players because there is little commentary. However, I felt I could enjoy the games overall anyway. However, I don't think this detracts too much from the book overall as I felt the strength of the book was Khodarkovsky's perspective as an inside person in Kasparov's life.<br />If you are a fan of Kasparov's, you would do well to read this book. If you are a fan of chess, I also highly recommend it.	2003-04-11
US	51289506	R28ZU58DBLKMS8	1586212052	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Exciting performance.	I listened to the Audio CD version of this book, which I thought was very enjoyable. Having read several of the other reviews on the book version, I think the Audio CD can be likened to a action thriller. It was abridged, so I cannot complain as some reviewers have of the length of the book. <br />Oliver and Charlie, the two brothers, were very likeable. I found myself rooting for them as they tried to figure out the mystery of the story. Admittedly, many parts of the story were somewhat unbelievable. For example, Oliver and Charlie make it past several high-security areas of different locales through deception as well as surviving against two veteran Secret Service agents who are after them.<br />Meltzer explains the technical jargon of banking, surveillence equipment, and computers as they showed up in the story well I think without taking away from the flow of the story. Basically, I tried to listen to every word of the performance (on the Audio CD) because I felt each part provided a clue for later in the story. <br />Some of the reviews called this book a fast and easy read, which I think would be true. It was entertaining. You rooted for the good guys as they tried to escape the bad guys, you tried to figure out the mystery along the way, and the ending was decent and \\"fair.\\"	2003-01-28
US	51289506	R1HT00D6P3Y60P	0425179613	495393406	It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Good cycling stuff...so-so everything else.	I was somewhat torn as to what to rate this book. On the one hand , Armstrong does an excellent job of expressing what it feels like to be a world-class cyclist and the emotions that go into racing in the Tour de France. I particularly enjoyed his description of his training. He is indeed an incredible athlete.<br />I was also impressed with his recovery from cancer. It was a miracle of both modern medicine and his incredible faith and fighting spirit that he not only survived, but went on to improve his already impressive racing career. He was very thankful of the doctors and staff that helped him along, as well as being appreciative of his friends and family who supported him.<br />All of this being said, I found it hard to read at times. His writing was not great, and sometimes I found him to be a annoying. Not having had cancer, I cannot claim to understand how it feels, but I don't think it gives him the right to be a jerk as he sometimes comes off in the book. I understand that some of his cockiness is why he is so successful at cycling, but he mistreats his wife and some of his friends throughout the book as they try to help him through depression and the physical torment of his recovery from cancer. He passes these times when he is inconsiderate or selfish as \\"they understand that I it was not a time to talk to me about this...\\" or \\"she's such a stud because she understands why I need to do this.\\" I didn't find many places where he did anything for his wife/girlfriend...it was mainly about how she sacrificied for him. At other times, I disliked how he whined about how teams wouldn't pay him top dollar when he came back--\\"They only wanted to pay me $250,000 which is like the minimum for a rider like me.\\" We should only have such problems. In any case, I found it hard to like him during these times and wanted him to get back to the cycling parts. <br />One other thing I almost laughed at everytime I noticed was that he tries to throw in a bunch of \\"one-liners.\\" They may have had a different effect when he said them in person, but when he quotes them in the book, they come off as cheesy and amateurish writing.<br />I guess the main thing is that I enjoyed reading the book. My thoughts were that it was really incredible that a person would kick cancer and then go on to be one of the best cyclist in the world. I found the details of his training and racing as well as his cancer treatment fascinating and inspiring. However, as I read it, I wished the person who accomplished all of this would have been a nicer person.	2003-01-14
US	51289506	R3NT7G68KJ7G74	0140230386	747772867	Searching for Bobby Fischer: The Father of a Prodigy Observes the World of Chess	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Look at chess world at large.	Fred Waitzkin gives insight to both the world of his son, who in the book is fast becoming one of the best chess players in the United States for his age, and the chess world in general. His profession as a writer gave him access to a lot of behind-the-scenes politics, for example with the World Championship match and also meeting Boris Gulko, a Soviet champion who was ostracized, beaten, and otherwise abused because  his political views were not aligned with the dominant Soviet view at the time. He contrasts this &quot;celebrity&quot; or &quot;public figure&quot; status that Soviet chess players had to those of American masters, who travel around the country trying to make ends meet playing in tournament after tournament, while most are considered eccentric and some are even homeless. <br />I enjoyed Fred Waitzkin's writing style and having played competitive chess and actually seeing or meeting some of the characters he mentioned was very interesting. A couple other reviews gave low ratings because it seemed like it was misleading as only parts of the book are about his son, but I think Waitzkin's comprehensive view of the chess world at large and the contrast between this and his own personal chess life is interesting.	2003-01-08
US	51289506	R2US8F9PPJ3TCT	0743525159	215963743	Lessons in Mastery	Books	5	43	48	N	N	Comprehensive lessons on different strategies.	Anthony Robbins talks about different topics on these audio CD's. Some of these include decision making (a big one with him), using metaphors in our life, living in our technologically-advancing world, and knowing what we want. These are just a few of thing concepts and topics he talks about. I like many things that Tony Robbins writes because he gives us the key to any of the technical stuff that he uses--that we have to take the effort and do it! He constantly talks about not just listening to the tape, and this is important to hear. In these CD's, he discusses his role as a coach, and that is what he is. Not just someone who gives the information, but also reminds us that we have to do something with it.<br />As for the techniques, I have not been able to take advantage of all of them yet. I think the beauty of it is that I think one of his strategies is to give people many different ways of reaching their goals, becoming happy, and improving their lives and people can choose which ones they like and might fit in with their personality and style.<br />I recommend this to you if you are willing to do some work in improving yourself. If you just want to listen to the CD's and say, &quot;that's nice&quot; it probably won't work for you.	2003-01-07
US	51289506	R1E3LPT4ELQVFW	0671659723	701409838	Weapons of Chess: An Omnibus of Chess Strategies (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Discussion of pawn structures excellent.	I got this book as part of a bundle of books I purchased. I didn't think much of it. However, I would read it every once in a while when I didn't have a board handy or wanted some &quot;light&quot; reading. Many of the concepts were not new to me (USCF Rating ~1700). However, I found his discussion of different elements of pawn structure to be very informative. Particularly, his detailed discussion of isolated d-pawns, backwards pawns, doubled pawns, and pawn majorities were pretty good I think. <br />I play many openings which garner the isolated d-pawn (both with and against it) and my study of this topic in this book really helped my play in these positions. He breaks down the isolated d-pawn into strengths, weaknesses, and what to do when you have it and when you are playing against it. These sections I think are the best in the book.<br />The strength of this book is its simplicity. I think it is important to know the ideas (which you can gain from this book) and to see many concrete examples from master play (which you should find in other books). If you have many books on pawn structure, you may not want this book.<br />I found the other sections to be not as helpful, because other books I had did a sufficient job in teaching me these concepts. However, I think this is a good book for general positional ideas, particularly in the realm of pawn structures, which is an important one in chess.<br />I recommend this book for players under 1500. Players over 1500 may have much of this knowledge and I would recommend Silman's The Amateur's Mind to those.	2002-12-17
US	51289506	R18K8INNLGKAV9	0865681317	212153407	Jun Fan/Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Basic outline of Jun Jan Jeet Kune Do.	I purchased this book on the recommendation of my JKD instructor. It has been an excellent supplement to my lessons. I don't feel that one can &quot;learn&quot; martial arts from a book alone. However, this book gives many techniques and drills that can be learned and adapted if one has some experience in JKD, boxing, Wing Chun, or Filipino martial arts. <br />There are several sections, including basic stances or postures and striking techniques, drills, psychological and physical attributes, footwork, and other sections. I found particularly useful the section on attributes, which gives advice and drills to develop attributes such as timing, speed, quickness, perception, etc. These are skills which are not talked about as much in other martial arts books, which might focus more on developing techniques such as punches, kicks, blocking, joint-locking, etc. <br />This is not a book just to be read from cover-to-cover. You need to practice the techniques and drills to improve. There are many pictures of the drills, which are useful.<br />If you are cross-training in different arts or want ideas for different workouts, check out this book. If you train in Jun Fun or JKD, this is a must-have.	2002-12-13
US	51289506	R2VNP3DFSOBW7H	0486215482	470338793	My Chess Career	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Beautiful games of Capablanca.	This book presents several of Capablanca's games before he became a world champion. I really enjoyed (and still enjoy) studying and playing over these games. Capablanca was perhaps one of the top 3 world champs (with Fischer and Kasparov). His games show much clarity and are easy to understand even though the moves would be hard to find on one's own. <br />Capablanca has brief notes with a little analysis. I wish he would have had a little more. However, I enjoyed his notes, because in spots it elucidated a key point to a plan he had. However, these notes are few, perhaps one or two per game. Often, he makes a statement like &quot;Better would have been X&quot; without explaining. These comments are not very useful for amateur players. However, he sometimes (perhaps once a game) gives a more useful comment, such as the reasoning behind the move, or the reply to another dangerous looking move to the opponent. <br />The games themselves are beautiful. It is interesting seeing how Capablanca's game evolved from when he was a child. One great feature of the book is that before each &quot;period&quot; he talks about how he has changed. For example, he mentions that he did not know much about openings, but that he was very strong in the endgame since a youth. Later, he talks about how he matures and becomes a more complete player.<br />In summary:<br />Positive:<BR>1. Incredible games by Capa. One can't help but feel &quot;stronger&quot; as a player after studying these games.<BR>2. Interesting commentary on his development.<BR>3. Analysis (when he gives it) is very insightful.<br />Negatives:<BR>1. Not enough explaination behind the analysis.<BR>2. Descriptive notation is not as common (a later version in algebraic is available, and I would give that 4 stars).	2002-12-13
US	51289506	R1VLYSD3SBDD5A	0399138277	355686416	Mortal Games	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Behind the Scenes or a World Champion	I enjoyed this book immensely. I think Waitzkin does a good job of portraying Garry Kasparov's life both within the chess world and as a budding political figure and chess celebrity. This book does well in illustrating the hectic life that goes with being the strongest chess player in the world. <br />It also shows both his strengths and weaknesses in his personality, which project themselves onto the chessboard as well. We see Garry sometimes as both the confident champion who towers over opponents both on the chess board and physically. We also see an insecure young man who has been forced to face the world early in his life because of his success in chess.<br />In this book, you can perceive Waitzkin's paternal instincts kicking in, as he also has a son who is a world-class player. I think at times Garry looks to Fred Waitzkin as a father figure (or at least that's how the book makes it seem). <br />Waitzkin's text descriptions of the chess matches Garry plays are interesting. I think even those who do not play chess can appreciate the intensity of the games.<br />In all, I think this is a great book which shows us the personality of Garry Kasparov.	2002-12-03
US	51289506	R2QB7TU1W5ESA9	1888281030	271372670	Kasparov Versus Anand: The Inside Story of the 1995 Chess Championship Match	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent coverage of the match from an inside source.	Patrick Wolff has provided a personal an comprehensive view of the World Championship match between Kasparov and Vishy Anand. His position as one of Vishy Anand's seconds allows him to provide inside information on the interesting event of a championship chess match.<br />Wolff provides a background of the match, including how it was planned, including political and financial issues which arose before the match. He gives a biography of each player including an assessment of their strengths and weaknesses (as many as a World Champion and challenger would have) as players, illustrating these with an annotated game by each. <br />One of the most interesting parts for me was his description of Anand's preparation for the match. From the selection of his team of master players to help him to the sessions of training, study, and analysis the team did, it was a very in depth look at how world-class players prepare for such an event. Wolff talked not only about the science of chess, but the psychology behind playing in a chess match against the champ and how this affected selection of openings and variations. <br />Then we move onto the match itself. After a brief but good introduction to the game--which included how Anand was feeling or what the general match strategy was, Wolff presents some of the most detailed analysis I have seen. Sometimes, the variations and analysis for a single move will cover a page or more. In a couple games, Wolff does not give much analysis, noting that some of the analysis is not &quot;public domain&quot; yet as they have not been played in a game and it was privileged information from Anand's preparation for the match. Nonetheless, the amount and depth of analysis is incredible. That being said, some of this is not for the beginning player. As an intermediate player, I still find much of it over my head. However, Wolff provides enough &quot;text&quot; (actually, he provides plenty) to keep me informed at the level I can understand until my own knowledge of the game increases and I can fully appreciate his detailed analysis.<br />Some people may be put off by this much analysis, but it helped me to appreciate the depth of understanding these two players possess. And for strong players (stronger than myself), I can imagine that this depth would be inspiring in their own efforts to understand chess.<br />For experienced and advanced players, enjoy and learn from the analysis! I would not recommend this as an instructional book for beginners, but it was not meant to be such. Instead, this is a very detailed and comprehensive look at this World Championship match.	2002-11-27
US	51289506	R9O33DSL3V9DU	0945470207	120185454	Von Hennig Schara Gambit	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Poor editing and no help in learning this opening.	Eric Schiller I believe is becoming known for sloppy analysis and fast writing. This book follows along these lines. In this book, Schiller presents the Hennig-Schara Gambit, which arises in the Tarrasch Defense. I became interested in this defense after reading an article on the internet. After looking through the book, I found the internet article more informative and useful in learning how to play this gambit.<br />Here are my problems with the book. First, there is a lack of explaination or analysis in certain positions. This is a fairly tactical, aggressive opening, and some detailed analysis is necessary to justify some of the moves made. Often, Schiller will site a few games, just &quot;dumping&quot; the entire game score without explaination. When he does provide analysis, there are often mistakes. In one game, he talks about how he analyzed this with a fellow master. He assesses the line as winning for Black, but on the next move (which is not listed), White can win Black's queen with no compensation. This type of analysis is typical in this work.<br />I can go on with specific examples, but suffice it to say that this book was not helpful for me (an intermediate-level player) to learn to play this opening. The only reason I give this two stars instead of one is that there is not much coverage of this opening, and at least this presents some games in this opening, including one by Boris Spassky. However, if you have a database program such as Chessbase, you can probably find this on a comprehensive database anyway.	2002-11-27
US	51289506	RQ6F3X5EK5L6X	0671656880	492646508	Pandolfini's Endgame Course: Basic Endgame Concepts Explained by America's Leading Chess Teacher (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Basic knowledge for beginner to intermediate players.	I think this book is a great start to learning the endgame. Pandolfini explains each position and the ideas behind most of the moves. It is true, some of these positions are very simple, but this book is geared towards people who have never studied the endgame. I got this book when I just started playing chess competitively (around rating 1000). I went through this book step by step, as it is ordered from easiest to more complex. This helped increase my understanding of concepts such as opposition, corresponding squares, and maneuvers with the rook. I think the most important sections in this book are the rook and pawn and king and pawn sections, as these come up very often in actual play. The format is easy to follow and it is a good book to read from front to back if you have little or no knowledge of the endgame. As you get better, you can practice your visualization by looking at the diagram and visualizing the moves without using a board while reviewing the position. After you have studied this book, you can move onto more advanced endgame instructional books.	2002-11-27
US	51289506	R1I55IAYSLZ70L	1857442210	308167756	Nunn's Chess Openings (Everyman Chess Series)	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	A great reference for intermediate players and up.	I decided to write this review after reading the other reviews on this book. I have used this book for about two years and I think it is very helpful. However, there are a few things to remember when deciding to purchase this book:<br />1. This is a reference book meant for people who are serious about learning chess openings. It is not meant as an &quot;instructional&quot; tool to tell you the ideas of the openings, but instead as a reference if you already have some knowledge of openings and basic strategy.<br />2. This is not meant for beginners. When it comes to openings, players under say 1300-1400 should concentrate on learning the ideas behind the openings rather than worrying about specific opening lines past move 10. Players under 1300 should try Reuben Fine's Idea's Behind the Chess Openings or Seirawan's Winning Chess Openings to get ideas that come from these openings. Players below this level more often lose games because of tactical blunders rather than not knowing an opening. I actually got this book when I was rated around 1200, and I basically put it away until I was rated around 1500. Now, at 1700, I use it after each of my games to see what &quot;theory&quot; says about the opening I play.<br />3. This is a comprehensive reference, so it will not have every opening known to man. Some of the unsound gambits and &quot;trick&quot; openings are not covered because a) not many people play them and b) these can be refuted or defeated by understanding tactics better (many of these off-beat openings require the other player to play a natural move and lose because they &quot;missed&quot; the tactical trick. These types of openings should not be in a book such as this, because many players can probably figure out these traps and avoid them in their play. It is true that some of my openings are not covered very much in this book, but a majority of them are, and usually the ones that aren't covered I play because I already have a book or other resource for that opening.<br />This is a great book if you have some experience in chess and wish to look up openings when analyzing your games or even to learn new openings (until you get good enough that you need more specialized material).ning.<br />This is a great book if you have some experience in chess and wish to look up openings when analyzing your games or even to learn new openings (until you get good enough that you need more specialized material).	2002-11-27
US	51289506	R14WNSZO9I6U8W	0812917561	112029864	The Ideas Behind the Chess Openings: Algebraic Notation	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Great explanation of many openings.	I purchased this book on a recommendation from a stronger player. I had already purchased NCO and found that I did not &quot;understand&quot; the ideas behind the chess openings. Reuben Fine explains many openings (although some currently popular openings are not covered as much). He goes into great detail about certain openings, such as the Indian Defenses such as the King's Indian, Queen's Indian, and Nimzo Indian Defenses. His diagrams with pawn structures are very helpful in understanding these openings. I use this book to understand the opening ideas while I use NCO and my database to get more current information on chess theory. It's a great combination. <br />My only criticism is that it is not current, but at my level and below (USCF ~1700), it is sufficient (especially in combination with Nunn's Chess Openings) for my needs in understanding the opening phase of the game.	2002-11-27
US	51289506	R30ZPB617ZIMOY	1890085006	354333399	How to Reassess Your Chess: The Complete Chess-Mastery Course, Expanded 3rd Edition	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Silman's writing makes mastering chess enjoyable.	I have gone through this book a couple times and have recently started reading Silman's The Amateur's Mind. Silman discusses his thinking technique on how to visualize and plan based on the imbalances of a chess position. He then spends the majority of the book going through each of these imbalances so that the player will understand this during their planning. <br />When I first read this, I was rated about 1200 USCF (beginning player). I improved a little because before this time I was not using the elements of the position to make plans...actually I wasn't planning at all!<br />Silman's writing is very clear and readable. He picks excellent examples from the play of masters including his own games. He gives enough extra analysis to understand the position without confusing the reader with extraneous analysis. On a superficial note, I also like the production of the book. <br />Another aspect of the book is the problems. At the end of each section there are a couple positions to solve. These aren't the typical (mate in two or White to move and win) problems. He asks you to make plans or describe the imbalances. Basically, he makes you work. In the back of the book, his answers enlighten and makes you feel like he's sitting across from you giving you a lesson.<br />My only caveat is that it is not easy for the total beginner. If I were to do it over again, I would read &quot;The Amateur's Mind&quot; first and after I reached 1500 or so, I would read HTRYC to get the most out of it. However, if one reads and works at it, this book gives you all of the information you need to understand chess better.<br />In summary, HTRYC is as good as people say it is. It has helped me improve dramatically (500+ ratings points over 3 years of playing).	2002-11-22
US	51289506	R1ZBOUSYZK2W6I	1890085022	389332715	The Amateur's Mind: Turning Chess Misconceptions into Chess Mastery	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent for players under Expert level.	I purchased Silman's How To Reassess Your Chess. I improved quite a bit after reading it. However, after talking to a couple stronger players they recommended that I should try out The Amateur's Mind. They were right! It covers much of the same material as How To Reassess Your Chess, but also shows the thoughts of players of different levels and their mistakes in thinking. At times, I can totally identify with his students and their thoughts. After presenting examples where the student's thinking was incorrect or incomplete, he often gives tips to correct these errors in thinking. These tips are often short and direct, making them easy to remember and use. <br />If you don't have either of Silman's books, I would recommend getting The Amateur's Mind first, and after reaching a rating of 1800 or so (strong intermediate level) then check out How to Reassess Your Chess. <br />Finally, Silman's writing is enjoyable. When I don't have time to set up a board and study it deeply, I enjoy reading his commentary around his moves. They are very enlightening for the beginner and intermediate player.	2002-10-30
US	51289506	R3MV6YXELXUES5	0936070242	296809860	Getting Stronger: Weight Training for Men and Women (Revised Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent information for the athlete.	This book has everything an athlete of most sports needs to design a strength training program. There is information on how the muscles work, nutrition, specific programs for different sports, general principles of strength training and fitness, and specific exercises for different body parts. <br />I really like this book because it gives specific programs suggested by professionals in those sports. It's not just what a body builder &quot;thinks&quot; a boxer or basketball player should train. Also, it gives enough general information and exercises that an athlete can individualize their program for their own needs. The illustrations are very good as well.<br />If you play sports and are interested in improving your strength, I highly recommend this book. Actually, I have the older version of this book, so the revision should be even better.	2002-05-14
US	51289506	R2OLFIJ8UI4MR0	0375416404	600659267	Off Camera: Private Thoughts Made Public	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Diary copied over into book with no editing.	My first thought in his first couple entries was that he was trying a little to hard to be funny ala Dennis Miller or Jay Leno. However, then I realized that he wasn't, he was just blurting out his thoughts from each day (and almost every day).<br />I feel there was not much cohesion throughout the book. He spends a lot of time on the war in Kosovo, as that was a big event during that year. However, he puts in little tidbits about his growing up and his new house or something irrelevant. Even though it was meant to be his personal thoughts on various topics, I felt he should have organized the material a little bit.<br />On the good side, it was interesting hearing about the difficulties of being a reporter during the war, and getting some of that insider information. Similarly, it was interesting hearing his perspective from having been around for a while in the journalism business.<br />Overall, I made it through the whole book, but every once in a while while listening to it (Audio CD version), I would think, \\"Now why did he include that?\\" I feel this work could have been improved through some editting and some thoughtful exclusions or reorganization of the material.	2002-04-22
US	51289506	R1ER6HF1J0ZVQT	0942637763	373232885	Living the Martial Way: A Manual for the Way a Modern Warrior Should Think	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good book, although idealistic at times.	I was first attracted to this book when I read the back and saw that he studied one of the styles that I have studied. Upon reading the book, I was happy to see that it had much content that I found useful and interesting.<br />This book has many good sections for the martial artist, including sections on honor (one of my favorite), training, and strategy. I see the book as a good overall reference regarding both philosophical and physical issues which martial artists face.<br />I got this book about 5 years ago, and since then, some of my training practices and thoughts have changed. I think now that much of the philosophical content is very idealistic, but I think can be useful to anyone, martial artist and non-martial artist alike. However, some of the physical conditioning I find to be somewhat narrow and basic in its treatment. However, his examples and principles are pretty good overall.<br />The author has done his homework and the book is well researched and referenced (and he has very good quotations). If you are just starting out in martial arts, especially traditional martial arts such as Karate or traditional Jiujitsu, you may find this book very useful. However, I think you may enjoy this book even if you study other systems.	2002-03-18
US	51289506	R3ETFYDOCVPN5W	0671701851	189447936	More Chessercizes: Checkmate: 300 Winning Strategies for Players of All Levels	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Despite some errors, a great puzzle book.	This was one of the first chess puzzle books I have purchased. I was a beginner when I got this. By the time I finished it, a couple years later, I considered myself an intermediate (USCF Rating ~1600). This book, and other puzzle books, are the backbone of being able to visualize and calculate better.<br />Pandolfini's format is good, moving from the most easy to the most difficult problems throughout the book. The player can progress at his own pace. I personally kept a notebook with all of my analysis as I went through the harder ones. I also used the book to warm-up before games, solving 5-10 problems. How you use it is up to your own creativity. The problems are good too I think, and simulate game-like positions. Also, the layout of the book is nice and makes it easy to use.<br />My only criticism is some analytical or typographical errors in Pandolfini's solutions. A couple times, I spent a long time on a problem, found a solution, and went to the back and found that I was wrong, only to re-analyze the problem (and eventually show it to friends) and find that his solution was incorrect. There were a few of these errors in the book (maybe 5-7 out of the 300 or so problems), and one problem where he had as White to move, and it was really a Black-to-move problem.<br />However, despite these errors, this is a good book overall, and beginners and intermediate players can benefit from solving the problems held within.	2002-03-16
US	51289506	R19EQW46ZSDVKR	0743500474	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese : An Amazing Way To Deal With Change In Your Work And In Your Life	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An entertaining and simple way to look at change.	This is a great story and philosophy about change. The story is simple and short. It can be understood by even children I would think. I listened to the audio CD version and it made a nice quick little story on my way to work. On that edition there was also discussion about how the story was interpreted and used by several people in different occupations and situations.	2002-03-15
US	51289506	R2KCRNDFPLR7Z	0553712586	274569076	Gangster	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable, even if predictable.	This is the first book I have read (or heard on audio CD) by the author. After having read some of the other reviews, I see threads with both the good and the bad that I agree with.<br />On the good side, the audio CD version is performed very well by Joe Mantegna. His voice inflections really get you into the thick of the story. The story itself gets you to feel for the characters and want the &quot;good guys&quot; to win out. You get somewhat of a feeling what it is like to be in a gang, and actually understand the &quot;honor&quot; or &quot;loyalty&quot; that mobsters have for their criminal family.<br />However, this story is like many movies that I have watched (and enjoyed). The characters are somewhat one-dimensional and predictable. The story is also somewhat predictable (including the ending). Also, there are big jumps in the story and plot twists which are not very developed and only at the end does it come together, but this is not because it was suspenseful, only not well developed). It would probably make an exciting entertaining action movie.<br />That said, I enjoyed listening to it. Despite my criticism, the performance on the CD was entertaining.	2002-03-14
US	51289506	R1KJ2U919C8CSQ	1559276126	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great anecdotes and principles.	I have listened to this audiobook several times, each time gleaning a little more wisdom. Mr. Hill's experience with many of America's most successful politicians, businessmen, and geniuses has been synthesized into a set of principles every one can use to improve their lives. My only criticism is that I wish there was more of Napolean's actual voice from his seminars or speeches. The reader has a fine voice, but lacks some of the inflection of the original author I think.<br />I find it difficult to utilize all of Napoleon Hill's instructions to the letter, but I have found that by adapting some of the principles that I can do in my life, I have accomplished more than I would have otherwise.	2002-03-08
US	51289506	RZEVYQCBC3XSB	0713484640	904087988	Logical Chess: Move By Move: Every Move Explained New Algebraic Edition	Books	5	25	27	N	N	If you are under 1600 or a beginner, read this!	This book is excellent and timeless. One thing that many modern chess books fail to do is explain the &quot;simple&quot; moves. They go for 5-10 moves without comment or with some analysis with no commentary. For beginning and intermediate players, who do not understand why these moves are important or why they are good moves, this type of analysis is not as helpful. In this book, Chernev goes over every move, sometimes repeating over and over the principles of these moves over several games. However, after going through it, you will understand how to play logically and have a plan and purpose for each move. The games are old, and so sometimes the openings are outdated, but for the beginner, this is not as much a factor, because they lose for other reasons. Chernev's writing is entertaining as well, and he also puts in some analysis in more complicated situations to illustrate. I've reread several games, and sometimes been able to follow along without using a board, as this edition has ample diagrams. Overall, highly recommended to anyone who is not an expert!	2002-03-08
US	51289506	R256M9SN42LEKZ	9990146039	92755284	Unlimited Power: The Way to Peak Personal Achievement	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great inspiration and strategies.	I enjoy Anthony Robbins material in general, but I especially enjoyed Unlimited Power because I felt it gave me more readily usable advice, including different strategies for modeling someone's syntax, belief systems, and physiology to improve oneself. Like all self-improvement material, it takes effort on the reader or listener, though, to affect change. However, Anthony Robbins gives you some of the tools to do so. I have listened to this several times (about a year apart) and each time I get motivated and something else clicks with me.	2002-03-04
US	51289506	R1AH7QFC7NWREY	1889323055	176057473	Chess Strategy for the Tournament Player (Comprehensive Chess Course Series)	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Accessable to the intermediate player.	I really improved after reading this book. I read this book on a plane ride to California (from Buffalo) and during my trip (4 days). I finished it a couple days after returning (about a week and a half total on the book). <br />I did not have a board, but I visualized the board from the diagram as there were enough for me to do so. I enjoyed the examples and thought they were very useful in teaching the material. <br />In any case, a couple weeks later, I won the Under 1600 section of the New York State Chess Championship. I'm not saying that this book was the only reason for doing this, but I learned much and was inspired by the positional play in all of the examples I read.<br />My only criticism is that there wasn't enough analysis behind some of the moves where the author makes a statement such as &quot;and of course move x was terrible&quot; and doesn't explain it. However, in my specific case, this was good, as I couldn't really analyze too many variations anyway, and instead was able to get the ideas behind the strategies explained.<br />I highly recommend this book as well as &quot;Chess Tactics for the tournament Player&quot; by the same author.	2002-03-04
US	51289506	R3TPP65ZV7YUWG	0375416420	522305574	Jazz: A History of America's Music	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great overview of jazz.	I enjoyed listening to this extensive overview of the history of jazz. The reader, LaVar Burton, was excellent in his reading of the text. The quotations and remarks from various musicians through the years were refreshing and interesting. My only wish, as this was an audiobook, was more musical examples of the artists. For example, after explaining a style of a musician, having a short interlude illustrating it would be nice. Overall, I enjoyed listening to it and found it very interesting and informative.	2002-02-20
US	51289506	R1Q591ODQB2YL3	086568149X	52184351	Jeet Kune Do: Its Concepts and Philosophies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A short book with much information.	This book details Paul Vunak's discoveries in Jeet Kune Do in terms of philosophy and how to apply Bruce Lee's concept of JKD to one's martial arts training. I think Vunak's experience through his various instructors and real life experience makes him a great person to explain these in understandable language. One thing I wish he would have done more of was explain how one can train some of the attributes. He explains them well, but he could have given more examples of how to train them. That would have made this book even better than it already is.	2002-02-04
US	51289506	ROZTZM8RGBSG	0735609179	427060350	Winning Chess Tactics	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well written with good examples.	I read this book after reading several others in his series. Yasser Seirawan takes a topic which is often dealt with very technically and makes it understandable to the beginner and intermediate player. My personal view on tactics is that players should read several texts to get different author's views and examples. This is a great one to either start with, or perhaps review a theme. Mr. Seirawan is a great player and his writing shows his skill in teaching as well.	2002-01-11
US	51289506	R2P6JH1TB3N4LF	0897500482	891672634	Tao of Jeet Kune Do	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This book helped me grow personally through the years.	As there are many reviews, I just wanted to add my personal experience with this book. I purchased this book when I first started martial arts (Tae Kwon Do and Filipino martial arts). It was interesting and had much good stuff. Seven years later, and a couple weeks ago, I started reading it again--5 minutes here, 10 minutes there. My view is very different now! Bruce Lee's notes and insights have a new meaning for me as I have a different perspective gained by my experience. In any case, it has continued to inspire and motivate me, as well as giving me hints for certain nuances in my training. Get this book ASAP and browse it. They are Bruce's personal notes, so you can read them a little at a time and gain knowledge each time. Let those little tidbits of wisdom rattle around your subconscious mind for a while, maybe seven years like me. The pick the book up again. The understanding and enlightenment you receive will be like a lightning bolt! Then perhaps you too will write a positive review like mine.	2002-01-11
US	51289506	R18E7X9L69O8Z1	0953176622	942566887	Jun Fan Gung Fu: Seeking the Path of Jeet Kune Do	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent foundation for learning Jun Fan Gung Fu!	Although I don't think someone can learn martial arts just from a book (as opposed to a qualified instructor), I believe this book comes pretty close as it gives great explanation of techniques and principles in laying the groundwork of Jun Fan Gung Fu. He discusses material in a progressive sequence starting with Footwork, and ending with the Five ways of attack in Jun Fan. Besides the very good pictures and good explanation of techniques and concepts, Kevin Seaman also provides excellent partner and solo training drills and tips so the student has ways to train the techniques presented in the book. Overall, if you are studying Jun Fan Gung Fu or Jeet Kune Do, or want to learn some good basic concepts to supplement your current training, I feel this book would be a great addition to your library.	2002-01-05
US	51289506	ROUFMT60WEYLL	0953176630	210856611	Jeet Kune Do: The Principles of a Complete Fighter	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good book with a variety of concepts and drills.	Ron Balicki is an accomplished martial artist who demonstrates different aspects of training from his vast experience. I think this book is for martial artists who have some experience in the martial arts. I say this because he doesn't explain details behind moves and techniques, but instead giving the overview with photographs and short descriptions of the drills, which implies that a practitioner has knowledge of the basic moves. I enjoyed the variety of drills for focus mitts and weapons which I already practice with, so it gave me new ideas or new ways of looking at old ideas. I particularly liked his concepts for multiple attackers, which many martial arts classes do not spend much time on. He also gives an excellent overview and interpretation of Bruce Lee's concept of Jeet Kune Do. Overall, a good book, but I would have liked a little more material in areas of training which he mentions in the book, including heavy bag work, and more detailed ground concepts. However, I think Mr. Balicki intends to give a taste (not a comprehensive program) of different aspects of training, and is completely successful in this purpose!	2001-12-27
US	51289506	R10UHVXZ5ZYBHI	1857441966	263410673	Opening Repertoire for the Attacking Player	Books	2	9	13	N	Y	Okay, but not good book.	My problem with this book is that some of the recommendations in this book are very complex defenses which beginning and intermediate players might find difficult to use. They are very tactical, and Gufeld does little explanation of them. There is some analysis, but many times he will just attach a game fragment and say who's better with no explaination of why or what to do. He gives brief strategy summary at the beginning of each section, but as an intermediate player (USCF Rating of 1650) I find it difficult to use these recommendations in my own play, because there is little explaination of the variations. If you use the recommendations, you may need to do your own research and analysis (which you should do anyway), but isn't part of a repertoire book's job to do some of the homework for you? What it does do is give a repertoire for most major defenses so that a player does not have to pick one himself. My best use for it was to look at the sections and find my own choices for variations and use the sections as a list of defenses I need to prepare for using other sources.	2001-12-27
US	51289506	R12BC7PMKSTG23	158160050X	449714202	Taking It to the Street : Making Your Martial Art Street Effective	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Honest talk about martial arts and street effectiveness.	Marc MacYoung provides martial artists with some guidelines on how to make their martial arts more effective for self-defense. He actually presents techniques and more importantly, some principles, which have helped me understand some throwing and defensive techniques in the martial arts I study. I think the book is good overall, but I wish he would have made more recommendations about drills and exercises which he alludes to in the book. His chapters on specific techniques I think are better learned from a video or qualified instructor, but he does an okay job of illustrating the principle behind the technique, so martial artists who have similar techniques in their martial arts can adapt them more easily. Because of this, I think this book is best for those who have a little martial arts experience. The most important thing that martial artists can get from this book is the spirit and principles behind making martial arts street effective, and acknowledging the fact that many of the martial arts schools today do not teach self-defense effective methods.	2001-12-07
US	51289506	R8THX7LWE2TJN	0878223746	877612482	(Out of Print)Skillstreaming the Elementary School Child: Program Forms (Book and CD)	Books	5	17	23	N	Y	Sound theory and clear explanations for the school worker.	I think this book, an update of the original which I have also read, gives clear and precise instructions for creating prosocial behavior groups and interventions. The principles behind the model espoused in this book are sound and effective. In the short time I have used this model in my groups, I have seen some slight but noticeable behavior changes in the students.	2001-12-07
US	51289506	R1VQTESY9ZZXCI	1884822312	190289433	Chess: 5334 Problems, Combinations, and Games	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Every Player Should Have This Book!	One of the best ways to improve one's play is to understand and see tactics over the board. To do this, one needs to practice solving problems. The more you do, looking to see all of the variations and nuances of a position, the better you'll get. When I got this book, I just started plowing into it. There are so many problems of differing motifs and difficulty. The results were immediate, I started winning more games through combinations. And I don't miss as many easy opportunities as I did. Improving takes work, and this book gives you material to work on!	2000-12-06
US	51289506	R2G5QMVDZ4GGL7	0812922654	944242244	Best Lessons of a Chess Coach	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Great Instruction!	This book uses many different methods to help you learn chess. The game commentary and socratic method is very useful. Also, the book gives supplementary games for you to review on your own. Finally, there are lists  of guidelines and advice learned from the games. This game helped me think  more and improve.	1999-08-24
US	51289506	REG9GE5DI799P	0735606048	579848058	Winning Chess Strategies	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Great Book on Strategy and Positional Play!	After studying openings, tactics, and checkmating techniques, I found this book to be what I needed to learn how to get from the opening to the endgame and how to set up for tactics. GM Seirawan's entertaining style is  fun to read and study.	1999-07-27
US	51289506	R136RYWG07P4DS	0735605149	196156854	Winning Chess Openings	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Good Book on Openings for Beginners.	GM Seirawan entertains and educates on many common openings and the ideas behind the openings in this book. I enjoyed it because as a beginner, I want to know what openings he likes and what his experiences are with the  openings. I think more experienced players may find the information basic,  but it's perfect for beginners.	1999-07-27
