US	51287148	RO7LTHI95Q5HV	0553383051	151270526	Fevre Dream	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Reprint of a unique vampire tale.	I first discovered Martin in his recent fantasy work, \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\".  Having an interest in vampire literature, I dicovered his out of print book, \\"Fevre Dream\\".  It took awhile to track down a copy, but it was well worth the effort.  Now that it's been reprinted, I hope that many others will be exposed to this unique take on the vampire myth. <br /> <br />The setting is perfect, the Mississippi River during the steamboat era... New Orleans.  The descriptions are less clinical, and much more 'sensory'.  You can quite easily imagine being in the scenes described.  The vampires in the book are given a more 'natural' feel than in most vampire myths and in many ways this adds to the horror of the story.  Make no mistake, this is a horror novel.  It is dark and at times very hard to read due to the imagery which oftentimes is made more shocking due to focusing on a different sense than would be expected. A sound or smell instead of sight. <br /> <br />The sideplots are almost as compelling as the overarching one, such as the attempts to make the steamboat of the story a famous name on the Mississippi.  Martin has a knack for ending a story with an indelible image (something he did in \\"Dying of the Light\\", also a recent reprint), and he has done so here. <br /> <br />Very highly recommended.	2004-11-29
US	51287148	R7PLC1BZ4PH2T	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Very fun book, but not his best...	Well, I did it again.  I didn't get into &quot;Star Trek&quot; until &quot;Star Trek III&quot;.  The first Star Wars movie I saw was &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot;, followed by &quot;Empire Strikes Back&quot;.  I read &quot;Life, the Universe, and Everything&quot; first in the Hitchhiker's Trilogy (of what, 5 books now?)  I picked up &quot;Lost in a Good Book&quot; at the recommendation of a friend, even though I was unable to get &quot;The Eyre Affair&quot; at the same bookstore (it was showing in the database, but not on the shelves... oddly appropriate for the series).<br />What this reinforced was the following:<br />A) &quot;Lost in a Good Book&quot; was an _excellent_ novel.<BR>B) &quot;The Eyre Affair&quot; is merely a very good one.<br />It seems that Jasper wasn't quite sure of the writing style he wanted to use in &quot;The Eyre Affair&quot;, and while he doesn't do it often, there are switches to 3rd person viewpoints involving people not near the usual 1st person protagonist.  These are somewhat jarring as I prefer a book to stay in the same voice throughout.  The overall tone is a bit more serious also than his second book, and I found I much preferred the breezier style in &quot;Lost in a Good Book&quot;.<br />Nevertheless, &quot;The Eyre Affair&quot; is a wonderfully fresh and unique style that isn't categorized easily.  Alternate history, time travel, detective thriller, humor, romance elements, horror, are all present.  The fun part of it all is that even someone who hasn't read the books/poetry referred to in the story can still somehow understand what the 'inside jokes' might be (warning, spoiler in the next part):<br />*SPOILER*<BR>For instance, Thursday Next changes the ending of Jane Eyre by her actions within the book itself.  Well... she changes it in _her_ world, with camps falling into &quot;The change was for the better&quot; or those who despise her because of it.  In actuality, she changes it to match with our reality.  Yet, even never having read Jane Eyre, I somehow got the impression that that's what happened.<BR>*END SPOILER*<br />Simply put, in spite of some growing pains for the series, this is still a quite fun novel which can be enjoyed on a variety of levels.	2004-04-19
US	51287148	RQST7XDDWDH2Y	0201485672	532976631	Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great book on a variety of levels.	First, a bit of information about where I'm coming from.  10 years ago I came away with a Computer Science minor but never really utilized the programming skills I'd learned in any of my subsequent jobs (Marine Biology).  However, I did dabble in teaching myself C++ and loved the concept of Object Oriented programming.  Recently I landed a job working with IDL (Interative Data Language - NOT Corba IDL) which was originally designed to create quick 2D and 3D plots and images for scientists.  While still primarily a scientist's language, it has been adding more and more features, including Object Oriented support.<br />So this means, I'm now a programmer.  My new boss really wants almost everything done as an OO design, which I was more than happy about.  However, much of my work will be to modify/extend old code which is in every form from procedural to pseudo-OO (uses a few objects here and there but is still mostly procedural).  I originally convinced the boss to pick up this book by pointing out the section on converting Procedural Code to OO.  Turns out this section is very short, but gives an overview of how to do it using the other refactorings in the book.  So it's helpful there.<br />One place I haven't seen it mentioned in many reviews is the benefit this book can have for someone new to programming professionally (note, I do NOT mean to imply that this is a beginner programmer's book, you should have a good understanding of OO programming already).  It has already had many benefits for me:<br />1. Smells in Code: I love this section.  As everywhere in the book, it applies directly to poring through old code and picking out the 'smells' present that indicate poorly structured  code.  But it's also as valuable in pointing out what to watch for as you write a new program.  The book does advocate a design/refactor approach, and this is the best example of it.  As you design, you notice one of the 'smells' creep into your code, and you can refactor it then and there.  This has been of immense value to me in my first programming projects.<br />2. Advocation of testing: I already have Kent Beck's &quot;Test Driven Development&quot; and utilized some concepts from it, but &quot;Refactoring&quot; also talks about testing, and it seems to flow much better for me in Fowler's book as far as understanding how to use tests.  It 'clicked' when he mentioned that most of the time spent creating a program wasn't design/programming, but rather tracking down a bug.  Combining quick and frequent tests on new refactorings (or just new bits of code added in) focuses the programmer very swiftly on just what went wrong.  The longest I've ever spent puzzling out a bug so far on my first major project has been 30 minutes, and that's because I forgot a return statement.  As soon as I got up, took a break and sat back down it was obvious.  Most other bugs have been along the lines of &quot;run the test, watch it crash, fix within 2-5 minutes&quot;.<br />3.Ideas on how to structure code I haven't written yet: Maybe &quot;Design Patterns&quot; is a better book for this, but everytime I've looked at it, it overwhelms me.  &quot;Refactoring&quot; somehow seems to put into focus more clearly how to fix a problem that's stumping me.  For example, the program I'm working on requires two ways of creating a new object.  One creates it directly from a file, one creates it from a GUI where all data is entered, and then added by hitting the 'create' button.  I got the 'initFromFile' constructor working nicely and then proceeded to start work on the 'initFromGUI', recreating most of the steps until I hit the point where the object had to create a linked list based on the number of swimbladders (each of which is an object in the linked list) within the main fish object.  Long story short, I thought about creating the object separately and just passing it in as a parameter, but besides requiring more knowledge of the object the GUI was working with than I wanted the GUI to have, it also led to one Init call with a huge list of parameters).  So I flipped through &quot;Refactoring&quot; and found &quot;Duplicate Observed Data&quot; which described the exact problem I was trying to solve and goes into enough detail on using the 'Observer' Pattern that I was able to get my code to work in a much cleaner fashion than I would have otherwise.<br />4. Teaches the 'obvious' to new programmers: Some of the complaints I've read involve &quot;Well, any real OO programmer knows this already, it's a waste of space to include that.&quot;  In my case this is not necessarily true.  Some of the refactorings are indeed obvious to me.  Others that are obvious to others are not obvious to me.  Even more important, you will see some of these 'obvious' things in previously created 'legacy' code, and this book will allow you to spot it.	2004-02-13
US	51287148	R3NV6A6AC9HBE2	0672318539	423037004	The Object-Oriented Thought Process	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Could turn on some lights but could also be dangerous.	Note: Apparently this review is also on the page for the 2nd edition of this book, which was not what I intended (Amazon appears to have added it to the 2nd edition page).  This review is ONLY for the 1st edition of the book.    When I first bought this book, hoping for a synopsis of Object Oriented Programming's concepts to supplement some of the C++ Primers I had, I was pleased enough with the purchase.  I read a few chapters, and they summarized more or less what I'd gathered Object Orientation was about in the various C++ primers I owned.  At the time, I only dabbled in C++ and wasn't programming as part of my job.  Had I rated the book then, I probably would have given it a 4.    Since that time, I've played with C++ more, and read more perspectives on OOP, mostly from books like Thinking in C++.  Recently I landed a new job, working with IDL (a programming language with some MATLAB similarities but almost wholly different syntax, used primarily in science).  This language has recently added some OO constructs to it, news which I was very glad to hear and was a major reason for me applying for the position.  However, I felt a bit rusty with some of the OO concepts, so I went back to this book... and was disappointed.    Part of the problem was hinted at before.  Much of the helpful information in the first few chapters is the same as what you get in primers of languages that focus on the OO methodology.  Sometimes this information is more spread out in these primers, so at least it's nice to have all of the basics together in one place.      Another problem I had was with the order of presentation.  The first few chapters throw the basic spectrum of OO concepts at you.  And in fact, each of  the first few chapters discusses the same concepts over and over again.  It's like starting to dig a hole here.. then jumping over there to start a hole, etc.  Eventually you jump back to the first hole, dig a bit more, jump to the next, etc.. To me this is a disconcertingmethod of presenting information.  I would have preferred the first chapter be the overview of everything (planting the flag at each spot you want to dig a hole), but then each additional chapter focus on one of those subjects, and dig until the bottom (in terms of how deep the book presents the information, not meaning it should go into a whole lot more detail) is reached.  The first chapter should be enough to link the concepts together instead of constantly attempting to do so.      Well, others might disagree with what I like in 'style' for books, but there are other problems.  Many of the examples end just a bit too early with the 'take home messages' implied and not explicitly stated.  The writing style feels disorganized.  For example, quite late in the book it's mentioned that Inheritance is one of the Three Cornerstones of OOP along with Encapsulation.  I couldn't remember what he said the third cornerstone was, so I went back to the front and searched... Nowhere are the three cornerstones (the third he mentions a bit after the point I mentioned above, Polymorphism) pointed out.      Finally, there's the problem that he doesn't seem to understand himself some of the concepts he talks about.  I'll give him the benefit of the doubt and say that this might be because he's trying to simplify things for the reader, but to me it just made it more confusing.  The classic example is one already mentioned here, but in one sidebar he says \\"Sometimes a distinction is made between the words 'aggregation' and 'composition'.  However, in this book we will consider composition and aggregation as the same thing.\\"  Well, first of all, the distinction is a valid one, but if he wanted to simplify things he should have phrased it more like, \\"There are different kinds of 'composition', however we will be focusing mainly on one, called 'aggregation'.\\"  The problem is exacerbated two chapters later when suddenly he changes his mind and talks about 'association' and 'aggregation'as two different kinds of composition.    One other area that it seemed like he was a bit confused, or trying to overly simplify a discussion, was when talking about 'interfaces' versus 'abstract classes' in Java.  He uses the example of an interface called 'nameable' and proceeds to say that it doesn't follow the \\"is a\\" rule for inheritance.  Instead he drops the \\"a\\" and says:    \\"A dog is nameable\\"  \\"A lizard is nameable\\"    My instant reaction was, \\"Well, a dog is a nameable thing, and a lizard is a nameable thing.\\"  He then implies in a warning that another reason why an interface is different than an abstract class is because an interface doesn't provide implementation, but an abstract class does.  In reality, an abstract class can be created that has no implementation either, which means both an abstract class and an interface can rely completely on a subclass to provide it.  I'm not quite sure why he tries to make a distinction between implementation and behavior which to me confuses the issue more.  And finally, after making the point that an interface doesn't follow the 'is a' property, he then says (one paragraph later),    \\"How do we know for sure that interfaces have a true is-a relationship?  In the case of Java, we can let the compiler tell is...\\"    and proceeds to show the code that proves it.    A final problem for me is some examples don't match the diagrams.  The worst for me is the BlackJack example where he suddenly throws a D_Player object into the Use Case diagrams.  Now, I assume that this is just a Player Object created to represent the dealer (ie, not a SubClass), but every other object is specifically the name of a class.  He never mentions D_player in any of the descriptions.    My overall conclusion of the First Edition of this book is that it could have been organized better and really provides not much more than some of the better Primers in various OO languages.  It still would have been useful had the material been clear, coherent, consistent and correct.  In some ways the book is still useful, but I would recommend picking up a good Primer that talks about OO fundamentals also, instead of this one.  I know there is a second edition out, and if I get the chance I will pick it up to see if these problems have been ironed out.  If they are, I would give the book a 4 as a nice, quick overview of the OO Thought process.  If they aren't, I'd say \\"Programmer Beware\\".	2004-01-29
US	51287148	R1RHU3F2Q4MXF5	1889182591	861728390	Lands of Mystery (Dungeons & Dragons: Kingdoms of Kalamar Adventure)	Books	1	7	8	N	Y	Don't bother.	Those who've read my reviews know that I give very few 1's (even less than I give 5's). This book earned it due to very sketchy adventures, numerous typographical errors and the limited use of the book. <br />The production quality is good. Decent maps, nice cover and back and nice drawings for the ImageQuest system of showing your players things that their characters see. They're all consistent in look which can't be said for some of their other adventures. I do have a significant problem with some of the drawings though in that many of the last two adventures' drawings have hidden things in them that your players can spot instead of having to make spot checks. In some cases it's suggested to not make spot checks if the picture is shown, in others it's suggested both the check and the picture... I really dislike this, it makes the player, and not the character, the primary searcher for hidden things.<br />The biggest problem is that none of the adventures link with each other (except for the last - for highest level characters of all of them, and that one links back to the first adventure... which would be far too easy then without significant modification). Instead, they link to other modules produced by Kenzer & Co. <br />The errors start right at the beginning in the credits, one of the modules isn't listed with the author, instead the 4th adventure listed is one from \\"Harvest of Darkness\\". In other cases a priest of a god will be referenced by the god's name and not his, in some cases a NPC is referenced by his race name and not his own. Just some sloppy editing involved.<br />I'll review each adventure briefly: (spoilers below)<br />1. The Sirocco's Kiss: This looks to be an extremely short adventure if the characters pick up on the clues in an opening encounter (or have read the Monster Manual and know the trick to killing the creature they face).  If they don't figure out the right combination, the DM will end up killing his first level party, or 2nd level part, or... up to probably an 8th level party.  Basically this adventure seems designed to flesh out the seaport district of Bet Seder (5 1/2 pages for the adventure, 9 1/2 pages on the background).  The background is well written and interesting but there's not much advice how to use the info to flesh out the adventure itself. Individual rating: 1 (Way too easy, or way too hard... and in most cases, way too quick).  3 If you base your adventures in Bet Seder for awhile.<br />2. In Too Deep: This is basically 5 separate tiny adventures in a very non-descript, tiny town.  Some minor connections between a couple of adventures, but the 'adventure' feels quite disjointed.  It's a few decent ideas, none of which are fleshed out beyond synopsis level (kind of a summary of the whole module actually).  Individual rating: 1.<br />3. Night of the Rot Lord: This one is just rotten.  It seems more designed to create some 'spot the monsters' in the ImageQuest illustrations, provide 4 pages detailing some diseases of Kalamar, only 2 of which are actually in the adventure (compared to 1 page actually detailing the encounters of the adventure... and 4 pages of NPC/place info).  Numerous errors in this one.. Characters being called by the name of their god, being called 'him' when it's a female, having names mixed up, and also right in the beginning the village is described as having no mayor.. And then one of the NPCs is the mayor.  Pitiful. Individual Rating: 0.<br />4. Unguarded Hoard: By far the best of the lot.  The characters get to interact with a village protected by a Gold Dragon rumored to have been killed.  The characters have some interesting encounters on the way and there's a possibility of ending up with a powerful ally depending on how the adventure plays out.  However, numerous uses of \\"spot the monster\\" in the ImageQuest pics, and a pretty pathetic directive to the DM to use the character sheets of the players to create an enemy that almost exactly matches them (even to the extent of simply using those sheets for the foes) with no reasoning as to _why_, just that it should be an even matchup. There are 9 pages describing the city of Bromish, 6 for the adventure itself.  Individual rating: 2 (good idea, lazy execution).<br />This book felt like the editors just grabbed random adventure ideas, slapped a minor layer of polishing on it, and then added information to flesh out the Kalamar setting.  If you want info on diseases, or two of the cities in the setting, then it might actually be worth it. If you want 4 well done adventures, buy something else.	2002-09-02
US	51287148	R1Q8OWG72TUGK6	1889182540	730857168	Harvest of Darkness (Dungeons & Dragons: Kingdoms of Kalamar Adventure)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Four adventures, somewhat uneven quality.	This is one of Kenzer &amp; Co's multiple adventures in one module, book.  I have not yet played through any of them, or DMed them, and spoliers may follow:<br />First, the production quality is good, a moody looking cover which you can see above, and a nice description of the module on the back including a map of the area of Tellene where it occurs.  Each adventure has hooks to lead it to the next.  The maps of the encounter areas are clear, if somewhat bland.  Per usual, there are some Imagequest pictures in the back to show the players at given times, and they're good if uneven in presentation and style.  <br />I will briefly review each adventure within the module, spoilers follow:<br />1. Sometimes They Come Back: This adventure is designed for beginning characters.  The characters have good hooks to draw them in to exploring a village with numerous disappearances.  They uncover a plot by a group of dark priests, seem to win the battle and then just at the point that an adventure would normally wind down, they discover that it's just beginning.  This adventure includes an encounter with a powerful creature that can become a minor ally.  The story is a good one, and well written.  A couple of the 'to be read to your characters' boxes include applying moods to the players which I dislike, but the DM can easily enough modify the text.  Individual rating: 5.<br />2. Temple of the Bronze Flame: A phoenix is stolen from a village and taken to a temple of a fire cult.  The PCs must rescue it.  The hooks are somewhat weak, including those from the previous adventure (one of which requires a specific event to occur) but the DM should be able to flesh things out.  The &quot;to be read&quot; boxes are better than the previous adventure, focusing on what the characters see and experience, rather than what they feel.  The temple itself is full of traps and puzzles, including a couple that will be deadly if the players don't correctly decipher the clues.  The number of creatures and opponents is quite low.  This could be an extremely deadly adventure if the players aren't used to such an environment and should be used with care, but it's quite interesting and well written.  Individual Rating: 4<br />3. A Foe In Need: This adventure is really more like a mini-adventure.  It is probably finishable in one night unless the DM fleshes out the encounters.  Unexpected allies, a deceitful 'friend' and an unforseen encounter along with a mix of different creatures makes it interesting.  However the players may feel cheated since much of why things occur will remain unexplained and the main villain will probably not be a recurring villain, unless the players decide to make him so.  The adventure is quite railroaded (while the above two are also, the players seem to have more freedom), and quite short.  The backstory is interesting, but again, most of it won't come out in a usual running of it.  The plot hooks are decent and the writing good, but it feels too much like a vignette rather than a story.  Individual rating: 3 <br />4. The Hungry Undead: The adventure hook is dramatic enough, and can be combined with the previous adventure to make the ending of the previous more satisfying.  The PCs will discover a formerly secret place designed to protect people against the creatures within, which are an unusual variant on vampires.  Basically a small dungeon with only one or two types of creatures and some traps, but some interesting locations within the dungeon.  Compared to the first two, the story feels stale and the dungeon itself is somewhat boring.  Individual Rating: 3<br />The module expands on some areas of Kalamar and provides some good continuing advice for adventures thereafter.  The villain in part 3 could become a truly fun recurring villain down the road.	2002-09-02
US	51287148	RE672RH8BWLER	0786916141	866922638	The Apocalypse Stone (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Adventure)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Interesting module but not quite apocalyptic.	Warning, spoilers beneath:<br />I've recently gotten back into AD&amp;D, and picked up this module because of the unique premise.  End the world and make your players responsible for it!  The problem with the module however is that the players have very little hint of what's coming.  Yes, I understand that this is what makes the module such a shock and great RP experience, but as written the reason the apocalypse comes about is unknown to anybody but a select few.  To me, this means that the players won't have a sudden realization of a prophecy coming true, or realizing what an old myth really means.  Instead, they're tricked into destroying the world and have absolutely no way to realize what happened until the final revelation (yes, they do get hints as to what's happening, but not why until then).  I feel it would be much more effective to start a campaign with the idea that the world could be ended with this adventure, and then give hints through mythology or prophecy that slowly lead up to it.  <br />That said, this is one of the better written AD&amp;D adventures I've run across.  There's little in the way of dungeon crawls, and a lot in the way of role playing, epic confrontations and last minute attempts at redemption while a world collapses (the final battle kind of reminded me of the beginning of &quot;Superman&quot; when Krypton exploded.. only with an epic fight going on in an attempt to stop it.  The encounters are truly fiendish and dark, with hints on how to make them even darker. Again however, this might be too jarring for players who've played a campaign up to this point in a more usual style.  Also, some of the challenges the players face have very little way to know what the correct choice is, and if they choose wrong they have no chance to even attempt to save the world.<br />I find the concept of this adventure quite intriguing, and many of the ideas can be used, but I feel it will work better if this endpoint is considered a possibility in a campaign that's just beginning, rather than saying &quot;Well, nothing left to do with these characters, time to end the world with a bang.&quot;	2002-09-02
US	51287148	R2QMJWMZ4N3VJ7	0786916400	543234143	The Sunless Citadel (Dungeons & Dragons Adventure, 3rd Edition)	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Quality production, fun setting...	Warning, spoilers follow:<br />First let me say I haven't played this module, or DMed it.  The production quality is quite good, glossy colorful cover, clear and nicely drawn maps, evocative black and white drawings throughout.<br />The adventure itself allows for a wide number of plot hooks for a starting group, and supposedly leads into one of the later modules in this series which is a nice touch.  The final encounter is quite interesting, a mix of different types of creatures in an unusual location (a grove underground).  The sunken temple is an unusual dungeon too, and there are areas that have been controlled by goblins and kobolds as well as areas that have been unexplored by anyone in ages.. a nice mix.    There are nasty traps, the ability to help kobolds out and make the temple easier to handle, prisoners to release, and even an unusual dragon encounter.  As an opening module for a group wanting 'traditional' style AD&amp;D adventuring, I highly recommend this module.  While there may be too many encounters with the kobolds and goblins, there's enough here to reward the party that takes their time to explore and roleplay instead of killing everything in sight.	2002-09-02
US	51287148	R1A6Q4F870Y053	1565044851	697324911	Crucible of Freya (Sword and Sorcery)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Interesting start, kind of repetitive, but good intro.	This module is intended as an introduction to AD&D for new players and DMs.  I have not yet played or DMed it, and there will be spoilers below:<br />The production quality is uneven.  Nice glossy, colorful cover and back which you can see above.  The maps are amateurish in look, and the text is easy to read with good use of whitespace.<br />There's a lot of fleshing out the adventure and the area surrounding the adventure.  What I really like is that there are areas that will likely [terminate] a low level party if they go exploring, but most of those offer a way out or a way to solve the problem (even if it's just to run, a healthy thing to learn to do for players).  No coddling of the players here.. I like it.  Though there is one way for the DM to help out the players, but it's through a natural part of the module, not fudging a die roll because the players are in over their heads.  The village and NPCs are well fleshed out, with good characters having some not so good qualities at times, and at times the PCs and the NPCs will conflict even if on the same side.  Because the players can give in to the NPC wishes or do what they think is best, it gives the illusion of choice to the players in an otherwise simple adventure.  The actual encounters mostly involve one monster (humanoid actually) race, unless the party explores where it shouldn't, and as such it can be fairly repetitive.  There's a secret area in the module that they can find, with a surprising twist if a fight doesn't actually occur, which shows that there isn't always a happy ending.  There's little in the way of puzzles, and no 'usual' dungeon.  The players can greatly affect the difficulty of one of the main battle depending on what they do... <br />>Overall, this is a good first adventure with plenty of opportunity for roleplay, conflict and battle.  Almost every possibility is spelled out for the DM, and there are numerous ways to continue on from the end of the adventure.  Recommended.	2002-09-02
US	51287148	R216BCY3EYQCV5	1588461564	770532943	Rappan Athuk: The Dungeon of Graves--The Upper Levels (Sword & Sorcery)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Delivers what it promises.	Since you can read the introduction in the \\"Look Inside\\" section, I won't say much about it except that Necromancer Games is going for an old style dungeon romp with monsters, puzzles and traps (including instant kill ones - ie, if you don't escape the trap, you're dead.. no save attempts).  The graphics on the cover are quite nice and the black and white drawings inside are very well done.  There's good use of white space in the text, making it easy enough to read.  The maps however are below average. They're small, with no grids or size scale and hard to read.  These problems are fixed if you log onto their site and download new maps, however this shouldn't have been a problem in a module that's otherwise of high quality.  In addition, you can download more information about the wilderness and a special extra encounter that harkens back to a 'classic' (supposedly) module encounter from 1st Edition rules.  This special encounter is now downloadable without having to dig up the codeword, since it's right on the site, and looks to be a fun addition. <br />Before I go on, realize that I've only read, not DMed or played this adventure.  This is part 1 of a 3 part dungeon and includes the upper levels.  The nice thing about the dungeon is that it does not get incrementally harder as you move down it.  The players had better realize that sometimes it's better to run, since not all the encounters are tailored with an eye towards the probable strength of the party.  You can also travel between many levels, even skipping many in between, using certain routes.  No \\"one way to the previous level and one way to the next level\\" deals here.  This feels a lot more realistic (in spite of the claims by the authors that they want to go back to the good old days of illogical dungeons - I'm firmly convinced this was meant tongue in cheek as there is at least a nod towards logic in it).  Of course, this only works if you have all three modules.  There are some fiendish traps and strongmonsters, but puzzles are lacking.<br />One complaint I have is that the shaded text that's meant to be read to the players sometimes assumes you've gone through the dungeon a certain way and seen something referred to in the text (usually minor, like saying something along the lines of \\"The rubble in this room isn't quite as broken as that in both of the others.\\" when the players may have only moved through one room on the way in).  Also the shaded text sometimes assigns feelings to the PCs, a no no in my book.  These complaints along with the maps prevent me from giving it a 5 star rating, but if you want a decently priced, hack and slash dungeon crawl in the old style, this looks to be one of the better choices.	2002-09-01
US	51287148	R30LFSNYF5VXC9	1889182109	980923744	Geanavue: The Stones of Peace (Dungeons & Dragons: Kingdoms of Kalamar Sourcebook)	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	Odd mix of great, good and uneven writing/ideas.	Another of my large Kalamar purchase, this book initially impressed more than the Kingdoms of Kalamar sourcebook did.  In the end however, it got the same rating, and the same overall impression.  Nice, hung together well enough, lots of NPCs in good detail, but numerous irritations and inconsistencies dragged it down.  Worse, not one immediate idea for an adventure sprang to mind reading it.  This might be a lack of imagination on my part (I'll not so humbly say that this is unlikely), or more likely the kinds of adventures suggested by this book don't appeal to me.  <br />This book is an exploration of a city in the campaign setting, and follows the same feel in that the emphasis is far more on the politics rather than old ruins or monsters.  This is fine, but not quite what most people expect from AD&D.  The cover is a very nice picture of a stone and a fire giant fighting while adventurers watch behind small hills, and the city in the background.  Unfortunately, that's about all that these kinds of threats are seen, except in passing.  The underground sewers are detailed well, but most areas are given the same \\"rumors of treasures hidden in the walls\\" treatment.  <br />So the emphasis is on the people and their interactions.  The city overall is one with a very peaceful reputation.  You have five main groups, the Castle, the Guilds, the Nobles, the Priests and the common people.  The Castle and leaders seem mostly good, with the potential heir being somewhat weak, leading to worries as to what will happen if the Lord dies.  The guilds are builders, craftsmen, parcel carriers, etc, and basically well respected.  There are one or to evil guildmasters, but very little detailed as to if they have any real plans.  The Nobles are the most interesting group at first, as they're disliked by the commoners and Guilds alike.  But rather quickly it's obvious that most follow a pattern.. Leader of the house, the heir is almost always a young man or woman who either seeks adventure to make a name, seeks adventurers to provide a power base for when they become the leader, or weak/not interested in the job of being house leader.  One or two plots are laid out in fair detail, but they still didn't really grab me, and the sameness of each noble house got monotonous after awhile.  <br />The religions are primarily good or neutral, and the evil religions again follow a pattern of only a few followers, want to expand their powerbase in the city, preparing to do so but not yet... One religion is truly evil, with some fleshing out of the despicable practices of its leader, but this was only a blip in the monotony.  The shady dealings in the city are minimal and glossed over in the chapter devoted to this, because the town watch is so effective.  The section on adventures is quite thin, and almost nothing in it really grabbed me.<br />Another element of this book that I disliked were some writing style choices and inconsistencies.<BR>1. Names not always consistent between book, glossary (with page number where character is found) and the NPC list.<BR>2. Almost every paragraph had at least one word in quotes, sometimes needed but more than often not.. Example: \\"If being 'noble' accords him special privileges, he will shamelessly make use of them ... However, he knows very well that anyone who truly believes Talasaarans are 'better' than their fellow Geanavese...\\"  These quotes interrupt the flow of reading for me.<BR>3. The authors use city-wide versions of common words throughout (at least they do explain the meaning) but this is annoying when they're for words like street, corner, avenue, left (sinister) and right (dexter).  Again, it breaks up the flow.<BR>4. The walkthrough of the city switches from guide-book style of simple description to actual guide style (\\"Now, as we go down this street, we decide to turn in the sinister direction and...\\") multiple times.  Combined with huge amounts of quotes and city specific terms, plus including information already mentioned in the rest of the book, this chapter seemed a waste.<BR>5. Sometimes the book goes into great detail about specific plots and plans (well, all of a couple of them), and other times things that it would help the DM to know are merely mentioned and then left alone as something that \\"No one really knows.\\".  This seems inconsistent.<br />Ok, so lots of complaints.. It still gets a three for the high production quality and the wealth of NPCs and locations included.  The nits and sameness drag it down to just average.	2002-09-01
US	51287148	R38AGAWC9DGWX	1889182508	351259307	Kingdoms of Kalamar: Campaign Setting Sourcebook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	19	29	N	Y	Bland world, numerous nits drag it down.	I made the mistake of jumping into the Kalamar setting wholeheartedly, instead of a bit at a time.  If the rest of the products are equivalent to this sourcebook (I've only looked at one module so far, the Player's Guide is next), it will have been a very underwhelming purchase.  Let me note first, that I was hoping for a more coherent world than the Forgotten Realms, which I like, but with great mysteries of the world to explore.  The basic feeling you get from reading this sourcebook is that humans rule the continent that was previously controlled by dwarves, elves and hobgoblins.  Therefore, there should be lots of adventuring sites based on old civilizations.  Instead, most of the focus is on the current human kingdoms, their interactions, and a couple of elven/dwarven/hobgoblin nations.  Some geographical locations are mentioned as areas with high monster activity, but very few ancient cities or well known ruins.  The feeling is that Kalamar campaigns are more political in nature than the standard AD&D campaign.  I suppose this is good for some people, but not quite what I expect from AD&D.  Even so, the conflict between the nations is almost subdued.  There's lots of threats and insults and past animosity, but very little actual open hostilities.  This part (the various kingdoms) takes up most of the book.  Then there's a section on the religions which is nicely done, more detail is given than in the Forgotten Realms book for instance, but they left out the clerical domains (added to a website).  There's a section on language which seems mostly superfluous, unless you want to make codes for the players to decipher.  Appendices add calendar and constellation info which is actually nice, and a master chart of NPCs which is merely their class, level, race, location and sex.<br />One of the huge problems I found with the book was a variety of inconsistencies throughout.  Some poor grammar, relatively juvenile writing in places, terrible location names (I agree with people on RPGnet that it looks like they just made a random name generator).  The worst offenders though are that sometimes NPCs don't seem to be referenced in the back or information isn't complete (there's a reference to a bastard son of a king, I'm assuming.. but all it says is that he plans to make a name for himself and then force the king to acknowledge his lineage or pay him off.. it doesn't actually _say_ what his relationship to the king is, it's only because this appears immediately after the section detailing which son will take over the kingdom that I could make the inference).  Also, there's one case of a Necromancy spell of particularly nasty effects being attributed to a good aligned wizard.  Finally, quality control seems a bit lax in the Kalamar setting, one of their modules takes place in a town.  In the sourcebook, the town is shown as being under the protection of one city, and in the module it's under the protection of another one.<br />So, I gave it three stars anyway.  Part of this is for the exceptionally beautiful maps, and the small portions of the maps shown throughout for each region.  The production quality is high with nice black and white pictures throughout.  In spite of the inconsistencies and blandness, the world does hang together pretty well.  It's merely up to the DM to add the adventuring sites, old civilizations, etc if he/she wants to.  For those who want politically based campaigns, the setting will probably work very well.  For me, it just doesn't sow adventure/campaign ideas in my mind the way other sourcebooks have.h people on RPGnet that it looks like they just made a random name generator).  The worst offenders though are that sometimes NPCs don't seem to be referenced in the back or information isn't complete (there's a reference to a bastard son of a king, I'm assuming.. but all it says is that he plans to make a name for himself and then force the king to acknowledge his lineage or pay him off.. it doesn't actually _say_ what his relationship to the king is, it's only because this appears immediately after the section detailing which son will take over the kingdom that I could make the inference).  Also, there's one case of a Necromancy spell of particularly nasty effects being attributed to a good aligned wizard.  Finally, quality control seems a bit lax in the Kalamar setting, one of their modules takes place in a town.  In the sourcebook, the town is shown as being under the protection of one city, and in the module it's under the protection of another one.<br />So, I gave it three stars anyway.  Part of this is for the exceptionally beautiful maps, and the small portions of the maps shown throughout for each region.  The production quality is high with nice black and white pictures throughout.  In spite of the inconsistencies and blandness, the world does hang together pretty well.  It's merely up to the DM to add the adventuring sites, old civilizations, etc if he/she wants to.  For those who want politically based campaigns, the setting will probably work very well.  For me, it just doesn't sow adventure/campaign ideas in my mind the way other sourcebooks have.	2002-08-14
US	51287148	RQP5BLZWLVYKY	0201719347	98428590	Linux System Administration: A User's Guide	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Great for the 'non-idiot' or 'non-dummy'.	...<br />Simply put, this book is probably one of the best choices for a new user to Linux who has computer experience, and possibly previous UNIX experience.  I'm not sure how it would be as a beginner's book because I wasn't a beginner, but I think it would work well as a second book certainly.  Even for a beginner, most of the important parts of Linux are focused on.  The emphasis is on the basic areas that are important for the average user, or a small business system's administrator.  Topics include the file systems, how to do backups, how to set-up hardware (including my personal bugaboo - printers), how to manage users, some good security information, how to use the various GUIs, how to automate tasks, how to get started with programming, etc.  Areas like Apache, sendmail and nameservers are covered enough to get started with them, which is probably enough for the average user.  One of the strengths is that the book points out ways to use the command prompt and then at least two other (usually) ways to do the same thing with the two most popular windowing systems Gnome and KDE.  Another strength is that the book expects you to try things.  A topic is introduced, some basic ways to do things are shown and then usually at least one or two more advanced topics, followed by encouragement to explore.  There is no CD included, but numerous http links are given throughout.<br />This book is the one I open first when I have a question that needs answering and should be in most Linux bookshelves.  It's easy to read, with some humor sprinkled throughout. The author assumes you're intelligent, which is greatly appreciated.  Most of all, the book teaches ways for the home user or small business user to get the most out of their investment.	2002-08-12
US	51287148	R33CTBW9LA9TUL	0553575295	686145248	Sold Down the River (Benjamin January, Book 4)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An eye opener but somewhat unrealistic feeling.	I've read Hambly's fantasy and vampire books, and enjoyed them.  Looking through a bookstore in Maine before a research cruise for something different to read, I was glancing through the fiction section and noticed this book.  It sounded like an interesting read and since I'd never read anything dealing with a realistic depiction of American slavery, I picked it up.<br />Her writing is as well done as I expected, the descriptions of New Orleans, the plantation, the rural areas surrounding both, are all lush and/or disturbing.  The depiction of slavery itself seems spot on also, and learning some of the details of went on made it a hard read in spots, but worthwhile.  Her characters are all well differentiated from each other but there are quite a few of them to keep straight, I especially had difficulty with keeping track of everyone in the plantation owner's family for awhile.  Hambly is able to write tender scenes, graphically violent events and suspenseful moments with equal skill.<br />While the writing is excellent, the story itself is sometimes hard to swallow.  One of the keys to allowing the reader suspension of disbelief is to read the cover where it says &quot;A novel of suspense.&quot;  It's not really a mystery, as the clues tend to be discovered by the reader and the protagonist at the same time, with explanations as to what the clues mean fairly quickly.  The character is somewhat amazing, as other reviewers have mentioned.  Many of the scenes read like an action movie.  The character always manages to stumble across the major elements of the puzzle even if he's not actively looking for them.  This is all more easily forgiven if you realize what kind of a novel it is.  Still, it does take away some from the believability of the story which is why I can't give the novel 5 stars.  Because of its realistic depiction of slavery and great writing style though, it's on my highly recommended list.	2002-08-10
US	51287148	R3BIMJURGG16F	1889182605	227543298	Invasion of Arun'Kid (Dungeons & Dragons: Kingdoms of Kalamar Adventure)	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Interesting story but some possible problems in practice..	I'm going to stress that I haven't played this module/adventure with a group yet but I did read through the book. I have yet to be able to compare this with other 3E AD&D adventures because it's the first I've looked through (I have 3 other Kalamar modules and two other AD&D modules on the way). I'll review the components and then the story, leaving out spoilers as much as possible (be warned there may be a couple however):<br />Components: Nice glossy, colorful cover (which you can see easily enough here so I won't describe it as I started to.. habit from reviews elsewhere). I like the fact that, like the other Kalamar adventures, it shows in which portion of the Kalamar setting the adventure takes place, on the back cover. The book itself is 48 pages, 25 pages for the adventure, 13 pages for appendices (including NPC descriptions, the Brigand prestige class, new magic items and spells, maps, etc) and 10 pages using the ImageQuest 'innovation' which is the use of nicely done black and white drawings to give a visual image of some of the areas to the players. I have to say though, that I'm skeptical how useful they are, since players may assume that if they aren't shown something, that it's not important. <br />Story: Not a straight dungeon crawl. The players are encouraged to choose beginning level characters that have a history in the hamlet, and the nature of the story allows them to be 'movers and shakers' (big fish in a small pond). If not, they can just be passing through. Further, there are four different 'sides' in this story, all vying for control or at least certain parts of the hamlet. What the characters decide to do can certainly have a huge impact of the lives of the 150 or so residents. The way the characters go about things is reasonably open ended, and I like the background. <br />However, some of the story elements seem quite contrived (the Druid's maze), and part of the module hinges on attempting to keep the players split up during an important portion.  Since what happens to each character is supposed to be happening all at the same time, either the players have to ignore knowledge of what they hear happening to one character, or else they have to leave the room for extended periods. This seems a major problem for a module designed for beginning characters (and presumably a beginning DM). Also, while the module does give a couple of ways to conduct adventures for the characters afterwards, the kind of character that the module is designed for (leaders in a hamlet) isn't the easiest to continue adventuring with.  If you use this module, be sure the players want a more political campaign style, and be prepared to run one.   To sum up, it's a nice break from the usual dungeon crawl, but the idea has some flaws in the execution, particularly for a beginning group.	2002-08-09
US	51287148	R3GP0DEBPCBP2X	1576104257	272524009	Game Architecture and Design: Learn the Best Practices for Game Design and Programming	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Two thirds of the book was great for me.	This really is an odd book.  I would have given it 3 1/2 stars if  possible, but decided it was above average so stuck with 4.   This book serves a niche apart from the pure programming books that cover graphics or game design.  Specifically, it covers three areas:<br />1) Game design 2) Game Company Environment and Procedures 3) Game development<br />To me, the first and third elements were the most interesting. They described ways to inject originality and stability both into a game.  The discussion on Stone-Paper-Scissors interactions was very worthwhile though the explanations of the mathematical equations is somewhat rushed.  The application of design patterns to gaming was quite welcome.  <br />Part two simply didn't interest me, but then again, I don't plan to be part of a gaming company.  A description of working procedures, environment and personalities seems mostly of  interest to large projects.  It was interesting reading, but not useful personally to me.  This part also didn't seem to fit well with the rest of the book.	2001-05-14
US	51287148	RT3ETW747BAUN	0789716356	259893786	Using Visual C++ 6	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good book, but target audience is unclear.	This book is listed as being for the Beginning-Intermediate user level.  Unfortunately, the back doesn't include a disclaimer that you should already have a good working knowledge of C++ before picking up this book.  To be fair, this is stated in the Introduction but I quibble a bit with their offhand 'the user should have some knowledge of C++'.  This book has no real meaning to anyone unless they already know C++, both syntactically and conceptually.<br />I began teaching myself C++ a couple of years ago, and a year ago picked up Using Visual C++ 6.  I worked through some examples but I didn't have a clue how to combine the examples in the book with anything useful.  So I put it aside, for a few months while I worked through more C++.  When I picked it up again, everything seemed much clearer.  The examples are small, yet explain the topics of buttons, menus, dialog boxes, etc quite nicely.  Once you know C++ itself it's easy to see how Visual C++ can make your interface issues so much cleaner and easier.<br />Explanations are given where needed, examples are plentiful and are far from trivial, in spite of their shortness.  Often, the example teaches a basic concept, while introducing you to potentially helpful things later on.  The 'System Monitor' box created to show how to move things between edit boxes is a useful little program that keeps track of system memory and information.  The system information class it brings up is ancillary to the example itself, but was quite interesting in its own right.<br />I'll end with another quibble.  The steps to create the examples are not always complete.  Sometimes a renaming step is left out, which can create confusion when the author starts calling a button one thing when you thought you were supposed to just leave it as is.  It's usually pretty obvious what the problem is, but not always.<br />Short moral to this review.  The book's target is for users of an Intermediate level and will teach you very little about C++ itself.  For good design practices there are many other books out there.  For the basics of Visual C++ with a decent amount of meat thrown in, this book is more than adequate.	2001-04-06
US	51287148	R1BWBKRWSQCDWX	020170353X	401883413	Accelerated C++: Practical Programming by Example	Books	5	121	125	N	Y	Very effective alternative to other C++ books.	I'll start by saying that I probably would not have understood this book as well as I have, if I had not already been teaching myself C++ through other forums (primers and online).  The thing that most of these other forums have in common is that they start with the basics and build up slowly to the more abstract concepts.  The problems come during the switchovers (char* to string, procedural programming to object oriented, pointers to iterators, linked lists to containers, etc).  In almost all cases you learn the more basic, and paradoxically more difficult concepts first.  Then you have to 'unlearn what you have learned' in order to use the more advanced concepts.  <br />So what's different about this book?  It teaches a mix of syntax and 'advanced' concepts right from the beginning.  You learn the basics of loops and choice statements while using the Standard Library.  You also use them in specific examples that have real world uses (the grading program in the first few chapters for example).  The Standard Library is _easy_ compared to arrays, char*, rolling your own linked list, using pointers, etc.  Since it takes far less time to learn, you can be writing useful programs very quickly.  _Then_ the authors go on to describe some of the more 'basic' concepts, usually in terms of how they implement some of the ideas behind the Standard Library.  Since you have that understanding already, things like pointers become easier not only to learn, but to understand how they can be used.<br />I have one complaint about the book, and that's with the grading program, specifically how it appears in Chapter 4.  As written, it's very confusing to actually enter data to get it to run correctly.  A minor complaint though, considering how many times I thought to myself 'Aha!  This is what I could use to solve this problem I've been having.' Or 'Aha! So this is what those other books were trying to say.'<br />In a nutshell, it's a refreshing look at C++ and if not able to stand onits own, is a must have supplement for anyone learning or using the language.  At the very least, it's made me question the seeming SOP of giving the Standard Library one or two chapters and calling fundamentally harder concepts 'basic' and the concepts that make programming in C++ easier being considered 'advanced'.	2000-10-01
US	51287148	REJVOGSY27052	0446604240	635074349	Cloud's Rider	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Writing style mars intriguing concepts.	I realize now that this is the sequel to a previous work but confusion about previous events wasn't a problem for me.  I enjoy novels which have a different premise than the usual 'Farmboy realizes he has to save the world from the evil Foozle', and this certainly is quite unique, and quite interesting.  The interaction between horse and rider was both intriguing and distracting.  The jumping between what horse and rider feel in certain scenes was difficult to follow.  The climbing the mountain trail scene left me as mentally tired as the characters were because of the jumps in perspective, the length of the scene and the disjointed writing style that I had been warned about.  Maybe some people can handle the combination of long, densely written run on sentences mixed in with sentence fragments.  I found it distracted from the story, especially because I'd have to reread parts to understand exactly what was being said.<br />It truly is disappointing to me that I wasn't able to enjoy this book because unique and fresh concepts in the fields of fantasy and science fiction are hard to come by.  If she were paired with a writer with a consistent, clear style I'd snap up the book in a heartbeat but as it is, I can't recommend this novel.  The only thing that saves it from getting only 1 star is the uniqueness.	2000-09-24
US	51287148	RQDAP9HPXSN8Z	0671721429	628083859	The Spirit Ring	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Weird mix and not up to Bujold's standard	Warning: Minor spoilers...<br />Let me first start by saying that I've loved Bujold's other books (in particular 'Cordelia's Honor' and 'A Civil Campaign'.  I'd hoped to see something equally good in this book, but was sadly disappointed.  Her writing is still far above many authors for clarity and being able to paint a scene, but there are a few problems with the book that drag it down:<br />1) It's a fantasy novel set on Earth in medieval times.  I don't mind novels that do this _if_ they're consistent with what people believed at the time.  &quot;Blood Roses&quot; by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro is a good example.  Beliefs of the people were well represented and the only actual element that was included that _was_ supernatural were vampires, and then they were treated rather subtly.  Bujold has magic treated completely differently than it was back then.  Perhaps it's consistent with the world she creates, but the world is _not_ the historical middle/dark ages.  It would have been far less jarring to set it on another 'planet' and changing the names as necessary.  Every time a reference is made to the Swiss, or to the Lord Jesus, my immersion in the book is ruined.<br />2) Humor is lacking.  This is a somewhat major flaw for me, because the story itself isn't very gripping.  It's solid, but lacks true originality.  Her other books use humor to very good effect and the use here could have upped the rating a star.  I know it's supposed to be 'dark' fantasy, but that doesn't really fit Bujold's style it seems.<br />3) Confusing beginning.  In the Vor series, many characters are introduced, become intertwined, and political intrigue gets very involved.  This takes place over _many_ books.  In &quot;Cordelia's Honor&quot; two characters are initially introduced, and the other characters are introduced in bite sized amounts, letting the reader get used to them and their place in the saga.  In &quot;The Spirit Ring&quot;, an overwhelming number of characters are introduced veryquickly and they all _seem_ like they'll be important (especially to someone used to the Vor series and the amount of political intrigue).  Many of the characters are given just a brief mention and keeping them straight is difficult and ultimately unrewarding since they turn out to be not very important at all (or at least long lived).<br />All in all, the book is average.  Now, if Bujold were to write fantasy in the Vor style... (hmmmm, seems that the King of Thieves from 'Xena' would be the perfect prototype for a Bujold fantasy series).	2000-09-24
US	51287148	R3IS3UH01UJ93X	0201310155	761837196	Effective C++ CD: 85 Specific Ways to Improve Your Programs and Designs	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	The natural choice after learning the basics	Not a primer, not a tutorial, this book (CD-ROM actually) is invaluable for any C++ programmer.  Most books will touch on some of the pitfalls or meanings behind many different concepts.  Effective C++ focuses on particularly tricky concepts that could create huge problems for the inexperienced programmer.  I particularly like that the author doesn't simply state &quot;This is how you do it.&quot;  Instead, he usually states a problem, gives an 'obvious solution' (as in, how most programmers straight out of the average primer would write it) and then proceeds to explain how it will blow up in the programmer's face. This is followed by the 'why' of the resulting explosion, and finally how to fix it.<br />The writing style is lucid and even amusing at times, and the CD-ROM makes it easy to jump from related topic to related topic. While each piece can stand alone, taking the links in the book will allow more complete understanding of the concepts.<br />Finally, the addition of some magazine articles involving Exception Handling are excellent and possibly worth the price of the book by itself.	2000-09-22
US	51287148	RGGLYEX7QT3NN	0789720795	168779695	C++ from Scratch (The Jesse Liberty's from Scratch Series)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Good idea but needs to be supplemented with other material.	I like this book, I really do.  I love the idea of working on one project through the entire book.  Since I'd like to program games at some point, the project described in the book (a game based on Mastermind) is one that has some relevance to me.  There are problems however:<br />1) Not completely appropriate for the target audience - Jesse Liberty at least implies that this book will teach you enough to learn C++ and be able to program in it.  This is misleading.  In the beginning, things move smoothly, concepts are explained and understood.  As time goes on, more concepts are added and _usually_ incorporated into the growing project.  This is where things get difficult.  I much prefer understanding concepts in programs designed specifically to show how these concepts work before including them in a larger, 'holistic' project.  Yes, he does this in some cases, but usually I find these cases inappropriate.  Linked lists is one example he uses, and for the true beginner (or even one with programming experience) this is not an easy subject without some build-up.<br />2) Disjointed - The book is sort of like the 'X-Files' which has its 'Mythology' episodes (the ones that contribute to the overall story arc) and the 'One shot' episodes (monsters, weird occurrences unconnected with anything else).  In the book you have the main project and every so often Liberty will jump off to the side to discuss a feature of C++ in some detail (linked list mentioned above).  The effect is a disjointed one, often breaking the flow of understanding.<br />3) Restrictive - Probably my biggest worry is the effect on programming practices to a newcomer to C++.  The concepts are taught, not with an eye for overall understanding, but rather in how they can be used for one very specific program.  As new concepts are learned, often times the result is that a part of the project will be rewritten to use the new concept, leading to the impression that the earlier concept was obsolete and reallyhas no purpose.  I prefer being told not only how to use a concept, but when and where the concept is useful, what pitfalls there are, and see a few examples that show different ways to use the concept.  Otherwise it's too easy to have tunnel vision, seeing the concept as only useful in limited circumstances.<br />So... I said I liked this book, didn't I?  I do, but with a very specific recommendation for people who buy it.  Get both a general Primer (I recommend the Waite Group's C++ Primer Plus) and an intermediate text (Thinking in C++ is the one I recommend).  Learn C++ using those and then read C++ from Scratch  to see how many different concepts can fit together.  This book would probably have gotten 4 stars if I had not felt it inappropriate for its target audience.	2000-09-22
US	51287148	R2CT5X9U9F0ZSS	0139798099	513033391	Thinking in C++, Vol. 1: Introduction to Standard C++, 2nd Edition	Books	5	35	37	N	N	... and there was light.	I'm a Computer Science minor who mainly programmed in Pascal but had an object oriented background to some extent by programming on MUSHes (text based role playing games where anyone can create objects, and place code on them).  Obviously the syntax was quite different, but some of the 'systems' coded on these games are quite complex, so I was at least somewhat prepared to learn the concepts of OOP.  <br />After picking up a basic primer on C++ (Waite's C++ Primer Plus) and working through it, I discovered that while I'd learned the syntax, my understanding on how C++ operated on an object oriented level was still somewhat weak (which isn't to say that I didn't like the book, in fact I gave it 5 stars as a primer).  This isn't that surprising for me, the normal way I learn is to get the details, do the work and at some point in the future _something_ will trigger a 'aha!' in me and understanding will come.  <br />In Eckel's first descriptions of C++ as an Object Oriented language, that light came on.  In particular, when he described how inheritance could be used to replace a switch statement.  It was clearly stated and proved to be the norm throughout the book. Now I combine the two books, using Waite's for a first look at a concept, and following it up with Eckel for the 'understanding'.	2000-09-22
US	51287148	R33F3UCCTVY7MN	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hilarious and poignant both.	I've read Terry Pratchett before and consider him one of the funnier authors I've run across.  I had not read anything by Neil Gaiman but based on the recommendations here, I picked up the novel.  This book is... perfect for me on many levels.<br />It's funny without truly being irreverent.  While I don't believe in the Christian God, angels, demons, hell, armageddon, etc, I feel that if there _were_ such things that they'd be a lot closer to this book than they would be as taught in Sunday School.  There really is a serious message (or fifty) in this novel.  For me, it seemed to be that humans are in the end responsible for their own miseries and triumphs.<br />As a recommendation, read the prologue and if you're offended, don't bother reading.  Myself, I found the prologue indicative of the rest of the book: funny, yet with an ending that left an indelible image in my mind.	2000-09-22
US	51287148	R3BY9IYO924VU6	0201889544	298626172	The C++ Programming Language (3rd Edition)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Opinions on software design worth the price alone.	I bought this book shortly after picking up the Waite Group's C++ Primer Plus.  I have a Computer Science minor, but primarily programmed in Pascal before deciding to learn C++.  The book is not at all easy to read as mentioned in previous reviews but the amount of information combined with the author's (obvious) understanding of how best to use many features of the language makes the reading worth it.  DO NOT buy this book and expect it to be a Primer or a tutorial for a beginner.  If you do, then you have no business writing a bad review about it because this was not the intent of the book.<br />As mentioned, the writing style is disorganized and I haven't even tried to read it 'cover to cover'.  Usually what happens is I use the Waite guide to get my feet wet on a concept, jump to Eckel's &quot;Thinking in C++&quot; for a more in depth explanation and finally open up Stroustrup's book for the 'final word' on how and why to use the concept.<br />Finally, the last 3 chapters of the book are worth the price alone.  Sure, not all of the discussion will have personal relevance when he talks about software projects and the pitfalls, but there is a lot of a good advice and points to ponder.  Design is the hardest part of the programming process (or at least the most important) and it's nice to see a book that treats the subject with both authority and respect.	2000-09-21
US	51287148	R3QADGJN1EM16T	1571691626	206028059	The Waite Group's C++ Primer Plus	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Clear, concise, and easy to read while staying informative.	As a newcomer to C++ (and C), I had a previous background in Pascal and Quick Basic.  I had looked through numerous books on the subject before checking the reviews here, and decided to pick up this book as my basic  tutorial.  One of the things that decided the issue for me was the  apparantly extensive discussion of Classes and OOP.  <br />Having had the book  for 2 weeks now, and working through it while nailing down three jobs, I  have to say that the money was well worth it.  Complete examples are given,  along with notes for the programs, for each new command and concept.  The  notable exception has been on the early section covering data formats  similar to structures (Unions and Enumerations).  I found this section to  be confusing and thus skimmed it with hopes that they will be explained  later.<br />The exercises in the back of each chapter are actually fun, mainly  because they're manageable. As a side note, I do wonder how much material  in this book overlaps that of the Waite's Guide to OOP using C++, since I  am also thinking about getting that book.  Any comments on this would be  greatly appreciated (my e-mail is listed in this review).	2000-02-01
US	51287148	R2NU0C3I1IG7FZ	0886778492	874990469	3: Otherland: Volume Three: Mountain of Black Glass	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good... but it should have been ended in this volume.	Well, I have been greatly enjoying this series and I don't mind the character development that people have mentioned as being a problem.  I feel that the stories of the people themselves are as interesting as the  main plot (though some might very well see this as a problem).  The prose  is good and the plot complex.  In many ways it reminds me of Donaldson's  'Gap' series in the interweaving of characters with groups of power and  attempting not to be crushed by them.      However... Just as in the second  book, Williams managed to irritate me somewhat.  In the second, I was not  pleased with the jarring attempt to keep people from guessing the identity  of Dread when he controlled one of their party.   In this novel, it seemed  _very_ obvious to me that he extended the series by changing the previous  ending (there were originally only going to be three novels) in one key  element, therefore being able to continue.  I do admit that it's preferable  to the Robert Jordan method of continuing a series by adding more and more  words and descriptions in less and less 'book time', but it was still  jarring and seemed to cheapen some of the sacrifices made by characters.  Still, I look forward to the final book in the series.	2000-01-07
US	51287148	R28X7P1XRAC0KZ	0671629980	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, Book 36)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Star Trek Meets The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	One word: Hilarious!  The first time I read this novel I was very angry  because I'd gone into it expecting a serious novel like all the others  before it.  I hated it.  I didn't want to ever read it again.  Then I  thought about it a year or two later and went back and re-read it.  I died  laughing, especially during the Vulcan Milkshake and the chase sequences.   Do _not_ go into the book expecting a serious story, but if you go into it  in the right frame of mind you _will_ laugh until your sides hurt.	1998-08-23
US	51287148	R39AY5XG8UFKO3	0312962126	673158720	Extinct	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Better than Meg, still implausible.	One word:  Mediocre.  Again, as a Marine Bio grad student I might be  biased, but sharks as large as Charles Wilson describes are very  implausible.  I do remember reading about the Megalodon as a kid and that  it was thought to potentially reach a hundred feet or more in length, but  this was based on a misunderstanding of the tooth to jaw ratio when using  the largest Megalodon tooth discovered.  Later it was determined that the  tooth would belong to a 40-50 foot long shark.       Sharks having the  kinds of communications skills related and the 'concern' for their  offspring are also very hard to swallow.  However, the writing style was  far better than 'Meg', and the relationships between the characters seemed  real rather than forced.  To tell the truth, I was more interested in  finding out how the characters would grow than I was in the shark element.	1998-08-22
US	51287148	R9IU73B6J1QPS	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Biased by my Marine Bio background, but this was laughable.	One word: Laughable.  Perhaps my bias as a graduate student in Marine  Biology has something to do with it, but I was laughing so hard at times  that it felt like I was reading a comedy.  The writing style didn't draw me  in at all, and in comparison to other writers, seemed uninspiring.  But  this isn't what I was laughing at.  Here are some examples:       1) One of the key elements of the book is that hydrothermal vents create a warm layer of tropical water beneath the arctic water above.  They don't.  If you heat water, it gets less dense, it rises and mixes with the water  above.  The heat input of hydrothermal vents would not be enough to offset  the amount of cold water above it.  Yes, the water immediately near the vents would be warm, but the area wouldn't be enough for a community of very large sharks to survive in numbers large enough to sustain their population.    2) The idea that the sharks would have  been driven that deep in the first place is ludicrous.  Assuming biology  similar to Great Whites (a pretty safe assumption), they would be able to  range from arctic waters to tropical.  Even during the ice age, the equator  wasn't _that_ cold, so the sharks could have gone there even if their  biology was different.    3) The scene where the female chews up the male,  leaving a stream of superheated blood that she could climb up within  through the arctic water.  What's wrong with this?  Where do I start...  Sharks even that size wouldn't have that much blood.  Blood cools quickly  in ice cold water, even the amount that was lost all at once.  I was simply  rolling.       I would like to end this by saying that if anyone did enjoy  this novel, I'm glad you did, but please don't take the science in it at  face value.  I heard from a reliable source that one of the premiere shark   experts in the world gave advice to the author, and after reading the book  asked to be stricken from the credits so that his reputation wouldn't  suffer.	1998-08-22
US	51287148	R32566MSWD7XB	0886775272	892244184	Black Sun Rising (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	One of the best Dark Fantasy Novels I've Read.	In one word: Gorgeous.  This first book in the series simply had me unable  to put it down, which is unusual for me these days.  I've gotten tired of  the standard 'Naive, reluctant young man/woman/people find out they have to  kill the evil Foozle because of some prophecy.' routine in most stories.   The heroes in this book are real characters, already quite competent, and  the tension comes as much between some conflict between the two main  characters as it does with the various enemies they face.  <br />   The book  defies easy categorization.  At first glance it's simply a Fantasy novel,  but there is more than a small horror and Sci-Fi element to this novel.   The magic in this book is wonderful, cohesive, original and a 'natural'  consequence of the world the characters live on.<br />   If there's a  complaint I have, it's that C.S. Friedman seems to repeat things that she's  stated before, as if to make sure that we don't forget.  In particular, she  describes the tension that exists between the two main characters too many  times to keep count.  That one small complaint aside, this is one of the  best books I've read, and in my opinion it outshines the other two in the  series.	1998-08-21
