US	51298344	R1WIZDPR9HUTHB	0446511528	553612546	The Heartbreaker	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Heartbreaker	Instead of being a typical teenager, Chase Chandler spent his latter teens helping his mom raise his two younger brothers.  Now that they have both settled down, Chase is finally ready to spread his wings and leave Yorkshire Falls, New York behind, if only for a little while.  In Washington, D.C., Chase visits his brother, Roman, and hopes to gain rights to an exclusive one on one interview with Madeline Carlisle, wife of Senator Michael Carlisle, to bolster his career.  But before business must come pleasure, and Chase finds that pleasure in the arms of a gorgeous redhead who is gone by daybreak. <br />After meeting Madeline Carlisle, Chase finds himself with a curious offer.  He can have his exclusive interview, if he returns to Yorkshire Falls to watch after the senator's oldest daughter, Sloane Carlisle.  Sloane overheard a private conversation and may now be in serious hot water.  It isn't until he sees her picture that Chase realizes his one-night stand is the woman he is about to go protect.  There is one distraction that stands between them; a one-night stand just isn't enough.  Chase discovers just how hard keeping your mind on the job can be.<br />Not only is THE HEARTBREAKER the final Chandler brothers' path to romance, but it also marks Carly Phillips debut hardcover.  Each brother and his wife (Roman & Charlotte from THE BACHELOR and Rick & Kendall from THE PLAYBOY) make a significant return appearance in this book.  Readers who have anxiously awaited the birth of Roman and Charlotte's baby will finally find that closure within THE HEARTBREAKER.<br />While the story had passion and plenty of romantic tension, at times I felt the resolution to Sloane's predicament took precedence.  It took me longer to warm up to Chase and Sloane's romance than it has in the previous stories.<br />There is also the continuing romance between Raina (Chase, Rick and Roman's mom) and her steady beau, Eric.  Though a twist in her story there may leave readers with jaws agape.<br />All in all, THE HEARTBREAKER is thoroughly enjoyable.  However, this reviewer has hesitations over if I would be willing to pay the hardcover price.  I think that is a matter that is best left for you, the reader, to decide. <br />Tracy Farnsworth - Review as seen at former site TRRC	2003-08-26
US	51298344	R1Q8769137SJ7G	0842375481	192038273	Fatal Harvest (Fatal Harvest Series #1)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fatal Harvest	Sixteen-year-old Matthew Strong has the perfect topic for his term paper, unfortunately his research leads him into more trouble than he can handle.  Matt's paper focuses on one company, Agrimax, who are hiding a secret they do not want revealed.  A secret they will do anything to keep under wraps, including murder.  <br />When Matt disappears, his father, Cole, is beside himself with worry and turns to Matt's computer teacher, Jill Pruitt.  Soon Matt's source of information is murdered and the police believe Matt killed him.  Jill and Cole set off on an international trek with Matt's best friend, Billy, hoping to find Matt and prove his innocence before the bad guys get hold of him.  <br />In a fast-paced adventure that keeps you on your toes, follow Matt as he travels to Mexico, France and finally Sudan, where the action comes to an exhilarating conclusion.  Greed, money and power set the stage for FATAL HARVEST, and in reality it becomes a game of good versus evil.  Matt is merely a teenager going up against a powerful conglomerate.  While there is a touch of romance, Catherine Palmer focuses mainly on suspense and proves she is at the top of her game.  <br />To me, the only downfall I can find with this book is that the conclusion seemed abrupt.  However as FATAL HARVEST is the first in Ms. Palmer's new adventure series, readers may see Matt, Cole, Jill and Billy in the future.  This reader certainly hopes so!  <br />Tracy Farnsworth - former TRRC reviewer	2003-08-26
US	51298344	R15W4LGA5Q7FW	0842360123	624212803	An Echo of Hope (Reardon Valley #3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Echo Of Hope	After waiting for her beloved for seven years, Hope Underwood felt she had no choice but to accept an arranged marriage.  The marriage was not based on love, and Hope has never forgotten the man who left her behind, Michael Flanagan.  She often wonders why he broke his promise.  After learning her husband was killed at war, Hope decides to remain with her in-laws, who feel it is their younger son's duty to marry Hope and become father to her son.  Despite their plans, Hope is determined to marry only for love; a dream that may come true when Michael suddenly returns.  <br />Michael finds himself thrust back into Hope's world.  He promised her dying husband that he would deliver a note to Hope.  Michael had his reasons for not returning.  His father's shadow looms over him; and until he can forgive his father's crimes, he does not believe Hope will forgive him.  When he learns that Hope never stopped loving him, he faces a bigger obstacle.  A good majority of the community believe in the saying \\"Like father, like son\\", including Hope's father.  <br />AN ECHO OF HOPE marks the dramatic conclusion to the Reardon Valley series.  Reunite with characters from the past - Hope is Jessica and Noah's daughter (FREEDOM'S HOPE), Max and Belinda are back (LADY OF THE RIVER), and many of the Clays (A HOME IN THE VALLEY) appear as well.  <br />Most characters in AN ECHO OF HOPE are well developed and enjoyable.  However, I found it impossible to like Hope's brother-in-law, Joel.  Thankfully, it soon became clear that Joel was not meant to be a nice man.  So be prepared to spend a good deal of the book wanting to see his character get kicked out of town!  Hope was a strong heroine, but I do wish she'd gotten over her hesitance and run off with Michael.  Granted, that would have most likely ended the book, but she let people steamroll her despite her insistence that she was going to make her own decisions this time.  <br />Those nitpicks aside, I found AN ECHO OF HOPE to be a wonderful addition to this popular series.  As I read it in a couple of hours, I can guarantee that the story holds your attention from start to finish.  I do hope Dianna Crawford will return her readers to Reardon Valley in the future.  <br />Tracy Farnsworth - Former reviewer at TRRC	2003-08-26
US	51298344	R3AUZ9P2FDEDAQ	0842360123	624212803	An Echo of Hope (Reardon Valley #3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Echo Of Hope	After waiting for her beloved for seven years, Hope Underwood felt she had no choice but to accept an arranged marriage.  The marriage was not based on love, and Hope has never forgotten the man who left her behind, Michael Flanagan.  She often wonders why he broke his promise.  After learning her husband was killed at war, Hope decides to remain with her in-laws, who feel it is their younger son's duty to marry Hope and become father to her son.  Despite their plans, Hope is determined to marry only for love; a dream that may come true when Michael suddenly returns.  <br />Michael finds himself thrust back into Hope's world.  He promised her dying husband that he would deliver a note to Hope.  Michael had his reasons for not returning.  His father's shadow looms over him; and until he can forgive his father's crimes, he does not believe Hope will forgive him.  When he learns that Hope never stopped loving him, he faces a bigger obstacle.  A good majority of the community believe in the saying \\"Like father, like son\\", including Hope's father.  <br />AN ECHO OF HOPE marks the dramatic conclusion to the Reardon Valley series.  Reunite with characters from the past - Hope is Jessica and Noah's daughter (FREEDOM'S HOPE), Max and Belinda are back (LADY OF THE RIVER), and many of the Clays (A HOME IN THE VALLEY) appear as well.  <br />Most characters in AN ECHO OF HOPE are well developed and enjoyable.  However, I found it impossible to like Hope's brother-in-law, Joel.  Thankfully, it soon became clear that Joel was not meant to be a nice man.  So be prepared to spend a good deal of the book wanting to see his character get kicked out of town!  Hope was a strong heroine, but I do wish she'd gotten over her hesitance and run off with Michael.  Granted, that would have most likely ended the book, but she let people steamroll her despite her insistence that she was going to make her own decisions this time.  <br />Those nitpicks aside, I found AN ECHO OF HOPE to be a wonderful addition to this popular series.  As I read it in a couple of hours, I can guarantee that the story holds your attention from start to finish.  I do hope Dianna Crawford will return her readers to Reardon Valley in the future.  <br />Tracy Farnsworth - Former reviewer at TRRC	2003-08-26
US	51298344	RZQ0C36ROXGG1	0842360980	995729383	Speak to Me of Love (Heart Quest)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Speak To Me Of Love	First off, those planning on buying this book should be aware that SPEAK TO ME OF LOVE is in fact a reissue of sorts.  Originally, Harper Paperbacks released CHANCES ARE in 1996 for the secular romance world, but Ms. Hatcher was never quite happy with the editing that removed the Christian values from her earlier books.  She is now returning to her favorite earlier stories and changing them to encompass her Christian ideals and values.  <br />After learning that if she doesn't settle down and stop moving her young daughter from one town to the next, Faith Butler has no option but to give up her acting job and settle down in the quiet, lifeless town called Dead Horse, Wyoming.  Divorced with no family or friends in the area, Faith is desperate for a job and agrees to work for a local ranch owner as his housekeeper and cook.  The measure is only temporary.  She'll stay long enough for her daughter's recovery.  Getting to know Drake is a challenge, but as she spends more time in his world, she begins to dream of the possibility of a new life.  <br />Drake Rutledge, owner of the Jagged R Ranch, does not want or need a housekeeper or cook.  But something about Faith has him saying yes instead of turning her away.  An injury keeps Drake away from people, especially women.  But as he gets to know Faith and her children, he finds himself losing the one thing he swore he'd never give willingly to another - his heart.  <br />CHANCES ARE has been one of my favorite historical romances for years.  So I must say, I was hesitant to see it rewritten under a new title.  I know a lot of readers feel that renaming books is deceptive, especially if it is not made clear on the cover that the book has been previously released.  At this time, I cannot say if there are plans to make it clear that this is a rewrite or not.  The cover art I have in hand does not show any statement to that effect.  <br />With this in mind, I found SPEAK TO ME OF LOVE to be just as charming.  There is more emphasis placed on Christian ideals and values, but they really do not distract the reader from the story at hand.  If you haven't read this story, it is one of Ms. Hatcher's finest.  If you have, you may want to reread it just for the sheer beauty of the story. <BR> <BR>Tracy Farnsworth - former TRRC Reviewer	2003-08-26
US	51298344	R2YQRU8S8N1C41	0842360980	995729383	Speak to Me of Love (Heart Quest)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Speak To Me Of Love	First off, those planning on buying this book should be aware that SPEAK TO ME OF LOVE is in fact a reissue of sorts.  Originally, Harper Paperbacks released CHANCES ARE in 1996 for the secular romance world, but Ms. Hatcher was never quite happy with the editing that removed the Christian values from her earlier books.  She is now returning to her favorite earlier stories and changing them to encompass her Christian ideals and values.  <br />After learning that if she doesn't settle down and stop moving her young daughter from one town to the next, Faith Butler has no option but to give up her acting job and settle down in the quiet, lifeless town called Dead Horse, Wyoming.  Divorced with no family or friends in the area, Faith is desperate for a job and agrees to work for a local ranch owner as his housekeeper and cook.  The measure is only temporary.  She'll stay long enough for her daughter's recovery.  Getting to know Drake is a challenge, but as she spends more time in his world, she begins to dream of the possibility of a new life.  <br />Drake Rutledge, owner of the Jagged R Ranch, does not want or need a housekeeper or cook.  But something about Faith has him saying yes instead of turning her away.  An injury keeps Drake away from people, especially women.  But as he gets to know Faith and her children, he finds himself losing the one thing he swore he'd never give willingly to another - his heart.  <br />CHANCES ARE has been one of my favorite historical romances for years.  So I must say, I was hesitant to see it rewritten under a new title.  I know a lot of readers feel that renaming books is deceptive, especially if it is not made clear on the cover that the book has been previously released.  At this time, I cannot say if there are plans to make it clear that this is a rewrite or not.  The cover art I have in hand does not show any statement to that effect.  <br />With this in mind, I found SPEAK TO ME OF LOVE to be just as charming.  There is more emphasis placed on Christian ideals and values, but they really do not distract the reader from the story at hand.  If you haven't read this story, it is one of Ms. Hatcher's finest.  If you have, you may want to reread it just for the sheer beauty of the story. <BR> <BR>Tracy Farnsworth - former TRRC Reviewer	2003-08-26
US	51298344	R3N38CHISNN83L	0316912123	990953000	All I Want Is Everything (Gossip Girl, 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	All I Want Is Everything	Though Gossip Girl's identity may be a tightly held secret, that is the only secret you will find within the pages of ALL I WANT IS EVERYTHING.  Gossip Girl has all the inside scoops on a group of rich kids in New York City that only know how to live life to its fullest.<br />After making up, Blair Waldorf and Serena von der Woodsen get up to their usual antics.  Attending parties, going for limo rides with a famous pop star and even jetting off to the island of St. Barts are merely every day occurrences.  More pressing are mid-term exams and the dreaded college essays.  Blair struggles to enjoy her fun in the sun knowing she cannot put off her essay much longer.<br />I honestly don't want to give away a lot of the gossip found within, so I am not talking about the plot any further.  All of the characters from the previous two books (GOSSIP GIRL and YOU KNOW YOU LOVE ME) are found within these pages.  Plenty of secrets are revealed and even more questions lurk in your mind - most importantly just who is Gossip Girl?<br />I admit if a series like this had been around when I was a teen, I would have snatched them up.  Cecily von Ziegesar tells her stories with wit and cattiness.  Women can be catty in the best of times, and to step back from real life and soak up an exorbitant amount of this behavior had me laughing.  Though a few aspects of the story struck me as unreal, and maybe I'm wrong maybe bars in New York don't card everyone like they do here, I still found the book to be a delight.	2003-05-08
US	51298344	R21M1JOMEU10TM	0316912123	990953000	All I Want Is Everything (Gossip Girl, 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	All I Want Is Everything	Though Gossip Girl's identity may be a tightly held secret, that is the only secret you will find within the pages of ALL I WANT IS EVERYTHING.  Gossip Girl has all the inside scoops on a group of rich kids in New York City that only know how to live life to its fullest.<br />After making up, Blair Waldorf and Serena von der Woodsen get up to their usual antics.  Attending parties, going for limo rides with a famous pop star and even jetting off to the island of St. Barts are merely every day occurrences.  More pressing are mid-term exams and the dreaded college essays.  Blair struggles to enjoy her fun in the sun knowing she cannot put off her essay much longer.<br />I honestly don't want to give away a lot of the gossip found within, so I am not talking about the plot any further.  All of the characters from the previous two books (GOSSIP GIRL and YOU KNOW YOU LOVE ME) are found within these pages.  Plenty of secrets are revealed and even more questions lurk in your mind - most importantly just who is Gossip Girl?<br />I admit if a series like this had been around when I was a teen, I would have snatched them up.  Cecily von Ziegesar tells her stories with wit and cattiness.  Women can be catty in the best of times, and to step back from real life and soak up an exorbitant amount of this behavior had me laughing.  Though a few aspects of the story struck me as unreal, and maybe I'm wrong maybe bars in New York don't card everyone like they do here, I still found the book to be a delight.	2003-05-08
US	51298344	R3K5HZ1R3EZNK5	0316702757	670252861	Keeping You a Secret	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Keeping You A Secret	Now that her senior year has arrived, Holland Jaeger finds life is not so simple.  Her mother is pressing her to go to law school.  This is not Holland's dream, however her mother seems intent on living vicariously through Holland's life.  She wants only the best for Holland.  Therefore it is up to Holland to get the best grades, apply to the best schools, and meet everyone's expectations.<br />When Holland finds herself attracted to a new student, she realizes she's going to have a very serious problem with her current boyfriend; he's too needy.  Since they began having sex, that is all he seems to want to do.  The new student, Cece, is an 'out-and-proud' lesbian, and Holland finds herself in the greatest relationship ever.  What price will she pay when she decides to follow her heart?<br />KEEPING YOU A SECRET tackles a tough subject in a lighthearted manner.  Now there is a lot in this book to which I cannot relate.  My parents did not force me to follow their dreams and, as a heterosexual woman, I have no experience with the discrimination that lesbians face.  I know when I was in high school there were no gays or lesbians that I knew of.  In retrospect now that some of them have \\"come out\\", I am surprised that they did manage to keep it hidden so well, and saddened that they felt they had to hide the essence of who they were.  <br />Those issues aside, I found myself intrigued with Julie Anne Peters writing.  Her views are honest and handled well.  Teen sex is not ignored; instead it is handled honestly with both the pros and cons taken into consideration.  Birth control is discussed without being preached.  All of these were issues we hated listening to as kids, but they are important nonetheless.  <br />I honestly cannot say this book will appeal to every teenager.  But I do hope that those with an open mind will read it and take the message to heart.  In the end, it's your decisions, the ones that change your life, that are the most important. <BR> <BR> Tracy Farnsworth	2003-05-02
US	51298344	R20LP6XEJ3FYSY	0316702757	670252861	Keeping You a Secret	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Keeping You A Secret	Now that her senior year has arrived, Holland Jaeger finds life is not so simple.  Her mother is pressing her to go to law school.  This is not Holland's dream, however her mother seems intent on living vicariously through Holland's life.  She wants only the best for Holland.  Therefore it is up to Holland to get the best grades, apply to the best schools, and meet everyone's expectations.<br />When Holland finds herself attracted to a new student, she realizes she's going to have a very serious problem with her current boyfriend; he's too needy.  Since they began having [a relationship], that is all he seems to want to do.  The new student, Cece, is an 'out-and-proud' lesbian, and Holland finds herself in the greatest relationship ever.  What price will she pay when she decides to follow her heart?<br />KEEPING YOU A SECRET tackles a tough subject in a lighthearted manner.  Now there is a lot in this book to which I cannot relate.  My parents did not force me to follow their dreams and, as a heterosexual woman, I have no experience with the discrimination that lesbians face.  I know when I was in high school there were no [guys in relationships] or lesbians that I knew of.  In retrospect now that some of them have \\"come out\\", I am surprised that they did manage to keep it hidden so well, and saddened that they felt they had to hide the essence of who they were.  <br />Those issues aside, I found myself intrigued with Julie Anne Peters writing.  Her views are honest and handled well.  Teen [relationships are]not ignored; instead it is handled honestly with both the pros and cons taken into consideration.  Birth control is discussed without being preached.  All of these were issues we hated listening to as kids, but they are important nonetheless.  <br />I honestly cannot say this book will appeal to every teenager.  But I do hope that those with an open mind will read it and take the message to heart.  In the end, it's your decisions, the ones that change your life,that are the most important. <BR> <BR> Tracy Farnsworth	2003-05-02
US	51298344	R2QU45KJKLO8ZZ	0966986105	577329733	Prescription for Terror	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Romance Readers Connection	PRESCRIPTION FOR TERROR  Sandra Levy Ceren  Andrew Scott Publishers  ISBN: 0-966-98610-5  May 1999  Psychological Suspense <br />A man is terrorizing women along the coast of San Diego. After gaining their trust by claiming he is shy around women, he arrives at their homes where he brutally rapes them. Two women are stabbed to death after the rape. Police are baffled and have no idea who the rapist/murderer could be. <br />Dr. Cory Cohen is haunted by memories of her own rape, years ago. As she learns of patients who have been raped by this man, she realizes that there is a common link. Dr. Cohen and other fellow psychologists band together to warn women, but the killer may be closer than she thinks. <br />PRESCRIPTION FOR TERROR is a chilling view into the mind of a deranged man and the problems that managed care can cause. Dr. Cohen is an extremely resilient heroine; she will protect her patients no matter the cost. The story is told through Dr. Cohen's eyes and also the killer's, which gives the reader better insight to his depraved mind. The killer is as malevolent as they come. The dramatic narrative each woman uses to describe this man is incredibly lucid-It seemed I could smell the sweaty, oiliness that they experienced.  <br />If you are expecting a bizarre whodunit, you will be better off elsewhere, but if you enjoy richly painted psychological suspense, PRESCRIPTION FOR TERROR is an excellent choice.	2001-08-01
US	51298344	R3L9CN67282I0T	155166819X	584115626	Clay	Books	3	3	3	N	N	My romreadtoday.com review for Clay	A simple favor turns into a huge nightmare for Clay Benedict, the youngest of four boys from the powerful Benedict family. Clay agrees to help his cousin, Denise, by checking on her friend, Janna Kerr, who is staying in Denise's secluded fishing camp. Unbeknownst to Clay, Janna has ulterior motives and secretly drugs his coffee. Once he is unconscious, Janna moves him to her spare bedroom before tying him up.<br />When Clay wakes up and discovers he is being held prisoner, he figures Janna is hiding something. As he becomes closer to Janna's precocious young daughter, Lainey, Clay finds himself looking into the eyes of a Benedict, but whose child is she? As the situation unfolds, Clay learns Lainey has End Stage Renal Disease and there is little hope unless a transplant is found soon. No matter the cost, Janna is determined to keep her child alive until a kidney can be found on the black market. When a dead body is found in the bayou, Janna realizes she may be in over her head.<br />Admittedly, I have other Benedict books waiting upstairs on my bookshelf; I kept putting them aside. What a huge mistake! CLAY is fast-paced and toe curling. I fell in love with Clay and his brothers; each has his own story either previously released or in the works. Clay is honest, caring and does not take grief from anyone. His dialogue with Lainey is heartwarming and genuine, the ideal man/child relationship, while the passion roaring between Clay and Janna adds a strong romance to the already stunning story! Janna, on the other hand, seemed a bit naïve and acted before thinking. Janna's carelessness was a good match with Clay's steadfast attitude.<br />Suspense fans will adore this story; the action picks up rapidly and had me flipping pages as fast as I could! Now I can't wait to work my way through the other brother's stories- KANE 3/98, LUKE 2/99, ROAN 7/00 and the upcoming WADE 9/02.<br />Tracy	2001-07-19
US	51298344	R1I1A0TXZS02V0	1578564271	197767797	Beneath a Southern Sky (Beneath a Southern Sky Series #1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	My romrevtoday.com review	While on a mission in South America, Daria Camfield's husband, Dr. Nathan Camfield, travels to a nearby town to treat a possible outbreak of dengue fever. Daria fears for her husband's safety but relies on God to see him through. Her faith is shattered a few weeks later when his guides return with stories of his tragic death in a cabin fire. Daria returns to her home in Kansas where she soon learns she is pregnant. She finds a job in a nearby veterinary practice and begins her new life.  <br /> Daria's new boss, Dr. Colson Hunter, is recovering from his wife's suicide. Cole has also lost faith in God, and together they befriend one another and soon fall in love. A year and a half after Nathan's death, Daria remarries and is overjoyed a few months later when she becomes pregnant again. Joy then turns to dread when a telegram arrives stating Nathan was found alive and is coming home. <br /> BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY is an extremely satisfying love story that uses references to God without an excess of preaching. A skilled use of dialogue blends with narrative to create strong, believable characters. Cole and Daria have a superb relationship that is also realistic with parenting conflicts, disapproving in-laws and the return of her first husband for whom Daria still has intense feelings. She does not rush to a decision but weighs all the pros and cons and places her trust in God to find the best solution for the children involved.    <br />The gripping storyline flows with a fast pace that held my interest from the first page. Have a Kleenex on hand and let BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY sweep you away for a few hours.	2001-07-19
US	51298344	R1S7ZIL0A7BA8F	0373226055	453491445	The Hunt for Hawke's Daughter (Top Secret Babies, Book 3) (Harlequin Intrigue Series #605)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	My romrevtoday.com review	Devlin Hawke never stopped loving Karen Ramey, even after she walked out with no explanation. Now Devlin has waltzed back into Karen's life with a tidbit of news that could destroy her emotionally.<br />Karen Ramey tried to forget Devlin four years ago. At the time, her foolish pride kept her from telling him that he was going to be a father. Now their three-year-old daughter Livie is missing, and Karen needs Devlin's help to recover the little girl.<br />Livie's life may be in danger. Will Karen and Devlin forgive and forget past mistakes in time to save their child?<br />THE HUNT FOR HAWKE'S DAUGHTER is an exciting tale of kidnapping and dangerous secrets. The suspense will keep you on the edge of your seat. Karen's motherly concern for her missing child is portrayed authentically and had me near tears a number of times. I could feel her frustration with the investigation. Devlin's detachment to the daughter he did not know existed is also genuine. I think a number of men in the same position would react similarly.<br />As the secrets are slowly revealed, I was amazed at the complexity of the kidnapping. There are lots of twists that keep the reader guessing, but they are not overwhelming. As the book progresses, the action increases which made the story impossible to put down.<br />In THE HUNT FOR HAWKE'S DAUGHTER, Devlin's family is introduced. The family owns Hawke's Detective Agency, and the multitude of brothers, sisters and his parents are presented to the readers. After the story ended, I wanted to hear more about them. I am hoping that each family member will eventually get his or her own story.	2001-07-19
US	51298344	R2AGU4MQN1A1TB	1583459391	892609164	The Crooked Birdcage	Books	3	0	0	N	N	My ... review	Awakened by a commotion early one Saturday morning, Samantha Burnes is less than gracious as she meets her new neighbors. Samantha had spent the week looking forward to sleeping late on the weekend and found her plans destroyed by the handsome man&#8217;s family.<br />When Samantha receives a dinner invitation to Morry&#8217;s, her other neighbor, she gladly accepts. Without Samantha&#8217;s knowledge, Morry is attempting to fix her up with the new man in the neighborhood, Jon Nicolson. Jon&#8217;s two young children instantly win Samantha over, and she finds herself longing to become part of the family.<br />However, as Samantha and Jon become more intimate, Samantha finds Jon pulling away from her. What is the secret that he is determined to keep from her? Will it tear apart their new relationship?<br />While the South African location does not get much emphasis within the book, THE CROOKED BIRDCAGE is a satisfying love story. Samantha&#8217;s spirited attitude wins over the children, rapidly providing a common bond that draws Jon into her life. Lively narrative and personable characters create an honest relationship to which I could relate.<br />While Jon&#8217;s &#8216;secret&#8217; may be easy to figure out, THE CROOKED BIRDCAGE still entertained this reader. My biggest complaint is that the story ended. I would love to see Samantha and Jon get tied up in more small predicaments and have the chance to watch the characters blossom as they face each new challenge. Maybe they can return for a series!	2001-07-19
US	51298344	RVE3QOWOBZVLQ	037322608X	837478224	To Protect Their Child (Harlequin Intrigue 608)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	My romrevtoday.com review	The first book in the McClintock Country series is a grand view of small town life and the skeletons that can be found in every closet. The cast for this new series is introduced, and you get to peek inside some very unpleasant business dealings.<br />Elaine Greene's world is shattered when her husband, Bobby, is murdered. Her father's body is found nearby, the victim of a massive heart attack. Faced with the arduous task of picking up the pieces, Elaine needs to move on for her daughter's sake. Especially now that her true love, Ric has returned. She guards a secret that she is not ready to reveal.<br />Ric Buchanan left McClintock in search of a better life. He returns from the military having endured career ending injuries that almost left him crippled. Upon his return, Ric is reunited with his best friend, Bobby Greene, and a secret is revealed that shatters his world. After Bobby is murdered and the sheriff calls it an accident, Ric is determined to help Elaine discover the truth about her husband and father.<br />Introductions to the different townspeople overshadow the relationship between Ric and Elaine for the first few chapters. Once you have the characters and their relationship to the hero and heroine figured out (there is a Cast Of Characters page that was extremely helpful), the story picks up in intensity and the focus turns to just Ric, Elaine and her daughter. Chemistry between them heats up quickly and held my interest to the very end.<br />The mystery is tough to figure out! Enough suspects come into play to keep you guessing. While Ric and Elaine struggle to find and decipher the clues, the attraction to each other sizzles! Wrapped all together, TO PROTECT THEIR CHILD is a fun story to read and a wonderful start to a new series.	2001-07-19
US	51298344	R2B0371B239WEH	1578564093	198993828	Shenandoah Home (The Sinclair Legacy #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	My review	Jacob Sinclair is a widowed man trying his hardest to raise three young daughters in a world domineered by males. Having done his best, one daughter, Leah, chooses to pursue a college education, the other two sisters, Garnet and Meredith, remain home hoping to discover their talents. Both Meredith and Garnet receive a beautiful, handcrafted heartwood chest complete with a secret drawer that hides an object Jacob has handpicked as a gift to each. What lies within SHENANDOAH HOME are Garnet and Meredith's journeys to grow emotionally and spiritually, while they find their heart's desires and the meaning behind their Father's gift.<br />The first story is Garnet's story, \\"The Cardinal Feather.\\" Artistic Garnet has always been free willed, but her independence often lures her into troublesome situations. Hiding a ghastly secret, Garnet becomes reserved; a change that her sisters and father cannot ignore. When Dr. Sloan MacAllister comes to town, he soon finds himself unwillingly doctoring both Garnet and an injured fox that she risks her life to save. As Garnet heals, she reveals her past to Sloan. Both Sloan and Garnet feel their budding attraction, but can they find faith in a God they feel has forgotten them? Will they muster the strength to face their feared pasts and start anew?<br />Next is Meredith's story, \\"The Gingerbread Girl.\\" Meredith is the obstinate oldest sister who wants to become a successful businesswoman. When a prosperous businessman, J. Preston Clarke, comes into town after insulting Meredith's boss, Benjamin Walker, in a local paper, Meredith prepares to battle the fiend. However, once she meets Preston, she is soon entranced by his charm and quickly finds herself falling in love. Love is not always as it seems, however, and Meredith has to face intense challenges before realizing the heart never lies.<br />While SHENANDOAH HOME starts with an exceedingly slow pace, it transforms into a beautiful piece of fiction. Strong characters shine through realistic dialogue and thought provoking narrative. There are subtle religious themes mentioned within the story, but the author never preaches-only makes you stop and think about your choices in life.<br />The second story is, by far, the stronger of the two. Meredith is constantly battling to remain a woman within a male-dominated business world. She remains strong despite the men's vocal perceptions of her friendly attitude. Meredith's strength endeared her to this reader's heart.<br />I do wish, however, that the third sister, Leah's, story was contained within SHENANDOAH HOME. It seems slightly unfair that the two sisters get a heartwood chest, while Leah remains in the background. I anxiously await Leah's story, VIRGINIA AUTUMN, next spring.	2001-07-19
US	51298344	R21X2G3OR27L8P	0759901732	914771684	Christmas Ice Mystery & San Juan Secret[3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Christmas Ice Mystery/San Juan Secret	My review can also be seen at [...]<br />Present day Seattle &amp; San Juan Islands, Washington<br />Marion MacDonald's duo of suspense/adventure stories is fun for the whole family.  While they are aimed at young adults, I enjoyed both stories.<br />THE CHRISTMAS ICE MYSTERY: Lora arrives from her home on the San Juan Islands to spend the holidays with her Aunt Shannon, Uncle Richard and cousin Jamie. In exchange for brand new skis and a fantastic skiing holiday, Lora and Jamie accept temporary jobs in Richard's business, Hammond's Department Store. Lora takes a job at Santa's Wonderland where children of all ages come to see Santa and have their picture taken. Jamie helps out as a stock boy working throughout the store where he has the advantage of watching all of his co- workers.<br />The shrill clang of the fire alarm puts a damper on their first day at work. After a fire is set in the men's bathroom, the Winter Ice Display is stolen from the jewelry department.  Diamonds valued at more than one million dollars vanish without a trace and police are sure it was an inside job. When a misunderstanding about insurance coverage threatens to put Richard out of business, Lora and Jamie begin a hunt for suspects that may put them in danger. Can they solve the mystery and save the store?<br />SAN JUAN SECRET reunites Lora and Jamie for another intriguing mystery. This time Jamie has come to the San Juan Islands to spend a few weeks with Lora's family. After they discover an old plaque from a shipwreck, they bring it to the attention of Lora's neighbor, Marie. Marie's late husband died years ago on a bootlegging run and the plaque stirs up more than memories. Someone wants to keep the kids away from Jones Island where the plaque was discovered. Now Jamie and Lora need to figure out what is so important about that old wreck.<br />SAN JUAN SECRET was my favorite of the two. Past secrets collide to bring a thrilling end for all involved. The suspense kept me hooked from beginning to end. Vivid narrative and an understanding of how a child would react to the grown-ups around made both stories a thrill to read. There were a number of typos and one inconsistency, however, which tended to distract me from what I was reading. In the first story, Jamie's parents were named Richard and Shannon. In the second book, their names were John and Judy. It left me wondering if Lora had another cousin Jamie who lived in the city.	2001-02-28
US	51298344	R2K9YJLOQFU99L	0553580132	158048028	Painted by the Sun	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Painted by the Sun- A Splendid Romance	Elizabeth Grayson has been writing since the age of fifteen with her first published book released in 1985.  With nine books (including  those written under her other name, Elizabeth Kary) under her belt, I would  have expected I had heard of her before now.  She creates a strong heroine  for whom you find yourself cheering. <br />Painted is the story of Shea Waterston, a traveling photographer who was  forced to place her toddler son on an orphan train ten years ago.  She  follows the path that the orphan trains took, moving from town to town in  the hopes that someday she will find the child she loved.  When she stumbles  upon the change to photograph a hanging, she knows it could make her career,  only the town judge does not think a woman should watch such brutality.  Not  one to take no for an answer, the judge places her in a jail cell to ensure  she misses the brutal event. <br />Judge Cameron Gaillmore is a stubborn man with no time or love for women.  When Shea saves his life, he has no choice but to start trusting her.  And  pretty soon, he can't fight his growing attraction.  But they both have  secrets; will those secrets pull them together or rip them apart? <br />A beautifully written story with excellent historical details, you feel as if you are on location watching the story unfold before your eyes.  Rich details abound from the minute details of the scents surrounding the characters while out in the wilderness to the textures and colors of the clothes they wear.  Cameron and Shea come across as people you know.  You feel Shea's heartache from having to give her son away in order to better care for him.  I found myself crying right alongside Shea desperately wanting to hold her hand and let her know she was only doing the best for her child.  Cameron's stubborn attitude had me wishing I could jump into the book time and time again and help him see around his pride.  While it was not an original plot line, there were plenty of refreshing twists and turns to keep the reader excited.  After reading this story, I can't wait to find her older books and lose myself in them.<br />Vtavidreader......	2001-02-02
US	51298344	R1GC2OGC1RFNLL	0880013222	653064872	Reckless Appetites: A Culinary Romance	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Great Recipes!  Lousy story	A fan of culinary mysteries, I was pretty psyched when I found my first culinary romance at a booksale.  I am glad I found it at booksale prices however, the story just was not worth my time.<br />The story of Pomme an aspiring chef who fashions her own life after some of histories best authors. This leads to the best part of the book- her recipes.  Taken from classic memoirs, letters and cookbooks the recipes are outstanding, but to me recipes alone cannot make the story more than a two.	2001-01-25
US	51298344	R5S3XJUR1C7EG	0380778459	999780192	A Place Called Home	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Could not put it down!	Elizabeth Grayson is a master at historical detail and bringing her characters appear real to the reader.  From the start, you will wait with held breath as the heroines husband is murdered in front of her and her young children.  Then to have to continue the rugged trail to make a new home out west took more strength than most women would possess, especially when that woman is pregnant and one of her youngsters develops smallpox which scares any decent help away.  It is a joy to read!	2000-12-30
US	51298344	R4PEZIF7HPXWE	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Heart of the Sea	I am going against the reviews here.  I thought the ending seemed rushed.  First off, I hated Darcy and all that she stood for.  Nora did a great job with her character because I did despise her.  Trevor is too weak though.  When Darcy was asked by Trevor to show him the local attractions and she told him he would have to pay her in order for that to happen.  He should have dumped her then and there.  She was nothing but the worst form of money grubber.  The ending with Carrick and Gwen was what I was waiting for and it was really played down.  I expected more about them, rather than the a-typical ride off into the sunset with not a word more.	2000-12-08
US	51298344	R2080XTKISN374	0061083879	225113211	Chances Are	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chances Are.	What a wonderful story.  The Characters were warm and richly built.  Once started, I could not put it down until I knew that Drake would get over his distaste for women and accept the love that you knew he needed.	2000-12-08
US	51298344	R2QFUH1V4EMOII	0590480871	563139109	David Goes To School	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Do not judge it by adult standards.	The book is written for kids.  My two children laugh during theentire book.  They love it.  It may be simple, but it is a book forkids.  Younger kids do not always have long attention spans and do not need a literary masterpiece.  The pictures are what they focus on anyway.  The illustration is made just for kids.	2000-05-22
US	51298344	R1SYCKHGBQXLE4	0373161492	743376651	Special Delivery	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Special Delivery	This is a typical Harlequin, quick, simple reads.  It is the story of Roberta, a widower who goes into labor on the beach and along comes Kyle who helps deliver the baby.  He keeps in touch through the years and five years later the meet again to celebrate the little girl's fifth birthday.   Predictably, they fall in love and handle all the little obstacles that are  always thrown into a typical Harlequin.  It is a sweet story, but no great  piece of literature.  As long as you expect a quick, simple read, I would  recommend it.	2000-05-02
US	51298344	R3TUQT3AH29ACX	0373092989	678696609	Bittersweet Sacrifice (Silhouette Special Edition, No 298)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bittersweet Sacrifice	I usually ignore Harlequin's and the likes as they are too simple and much too short.  I received a few freebies and read them when I need a quick read.  Bittersweet Sacrifice is the story of Lindy Scott whose hubby dies in an auto accident and her toddler is seriously injured needing major  surgery.  She desperately needs money to pay for the surgery, so she  enlists as a surrogate mom.  Only she becomes attached to the baby and  decides she cannot give it up.  Meanwhile, she meets a man, Zade, at her  job as a secretary at her ob/gyn's office.  Zade is the doc's cousin and  Lindy falls for him.  He falls for her.  Unbeknownst to Lindy and Zade, he  is the father of her surrogate baby.  It is predictable, but a sweet, quick  read.	2000-05-02
US	51298344	R2U08XMO5QG354	1856277291	636288963	Fruit Basket (Country Kitchen Collection Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not only the recipes.	This is one of three out of a set of cookbooks.  The recipes are easy to follow, but the main point is the art included.  The cookbook is also full of paintings (very victorian in style) as well as all of the fruit recipes.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R3K23A3QUWL7EH	0312926286	254780205	The Blue Bedroom: & Other Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A great read.	This is a collection of short stories.  While the stories do not have the depth that her longer novels have the stories are quick to read and are great portraits of life and love.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R36GQC9T2SKN7D	0831773057	767814982	Harvest Fare (Country Kitchen Collection Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not only the recipes.	I found this cookbook along with two of the others in this series.  The pictures (very victorian art) were what caught my attention.  The recipes are easy to follow and most of them call for stuff that comes right out of  your garden.  It is a perfect cookbook for that cool fall day when you want  to stay in and cook.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R3B25ECSJXXKPE	0913589144	557233871	Summer in a Jar: Making Pickles, Jams and More	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A must for home canners.	This cookbook does not look like much from the outside, but the recipes inside are a must for anyone who makes their own pickles, jams, or jellies.  The recipes are simple to follow and there is a lot of variety to choose  from.  The Tarragon Green Beans are always a hit for me.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R25DD15P6KD6KU	0831773073	300208830	The Dairy (Country Kitchen Collection Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not only the recipes.	This cookbook covers some of the best recipes out there for dairy products.  The art used in the cookbook is mostly old victorian paintings that you will find yourself studying more than you do the recipes.  It is a  very attractive well laid out cookbook.  Definately worth keeping.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R3GWE80HE4AD42	1573220701	12783898	Our Meals	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What a surprise.	I bought this in a used store.  What a find!  It is full of really rich foods.  From appetizers to desserts, the recipes are outstanding.  Most are not exactly low-fat fare. The 40-Clove garlic chicken has to be the best I  have found.  It is a keeper.  Do not judge this cookbook by the authors as  I might have done.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R1PU3PZE2IHNMN	1551664933	949324956	Plucking The Apple	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Only a good read.	The book did not flow as smoothly as it could have.  It seemed hurried in places, but mainly the character Tessa really annoyed me.  In this day and age, she just seemed too casual at jumping from bed to bed.  Granted it  does happen in real life, but in this book it just seemed too much for my  liking.	2000-03-28
US	51298344	R3MC2X9JPOU3TM	055358099X	913085943	Cloud Nine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cloud Nine	It is a superb novel.  Like everyone else, the only time I put it down was to grab the whole box of kleenex. You definately need them.  Luanne Rice painted a super portrait of life, love, tragedy and heartbreak.  It is a permanent addition to my collection.	2000-03-11
