US	51298249	R8W1CBA4W8LW4	0534612172	635019486	Theories of Public Organization	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Concise and Powerful	Denhardt's \\"Theories of Public Organizations\\" is a concise overview of public administration theories that have had contributed to the substantive mosaic of the field of public administration. Along a continuum ranging from the early contributors to the contemporary accounts in public administration, including scholars of different epistemological persuasions, Denhardt introduces the readers with mouthwatering fecundity of public administration theory/theories.<br />Denhardt organizes the book around eight major chapters. In the first chapter, the author persuades the reader of the close connection between theory and practice and argues that theory is derived from practice, therefore, how we acquire knowledge in practice and make sense of what is happening around us is important in theory building in that the way we learn helps us to come up with theories that explain what happened and why happened. In the second chapter, Denhardt discusses the intellectual heritage of Marx, Weber, and, Freud, all of whom concluded that complex organizations have important influences on the development of human faculties, for this reason, Denhardt argues that public administration scholars need focus on human issues when spending intellectual energy on public organizations. In chapter 3, the beginning of public administration theory is discussed with special emphasis to \\"efficiency\\" as the primary criterion of success (I strongly recommend Deborah Stone's Policy Paradox!). Chapter 4 discusses the rational model of organization. Chapter 5 is about organizational humanism and New Public Administration. In the sixth chapter, Denhardt talks about the New Public Management movement. In Chapter 7, New Public Service is recounted. The eighth chapter is a summary that emphasizes the intimate connection between theory and practice.<br />Beginning with targeted quotations from Marx, Freud, and Weber, Denhardt argues that large-scale organizations have significant influence on the lives of human beings, because of which one needs to go beyond a simple-minded view that organization theory is about how to increase productivity, a question that addresses only instrumentally-rational managerial techniques, without any palpable regard to personal learning and growth of individuals that populate complex organizations. Drawing from a broad range of public administration literature and epistemological movements that include interpretive/action theory, critical theory, and postmodernism, Denhardt comes up with a viewpoint that public administration scholars should contribute to a theory of public organization that makes a significant emphasis on personal learning, human values and action, and change in public organizations in pursuit of publicly defined societal goals.<br />Although the book is a generic one that gives a copious account of contributions to public administration theory, Denhardt accomplishes getting the core of his message across: there is (and should be) an intimate connection between theory building and learning, a point of view that leads Denhardt to conclude that students of public administration should endeavor to understand how individuals acquire knowledge in organizations and make sense of what is happening around them-different ways of acquiring knowledge lead to different learning processes and outputs. This proposition implies that researchers, too, should look back in order to interpret actions (intentions and behavior) of individuals and groups in organizations. As much audacious as it is, this proposition runs in manifest contrast to the positivist myth that scientific research should stay away from such post factum interpretations that adulterate the theoretical precision of scientific knowledge.<br />There are many interesting propositions in the book, which are difficult to be summarized here. There are a few shortcomings. The chapter on New Public Service could have been a bit more comprehensive. Critical and interpretive theories could have been linked more to public administration (for those interested in these theories, I recommend Richard Bernstein's The Restructuring of Social and Political Theory).<br />Overall, I highly recommend this book to students of public administration.ies could have been linked more to public administration (for those interested in these theories, I recommend Richard Bernstein's The Restructuring of Social and Political Theory). <br />Overall, I highly recommend this book to students of public administration.	2003-07-10
US	51298249	RPLH3YCNB453	0393090000	626952663	The End of Liberalism: The Second Republic of the United States	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Please Just Read!	I should confess that I was surprised when I happened to see that the reviewers have expressed some critical concerns about the writing style of Lowi and the core message the author attempts to convey in the book. First, I would like to say that the book generally, although difficult to follow in some pages, bears a very clear message and hypothesis that provide the basic conceptual and mental framework if one reads through the first chapter carefully. I will try to summarize the leading argument of Lowi within some lines.<br />Lowi is primarily concerned with political transformation in the United States, which his analysis demonstrates has started in the 1930s and had been continuing through the time in which the book was published. What Lowi calls interest group liberalism (IGL) refers to an offshoot of a new public philosophy called pluralism. Pluralist ideology favors a dispersion of power centers so that no group can control governmental power totally in order to impose authoritative decisions on others. In order not to let any group to dominate the public realm, the pluralist ideology emphasizes broad and extensive public participation to determine what kind of public policies will be crafted and pursued rather than granting entire authority of policy making to central government (say, the Congress). According to Lowi, this strong belief encourages devolution of public authority (the authority to make laws and designate specific standards), in a broad and unguided manner, to public bureaucracies in order for a broad number of participants can partake in the process of policy making, for the sake of flexibility. In a nutshell, the new public philosophy is \\"process\\" oriented, not goal or substance-oriented. According to Lowi, there is not even space for law that supporters of new public philosophy argue is so authoritative. However, Lowi's meticulous analysis of political development of the United States shows the reader that this process-oriented public philosophy led the way for public bureaucracies to be captured by organized and strong interest groups.<br />According to Lowi, the pluralist conception and practice of government does great harm, when one considers its far-reaching consequences. \\"Flexibility and legitimacy could only have been reduced by building representation upon the oligopolistic character of interest groups, reducing the number of competitors, favoring the best organized competitors, specializing politics around agencies, ultimately limiting participation to channels provided by pre-existing groups\\" (p. 63). One needs to focus on this sentence carefully just to understand why Lowi expresses a very critical concern about interest group liberalism (IGL). IGL breaks the essential tie between government and politics, and reduces politics into a very narrow space populated and dominated by interest groups around agencies (public or not, the distinction doesn't have much meaning in IGL) that are given authority to implement (or make) policies.<br />Providing too many a convincing example, Lowi demonstrates that this pluralist process has taken momentum in the 1930s, which manifested itself in the changing \\"language\\" of laws (social security is a good example). Since then, the laws have begun to be imbued with ambiguous language that provides no specific standard that would guide the administration to make consistent decisions. According to Lowi, the move from concreteness to abstractness in the definition of public policy represents a watershed in the political development of the United States: interest group liberalism is substituted for the rule of law. Thus, laws lose their unique character as instruments for public control: what is practiced is policy without law, according to Lowi. From social policy, to urban policy, and even to foreign policy, Lowi provides an impressive analysis to illustrate the unceasing impact of new public philosophy. In his cases, what is seen, by and large, are policies, implementation of which are devolved to a great number of agencies, without having any concern to develop a consistent and purposeful policy based on the supremacy of law. The most interesting claim is that this broad and unguided delegation of public authority showed a continuity regardless of who comes to power, Republicans or Democrats, according to Lowi. At the very least, his analysis attests to this continuity.<br />Finally, Lowi offers some cures in order to improve the current situation. First, the author urges a comprehensive codification in order to reassure legal integrity. Second, Lowi recommends a return to a strong juridicial democracy within which legal formality and administrative procedures take a strong hold.<br />Within the book's conceptual framework, the arguments sound persuasive. There is one point that I would like to question. Lowi argues that IGL is a product of pluralist ideology and manifests itself in the ambigous language of laws. However, it is certainly possible that we left behind the age in which we had certain questions, and to which we had certain answers. In an age in which there is a high degree of ambiguity, it is extremely difficult to enact very unambiguous laws. In sum, the change in the language of laws may be a natural and direct consequence of what has been changing in the larger environment. Also, the fact that the move from concreteness to abstractness in the definition of public policy occurs in many countries spanning many continents reinforces the conviction that IGL may not peculiarly be a problem for the United States. Lowi makes no visible reference to this alternative rationale of why laws began to be very ambiguous.<br />To be honest, the book is more comprehensive than what I tried to recap here. Although I am not primarily engaged in political science, I always need a political source that would help me make sense with what is happening or not happening in the contemporaneous American \\"public administration\\", and Lowi's book provides a great help for me. I read this book some time ago with primary intention of enlarging my perspective with regard to legitimacy issue in public administration. I can say that this book provides good insights about legitimacy of public administration and should make a great contribution to understanding of public administration students.<br />Overall, this book is a very illuminating source on American politics and I highly recommend. Also, to those who complain of writing style of Lowi, I recommend \\"The Human Condition\\" by Hannah Arendt (1958/1998) and \\"The Postmodern Condition\\" (1979) by Lyotard, in order for them to be fair about The End of Liberalism by Lowi!mplementation of which are devolved to a great number of agencies, without having any concern to develop a consistent and purposeful policy based on the supremacy of law. The most interesting claim is that this broad and unguided delegation of public authority showed a continuity regardless of who comes to power, Republicans or Democrats, according to Lowi. At the very least, his analysis attests to this continuity. <br />Finally, Lowi offers some cures in order to improve the current situation. First, the author urges a comprehensive codification in order to reassure legal integrity. Second, Lowi recommends a return to a strong juridicial democracy within which legal formality and administrative procedures take a strong hold. <br />Within the book's conceptual framework, the arguments sound persuasive. There is one point that I would like to question. Lowi argues that IGL is a product of pluralist ideology and manifests itself in the ambigous language of laws. However, it is certainly possible that we left behind the age in which we had certain questions, and to which we had certain answers. In an age in which there is a high degree of ambiguity, it is extremely difficult to enact very unambiguous laws. In sum, the change in the language of laws may be a natural and direct consequence of what has been changing in the larger environment. Also, the fact that the move from concreteness to abstractness in the definition of public policy occurs in many countries spanning many continents reinforces the conviction that IGL may not peculiarly be a problem for the United States. Lowi makes no visible reference to this alternative rationale of why laws began to be very ambiguous.<br />To be honest, the book is more comprehensive than what I tried to recap here. Although I am not primarily engaged in political science, I always need a political source that would help me make sense with what is happening or not happening in the contemporaneous American \\"public administration\\",and Lowi's book provides a great help for me. I read this book some time ago with primary intention of enlarging my perspective with regard to legitimacy issue in public administration. I can say that this book provides good insights about legitimacy of public administration and should make a great contribution to understanding of public administration students.<br />Overall, this book is a very illuminating source on American politics and I highly recommend. Also, to those who complain of writing style of Lowi, I recommend \\"The Human Condition\\" by Hannah Arendt (1958/1998) and \\"The Postmodern Condition\\" (1979) by Lyotard, in order for them to be fair about The End of Liberalism by Lowi!	2003-06-14
US	51298249	R2FMNBSSB1F3U5	0312052073	769358023	Preface to Public Administration: A Search for Themes and Direction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	American PA: What It is and Why It is?	\\"The most striking feature of America's public administration thought at the founding of the United States was its absence\\" (p. 19).<br />In the \\"Preface to Public Administration\\" Stillman (1991) presents a very interesting set of explanations about the past of American public administration and the impact of that past on what is happening or not happening in the contemporaneous public administration (despite much efforts) in the country. Stillman (1991) connects the Republican ideals, embedded in the principles such as the elimination of the king, heredity, hierarchy, privilege, noble titles, and tradition as a basis of rule, and above all, elimination of anything that smacks of royal bureaucracy or administration and substitution of an electoral system based on consent of the people (p. 22), to the historical direction and progress of public administration in the United States. That political history matters too much to understand the practice of American public administration with its peculiar tensions and problems echoes in the Preface to Public Administration. A number of American public administration scholars, perhaps the most renowned of whom is Dwight Waldo (1948; 1984), have long attempted to tie the political philosophy and traditions of the United States more intimately to the seemingly politics-free public administration theory and practice in the United States. Stillman is surely one of those scholars that skillfully and convincingly demonstrate to the reader that the \\"stateless origins\\" of American public administration have had as much influence on the historical course of public administration.<br />I will try to summarize Stillman's thesis in a very concise way. Stillman (1991) argues that the Founding Fathers of the United States, who were passionate antagonists of a powerful administration that they associated with corrupted power, designed a system of government based on the checks and balances in which no individual, group or institution was much more powerful than each other so as to predominate the political arena to its own interest. The framers of American Constitution lived in an era when government was the power and the bulk of society was made up of simple, frugal, individual businessmen and farmers. They could not envision a country in which massive and competing private sources of power (corporations) came into existence and complex problems of massive urbanization occurred and the two World Wars broke out that all would encourage the emergence of \\"new American state\\" largely outside the Constitution, in piecemeal, extra-constitutional fashion. In the Europe, public administration theory and practice was derived from and integrated intimately to the political philosophy of that continent in a more orderly and symmetrical, a more prudent, a more articulate, and a more cohesive fashion. As a result, a more powerful state bureaucracy was created in European continent. What happened in the United States was the quite reverse of European-like progress of public administration: a more internally competitive, more experimental, a nosier and less coherent, less powerful bureaucracy within its own governmental system.  Public administration emerged and developed in America not as an offspring of a state-centered political theory but as a product of temporal reactions and responses to the rising problems of society such as the emergence of corruption-prone big corporations, massive urbanization process and its problems and the like that required orderly and expert action from administration.  As problems emerged, new programs and agencies were placed into operation, with public bureaucracies functioning in a system in which power is perceived to be grabbed and to be corruption-prone, and therefore, to be fragmented to its extreme. In such a landscape, public administration turned out to be dispersed and incoherent, and partly disabled to be effective. What at present times the observers of American publicadministration see as incoherency, diversity, tension, and powerlessness in administration, according to Stillman (1991) resulted from the stateless origins of public administration that were the by-products of American political beliefs.<br />The book is organized around eight major chapters. In the first five chapters, Stillman (1991) gives detail to the stateless origin of American public administration and its impact on the historical progress and contemporary problems of public administration. In the sixth chapter, Stillman (1991) shows the incoherent and diverse nature of American public administration theory that is manifest in its drive to a great degree of specialization in texts, teaching, and training. In the seventh chapter, the author compares four competing visions of state (no state, bold state, pre-state, and pro-state), with each one's advantages and disadvantages. In the eighth chapter, Stillman (1991) discusses the future of American public administration, with some recommendations for a synthesis.<br />Overall, Stillman's book deserves to be a public administration classic and I highly recommend this master to the students of public administration. Also recommended are \\"Administrative State\\" by Dwight Waldo (1948), \\"America the Unusual\\" by John Kingdon (1998), \\"The Enterprise of Public Administration\\" by Dwight Waldo (2001), and \\"Creating the American State\\" by Richard Stillman (2002).administration see as incoherency, diversity, tension, and powerlessness in administration, according to Stillman (1991) resulted from the stateless origins of public administration that were the by-products of American political beliefs.  <br />The book is organized around eight major chapters. In the first five chapters, Stillman (1991) gives detail to the stateless origin of American public administration and its impact on the historical progress and contemporary problems of public administration. In the sixth chapter, Stillman (1991) shows the incoherent and diverse nature of American public administration theory that is manifest in its drive to a great degree of specialization in texts, teaching, and training. In the seventh chapter, the author compares four competing visions of state (no state, bold state, pre-state, and pro-state), with each one's advantages and disadvantages. In the eighth chapter, Stillman (1991) discusses the future of American public administration, with some recommendations for a synthesis.  <br />Overall, Stillman's book deserves to be a public administration classic and I highly recommend this master to the students of public administration. Also recommended are \\"Administrative State\\" by Dwight Waldo (1948), \\"America the Unusual\\" by John Kingdon (1998), \\"The Enterprise of Public Administration\\" by Dwight Waldo (2001), and \\"Creating the American State\\" by Richard Stillman (2002).	2003-01-21
US	51298249	R1ZKXDMMAL31TI	1889119423	397522229	The Politics of Public Budgeting: Getting and Spending, Borrowing and Balancing	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Real-time Budgeting View	Those of you who read Aaron Wildavsky's  (1979) \\"Politics of the Budgetary Process\\" know the big debate over public budgeting between those who believe public budgeting process is politically incremental and, therefore, who focus mainly on the individual actors and their strategies, and those who propose a more comprehensive and global outlook that focus on dynamics in the larger environment, which subsequently affect and shape how individual actors behave and respond to episodes.<br />Rather than approaching public budgeting from the narrow perspective of incremental view of public budgeting, which sees budgeting as negotiations among a group of routine actors, bureaucrats, budget officials, chief executives, and legislators, who meet each year and bargain to resolution, in \\"The Politics of Public Budgeting\\" Rubin (2000) develops what she calls \\"real-time budgeting\\" perspective, which refers to the continual adjustment of decisions in each stream to decisions and information coming from other streams and from the environment. Streams include:<br />The Revenue Cluster: Revenue decisions include technical estimates of how much income will be available for the following year, assuming no change in the tax structures, and policy decisions about changes in the level or type of taxation. Will taxes be raised or lowered? Will tax breaks be granted, and if so, to whom, for what purpose. Which tax sources will be emphasized, which de-emphasized, with what effect on regions and economic classes, or on age groups?<br />The Budget Process Cluster: The process cluster concerns how to make budget decisions. Who should participate in the budget deliberations? How influential should interest groups be? How much power should the legislature have? How should the work be divided, and when should particular decisions be made?<br />The Expenditure Cluster: The expenditure cluster involves some technical estimates of likely expenditures such as for grants that are dependent on formulas and benefit programs whose costs depend on the level of unemployment. Policy relevant expenditure questions involve which programs will be funded at what level, who will benefit from public programs and who will not, and similar questions.<br />The Balance Cluster: The Balance cluster concerns the basic budgetary question of whether the budget has to be balanced each year with each year's revenues, or whether borrowing is allowed to balance the budget, and if so, how much, for how long, and for what purposes.<br />Budget Implementation Cluster: Budget implementation cluster concerns the basic budgetary questions of how close actual expenditures should be to the ones planned in the budget, how one can justify variation from the budget plan, and the budget can be remade after it is approved during the budget year.<br />According to Rubin (2000), \\"budget outcomes are not solely the result of budget actors negotiating with one another in a free-for-all; outcomes depend on the environment, and on the budget process as well as individual strategies\\". \\"Individual strategies have to be framed in a broader context than simply perceived self-interest\\" (p. 33). What happens in the clusters consequentially is affected by the global environment of public budgeting and the perceptions and strategies of individual budget actors are adjusted accordingly. The clusters model of Rubin (2000) reminisces the \\"policy environments framework\\" (developed by Nakamura and Smallwood [1980]) that views public policy process as a simultaneously interaction among individual actors, elements of importance and arenas of power in three policy environments (policy formation, policy implementation and policy evaluation environments) with each environment having influence on the other ones with the help of communication linkages that let each actor in one environment the opportunity to send message to the others in the other environments. In Rubin's real-time budgeting view, each cluster is imbued withdifferent questions and each cluster attracts a different characteristic set of actors and generates its typical pattern of politics (p. 27) and what happens in each cluster is influenced by the episodes in the larger policy environment.<br />Based on the real-time view of public budgeting, Rubin (2000) organizes her book into nine major chapters, with each chapter explaining the clusters in detail and supporting arguments with didactic short case studies. In general, the book provides the reader with a dynamic and rich description of budgeting process in public sector.<br />Having reviewed public budgeting process, Rubin (2000) recommends that a balance of power should be established and maintained between the executive and the legislature, so one can catch the other at bad practice-a recommendation running contrary to the argument that to solve federal budget deficit problem either the executive or the legislature has to be empowered.<br />Overall, Rubin's book is a well-written, clear, and descriptive account of public budgeting process, and, so entertaining and engaging that create a sense in the reader that s/he should read more about the subject to better comprehend the complexity and dynamism of public budgeting. I recommend \\"The Politics of Public Budgeting\\" as a powerful text to those who are interested in the subject. Also recommended are \\"Politics of the Budgetary Process\\" by Aaron Wildavsky (1979),  \\"Public Budgeting Systems\\" by Robert D. Lee and Ronald W. Johnson (1998), \\"Public Budgeting in America\\" by Thomas D. Lynch (1995), and \\"The Federal Budget: Politics, Policy, Process\\" by Allen Schick (2000).ith different questions and each cluster attracts a different characteristic set of actors and generates its typical pattern of politics (p. 27) and what happens in each cluster is influenced by the episodes in the larger policy environment. <br />Based on the real-time view of public budgeting, Rubin (2000) organizes her book into nine major chapters, with each chapter explaining the clusters in detail and supporting arguments with didactic short case studies. In general, the book provides the reader with a dynamic and rich description of budgeting process in public sector. <br />Having reviewed public budgeting process, Rubin (2000) recommends that a balance of power should be established and maintained between the executive and the legislature, so one can catch the other at bad practice-a recommendation running contrary to the argument that to solve federal budget deficit problem either the executive or the legislature has to be empowered. <br />Overall, Rubin's book is a well-written, clear, and descriptive account of public budgeting process, and, so entertaining and engaging that create a sense in the reader that s/he should read more about the subject to better comprehend the complexity and dynamism of public budgeting. I recommend \\"The Politics of Public Budgeting\\" as a powerful text to those who are interested in the subject. Also recommended are \\"Politics of the Budgetary Process\\" by Aaron Wildavsky (1979),  \\"Public Budgeting Systems\\" by Robert D. Lee and Ronald W. Johnson (1998), \\"Public Budgeting in America\\" by Thomas D. Lynch (1995), and \\"The Federal Budget: Politics, Policy, Process\\" by Allen Schick (2000).	2002-12-20
US	51298249	R1LWSSHVQ8F0M7	0801803284	521696982	The Forest Ranger: A Study in Administrative Behavior	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Case Study in the Golden Age of PA	First published in 1960, The Forest Ranger is an impressive study of the United States Forest Service. In the book, Kaufman (1960/1967) case studies the behavior of district rangers in the Forest Service and endeavors for an answer to the question of how policies formulated by policy executives are realized into integrated action by a service whose field personnel operate under varied conditions. \\"Even in agencies with simple, routine responsibilities, welding the behavior of field personnel into integral patterns is often a trying experience\\" (p. 25). In an agency which is as much dispersed and heterogeneous as the Forest Service, is it possible to secure an integrated and coherent policy implementation across a great number of the districts? If you believe it is impossible, I strongly recommend you to have a look at The Forest Ranger by Herbert Kaufman.<br />The readers who are familiar with Herbert Simon should remember his masterpiece \\"Administrative Behavior\\" in which the author at \\"theoretical level\\" demonstrated what takes for the leaders of administrative agencies to direct, manage, and run largely staffed and complex organizations. Simon (1947/1997) spent his intellectual energy for an inquiry into the decision-making process, and knitted his theory around it by developing an impressive understanding that helped the readers to sense that \\"integrated policy action\\" depends on the degree that the leaders can control the \\"environment\\" of decision-making so that every individual employee in the organization adjusts his/her decisions to common objectives fashioned by policy makers. Organization design, implicitly, stood out as prerequisite for integrated policy action, with \\"organization design\\" serving to bring decision premises and necessary data to the attention and use of decision-makers. Herbert Kaufman (1960/1967), in The Forest Ranger, demonstrates vividly how once a \\"theory\\" becomes a reality in the case of the United States Forest Service.<br />I would not want to summarize the case study with the fear that I am likely to discolor a vivid masterpiece. Suffice to say that at present times in which orthodox public administration theory is being transformed by a new body of knowledge and skills, this case study should present (sometimes poignantly) the assumptions, ideals, weaknesses and strengths of orthodox public administration in its \\"golden age\\" that has reached a final stage in our contemporary times.<br />This classic book is organized into seven major chapters. The first chapter gives a summary of research design, data collection and analysis procedures, and the plan of the book. The second chapter makes the reader familiar with the size and complexity of the Forest Service with accompanying challenges to integrated policy action. The third chapter elucidates the challenges to unity that emanate from internal communication problems, the potential for field officers to be captured by local populations, personal preferences of field officers, and the like. In the fourth chapter, Kaufman (1960/1967) gives detail to the procedural devices used by the service leaders in order to \\"preform\\" decisions of individual employees (controlling the environment of decision). The fifth chapter shows how the Forest Service executives detect and discourage deviation from official policies. The sixth chapter explains the means by which the Forest Service leaders develop will and capacity in their employees to conform with the policy expectations. The seventh chapter is a conclusion with final remarks on the success level of policies in the Forest Service and ethical-moral implications.<br />If you are not comfortable with abstract theoretical constructs and need more concrete examples, skip The Functions of the Executive by Chester Barnard (1938/1968), Administrative Behavior by Herbert Simon (1947/1997), Organizations in Action by James Thompson (1967) or Leadership in Administration by Philip Selznick (1957/1984), and read Herbert Kaufman. Once you read The Forest Ranger can you return to these masterpieces and I believe you are more likely then to digest their theories and understandings.<br />If you are not very interested in public administration theory, The Forest Ranger is worth reading even due to its excellence as a case study that would help the readers in designing their own case studies for research purposes.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this classic to the readers.Herbert Kaufman. Once you read The Forest Ranger can you return to these masterpieces and I believe you are more likely then to digest their theories and understandings. <br />If you are not very interested in public administration theory, The Forest Ranger is worth reading even due to its excellence as a case study that would help the readers in designing their own case studies for research purposes.  <br />Overall, I highly recommend this classic to the readers.	2002-12-15
US	51298249	RLI6ZQ9P4M90F	0787901296	520396004	Public Participation in Public Decisions: New Skills and Strategies for Public Managers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Public Participation: A Contingency Framework	Public participation in public decisions has been an enduring theme promoted by both public administration scholars and practitioners, behind of which has been a fix belief in its positive impact on the quality and responsiveness of public decisions, implementation efficiency and cost-effectiveness, and its potential to unchain the power of public ideas and to develop a strong sense of civic engagement-a subsistence for broader and intense practice of democracy. Beginning with the Great Society legislations of the 1960s that required maximum feasible participation of communities in development projects, the sensibility in favor of a broader public participation has turned to be a mandate. Unorthodox public administration currents, including New Public Administration of the 1970s and 1980s, and New Public Management of the 1990s, have consistently called for broader and engaged public participation in the hope that broader public involvement would bring about wide-ranging benefits, some of which have been mentioned in the preceding lines.<br />Though fed by a religious-like persuasion, most of the early scholars in the trench of public participation neglected or failed in developing a contingency model of public participation that would help public managers to analyze the context of public participation so that a productive, engaged and distortion-free dialogue process accompanied by public participation could be planned and achieved. Deprived of a fully understanding of a productive public participation process, first public participation initiatives taken by public managers proved to be frustrating for both undertaking public agencies and aspiring community participants.<br />The book I am reviewing is really such one that comes up with a contingency framework for public participation that thoroughly inquires into \\"when and how\\" questions of public participation, with having a number of productive, well-crafted, and context-dependent strategies and recommendations.<br />Public Participation in Public Decisions is organized around ten major chapters. In the first three chapters of the book, Thomas (1995) gets readers to three points. First, the author criticizes the orthodox public administration theory due to its lack of enthusiasm for public participation; second, justifies the necessity for public participation with numerous reasons; and finally, points to the importance of finding a \\"practical\\" approach to public involvement for making it really work rather than keeping it as \\"rhetoric\\". From the fourth to the eight chapters, Thomas (1995) explains the important parameters in public participation process. The parameters point out the critical decision points as to when and how public administrators should involve citizens in public decisions. In the ninth chapter, Thomas (1995) pays attention to the new forms of public involvement including ombudspersons and action centers, co-production and volunteerism. The tenth chapter includes a summary view and concludes with some recommendations to the public administrators for them to be effective in the age of public participation and involvement.<br />The Effective Decision Model Thomas (1995) advances throughout the book rests on the organizational participation process developed by Vroom and Yetton (1973). Thomas (1995) proposes five options for decision making: (1) autocratic or autonomous decision-making, with no public involvement or influence; (2) modified autonomous public decision making in which the manager seeks information from segments of the public, but decides alone in a manner that may or may not reflect the group influence; (3) consultative decision making, with a limited but significant public role; (4) segmented public consultation in which the manager shares the problem separately with segments of the public, getting ideas and suggestions, then makes a decision that reflects group influence, and; (5) public decision making, with the extensive influence of a decision made jointly by the manager and the public (p. 39). To make the long shorter, two points are important. First, public participation does not suggest, all the time, direct and bodily involvement of public. Second, the influence of public increases as the public manager moves on from the first to the fifth option.<br />For the question of which decision-making option public managers should opt, Thomas (1995) develops mainly two parameters: the need for quality and the need for acceptability of a decision. In cases when the technical standards and requirements (quality) outweigh the acceptability of public decision by community, Thomas (1995) recommends some degree of public participation, otherwise, an increasing degree of public participation. In cases where the need for decision quality and decision acceptability are equally important, the author recommends a number of decision options to be used in combination. In addition to the two main parameters, there are a number of other questions that would help public managers to analyze the context, for example, such as the structure of the problem, composition of the relevant public, and conflict or agreement within the relevant public. Thomas (1995) draws so meticulously a framework out of his assessments contingent on the combination of different contextual circumstances that appear in the book as configurations.<br />I do not take all the \\"configurations\\" to the letter to presume the book as a cook-recipe, however, in the book's entirety, I sense them to be really helpful and thought provoking. I recommend patience before turning theoretical understandings into normative roadmaps. This book should encourage the reader to re-configure and re-interpret the parameters and contextual specifics in creative ways, and to add new ones.<br />Robert Denhardt, in his praise for Public Participation in Public Decisions, remarks that this book \\"sets the stage for a revitalization of democracy at the local level\\", and I agree with him. I believe only lamenting for democracy is not enough for making it work. Democracy needs not just a set of normative propositions and institutions but also a number of well-crafted strategies that address the context (see, i.e., Barber, 1984; Forester, 1989; Flyvbjerg, 1998) that would push democracy along. From this angle, Thomas' book is surely a treasure, not only for it demonstrates the challenges ahead but also for it comes with something that can be helpful for \\"helping\\" to decide what to do next.<br />I would highly recommend.decision made jointly by the manager and the public (p. 39). To make the long shorter, two points are important. First, public participation does not suggest, all the time, direct and bodily involvement of public. Second, the influence of public increases as the public manager moves on from the first to the fifth option. <br />For the question of which decision-making option public managers should opt, Thomas (1995) develops mainly two parameters: the need for quality and the need for acceptability of a decision. In cases when the technical standards and requirements (quality) outweigh the acceptability of public decision by community, Thomas (1995) recommends some degree of public participation, otherwise, an increasing degree of public participation. In cases where the need for decision quality and decision acceptability are equally important, the author recommends a number of decision options to be used in combination. In addition to the two main parameters, there are a number of other questions that would help public managers to analyze the context, for example, such as the structure of the problem, composition of the relevant public, and conflict or agreement within the relevant public. Thomas (1995) draws so meticulously a framework out of his assessments contingent on the combination of different contextual circumstances that appear in the book as configurations. <br />I do not take all the \\"configurations\\" to the letter to presume the book as a cook-recipe, however, in the book's entirety, I sense them to be really helpful and thought provoking. I recommend patience before turning theoretical understandings into normative roadmaps. This book should encourage the reader to re-configure and re-interpret the parameters and contextual specifics in creative ways, and to add new ones.  <br />Robert Denhardt, in his praise for Public Participation in Public Decisions, remarks that this book \\"sets the stage for a revitalization of democracy at the local level\\", andI agree with him. I believe only lamenting for democracy is not enough for making it work. Democracy needs not just a set of normative propositions and institutions but also a number of well-crafted strategies that address the context (see, i.e., Barber, 1984; Forester, 1989; Flyvbjerg, 1998) that would push democracy along. From this angle, Thomas' book is surely a treasure, not only for it demonstrates the challenges ahead but also for it comes with something that can be helpful for \\"helping\\" to decide what to do next. <br />I would highly recommend.	2002-12-14
US	51298249	RAN243UCCA41C	0520056167	688442061	Strong Democracy: Participatory Politics for a New Age	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Strong versus Thin Democracy	Beginning with a frontal attack on the liberal democratic theory, which is grounded on and ramified from epistemological premises that are largely pre-historical and pre-theoretical, and stretching to the practical propositions aiming and helping to create a new sense of citizenship and community, Barber produces a masterpiece that can be perused over and over again. Well cognizant of the problems created by the heavy emphasis of liberal democratic theory on atomized individualism, through which social system is deemed not more than the competing atoms who are presupposed in permanent fight to all others, Barber packages his arguments in a highly pragmatic bag that goes far beyond the kind of demagogic platitude.<br />I read a number of books whose focus is on how to develop a strong democracy in both national and grass-roots levels, some of which are set on either pure theory or practice lacking ideational power. Strong democracy discerns itself from those that were written in the similar veins in that Barber knits all his arguments together cleverly based on both epistemological and practical weaknesses of what he objects, from which Barber's thesis comes, and practical ways toward and the tools for what he advocates: strong democracy.<br />Barber persuasively displays the importance of citizenship that is closely linked to and associated with the active engagement and participation in the affairs of community to promote the betterment of the commune of which individual citizen is a part. As a response to the unceasing preoccupation of liberal theory with pre-historical and pre-theoretical epistemology taken to practice, Barber points to the very import of community that defines the specifics and boundaries of what liberal theory takes for granted such as liberty and equality, so, the community is rendered much more than the mere sum of individual interests. That is, community is designated as a medium that is congenial to create new perspectives passing beyond the interests and ideas of individual citizens. Barber comes up with a vision under which free individuals of community would convene for the purpose of revealing and dialoguing the common problems facing the community. The community in Barber's vision is a pragmatic one, hardly dependent on any overarching set of pre-historical principles.<br />The book is organized around ten chapters, the first five of which deal with the core assumptions and frames (pre-conceptual, epistemological and psychological frames) of liberal theory, thereby Barber displays how liberal theory has misguided the practice of democracy in the twentieth century, with consequences being the anomie on the part of citizens and thin democracy in general. The last five chapters are spent for developing theory for strong democracy, the kind of democracy sharing less commonality with liberal representative democracy. In the lexicon of the book, the more the individual participates in the affairs of community, the more the individual becomes a citizen, so that politics for him/her becomes a way of living rather than a meaningless ritual. Therefore, representative government changes itself into the self-governing by community. For reaching what Barber offers, there is a number of very interesting propositions in the book that target at developing a powerful sense of active citizenship and community. The argument of Barber resembles how Danish scholar Bent Flyvbjerg (in Rationality and Power, 1998) depicts democracy: democracy as a form of governing that is fought for, day in and day out, to make it work rather than being a final point that is obtained for once and retained forever. Politics, of course, stands for the daily activity on the part of citizens for making democracy work.<br />Although a meticulously woven and spellbindingly presented theory of strong democracy this book is, I recommend, it should be read together with two important books, of which the first is \\"The Idea of Civil Society\\" by Adam Seligman, therein the importance of individualism-to which Barber objects with cautionary reservation-for both the sustenance and promotion of equality and pluralism as an antidote (or balance) to the exclusionary tendency of communitarian solidarity, is stressed. The other book is \\"Making Democracy Work\\" by Robert Putnam in which the interrelationship between active civic engagement and high performance governance is empirically documented by which elucidates how \\"enlightened self-interest\\" ought to be understood in the relational context of community-citizen interaction.<br />Yet, you can find some points in the book to which you would be in opposition, you may try to complement the creative and frank vision of Barber by chinking in further, of course, If you \\"will\\". This is a highly recommended classic by all standards.by Adam Seligman, therein the importance of individualism-to which Barber objects with cautionary reservation-for both the sustenance and promotion of equality and pluralism as an antidote (or balance) to the exclusionary tendency of communitarian solidarity, is stressed. The other book is \\"Making Democracy Work\\" by Robert Putnam in which the interrelationship between active civic engagement and high performance governance is empirically documented by which elucidates how \\"enlightened self-interest\\" ought to be understood in the relational context of community-citizen interaction.<br />Yet, you can find some points in the book to which you would be in opposition, you may try to complement the creative and frank vision of Barber by chinking in further, of course, If you \\"will\\". This is a highly recommended classic by all standards.	2002-08-09
US	51298249	R3HN71CEB5Q2GV	0321013492	915529319	Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis (2nd Edition)	Books	5	84	89	N	N	Impressive Scholarship	A great number of books and articles has been published attempting to explore and explain the Cuban missile crisis that had brought the world to the brink of a thermonuclear world war. Allison and Zelikow, in Essence of Decision, explain the Cuban missile crisis through three different lenses, that is, The Rational Actor Paradigm, Organizational Behavior Paradigm and Governmental Politics Paradigm, each of which is based on a different set of assumptions, each of which has a distinct bundle of organizing concepts and, each of which brings different general/specific propositions for the issue under question. Allison and Zelikow investigate the Cuban missile crisis through the lenses of three models in turn by asking three simple questions:<br />1. Why did the Soviet Union decide to place offensive missiles in Cuba?<br />2. Why did the United States respond to the missile deployment with a blockade?<br />3. Why did the Soviet Union withdraw the missiles?<br />The analyst looking to Cuban missile crisis through the lens of &quot;rational actor model&quot; conceives of governmental action as a &quot;choice&quot; made by a unitary and rational nation or national government. In this model, national government is treated as if it is an &quot;individual&quot; identifying problem, producing solution alternatives and picking one of those alternatives up whose result would satisfy the expected utility function of the nation best based on the &quot;purpose&quot; of the nation. The rational actor model analyst generates hypotheses, for example, about why the Soviet Union decided to send nuclear missiles to Cuba: to defend Cuba, rectify the nuclear strategic balance, or provide an advantage in the confrontation over Berlin? The virtue of the model comes from its power of explanation especially in case it is able to expose the &quot;purpose&quot; of the nation/state. So all the puzzling pieces of the relevant issue under question are to be tied into a coherent and satisfactory story.<br />The rational actor model falls short of fully understanding of the issue under question in that it does not take account of other equally important considerations. Admittedly, the rational actor model neglects the organizational processes and capabilities that structure the issue or problem under question, and, limit or extend the policy alternatives available to &quot;rational&quot; policy actors. In final instant, it is manifest that policy executives have to decide policy alternative from the &quot;menu&quot; that current organizational technologies and capabilities write. In organizational behavior model, the analyst investigates, for example, the standard operating procedures (SOP) of government organizations in order to understand which policy alternatives are available to political actors and which one is chosen and why. So, the organizational behavior paradigm closes the gaps of the rational actor paradigm.<br />Finally, the governmental politics model conceives of governmental policy under question not as a rational actor choice or organizational output but as a &quot;resultant&quot; of bargaining along regular circuits among players positioned hierarchically within the government. In this model, the political actors and their intentions, positions and interests, their relative power, the action channels through which the political actors input and exert their influence, decision rules and similar matters stand to the fore in analysis.<br />The three models, according to Allison and Zelikow, are complementary to each other. &quot;Model I fixes the broader context, the larger national patterns, and the shared images. Within this context, Model II illuminates the organizational routines that produce the information, options, and action. Model III focuses in greater detail on the individuals who constitute a government and the politics and procedures by which their competing perceptions and preferences are combined&quot; (p. 392). Rather than giving different answers to the same question, each of the three models illuminates one corner of the issue and contributes to our understanding. By integrating the factors identified under each lens, the authors argue, explanations can be significantly strengthened.<br />The final chapter of the book in which the authors hypothetically demonstrate how the interaction of the factors identified under each lens can lead to a nuclear war should be perused by those who firmly believe that after the collapse of the Soviet Union there no longer exists the precipice of a nuclear slaughter.<br />Though I believe this book is a must-read for everybody (not necessary to mention all the fields), I recommend this masterpiece especially to students of strategic management who have read Strategy Safari by Mintzberg et al. (1998) for which I believe Essence of Decision will be an excellent field book and to students who have read Case Study Research by Robert Yin for which I think Essence of Decision will be a perfect workbook.<br />Overall, this book is a living example of a dedicated and illuminating scholarship. Highly recommended.fferent answers to the same question, each of the three models illuminates one corner of the issue and contributes to our understanding. By integrating the factors identified under each lens, the authors argue, explanations can be significantly strengthened. <br />The final chapter of the book in which the authors hypothetically demonstrate how the interaction of the factors identified under each lens can lead to a nuclear war should be perused by those who firmly believe that after the collapse of the Soviet Union there no longer exists the precipice of a nuclear slaughter. <br />Though I believe this book is a must-read for everybody (not necessary to mention all the fields), I recommend this masterpiece especially to students of strategic management who have read Strategy Safari by Mintzberg et al. (1998) for which I believe Essence of Decision will be an excellent field book and to students who have read Case Study Research by Robert Yin for which I think Essence of Decision will be a perfect workbook. <br />Overall, this book is a living example of a dedicated and illuminating scholarship. Highly recommended.	2002-05-12
US	51298249	R3LY6PVZ27SBB3	0817304185	486901011	The Intellectual Crisis in American Public Administration	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Bureaucracy and Democracy Dichotomy	In this book, the public choice theorist V. Ostrom examines the intellectual crisis in American public administration that he believes has turned out following the political scandals such as Watergate.<br />The author dichotomizes the democratic administration and bureaucratic administration. Bureaucratic administration, originated with Weber and Wilson, is associated with a system of \\"good\\" administration that is hierarchically ordered in a system of graded ranks subject to political direction by heads of departments at the center of government (p. 24). The bureaucratic administration is assumed to produce efficient results and also makes the government responsible, as opposed to fragmented authority, in that it will be possible to show clearly who is the responsible when failures occurred. Democratic administration, according to Ostrom, is associated with fragmentation of authority and overlapping jurisdictions, and represents the opposite of bureaucratic administration based on unitary command of authority. To Ostrom, democratic administration, indulging fragmented authority and overlapping jurisdictions, is that what founding fathers of the United States deliberately envisioned. Ostrom believes that Wilsonian paradigm of bureaucratic administration has changed the nature of American public administration by leading to numerous reforms that aimed to strengthen the President and by overcoming \\"fragmented authority and overlapping jurisdictions\\" with the promise to \\"make the government more responsible and efficient in solving the problems of the society (i.e., war on poverty). Ostrom explains how the centralization of power in the Executive branch created unfortunate problems that have consumed the trust of citizens in government that divulges itself in the fact that half of the registered voters don't bother to voting any longer.<br />Ostrom attacks bureaucratic administration excellently in a way that I cannot counter-argue. However, I found his Simon interpretation irrelevant and distorted in that Ostrom shows Simon as if he was the first person who challenged bureaucratic administration-although students of Simon know very well Simon did not challenge bureaucratic administration but asserted that when principles (proverbs) of classical administrative theory contradict each other (for example, efficiency and unity of command principles) we are not given any guidelines for priority ranking, that is, Simon proposed a comprehensive administrative theory. However, it was nice to hear a different interpretation of Simon!<br />The point made by Ostrom is that centralization or concentration of power does not always produce \\"efficient\\" results, \\"efficiency\\" changes from one situation to another. Also, Ostrom attacks the false logic of bureaucratic administration, oriented toward efficiency, with the reason that it is interested only in \\"supply side\\" at the expense and ignorance of \\"demand side\\". The emphasis, he makes, is that each decision structure has advantages and disadvantages and when determining one of the decision structures we must calculate and weigh these advantages and disadvantages.<br />For Ostrom, concentrating of power in the hand of the Executive branch and dis-empowering the other branches beget what today we call \\"symbolic politics\\": \\"The Executive offices of the President would then become the `efficient' part of the government; the Congress, the courts, the statehouses, and the other centers of authority would become the `dignified' parts of government relieved of their other burdens of work so that they can devote themselves largely to the ceremonial functions of government\\" (p. 126). Ostrom reminds us the self-fulfilling prophecy of Rousseau \\"One who believes himself the master of others is nonetheless a greater slave than they\\" (p. 146).<br />In the final part of the book, Ostrom explains the guidelines (say theoretical framework) that will \\"help\\" us determine the appropriate decision structures under specific circumstances.<br />Overall, this book is great in its challenge to bureaucratic administration, however I don't believe that the alternative to bureaucratic administration is \\"public choice\\" under the name of democratic administration. Highly recommended classic.specific circumstances. <br />Overall, this book is great in its challenge to bureaucratic administration, however I don't believe that the alternative to bureaucratic administration is \\"public choice\\" under the name of democratic administration. Highly recommended classic.	2002-02-13
US	51298249	R13R5DAWDS4VA9	0817307842	560439390	The Language of Public Administration: Bureaucracy, Modernity, and Postmodernity	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Post-modernist Vision for Bureaucracy	\\"Early visitors to the moon did not expect to encounter entities such as a government, a budget, a paycheck, or a supervisor. Such public administration entities are not natural kinds; they are not givens\\" (p. 11), starts Farmer's book and captures interest of the reader immediately. This book presents an interesting comparative analysis of modern public administration with post-modern public administration that extends our horizons and makes us believe that something, we socially constructed, can be changed.<br />Farmer uses reflexive interpretation as his method. Reflexive interpretation is concerned with why we see (understand) what we are seeing (understanding) and with the possibilities for seeing (understanding) something differently by changing the lens (p. 13). That is, the leading concern is why we are seeing what we are seeing and whether we could see it differently; it is reflexive interpretation. Farmer pulls us to the enjoyable point at which we can relentlessly question our basic assumptions regarding reality of public administration so that we can be aware and change our socially constructed realities.<br />The book is grouped into mainly two parts, modernity and post-modernity. In modernity part, Farmer examines modern public administration's limits: limits of \\"Particularism\\", \\"Scientism\\", \\"Technologism\\", \\"Enterprise\\" and \\"Hermeneutics\\".  In post-modernity part, as solutions to the limits of modern public administration, Farmer examines post-modernist concepts \\"Imagination\\", \\"Deconstruction\\", \\"Deterritorialization\\" and \\"Alterity\\".<br />Particularism, according to Farmer, creates blind spots that prevent us from seeing alternative ways of doing things. Based on \\"American\\" \\"Public\\" \\"Administration\\" he debunks particularism's paralyzing impact. \\"American\\" emphasis impedes looking at different societies to transfer some innovations; \\"Public\\" emphasis prevents public and business sectors from learning from each other and neglects the interrelationships between two sectors; \\"Administration\\" emphasis (based on functional and programmatic POSDCORB) creates competing paradigms that emphasize functions and programs more than their content and action. \\"Scientism\\" (think about fact-value dichotomy) gives no space for ethics in public administration (because ethical values are not open to hard positive measurement), and so \\"administrative ethics suffers from the difficulty of identifying a moral grip for core values\\" (p. 85). Viewing public administration as \\"technology\\" (applied vs. episteme) suggests recognizing that practitioners should assume more ownership for public administration theory (p. 91). However, as Farmer points out, such a viewing makes it impossible to integrate systems and management and ethical considerations. Seeing public administration from an \\"enterprise\\" (entrepreneurial) window, without the system of capitalist rationalization (missing in public service), according to Farmer, is doomed to failure.<br />\\"Imagination\\", a softly \\"oxymnoron\\" at best in modern public administration because of imagination's problem with rationalization, will provide many opportunities, according to Farmer, that are missing in modern \\"rational\\" rule-oriented bureaucracy. \\"Deconstruction\\" of texts (the post-modernist text connotes not only papers to be read, but also anything that can be interpreted such as events and living figures) is expected to enlarge our perspective. \\"Deterritorialization\\" connotes a radical change in the structure of our thinking. \\"Alterity\\" or \\"otherness\\" implies a new emphasis on oppressed, suppressed and excluded groups (i.e., see G. Frederickson).<br />Though Farmer, as an affirmative post-modern public administrationist, is very clear in handling such a complex subject, sometimes he forgets he is writing about bureaucracy and immersing himself in postmodern epistemology and neglects the main subject he tries to clarify. Second, I would not recommend you to think through the lenses of bureaucracy and would recommend to think more radically.<br />I highly recommend this book to readers who are interested in post-modern public administration (you cannot find hundreds of books written about post-modern public administration). I also recommend \\"Post Modern Public Administration\\" by Fox and Miller (1996) and \\"Post-modernism and the Social Sciences\\" by Rosenau (1992).ucracy and would recommend to think more radically. <br />I highly recommend this book to readers who are interested in post-modern public administration (you cannot find hundreds of books written about post-modern public administration). I also recommend \\"Post Modern Public Administration\\" by Fox and Miller (1996) and \\"Post-modernism and the Social Sciences\\" by Rosenau (1992).	2002-02-13
US	51298249	R2OGW3BZ53J08Y	0300087527	614625441	The Market System: What It Is, How It Works, and What To Make of It	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Market System: Understood Properly!!!	The main objective of Lindblom in this book is to elucidate the market system, not only in relation with the economic system but also in relation with the \\"social system\\", about what it does mean, how it does work, and what the alternatives it does have. Though the author is a supporter of the market system, he clearly demonstrates the efficiencies and inefficiencies, and accomplishments and failures of the market system in some important points for the society as a whole. At a point of time in history in which the alternative systems, including socialism, to market system have collapsed and the market rhetoric has pervaded all spaces of civic discourse, especially that regarding public sector management, Lindblom presents an excellent account of the market system that I believe will be very helpful to anybody who is interested in applying the market model to the public sector, and to anybody who believes (sometimes blindly) that the State is an impediment to the effective and efficient functioning of the market system.<br />The book is grouped into three parts. In the first part titled \\"How It Works\\" Lindblom examines the dynamics of the market system that lead to \\"great accomplishments\\". In the second part titled \\"What to Make of It\\" the author focuses on the operating rules of the market system, the relationship of the market system with and impact on democracy and culture. In the third part titled \\"Thinking About Choices\\" Lindblom envisages the alternative system to the market system that is expected to solve the problems of the market system. I will try to summarize some important points below.<br />To Lindblom, \\"a market system is a method of social coordination by 'mutual adjustment' among participants rather than by a central coordinator\\" (p. 23). To better grasp the role of the market system in coordinating the society, the author advises us to focus on and think the society, not the economy. In the market system, millions of people think and act without a great mind's planning and intention (say, central planning bureaucracy in socialist systems). \\"The market system is not a place but a web, not a location but a set of coordinated performances\\" (p. 40). The important point Lindblom tries to accomplish is that \\"it is a mindless and purposeless market system that accomplishes the great tasks of social cooperation\\" (p. 40). The market system wheel is rolled by intended and unintended behaviors of the individuals, but it creates an efficient functioning that was dreamed but could not yet have been accomplished by centrally intended systems such as socialist system. Lindblom approaches social coordination and \\"peacekeeping\\" in close relation to each other. Because of scarcity, according to the author, there is an inherent danger that people find themselves in fight to each other for determining who will get what and in what amount. \\"The market system\\", with the help of its formal and informal rules, \\"produces patterns of behavior that themselves reduce mutual injury and keep peace in the society, quite aside from inducing people to obey the law\\" (p. 44). Although \\"the market system makes societies peaceful, but that is not necessarily efficient, equitable, or humane\\" (p. 44), Lindblom cautions.<br />Lidblom believes that although enterprises and corporations are of critical importance in the market system in making proximate decisions (that transform inputs into outputs), he adds a caution that \\"the more the coordination by corporate management, the less by the market system\\", and he goes on to say that \\"The corporation is indeed an alternative to the market system\\" (p. 78). Why? Because the corporation can become an \\"island of command in market sea\\", by vertically integrating its production and by horizontally diversifying its mix of goods and services In these cases, multilateral cooperation among participants in the market system transforms itself into the unilateral hierarchical decision making of corporate managers,a form of decision-making that is more different than the market system's mutual adjustment, more similar to the central planning system's top-down decision making. This is a very important point that attracts our attention to the vital role of the State in ensuring the proper functioning of the market system and assuring fair competition.<br />Lindblom examines a large number of operating rules that lead the market system to producing efficient results in the domain in which it is mainly responsible and able to. This operating rules ranges from \\"quid pro quo\\" to \\"efficiency prices\\". Though generally market system is seen \\"completely\\" efficient as compared to \\"witch government\\", Lindblom demonstrates how the market system creates and feeds inefficiencies (negative spillovers, income inequalities are some among many others) and fails in many points that necessitate the State intervention to keep the \\"civilized\\" society get across the road.<br />One point in the book that impressed me deeply is how the market system, through its elite, creates (that I can call \\"anomalies in democratic system\\") what Lindblom calls \\"undemocracy\\". Lindblom also wages an effective critique on \\"granting the enterprise a citizen's rights (corporation as citizen) and demonstrates (with examples) how this \\"grant\\" can give (or gave) way to serious problems for the democratic system. In sum, Lindblom believes that \\"a society has to pay heavily for its market system in some loss of democracy (p. 250).<br />The inefficiencies and dangers of the market system constitute no reason, according to Lindblom, to abandon the market system. The alternative to the market system is not radically different from the market system itself today in function, but it is a state-supported market system that is oriented to detecting the problems and providing the solutions that the market system fails to do.<br />This book is supra-excellent that I cannot portray within limited lines. I believe that Lindblom is a great mind and a beautiful writer. Highly recommended for anybody who thinks that s/he knows the market system very well., a form of decision-making that is more different than the market system's mutual adjustment, more similar to the central planning system's top-down decision making. This is a very important point that attracts our attention to the vital role of the State in ensuring the proper functioning of the market system and assuring fair competition.<br />Lindblom examines a large number of operating rules that lead the market system to producing efficient results in the domain in which it is mainly responsible and able to. This operating rules ranges from \\"quid pro quo\\" to \\"efficiency prices\\". Though generally market system is seen \\"completely\\" efficient as compared to \\"witch government\\", Lindblom demonstrates how the market system creates and feeds inefficiencies (negative spillovers, income inequalities are some among many others) and fails in many points that necessitate the State intervention to keep the \\"civilized\\" society get across the road.<br />One point in the book that impressed me deeply is how the market system, through its elite, creates (that I can call \\"anomalies in democratic system\\") what Lindblom calls \\"undemocracy\\". Lindblom also wages an effective critique on \\"granting the enterprise a citizen's rights (corporation as citizen) and demonstrates (with examples) how this \\"grant\\" can give (or gave) way to serious problems for the democratic system. In sum, Lindblom believes that \\"a society has to pay heavily for its market system in some loss of democracy (p. 250). <br />The inefficiencies and dangers of the market system constitute no reason, according to Lindblom, to abandon the market system. The alternative to the market system is not radically different from the market system itself today in function, but it is a state-supported market system that is oriented to detecting the problems and providing the solutions that the market system fails to do.<br />This book is supra-excellent that I cannot portray within limited lines. I believe that Lindblom is agreat mind and a beautiful writer. Highly recommended for anybody who thinks that s/he knows the market system very well.	2002-02-13
US	51298249	R1G39GL35S7RJ2	0871545268	543434830	Street Level Bureaucracy: Dilemmas of the Individual in Public Services	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Street-level Bureaucrats as Policy Makers	In this book, Lipsky examines the critical role of street-level bureaucrats in the policy-making and/or policy implementation process. The traditional model of public policy theory assumes that policy choices are made by the elected political executives and the implementation of those choices are left to the jurisdiction of bureaucrats. Lipsky challenges this line of argument/belief on the basis that since street level bureaucrats have a wide area of \\"discretion\\" when they perform their jobs they must be seen as the persons who actually make the policy choices rather than only implement those choices.<br />Public service workers who interact directly with citizens in the course of their jobs, and who have substantial discretion in the execution of their work are called street-level bureaucrats (p. 3). And, public service agencies that employ a significant number of street-level bureaucrats in proportion to their work force are called street-level bureaucracies (p. 3). Teachers, police officers, intake workers in social security offices are some examples of street-level bureaucrats.<br />Based on the acceptance that those officials, so-called street-level bureaucrats, have a great autonomy from organizational control and the resources to resist any kind of top-down control/pressure (with the help of civil service laws that make it very difficult, if not impossible, to fire any worker) the author focuses his attention on how these human service workers behave under the conditions of their work context. The conditions of the work in which street-level bureaucrats find themselves surrounded are characterized with as follows:<br />1. Resources are chronically inadequate relative to the tasks workers are asked to perform.<br />2. The demand for services tends to increase to meet the supply.<br />3. Goal expectations for the agencies in which they work tend to be ambiguous, vague or conflicting.<br />4. Performance oriented toward goal achievement tends to be difficult if not impossible to measure.<br />5. Clients are typically non-voluntary; partly as a result, clients for the most part do not serve as primary bureaucratic reference groups. (pp. 27-8).<br />The above-enumerated conditions are of critical importance because they affect largely the policy formation (not formulation) in \\"reality\\". The first two conditions force the street-level workers to \\"ration\\" services in such a way so as to reduce the excessive demand on services that increase with the increase in supply, a very similar rationing mechanism to that of being assured by the \\"price\\" mechanism in the profit sector. With this rationing in mind, discrimination becomes an inseparable part of the job of street-level bureaucrats in that since the resources available for distribution are not limitless, some clients are or should be served at the expense of exclusion of others. The third condition forces the street-level bureaucrats to define their jobs in such a way that reduces the role conflict for them and provides a foundation on which to define their mission. The last two conditions make it very difficult for street-level bureaucrats to change their behavior patterns in the short run-the fourth condition allow street-level bureaucrats to avoid any allegation regarding their performance and the fifth condition helps them to shut their eyes to the demands of clients, because clients have &quot;nowhere&quot; to go if they are unsatisfied with the service they receive. This is the general framework of the book.<br />Having demonstrated how street-level bureaucrats behave, Lipsky concentrates his attention on the reform propositions. First of all, the author tries to explain why reforms that bring new performance measurement/control devices for street-level bureaucracies are highly subject to failure. Lipsky demonstrates how street-level bureaucrats change their behaviors in order to satisfy new performance criteria although not necessarily to the benefit of policy objectives, mainly based on Peter Blau's (1955) analysis. What Lipsky offers, instead, is that the structure and context of the work must be changed or reformed in order to produce expected results. Also, strengthening the citizens (setting the conditions that will make the citizens one of the reference groups for street-level bureaucrats, rather than clients to be processed) is one of the considerable offers of the author.<br />Published originally in 1980, this book has received a great deal of attention in the field. Some authors, for example C. Goodsell (1983), attacked on the arguments of Lipsky, especially on those related to the alleged \\"discrimination\\" made by street-level bureaucrats. It should be kept in mind that Lipsky does not attack on the street-level bureaucracy and bureaucrats, but he tries to explain the \\"background\\" that motivates the behavior patterns of street-level bureaucrats. I found the arguments very coherent and, having compared the theory with my own experiences, I agreed in many points with the author.<br />Whether you would agree or not with the line of arguments of the author, I believe this book is worthy of reading, especially for students and practitioners of the public policy. Highly recommended.inly based on Peter Blau's (1955) analysis. What Lipsky offers, instead, is that the structure and context of the work must be changed or reformed in order to produce expected results. Also, strengthening the citizens (setting the conditions that will make the citizens one of the reference groups for street-level bureaucrats, rather than clients to be processed) is one of the considerable offers of the author.  <br />Published originally in 1980, this book has received a great deal of attention in the field. Some authors, for example C. Goodsell (1983), attacked on the arguments of Lipsky, especially on those related to the alleged \\"discrimination\\" made by street-level bureaucrats. It should be kept in mind that Lipsky does not attack on the street-level bureaucracy and bureaucrats, but he tries to explain the \\"background\\" that motivates the behavior patterns of street-level bureaucrats. I found the arguments very coherent and, having compared the theory with my own experiences, I agreed in many points with the author. <br />Whether you would agree or not with the line of arguments of the author, I believe this book is worthy of reading, especially for students and practitioners of the public policy. Highly recommended.	2002-01-11
US	51298249	R2LWTIF2NC0APY	0465007856	218647262	Bureaucracy: What Government Agencies Do And Why They Do It (Basic Books Classics)	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Comprehensive Guide To Government Bureaucracy	This book is really a \\"comprehensive\\" (in the literal meaning of the word), clearly written, richly supported by concrete cases (mostly, federal agencies) guide about government bureaucracy mainly in the United States. From introduction to the end, Wilson clearly and convincingly demonstrates the reasons what the government agencies do and why they do that in the way they do.<br />The book is organized into six parts: Organizations, Operators, Managers, Executives, Context, and Change. In the first part, Wilson's thesis is simply that organization matters. Organization must be in accordance with the objectives of the agency. In the second part, the author examines the operators' behavior (say, street-level bureaucrats) and how their culture is shaped by the imperatives of the situation they encounter in a daily basis. The third part deals with the issues peculiar to managers of public agencies. In this part, attention is focused upon the constraints that put the mangers in a stalemate (see chapter 7, this chapter is completely insightful!!). The fourth part is devoted to the Executives. This part clearly illustrates why the executives of government agencies compete with other departments and which strategies are used in the process of competition and/or cooperation (especially see the 10th chapter about Turf, insightful!!). In the fifth part, Wilson focuses on the context in which public agencies do their business (Congress, Presidents and Courts). In the last part, Wilson summarizes the problems and examines alternative solutions (the market alternatives to the bureaucracy) and concludes with reasonable and \\"little\\" propositions.<br />In the book, I found especially some points very insightful to me. One of them is concerned with the distinction between government agencies. According to the typology Wilson forms the government agencies are classified into four groups. That is, production organizations, procedural organizations, craft organizations, and coping organizations. This distinction is chiefly based upon the visibility/measurability of the organizations' outputs and procedures. In this logic, the \\"production organization\\" is defined as having both measurable processes and visible/understandable outputs (i.e., Social Security Administration). \\"Procedural organizations\\" perform measurable processes, but they have no visible or easily measurable outputs. The \\"craft organization\\" is characterized by having immeasurable processes and visible outputs (i.e., the armies). However, the \\"coping organization\\" has neither measurable/controllable processes nor visible outputs (i.e., the Police Department, the Department of Education). This taxonomy is put forward and used in the rest of the book as one of the main determinants of the problems (and also successes) in the public sector.<br />The second important and insightful point made by Wilson is concerned with the efficiency in the public sector. To Wilson, measuring efficiency is a difficult project in the public sector. Wilson approaches the efficiency from a different perspective that we are not so accustomed. His question is that if the efficiency is the ratio of input to the output, what are the outputs of the public agencies and can those outputs be measured/quantified? \\"Contextual goals\\" sought by public organizations in addition to their main objectives make the efficiency measurement problem more complex and elusive. If contextual goals are taken into consideration the efficiency of the public organization incredibly increases.<br />The third important point is concerned with the organization mission. Wilson sees organizational mission in the public sector radically different from how we learned it in the organization theory courses. To Wilson, organization mission is same with the public agency's culture if the culture is widely and heartily shared by the most of the organization's members. To connect organizational mission to the organization culture provides the author with another insight that in public sector, the culture of public agencies defines their mission (not congressional mandates or paper enactments!!). Culture is formed mainly according to the situational mandates of the work being done (and also many other factors such as leadership). That is, in addition to the \\"organization\\", also the \\"situation\\" matters.<br />Wilson does not neglect to touch another (susceptible) problem in the public sector: \\"red tape\\". To the author, the main reason behind the red tape can be explained with the fact that since there are high risks at stake when the rules are violated there is a \\"tendency\\" to multiply the rules, as (big or small) scandals occur, so as to impede the future scandals and violations that consume the trust capital generously in the eye of the common citizens.<br />Wilson also asks the question why public agencies are not given specific and well-defined goals. The reply to this question is \\"multiplication of interests\\". According to Wilson, as time pass, different interests find a place in the mission of the organization and accordingly new goals (for new interests [supported by politicians] to be satisfied by the agency) are added to the \\"objectives\\" list of the agency (mostly, contradictory to each other). You can discern this dynamic by comparing the total page number of the some enactments today in enforcement with the original page number when the enactment was first adopted (maybe ten years ago).<br />Having reviewed the government bureaucracy comprehensively, Wilson develops some \\"little\\" reform propositions. Wilson believes that if a reform is to be successful, it must take into account the situational imperatives of the public sector organizations, and the \\"reward systems\\" must be suitable to the output expected (this point can be summarized with the motto that DON'T REWARD THAT YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE).<br />Once you have finished the book will you likely to ask this question: Is really \\"bureaucracy\\" not a simple phenomenon? It has always been difficult to summarize the \\"great books\\", and this book is one of them. This book must be read in its entirety. Highly recommended.uthor with another insight that in public sector, the culture of public agencies defines their mission (not congressional mandates or paper enactments!!). Culture is formed mainly according to the situational mandates of the work being done (and also many other factors such as leadership). That is, in addition to the \\"organization\\", also the \\"situation\\" matters. <br />Wilson does not neglect to touch another (susceptible) problem in the public sector: \\"red tape\\". To the author, the main reason behind the red tape can be explained with the fact that since there are high risks at stake when the rules are violated there is a \\"tendency\\" to multiply the rules, as (big or small) scandals occur, so as to impede the future scandals and violations that consume the trust capital generously in the eye of the common citizens. <br />Wilson also asks the question why public agencies are not given specific and well-defined goals. The reply to this question is \\"multiplication of interests\\". According to Wilson, as time pass, different interests find a place in the mission of the organization and accordingly new goals (for new interests [supported by politicians] to be satisfied by the agency) are added to the \\"objectives\\" list of the agency (mostly, contradictory to each other). You can discern this dynamic by comparing the total page number of the some enactments today in enforcement with the original page number when the enactment was first adopted (maybe ten years ago). <br />Having reviewed the government bureaucracy comprehensively, Wilson develops some \\"little\\" reform propositions. Wilson believes that if a reform is to be successful, it must take into account the situational imperatives of the public sector organizations, and the \\"reward systems\\" must be suitable to the output expected (this point can be summarized with the motto that DON'T REWARD THAT YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE).<br />Once you have finished the book will you likely to ask this question: Is really \\"bureaucracy\\" not a simple phenomenon? It has always been difficult to summarize the \\"great books\\", and this book is one of them. This book must be read in its entirety. Highly recommended.	2002-01-02
US	51298249	R39DBY12IDXL1U	0684835827	223000279	Administrative Behavior, 4th Edition	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Immortal Classic	According to Simon, much has been written about actual doings in administrative theory, but less has been written about the processes that precede action, that is, decision-making processes. The main objective of the book is to understand the organizations in terms of decision-making processes. Comprehending the decision-making processes in administrative settings, according to Simon, will give the executives the opportunity of influencing the decisions of lower-level decision makers.<br />The book starts with a sarcastic criticism of classical administrative theory that has organized itself according to the schools and based mostly on principles. Simon demonstrates the limitations of principles-he calls these proverbs-offered by administrative theory scholars by illustrating how these principles contradict each other under specific circumstances. As an example, the author uses the conflict between unity of command and efficiency. When these two principles conflict with each other under some circumstances, these principles themselves do not give us any criteria that will provide us with the priority ranking that will help us to apply one of them. That is, a set of criteria that will guide the application of these principles must be developed. Instead of gathering around schools, Simon proposes that each theory deal with different domains of administrative organizations and knowledge cumulated about these domains be related to each other and be placed in a larger structure.<br />Also, Simon asserts that the fact and value must be separated from each other in a decision-making situation. The truth or wrongness of any decision in any administrative setting must be assessed according to the factual content of the decision, believes the author. I am not sure about how can we separate the value from fact, and Simon does not give any satisfactory answer to this problem. This problem belongs not only to Simon, but also belongs to all scholars that follow logical positivistic tradition of science.<br />The most contributive and thought-provoking chapters of the book are the fourth and fifth chapters in which the author develops the concept \\"bounded rationality\\", a concept that has positioned itself in the history of management thinking. First of all, Simon introduces the concept \\"means-ends hierarchy\\" to base the rationality on a robust foundation. Rationality is defined as the behavior alternatives (means) that will help the organization members achieve the stated ends above his level of hierarchy. That is, instrumental rationality is accepted. But, Simon asserts that rationality of an individual is bounded because \\"the number of alternatives he must explore is so great, the information he would need to evaluate them so vast that even an approximation is hard to conceive\\" (p. 92). Because of the limitations of the psychological environment of the individual, it is impossible for any decision-maker to be purely rational. According to Simon, the pattern of human choice is often more a stimulus-choice pattern than a choice among alternatives (p. 117). Due to information-processing limitations of individual workers the design of the decision-making system becomes very important in that Simon believes that the system must be designed in such a way that brings the \\"necessary\\" data (not much data) to the zone of attention of the individual decision makers. The objective for the executives, Simon believes, is to influence \\"givens\\" of the employees. Division of work, establishment of work practices, hierarchy of authority, communication system, training and indoctrination are some tools to be used to influence the givens of the individuals in a way to better serve the larger goals of the organization. Based on bounded rationality, \\"administrative man\\" makes a decision not to maximize the utility as does the \\"economic man\\", but to \\"satisfice\\". I think this is a great contribution that has taken a respectable position in the field of organization theory, though the economists are still at rational economic man.<br />There are very interesting chapters in the book that symbolize the breaking points from the classical administrative theory. However, one of the most important flaws of the book I believe is its assumption that organizational goals (at the top level) are known so that means-ends hierarchy serves a useful purpose.  If the members of the organization at the top (top management) are not aware or are \\"consciously unconscious\\" of the organizational goals, the whole theory of Simon collapses.<br />I think and see that the later scholars of administrative theory have not followed the advice of Simon to establish a coherent framework and theory regarding organizational thinking, instead the theory has been splintered into different schools, each of which draws a different picture of organizations based on different premises. I believe this is the indication of richness, not the proof of the immaturity of the field.<br />Overall I highly recommend this classic to every student of organization theory. This book is worthy of reading several times, despite the discussible points I mentioned.ion theory, though the economists are still at rational economic man. <br />There are very interesting chapters in the book that symbolize the breaking points from the classical administrative theory. However, one of the most important flaws of the book I believe is its assumption that organizational goals (at the top level) are known so that means-ends hierarchy serves a useful purpose.  If the members of the organization at the top (top management) are not aware or are \\"consciously unconscious\\" of the organizational goals, the whole theory of Simon collapses.<br />I think and see that the later scholars of administrative theory have not followed the advice of Simon to establish a coherent framework and theory regarding organizational thinking, instead the theory has been splintered into different schools, each of which draws a different picture of organizations based on different premises. I believe this is the indication of richness, not the proof of the immaturity of the field. <br />Overall I highly recommend this classic to every student of organization theory. This book is worthy of reading several times, despite the discussible points I mentioned.	2001-12-23
US	51298249	R2FM7YOP970AOM	1566430070	89210595	The Case for Bureaucracy: A Public Administration Polemic (Public Administration and Public Policy)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	I Hate Bureaucracy, I Love Bureaucrats Syndrome	So far, much has been written about the evils of bureaucracy, but less has been written about the accomplishments of bureaucracy. Generally, the message given by popular literature regarding government bureaucracy was one-sided and too far from completeness. In this book, the author tries to draw a complete picture of government bureaucracy. In contrast to popular bureaucracy-bashing writing, Goodsell reaches surprisingly interesting conclusions that contradict long-held beliefs toward public bureaucracy.<br />The overall characterization of government bureaucracy within popular culture reflects that government bureaucracy is overstaffed, inflexible, unresponsive and power hungry. In forming such an image, media and academia have played a crucial role, according to the author. The economists are hostile to government bureaucracy on the basis that competitive markets and profit incentives are feasible means to obtain efficiency; sociologists are concerned with pathologies of bureaucracy; and so on. However, generally, criticism of bureaucracy is not well supported by empirical data. As being different from those who attack bureaucracy based on unfounded assumptions most of the time, Goodsell supports his arguments with empirical data that have been obtained from citizen surveys. In my opinion, the reason for the case is very well presented and worthy of careful reading.<br />One of the arguments of the author is that critiques of government bureaucracy fall prey to the mistake of seeing bureaucracy as a whole (a form of abstraction), and ignoring the differences between different public agencies. Goodsell aptly illustrates how public agencies greatly differ from each other in terms of performance, conduct and so on. Also, citizen surveys support the fact that ordinary citizens are glad from their relationships with government bureaucracy in their local neighborhoods. However, as a general concept, bureaucracy is an oxymoron (this paradox, in literature, is called \\"the paradox of distance\\", that is, ordinary citizens are happy with their business with bureaucracy and bureaucrats, but they have negative attitudes toward `bureaucracy'-the more distant the bureaucracy the more the negative attitude is).<br />Not only Goodsell examines accomplishments of government bureaucracy, but also he convincingly demonstrates the facts that impede the expected success of the government bureaucracy, including vague goals given to bureaucracy, the problems of coordination created by excessive outsourcing (administration by proxy), the complexity of social problems that government bureaucracy deals with, efficiency and equity conflict, and the like. In handling the subject, this book is very comprehensive, and the author files an excellent and convincing case. Not easy to summarize all the points, however all popular myths regarding government bureaucracy I (probably you) have heard are answered in the book with tremendous clearness.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this classic to anybody who is interested in government bureaucracy. I also recommend \\"The Spirit of Public Administration\\" by George Frederickson, and \\"Bureaucracy\\" by James Wilson. The case for bureaucracy is a case for bureaucracy, and you are the members of the Jury. The final decision is up to you.he paradox of distance\\", that is, ordinary citizens are happy with their business with bureaucracy and bureaucrats, but they have negative attitudes toward `bureaucracy'-the more distant the bureaucracy the more the negative attitude is). <br />Not only Goodsell examines accomplishments of government bureaucracy, but also he convincingly demonstrates the facts that impede the expected success of the government bureaucracy, including vague goals given to bureaucracy, the problems of coordination created by excessive outsourcing (administration by proxy), the complexity of social problems that government bureaucracy deals with, efficiency and equity conflict, and the like. In handling the subject, this book is very comprehensive, and the author files an excellent and convincing case. Not easy to summarize all the points, however all popular myths regarding government bureaucracy I (probably you) have heard are answered in the book with tremendous clearness. <br />Overall, I highly recommend this classic to anybody who is interested in government bureaucracy. I also recommend \\"The Spirit of Public Administration\\" by George Frederickson, and \\"Bureaucracy\\" by James Wilson. The case for bureaucracy is a case for bureaucracy, and you are the members of the Jury. The final decision is up to you.	2001-12-20
US	51298249	R35A1S2RFINCS4	0787902950	172881565	The Spirit of Public Administration	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Doom of Public Under High-Pressure Business Rhetoric	Management is management everywhere, in public or private organization,  but the principles you must be loyal to, the context you are faced with, and certainly means to be used depend on the setting, where you are in.  So far, much was written about creating high-performance government organizations by making public organizations much more like business, that is, it was thought to apply business- oriented models to government organizations. This process gained the moment with the splendid study, reinventing government,  of Osborne and Gaebler,. Following this book, lots of  book took the turn to advance the reinventing voice and as time passed, incredible propositions were presented in order to transform public sector into a new structure similar to that of profit sector.<br />This book is an investigation on the spirit of public administration. Professor Frederickson tries to persuade readers about why public administration should be thought of and approached to differently. The relationship of public administration with democratic principles is told in the book. In classic public administration theory, much emphasis was given to efficiency, economy and effectiveness and these performance guides were accepted as surrogates to evaluate how much public organizations are successful. Given this, public administrators were assigned the role to implement policy decisions, imposed by elected officials, with the maximum efficiency and economy. Author tells that these are important, but not sufficient, and another third surrogate -EQUALITY- must be added. Not only equality between  people of today generation, but also between future and today generation is considered important.<br />Recent years witnessed an increasing accentuation in literature on governmental ethics partly due to ethical breaches increment in last years. Author explains these ethical transgressions with the increasing privatization, contracting out (outsourcing), third-party government. To prove this, author presents research findings and literature sources. According to the author, increasing privatization substitutes &#8220;idealism&#8221; with &#8220;careerism&#8221;. Resulting from this radical shift, private benefits and values dwarf ideals of public administration based mostly &#8220;patriotism of benevolence&#8221;.<br />Author strongly advocates that public organization is efficient and effective at least as is business organization. Bureaucrat-bashing reformist rhetoric created some prejudices about public organizations in the minds of citizens and caused people think that public organizations are unnecessary burdens on whole society although people are glad from their close relationships with public organizations in their neighborhood. This is explained in the book with the term &#8220;distance of paradox&#8221;. People do not make a distinction between public officials and elected officials and both are gathered in one category, which is &#8220;public&#8221;. Failure of political officials is connected to whole public sector, elected or appointed. It is not seen as surprise that officials who are involved in corruption are generally officials appointed by elected officials (politicians), according to the author. Second, bureaucrat-bashing propaganda of politicians and attitude of media shape the approach of citizens about public organizations and officials remote from their neighborhoods.<br />Author discusses the meaning of &#8220;neutrality&#8221; of public officials in the context of democratic society. According to the author, neutrality does not mean that public officials must follow government policy with eyes shut. Neutrality means non-partisan policy implementation by placing  democratic values  to the center of public service as essential guide and inalienable factor for efficiency or economy....<br />I would like to contribute to what author thinks about corruption in government. In the book, it is accepted that increasing corruption in public sector is related to erosion in values. But I think that ominous economic status of public officials should be taken into consideration to logically comment on corruption in public sector, especially in third-world countries.<br />That I reviewed above included only most important considerations that I needed to relate. You will find much more such as governance, high citizenship, intergenerational equality, the role of courts in democratic government and so on in the book. I believe that this book is an invaluable study and instigates readers to think on &#8220;PUBLIC&#8221; more deeply. Highly recommended.ic sector is related to erosion in values. But I think that ominous economic status of public officials should be taken into consideration to logically comment on corruption in public sector, especially in third-world countries. <br />That I reviewed above included only most important considerations that I needed to relate. You will find much more such as governance, high citizenship, intergenerational equality, the role of courts in democratic government and so on in the book. I believe that this book is an invaluable study and instigates readers to think on &#8220;PUBLIC&#8221; more deeply. Highly recommended.	2001-06-05
US	51298249	R25IXS56SO60GY	0324021003	171631434	Organization Theory and Design	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Strong Guide in Organization Theory	This is a well-designed and comprehensive book in the area of organization theory. From introduction to the end, this book aims to teach the foundations of organization theory to readers.<br />There is a great awareness of new developments in the area of organization theory. The new developments such as team-based management models are integrated into the conventional wisdom wonderfully in the book.  We are living in a world in which globalization and stiff competition dominates. We name this age as Information Age and corporations need new mentality and practices to adapt to challenging conditions this era brings about. This book presents some new approaches in global competition  perspective to readers.<br />A Look Inside, Bookmark, In Practice, The New Paradigm and Case for Analysis are excellent peculiarities of the book.<br />Diagrams and other visual characterizations involved in the book give readers a big opportunity to digest topics recounted. Since this book is a detailed investigation of organization theory, you may miss some parts and feel confused. I can recommend  another book, that is, Designing Organizations (Robey, D. and Sales, Carol A.), which is a summarized organization theory book with excellent cases.<br />If you want to understand organization theory with its basic foundations and details, this book is a must. You must exploit the rich knowledge of Professor Daft.<br />Strongly recommended.	2001-05-17
US	51298249	R1ZVR855DO4P92	0887307361	60841849	The Reengineering Revolution: a handbook	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Re-engineering Finds The Way	After the magnificent marketing of Re-engineering as a radical tool to be used in organizations in order to increase contemporary performance measures such as efficiency, quality and speed, many organizations have started sweeping grand re-engineering projects  in the hope that they would reach promised lands. But results of such high-risky re-engineering projects were not much motivating. Upon initial results and understood problems of re-engineering, Hammer wrote this book to close the conceptual and practical gaps of re - engineering.  Human side of organizations had been neglected and organizations had been thought as mechanical systems in the first article and book. This book is an endeavor to offset first stage of re-engineering theory and practice.<br />As in other management models, strong leadership  is seen as a critical factor for final success of re-engineering. I think, the reason of serious emphasis on leadership in this book is that some people who practiced re-engineering realized that organizations are also political arenas in which members fight for their privileges and long-term interests. From a humanistic perspective, it is normal to sabotage re-engineering projects which would change power structure in upper-levels of the organizations and would cause many people at lower-levels lose their jobs. It seems that leader is assumed as  a man who would table political nature of organizations and lead people walk in dictated direction despite ominous results for them , namely leader is seen as an authority figure who is expected to overwhelm political conflicts between organization members. Ironically, leaders are also political figures, not neutral personalities exempt from corporate politics. I think, authors should think again on leadership and its role in re-engineering projects. Oversimplification is not able to solve most complex problems of organizations.<br />Although Hammer and his apostles strongly oppose to F.W. Taylor and his approach, there is an important similarity in the logic of their models. Taylor was trying to fully understand the each detail managing the work performed, namely inputs, outputs, and procedures, by conducting time-motion studies,  and after he was trying to find the one-best way to do job. It was possible to find best way if you understand all parts of the work performed. Today, this is absolutely what Hammer does. The most outstanding example of re-engineering is order-taking process that is  too simple, too mechanistic, accordingly very understandable. Will you please tell me, how can Re-engineering can deal with a decision process.  Do people follow a pure-rational mechanistic approach, which is recounted in all management books, when they intend to make a decision. Can you apply re-engineering model to this process which is much complex ? I think, the answer is NO. In this case, Why is re-engineering  presented as a radical anti-Taylorist model ? It is so blurred.<br />We have known for a long time that organizations are SOCIOTECHNICAL systems, but Hammer and his apostles place the emphasis on the technical dimension of the organizations, and other part is behaved as it is stepchild. Organization is consisted of two important structures, which are technical structure (hard structure) and  social structure (soft structure). Social structure is also important and in most cases this part dominates and shapes the other part. Therefore there  should be an equal emphasis on both of them. A pure-rational model which does not take social fabric of the organization into consideration  is subject to failure in practical settings.<br />The other problem of re-engineering I understood when I read the book is that \\"Information Technology\\" is exaggerated to the extent that it is perceived as a panecea.  Such a conviction does not hold truth completely. We are reading and witnessing corporations which invest in information technology (hardware and software) and incur big failure costs. Without understanding the problem within the right context, technology is beyond a solution. \\"Packet problem and packet solution approach\\" should be abandoned. An organization must understand its problem with its real roots (not assumed)  so that it would be able to produce right solution alternatives. \\"Inquiry discipline\\" is a prerequisite for long-run solutions.<br />Overall, I think that should the conceptual and practical  gaps are closed, re-engineering has a high potential to become a strong re-organization tool which would stamp on 21 century corporate  history . This book is a good starting base in this long way.  I recommend this book with three stars.thout understanding the problem within the right context, technology is beyond a solution. \\"Packet problem and packet solution approach\\" should be abandoned. An organization must understand its problem with its real roots (not assumed)  so that it would be able to produce right solution alternatives. \\"Inquiry discipline\\" is a prerequisite for long-run solutions. <br />Overall, I think that should the conceptual and practical  gaps are closed, re-engineering has a high potential to become a strong re-organization tool which would stamp on 21 century corporate  history . This book is a good starting base in this long way.  I recommend this book with three stars.	2001-05-15
US	51298249	R30Q30UD4748WU	007042991X	404429594	Strategic Management (Paperback Split)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Source for Undergraduate-level students	This book is divided into four parts, namely Strategic Analysis, Strategy Formulation, Strategy Implementation and Case Analysis. This book is like most strategic management books in terms of  composition and content, but in part globalization is stressed and soft dimensions of strategic management process such as organization culture and leadership are put forward carefully to complement the hard structure of planning and successfully connected to the commitment philosophy of the strategy. Executive interviews feature in the beginnings of each chapter is very useful to get the perspective of corporate managers responsible for managing complex organizations.<br />For an undergraduate student who is interested in strategic management theory, this book seems a well-organized preliminary  source, but not enough to fully comprehend strategy concept and process approached radically different by theorists in the field. In addition to this book, you should read \\"Strategy Safari : A Guided Tour through the Wilds of Strategic Management\\" (Mintzberg et al ).<br />Overall, I feel that this book would be  a good starting point for students who intend on beginning a study on strategic management. I recommend this book with four stars.	2001-05-10
US	51298249	R1HQGNOVGAFX2Y	0385483813	68780654	Intellectual Capital: The new wealth of organization	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Intellectual Capital : No Longer A Blurred Term	It is my great pleasure to write a review for this important book. Over past years a lot of book investigating &quot;the value of human resource as a competitive advantage&quot; in organizations was published but none of them explained us what human resource and value mean in the larger context of competition, what are practical ways to use of this very competitive resource on behalf of the organization. I herald that this book gives the absolute framework we need for a new and comprehensive study on intellectual capital.<br />According to Stewart, Intellectual Capital is consisted of three interconnected parts, namely, Human Capital, Structural Capital and Customer Capital. Human Capital means the knowledge and skill level of corporate personnel. If an organization has a personnel inventory whose knowledge and skills are vital in the long-run, the first part of the capital forms a strong base to capitalize on. The other part of Intellectual capital, Customer Capital, means that organization is producing value for its customers and accordingly custemers have a strong loyalty to the company. The last part of Intellectual capital is Structural capital which connects Human Capital and Customer Capital to each other. Organizations need structural systems to use human resource in order to meet customers' needs and wants in a more effective way which other companies can not imitate without incurring high costs and time loss.<br />You will find a lot of living examples intended to make these abstract concepts understandable to readers who are accomodated to hear many pop-ups regarding human capital and its value. Overall, I strongly recommend with five stars.	2001-04-15
US	51298249	R24TPEM64Z28FO	0887307396	441586413	Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Familiar Story	&quot;Built to Last&quot; is very similar to the book of Peters and Waterman in terms of content and composition with a little difference, that is methodologically this book is stronger because the theory is worked to be proved by investigating  two companies in selected sectors, one of which is very successful and the other is less successful or completely a failure.<br />You can find important considerations concerning leadership and its mission and function for an organization. The vitality of organizational values, innovation and running risk, challenging goals, organization culture, vision etc., are stressed by the authors. This book is one of the books which propose time and culture free universal principles. You may be pleased by rhetoric, but you must be alert.<br />Overall, I recommend this book to readers who have not yet read &quot;In Search of Excellence&quot;.	2000-11-20
US	51298249	RE6XZP3W1NSDR	0538881828	729783997	Strategic Management: Competitiveness and Globalization, Concepts and Cases	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Strategic Management in the Context of Globalizatiion	This book is a detailed investigation of strategic management in the context of globalization and competitiveness. An integrated approach is used, but firm-based theory of strategic management is stressed throughout the book.  Cases included in the book are chosen properly in relation with the topics, that is theory is clearly connected to the real experiences. Especially, topics titled as \\"Cooperative Strategy\\" , \\"Corporate Governance\\" , \\"Corporate Entrepreneurship and Innovation\\" will be very useful to better understand the planning dynamics.<br />The book is divided into two sections. One is assigned for theory and the other is assigned  for cases. Cases are updated and includes the most popular and fabulous companies such as \\"Amazon.com\\". Overall, I recommend this comprehensive book (1008 p.) to readers who wish to have a grand source !	2000-11-13
US	51298249	RBDWAQAIKZQBN	0873893115	743900167	Managing the Four Stages of Tqm: How to Achieve World-Class Performance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TQM and Its Basic Mental Framework	I think that this book is one of the main sources in TQM. The most important stages for an organization in TQM journey, which are conventional stage, customer-consciousness stage, process improvement stage and lastly innovation stage, are explained and connected to each other in a holistic manner. According to the author,firstly an organization is in conventional stage in which it  focuses on itself, its interior structure and procedures entirely and so customers are ignored. Thanks to the stiff competition, the organization finds itself in an arena  in which it loses its market share and understand the fact that it did not take care of its customers and produced products and services so far, and decisions at large, regardless of customers' needs and wants. After this second stage, the TQM process , which is a journey that has no stop, begins. In process improvement stage of TQM, all processes in organization are structured in a way that clearly matches the wants of customers for highest quality product and service. Process is defined as series of activities  that are clearly defined and interconnected to each other. This stage finishes, but thanks to the innovation and \\"IN Search of Excellence Mentality\\" repeats itself forever. This is the framework used in this book.<br />The traps in Total Quality Management process are indicated clearly and suggestions made. As an approach that equally emphasizes technical, administrative and social sides of organizations, TQM is regarded as a human-focused philosophy. The importance of human resources in TQM process is stressed repeatedly in the context of process improvement teams consisted of employees who have direct and profound information about the process functioned<br />Overall, I highly recommend this book to students who want to learn TQM with its basic philosophy. This book is an excellent chose.	2000-10-06
US	51298249	R1YYFUPIUIH7M1	0134588940	274888756	Strategy Concept and Process: A Pragmatic Approach, The (2nd Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Learn To Develop a Strategic Plan and Capture the Essence	Basically, this book aims at making strategy concepts and techniques very clear to readers. In this book, strategy concepts were translated into well-considered formulations.<br />While reading book, you will see this property many times and it will help you better understand the abstract concepts. When you finished the book, you will be able to  place your strategy theory on a strong base. No longer you will think that &quot;Strategy Is a Staff Work.&quot; This book will give you the framework in which strategic plans are developed.<br />And lastly, you will find a lot of cases related to the theory in this invaluable book. I higly recommend..	2000-10-04
US	51298249	R29R45MC4XRSD1	0139570020	879977864	Principles of Marketing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Source in Marketing Science	This book is one of the best marketing books. The content of book is very comprehensive and embellished with cases that help you better understand the marketing theory. Especially, the most fascinating aspect of the book is its chapters about INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY and its impacts on the marketing concepts.<br />You can buy this book even for its excellent cases. I strongly recommend this book to all MBA students whose interested field is marketing.	2000-10-03
US	51298249	R33LNXS3F0XGEZ	0875846513	129715450	The Balanced Scorecard: Translating Strategy into Action	Books	5	29	34	N	N	You Must Read !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	Balanced Scorecard is an excellent book for prospective business managers because of some reasons. One of them is that the book clearly indicates the logical relationship between financial objectives and other non-financial objectives for the firms. Secondly, the book presents some very usable tools for translating strategy into action. For this aim, measurement tools for strategy are developed. These two priorities makes the book an important source in the field of strategic planning.<br />In this book, four dimensions of strategy thought are \\"Financial, Customer, Operations, and Learning and Development&quot;. Authors strongly believe that there should be a powerful connection among these four dimensions if organizations are to be successful in an environment in which stiff competition dominates. According to the authors, one of the most important cause of business failures is that some companies make an excess emphasis on financial objectives and so ignore the ways to realize these objectives. How to develop a system which makes an equal emphasis on four dimensions of strategy mentioned above is explained in the book. For managers who do not know but want to learn  how to make a plan that will be functional and measurable, this book is a must.<br />The one of the most important contributions of this book is its approach to the Learning Process in strategic planning. According to the authors, strategy creating process is also a learning process and therefore should be exploited.<br />I strongly recommend.	2000-10-02
US	51298249	R94HY5IO1AEGV	088730687X	493813209	Reengineering the Corporation	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Myth and Reality	This book is about re-engineering that aims at changing organizations in a radical way in the expectation that organizations will gain important advantages in terms of quality, service, efficiency and speed. The assumption of re-engineering is that all organizations are organized according to the principles of functional structure and this structure is the main reason of all problems faced by organizations. In this context, re-engineering is presented as a remedy to all problems of firms thanks to its techniques.<br />According to the authors, organizations must be structured by processes. Firs of all, the important processes must be understood and must be recreated in order to meet customers need and wants efficiently and effectively. Some problems are assumed common for all organizations and believed that all organizations face same kind of problems, accordingly package solutions are offered. I think that firstly, an organization should understand its problem and after produce the solutions to carry out its problem.  Without understanding the problem and its real roots correctly, solutions offered can not be permanent and are subject to recurrence. In this book, Information technology is accepted as a \\"GOD\\" who can solve all problems.<br />This great management tool ! is presented as an antithesis to Total Quality Management. TQM is denounced because of its Japan origin. At the same time, Re-engineering opposes to Adam Smith and his narrow \\"division of labor\\" concept. By using IT, organizations can demolish the negative impacts of strict division of labor according to the authors.  Authors decry the routine work performed by employees because of its alienation effect and so develop an emotional sense but does not care the products of re-engineering projects such as unemployment -  a great contradiction - .<br />Basically, this book is based on the experiences of authors in organizations they served as advisors.If you look at recent articles of Hammer, you can easily see that Hammer works to put re-engineering into the conventional structure of organizations and meanwhile emphasizes the human side of organizations.  If you would like to read this book, read it. But you must be the devils advocate in order not  to be entrapped by rhetoric.sily see that Hammer works to put re-engineering into the conventional structure of organizations and meanwhile emphasizes the human side of organizations.  If you would like to read this book, read it. But you must be the devils advocate in order not  to be entrapped by rhetoric.	2000-10-02
US	51298249	RNXP6TQZK4GU3	0538877456	1406380	Managing Human Resources	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Good HRM Material	I have read this book at graduate level as a class material in Human Resource Management. The most obvious priority of Schulers book is its case studies which are developed elaborately and absolutely topic-related. It was my assignment to translate case studies included in this book into Turkish and while I was reading cases, I realized that as I read, I better understood topics. Although cases are impressive in this book, the chapter titled as &quot;The Role of HRM Department in Total Quality Management Process&quot; is not rich in terms of content.<br />I reccommend this book especially to international students whose English proficiency level is not very high because the language and structure of Schulers book is very simple, accordingly understandable. A good source in the field of HRM. Highly reccommended.	2000-10-01
US	51298249	R17ZLQ306SPHEA	0452269423	290075912	Reinventing Government: How the Entrepreneurial Spirit is Transforming the Public Sector (Plume)	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Academic Rhetoric and Reality	This book is about &quot;Reinventing Something&quot; as you understand from its caption. I could not surprize much when I finished to read this very popular book because ;<br />1 The cases included in book to support theory were chosen selectively. I can show a lot of examples in contrary to the framework proposed in Osbornes book but none of negative examples were included. The book is very one-handed and does not project the facts correctly.<br />2 A distinction were not made in this book between public and private sector organizations and behaved as if both of them have the same principles and context. The relation of Public Management with democratic principles were ignored. Basically, this book is a &quot;public&quot; version of the book of Peters and Waterman - In Search of Excellence -.<br />3 The principles propesed in this book are accepted universal and thought as time and location-free. Cultural differences among countries were underestimated. Generalizations pervades the book.<br />4 This book is not based on a decent scientific research and so does not have an academic-quality.<br />Overall, if you want to read this book because of its popularity, you should read it with other strong resources in the field of public administration and management. Some reference materials are indicated below...<br />Mark Moore, Creating Public Value ; Norman Flynn, Public Sector Management ; Guy Peters, The Future of Governing	2000-10-01
US	51298249	RB2H8B5KM5Y4A	0875844162	571072005	Competing for the Future	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Resource-based Theory of the Firm	Gary Hamel, an advocate of the Resource-based Theory of Firm, has created an impotant source together with Prahalad. If you know resouce-based firm theory well enough, you will not be surprised when you read this book. I think, it is a classical work for this theory.<br />This book was developed clearly and supported with cases strongly. Basically, this work was based on distinctive competences of firms and on how to develop these. From this perspective, firms are thought as active entities, not only working to adapt to environment in a passive way, but also creating an environment conducive to the company in a proactive way. The spiritual aspect of Strategy is clearly stressed in this book.<br />A good source in Firm-based theory, but needs more research.. Highly reccommended...	2000-10-01
US	51298249	RO58TRIVTCEHZ	0787901415	491624622	Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit Organizations: A Guide to Strengthening and Sustaining Organizational Achievement (Jossey Bass Public Administration Series)	Books	5	24	29	N	N	A Real Guide For Public Organizations	I have read this invaluable book to better understand the strategic planning process in public and nonprofit sector organizations and I can say proudly that I reached my objective. I think that the most important aspect of this book is that it distinguishes the planning process in public sector organizations from that in the private sector organizations very clearly. The basic concepts in planning process such as Mission, Vision, Objectives, Resources were explained correctly. If you think that a great majority of books in the field of strategic planning are very abstract and confusing, you must read this. I strongly reccommend.	2000-09-30
US	51298249	R2HYHC2U05ZUX5	0684841487	896720440	Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing Industries and Competitors	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Michael E. Porter : The Master of Positioning School	I met Mr. Porter when I began to study strategic planning because each time I read a book I saw the label of Porter. Mr. Porter is a strong apostle of Positioning school, namely he believes that a firm must position itself in an industry by analyzing the structure of it. Today, Mr. Porter and his school is under fire and an intensive attack (You can look at books of Mintzberg and Stacey ! ). But I strongly beleive that Mr. Porter is a &quot;Logic Man&quot;, not an &quot;idealist&quot;. He loves material realities. Although today very popular strategic management perspectives are in fashion, the perspective of the Positioning School are here to stay. Please do not think one-sidedly  about Competitive Strategy by only reading the opposites of it, instead read the original source.  This book is still a very strong classic. Highly reccommended.	2000-09-30
US	51298249	R15X7JHS434SR1	0070678464	3133101	Human Resource Strategy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Some Very Important Issues for HRM	This book is one of the excellent resources in Human Resource Management. In this book you will not only find the common chapters found in every HRM book but also you will find the relation of Human Resources with other important organizational variables such as  planning process and organizational structure. In relation with HRM perspective, Total Quality Management and other useful management tools were explained in Walkers book. This book instigates you to think about the future and to approach HRM from a strategic perspective. An easily readable book, do not wait too much, read it.	2000-09-30
US	51298249	R21YCXSH1QK3HH	078790953X	703054289	Tools for Innovators: Creative Strategies for Strengthening Public Sector Organizations	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Creative Popular Tools	This book sums up the some popular management tools to be used in public organizations with the intent of helping them to meet citizens demands of highest quality service. Including Strategic Planning, Total Quality Management, Re-Engineering, Benchmarking, Outsourcing, many approachments (or tools) that can be useful in restructuring public organizations are told in this valuable book. Readers who want to understand the basic principles of popular management tools developed for private sector organizations (but can be applied to public sector)should read this book. One of the obvious weaknesses of the book is its cases which were not well-developed.<br />Overall, I recommend Cohen's book to readers who have spare time.	2000-09-28
US	51298249	R3W37J7CJ9D774	0875846327	409588717	Value Migration: How to Think Several Moves Ahead of the Competition (Management of Innovation and Change)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Business Design or Technology	This book is based on the relation between business design and organizational performance. Slywotzky explains the main reasons why some companies which are very succesful in the past now in the edge of  bankrupcy. Because of business design that is not accordance with the  environmmental expectations. Only firms which renew themselves in time can  survive competition and continue to create value for customers. Otherwise  the value will migrate to other firms which create it for customers. To  understand the customer and environmental expectations, necessary technics  are explained and examples are given. I suggest that you read this book.	2000-05-31
US	51298249	R3GWRSN3I9QLBJ	0700607943	242459526	The Future of Governing: Four Emerging Models (Studies in Government and Public Policy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Popular Lies and Unpopular Truths	At recent times, lots of book about new public management and reformist movements have been published by varied writers. The most important flaw of the propositions given and models created was the ignorance of the politic realities. And most of the models has been based on pure rational/economic assumptions. Therefore, none of them was completely applicable for public sector organizations. This book gives us some insights about the politic \\"realities\\" of the public sector and its relationship to the democratic context of the society. All contradictions the popular public management propositions hold are explained in the book as clearly as possible. The author of the book puts forward arguements contrary to the popular public management propositions. If you are getting bored due to the myriad popular books and models this book exactly is for you to read and gain an interesting and deeper understanding about the essentials of public administration. Strongly recommended.	2000-03-29
US	51298249	R20HUQAFBDMTVR	0787941026	617641723	Creating High-Performance Government Organizations	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Usual , General, Superficial	Having finished the book, I asked about what I learned .. nothing new. Superficial, usual and step-by-step path. I advice an excellent and strong book that is Creating Public Value : Strategic Management in Government by  Moore...	2000-01-13
US	51298249	R82XRKQPERK8W	0029216052	359567127	Rise and Fall of Strategic Planning	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Realities of the Real Life	I have read varied books and articles of Mintzberg. All of them convey the realities of the real organizations,  not fictions of varied writers and quick-fixer management consultants. This book is about the formal strategic  planning school. Mintzberg carefully and with a great detail put the basic  assumptions of formal planning under the microscope. Mintzberg especially  questioning the assumption that is formal planning is the best way to  create strategy and formulation and implementation can be seperated. This  book is a good source for people to want to move from fictions and academic  rhetoric to the strong and real realities. I advice this book for all sane  and realist creatures. Thanks Mintzberg...	2000-01-13
US	51298249	R1D7S1BWE9A98D	0674175581	899885339	Creating Public Value: Strategic Management in Government	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Strategist  and Technician	This book is an excellent source for practising public managers and academics and students who interest in public administration. As time passed, people, their representatives and public managers change or need to  change their paradigms. Moore indicates the reason why public organizations  must change. Organizational posture and position always must be in  accordance with external environment.  From the perspective of Moore,  public managers  must move away from the technicians that work to  realize  the goals imposed by elected officials with the maximum efficiency to the  strategists that analyze the environment and find new ways for creating  more value for people. This does not mean bureaucrats  are completely free  and can think and do whatever they desire. We know this situation points to  the demolishing of the democracy. But Moore stresses that public officials  must be made accountable for the results and all the time they must be  oversighted by citizens, representatives, press, interest groups and public  at large.  This book is not a How-to-do guide. But we can adapt the  principles proposed to the unique circumstances of our organizations.	1999-12-16
US	51298249	RCZT60O67KB7Y	0674175581	899885339	Creating Public Value: Strategic Management in Government	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Strategist  and Technician	This book is an excellent source for practising public managers and academics and students who interest in public administration. As time passed, people, their representatives and public managers change or need to  change their paragigms. Moore indicates the reason why public organizations  must change. Organizational posture and position always must be in  accordance with external environment.  From the perspective of Moore,  public managers  must move away from the technicians that work to  realize  the goals imposed by elected officials with the maximum efficiency to the  strategists that analyze the environment and find new ways for creating  more value for people. This does not mean bureaucrats  are completely free  and can think and do whatever they desire. We know this situation points to  the demolishing of the democracy. But Moore stresses that public officials  must be made accountable for the results and all the time they must be  oversighted by citizens, representatives, press, interest groups and public  at large.  This book is not a How-to-do guide. But we can adapt the  principles proposed to the unique circumstances of our organizations.	1999-12-16
US	51298249	R28K1R4X9KWJVQ	0684847434	884720425	Strategy Safari: A Guided Tour Through The Wilds of Strategic Management	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Roots of Strategy Science	I am a master student studying Strategic Management. This book was very useful for me, helped me to better understand the ideological postures of varied writers in the strategic management field. With a great detail this  book is very attractive for people who know basic principles of the field (  I think this book would seem very complex for beginners ). An illuminating  tour to the roots of strategic management ..... Have a good safari......	1999-11-02
US	51298249	RWFYUS02UKKNB	0749421096	934668231	Business Process Reengineering	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Early Warning	Thanks to the authors of this book. Organizations can be thought as social systems and We can not propose the mechanical solutions to the problems of organizations as social systems. The problems of organizations can not be  solved quckly because of that all variables are not under control of  managers and especially &quot;management consultants&quot;. Hammer and  Champy think of organizations like machines. I think this conviction  completely wrong. The authors of this book focus the attention  on the  difficulties of the re-engineering process as a radical change method and  stress the human side of the organizations. Re-engineering is a good method  if it is used properly. Thanks...	1999-09-30
