US	51292562	R20C9T8Q6N2SAJ	0060757620	307179068	Shaman's Crossing (The Soldier Son Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	1	141	213	N	N	Sub-par Robin Hobb (or any author) experience	I respect Robin Hobb and what she has done in her previous work; I respect that she didn't tire out three very successful fantasy trilogies and ended them when it was clear that the characters and story line were ready to end (unlike Goodkind and Jordan who pedantically struggle onward with their trilogies that have turned into multiples of what they should have been).  I digress; the main point I wanted to make first was that I respect and greatly enjoyed Robin Hobbs previous work and was therefore very excited to purchase her new work in a new series.<br /><br />I (and you the reader) will be sorely dissapointed if you read this book expecting a typical Hobb performance. The book was dry, boring and uneventful and struggled through the 500+ pages.  I doubted myself as I was going through the book and found myself continually waiting for Hobb to \\"turn on\\" the talent and somehow trick me with one or two very exciting chapters that would have made the rest of the droll literature worth my time to read.  I was wrong; once or twice Hobb inserted some magic and excitement into the book, but the telling of it was was so slow and mundate it was hardly worth the effort.<br /><br />The setting is in a medieval archetype where each son proper born has a place in the world (first born to rule the estate, second born to be a solder, third to be a priest, and so on).  The book follows the soldier son of a man who himself was a soldiers son and the first 220 pages are filled with a day to day recounting the drills, practicing, studies that this solders son goes through under the tutelidge of his father.  At one point excitement almost took hold, but the scene ended and was barely mentioned for 150+ pages.  The characters are lifeless and devoid of emotion; there are hints of depth, but nothing is expounded on in a timely fashion.  If I had a dollar for every time the father lectured the son on how to be an obediant soldier and respectful genetleman, and 50 cents for how many times the son responds in a stuffy and gentlemanly like manner; this book would have paid for itself many times over.<br /><br />The basic storyline takes hold after the 220 pages of home studies when the protagonist goes to the Kings military school to further learn in this studies in becoming a cavalry officer.  The stuffiness and droll recounting continues mostly through this portion of the book as well with a few highlighted characters, but nothing is ever done with them so the net net in overall excitement is zero.<br /><br />I read this book out of duty to Robin Hobb.  I think she is overall a fantastic writer and can be forgiven this misstep in her otherwise impeccable career; I can only hope that the following books are all the more exciting to make up for this one.ny times the son responds in a stuffy and gentlemanly like manner; this book would have paid for itself many times over. <br /> <br />The basic storyline takes hold after the 220 pages of home studies when the protagonist goes to the Kings military school to further learn in this studies in becoming a cavalry officer.  The stuffiness and droll recounting continues mostly through this portion of the book as well with a few highlighted characters, but nothing is ever done with them so the net net in overall excitement is zero.  <br /> <br />I read this book out of duty to Robin Hobb.  I think she is overall a fantastic writer and can be forgiven this misstep in her otherwise impeccable career; I can only hope that the following books are all the more exciting to make up for this one.	2005-09-06
US	51292562	R3LKUIP9TDFZVT	044101058X	769506056	Redemption Ark	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Best of the Best right now	Alastair Reynolds has it, and he is running with it.  Somehow out of a genre that hasn't had much interesting things happen to it in recent history (I think) Alastair has created a unique and highly colorful landscape of technology, characters, motivations, and catastrophes that is simply incredible.  I usually read fantasy, but I picked up Revelation Space and couldn't just stop with that one and continued on with Chasm city and now, Redemption Ark the newest book in his science fiction futuristic series.<br />The complexity of this book alone should win awards within literary circles, the sheer number of plots, subplots and threads of storyline is staggering, but somehow, surprisingly, Reynolds weaves it all together and the reader is completely in the story for the entire length of the book.  I think that this is probably one of the best books out today for science fiction or for fantasy, and I highly recommend reading this book to whoever has a rainy Sunday to read good literature (good luck putting it down once you start.).  I highly anticipate the new book in the series and hope it is as good as the last 2.  Thank you Alastair for bringing some excellent literature to this genre of writing.	2003-11-03
US	51292562	R2QG69EKXKDFAJ	0765301768	472724660	The Lair of Bones (The Runelords, Book 4)	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	A far cry from the previous books	This book provides an ending (seemingly) to the Runelord saga in a very concise and short book.  It would appear to me as though the author had created a fantastic land with multiple storylines of varying complexities and just simply grew bored of it and wanted to give it an end.  The story lines of all the main characters are ended with minimum of fanfare.  The good guys win; the bad guy(s) are defeated in a minimum of pages(the reaver queen and raj ahten) and that is about it.  I think I would classify this book as a let down.  I think the author had a lot of good ideas (the runelords, endowments, the history of the land) and just really let that whole thing go to a waste.  I am not saying there should have been more books in the series (overall I think the series took 10 real days for completion) but I think that a lot of storylines should have been fleshed out a bit and completed.<br />The book ends somewhat suddenly and doesn't realy set the reader up in regards to later books in the series.  There are some storylines that could be continued, but since they weren't well constructed in this book, I am not so sure I would go and read them.  (spoiler) the last 10 pages of the book take place over a few months time (a longer stretch of time than teh entire three books took up)...<br />I think this book could have been great, the only reason I gave it the three stars instead of 2 or 1 was because the previous three books were good, and I wanted to see how the series ended.  David Farland: you can do better!	2003-10-27
US	51292562	R3433QWQ59P2MY	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	SELL OUT!	I thoroughly enjoyed books 1-3 of the Harry Potter Saga.  I didn't enjoy as much, but still thought that book 4 was a good read.  Book 5 confirmed my earlier fears of JK Rawling falling into the abysmal pit of the \\"series sell-out\\" that I think many authors fall victim to.<br />Why is it so often that as an author writes more books in a fantastic series that they feel the need to overstep the bounds and produce staggering 800+ page books that don't really accomplish anything more than the first books 300+ page design?  I don't know, and I hope that for the next book Rawlings takes heed and doesn't try to overstep herself.<br />Many people have commented about the excellent portrayal of Harry Potter as a teenager growing up with angst, anger and emotions; I think it was poorly constructed.  Sure, teenagers have a right to be angry, but I just felt frustrated watching Harry interact and wallow in self pity through his 5th year at Hogwarts.  I think Harry was portrayed as a normal 15 year old boy.  I don't read books about normal boys, if I wanted that, I could look back to my teenage years. Rather literature should accmoplish something: should arrive somewhere.  I think Rawlings had the power in this book to help many teens through this adolescent anger period, and get beyond the anger, if only she had tired to convey a message instead of embracing and enjoying the anger.<br />Overall I think the book was poorly constructed, and probably could have 250+ pages taken out without severly damaging the story line.  I think the paradigms should be reviewed (malfoy and harry; snape and harry, etc.) and something new and exciting should be developed.  I don't think the characters grew as much as everyone thought they did; and I hope that JK puts together a better effort in the future.	2003-07-07
US	51292562	RP6QEW6B04L7Y	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	5	5	N	Y	I am going to save all of you the trouble	You can read the rest of the reviews about how bad this book is, and they are all correct.  This book is horrible, even though I am a huge supporter of Jordan and his writing, I think this book is such a poor reflection of his writing that he should be embarrassed to put his name on this cover.<br />But enough of that.  If you don't want to know what happens in the book: please don't read any further.  I am going to do what everyone else who wrote a review should have done and saved me my time and money in reading this book.  I am going to summarize what happens in the 700 pages of this book, so that you the reader can go directly to book 11 when it comes out (hoping that there is action in that one).<br />Here goes:<br />Mat doesn't do anything.  The dice roll in his head a few times, he swears a few times, and he gets to know Tuon (daughter of the nine moons) a bit better.<br />Egwene doesn't do much.  She gets impatient with being called the Amyrlin, tries to unite the white tower, and gets kidnapped in the last 20 pages of the book.<br />Rand doesn't do much.  He hears lews therin talk a bunch, his side hurts still, and he the book ends with him trying to form an aliance with the seanchean.<br />Perrin smells how people are feeling, gets pissy that he can't get to his wife, and in the end decides to strike a truce with the seanchean to defeat the shaido.<br />Faile doesn't do anything important.<br />Elayne doesn't do anything important.<br />And that is all there is to that.<br />Sorry to ruin it if you read, but I did warn you.  So stay tuned, hopefully the next book will be incredible and make up for the last 2 poor excuses of books from this once incredible author.	2003-02-05
US	51292562	R1G27LSPJRFNKI	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Hints of Greatness	Okay, I have read a few of the reviews about this book, and I am going to try and put them all together to paint a more complete picture of this book.<br />I read this book last night, and although impressed wouldn't be the word I would use, there was certainly something to his writing that drew me in.  I have read a lot of good fantasy and a lot of bad fantasy, and this is far from the worst I have read; and I really feel with a little work and maturity on the part of the author, this could be part of the better fantasy out there.<br />I will qualify my opinion and say that I have read Goodkind, Jordan, Hobb, Feist, Haydon, Modessit, and many other notable fantasy authors.  The main appeal to these books wasthe scope and grandeaur of worlds they created.  Hobbs Buckeep comes alive during the reading, Haydons characters are so well developed they could be living next door to you, the vastness of Jordans world (politics, war, intrigue, history) are unmatchable, and on and on for each of these authors.<br />The main thing that I think Newcomb succeeded at was his creation of a unique fantasy &quot;idea&quot;.  Not often do authors these days come out with something new on the age old fantasy spin.  (I personally think the last one was David Farlands Runelord idea with which I am really impressed); and I think that Newcomb should be congratulated for that.  The idea of magic in his book was intersting, and kept me entertained, as well as the created of a dark history (as so many authors before him have used for effect: Jordan, Goodkind, Hobb, Feist, etc.)<br />Having said that, and complimenting Newcomb on these few promising story threads, i think he does need to do some work to make this book similar in caliber to the authors I have mentioned before.  The plot falls short, sure, it is is entertaining and fast moving, but needs more substance and depth to it. (think politics)<br />The characters are abominable.  (Although an interesting thing to note would be the almost complete role reversal from Jordans simpering males and femdom culture)  The women are not developed well at all, and I immediately didn't agree with his description of &quot;male and female, light and dark&quot;; you can't do that; you will lose all of the women as your audience.  The wizards are the same as they are in any book, stodgey, old, and know it alls.  (I would like to see something different at some point).  The main character (Tristan) develops through th book, and I don't have a lot of issue with that.<br />So in summation, I think this book was an enjoyable read.  Certainly not the best book I read, butI really feel there are a lot of things the author can do to make the next books better.  Hopefully by the 10th or 11th book (as most modern fantasy authors are won't to do) his writing will have gotten better.almost complete role reversal from Jordans simpering males and femdom culture)  The women are not developed well at all, and I immediately didn't agree with his description of &quot;male and female, light and dark&quot;; you can't do that; you will lose all of the women as your audience.  The wizards are the same as they are in any book, stodgey, old, and know it alls.  (I would like to see something different at some point).  The main character (Tristan) develops through th book, and I don't have a lot of issue with that.<br />So in summation, I think this book was an enjoyable read.  Certainly not the best book I read, butI really feel there are a lot of things the author can do to make the next books better.  Hopefully by the 10th or 11th book (as most modern fantasy authors are won't to do) his writing will have gotten better.	2002-10-28
US	51292562	RXDFL8YMBUBKR	0312878842	471875409	Requiem for the Sun (The Symphony of Ages)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Simply Stunning	I thought it couldn't be done. I am slightly jaded right now from the writings of the other attempts at fantasy writing in the genre and have been mostly displeased with ongoing fantasy novels (with the one exception being robin hobb's series) until I came across requiem for the sun, the 4th book in the Rhapsody series.<br />That is a slight misnomer though, this isn't really the 4th book, but really the first book in a second trilogy in my mind, and I think that this is the perfect course of action to pursue for fantasy writers of our modern time.  Indeed the most notable fantasy author decided to only use a trilogy (Tolkein), so I wonder why modern fantasy authors today feel they can overstep and do better when clearly their writings suffer after hte 5th book, the 6th book, the 7th book, ad nauseum.<br />Anyway, I don't want to complain about fantasy writing in general, but instead I want to herald the newest offering from one of the best fantasy authors on the market today.  I think that this book was as superbly written as the preceeding three, and deepens and explores the wondrous land that Haydon had begun to create in the Rhapsody trilogy.  The characters gain new depth, and new characters are introduced and are built just as solidly as those that existed for three books before.  I can't find a flaw with the land Haydon has created, I can't find a flaw with the characters she has created, and I think the magical construct is awesome as well.  In all I can't wait for her 5h book, and I hope that it continues to deepen and explore this phenomenal landscape Haydon has created.<br />5 stars well deserved.	2002-10-28
US	51292562	R2RBZLZC81PC9T	0446608262	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Whimsical but grounded	I have read nelson demille for years; and had previously thought I had read everything good by him.  Like most authors, i felt he suffered from some type of disease of only being able to write 3-5 good books before the writing inevitably goes down hill.  It was into this section that I had classified demille, I read generals daughter, rivers of babylon, charm school among others, and really didn't enjoy anything else by him I tried.<br />Then this summer after not reading a demille book for years i picked up plum island, and 5 hours later I put it down with a smile on my face and hoping and wishing that he would continue the story of hte character he began: John Corey.<br />He did, and so that is why I am going to talk about lions game.  John Corey is back, from LI and his convalescense and is ready to start business as usual.  He meets a new woman who surprisingly is a match for his chauvanism and egotism, and of course we are re-introduced to the spooks that John loves so much: Ted Nash and George Foster.<br />Anyway, read the book if you want to know about it. . .the reason for this review is to sing the praises of Demille in writing this book.<br />This book was whimsical and funny, every other line was an off-color joke, or some type of inner comment made by john corey and they all had me laughing either on the inside or outloud.  Genuinely this book could be considered a comedy if it wasn't for the seriousness of the plot lines.  This style of writing is a fine line to walk: there are terrible things that the books main enemy do, and any humor stemming from this could be taken as macabre and distasteful, but Nelson pulls it off admirable and creates one of the best reads I have had the please of experienceing in a while.<br />I say it again as i said after plum island, I can't wait for a new book with John Corey in it; and I can't wait to see where and with who he will end up with in whatever new book comes out.	2002-01-24
US	51292562	R1GQKDW0DCDVRC	0553801481	130881552	Fool's Errand (The Tawny Man, Book 1)	Books	5	41	43	N	Y	Robin has done it again: fitz is not dead	I read the description for this book before it came out, and I couldn't think of any other story involving fitz or nighteyes that could eclipse their last adventures in the Farseer trilogy.<br />I was wrong.<br />This book picks up 15 years in the future when Fitz (or Tom Badgerlock as he is called in this story) is 35 years old and feeling every year of it.  The book starts with Tom complacently tending his farm/cottage in the woods far apart from human civilization and still recovering from the  hardships the farseer line (chade specifically) had placed on him in the last series.<br />A series of visits alters Tom's simple life and he is flung back into the thick of things in a very different buckeep where he is charged in finding the missing Price Dutiful and (again) saving the world from disaster.<br />Sounds pretty commmon from that explanation, but this book is anything but.  Even though this land was thoroughly explored in the previous two trilogies Robin Hobb has managed to add yet more depth and breadth to her land while somewhat bridging the gap between the Farseer and the Liveship traders trilogies.  The fool reappears and again plays a central role, but the most amazing character aspect of this novel is fitz himself.<br />One of the reasons I praised Robin for her last series was the believability and real world harsh situations her characters were forced into, as well as their subsequent growth and maturing throughout the series.  I was very surprised with how well Hobb managed the aging of fitz, although in my mind I will probably always think of him as the brash and unrestrained 20 year old I first came to know, Hobb has handled his transition into the middle years in incredible style.  You can almost see the age in Fitz's character, and while his old heart and stamina sometimes shine through, at no point through the story did I mistake this fitz for the old one.<br />The characters have assumed a more mature stance, and I think that this is probably Hobb's strongest writing ability: the skill to create believable and loveable characters, and have them grow and still have them be great characters in their maturity.<br />This book deserves 5 stars certainly, and I await any more books that Ms. Hobb will write far more than many other authors in the fantasy world.ly Hobb's strongest writing ability: the skill to create believable and loveable characters, and have them grow and still have them be great characters in their maturity. <br />This book deserves 5 stars certainly, and I await any more books that Ms. Hobb will write far more than many other authors in the fantasy world.	2002-01-09
US	51292562	R1EVV7GB1ASJ7J	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	53	67	N	N	Good, but not his best	I have anxiously been awaiting this book to hit the shelves, and I can't tell you how many times I have reread Faith of the Fallen in preparation for Pillars of Creation coming out.  Faith of the fallen is one of those rare books that really stand out amongst it's peers, but in reality has no peers due to the incredible rhetoric and imaginative writing of Terry Goodkind.  But I am not reviewing that book.<br />I fell in love with the Sword of Truth series from the start.  I had been reading Jordans book feverishly until they started to become boring, and dependably dull.  His series started to flag (I feel) by the 6th-7th book and it has been downhill ever since.  Goodkind to me took some of the same ideas as Jordan in writing a series, but I feel as though he learned from Jordan, and didn't make the same tired mistakes.  Goodking constantly kept his characters moving, growing, the plot shifting, and new wonders appeared in every book.  It is for this that I have revered the series up until the last book.<br />This new book by Goodkind is a good book.  I will give him that.  He is a very proficient writing, and has used the land he created almost in a selfish way I feel to explore ideas beyond the regular scope of his novels.  I will explain.<br />The book is about children of Darken Rahl that were saved from summarily being killed at birth as Rahl's are wont to do.  These children by the storys beginning have grown to adulthood, and have been on the run from the ruthless minions of house Rahl their entire life.  Though the lifelines of these children start out simply and independant, their stories quickly link up, and crisscross each other until the end of the novel.<br />Their adventures with the Imperial Army, and within the land of D'Hara is sprinkled with excellent writing, yet my gripe with the story is that the main protagonist: Richard Rahl and his associates are not written about until page 450.<br />Yes you heard correctly: the main characters of this series, Richard, Kahlan, Cara, who have fueled all of the plot thus far were not written about until the book was 4/5ths done.<br />I respect this from Goodkind, as he probably wanted to use alternative characters to explore the world he had created, and see it from a different point of view, but I feel as though he should have written more about Kahlan and Richard, just to allow them to grow that much more in this book.<br />So that is my gripe with this book.  It was a well written book, but I wish that Goodkind had written a little more about the characters I have grown to admire greatly.  Incidentally Richard does learn one more Wizards Rule, and the streak is kept alive as we are now up to 7 rules of &quot;living life as wizards do&quot;.<br />Good book, well written, the characters were interesting, if not who I really wanted to read about.  But in the process I was able to learn a little more of the mystique of the land and some of its inherent magic, and that is always a positive thing.  So I would call reading this book overall a very enjoyable experience, if slightly unexpected.series, Richard, Kahlan, Cara, who have fueled all of the plot thus far were not written about until the book was 4/5ths done.  <br />I respect this from Goodkind, as he probably wanted to use alternative characters to explore the world he had created, and see it from a different point of view, but I feel as though he should have written more about Kahlan and Richard, just to allow them to grow that much more in this book.<br />So that is my gripe with this book.  It was a well written book, but I wish that Goodkind had written a little more about the characters I have grown to admire greatly.  Incidentally Richard does learn one more Wizards Rule, and the streak is kept alive as we are now up to 7 rules of &quot;living life as wizards do&quot;.<br />Good book, well written, the characters were interesting, if not who I really wanted to read about.  But in the process I was able to learn a little more of the mystique of the land and some of its inherent magic, and that is always a positive thing.  So I would call reading this book overall a very enjoyable experience, if slightly unexpected.	2001-11-21
US	51292562	R19HXOQSCNY8G	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Finally: Something Old that really is New	The fantasy background of Knights/Dragons/Kings/Queens/Castles/Swords, etc has been a story for the ages.  So many books have been written with these romantic ideas in mind, so many that this type of writing has become somewhat of a cliche to me.  I have read extensively in the fantasy and sci/fi genre, and it is very rare that you find a fantasy setting that doesn't include at least 3 of the above elements.<br />Because of this repetitiveness it is very tough for an book/series to break out of the mold and stand above the rest.<br />Very tough, but not impossible.  George RR. Martin has proven this in his last book in this magnificent series.<br />Every book that comes out in this series is a promise from Martin, a promise that everything you are thinking will happen in the book will not happen; and there is no way to predict what the final page will say in the book.  The characters in these books grow; characters that you are familiar with for the last 3 books (it was overwhelming in the first book to be introduced to so many characters, but it pays off in the next 2 books) change and mature in inexplicable ways that you never would have dreamed possible from reading the first book.<br />I would like to applaud martin on so many levels here, I don't even know where to start. .to try:<br />The multiple plots he has created do not in any way take away from each other, but add a certain flavor/spice to the book that I have not found in any other books that use this style of split writing.  I can't wait to read the other characters in the book, not once did I flip ahead to that characters next chapter, because by the time the chapter was over about 1 character and I had started another chapter with another character I was engrossed in the new characters trials and tribulations.<br />The characters have grown.  So often it is a big problem that characters in a series of however many books long do not grow.  From the start of this series the characters have started dynamically changing and growing, and it is a pleasure to see where they will finally end up.<br />I could go on and on, but I won't.  Read this book yourself, and you will be rewarded.  It is very possible that the characters you hate will die/ or live and become characters you like, and you won't be dissapointed at all as to where the book ends up.<br />Read this entire series again and again.dynamically changing and growing, and it is a pleasure to see where they will finally end up.<br />I could go on and on, but I won't.   Read this book yourself, and you will be rewarded.  It is very possible that the characters you hate will die/ or live and become characters you like, and you won't be dissapointed at all as to where the book ends up.<br />Read this entire series again and again.	2001-01-08
US	51292562	RWKVNH7KI5V10	0312867867	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	A Jewel of Modern Literature	&quot;Where other authors appear to be building towers, Goodkind looks to  be building a pyramid.&quot; - Piers Anthony.  No one else could have put  better to words what Goodkind is doing with the most recent book in the  unprecedented Sword of Truth series.  I read this book in awe of the  mastery goodkind has over creating characters and settings 5 books ago, and  yet each time a new book comes out the scenery is as refreshing as when I  first took the series up.  The characters grow in each book, and through  their growth lessons are learned by the characters and by the readers.<br />What most impressed me about this book was the rhetoric and soul  searching that the character Richard did to finally find his place in life,  and finally find his meaning of existence.  With such passages as:<br />&quot;Reason is a choice.  Wishes and whims are not facts, nor are they  a means to discovering them.  Reason is our only way to grasping  reality--Its our basic tool of survival.  We are free to evade the effort  of thinking, to reject reason, but we are nto free to avoid the penalty of  the abyss we refuse to see.&quot;<br />This passage foretells the lesson  learned in this book, many times I was thinking to myself the similarities  between this book and 1984 by Orwell.  Goodking does not just tell an  incredible fantasy story, he teaches the reader something in the bargain.<br />This book was phenominal, and the best in the series.  Whichever depth  you choose to read this book to you will enjoy it.  I hope that literary  scholars note this book, and see it for more than just a simple fantasy  yarn; this book should be awarded the highest accolades the literary world  could offer.	2000-09-03
US	51292562	R2KIEZA1HOYIF1	0345412214	664598597	The Last Don	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Puzo knows his writing	Every time I read a book by Mario Puzo, I become more and more impressed with this mans writing style.  His books always have a great combination of  real world brutality, goodness, sex, and all the other mixes of human  experience.<br />His sentences are simplistic and without airs, as are the  ideas of the story, and it is this simplicity that gives Puzo's books an  elegance that many modern writers lack.  Mario is writing about something  that is interesting and tells the reader what they need to know when they  need to know it.  He knows his subject material and creates a world that is  interesting as well as believable.<br />Fools die was excellent, and then I  read GodFather,and I was very impressed with that book also.  I wasn't sure  about this book, but I picked it up, and saw that even though it was about  the same subject material (I thought it would just be a recounting of the  godather), the storyline is fresh, with new characters that become well  developmed by the end of the book.<br />Puzo also creates fantastic  characters in this book, there is a mold to run by, the old sicilian mafia  mold, but the characters in this book are removed by a generation or 2 from  this mentality, and it is very interesting to see how Puzo shows their  lives as caught in the middle of the mafia life of their parents and  grandparents, and the americanized life they lead apart from Quoge LI and  the &quot;family&quot;.<br />This book was great, and a great read.  Any book  written by Puzo is worth reading because of his fantastic writing style,  this book is no exception.	2000-08-16
US	51292562	R1SD6VSKHLDYKL	0446604089	280932772	The Best Laid Plans	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	Not up to par	I read the hardcover of this book and was thinking to myself when Sheldon had started to write 6th grade books.  The writing was a dobule spaced 12  font or something like that, I could have fit the entire book into one half  it's length with proper type setting.<br />I mention this, because I think  it was a ruse by the publisher to try and make this book more imrpessive  than it really was.  This book didn't have very good character development,  and the plot twists were contrived; it seemed as though Sheldon wrote this  book under duress, and didn't really care how it turned out so long as  there was a final product.<br />I have read many of Sheldons books, and have  enjoyed most if not all of them, I am really surprised at this book falling  below the level of excellence that his other books have established.<br />This book is signature Sheldon with the plot twisting and exciting plot  and setting, but is a pale shadow of some of his better work.<br />Read  another one of Sheldons older works before you judge him from just this  book, I feel that his earlier work is far better.	2000-08-16
US	51292562	R23QQ48E92MCVK	0812538943	231685261	The Parafaith War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not so much a novel as a piece of Literature	This book has created a world, a bunch of characters, and some motives for these characters.  But what is most interesting is that LE Modesitt has created a belief system for these people that his characters fight against  and come to know eventually.<br />I was impressed by the writing in this  novel, the story was interesting enough in it's plot twists and use of  futuristic technology, counting only that, this novel was good.<br />But then  add to that the facet of religion, and the role it  plays in bringing about  the downfall of a culture, how one man uses this influence in religion to  speed up this process, and how this book makes us reevalute our own values  and you have a book that approaches literature.<br />The arguments Modesitt  makes arem't always right, nor on the conservative side in terms of  religion, but all his points are thought provoking, and it is for this  reason I suggest reading this book.	2000-07-31
US	51292562	R3C10B9PIB2YXP	078578781X	930626996	Magician: Apprentice (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Riftwar Saga)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Return to this World as often as you can!	Something truly magical has happened this time that Feist has set pen to paper.  The world that came about with its characters, the land, the people, the freshness of it is truly inspiring to anyone that reads this  book.<br />This book has all the elements that make a series magical.  My  favorite part of this book is the character of  Pug.  He is the resident  powerful magic user, and finally comes into his own in this book.  It was  this character that I was most interested in, how Feist treated the usage  of magic was new and exciting, and wasn't caught in any old rut that some  authors get into.<br />The land of this world was romantic, fighting still  takes place with swords and shield, there are amazing feats of bravery as  well as duplicity.<br />Another character that comes into his own in this  book is Tomas, and it is this character that probably the most interesting  in the whole series.  Feist really draws out this characters coming of  power, and the whole process of dreams and altered reality is really  exciting to read.<br />This land is great, the characters are great, and the  writing is great.  What more could you want?	2000-07-31
US	51292562	R3AQX3O4B914BK	0061056294	481848404	Kingmaker's Sword (The Rune Blade Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	A Classic	Even the cover calls to mind one of those fuzzy yet pleasantly warm fantasy stories read/or told as a child.  This book is a short fantasy novel, not really all that remarkable until the cover is opened, and the  characters are embraced.  Once this occurs though, it is almost impossible  to put this book down.  There is romance, tragedy, a lost heir, courage,  and indescribable evil.  All the ingrediants that characterize a good  fantasy book.<br />You will see this book, and the cover might not grab your  attention at first, and maybe the description won't pique your interest,  but believe me, open this book and magic happens.	2000-07-31
US	51292562	R1VT9W035AQGKI	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Up to Snuff?	I got this book on Saturday (thanks to the amazon.com shipping special they had) and I finished it on sunday (thanks to me reading fast).  I finished the book, and I didn't know what to say.  I had read the 3  previous books, and was expecting a lot from this book, perhaps unfairly  so, and this book just didn't live up to what I was expecting.<br />First, I  might have an unfairly biased opinion seeing as how I am probably  &quot;outside&quot; the intended age of the readers of this book, but when  you find great literature such as Jk Rawlings has written, I don't think  there should be any age limit or bounds on who can read it.<br />Having said  that, I thought the first 3 books were magical, whimsical, and touched off  something in each of us that very few authors can do.  I think that this  4th book didn't quite capture that same feeling; it left me feeling as  though the author really pushed this book out; and struggledto meet a page  limit.<br />I wasn't exceptionally impressed, I think that the characters need  a breath of fresh air, and I think the book needs to break out of the mold  it is getting into.  The first 3 books &quot;worked&quot; very well, the  whole land and setting were new, and the concepts were new.  JK Rawlings  granted new characters and new things in each book, but I sort of think  that she needed something drastically new for this book, and she didn't do  it.<br />I got sort of tired reading this book; it needed more, alhtough it  was a lot longer than the last 3 books, I don't think it covered as much as  1 of the previous books.  I have the feeling that Rawlings was pushed to  make this book long, and that the story didn't come from her heart, but  rather from her mind.  She didn't appear to be writing to have fun; but  rather writing to meet a deadline.<br />I know the beginning of this review is  not very favorable for the book; but overall this book was a good book.  I  would definitely suggest buying it and reading it; you will still be amazed  and delighted by the scenery adn setting; the characters are teh same, and  the evil is eviller.<br />I just expected a little more from this author.ill be amazed  and delighted by the scenery adn setting; the characters are teh same, and  the evil is eviller.<br />I just expected a little more from this author.	2000-07-10
US	51292562	R21K8KX1YLT136	0446602825	939177062	The Baker's Boy (Book of Words) (Vol I)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A little Stale, Not much is new	This book was not very fresh; the main ideas have been played out numerous times in numerous other books (an orphan boy with no apparent life; finds that he has super duper magical powers).  The characterization of this book was not great either; truth be told there really wasn't much about this  book that was interesting.<br />I read it, just because I had nothing else to  do.  I started to the book and finished it because I hate to start books  and not finish them, but finishing it was a task.  The story is one of a  baker's boy who finds he has magical powers and must run away.  An evil  sorcerer is scheming for the throne and mixes foul concotions and potions  (as most evil sorcerers do).  The boy runs away, find someone to teach him  something about his power, and eventually is going to come back and  challenge this sorcerer.<br />This book was very ho hum, and not on the top  of this field at all; if you are interested in fantasy you should not read  this book, unless you have exhausted all other outlets and authors before  this one.	2000-06-30
US	51292562	RNXQSF65FOKGA	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Read, Re Read, Re Read and you might understand	I read this book through once, and thought: okay, I just read a book about a 15th centurey samuri warrior, and he enlightened me all about how to fight with a sword.  Great.  Now what can I do with that.<br />But there is  more, there is much much more.  This book contains within it philosophy,  and a sense of the greaterness of ones self in relation to the cosmos.  Musashi didn't write a book just about how to fight with an antiquated  sword, he wrote a book that allows the reader to see further than their  petty lives and embrace a more global way of thinking.<br />Musashi wrote  this book to enlighten the reader as to how he lived; and how he thought a  warrior should live.  And everyone today is a lawyer, whether it be in your  job, in your social life or wherever, you are always fighting and planning  on how to make things come out best in your favor; and this book helps you  to realize these battles and win them.<br />This review is very ephemeral and  doesn't say much; but it is tough to explain a book of this magnitude in a  small 1000 word essay.  You need to read this book to gain even a slight  understanding of the magnitude of it; then you can reread it and hopefully  gain a little more understanding; until in 50-60 years you might understand  it fully.  Maybe.<br />Read this book although 400 years old it applies more  to today than ever.	2000-06-29
US	51292562	R3NULR3OAZWPC0	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Interesting Subject matter, tough to digest	As it is with most science/physics oriented books, anything past the 100th page begins to become not understandable, the reader simply gets bogged down in the sheer language of the novel; and terminology.<br />This book was  good in that it was intriguing and interesting.  I read it for the first  time in high school after a calss I had taken delved into some of these  topics.  The coverage of these topics were done very well in this book, but  the reader has to remember that this book is only the writers opinion and  not factual scientific writing.<br />This book was interesting and engaging,  I woudl suggest reading it if you have a moderate background in nuclear and  atomic physics, and if you would like to open your mind to less  conventional ideas about the universe and it's inner workings.	2000-06-29
US	51292562	R2L18854JVNEW7	0441519180	80172198	The Man Who Never Missed	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Took Long Enough	It took me a few months to find this book at an out of print bookstore.  I had read it previously 5 years ago, but had somehow misplaced my copy.<br />When i had originally read it, I loved it.  I had been in high  school at the time, and I had not really read all that many books yet; the  books far reaching scope and simple yet powerful language and imagery  inspired me then.<br />I remembered how much I loved that book, and so  recently I have started to aquire the whole series; again.  I thought it  would be good to have, I used to like these books, I doubted I woudl find  them interesting the second time around, after all I have read so many  books since I first read these, they are bound to be boring.<br />I could not  have been more wrong. Steve Perry has created a series here that certainly  can withstand the tests of time, and I think it is a travesty that all of  these books are out of print.  The books are not complicated to read, and  they are short, but they are so engaging and far reaching that anyone who  reads them will fall in love with them.<br />If you can find these books  anywhere get them, they will be well worth the struggle.	2000-06-28
US	51292562	R3FX8E1RFX5EDJ	0941413357	674204299	Signal Processing and Linear Systems	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Easiest Text Book to Understand: Ever	I dread buying text books for school, usually I will buy them, pay 100 dollars, reference them 1 time for an obscure project for that semester, and be done with them.<br />This book was completely the opposite of it.  My  teacher understood the significance and clarity of this book and relied on  it heavily, the more I read it, the more I understood the topic.  Lathi is  writing about a very dry and tough to understand topic when he chose to  write about continuous and discrete time systems.  But this book is  anything but boring and dry.<br />He spruces up the language so that it is  interesting, and readable; and his explanations about even the most  complicated topics are very understandable thanks to many illustrations and  examples done in the book.<br />If you have a choice in your class to buy this  book or borrow it, buy it and you will not regret it, this book will be  helpful in learning, and prove to be a valuable resource after you finish  with the class.	2000-06-28
US	51292562	R1AJR75UOR0YSE	0312890540	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Can anything stop Terry?	I applaud Terry Goodkind on many levels; I just don't know where to start with it.<br />Each of his books can be stand alone. I have derived so much pleasure from reading this book, and the books preceding this one.<br />I  applaud him first at the creation of the world in these books.  The main  thing in fantasy that i Look for is a world that impresses me but also is  believeable (for a fantasy world), and intriguing.  The characters are a  mirror of this world, and Goodkind has succeeding on both accounts of  creating characters the readers can understand and cheer for, and also with  the creation of a land that I would love to be a War Wizard in.<br />This  book is good because it doesn't continue the last book and continue with  obscure references that were made 2 books ago and assume the reader has  intimate knowledge of the land they are reading about.  This book has  departed and travelled some distance and time from the last book, the same  characters remain, but the venue has changed as have their personalities to  reflect the lives they have been living in this book.<br />Each installment  in this series doesn't stay in one place, but changes the location,  antherefore the supporting cast of characters, so that you never know what  is going to happen in the next book (Goodkind has not fallen into the  predictable trap Jordan has).<br />This book was as good as the last ones,  and the reader is left at the end of the book not knowing what is going to  happen to the characters in the next book. This anticipation is what I am  looking for in a book of this calibur, I don't want all my questions  answered at once, I dont' want to be able to predict where the characters  are going to go, and where they are going to be in the next  installment.<br />I can't wait to read the next book; I can only dream and  wonder what fantastic changes I am sure Goodkind has wrought on the  beautiful world he has created.	2000-06-26
US	51292562	R22SGXSODLJG8	0553577255	726290076	Traitor's Moon (Nightrunner, Vol. 3)	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Glad that I finished it	I read all 3 books in this series, and the only reason I really finished this book was out of duty to the entire series.  The first 2 books were good, and I had thought with the culmination of the second book the series  was over.  Although there were a few loose ends to tie up, the war appeared  to be staved off at the beginning, with the Skalans triumphant.  The ending  was not happy, but I only applauded the author even more for her guts in  finishing the story the way that she did.<br />I was wrong in one element,  that there was another story.  I picked this book up being curious what was  left to talk about, and although I don't regret my decision, I think I  would have saved myself time, and given the author more credit if she had  stopped at 2 books.<br />This book was just a continuation of the 2nd book,  but with a contrived storyline that didn't really mesh with the rest of the  books, and it appeared to me the author used this book, mainly to explore  the sexuality (homosexuality) of her 2 main characters Alex and  Seregil.<br />Another kudos to this author for creating controversial main  characters, 2 men of a different race (akin to elves) who love each other,  and who share this love physically and mentally.  I have never read a  fantasy book befoer where the main characters were gay, and although it  made me a little uncomfortable since that is not my interest, I give the  author a lot of credit for having the guts to do it.<br />I would say that  this book was worth reading if you read the entire series, just so that you  can get an even more definitive ending for Seregil and Alec, but I don't  feel as though this book matched up in story, or in thought to the 2  previous books.  Hopefully the author will drop this world and these books,  and use her considerable writing skill in a new venue.<br />Read it if you  must, but it won't be as good as you are expecting.	2000-06-26
US	51292562	R11AMD4KBOX76H	0886777631	634336906	City of Golden Shadow (Otherland, Volume 1)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Final Review you will ever have to read bout this book	When I was first thinking about purchasing this book, I read all customer reviews in an attempt to get an idea of if I was going to like this book, and if it was worth reading. I saw 5's, adn then I saw 2's, and everything  in between.  It seemed that people either loved this book, or hated  it.<br />This book was not engaging, it dragged on and really didn't arrive at  much after 800 + pages.  The story line was unique, but the author got  bogged down in detail and his own intricate plot twists and seemed to lose  the thread of the story altogether at times.<br />This book was not horrible  though, it had some merrit to it.  The idea the book was predicated on was  interesting, and i seriously considered reading the rest of the books, just  to see where the author was going with this idea.  But when I saw the next  2 books were in the same 800+_ page format, I decided my time was best  spent elsewhere.<br />I am sure you are wondering, and asking me to answer  your question that probably prompted you to read this review in the first  place: should you read this book.<br />No.  I don't think this book is worth  your time, unless you read really fast and could finish it in a day or 2.  (This was hte only reason I stuck with it, if I had had to spend more than  a week or 2 on this book, I wouldn't have read it) There are so many good  books out there that are begging to be read, that reading this would be a  waste of your time.  The book was just not worth it.	2000-06-23
US	51292562	R3SWI2VK8HKQ92	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unimaginable in it's scope	Wally Lamb has really outdone himself with this book.  Calling this book a novel would not do it justice, the scope of this book is much more on the level of a saga, the saga of a mans life, his uncertainties, his love, and  his ambitions.<br />The characters in this book are not perfect, indeed some  of them are far from this ideal.  Not all characters are sane, not all  characters have the best intentions, but what makes this book so memorable  is the fact that the characters are believeable.  You can imagine yourself  walking down the street and meeting this character, I could imagine myself  conversing with any one of the characters in this book.<br />There were many  areas explored also in this book that would be of interest to a large  population of readers, specifically the baby boomer era.  The step father  played a dominating roll for the twins in their early lives, and the  numerous flashbacks only go to show how his impact has lasted through their  entire adult life.  The scarring and the memories from these experiences  really shape the characters, and make them more believable and real.<br />This  book was incredible, saying this book was about one topic would be  completely unfair to it.  The topics ranged through so many issues and deal  with so much that it is only fair to say: read this book and see for  yourself.	2000-06-23
US	51292562	R3KR2BM3PLQDA6	0061099341	757036024	As the Crow Flies	Books	5	5	6	N	N	No Review Would Do this book Justice	But I will try.<br />The sweeping and panoramic viewpoints that accompany this novel, just start the incredible journey that the reader is taken through in the lives of these characters.<br />Archer creates beleiveable and  loveable characters, incredible plot twists, and a fluid shifting of  viewpoints; incorporating all this together makes for one of the best  novels ever.<br />The readers interest grows as the character do, the  characters are introduced as young children, so you can imagine how much  love and admiration the reader will have for the character when the book  ends and they are in their 70's.<br />The book encompasses such a range of  human emotions, all leading to making this book so believable and lovable.  Love, hate, jealousy, everything is in this novel.<br />By even calling this  book a novel might be wrong from the start.  It is more of a saga of the  life of Charlie Trumper and his loved ones, foes, nemesis and family.<br />His drive and ambition make him the favorite main character, but the  reader gets even more in touch with him through the viewpoints of other  characters.<br />My hat is off to Jeffrey Archer, to put a book together of  this magnitude was quite an undertaking I am sure.  The precision and  attention to detail that he uses in writing these novels is breathtaking,  please read this book to understand.<br />Do not be daunted by the length,  after reading a few pages, you won't even realize how long it is until you  finish it, and you wished it was even longer.	2000-06-16
US	51292562	R1XRG8TE8IYX00	0586210687	614547985	Master of Whitestorm	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Deserves More than 5 Stars	So often is the case in mondern fantasy that authors utilize the serial format and I think that the writing suffers because of that.  I am more impressed if an author can write a single book of however many pages, and  have it be good, and stand alone, than I would be if that same author wrote  an 8 book series that accomplished as much in that span of time as the  single book did.<br />This is the case with this book.  It isn't often that I  read stand alone books, I read so fast that they always leave me looking  for more anyway, and so it is usually easier for me to read a series where  I know there are going to be more books. This book was a wonderful  exception to my rule though.<br />This was such a great book because of the  characters.  They were fantasy characters and performed tasks that the  average man could not. And it wasn't becaues of magic necessarily in this  book, but the will finding a way.<br />It turns out that the main character  is a legacy of some mighty wizard; but he spurns this heritage is forges  out into the world on his own bereft of any use of magic.  Any  accomplishment he does is his own, and this is what makes this a great  book.  His character is driven and does impossible tasks, but it is not  impossible to fall in love and deeply admire this character because of his  deeds and his will.<br />The setting was unique, but I think the shining  moment for this author was in creating and developing her character of  Korendir.<br />Read this book.  I know it is an older book, and I know that it  didn't recieve rave reviews when it came out like a robert jordan, or a  terry goodkind, but this author is a very good one and proven, just give  this book a chance.  You will like it.	2000-06-16
US	51292562	R2CFFQTCCDKMTV	0061007137	133209355	A Matter of Honor	Books	5	79	84	N	Y	One of the Greatest	I have read extensively out of Jeffrey Archers repetoire and have found all of the books not only palatiable, but also intriguing reads.<br />I read this book 5 years ago, and make it a point to read it at least once a year  if not more.  This book was one of the best fiction books ever written as  far as I am concerned.<br />It is so easy for the fiction author to fall into  a trap and write the same old news, sometimes in a tired, but different  way. These books are not interesting.  Any author who can offer a breath of  fresh air to the genre recieves my hats off, and this is due to jeffrey  Archer.<br />This book isn't typical at all, the plot twists are entirely  tough to predict,and even though the ending should have been a forgone  conclustion (the hero winning) it was done in such a way that I was still  very much interested.<br />The basis of the story is a guy named Adam who is  led through many adventures because of an archaic note he got from his  fathers will.  This letter to his father was written in german, and in  trying to get it translated the adventure begins.<br />His journey and  escapes follow across most of Europe, and the action never stops.  Somewhat  like a James Bond flick, but 100 times better, and in book form is what I  would compare this exciting read to.<br />Read this book, and when you are  done, read all the rest of Archers books, you will enjoy each and every one  of them.	2000-06-16
US	51292562	R3Q6WLH1GASX8X	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Truth is Better than Fluff	I would say the main strength of Robin Hobbs writing is her real world brutality.<br />Her main characters are not exempt from a beating, from death, from embarrassment, or from any ill that would befall us mortals  outside of the fantasy realm.  The heroes ego keeps itself in check, and I  think this is the major accomplishment of these last 3 novels Hobb has  written.<br />It is very easy to fall into the trap as a fantasy writer of  allowing your main characters/heros to be invincible and omnipotent.  What  makes for a better story though are the flaws in these characters, and  actually haveing them realize these flaws and work to make them  better.<br />This book was the last in the installment for the Farseer  trilogy, and as sad as I am to see it end, I think Hobb did a great job of  ending it.  I am sure it took a lot of strength to say &quot;This series  sold really well, why not just extend it by 1 book, 2 books, 3 books, 4  books., . .. &quot; until she got caught in the same vicious loop as Jordan  and maybe Goodkind.<br />The book is gratifying, it ends the series and ties  up all the loose knots.  Not all of them are happy knots to be tied up, but  they are tied up nonetheless and the reader has to be content with this.  Instead of just admiring the characters on a surface level when done with  the book though, I got a much deeper feeling than that about them.<br />The  characters were not perfect, but they grew in their faults and their  accomplishments much as i would in my life.  I came to admire and respect  deeply these characters, and it is because of this fact that I will buy any  book Robin Hobb puts out after this one, no questions asked.<br />You should  do the same.	2000-06-16
US	51292562	R1E6XSA4S03U3F	0380726262	83917748	Moon Music (Paperback)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Makes you wonder	I read the book, put it down, and then picked it back up again, re reading select scenes.  The power of this book is such that you wonder: is this a fiction book, or is it going more into the science fiction catagory.<br />I  think that the few surreal scenes in the book only heightened the suspense  that Kellerman permeated the air with throughout.  The book was not  predictable ( a major plus in a ficiton novel) and was enjoyable to the  last, even though the good guy did win.<br />This book was engaging, and the  character relationships were unique and interesting, much more so because  of their basis in the Los Angeles area.  It appears to me that people  follow a somwhat different lifestyle out there, and the book provided many  details of this lifestyle.<br />This was an egaging and enjoyable book.  A  good book to read on a long plane ride because you won't want to put it  down once you start it.	2000-06-16
US	51292562	R1YIVK3DCPHCCK	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	5	12	18	N	N	More stars if i could	There is so very much praise to be heaped upon this book, i scarcely know  where to begin.<br />I first read this book while in middle school and was  captured.  This book was not a story of some guy fighting for the human  race, rather it was a saga (like shogun), a saga that spanned time, and  characters and emotions.  The characters developed throughout the book, as  did the story line.  Somehow through 1000+ pages Hubbard was able to keep  this book interesting and not predictable in the least.  I loved this book  the first time I read it, and would keep going back to it to read my  favorite scenes.<br />I read this book again in high school and fell in love  with it again. The timelessness of this saga can touch anyone, and it  angers me a little that this book is typecasted soley as a science fiction  book.  I think that readers of all ages and genres can appreciate this book  as a shining example of humanity and it's best qualities.  You are inspired  to be the Johnny of your town, to take control and do good for the sake of  doing good.  you are inspired to ride horses, fight monsters, and be an  american hero whos picture is on intergalactic coinage.<br />Read this book.  it is long.  it is daunting to those who do not like long books.  The  reward will be well worth it within the first 50 pages of this book, and  you will treasure it after you have read it for a long time.<br />ps.  I  hope the movie captures something of this book, I really like john  travolta, and if anyone can do it, he can.	2000-05-10
US	51292562	R13BCPBNXOXK73	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	4	1	3	N	N	On her way	What to say about this book.  It was good.  Not great, but good. The land the author creates is believable in terms of most fantasy worlds, but that is also a fallback for it; it sometimes takes too much from the common  perception of fantasy and as a consequence is a little stale.  But  regardless of that fact, the author was still able to capture my interest  enough so that I finished the book in a night. Read this book; it won't be  an international bestseller, but it is clever enough to keep a readers  interest until the end.	2000-05-10
US	51292562	R28Q22ZL2IP2PT	0553263285	200441275	A Darkness at Sethanon (The Riftwar Saga, Vol. 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This and Magician Master are masterpieces	These 2 books make the Riftwar series what it is.  These books combine  just the right amount of wizardry, the right amount of guessing as to what  the old world was like (all fantasy books have a shrouded glory period in  their past, and it is always the author who dangles tantalizing pieces of  it in front of the reader to egg them on).<br />These 2 books shine through  the whole series.  The land was believeable, the characters age (gasp),  royaly is approachable, good men turn bad, bad men turn good.  In all a  believable book.<br />The most impressive part of these books, and this series  is the land though.  Feist has created such a unique and intersting land  that I am sure hte stories virtually wrote themselves.  The tapestry that  Feist created is so beautiful and bursting with history, past and present  that it would be virutally impossible to write a bad book in it. (unless of  course he follows hte path of jordan and writes 4 book to many)<br />Read  this book, read the first 2 books and consider yourself happy with this  series.  It is worth the time, and the enjoyment to read this book.	2000-05-10
US	51292562	R3FNTM0XHH0NVJ	0451160193	132801318	Fools Die	Books	5	7	12	N	Y	One of the best books i ever read	I am usually a sci fi/fantasy buff, but this book made me reevaluate where I stood on fiction.  The scope of this book is truly impressive, it is not merely a story, it is a chronicle of a mans life.  And even this misnomer  is misleading, it is not so much a chronicle as a saga.  This book will and  should live on as an example of one of the greatest works of literature in  the 20th century.  I am duly impressed with all that Mario Puzo has  written, but this book tops all the charts for him and for any other  author.  This book was great, if you don't read it, you are going to  regret it when you son is talking about it in an english class in 20 years.	2000-04-24
US	51292562	R1FRBLIZ17GP9H	0786915641	494288220	Dragons of a Fallen Sun (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume I)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Not as good as the Chronicles	I remember first reading the chronicles in high school, and finishing the trilogy in a span of 3 days.  The magic of those 3 days is still with me, and I look for every chance I can find to recreate that magic.  I turned  again the the Wiess, Hickmand duo, hoping they had done it again with this,  their latest endevour into the Dragonlance world.  I was a little  dissapointed though, this book was not as solid as the chronicles, and not  as solid as some of their other work.  I think they did not do a good job  of developing characters, rather they seemed to use the mold from other  books and ended up sounding tired and old.  The book ended with me feeling  despair, this world they have created is truly without hope as I see it.  At least in their other books there was an ounce of hope for salvation, not  so here.<br />The book was okay, if you have nothing else to do, or if you  feel a burning desire to read all the books in the dragonlance world,  please don't let me stop you.  But I would advise against reading this  book, and would instead entreat you to read some of their other good works,  among those being Soulforge, a book in the new (I think) raistlin  chronicles.	2000-04-23
US	51292562	R1DN94AG52QOAS	0312866534	894162627	The Runelords: The Sum Of All Men (The Runelords, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	New Idea	I always have to give a lot of credit to authors who are able to see a genre of writing and make it their own by introducing a new and fresh aspect to look at.  So often I am left feeling bored and tired by the same old wizard and dragon stories, that I am always welcome to books such as  these that breathe a breath of fresh air into the field of fantasy.  The  idea of supplementary magic in this book to me is the central reason why  the book is good.  The author has created a new \\"magic\\" as it were, and how he tells about it, and introduces it in this book was well  done.  The writing is not super heavy, so this book can be enjoyed by all,  but I enjoyed the ideas that went behind the making of this book, and it is  those ideas that I applaud.  If you are reading goodkind and jordan right  now, and see all the consistencies between those 2 authors, and perhaps  also to Tolkein, look to this author and this book to help you out of your  doldrum.	2000-03-04
US	51292562	R3AL044E5CAO2B	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Almost as good as enders game	I was an avid reader of Enders Game, I must have read the book 5 times since I first read it in high school.  I thought that was probably the best book to ever be written, there was no pomp, there was no fanfare, just  solid writing that can be interpreted by any age that reads the book.  Enders Shadow was an interesting book to read, I don't think it was as well  written, but I am pleased that this world and these characters were  explored more in depth an in a different perspective in this book.  Knowing  how it is going to end doesn't ruin it at all, it just makes the authors  job tougher, and as a consequence, the book better.  Read this book if you  read Enders Game, you owe it to yourself	2000-03-04
US	51292562	R3VWAFE52Z0P13	0553103334	714413063	Mad Ship (The Liveship Traders, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Long Enough!	One of the things I lament about good books is that they seem to end to soon, not so with this book.  Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed this book, and one of the reasons for this is because it ended so well.  Althogh  I am anxiously awaiting the next book in the series, I feel that reading  this book was a good and satisfying reading experience.  I highly suggest  this book to anyone who wants to read a new author with a fresh perspective  on the old fantasy regime.  Good work robin, keep the books coming as  quickly as you can.	2000-02-02
US	51292562	RRYZ6J9IV05SU	0312890540	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Better than before	Unlike others in the fantasy field, I feel that every time terry goodkind sets pen to paper, a good book is going to come out.  He has not made this series a slave to the same characters every book, nor even the same  scenery; every book in the series continues to have it's own scenery, and  specific characters, which makes this book less like a tired out series,  and more like high quality stand alone books.  The unifying characters are  of course included in each book, and their development is very believeable  and appealing to the reader.  I really enjoyed this book, and can't wait  till the next book in the series comes out.	2000-02-02
US	51292562	R258318MFKOBIL	0312867522	953091978	Rhapsody: Child of Blood	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Pretty good	I have read many of the modern masters of fantasy including Hobb, Jordan, Goodkind and others.  I feel this author has come pretty close with this book to the quality that some of the greats have in their books.  This book  wasn't a 5 star book, but I felt it was engaging enough to merrit 4 stars.  I am always looking for a new slant on the age old (and sometimes tired)  fantasy genre, and this book provided it.  This is not just another  Atlantis story, but a continuation of this idea, almost like stephen  lawheads series about king arthur.  I was a little dissapointed with the  character development, but otherwise i thought it was a good read, and  worth it to buy in hardcover.	2000-02-02
US	51292562	R4YQR9N1WCMTA	0312867425	709703711	Brotherhood of the Wolf (The Runelords)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Good Book	A good read, but the author seems not to have developed some of the ideas that become major points in this second novel of the series.  Hopefully he will correct these inconsistencies for the next book in the series, and hopefully the author will not drag out this series as other authors have,  (Goodkind, Jordan).  Good read though, I highly reccomend it.	1999-06-28
