US	51302660	R24ALYFODK2CL4	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Best book I've read in the last year	I picked up this book because I read Mitchell's book Ghostwritten about a year ago.  While I enjoyed Ghostwritten and thought it was an interesting book, I think that Cloud Atlas is a far better novel.   <br /> <br />I rarely find a book that keeps me completely and totally engrossed until I've read the last page.  However, Cloud Atlas is so much more than just a single long book.  It's really like one of those nested dolls, where you take off the outer layer to find another doll right beneath it and keep going until you get to one last surprise in the center.  With six different stories tied together in subtle ways, reading this book is like taking a nested doll apart and then reassembling it.   <br /> <br />The stories move through time (past, present, and future) and locations (South Pacific, Europe, US) and also through different perspectives and writing styles.  Imagine being in the middle of a fascinating story right where something dramatic is about to happen... and then having the story interrupted to move onto another topic.  The entire time you're reading the following stories, you're waiting, waiting, waiting, until you get back and find out what happened but at the same time, the new story is just as fascinating as the previous one.  When I finally reached the middle story (set in a post-apocalyptic future), I was so frustrated and upset because suddenly, the writing style switched from clear, precise language in the previous story to slang and modified language.  I happen to really dislike this type of writing, but for some reason, the way it was presented by Mitchell, it was readable, understandable, and (to my surprise) enjoyable.   <br /> <br />In some ways, this book is somewhat gimmicky.  This whole concept of nested stories and the way that Mitchell plays it out could come off as being some kind of a gimmick to draw a reader in, without any practical reason to present the stories this way.  However, I think that Mitchell has a point in the way hepresents this book and that there are reasons behind his style.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in a well thought out story who is willing to experiment and be challenged by a book.	2005-04-06
US	51302660	R1HREMFRZ1C3B4	038097827X	256102865	The Wolves in the Walls	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great book, great story	Take an interesting offbeat story, add in an intriguing graphic style for the illustrations and what do you get?  A wonderfully put together and thoroughly enjoyable book.  I'll admit that I have NO IDEA how this book would play with children.  I bought it because I like much of Neil Gaiman's other work and enjoyed The Day I Swapped My Dad for 2 Goldfish.  I actually liked this book a lot more than the goldfish book.  I thought the story was better, I liked the illustrations more, and I had a lot of fun reading the book.  Two thumbs up!  Also, I do think that this book would be okay for readers below the age limit listed here.  It is a little on the scary side, but it does have a pretty much upbeat ending that resolves most of the scary bits.	2003-08-17
US	51302660	R2KQN3MH1Z6B1R	0765342111	780300410	Limit of Vision	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Different from Nagata's earlier work, but a great read	I've read all of Linda Nagata's previous books.  As a group, all of her previous books were enjoyable and reasonably well written.  The characters were well described and the plots were interesting.  The only complaint that I had was that the books really weren't that accessible because of the level of technical detail.  While I enjoyed her \\"hard science\\" approach in her earlier books, I think it also kept her from getting a wider audience.  From that perspective, I think that _Limit of Vision_ is an excellent attempt to broaden her audience while still remaining true to her original \\"hard science\\" roots.  In addition, I think that with each book, Nagata's ability to create a thought provoking and challenging story has increased.  <br />_Limit of Vision_ is set in the near future.  A trio of scientists has been working on a project for a corporation basically exploring the feasibility of using organisms named LOVs (since they exist at the limit of human vision) for any practical purposes.  Unfortunately, the scientists are hampered because all biotechnology is strictly regulated b/c of a horrible sounding accident caused by biotech gone awry.  So, their LOV experiment actually lives on a space station in orbit around Earth.  Before the LOVs were taken to the space station, the scientists stole some of them and implanted them on their foreheads.  <br />This book is about the unexpected and unpredictable consequences of that action.  Some of the questions that were raised in the book include:  what defines consciousness?  At what point does an organism stop being \\"animal\\" and start being something else?  If an organism has consciousness, then do we have the right to just destroy it?  And if we don't destroy it, does it pose a threat to the very things that define us as humans?<br />It's not a perfect book.  It does leave some loose ends.  It might even be missing some details throughout the book.  But, that said, I absolutely had a GREAT time reading this book.  It read almost like a thriller rather than some dry biotech story.  In my mind, it encompassed many of the things that make sci-fi fun to read - a fast moving plot, lots of technology well used, a real concern about what might happen in the future.  With a little stretching, I could absolutely see the vision Nagata created in _Limit of Vision_ as being a realistic possibility of what our future might look like.  I was also really impressed by the strides that Nagata has made in creating realistic characters.<br />I also want to stress that Nagata is not some \\"new SF author\\" attempting to re-write Bear's _Blood Music_.  First of all, she's been around for quite a while.  She has several other books out there that are really well written, although in a much different style than _Limit of Vision_.  Second, Nagata has written about nanotechnology in basically ALL of her earlier books.  She's not attempting to re-write _Blood Music_, she's continuing in exploring a subject that she's been talking about for quite a while.  In my opinion, even if you just look at the quality of the WRITING, _Limit of Vision_ is a far superior novel.	2002-11-14
US	51302660	R32DNUD08QV4ZT	0151004498	30962648	The Graveyard Game	Books	4	11	11	N	N	You weren't expecting closure... or were you?	I have to admit that my review is going to be a bit skewed because I was definitely expecting things that this book did not deliver.  I don't necessarily think it's Kage Baker's fault.  She really didn't lead me on or anything.  But really, I was expecting to find out exactly where Mendoza was, to find out what happens after 2355 (when the big silence falls), and to understand what the heck was going on.  I don't really feel like I got any of those things from this book, but I did get a very entertaining and fun story.<br />The most important thing for you to know before you buy this book is that you should do some pre-reading.  Although the story does stand on it's own, it will make a heck of a lot more sense if you've read Baker's earlier Company books.  BUT in addition to reading the books (Garden of Iden, Sky Coyote, and Mendoza in Hollywood), you'll understand a lot more of what is going on if you read Baker's short stories featuring several characters important to the story.  The only place that I know of to get these stories is online at fictionwise.com.  It's a set of 6 stories that explain where the heck these characters came from and what they are doing.<br />If there is any shortfall in this book, it is in the details missing from the story but present in the short stories.  Since I had read the short stories already, this didn't bother me.  But if you haven't read the short stories, I personally think you will spend a lot of time scratching your head and going \\"what the heck?\\", \\"huh?\\", and \\"who is THAT?!?\\".<br />When last we saw everyone's favorite Company operative Mendoza, she was having a major breakdown and killing a bunch of mortals.  Then she disappeared.  Graveyard Game (which has oddly few graveyards) is about her friends Joseph and Lewis searching for her.  Joseph was the operative who originally recruited Mendoza and it seems like he feels a lot of personal guilt for what has happened to her.  Lewis has a bit of a crush on Mendoza and he's alsofascinated or possibly obsessed by her love affair with \\"the tall Englishman\\" (Edward).<br />This book is radically different than the early Company novels because all of those novels start in the past.  This novel starts around the current time and moves forward from there.  One of Baker's major strengths in earlier novels is that she is great at writing historical fiction.  She puts in all sorts of neat details and goes to the extra effort to make her history believable.  In earlier novels, I could always understand the perspective of the cyborgs with their technological sophistication reacting to backwards mortals.  However, in the Graveyard Game, Baker does a relatively good job of showing people in the future.  I had a harder time understanding the world she was creating, though.<br />Overall, as with all of the earlier company novels, a fun read and definitely worthwhile.	2002-06-19
US	51302660	R2E10MQMHF4V1	0312875681	1724295	Forests of the Heart (Newford)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Standard de Lint� but still not growing old	After reading several of Charles de Lint's works, I've formed a pretty standard picture of how his books work.  He introduces the characters, some of who are distinctly odd or have some kind of magical connection.  Then there is a conflict between characters and some magical element culminating in a final showdown or serious conflict that tests the characters and always results in the good guys winning.<br />In this case, de Lint is following his standard formula, using both familiar and new characters.  I want to make it clear that this is not intended as a criticism of this book.  I really did enjoy it, but it really isn't that different than many of de Lint's other books.  <br />De Lint returns to familiar territory by setting this story in the odd and magical city of Newford.  Strange things are always happening in Newford and there is always a magical spirit or two around.  I felt a little bit lost in the \\"introduce the characters\\" section because there were several new characters in this book.  Bettina is from the US Southwest and brings a Native American and Hispanic element to the story.  She doesn't know why she has been drawn to Newford (although heck if you were interested in the supernatural, Newford would be the place to be).  Other characters include Miki and Donal (siblings originally from Ireland who are part of Newford's Celtic scene), Hunter (who runs a record shop), and Ellie (who is a sculptor).  All of these characters are brought together by their dislike for The Hard Men or The Gentry, spirits described at points as being from Ireland who are homeless in the new world.  There is, as per normal in de Lint, a conflict between the humans and between the supernatural.  The conflict takes many individuals working together to resolve.<br />Overall, although this work is pretty much formula de Lint, I did enjoy this book and had a hard time putting it down.  I don't feel that it makes a good introduction to de Lint or to Newford.  I would strongly recommend that newcomers to his work and to Newford read one of his two anthologies set in Newford first (Dreams Underfoot or The Ivory and the Horn) - they're much better introductions than this book, as this book assumes familiarity or at least a comfort level with the supernatural goings on in Newford.<br />Another good read from a master of urban fantasy.	2002-01-08
US	51302660	R3KZAWA7I9J69M	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Exciting second part to the Hyperion story	If for some reason you are considering reading this book without first reading Hyperion, STOP and go buy Hyperion to read it first.  This book will make no sense to you if you have not already read Hyperion.  The Fall of Hyperion is essentially the second half of the story of Hyperion.  Neither book would stand on its own, but when you put both books together they make an interesting and well-written story.<br />The first book in this story, Hyperion, provides all the background of why these individuals are on a pilgrimage to see they mysterious and dangerous Shrike - a creature known for its ability to travel through time and tendency to kill people for rather mysterious reasons.  The second book, Fall of Hyperion, is written in a completely different style than Hyperion.  While Hyperion tells the story of each of the pilgrims on the trip and their motivations, Fall of Hyperion is about the action that is going on in the confrontation between two groups of humans and between AIs.  The conflicts that are going on are at points difficult to follow because the timing is not always concurrent.  In addition, the activity on Hyperion is being told from the viewpoint of an AI construct who is somehow eavesdropping on the pilgrims on Hyperion.  This leads to the story being a little bit on the jerky side, kind of truncated in strange places.  <br />Because Hyperion and Fall of Hyperion are in essence one book, I was irritated by the difference between the style of the first book and the style of this book.  I can understand the necessity of the changing the style because the style of Hyperion would not have worked for this book.  However, since the books are so intrinsically tied together, the style differences seemed disjointed.<br />I clearly have mixed feelings on whether I enjoyed this book or not.  I am irritated by the trend in sci fi publishing towards these &quot;two part&quot; books.  If neither book has the ability to stand on its own, why should they be published seperately?  It doesn't make sense to me.  Because the books were published seperately, Simmons apparently felt the need to drop reminders back to things that happened in Hyperion, which was a compete waste of text.  To make it clear, I have no problems to books that have sequels.  That's fine.  This book is in no way a sequel to Hyperion -- it is a part of Hyperion.<br />Assessing this book on its own, I would only give it three stars.  However, as part of the Hyperion-Fall of Hyperion story, I would give the books together four stars.	2001-12-19
US	51302660	R2ER5N9X4A7KQE	0786867973	194529374	How to Be a Domestic Goddess: Baking and the Art of Comfort Cooking	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Fun baking advice with a British flair	Most of the time when I browse the cookbook aisle at my local bookstore, I'm faced with a never-ending array of cookbooks with a couple of good recipes but mostly stuff that I'll never make.  It is hard to find a cookbook that will end up being a treasured repository of personal and family favorites - they just don't come along that often.<br />When I picked this book up, I thought the name was just a good gimmick, a way to get people to take a look.  I was doubtful that there would be much substance behind the nice photography and catchy name.  How wrong I was!  As I went through this book, the exciting and fun looking recipes amazed me.  The recipes weren't all new or flashy, but they were uniformly inspiring.  The first recipe in the book is actually a simple lemony loaf cake recipe...  but it was the first thing I made because it sounded so yummy!  On top of the recipes themselves, the commentary from the author helped me to become enthusiastic about the recipes and about baking in general.<br />The overall style of the cookbook is really nice.  Great pictures for almost all of the recipes.  Clear instructions in the recipes themselves.  The introduction to each recipe was very well written.  Many recipes had variations and other ideas listed.<br />This cookbook is definitely not for everyone.  It does have a British slant both in the commentary and in some of the recipes.  For example, there are several recipes for different kinds of mincemeat pies that I'm doubtful I'll be making anytime soon.  There are also more subtle ways the British slant comes out, especially in the choice of ingredients.  For me, this just added to the charm of the cookbook.  The only negative comment I have about the cookbook is that in some cases, I would have liked an explanation of WHY a certain technique was being used.  For example, in a recipe for a chocolate loaf cake, you are instructed to alternate adding tablespoons of hot water with tablespoons of flour.  I would really liketo know why and that type of explanation would have fit in well with the overall style of the book, but it was missing.<br />Overall, a great and fun cookbook that gave me some inspiration for the holiday season and actually got me back into my kitchen when I was feeling a bit \\"burnt out\\" on baking.	2001-12-19
US	51302660	R2R7AC438BQ9G1	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Interesting style, interesting topic	Before I go into my review of this book, I want to make it clear that if you are going to buy this book, you must also purchase Fall of Hyperion.  Hyperion is in reality only the first part of a two part book which should have been published in one volume.  This publishing strategy is one of my personal pet peeves - you are being forced to purchase two books in order to get one story.  Hyperion does not stand on its own as a book and you must have the companion volume to actually reach a conclusion in the story.<br />Although I am irritated by how this book was published, I have to admit that it is a really interesting book that I am glad that I read.  Hyperion is basically a science fiction version of the Canterbury Tales.  The question the book asks is:  Why are these \\"pilgrims\\" travelling to Hyperion?  The answers to the question are interesting, mysterious, and exciting and leave you wanting more.  On the planet of Hyperion, there is a deadly (and really creepy) creature called the Shrike.  The Shrike lives in an area of Hyperion with artifacts called the Time Tombs which are somehow travelling backwards in time.  At the beginning of the book, you know very little about what the Shrike is and what is going on in the universe.  By the end of the book, you know a little bit more about the Shrike and a lot more about the state of the universe.<br />Each part of the book has an intro section about what is going on with the pilgrims in their current time - where they are on their journey to see the Shrike.  After the intro to each part, one of the pilgrims tell their story.  The characters range from a diplomat with a secret past to a poet who has lived a long time.  The motivations and background of each character become clear as they tell their stories.  <br />All of this knowledge about character motivation and what is going on in the universe is actually only useful when you're reading Fall of Hyperion.  Although the pilgrims have finished telling their stories by the end of this book, you really don't have a frame of reference for what actions they are going to take and what is going to happen to them as a result.<br />Also, I have to agree with an earlier reviewer who got sick of all of the references to Keat's and his poetry.  The Fall of Hyperion is even worse on this score.<br />Standing on it's own, I have no doubt that I would give this book three stars.  However, once the story is completed in Fall of Hyperion, I would give both books together four stars.	2001-12-19
US	51302660	R3ELLUDIBBUR5Q	0553104934	615267418	Zeitgeist (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Feeling slow-witted about this one -- or is it the book?	First, if this is the first time you have heard of Sterling and haven't read his other work, STOP right there. Read his short stories in Globalhead or A Good Old Fashioned Future. Then, decide if you are interested in reading more. If this were the first Sterling work you ever picked up, I doubt you would ever read anything more by him. You need a gentler introduction to Sterling.<br />Second, before you purchase this book, take a look at Sterling's Leggy Starlitz short stories. The three that I know of are: &quot;Hollywood Kremlin&quot; (in Globalhead), &quot;Are you for 86?&quot; (in Globalhead), and &quot;The Littlest Jackal&quot; (in A Good Old Fashioned Future). If you like those stories and want to know more, for sure read Zeitgeist - you will probably like it. Also, if you don't read the short stories, you will have a harder time figuring out all of the details in Zeitgeist - not 100% necessary but very helpful.<br />Leggy Starlitz is definitely one of those characters that you really love and &quot;get&quot; or one of those characters that you hate, you think is shallow, and you just don't understand. Personally, I think that I understand at least a little of who/what Starlitz is and (especially in the short stories), I really loved him. He's not a flat character and there is a lot about him that is not explained either in the short stories or in Zeitgeist.<br />That said, did I like Zeitgeist? &quot;Yeah, no, maybe&quot; sums it up pretty well. In case you don't know, the word zeitgeist is German for &quot;the spirit of the times&quot;. That's the basic concept driving this book. The question is, what is time all about? How does time work? Does the millennium have any meaning at all or is it just another year? <br />I'm not going to pretend that I actually figured out answers to those questions by reading Zeitgeist, but it did make me think about them a lot. Honestly, I felt that I was a bit out of my depth reading this book. I could definitely tell that there were some super high level concepts that Sterling was trying to get across but I had a hard time understanding them. The main idea was something along the line of time being a narrative and about how events either &quot;fit&quot; the narrative or just don't make sense in it. If events don't belong in the narrative, then bad things tend to happen.<br />There is a great deal of depth to this novel beyond the high level plot about Starlitz managing a faux Spice Girls band. This is also the case with all of the Starlitz short stories - there's always more than meets the eye. Although that high level plot isn't half bad either, it's the behind the scenes action that I really like. And the tiny Princess Di subplot made me fall over laughing when I figured it all out.<br />As for the argument that this is a book about Y2K that was published a year to late... If you actually get to the end of the book and still think this, you have definitely missed the point.<br />Also, as for the argument that Sterling is mired in jargon and doesn't make sense... come on! It's Sterling for crying out loud. This should not be your first Bruce Sterling experience and if you've ever read anything by him, you know what to expect in terms of jargon and being &quot;kool&quot;.<br />Basically, no guarantees that you will actually like this book if you buy it. I would not say that I liked it that much. It's not my favorite work of Sterling's - Heavy Weather and his short stories seem much better to me. In fact, on occasion, Sterling's style falls a little short - in the final section when we're getting closer to Y2K, the story seems to get a bit muddled... but that might be part of the point as well.<br />Not my favorite Sterling work, but DEFINITELY a book that I will want to re-read in six months or a year. To me, actually wanting to re-read a book is the best possible test of how worthwhile the book was to read.	2001-04-09
US	51302660	R1S4CN4VZZPAQ	0812551613	891882719	Earth Made of Glass (Giraut)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	So much potential, such disappointing execution	The one thing that you can unequivocally say about John Barnes is that he has exciting ideas.  Great, wonderful concepts that if properly executed would form some classic sci fi novels.  The disappointing part is that he tends to fall flat on his face when it's time for execution.  Especially disappointing are his endings and how he tends to rush through them.<br />The concepts of A Million Open Doors were very promising.  Humanity spreading out and colonizing worlds.  Loss of communication between the colony worlds.  New technology making instanteous travel possible.  Earth Made of Glass is based on these same concepts, with a subplot of a marriage somehow gone wrong tied in.  It's with that whole subplot that this story degenerates from an exciting tale of cultural prejudice and how technology is stirring up the pot into a story of how two people can no longer relate to each other.  I'm not saying that this doesn't belong in a sci fi story. I'm saying that Barnes' inability to execute that subplot well drags the entire rest of the book down the drain.<br />I thought the first 100 pages of this book were GREAT!  Very exciting, getting to learn about new cultures and how the instantaneous travel technology was affecting their relations.  Then, Barnes goes into his standard &quot;I will philosophize them relentlessly and they will understand the world better&quot; mode.  For example, three pages of the prophet Ix explaining while it is better to love rather than to hate is a bit much.<br />I wish that Barnes would collaborate with someone who would teach him to take himself a little less seriously.  Also, it would be great if he could get an editor who would correct his grammer and style.  My pet peeve, in addition to the grammer gaffs noted in other posts, is that Barnes uses parentheses in the speeches given by characters... how the heck does that make it past an editor?  We're not talking about a character whispering an aside to someone during his conversation -- we're talking about an integral part of a speech given by a character!<br />All in all, the most disappointing part of this novel is the rushed ending.  Barnes rolls out all kinds of different technology, revelations about the personal lives of characters, etc, etc in the last few pages to wrap up some dilemmas.<br />I love that Barnes doesn't take the easy way out for his characters -- not everything is beautiful in their lives at the end of the book.  I just wish that he could do a better job in writing about his ideas.-- we're talking about an integral part of a speech given by a character!  <br />All in all, the most disappointing part of this novel is the rushed ending.  Barnes rolls out all kinds of different technology, revelations about the personal lives of characters, etc, etc in the last few pages to wrap up some dilemmas.  <br />I love that Barnes doesn't take the easy way out for his characters -- not everything is beautiful in their lives at the end of the book.  I just wish that he could do a better job in writing about his ideas.	2001-03-21
US	51302660	ROT8W8Q1RNTU7	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Needed?  No.  Enjoyable?  Yes.	There are definitely two divergent approaches to this book.  Depending on which approach you take, Ender's Shadow is either an enjoyable add on to a popular book or a waste of the paper it is printed on.<br />In approach number one, you would have to separate Ender's Shadow from the classic sci fi novel Ender's Game.  An example would be if you had read Ender's Game a while ago, long enough that it was a little blurry in your mind, and you had enjoyed it when you read it.  Maybe you would even have read some of the sequels to Ender's Game.  In this case, you'd probably be looking forward to hearing more about Ender and the Battle School, etc.  But you wouldn't remember every detail of Ender's Game.  Under these conditions, you would find Ender's Shadow to be a real blast - you'd get additional details about the world that Ender lived in, although from a completely different perspective.  Ender's family was middle class, Bean's family doesn't exist and he's a street urchin.  Yet, despite their different paths, both Ender and Bean end up in the same place:  Battle School.  Then, you'd get additional information on the battle school, although from a younger, less popular kid.  Finally, you'd get details of the Bugger battle from Bean's perspective.  From this approach, it would definitely be worthwhile to read this book and I think you would definitely enjoy it.<br />On the other hand, let's say you've just finished reading Ender's Game or you have a better memory for all of the details of Ender's Game.  I think it's likely that you would find this book boring and a waste of time.  Ender's Shadow doesn't really add anything substantive to the story in Ender's Game.  In addition, the story and writing in Ender's Game is SO far above the level of Ender's Shadow that it makes Ender's Shadow seem a bit disappointing despite all the things that make it an enjoyable book.<br />Also, if you have never read Ender's Game, don't bother reading this book.  Start with Ender's Gameand in a while, when you have forgotten some of the details and want to revisit the original world of Ender, go ahead and read Ender's Shadow.<br />From my point of view, it was about two years since that last time I read Ender's Game.  I did read the sequels Xenocide and Speaker for the Dead.  I held off on buying Ender's Shadow because I thought it would be disappointing.  However, when I got the book, I read it in less than a day.  It was very engrossing.  The only problem was that seeing all of this from Bean's point of view made me want to re-read Ender's Game.  When I re-read Ender's Game, I was very disappointed in Ender's Shadow because I could not really find a good reason for Ender's Shadow to exist.  Still, despite the fact that I really don't think this was a book that needed to be written, it was kind of fun to read.	2001-01-05
US	51302660	R1490TCJ48L4HJ	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	2	6	12	N	N	THIS is something new? Not.	In my opinion, this book is neither science fiction nor is it fantasy.  It seemed much closer to a horror novel with some sci fi elements and also elements of alternate history.  In fact, because of the number of genres Darwinia manages to suck in, it's a hopelessly muddled tale.  <br />I enjoy both fantasy and science fiction.  I enjoy \\"softer\\" sci fi and hard sci fi.  I even enjoy alternate histories.  BUT, when they are all thrown together in one novel, it gets confusing and irritating.  In addition, this book actually gave me nightmares because of the elements of horror novels that are incorporated.<br />I read a description of this author as a new star of hard science fiction based on the less than ¼ of this book that is actually hard science fiction.  What a shame that he is receiving accolades for this muddled drama when other more talented authors (Michael Swanwick jumps to mind) are being ignored.<br />If I step back and make an overall assessment of this book, it suddenly seems to be very familiar.  In fact, in many ways, this book has the same plot as Stephen King's The Stand.  Good vs. evil, lots of people wiped off the face of the earth, secret evil entities controlling infiltrators into the good side, a final conflict between good and evil, etc etc etc.  If you're going to copy someone else's plot, you could be a lot less transparent about it.<br />Did I enjoy this book?  Well, it was okay.  There were certainly parts that were interesting.  For a brief period of time, I was actually interested in what was going on with the main character.  However, I would not recommend this book except possibly for those who enjoy horror novels.	2001-01-05
US	51302660	R30FNVLBI9TKS5	0553580485	642513420	Miracle and Other Christmas Stories	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Buy one for yourself and everyone you know!	Connie Willis is, without a doubt, one of the finest writers of sci fi short stories out there right now.  Almost every short story by her is really a delight to read, and this collection doesn't fail to meet that standard.  What kind of stories can you expect here?  A take off on the movie Miracle on 34th Street, a view of Revelation coming as a carnival, and many more.  The only story in this collection that was not a perfect 10 from my point of view was Cat's Paw.  I just could not get fully into the story and it was a little long for this collection.  Willis speaks in the introduction of her love of the Christmas season and this really shines through in all of these stories.  My favorite story in the collection is the final story about Revelation.  It was one of the most insightful touching stories I have read this year.<br />In addition, if you normally read sci fi and would like to expose friends and family to sci fi, this is an excellent and gentle introductory collection and makes a convenient Christmas gift.  No really bizarre aliens, no \\"hard\\" sci fi edge, just enjoyable reading.  Great for sci fi aficionados and those new to sci fi as well!	2001-01-05
US	51302660	RVB6AZQOTSX4Y	0801984947	928273852	Hold It!: How to Sew Bags, Totes, Duffels, Pouches, and More	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great book for beginner to expert!	What a spectacular book!  If this book is listed as \\"out of print\\" here on amazon, look around elsewhere - I found it at a different bookstore.  There are approximately 20 projects (give or take a few) for bags from duffle bags to a quilter's tool bag to a play mat/bag for children.  Skills levels range from beginner to advanced and the skill levels are all clearly marked for every project.  All the materials you will need for the project are clearly presented right at the beginning of the project with enough detail for even a beginner to get help finding at a fabric store including suggested fabric types.  The directions are also really well written with a great deal of detail and illustrations right where they would be useful.  At the end of every project several alternatives are listed to dress up the project, change the size, or just have more fun with the project.  Surprisingly, the designs of the bags themselves are actually really modern and neat.  I would be proud to have any of these bags myself or give them as gifts.  I would say that about 75% of the projects in this book are items that I will eventually make because they are so neat (and even good as gifts).<br />Right now, I'm finishing up my first project from the book:  the play mat/bag for children.  It's very easy to make and the instructions made even putting on bias tape (something I had not done before) seem simple and straightforward.  It's going to be a gift for my nephew for Christmas.  In addition, one of the alternatives she suggests is to use a different fabric style and sew this same mat/bag for myself as a picnic blanket (also to be used to transport bulky items).  Very neat!	2000-10-25
US	51302660	R3V07ZYEWANAEL	0870744372	985858324	Tyranny on Trial: The Trial of the Major German War Criminals at the End of the World War II at Nuremberg Germany 1945-1946 (Revised Edition)	Books	5	44	46	N	Y	Great overview of the Nuremburg Trial	This is hands down the most depressing book I have ever read in my life.  I'm not saying that as a criticism.  It is completely appropriate to feel depressed after reading this book on this subject.<br />What did I gain from this book?  First hand accounts from the Trials of the war crimes and crimes against humanity that occurred on the part of Germany during World War II.  I've read other books on World War II and accounts from survivors of concentration camps.  I've also visited the US Holocaust Memorial in Washington DC and WWII exhibits at other museums.  This book had just as much emotional impact because it used extensive quotes from the Trials themselves from the people who committed the crimes and their victims.  In addition, I gained a deeper understanding of some of the other aspects of Germany's behavior leading up to and at the beginning of WWII.  For example, while I knew that Germany had taken over Austria, Poland, Czechoslovakia and other countries, I did not have a true understanding of the duplicitous actions and downright lies on the part of the German leaders that led these countries to feel safe while at the same time Germany was preparing for aggressive action.  Actually reading the first hand testimony given by the war criminals had a great deal of impact.  <br />There are a number of rather graphic photographs both of concentration camps and of the war criminals after execution, but this is expected in a book like this.  The book also makes extensive use of transcripts from the Trials and of other reports gathered by the prosecuting countries in preparation for the Trials which cause the pace of the book to be rather slow at times.  It is also clearly written with a bias towards the United States, but this makes sense because of the type of book it is.  I also found myself thinking of this book as a summary of all of the trial information rather than as a historical book standing on its own.<br />Overall, I would recommend this book mainly tothose interested in learning in detail about what the defendants in the Nuremburg Trials were convicted of and why.  It is not fun or light reading but serious reading presented in a style that requires you to pay a great deal of attention.	2000-10-25
US	51302660	R1KHRI7CTOPWDM	0821225901	835002586	Fabrications: Over 1,000 Ways to Decorate Your Home with Fabric	Books	2	34	36	N	N	Really nice photos and inspirational, but not easy to follow	This book is really a beautiful book.  The pictures of fabric being used in various rooms in  houses are all very nicely done and the use of fabric is really stunning.  Unfortunately, while pictures are nice when it comes to projects with fabric, instructions go a lot further than pictures of the finished product.  There are approximately 10-15 projects that actually have instructions in this book.  Everything else is just pictures of really nice applications of fabric.  <br />How are the projects with instructions?  Of the projects that actually have instructions, the majority of them look really neat.  Unfortunately, I think many of them would be difficult to complete because the instructions are fairly weak.  Little to no assistance is provided on how to customize the project.  <br />Who is the audience of this book?  This book does not seem to be a good fit for beginning sewers or even those with a moderate level of experience.  I think expert sewers might be able to use this book more readily because they would be able to transform the pictures into action.  To me, this book is actually more of a coffee table book than a real project book and not really practical. Good inspiration value, low ability to apply your inspiration value.<br />Also, the part that I disliked the most about this book was the section devoted to curtains.  Yes, this is a major area that people want to work on for home decoration BUT there are so many books out there dedicated to just curtains (including a really wonderful one by the same author) that the section in this book on curtains seemed really pointless.<br />If you are a really experienced sewer and need inspiration OR if you are having someone else decorate your house for you and want ideas for an expert to implement, this would be a really good book for you.  If you are a beginning sewer, this book will probably overwhelm you by giving you lots of really great ideas that will be too hard for you to implement or figure out how toimplement.	2000-10-24
US	51302660	R190AOTZAAWLAI	0609601253	952845897	Simple Curtains (Home Living Workbooks)	Books	5	61	61	N	Y	Great ideas which are reasonably easy to make!	This is the best book on curtains that I have seen - and I've looked around quite a bit.  I was looking for several things to help me make curtains for my new home.  Although I have some sewing experience I would not call myself an expert sewer.  Many of the books currently available are really geared towards people with my level of experience or less, including this book.  I wanted good pictures of the end product, so that I could really see what I was going to be making.  Again, this is something most books on curtains have.  However, the two things I wanted but which I only found in this book were:  cool modern ideas (no ruffles or huge jabots, please!) and great instructions.<br />The majority of the curtains in this book were really neat ideas that would fit in really well in homes today.  If you have very traditional tastes or have a very formal decorating style, you probably wouldn't find much in this book.  I wanted something less formal and some unusual/different ideas and definitely found that in this book.<br />The best aspect of this book was that the instructions were written really well and were completely designed for customization (different window sizes, different material use).  Material use, how to's, and general sewing instructions were all included.  There is also a great section at the end of the book (referred to often in the instructions) going over the common techniques used in the book and how to do them (with illustrations).	2000-10-24
US	51302660	R1OHXKM5F8NUX5	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Bridget Jones American Style &amp; In Short Story format	I admit that not only did I read Bridget Jones, I enjoyed it.  The same goes for this collection of short stories.  It definitely falls under the category of &quot;guilty pleasures&quot;, sort of like watching soap operas or Oprah when staying home sick.<br />The biggest difficulty I encountered when reading this collection was my misperception that it was a NOVEL.  It is not a novel - it is a collection of short stories.  So, when I got to the &quot;chapter&quot; written from someone else's perspective it really threw me for a loop.  That's when I figured it all out.  By the way, I got the idea that it was a novel from one of the reviews on the first few pages of the book!  I think it was bad of the publisher to put this review in the list when it called this collection a novel.<br />Now, what did I like about this collection?  For the most part, like Bridget Jones, this was pretty much &quot;brain candy&quot;.  Fast and fun read, not too challenging, but still interesting.  There was only one story that stopped me in my tracks and made me think because it was about breast cancer.  Very interesting perspective on that particular story.  For the most part though, this was just a fun read.  I can't give it 5 stars because it really wasn't that good.  For something to just pass the time (for example, if you're on a plane ride), it would be a great read though.  I do recommend reading this just for the fun of it.	2000-09-28
US	51302660	R3HM8YEEGMDSQ0	0380730456	905850591	Stations of the Tide	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	Challenging plot, challenging style	Michael Swanwick is one of my favorite short story sci fi writers.  He has an excellent sense of purpose and pulls off so much excitement in so few pages that it's hard to believe.  <br />A few weeks ago, I picked up both Vacuum Flowers and Stations of the Tide based on his short fiction.  Vacuum Flowers was a great read, with clearly set out goals, a great plot, and a fast pace.  Stations of the Tide, while a good book, is much more challenging than Vacuum Flowers. <br />To clarify items in earlier reviews:  Stations of the Tide might (and that's not 100% certain) be set in the same universe as Vacuum Flowers.  However, it is a radically different story and the connections between the universe of Vacuum Flowers and this book are tenuous at best.  Yes, there are some items in common, but don't get this book thinking you are going to get another story like Vacuum Flowers.  The style of the story, the pace, and the theme are radically different than Vacuum Flowers.<br />Stations of the Tide is written in a very formal style.  The narrative actually seemed rather stiff.  The technology in the book is pretty much limited to an impressive briefcase that has many different functions and something sort of like virtual reality (used for communication).  The overall plot is more like a sociological study than sci fi.  In addition, there is a pretty heavy plot line relating to magic which seemed flat to me.  It just never grabbed my attention and didn't keep me very interested.  <br />Did I enjoy reading this book?  That one is kind of a toss up.  I think by the time I was about 1/4 through it, I was bored with it.  But it did make me think about what makes someone human (hmmm, that's a similarity to Vacuum Flowers) and about what people are capable of.  However, unlike Vacuum Flowers which made me think but also let me have a really good time with it, this book seemed to be attacking me with it's message without giving me some fun in return.  I still think Swanwick is a GREAT writer and I am glad that I read this book.  I also think that this book might be a good read for someone who does not normally read sci fi, because it is much more focused on the personal level than on technology.	2000-09-22
US	51302660	REMZXLACAKPE5	0441858767	364774598	Vacuum Flowers	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Ashamed that I hadn't read this one earlier	I only purchased this book because of Swanwick's 1998 short story &quot;Radiant Doors&quot; which was such an amazing story that I knew I had to see if he had written any longer sci fi.  I was pretty amazed when I did a search on him and saw how many novels he has written.  I have a lot of friends who read sci fi and NONE of them ever mentioned Swanwick.<br />I am very happy to have stumbled onto this book.  What a great read!  It has something that you don't always see in sci fi:  exploration of thought provoking issues PLUS a fun side that makes the book really enjoyable to read.  One of the things this book does best is to put you in it's world and proceed with telling it's story. It doesn't try to explain everything in it's world upfront and doesn't use any cheesy narrative techniques to explain everything.  Rather, you learn about how this world is set up through the story itself.  Everything fits into place and as I was reading it, I was constantly saying &quot;Ahhh, well that explains that!&quot;.<br />Since this book was written in 1987, many of the topics discussed in it (ie hive mentality, integration of technology into humanity) have been discussed to death in other novels.  However, this book stands out in two ways:  it was ahead of the rest AND it's better than the rest.  This book has elements of Neuromancer, Ender's Game, and even Star Trek (the Borg).  But it uses all of those items in such original ways that it stands on it's own.  Great sci fi novel, highly recommended.	2000-09-20
US	51302660	R3AK7E4R3VNC4M	0312264178	428740951	The Year's Best Science Fiction, Seventeenth Annual Collection	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Some good, some bad, overall okay	The basic problem with any anthology is that it's fairly doubtful that  every story selected will be a good read.  That said, Gardner Dozois does a  reasonably good job of sorting out the wheat from the chaff and including  mostly good stories.  However, after reading this year's collection, I'd  have to say that either last year was a bad year for short fiction or  Dozois is losing his touch.  This is still an &quot;okay&quot; collection  of short SF, but it's not as good as collections from previous years.  In  fact, rather than being really sci fi, some (particularily the first few)  of the stories seemed more like horror.  &quot;The Wedding Story&quot;  which was the lead off story set the tone for the entire volume --  depressing and creepy.  While depressing and creepy stories definitely have  their place in this collection, there were too many of them.  I like sci fi  that makes me think, not sci fi that creeps me out.<br />That said, if you're  thinking about buying this book, it is still reasonably good sci fi.   However, rather than relying on a year end compendium to get your short  fiction, how about supporting the magazines that give you the short  fiction?  Instead of spending your money on this book, think about getting  a subscription to Asimov's or Analog or one of the other sci fi magazines?   Those are the source of most of the stories in this book and hey, if you're  going to get mixed good and bad stories anyway, why not go directly to the  source.  It would be money better spent.	2000-09-18
US	51302660	RYCH819AKV6FL	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	2	9	12	N	Y	Mixed experience	As I was reading this book, I felt that this theme had been covered before  and was doubtful that Bear could add that much new.  However, as I  continued reading, I realized that Bear's take on a fairly common theme  (disease &amp; elimination of humans) was different and I grew to respect  his topic.  However, I don't think the overall story &amp; the plot gave  enough support to his theme.<br />Darwin's Radio was very interesting at the  beginning, less interesting in the middle, and somewhat boring by the time  the lackluster ending rolled around.  I started getting a little bored when  the action shifted from being about science in general and how science is  done to being about one relationship.  In addition, the entire last quarter  of the book felt like a set up for a sequel, which I definitely don't  respect.  There wasn't a sense of closure from finishing this  book.<br />Overall, some good ideas, some well-constructed writing, some hard  science balanced with some boring characters, some uninteresting plot  lines, and some lackluster relationships.	2000-08-14
US	51302660	R1OCK8OLN9WI8Z	0380790882	901198107	The Blue Place	Books	1	16	33	N	Y	Not sci fi and not what I was expecting...	Clearly, I missed something in reading this book that othersfound.  I came at this book from the wrong angle and even though I tried to go with  the flow and enjoy it for what it is, I really disliked the entire book.  I  bought this book solely because I had read Slow River and enjoyed it a  great deal.  What I didn't notice when I bought The Blue Place is that  unlike Slow River, there is not a single bit of anything sci fi in this  book.  I think it's great that Nicola Griffith is expanding her range.  I  have no issues with authors writing outside of their normal genre.  My  problem is that it was not clearly displayed in any way here ....... that this is a general fiction or lesbian fiction book as opposed to sci  fi.  Yes, if you carefully read the reviews and comments, you'll understand  that.  However, this is not clear without careful examination.<br />As a  result, I spent the first 50 pages waiting for something &quot;sci  fi&quot;-ish to happen and the rest of the book regretting my purchase.   Before anyone rants at me... yes, I did try to have an open mind.  Yes, I  did try to enjoy the book based on my final understanding of it as a  lesbian fiction book.  Yes, I do enjoy reading books that are not sci fi  and I have read and enjoyed feminist books.  No, I am not a lesbian, but  that doesn't mean that I can't enjoy a well written book about  lesbians.<br />Whatever your politics or orientation might be, I am confused  on how anyone can call this a great or even a good book.  I am doubly  confused by people who call this book a great feminist book.  In my  opinion, it is neither.  The plot is simplistic.  The characters are flat  with little real depth, only cartoonish depth.  The murders and other  general violence that occur in the book are needlessly gruesome and  overdone.  The action is boring.  Potentially interesting plot lines are  dropped all over the place and ignored.  In reality, this book isn't about  the action, it isn't about a plot, it's just about a relationship between  two women.  I agree with an earlier reviewer who characterized this as a  romance novel, because that is what it really is.  Like many romance  novels, the level of writing just isn't very good.  And that is what I'm  basing my review on.	2000-06-27
US	51302660	R1NYZCETSWYBRR	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The first, and still the best	I have a confession to make.  I've read a lot of Terry Pratchett books over the last two years or so.  I've enjoyed them immensely.  However, because The Color of Magic was basically out of print (or just really  really hard to find), I had never read the first two novels in the  Discworld series.  Now, after finally reading The Color of Magic and The  Light Fantastic I'm embarassed I didn't try harder to get my hands on these  books earlier.<br />If you've never read Pratchett before, this is definitely  a great book to start with.  Summarizing what makes Pratchett fun to read  isn't that easy.  Maybe it's his utterly goofy take on what makes people  tick or maybe it's how his characters, despite being goofy inhabitants of a  weird world, seem to remind you vaguely of distant family members.   Whatever it is, Pratchett is one reading addiction that won't leave you  unsatisfied   for the most part.  Come one, buy this book, you won't regret  it!<br />Now, if you're in the same boat as I was and you've read some  Pratchett but much to your embarassment haven't ever read the start of the  Discworld series, what are you waiting for?  Believe it or not, there  _really_ are some things that you've missed out on by not having read this  book.  As per normal, this book will leave you rolling in the aisles or  falling out of your chair.  If you've read some of the books featuring  Death, pay close attention to what he's like in this book...  You'll notice  some differences.  But hey, that's part of what makes Discworld fun!  In  addition, when your friends who have read The Color of Magic make jokes  about Rincewind, you'll now be in a position to understand them.<br />Overall,  I can't think of a single reason that you shouldn't buy this book and the  2nd Discworld novel, The Light Fantastic.  You'll have a great time reading  them.	2000-06-18
US	51302660	R3931UEKF33XLP	1887169091	625446388	Easy Wedding Planner, Organizer & Keepsake	Books	5	240	240	N	N	A real planning tool, finally!	I looked through a lot of other planners while trying to find one that I liked.  For the most part they were too brief.  For example, if you're going to go to more than one store to look at wedding invitations, wouldn't  it be nice to have some place in your planner to write details of each  store down?  Most planners tend to have room for just one store - your  final pick.  That's not the case with this planner.  Each item (stationery,  reception location, caterers) has a handy comparison chart that gives you a  place to write down some basics about each one.  There's also a neat  section on flowers featuring pictures of each flower so you'll understand  what your florist is talking about.  In addition, the divider for each  section features a pocket on each side, a great place to keep all those  receipts and contracts you end up with.  To top it all off, at the end of  the planner, there are three business card holder pages.<br />There are a few  drawbacks to this book.  First, it is really large.  It's about the size of  an oversized three ring binder.  If you want something to just throw in  your purse when you go to interview vendors, this won't work.  Second, it  features a lot of pictures.  Now, this is handy for the flower section, but  20 pictures of different cake styles isn't really something you need in a  planner.<br />Overall, I recommend this planner if you're going to be doing  comparison shopping and if you are detail oriented.  It really is the best  one that I've seen so far.	2000-06-18
US	51302660	R1W2P0IX5IYT9F	0811825523	735409661	Your Wedding Organizer	Books	1	35	35	N	Y	Too flimsy and not very useful	Before you buy this planner on line, go to a local book store and take a look at it.  It's hard to visualize exactly how this is put together without looking at it.  This might work for some people, but what I've  noticed thus far is that it's very flashy looking but lacks substance.  It  comes packaged together, but is actually three distinct and separate parts.   First, there is a &quot;timeline&quot; section, which is a folds up like a  map and looks like it will fall apart as you go.  It lists tasks and when  they are supposed to be done on a months &amp; weeks before wedding date  basis.  I think as you're using this, if you actually fold and unfold it  frequently, it will completely disintegrate.  If you put it up on the wall  somewhere, then it might be okay.  However, the whole idea behind this  planner is it's portability and that takes some of the portability away.   The second section is the &quot;planner&quot;, which contains forms for  dress shops, florists, caterers, etc.  However, there is only one form for  each one of those items.  I'm not sure what the author expects you to do -  photo copy them and use photocopies as you interview vendors?  This kind of  ruins the portability factor of the planner in my opinion.  Yes, it's neat,  compact, and fits in a small purse, but if you want to really use this  planner, you'll be carrying along a binder or two filled with photocopies  of forms.  The final section, which is totally glossed over in the book  descriptions listed here, is the least useful of all, the  &quot;projects&quot; section.  I was looking for a planner here, not a  small book of arts and crafts projects that I could do.  It's got some  so-so looking projects for favors, veils, and cakes, but in this small  book, there's no way that they could provide an adequate do-it-yourself  project section.  It just doesn't cut it and there are many other books of  projects out there that would be superior.  This planner might be good for  some people, but I really didn't find it to be as useful as expected.  I  strongly recommend evaluating this one in person at a regular bookstore  before buying it here.  Don't waste your time on it unless you are sure it  will fit your needs.	2000-06-13
US	51302660	RA1ZS5J1SRO30	1889392065	53799048	Cyberbride: The Complete Online Guide to Planning Your Wedding	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Useful, mostly for internet novices	I would never have bought this book myself, but we received it as an engagement gift.  I'm an experienced internet user, so this is exactly the kind of book that I would bypass because I would assume that I could find  this information on my own.  What I wouldn't think of is how nice it is to  have a complete listing of the big sites and information about what they do  - this saves a lot of effort trying to determine for myself whether a  website is worthwhile or not.  This is especially true of the planning  features of the big wedding sites.  To even see examples of most of that  stuff, you have to give most of the websites a lot of information about  yourself and undoubtedly end up on bunches of mailing lists as a result.   Who needs more spam when someone has already done most of the work for you?   While I am happy to have this book and have found their opinions about  websites to be on the mark, I still don't think I would have spend the  money on this book.  Also, I was annoyed by their constant explanations of  basic internet terminology.  If you're buying this book, do they really  believe that you do not know that e-mail stands for &quot;electronic  mail&quot;?  If you're not an experienced internet user or if you want to  save a lot of time and effort checking out all the website features  yourself, check this book out.  It definitely has it's uses, but it won't  be helpful enough to justify the cost for everyone.	2000-06-13
US	51302660	R5ZF4IMDJRB0R	0375407340	879408147	Miss Wyoming: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast &amp; fun to read	The only other Coupland book I've read is Microserfs, so I picked this one up just for the heck of it.  I'm glad I did, because it was a great read.  Coupland's style -- skipping back and forth between present &amp; past  &amp; between character viewpoints -- can be a little jarring at first.   However, once I got into the book, I found the style to be one of the best  parts.  It kept me interested and made a relatively simple plot exciting.	2000-05-31
US	51302660	R1FI4UX3Z4W5DL	0553572407	671551230	Interface	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Enjoyable pre-elections read	This book really made me take a step back and look at our upcoming Presidential elections in a whole new light.  Sure, it's sci-fi and not real, but it's pretty scary to imagine that our political system could  degenerate even further into something like this.  Personally, I tried to  avoid comparing this to other works of Stephenson's.  I'm impressed that  he's able to extend his range beyond high tech speculation to lower tech  political thrillers like this book and Zodiac.  These books won't appeal to  readers with a narrow focus on sci fi like Snow Crash or Diamond Age.   However, for readers who don't mind less technical sci fi or even those who  just like political thrillers, pick up a copy of this book.  There are some  slow parts in the plot and it is very detail oriented, but overall this is  a book I would recommend to my friends, even those who are not sci fi  aficionados.  Think of this book in the upcoming Presidential election  race!	1999-12-10
