US	51300959	R2LLYVSNFYNQ2R	0060524308	400007646	Bound for Canaan: The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America	Books	5	49	49	N	N	West Virginia (And Kentucky) On My Mind...	I read a lot of history books and am always glad to find a book that deals with a topic I know little or nothing about. It's an added bonus if the book is well-written and a pleasure to read, as this one is. \\"Bound For Canaan\\" is both thought-provoking and entertaining, which is another big plus. Mr. Bordewich presents many harrowing tales of escape, attempted escape, and recapture. Famous people, such as Harriet Tubman, Frederick Douglass, and John Brown, are brought to life. Even better, brave people who have been lost in the mist of history, such as Jermain Loguen, Gerrit Smith, and Levi Coffin, are given their day in the sun. The Underground Railroad was peopled by slaves, free blacks, and women, as well as white male abolitionists. People with strong religious beliefs, notably Quakers, but also Methodists, Presbyterians, and Baptists were in the forefront of the movement to abolish slavery. What I especially liked about this book was that Mr. Bordewich didn't try to simplify things. People and movements are complex, and all the nuances are present here: religious abolitionists who wanted an end to slavery, but who thought blacks were inferior and shouldn't be allowed to vote or \\"mingle\\" with whites; male abolitionists who thought women had no business being active in the movement; slaves who betrayed (for reward money) other slaves who were attempting to escape; American Indians being slaveholders; \\"free\\" blacks not being allowed to vote or to use \\"white\\" accomodations, etc. It was especially interesting (and ironic) to learn of the numerous \\"passengers\\" who chose to go to Canada (still under British rule at the time)so that they could get a fair shake....British law treated them as equal to white people, and they didn't have to worry about being hunted down and being returned to slavery. (In the United States even blacks who were born free, or who had purchased their freedom, could be kidnapped and sold into slavery.) Presidents and other politicians (Martin Van Buren, Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster) who were either sincerely pro-slavery or willing to compromise to appease the southern states at any cost, come off especially badly. This was a time when government was wrong and conscience was right, and it took both physical and moral courage to buck the system. You might be wondering about the title of this review.........West Virginia was formed when Virginians opposed to slavery decided to create a new state where slavery would not be permitted. And Kentucky? When the southern states seceded from the Union, Kentucky (and Maryland) did not join them. When Lincoln \\"freed the slaves\\" he only freed those in the states which had seceded. As the Civil War roared on to its conclusion, slaveholders in Kentucky and Maryland continued to enjoy their rights. This is an excellent book which illuminates a movement which most Americans know little about....and which is both scholarly and entertaining. It is well-worth your time.	2005-04-29
US	51300959	R9R68YAHL2LU9	074323037X	114254420	A Furnace Afloat: The Wreck of the Hornet and the Harrowing 4,300-mile Voyage of Its Survivors	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Hornet's Nest	This is not just another &quot;men in a lifeboat&quot; book. Joe Jackson tells that part of the story well - the thirst, the hunger, battling the fierce sun and raging storms (and a &quot;demonic&quot; waterspout which seems to chase the lifeboats!), etc. - but the author has bigger fish to fry. Since this was a well-publicized story, he has journals and newspaper reports to draw upon and he can actually, with accuracy, get into the dynamics of what occurred on the lifeboats as time went by and the men started to become desperate: the search for scapegoats, the distrust of foreigners, the division between rich and poor, etc. Although, to my mind, Mr. Jackson pushes the &quot;class warfare&quot; aspects a bit beyond credibility (trying to show that the lifeboats were a sort of social laboratory and were indicators of what was to come in society in the not-too-distant future), it is clear that as the men cracked under pressure there was at least some resentment of &quot;gentlemen&quot; and of those who were perceived as &quot;different.&quot; What also makes this book stand apart is Mr. Jackson's clinical attention to detail: what happens (physically and chemically) to the human body when a person goes 6 weeks with insufficient food and water. He also describes, based on memoirs and journals, what happens to the human mind and spirit. Finally, we also learn of Mark Twain's involvement in the tale...he was in Hawaii and he jumped at the chance to cover the story. He was still young and generally unknown at the time, and the stories he wrote and sent back to San Francisco helped to launch his career. The men on the boats are not ciphers. We get to know 5 or 6 of them intimately, which adds to the poignancy of the story. This is an excellent addition to the &quot;shipwreck&quot; genre, and I recommend it highly.	2003-12-01
US	51300959	RGEF41QXB8E0R	0060002417	885369650	The Stranger and the Statesman: James Smithson, John Quincy Adams, and the Making of America's Greatest Museum: The Smithsonian	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	As Many Nooks And Crannies As The Museum....	I found this book to be a bit of a slow-starter. Smithson is pretty well absent for the first 50 pages, as the author goes into quite a bit of detail concerning the mating habits and inheritance rights of the British aristocracy. The information on inheritance is relevant, as it ties into the tale of Smithson's bequest. The amorous adventures, though certainly fun to read about, don't seem essential to the story. But have no fear - eventually Ms. Burleigh settles down to business and we learn about James Smithson, assorted oddball scientists, John Quincy Adams, 19th century Washington D.C., etc. We also learn the unsurprising fact that they had some sleazy politicians back then (Smithson's gift of $500,000, equal today, perhaps, to $50 million, &quot;disappeared&quot; and was only replaced by the Treasury after John Quincy Adams screamed bloody-murder), and we also learn the depressing fact that Congressmen were just as provincial, and as ignorant concerning scientific matters, 160 years ago as they are today. The mind boggles that many politicians didn't want to take the money for fear the establishment of the Smithsonian would increase the power of the Federal government. Some Anglophobes, still smarting from two wars with the British, didn't want to taint American tastebuds with the financial crumbs (admittedly, a healthy portion of crumbs) tossed our way by an Englishman. Just as interesting was the fact that even those who were glad to get the money didn't know what to do with it. After all, Smithson wanted the money to be used to &quot;increase and diffuse Knowledge among men.&quot; How do you go about doing that....exactly? It was not inevitable that the Smithsonian would become highly involved with research and expeditions...some people just wanted it to be a library, and some people just wanted it to be a museum. John Quincy Adams, despite being dour and a bit of a &quot;downer,&quot; personality-wise, comes across in these pages as a hero. When Washingtonwas still full of muddy roads, mosquitoes, and politicians who liked to spit, swear, booze it up, and even bring their hunting dogs to the floor of the House, Adams pushed for high culture and learning. Alexander Graham Bell also comes through with high marks: in 1903, when Smithson's body was in danger of falling into the Mediterranean (the British cemetery in Genoa was gradually falling into the sea due to blasting from a nearby marble quarry), Bell made the trip to Italy, hacked his way through Italian bureaucracy, and brought Smithson's remains to America. The section dealing with Smithson as scientist is also fascinating. Although not a great or original thinker, Smithson amassed quite a collection of minerals and did the laborious work of subjecting all of his accumulated material to painstaking chemical analysis. He was a member of the Royal Society and knew some interesting, if odd, fellow scientists. Ms. Burleigh relishes telling us about the aristocrat-scientist Henry Cavendish, who &quot;was shy and bashful to a degree bordering on disease&quot; (according to a contemporary), who hated women, and who, although fabulously wealthy, always attended Royal Society dinners with just enough money to pay for his dinner - and not a shilling more. We also meet the extremely eccentric geologist William Buckland, who &quot;claimed to have eaten his way through the whole of the animal kingdom, declaring at first that moles were nastiest.&quot; Ms. Burleigh also enjoys telling us that at one time Royal Society members vowed to eat only fish and pudding at their meetings. The reason? They were trying to help out Edmond Halley (of comet fame) - who had no teeth. This book is a well-balanced mixture of the light and the enlightening, and of science, politics and personalities. If you have any interest in either the Royal Society or in the history of the Smithsonian, I am sure you will enjoy a stroll through the pages of this book.	2003-11-25
US	51300959	RBV8ZE648EUGH	0385506600	385652622	Higher: A Historic Race to the Sky and the Making of a City	Books	5	29	32	N	Y	&quot;They seem to be springing up like asparagus tips...&quot;	About a month ago I read &quot;Great Fortune: The Epic of Rockefeller Center&quot; by Daniel Okrent. If you are like me and can't get enough of NYC history, Neal Bascomb's &quot;Higher&quot; makes a wonderful companion piece. The subject is similar (massive construction projects), as is the timeframe (1920's-1930's).  Mr. Bascomb's book goes into detail concerning the construction of 3 skyscrapers - the Chrysler Building, the Manhattan Company Building, and the Empire State Building. Mr. Bascomb's book works on several levels: as a straight narrative detailing the complexities of putting up super-large buildings; as a collection of mini-biographies of people integral to the story -including Walter Chrysler, and the architects William Van Alen and Craig Severance (former partners who had had a falling out); and as a cultural/social history of NYC as the Roaring Twenties end and the Great Depression begins. The author drives home the point that form and function follow personality and willpower. The beauty of the Chrysler Building is that it is not just another skyscraper. It reflects the vision of William Van Alen (and Walter Chrysler, who took an active interest in the project - looking at hundreds, if not thousands, of Van Alen's drawings and giving his input). Similarly, a man by the name of John Jakob Raskob ( with ties to General Motors, interestingly enough), by sheer force of will, managed to get the financiers to pony-up the money to put-up the Empire State Building even though the Depression had hit. Another &quot;big theme&quot; is that ego can sometimes overcome cool and calculated financial considerations. When Van Alen and Severance (Manhattan Company Building) realized they were in a &quot;shooting for the stars-war&quot; to build the tallest building, they did some things that made the number-crunchers quiver - adding on extra stories (which increases the need for elevator banks, services, etc. and decreases the percentage of rentable space) or addingon geegaws like the spire of the Chrysler Building, with its totally non-rentable area. Likewise, Raskob soldiered on with the Empire State Building even though many people told him he wouldn't be able to rent all that space during a financial downturn. (They were right. It opened with a 23% occupancy rate and was called the &quot;Empty State Building.&quot; It didn't turn a profit until 1948.) The public relations war surrounding the 3 buildings provides an entertaining thread that runs throughout the book - when Severance realized that the spire of the Chrysler Building made it tallest, he countered with the argument that you should only count rentable space - which made the Manhattan Company Building higher. (The public didn't buy it. Taller is taller.) When Chrysler's people realized that within a year or so the Empire State Building would become a reality and would be the new number one, they went into &quot;physical denial.&quot; They advertised their building as the biggest and the brightest, and pretended that rapidly growing structure on 34th street didn't exist. Sadly, Walter Chrysler didn't know, from an aesthetic standpoint, what he had. Once the Empire State Building was built, Chrysler lost interest in his own building. In his autobiography he only devoted 2 pages to the topic, and he nowhere mentioned Van Alen by name. He called him &quot;the architect.&quot; Mr. Bascomb doesn't let the architectural critics of the time off the hook. Most critics yawned at the Chrysler Building - they didn't think much of it, and thought the spire was a useless frill. Poor Van Alen never got another major commission and had to hustle around trying to get minor building jobs from friends and relatives. Another fascinating part of this book is when Mr. Bascomb goes into detail concerning the actual construction process - how many workers were needed for the various projects, the types and amounts of materials, etc. The Empire State Building, whose construction was organized like clockwork by the Starrett brothers, was put-up at the incredible rate of 4 1/2 floors per week. 500 trucks a day delivered materials to the building site, and the steel beams being put into place had been manufactured at the Pennsylvania mills a mere 3 days before. (The beams were still warm when they got to 34th street.) Despite the speed of construction, safety was emphasized. 6 men died (their names are given, by the way) during construction of the Empire State Building, which was amazingly few considering the scale of the project. Finally, the book has 8 pages of interesting black-and-white photos of the time, including one of the famous photographer Margaret Bourke-White perched atop the eagle gargoyle on the Chrysler Building, getting ready to snap a shot. If you suffer from vertigo you may want to skip that photo, as well as the one of the photographer Jack Reilly hanging from the 72nd story steelwork of the Manhattan Company Building.....	2003-11-21
US	51300959	R1EMQ26OYXXHNG	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	5	55	59	N	Y	Worth The Wait	For those of you who have read Mr. Massie's &quot;Dreadnought,&quot; which detailed the German/British battleship &quot;arms race&quot; leading up to WWI, and who have been waiting for years for the sequel....here it is. And is it great! Fans of the author know that he is a master of narrative history. His books read like good novels, and he excels at capturing personalities with  telling anecdotes. At the beginning of &quot;Castles Of Steel&quot; he explains how Kaiser William compensated for his withered left arm, and basically useless left hand, by building up his right arm. William also wore large rings on the fingers of his right hand. He would shake hands with a steel-like grip and watch with amusement as his victim winced. To quote the author &quot;...the hand shaker said merrily, 'Ha ha! The mailed fist! What!' &quot; This small episode not only tells us a lot about William's personality, but the expression he uses also reminds us of his Anglophilia (he was, after all, Queen Victoria's grandson). In a similar way, Mr. Massie conjures up the characters of other people who are important to this story. On the British side: Beatty, Jellicoe, Churchill, Jacky Fisher, David Lloyd George, etc. On the German side: Hipper, Scheer, Tirpitz, Hindenburg, Ludendorff, etc. The major pre-publication concern about this book would have been: could Mr. Massie satisfy not just the fan of narrative history but also the fan of military history. After all, unlike the author's previous books, this book was to be primarily about battles rather than personalities. It turns out that we needn't have had any worries on that score, either. In particular, the descriptions of The Battle of the Falkland Islands and of Jutland are brilliant. The author explains the events leading up to the battles, the strategy, the tactics, etc. He takes us, in a clear manner, step-by-step through the battles and the aftermath. You feel as though you are on-deck with the various admirals as they make theirdecisions. Mr. Massie also covers the importance of Naval Intelligence during the war - the British, early on, broke the German code and usually knew ahead of time what was planned.(Despite the fact that, seemingly by magic, the British fleet always seemed to pop up whenever the German fleet ventured out to sea, the Germans refused to believe that their codes had been compromised.) Things might have turned out very differently in the several North Seas battles if it weren't for this. Mr. Massie also covers the British blockade of Germany, the Dardanelles/Gallipoli fiasco, the U-Boat War (and the sinking of the Lusitania), the entry of the United States into the war, etc. Another big plus for this book is that it will probably generate disagreement and discussion amongst academics and serious students of the war. Mr. Massie isn't afraid to tell us about who he admires and who he doesn't much care for. Thus, he clearly thinks Jellicoe superior to Beatty (especially at Jutland)and he thinks Jellicoe was treated in a very shabby manner by the politicians - especially David Lloyd George. Mr. Massie, while admiring Churchill, thinks he made many mistakes during his tenure as First Lord (and not just during the Dardanelles/Gallipoli period), and that these mistakes were caused by Churchill's overconfidence, coupled with his total lack of any background regarding naval affairs. Setting aside Jacky Fisher's histrionics and peevish personality, Mr. Massie generally gives the First Sea Lord high marks for his perspicacity regarding military matters. After all, Fisher made the WWI British navy what it was, and he also realized the importance of submarines. The author makes a strong case that Fisher clearly knew that the Dardanelles/Gallipoli campaign, if done the way it was ultimately done, would be a huge mistake. Churchill, with his youth, energy, eloquence and misplaced (in this case) self-confidence wore down Fisher and, at least for awhile, got the First Sea Lord to shelve his doubts and get &quot;on-board&quot; regarding the scheme. Mr. Massie takes the sensible view that the German use of unrestricted submarine warfare forced a very reluctant Woodrow Wilson to commit the U.S. to the war. While American forces didn't win the war, the huge numbers of fresh troops streaming into Europe made it clear to Germany that she no longer had any realistic prospect of victory - hence, the German decision to accept an armistice. Mr. Massie wisely steers clear of counterfactuals, but it is interesting to think about what might have happened if Germany had resisted the use of unrestricted submarine warfare and the U.S. had stayed out of the war. At the very least, the one million German soldiers who were freed up for use on the Western front due to the collapse of Russia would not have been counterbalanced by the flood of American troops. A minor criticism of the book is the lack of maps. They are few and far between and some more would have been very helpful in following along during the extended battle sequences. But, hey, when a book is this good...well, you can't have everything!	2003-11-17
US	51300959	RSKLLY25N0OB6	0743246543	674282901	General Washington's Christmas Farewell: A Mount Vernon Homecoming, 1783	Books	4	40	41	N	Y	Goin' South......	Don't be put-off by the cheesy title of this book. Yes...it's obviously a marketing ploy meant to tie in to the holiday season. In any case, Mr. Weintraub has crafted an interesting book. We follow Washington from West Point to Mount Vernon, as he tries to get home for Christmas. Most notably, he stops in New York City, Philadelphia, and Annapolis. In NYC he says farewell to his officers. He also puzzles his subordinates by going to visit a bookseller who is a known Tory sympathizer. (Unknown to Washington's underlings, the man was part of the commander-in-chief's network of spies who kept Washington informed of the goings-on in British occupied NYC.) In Philadelphia, amongst other things, Washington orders some new spectacles from the noted scientist David Rittenhouse. In Annapolis, Washington returns his commission to Congress, thus making formal his resignation from public service and return to private life. The book is only about 175 pages and can easily be read in a day or two. However, Mr. Weintraub manages to provide a lot of information. Some of it is interesting on a \\"serious\\" level - for example, we see Washington at the start of the journey insisting that his departure from public life will be permanent. He made several speeches on the way home, and he constantly stressed that Congress needed strong legislative powers so that it could hold the bickering colonies together. By the time he reached Annapolis, Washington had come to the conclusion that it was going to be an extremely difficult process to turn a loose confederation, which no longer had the \\"glue\\" of battling a common enemy , into a true nation. Washington was not being an egomaniac, just realistic, when he came to understand that he was the only person who could be a unifying force. Therefore, when he gave the speech in Annapolis in which he resigned his commission as commander-in-chief he changed the language so as to leave the door open for a later return to public service, if such a thing proved to be necessary...which it did. Washington was remarkably unambitious for someone who was held in such awe. He was, indeed, the man who could have been king. (In his own day, everyone wanted to touch him, as though he were holy. Many years later, people had relics - as though he were a saint. Lincoln had a splinter of Washington's coffin contained in a gold ring he wore. McKinley had several strands of Washington's hair.) We owe Washington an eternal debt that he turned his back on dictatorship. On the lighter side, we see Washington the man, warts and all. We see him losing his temper, we see his pride in his dancing ability, his love of fine wine, etc. We also get to hear about his expense account, where it seems as though he put down every possible item, down to the last pound, shilling, and pence. (He even included tips he had given out to people who had waited on him.) I especially enjoyed the little personal touches that Mr. Weintraub included - such as letting us know that the 6'4\\" Washington slept in a 6'6\\" bed. The author also tells us about the time that Washington fired a Mount Vernon gardener for getting drunk. Then, when the man expressed remorse and wanted his job back, Washington agreed....but he made the man sign a contract specifying that he could only get looped at certain times of the year. For example, he was allowed 4 days of drunkenness around Christmas! The book, on rare occasions, becomes tedious when Mr. Weintraub gives us excerpts from speeches delivered during the various \\"farewell\\" dinners. But, for the most part, this book will hold your interest with its nice balance between the public and the private Washington.	2003-11-03
US	51300959	R11RR3K1HZLK2O	0802714064	926540207	Edison and the Electric Chair: A Story of Light and Death	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Can You Be Sure, Once You've Been &quot;Westinghoused&quot;?	I should raise a warning flag to start this review: if you are squeamish, or an animal lover, this book might be a bit too much for you. There are several horrific episodes involving detailed descriptions of botched executions, as well as descriptions of electrocution experiments performed on dogs, calves, and horses. Mr. Essig's intent is not to be sensationalistic. He wants to show us that when Thomas Edison said that death by electrocution would be quick and painless, he was engaging in wishful thinking. (At least to start with. After experiments on animals showed that this form of execution was not an exact science- nobody knew, really, what voltage to use or for how long; nor were they sure of how electricity killed - he may have stooped to being disingenuous. Edison thought alternating current was dangerous, plus he didn't like George Westinghouse. Westinghouse kept infringing on Edison's patents. Edison was pushing alternating current for use with the electric chair, to drive home to the public his belief that alternating current was too dangerous for commercial use.) This book works well on many levels. We see Edison trying to get alternating current used with the electric chair, while Westinghouse tries to fight back, via his lawyers, by showing execution via electrocution was messy and unreliable, and hence was &quot;cruel and unusual punishment.&quot; The book is also good at describing the more general competition between Edison's direct current and Westinghouse's alternating current. It takes some careful reading, but you get to learn the advantages and disadvantages of both systems at that time, and how elbow grease and creativity were used to overcome some of the problems. Also, considering that this is not really a biography, Mr. Essig gives a pretty well-rounded portrait of Edison. He was pretty eccentric - for example, sleeping under a bench or on the floor of a closet at the Menlo Park laboratory - but he wasn't lacking in social skills. He was charming and witty and he was very good at promoting himself and his inventions. Like all interesting people, he was complex: when Edison's daughter told him she was writing a novel, Edison told her &quot;that in the case of a marriage to put in bucketfulls [sic] of misery. This would make it realistic.&quot; However, after Edison's first wife (Mary) died at the age of 29, Edison - the supposed cynic, misogynist, and misogamist - quickly fell under the spell of the 19 year old Mina Miller, and didn't hesitate to marry her. The man who supposedly thought about his work 24 hours a day remarked that while walking through Boston he &quot;got thinking about Mina and came near being run over by a street car.&quot; Regarding Edison's wit and sense of humor, the following is just one of many examples contained in the book: Edison bought his daughter Marion a pet parrot, but the bird never learned to speak. Edison complained that the bird had &quot;the taciturnity of a statue, and the dirt producing capacity of a drove of Buffalo.&quot; One of the many things I learned from this book was that, contrary to popular belief, Edison never called execution by electricity being &quot;Westinghoused.&quot; One of his lawyers came up with the expression for possible use in the public relations war between the two men. To Edison's credit, he rejected using the word as a synonym for electrocution. Other examples of areas this book explores are the work environment at Menlo Park (where the men would go out into the midnight darkness, accompanied by a dog holding a lantern between his teeth, to buy some food and beer to bring back to the workshop); the politics of the time (bribes being paid to either pass a bill to institute execution by electricity rather than hanging, or to kill such a bill); the fallibility of &quot;experts&quot; (who made uneducated guesses on how electrocution caused death, how much current to use, etc.); and the irresponsibility of the newspapers of the time (going from one extreme to the other in admiring or denigrating both Einstein and Westinghouse; calling the electric chair a wonderful and humane invention one moment and an awful example of barbarity the next). If the book has one fault, it is that Mr. Essig uses the battle between Edison and Westinghouse to slip in his personal opposition to capital punishment. I don't feel this falls within the scope of the story, and he should have resisted the urge to use the book as a soapbox. That being said, this is still a very well-written, well-researched, and fascinating book.rom one extreme to the other in admiring or denigrating both Einstein and Westinghouse; calling the electric chair a wonderful and humane invention one moment and an awful example of barbarity the next). If the book has one fault, it is that Mr. Essig uses the battle between Edison and Westinghouse to slip in his personal opposition to capital punishment. I don't feel this falls within the scope of the story, and he should have resisted the urge to use the book as a soapbox. That being said, this is still a very well-written, well-researched, and fascinating book.	2003-10-31
US	51300959	R2XA7YIQV0BVCJ	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	35	37	N	Y	Around The World In 3 Years And 60,000 Miles	Why couldn't they have used books like this as history textbooks back when I was in high school? All I was taught back then was that Magellan's expedition was the first to circumnavigate the globe (even though he himself died along the way); that the voyage took 3 years; and that although Magellan was from Portugal, he sailed for Spain. Here's some of the good stuff they left out (but which Mr. Bergreen includes): Magellan tried to get King Manuel of Portugal to finance the expedition. Magellan didn't have any luck. (Not surprising, since the explorer already had &quot;a history&quot; with the king, and the king didn't like him.) What could have been the last straw for Magellan was when, after an audience with the king, Magellan tried to kiss the king's hand (as was customary). The king withdrew his hand and wouldn't allow Magellan to kiss it. Magellan finally decided to give Manuel the kiss-off, went to Charles I of Spain, and had better luck. Charles was quite interested in the potential profits from the spice trade. (He was broke after borrowing a wad of money from the Fugger family. The reason he borrowed the money? He had to pay a lot of bribes to the electors who were going to decide who the next Holy Roman Emperor was going to be. Charles wanted the position even though, as Voltaire later said, the Holy Roman Empire wasn't holy, wasn't Roman, and wasn't an empire.) Manuel of Portugal was quite upset with Magellan for offering his services to Spain, especially because he brought secret Portuguese navigational charts with him (which Mr. Bergreen explains would be equivalent to the theft of nuclear secrets during the Cold War). Manuel sent an envoy to Spain to try and talk Magellan out of the trip. When that didn't work, the envoy bad-mouthed Magellan to Charles I. That didn't work either. After Magellan sailed, Manuel really got mad: he sent some thugs to harass Magellan's family and to vandalize the family home. For good measure, excrement was smeared on the Magellan escutcheon. Manuel also sent out his own expedition to try to catch up with, and stop, Magellan. I guess you could say the king was a sore loser. Anyway, this all takes place in the beginning of the story. Things get better after that. (For example, we learn that Charles I's mother was called Juana the Mad. One reason for this just could have been that for several years Juana kept the remains of her late husband, Philip the Handsome, next to her bed. She expected him to come back to life and wanted him in a convenient spot. After Philip's death Juana also insisted on only dressing in black and she refused to bathe.) The book is chock full of 16th century realpolitik, mutinies, torture, natural history, as well as information on spices and the erotic practices of various Pacific Islanders. We also get to read some interesting material about the 15th century Chinese Treasure Fleets. Mr. Bergreen is obviously a big Magellan fan, but he doesn't put the great navigator's faults below deck - Magellan could be overly strict, arrogant, and close-minded. As the voyage went on and he finally made it to the Pacific he seemed to forget that his primary mission was to find the Spice Islands and he got sidetracked into converting islanders to Christianity. If any groups resisted, Magellan would resort to hardball - in one case, burning down a village. His &quot;bull in a china shop&quot; tactics resulted in his death. Still, the author leaves you with no doubt that, on balance, Magellan was admirable. The book is incredibly far-ranging in scope and I've only skimmed the surface concerning what is between the covers - and we're supposed to keep these reviews relatively brief. In conclusion though, let me say if I were doing the advertising for the book I'd write, &quot;If you read only one book about an explorer this year...make it this one!&quot;	2003-10-28
US	51300959	R1DPTI70R5SNHU	0743229266	701268438	TILT : A Skewed History of the Tower of Pisa	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Very Enjoyable Slice Of Pisa	One thing I need to mention right up front: if you are looking for a very detailed architectural/engineering sort of book (a la Ross King's &quot;Brunelleschi's Dome&quot; and &quot;Michelangelo And The Pope's Ceiling), you are going to be disappointed with &quot;Tilt.&quot; Mr. Shrady gives you the structural basics - why the Tower started to tilt, how a recent &quot;team&quot; was able to decrease some of the tilting in order to &quot;shore up&quot; the Tower, etc. - but the book is mostly a cultural history, with the Tower at the center of a spiderlike web of information. The author gives you some Pisan history - its rise as a maritime commercial power as it provided transportation and supplies during the various Crusades; its final decline after a crushing naval defeat at the hands of Genoa in 1284 (which resulted in the 13th century joke: &quot;To see Pisa, you must now go to Genoa&quot;); the humiliation of the entire city being sold to the Visconti of Milan in 1399 and (apparently speculation in real estate is not a modern concept) being sold again, this time to Florence, in 1405; etc. Mr. Shrady does explain that, due to interruptions, the Tower took about 200 years to complete; it's made of marble; and it's basically a &quot;column made up of columns.&quot; The book is full of much interesting information. For example, during the &quot;Romantic Age&quot; the Tower became a popular place for self-destruction ( eventually the authorities came up with a regulation that no fewer than 3 people at a time could climb to the to top of the bell tower. This was meant to stop individual and &quot;couple&quot; suicides). We also learn that Mussolini was embarrassed by the &quot;Faulty Tower.&quot; He felt it didn't represent the Italian people at their best (for that they needed to hark back to the days of the Roman Empire). Mussolini convened a commission to come up with a way of straightening out the Tower. The experts couldn't agree on what to do, so IL DUCE did what any hands-on, take-charge sort of dictator would - he made the call. One expert suggested piping 90 tons of liquid cement into the foundation. (This was something Mussolini could understand- putting some &quot;backbone&quot; into the thing!) Most of the experts said it wouldn't work, and they were right. The Tower, instead of just leaning one way, began to wobble around in a weird sort of dance (we're talking millimeters) and after many months it, luckily, pretty much wound up where it started (rather than collapsing). (In all fairness, there have been many commissions, and none of them could figure out what to do until the most recent one - which was the 17th! That one convened in 1990 and just got the Tower &quot;up and running&quot; again in 2001. Even they almost got laughed out of business in 1995 when the Tower almost collapsed while stabilizing cables were being installed.) Mr. Shrady is also very good at debunking some historical myths concerning the Tower. For example, despite the story being passed down from historian to historian, Galileo never climbed the Tower and dropped objects of differing weights off (to show that the objects would fall at the same rate). Another myth is that the Tower leans due to sloppy construction. Not so, according to Mr. Shrady. The workmanship was fine. The boggy, unstable soil under the foundation is the problem (and is a problem throughout Pisa, not just under the Tower). Even though I enjoyed the book, and was happy to follow the author as he meandered down some historical sideroads, I still would have liked it if he had seen his way to providing a little more technical information about the construction of the Tower (and perhaps an exploration of some theories concerning how the structure has defied gravity and avoided being &quot;downsized&quot; to street level). Still, reading this book was a lot of fun...literally. Its &quot;Pisa-like&quot; shape causes the pages to sort of resemble a &quot;pinned butterfly&quot; when you open the book. It took a few pages to get used to, but in the end I found the difference from reading a regular book to be an interesting one.	2003-10-24
US	51300959	RFI4TCB4E3MIE	0375415238	771529181	Disarmed: The Story of the Venus de Milo	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Alexandros The Great	What a remarkable book, especially for a \\"first-time\\" author! There is so much fascinating information contained in the space of 200 pages, it's a tribute to Mr. Curtis (and his editor) that he was able to sandwich everything in - and to keep the sandwich neat and tidy. The book is a joy to read, from when the statue is uncovered by a farmer on the Aegean island of Melos right up until the final flourish, when Mr. Curtis presents his conclusions concerning who sculpted the Venus, when it was done, and what makes the statue a great piece of art. At first, there was a dispute about who was going to get possession of the Venus - the Turks or the French. Mr. Curtis explains why it was so important for the French to bring home this prize: Greek works were considered the epitome of art, if they were from the classical period (around the 4th century B.C.). It was thought that you could do no better than to imitate what the Greeks had done, and the best way to imitate the Greeks was to have their works where your own artists could study them, copy them, and gain inspiration from them. The British had the famous Elgin marbles and the Vatican had the Apollo Belvedere (which was removed from the Louvre and returned to Italy after Napoleon's final defeat), so it was very important to the French that they \\"bring home the bacon\\" and get the Venus to Paris. Mr. Curtis did extensive research and it really shows: in addition to the story of the Venus, we learn a lot about Greek society, including the role of women and female sexuality. Mr. Curtis also gives us a crash course in Greek mythology (we need this information in order to understand his conclusions about why the statue was located where it was, its purpose, and what position the missing arms would have been in and what they were doing). The author also gives us a blow-by-blow description of the \\"battles of the scholars.\\" French scholars were desperate to prove that the sculpture came from the \\"right\\" (classical) period andwas not carved at a later date. (This was due to the huge influence of a thinker named Johann Winckelmann, who stated that Greek art from after the classical period was inferior.) Battling against the \\"French School\\" was the highly respected Adolf Furtwangler, who concluded (based on physical evidence found at the same site where the Venus had been unearthed) that the statue was created during the Hellenistic period, sometime around 100 B.C. This argument seems silly to us - after all, if the Venus is a great work of art, what's the difference? But it points out the importance of historical context and frames of reference. At that time, it was important to the cognoscenti that the sculpture have the right pedigree. This all allows Mr. Curtis to have a lot of fun showing us the mental \\"loop-the-loops\\" the various scholars went through trying to prove they were right and their opponents were wrong. This included much wishful thinking and groundless speculation, in addition to selective use of the available data. (Does this sound surprisingly modern to anyone out there?) Another section of the book I really enjoyed was where Mr. Curtis explained how the Venus de Milo would have been displayed back at the time she was created. Based on standard practice of the time, she would have been adorned with bracelets, earrings and a necklace; her hair would have been painted blonde and her lips would have been painted red; likewise, her drapery would have been painted. Mr. Curtis explains that nowadays we would think all of this would ruin the statue, but to the Greeks it all would have made her more lifelike. Over the years many people were involved with the story of the Venus de Milo, and the author doesn't miss out on the chance to humanize the story by letting us in on their idiosyncrasies. For example, one of the Frenchmen who went to Melos to try and get possession of the statue after the discovery was the comte de Marcellus. He was very eager to sail to the island, but not because he was an art lover. He had happened to see a beautiful girl in a painting by a Viennese painter by the name of Johann Ender. Marcellus was obsessed with the girl in the painting, and found out from Ender that she lived on Melos. So, Marcellus was interested in beauty - but not of the inanimate kind! The aforementioned Furtwangler was also a rather interesting specimen - he proposed to his future wife, Adelheid Wendt, on the first night he met her. As with many brilliant men, Furtwangler had no use for brains that he perceived as operating at a lower wattage. Thus, he referred to a fellow scholar as a \\"complete ignoramus\\" and he was never happier than when he was able to pick out a museum's prize piece and label it a fake. The book is full of people such as Marcellus and Furtwangler - brilliant, odd, and entertaining. There is one last thing I should mention: the title of my review refers to the artist who sculpted the Venus, a Greek man named Alexandros of Antioch. He also wrote poetry, and composed and sang songs. Those works are all lost to us, but we still cherish his greatest creation.	2003-10-21
US	51300959	RUNP7HM2T7EOU	080211752X	461530830	The Sword and the Cross: Two Men and an Empire of Sand	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Disappointing Book From One Of My Favorite Writers	I'd previously read, and enjoyed, both \\"Barrow's Boys\\" and \\"Killing Dragons.\\" So, I fully expected to enjoy \\"The Sword And The Cross.\\" Alas, it was not meant to be. The first hundred pages or so held my interest. After that, I just kept reading for the sake of finishing the book. Not a pleasant experience. So, what happened? Mr. Fleming wanted to tell us about the history of the French colonial experience in Algeria and the Sahara. He chose to do this by primarily concentrating on two people: Charles de Foucauld and Henri Laperrine. Unfortunately, the first fellow was so bizarre that it was impossible to sympathize with him. He was a hedonist turned religious fanatic. He was a masochist. Where others travelled by camel in desert temperatures of 120 degrees farenheit, Foucauld chose to walk. He ate almost nothing. He refused to indulge himself with creature comforts. He longed for death. (I'm not guessing about this or playing armchair psychiatrist. Fleming quotes several times from Foucauld's journal concerning his lifelong deathwish.) Foucauld wanted to convert Moslems to Christianity and set himself up as an example of a person living a Christian life. However, he really had no interest in other people and longed for solitude. Not surprisingly, he failed to gain converts. Despite espousing Christian principles, he was very inconsiderate of his long-suffering manservant and he spent much of his lifetime gathering intelligence to pass on to the French military. Mr. Fleming quotes many people who looked upon Foucauld as a holy-man. It is clear that, in person, he possessed \\"a certain something\\" which caused people to look upon him that way. Unfortunately, it doesn't come across on the page. One gets only the impression of an egocentric, unhappy, and self-destructive \\"nut.\\" We wind up not caring about what he does or what happens to him. With Laperrine we have a different problem. Not much is known about him and he wasn't big on self-publicity. Hence, he floats in and out of the narrative and we never get a handle on who he is and what he wants, other than that he wanted France to be successful in the colonization of the Sahara. One of Fleming's major themes is that the French really had no compelling reason to be in the Sahara. It was sort of, \\"well, everybody else has colonies, so we want some too...even if we are talking about thousands of miles of desert.\\" At one point, Fleming enjoys writing about one \\"native notable\\" who agreed to go to France for a visit. Upon returning home to Africa, he was mystified as to why people who \\"had Paris\\" would want to come to the desert. Fleming's point is that there was no point - after the initial contacts, the French presence just sort of snowballed. The book is filled with numerous trips through the desert by the French military, as they try to prove to the Arabs and Tuaregs that they are in control. But, since the whole thing is so pointless, we wind up not caring about any of this. Frankly, it is monotonous and boring to read about. I am a Francophile, and Mr. Fleming is a very good writer, but I couldn't get worked up about any of this. I suppose that if you are French, this background to what became the \\"Algerian Nightmare\\" of the mid-20th century (a military quagmire with terrorist attacks, to boot) might be of some scholarly interest. Otherwise, for the general reader, I just can't recommend this book.out of the narrative and we never get a handle on who he is and what he wants, other than that he wanted France to be successful in the colonization of the Sahara. One of Fleming's major themes is that the French really had no compelling reason to be in the Sahara. It was sort of, \\"well, everybody else has colonies, so we want some too...even if we are talking about thousands of miles of desert.\\" At one point, Fleming enjoys writing about one \\"native notable\\" who agreed to go to France for a visit. Upon returning home to Africa, he was mystified as to why people who \\"had Paris\\" would want to come to the desert. Fleming's point is that there was no point - after the initial contacts, the French presence just sort of snowballed. The book is filled with numerous trips through the desert by the French military, as they try to prove to the Arabs and Tuaregs that they are in control. But, since the whole thing is so pointless, we wind up not caring about any of this. Frankly, it is monotonous and boring to read about. I am a Francophile, and Mr. Fleming is a very good writer, but I couldn't get worked up about any of this. I suppose that if you are French, this background to what became the \\"Algerian Nightmare\\" of the mid-20th century (a military quagmire with terrorist attacks, to boot) might be of some scholarly interest. Otherwise, for the general reader, I just can't recommend this book.	2003-10-16
US	51300959	RN0KUE2KOIQAO	0670031690	201299474	Great Fortune: The Epic of Rockefeller Center	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Rockefellers, Rockettes, Radio City And Diego Rivera	Daniel Okrent provides both the big picture: the history, the architecture and the architects, the politics and the economics of the project, etc., and the little picture: &quot;In 1965 (Radio City) maintenance workers were still scraping twenty pounds of chewing gum off the undersides of the auditorium's seats each day.&quot; Mr. Okrent tells us that the story really began when Columbia University, which owned 11.7 acres of prime midtown real estate but was making peanuts from the property, agreed to lease the land to John D. Rockefeller Jr. ( known as Junior - to differentiate him from his father, the oil baron, known as Senior). One of the reasons Junior got involved was that Otto Kahn, a wealthy opera-loving New Yorker with a majority interest in the Metropolitan Opera Company (and who owned 2 season tickets to the opera: one seat reserved for himself, and one for his hat and coat), wanted a nicer venue. The then current opera house, at 40th Street and Broadway, had been around awhile and was getting a bit seedy. But although Kahn had a majority interest in the opera company, he didn't have control of the opera house itself, whose wealthy owners were represented by a fellow by the name of R. Fulton Cutting. As you might expect, political infighting and difficulties ensued, and the Met dropped out of the running as a possible &quot;anchor&quot; for the proposed development. Anyway, that's just the starting point for Mr. Okrent. He follows the story as Junior's company buys up residential and commercial leases in the area. Mr. Okrent gets a chuckle over the fact that both Columbia and the blueblood Fifth Avenue Association were aghast that entertainment related businesses such as RCA and RKO were going to be involved in the new project. (The reason for the laughter? Many of the prior leases were held by people who ran flophouses, bordellos and speakeasies.) The author informs us that Rockefeller Center (Junior was very reluctant, by the way, to name the development after the family. He thought it was bad form to toot his own horn.) pretty much, single-handedly, kept the construction industry going in NYC during the Depression (after the Empire State Building was completed in 1931). Laborers and companies were desperate for jobs, which helped keep them humble and kept construction costs down. When U.S. Steel got the steel contract, the president of the company was so grateful that he came, in person, to sign the deal. He didn't even bring any lawyers with him. (Can you imagine such a thing today?) On the other hand, since times were tough, it was difficult to rent out so much office space. Rockefeller's minions played some hardball in this area as well. When the contract to put in elevators was up for grabs (the largest expense - after steel - representing 13% of construction costs), it was made quite clear that breaking your lease and moving into spanking new offices at Rockefeller Center would be greatly appreciated. Otis Elevator balked. Westinghouse thought a change of scenery might do them good. Westinghouse got the contract. An alternate title for this review could be, &quot;If You Build It, They Will Come To Like It.&quot; Columbia and The Fifth Avenue Association, as mentioned, were dismayed by who was moving into the neighborhood, commercially speaking. Critics, such as Lewis Mumford, lambasted the architecture, in both professional journals and in influential upscale popular magazines such as &quot;The New Yorker.&quot; (After years of venomous criticism, Mumford did a 180 and all of a sudden thought Rockefeller Center was the greatest thing since sliced bread. He never explained his about face and never even acknowledged his prior negative opinion. Ah....critics!) Where does Diego Rivera come into the picture, you might wonder? Nelson Rockefeller, only in his 20's but already a lover of modern art, brought the famous Mexican muralist (and communist) on board to paint a mural in a place of honor in the lobby of theRCA building. Nelson was able to tolerate most aspects of the mural, for example the depiction of cops apparently getting ready to rumble with the workers, while high society types in evening dress quaffed cocktails. However, when Rivera decided to up the ante by adding the mug of V.I. Lenin to the mural,(and wouldn't back down - he was trying to get back into the good graces of the Communist Party, from which he had been ejected for consorting with known capitalists) that was the last straw: some of &quot;the workers&quot; were enlisted to pound the plaster into powder. Finally, Mr. Okrent doesn't neglect bigotry and racism. For example, the first black Rockette wasn't hired until 1987; black entertainers weren't allowed, for many years, to perform in the famed &quot;Rainbow Room&quot;; and &quot;The Luncheon Club&quot; (back in the 1930's) had a quota which capped Jewish membership at 3.5 percent. As the club's president explained, &quot;because it was exactly the proportion of Jews in the American population.&quot; It's all in this witty and beautifully written book - from soup (and lawsuits) to nuts (and rivets).	2003-10-14
US	51300959	RM3WG8LCOTSTF	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	Love's Labors Last	Oddly enough, I first became fascinated by words and their meanings many moons ago when I learned the difference between etymology and entymology (and had to use the &quot;trick&quot; of remembering that, because it contained an &quot;n&quot;, as did the word insect, entymology was the word which meant the study of insects, and etymology was the word that defined the study of the history and development of words). The world, thank goodness, is full of people who love words and language, and Simon Winchester is one of those people. His enthusiasm comes through on every page of this wonderful book. One gets the impression that Mr. Winchester, if he possessed a time machine, would happily go back to, say, 1880, and be one of the numerous and unsung readers that sent in &quot;slips&quot; to the editors of the &quot;great dictionary project,&quot; to show the various historical usages of words. As Mr. Winchester points out, this was a labor of love by the few who were paid, and by the many who were unpaid. The man who was mainly responsible for the form the dictionary assumed, its thoroughness and layout, and who guided the great project from when he signed a formal contract in March 1879, up until his death in 1915, was James Murray. (The 1879 contract, by the way, specified that the project would be completed within 10 years. It wasn't. The OED wasn't completed until 1928, 13 years after Murray's death.) Murray was an amazing man. Although he had very little formal education, he was intellectually formidable - being familiar with over 20 languages. As Mr. Winchester points out, though, Victorian England seemed to produce an inordinate number of such people - and quite a few of them contributed to the creation of the dictionary. A great deal of the fun of this book comes from learning about the personalities of some of these people. Murray's predecessor, Frederick Furnivall, was a brilliant man, but he lacked staying power and lost interest in the project - leaving things in a muddle. (When Murray took over he had to try to track down millions of the vital &quot;usage slips&quot; that were scattered all over the place - Furnivall had some and readers all over England, Europe and North America had others. There were sacks and sacks of crumbling, moldy, wet, and sometimes illegible slips. One sack had a dead rat in it. Another sack had a family of mice living quite happily amongst all that paper, which was perfect &quot;nesting material.&quot;) Unfortunately for the dictionary, Furnivall seemed to be more interested in women. He dumped his wife and, at the age of 58, took up with his 21 year old secretary. He was also very interested in sculling, and managed to combine his two favorite interests by frequenting the local teashop and gathering up as many pretty waitresses as he could, and taking them out on the river to teach them the joys of sculling. Another interesting man was Henry Bradley, who became joint senior editor in 1896. He had taught himself Russian in 14 days, and had the uncanny ability to read a book when it was upside down. Mr. Winchester also mentions that the editors sometimes consulted &quot;linguistic advisers,&quot; such as James Platt &quot;who knew scores of languages and once famously declared that the first twelve tongues were always the most difficult, but having mastered them, the following hundred should not pose too much of a problem.&quot; Sometimes Mr. Winchester mentions a contributor only, I suspect, because of the author's love of language: he relishes telling us about the &quot;magnificently named&quot; Hereward Thimbleby Price, who was born in - are you ready for this? - Amatolakinandisamisichana, Madagascar. The author tells us that the dictionary was supposed to take 10 years, but it took 54; it was supposed to be 7,000 pages, but it wound up being 16,000; and, it was supposed to cost 9,000 pounds, but wound up costing 300,000 pounds. Lest you think think the delays and cost overruns have something to do with British academic quirkiness, Mr. Winchester informs us that it is much more a matter of thoroughness. He points out that a German dictionary started in 1838 was not finished until 1961; a Dutch dictionary started in 1851 was not completed until 1998; and the Swedes, who started a comprehensive dictionary back in the 1800's, are currently stuck on the letter S. &quot;The Meaning of Everything&quot; is a great story, well and lovingly told by Mr. Winchester, full of incredibly bright and interesting people, and - best of all - giving you a behind-the-scenes look at the labor-intensive creation of this great dictionary.	2003-10-08
US	51300959	R2TMY0FOEWFX9V	006008877X	224204374	Evolution's Captain: The Dark Fate of the Man Who Sailed Charles Darwin Around the World	Books	4	34	36	N	Y	&quot;The only thing that bothered Fitzroy was Darwin's face.&quot;	Poor Robert Fitzroy has been relegated to the footnotes section of history....oh yes, wasn't he the captain of &quot;The Beagle&quot;? Yes he was, but he was much more. He was also a member of Parliament, a governor of New Zealand, and he founded the British government's Meteorological Office. The downside of Peter Nichols' book is he gives rather short shrift to these generally unknown aspects of Fitzroy's career. But, when Mr. Nichols is on his home turf (the ocean, if that isn't a non sequitur!), he sparkles. He is clearly most happy when discussing Fitzroy the &quot;boy wonder&quot; captain and surveyor. (Fitzroy was in his mid-twenties when he squired young Mr. Darwin around the world.) We can feel the ocean spray and smell the salt air. Not only that, but we really feel that we get to know Fitzroy. He was an excellent and brave captain. He cared about his men. He was also intelligent and charming. On the less pleasant side, he had a very thin skin, a bad temper, and was subject to bouts of depression. During five long years at sea Darwin got to see every facet of Fitzroy. Mr. Nichols is also fascinating when he writes about the four Fuegians that Fitzroy brought back to England...hoping to &quot;civilize&quot; them and bring them back to further spread British culture along the southern tip of South America. The second voyage of &quot;The Beagle&quot; with Fitzroy as captain was the voyage where Fitzroy brought the natives back home, and it was also the voyage with Darwin on board as naturalist. Fitzroy was a strong believer in phrenology, and initially had doubts about Darwin because of Darwin's &quot;hooded brow and large, spatulate nose.&quot; Fortunately for science, Fitzroy was won over by Darwin's intelligence and genial personality. Both men started the journey with a great deal of scientific curiosity and with orthodox religious beliefs. Darwin's theories led him to atheism. Fitzroy remained very religious all his life. If it hadn't been for Fitzroy, Darwin likely never would have come up with his theory of evolution by natural selection. The irony of this wasn't lost on Fitzroy. Again, all this is well, even brilliantly, told by Mr. Nichols. The book loses steam when we read about the later developments in Fitzroy's life, but the rest of this book is so good that we can forgive Mr. Nichols for not being able to maintain the high level of writing throughout. The definitive biography of Robert Fitzroy remains to be written, but this book goes a long way in bringing him off the bottom of the page.	2003-10-07
US	51300959	RHMI6JP3IIRLD	1585422215	304353958	Strapless: John Singer Sargent and the Fall of Madame X	Books	5	144	152	N	Y	&quot;The unpaintable beauty and hopeless laziness...&quot;	The title of this review refers to something John Singer Sargent wrote in a letter when he was attempting to complete the &quot;Madame X,&quot; painting. He was having a great deal of difficulty in deciding what pose Madame Gautreau should adopt for the painting. It didn't help that the 24 year old woman appeared to suffer from Attention Deficit Disorder: she hated to hold a pose. She was rich, she was young, and, well, she had other things to do! I have to admit that when I read on the book jacket that &quot;Deborah Davis is a writer and veteran film executive...&quot;,I was a bit put off. I thought, &quot;Oh, this is going to be presented in a 'Hollywood' way, with a lot of style but no substance.&quot; Well, shame on me. Ms. Davis (who admits she is not an art &quot;expert&quot;) has written a very good book. Although the book is relatively brief, the author covers a lot of ground. Even though the book is not meant to be a biography of Sargent, we still get a pretty good feel for what the man was like: sensitive, intelligent, ambitious, lonely and sexually conflicted. Sargent had already made a pretty good name for himself before he painted Amelie Gautreau. By painting a celebrated beauty, however, he was going for the brass ring - he was hoping to become even more well known and to generate more commissions for portraits of the rich and famous. When Ms. Davis talks about the actual public display of the painting at the 1884 Paris Salon, she also is quite good. We learn about the quirks of a culture where it was perfectly fine to have acres of naked flesh cavorting in a historical painting, but it was scandalous to have a fallen shoulder strap if you were painting a real, contemporary woman. Although this is not an academic work, it is still fascinating from a psychological/sociological standpoint. While Sargent was working on the portrait, Amelie (and her mother) thought it was wonderful. However, after the critics trashed it (and the public found it immoral), mother and daughter wanted nothing more to do with it. Sargent kept the painting because Amelie Gautreau wouldn't buy it. She had wanted fame, but not of this sort. Sargent had to &quot;re-group&quot; and for later Salons came up with paintings that were non-controversial but still showed off his virtuosity. After awhile the scandal was forgotten and Sargent was back in vogue. (In a classic case of &quot;Be careful what you wish for, you might get it,&quot; in later years Sargent was so much in demand for portraits that he no longer wanted to do them. As Ms. Davis writes, &quot;Sargent derisively spelled the word 'paughtrait,' and declared 'No more mugs!' to whoever would listen.) As Amelie Gautreau got older, and as the public forgot about her, she, sadly, began longing for any kind of fame. She commissioned other portraits, none of which could measure up to Sargent's. In 1891, in a pictorial shout for attention, she had Gustave Courtois do a portrait of her: she posed in a white gown (rather than the black gown she had worn for Sargent), with, yes, a fallen shoulder strap. If this book has any fault, it is that Amelie Gautreau comes across as a bit of a cipher. All we see are her vanity and attempts to bring attention to herself. It's a bit of a caricature, really. I'm not sure if that's because there's a paucity of information about her (especially when compared to Sargent) or if it's because it bolsters Ms. Davis's argument that with &quot;Madame X,&quot; Sargent was trying to portray an exemplar of a shallow segment of society. Still, as a study of Sargent, of ambition - both professional and social, and of the late 19th century Paris art world (and of how artistic reputations rise and fall like the tides), this is a very rewarding read.	2003-10-03
US	51300959	RBXH4M5LEIA5L	1582341931	746786501	The Billy Ruffian: The Bellerophon and the Downfall of Napoleon	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Wherever there is water..we are sure to find you in our way.	Sorry I couldn't fit the whole quote in the title to this review. The above is an excerpt of something said to Captain Maitland of the \\"Bellerophon\\" in the summer of 1815 when Napoleon was being held on board, waiting to learn what his fate would be. (He hoped to be allowed to buy and live in a home in the English countryside. Alas, it was not to be.) Here is the full quote: \\"If it had not been for you English, I should have been Emperor of the East; but wherever there is water to float a ship, we are sure to find you in our way.\\" As David Cordingly demonstrates in this wonderful book, the \\"Bellerophon,\\" during the period 1794-1815, was an integral part of \\"find(ing) you in our way.\\" Before ending her career as a \\"floating prison\\" she was in the thick of the action at the Battle of the Glorious First of June, the Battle of the Nile, and the Battle of Trafalgar...in addition to pulling extensive blockade duties, and being a temporary home/prison for Napoleon before it was decided to place him on St. Helena. Mr. Cordingly calls this a biography of a ship of the line, and he is true to his word. To start, we learn about the construction of the ship (it was built based on a \\"generic\\" design by sir Thomas Slade. Slade was a great ship designer and \\"it became recognised that a British ship could invariably beat a French ship...even though the French ship might be up to 50 percent more powerful in terms of her guns\\"). This gives Mr. Cordingly the opportunity to tell us about how ships were built at this time - how long it took, what kind of wood was used (oak - the trees had to be a certain age, not too young or too old, and they were \\"branded\\" after selection so that the public would know they'd been selected for use by the navy), etc. Sometimes, after construction had started at the dockyard, the ship would be left sitting for several years, so the wood could age properly. I found this entire section fascinating. However, if this kind of information isn't your cup of tea, have no fear - the author quickly gets down to the business of battle. In the past I'd read quite a bit about the Battle of the Nile, and the Battle of Trafalgar, but I had never read anything about the Battle of the Glorious First of June, so I learned quite a bit in that section. (It was interesting to read that Lord Howe, who was in command of the British fleet at this action, was sixty-nine years old at the time. The battle lasted several days and Howe, besides ordering fleet movements, was actually involved, on his flagship, in the action. It was also interesting to find out that, despite being soundly thrashed, the French considered this encounter with \\"the nation of shopkeepers\\" a victory, because the British were not able to stop French grain ships from getting through safely to port.) Even if you know a lot about these battles, I think you will still find these sections interesting, because a large part of the action is seen from the viewpoint of the \\"Bellerophon,\\" i.e. - what happened to the ship and its crew. The ship seemed to live a charmed life: despite being dismasted and severely battered, she managed never to run aground or to be boarded as a prize. (One time she barely escaped being blown to kingdom come, when a fire was put out just before finding its way to the gunpowder.) One of the most enjoyable sections of the book detailed the \\"goings-on\\" when Napoleon was aboard. While anchored at Torbay and Plymouth Sound, the ship and its famous guest became quite a tourist attraction. On one day \\"it was estimated that the ship was surrounded by ten thousand people in yachts, fishing boats, and rowing boats.\\" The crew held up chalkboards with messages scrawled on them (such as \\"At breakfast\\") to let the public know what Napoleon was up to any particular moment. It was amusing to read that when Napoleon was given a tour of Captain Maitland's cabin, he zeroed in on a portrait of Maitland's wife. Napoleon commented that she was \\"very young and very pretty,\\" and he was greatly disappointed that, due to security restrictions, she was not allowed on board for a visit. Bonaparte had just lost an empire, but he could still appreciate a beautiful woman! Another big plus for this book is the quantity and quality of the black-and-white anc color reproductions. (Works of top-flight painters of maritime scenes, such as Nicholas Pocock and J.M.W. Turner, help bring the battle scenes to life.) This was a very clever idea for a book, and whether you are primarily interested in ships, or naval battles, or Napoleon, I think you will find much here to enjoy.	2003-10-02
US	51300959	R2D56ZYLVGUUE0	0385504004	57025522	Ripples of Battle: How Wars of the Past Still Determine How We Fight, How We Live, and How We Think	Books	5	62	67	N	Y	Handsomely Done	If you enjoyed &quot;Carnage And Culture,&quot; I am sure you will also like &quot;Ripples Of Battle.&quot; Mr. Hanson is an academic who knows how to write clearly, and in a style which can best be described as conversational: you feel as though you are in his classroom (a small classroom, not a lecture hall) and he's just chatting with you. Whether he's writing about the movements of hoplites and cavalry at the Battle of Delium, the plays of Euripides, Socratic philosophy, Japanese kamikaze pilots, or the miraculous feats of Nathan Bedford Forrest at the Battle of Shiloh, it is all explained so that the layperson can understand it (without being &quot;dumbed down&quot;) and it is all fascinating. Mr. Hanson is a writer who has more ideas in one chapter than most authors have in an entire book. If you think I'm just blowing smoke, consider what's under discussion in the chapter on the Battle of Delium, which took place in Greece in 424 B.C. : there is the background to the battle (why it was fought); the strategy and tactics of the battle itself; Greek religious beliefs ( the victorious Boeotians wouldn't let the Athenians gather up their dead from the battlefield, so they could be buried quickly - before the bodies started to decay. This was to retaliate for the fact that the Athenians, after the battle, occupied a Boeotian temple); how the battle changed the way future battles were fought (the Boeotians introduced the concept of holding back a &quot;strategic reserve,&quot; to be brought into the battle at the proper moment. They also coordinated cavalry with infantry and arranged their hoplites in deepened columns); the importance to the history of Western philosophy that Socrates (the Greeks saw no contradiction in combining a life of martial action with a life of contemplation) survived the battle. These are just a few of the things that are discussed - so you can see that the book is not just about the nuts-and-bolts of the battles. Personally, I found this one chapter &quot;worth the price of admission.&quot; However, the other chapters are equally good. For example, we learn how the Battle of Shiloh rehabilitated the career of General Sherman (who, only a few months before, had been referred to as &quot;crazy&quot;); forged the friendship/partnership between Sherman and Grant; made a popular hero of Confederate officer Nathan Bedford Forrest (who single-handedly rode into a brigade of Sherman's troops, took a point-blank bullet in the back, near his spine, yet managed to lift a Union soldier off the ground and plop him behind him on his horse to use as a &quot;human shield&quot; while Forrest galloped back to the Confederate position. Forrest was back in action two months later. It is also noteworthy that after the war, for a short while, Forrest was the head of the newly formed Ku Klux Klan); and, in a bizarre twist of history, resulted in the writing of the novel &quot;Ben-Hur&quot; (which, by 1936, had earned the greatest amount of money of any novel in American history) - but, I don't want to give THAT story away! &quot;Ripples Of Battle&quot; contains so many different threads and ideas that there really is something here for everyone - even the serious student of military history, who may know these battles inside-out, will find much to think about. Is this book perfect? Of course not. Mr. Hanson has lots of opinions, and some of them (depending upon which side of the fence you are standing on) are bound to rub you the wrong way. For example, in the chapter on Shiloh, the author writes that Sherman was so appalled by the carnage that he thought there must have been a better way of fighting the war - namely, carry it to the civilians - which led to the March To The Sea. Fair enough, so far. But I didn't agree with Mr. Hanson's assertion that Sherman's March caused &quot;ripples&quot; which affected the way later wars were fought. Frankly, I don't see the evidence, and the author is very lax in supplying any. I also didn't agree (and many Southerners won't, either) with Mr. Hanson's claim that Sherman left the &quot;little man&quot; alone - that on his March through Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina his troops specifically targeted only the homes and farms of the rich people who supported secession. If Mr. Hanson really holds this view, I find it amazing. He is too good a military historian to be unaware of what happens when troops (especially unopposed troops) are unleashed on the countryside and are told to &quot;live off the land.&quot; The idea of Sherman's March was to destroy the Southern infrastructure and to break the morale of the general population - period. Still, this book is full of so many good things that even the occasional slip-up cannot cause me to lower my opinion of the whole. This is a book that is well-worth reading.	2003-09-26
US	51300959	R2GIOOXSHLVL7Q	1401351867	902031104	Fortress Malta:  An Island Under Siege, 1940 - 43	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Strategic Stepping-Stone	This is the best military history book to be published since (and I'd rank it right up there with) last year's &quot;An Army At Dawn&quot; by Rick Atkinson. High praise, indeed, since that book won a Pulitzer Prize. If you've read the Atkinson book, you'll find that &quot;Fortress Malta&quot; complements it nicely, since both books end with the Allies poised for the invasion of Sicily. Mr. Holland, to judge by his photo on the dustjacket, looks to be still in his twenties. (This is his first book.) If he is indeed that young, that makes this book even more of an accomplishment. The quality of the writing and the way the book is structured demonstrate a great deal of skill and maturity. This is because the author has a lot of balls to juggle: he has to tell us about the aerial war; the surface naval battles; the submarine war; strategy and tactics, etc. This part of the story is well-told: there are many exciting sequences dealing with dogfights and convoys being stalked by submarines. But what elevates the book to the superior level is Mr. Holland's ability to bring home to us the human element. We get to know a lot of the pilots and submariners as real people - quirks and all. (Two people who leap out from the pages are Adrian Warburton and George &quot;Screwball&quot; Beurling. Warburton, despite being a reconnaissance pilot, managed the rare feat of becoming an &quot;ace&quot; - which means he shot down at least 5 planes. He was unorthodox. He once flew over Sicily to take some photographs, then made an unauthorized side trip to Greece to pick up some booze for the boys back at the base. He got away with such behavior because he always got his photographs - no matter what. Beurling was the highest scoring Allied ace of the war, with over 30 confirmed kills, with an incredible 4 in one day.) The same is true regarding the civilian population. Everyone was under incredible stress - day after day, month after month, and year after year. For much of the time the island was under almost constant attack. There were severe housing and food shortages. Some people were forced to live in underground &quot;cubicles.&quot; Inadequate nutrition led to sickness and disease. On the military side, there weren't enough planes to defend the island. Often, 3-4 Hurricanes or Spitfires would go up to do battle with 50 or more enemy aircraft. As the Axis powers were in control of the areas both north and south of Malta, getting convoys through with essential supplies (planes, fuel, spare parts, food, etc.) was extremely difficult. Plus, there was the added psychological stress of being &quot;trapped&quot; on a small island. The entire island was awarded the George Cross, the highest civilian award for valour. The action was unprecedented. It was also well deserved. After reading about these people for allmost 400 pages I felt that I knew them. As I approached the end of the book I hoped Mr. Holland would tell us what happened to them after the siege of Malta was over. The author, once again, did not disappoint. There is a postscript which follows the lives of all the major characters. As you might expect, this section is filled with both joy and sorrow. Some of the people led short and tragic lives, some long and happy. A surprising number are still alive today. (One is the well-known British actor Frederick Treves, known to this anglophile through his performances in the David Suchet &quot;Poirot&quot; and Joan Hickson &quot;Miss Marple&quot; stories.) The book has 7 pages of maps, placed in the beginning, which allow you to get your geographic bearings and follow the action. There are also over 80 wonderful black-and-white photographs. The dustjacket mentions that the author is working on 2 more books regarding the war in the Mediterranean. If &quot;Fortress Malta&quot; is anything to go by, we are in for some more great reading.	2003-09-24
US	51300959	R2YBCLM8PCOQAO	0060932260	957795020	The Lighthouse Stevensons	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	The Other Scottish Enlightenment.....	Bella Bathurst is a bit of a conjurer. In just over 260 pages, she has managed to provide a lot of fascinating, exciting and even quirky information concerning the construction of the Scottish lighthouses, plus well-crafted biographical portraits of members of four generations of the Stevenson family. She gets the reader hooked immediately, interestingly enough, by writing about someone who was not even a member of the Stevenson clan - Captain George Manby. Manby, around 1805, came up with a method of keeping rowboats afloat in heavy seas, to be used in conjunction with a &quot;rescue line&quot; tossed out to foundering ships which were close to shore. In conjunction, these would be used to rescue seamen before their ships sank and they drowned. This didn't appeal to the people called &quot;wreckers,&quot; who depended upon booty from the sunken ships for their livelihood. In their view, it was better to let crew members drown - after all, they might put up a fuss concerning the theft of the ships' cargo. When, in 1807, the naive Manby let some wreckers take him out on a boat so he could test the seaworthiness of his new and buoyant rowboats, the wreckers intentionally capsized the boat - hoping to drown Manby, who couldn't swim. (Fortunately for Manby, he managed not to drown.) This anecdote ties into the rest of the book, because when the Stevenson family started building lighthouses, the wreckers weren't too thrilled with that development either. So, a lot of the people in the seaside communities didn't exactly put out the welcome mat. Not only that, but the Stevensons' had to put up with &quot;press gangs&quot; trying to shanghai workers so they could man merchant and military ships. Part of this book reads like an adventure tale - with the workers battling the mighty forces of mother nature on remote spits of land that were sometimes 10-15 miles off of the Scottish coast. The workers, at some locations, would have to be transported daily from the mainland - fighting against seasickness and terrific winds and rain. They would sometimes be marooned on the desolate pieces of rock where the lighthouses were being constructed, as savage storms would blow for days or even weeks on end. There is even an Egyptian flavor to the construction - as huge blocks of carefully carved and smoothed stone are transported and painstakingly put together. Each block had its own unique place in the puzzle, and the margins for error were slight- 1/8 of an inch per stone in some cases. This was a case of bullwork being combined with fine craftmanship - all being done under atrocious climatic conditions. It is a tribute to Ms. Bathurst's writing and organizational skills that, even with all of this activity swirling through the pages, we don't lose sight of the Stevensons. We see the patriarch, Robert Stevenson, with his formidable work ethic, energy, and devotion to public duty. Even in his late seventies he was still going, by ship, all along the Scottish coast, on long inspection tours of &quot;his&quot; lighthouses. Religion is also a part of this story - in particular, the Scottish belief in a stern, no-nonsense God: On one project Alan Stevenson, one of Robert's sons, made his men work on the Sabbath days. Later on in life Alan came down with a neurological disorder (which the author speculates was muscular dystrophy). Alan was convinced that God was punishing him for his sins. He tried to atone through prayer and through whatever work he was still able to do. When the disease went into remission, Alan thought he was finally being forgiven. When he got worse, he thought he wasn't doing enough to earn God's forgiveness. This makes heartbreaking reading. The writer, Robert Louis Stevenson (known as Louis), also enters into the story, as his father, Tom, wanted him to continue in the family tradition. Louis made some youthful efforts to accomodate his father but, although engineering and lighthouses were in the blood, this life wasn't for him.We'll never know if this was engineering's loss, but it was certainly literature's gain. When they weren't dealing with 100 mile-per-hour winds and, sometimes, 200 foot waves, the Stevensons also found time to build roads, bridges, harbors, breakwaters, etc. In the preface, Ms. Bathurst says that she didn't attempt to write a definitive biography of the Lighthouse Stevensons, but she hoped the book &quot;will be seen as a kind of taster for the subject, and that anyone wanting to search further will be able to do so.&quot; This reader, for one, found this remarkable book to be very tasty indeed.	2003-09-23
US	51300959	R2ZGJ0CB7V3CBQ	0393020010	811789480	Einstein's Clocks, Poincare's Maps: Empires of Time	Books	4	61	66	N	Y	Clockwatchers	In this book, Peter Galison attempts to show that scientists and mathematicians, no matter how brilliant, do not work in a vacuum. The focus is more on Henri Poincare than Albert Einstein, although Einstein is certainly not slighted. It's just that Mr. Galison feels, at least as far as the general public is concerned, Poincare has been &quot;slighted,&quot;....and this book, in part, is an attempt to redress the situation. It is easy to think of mathematicians and physicists as being disconnected from the &quot;real world.&quot; Mr. Galison wants to show us, however, that they are influenced heavily by their colleagues in the scientific community and, more generally, by the culture they are part of. Thus, Poincare (president of the French Bureau of Longitude) was a creature of his times: he was &quot;formed&quot; by his education at the Ecole Polytechnique, with its emphasis on combining theory with practice. He was a man who &quot;networked,&quot; and constantly exchanged ideas with fellow mathematicians and scientists. As a Frenchman, he shared in the humiliation of the French defeat at the hands of the Prussians in the war of 1870. Thus, it was important for France to lead the way in the longitudinal mapping of the planet (which required the synchronization of clocks across great distances). This longitudinal mapping was important for war and peace (for moving armies and navies...and oceangoing commerce). Synchronized clocks, even apart from their relationship to longitude, were also important for other reasons- such as for regulating railroad schedules. Mr. Galison's point: time was in the air and, since the outlook was global, there was an understanding that time was relative rather than absolute. Mr. Galison is not trying to say that Poincare &quot;invented&quot; the Theory of Special Relativity. What he is trying to say is that the obsession with time was &quot;in the ether.&quot; Einstein, in Switzerland, was not immune to these influences. Which brings us to, for me, anyway, the most interesting part of the book - the relationship between Einstein's work at the Bern patent office (both the specifics and the methodology). People were constantly trying to come up with better ways of synchronizing clocks, and Einstein saw many of these patent applications. Also, it was his job to evaluate patent applications. The patent application (amongst other things) has to show that you've come up with something original, and it also has to show clearly how the invention will work. Mr. Galison makes a convincing argument that Einstein's job, at the very least, kept him thinking about the synchronization (and, hence, the relativity) of time. Even more interesting, in his 1905 paper on Special Relativity, Einstein did not use footnotes or make references to other scientists. Mr. Galison speculates: was this arrogance on Einstein's part, or was he influenced by his work at the patent office? In other words, it wouldn't help your case if, in a patent application, you showed how your idea was based on other ideas. You needed to show you had come up with something new. Regarding patents and practicality, Einstein, in his 1905 paper, included &quot;thought experiments&quot; to show how his theory should function in the real world. Let me stress that Mr. Galison is not trying to downplay Einstein's brilliance. He is trying to show that everyone is affected by what is going on around them - no exceptions granted. Mr. Galison is also keen to show us the differences in the working methods of the two men. Einstein was a bit of a rebel - he enjoyed overturning the apple cart. Hence he was not reluctant to discard theories he had no use for. Poincare believed more in building on what came before him, and in reaching consensus. According to Mr. Galison, this makes Poincare appear conservative- but this isn't so. He was a brilliant man, but just not as radical as Einstein. To paraphrase an analogy the author uses, Pablo Picasso may not have been Jackson Pollock, but this didn't make Picasso conservative. One caveat concerning the book: it is certainly not for the beginner. Mr. Galison's explanations and diagrams are clear and concise. However, since I don't have much of a background in math, I found the sections on Poincare to be tough-sledding. I have previously done some reading on relativity, so I found the sections on Einstein to be a bit easier to get through. So, just be aware that the author is expecting that you have some familiarity with what he is talking about. That caveat aside, I wholeheartedly recommend this book.	2003-09-22
US	51300959	RIJU2BG9YAFB9	0767906926	782431251	Orphans Preferred: The Twisted Truth and Lasting Legend of the Pony Express	Books	4	13	18	N	Y	Horses On The Fly	This book has it all: horses, settlers, miners, indians, Mark Twain, Buffalo Bill, Wild Bill, Annie Oakley, Queen Victoria, Sir Richard Francis Burton, modest men, and immodest men telling tall-tales. What more could you ask for? The Pony Express was only in business for 18 months, from April 1860 until October 1861. I was astounded by that fact, considering the place that the institution holds in the American imagination. It was a losing proposition, financially, from the get-go, and it was quickly done in by the transcontinental telegraph and railroad. The author, Christopher Corbett, has a lot of fun trying to separate the facts from the myth. Part of the enjoyment in reading this book is provided by the over-the-top language used by newspapers of the time. For example, here is the Sacramento Daily Bee regarding the first rider out of Sacramento, William Hamilton: &quot;...quite a crowd was in attendance who cheered lustily as Hamilton and his mettled steed dashed off at a rattling pace.&quot; It's also fun to read about Mark Twain's experiences in &quot;Roughing It.&quot; Twain did not mind the difficulties of overland stage travel, but he was disgusted by the food served to travelers (including the Pony Express riders): &quot;The station keeper unended a disk of last week's bread...and carved some slabs from it which were as good as Nicholson pavement...&quot; Why is Twain included in the book? Because he actually saw Pony Express riders, and wrote accurately concerning what they did and how they did it. Twain sometimes exaggerated in the interest of literary liberality, but not in this case. The problem is, not everyone stuck to the facts. Buffalo Bill Cody, for example, although a noted indian fighter and killer of buffalo, felt the need to add to his resume by claiming he rode for the Pony Express. As a teenager, he did work as a messenger for the men who started the Pony Express, but historical evidence strongly suggests he never was an Express rider. Still, bringing Buffalo Bill into the story enables Mr. Corbett to tell us about Buffalo Bill's Wild West show, which ran for about 30 years and was extremely popular. Bill took his show to England in 1887. The Prince of Wales, Albert Edward, saw the show, and was so enthusiastic that he managed to convince his mother, Queen Victoria, to make one of her rare public appearances by coming out to Earl's Court to see the show. (Victoria had been in virtual seclusion since the death of her husband Prince Albert in 1861.) Oh, and Victoria brought along a few friends: the king of Denmark, the king and queen of Belgium, the king of Saxony, the king of Greece, and various other princes and dukes. Victoria loved the show, which featured a stagecoach holdup, a Pony Express rider, and the 26 year old sharpshooter Annie Oakley. Buffalo Bill's press agent, Arizona John Burke, (&quot;a master of the adjective to the exclusion of other parts of speech&quot;) obviously loved the publicity. Many people tried to hitch themselves to the Pony Express star, by claiming to have been riders- including one fellow who was born in 1854, which would have made him 6-7 at the time in question! The most famous so-called &quot;rider&quot; was Broncho (his spelling) Charlie Miller, who was born in 1850 and died in 1955. He was 11 at the time he supposedly rode for the Pony Express, so it's a pretty safe bet that he wasn't a rider, though he may have seen a few. (He also claimed to have been born in the back of a Conestoga wagon out in California. Alas, his real name was Julius Mortimer Miller and he was born in New York City. Oh well.) At the core of this book, though, are the actual riders and the horses. The Pony Express hired the best riders around and they bought the fastest horses available. The real riders were usually quite modest. For example, Richard Cleve once told a historian that &quot;not much interesting ever happened.&quot; He then told of one trip where he went 160 miles in a blizzard, under whiteout conditions, with a temperature of 40 below zero. &quot;Cleve apologized for not having a more interesting story.&quot; As Mr. Corbett states, the riders may not have been orphans, but they were almost always young, wiry, expert riders...who were willing to risk death daily.	2003-09-17
US	51300959	R31NE6KTDL096E	0767909054	655574149	Ship Ablaze: The Tragedy of the Steamboat General Slocum	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Death And Greed Count The Profits......	Too many \\"disaster\\" books leave you with little or no feeling for the actual victims, survivors, and relatives. That is certainly not the case with \\"Ship Ablaze.\\" The book is, at times, almost unbearable in its unrelenting intensity. Mr. O'Donnell sets the scene well: a church group, in a tight-knit Lower East Side German community, preparing for and embarking upon a weekday steamboat excursion/picnic. We get to know the pastor, and we get to know some of the families. As the ship leaves the dock, we know what's going to happen...but that doesn't matter. We are horrified as the fire starts and spreads, and over 1,000 people (mostly women and children, with more than one member from many families) die from burning or drowning. We are outraged by the negligence of the shipowner (too cheap to buy new lifejackets and fire hoses, to replace the old equipment which was, literally, disintegrating), and the captain (too \\"proud\\" to instruct his crew in fire prevention or to hold fire drills), and the safety inspectors (who \\"passed\\" equipment they knew to be not in proper working order- and who most likely pocketed some payoffs). Mr. O'Donnell leaves no area unexplored, although you might sometimes wish he had: he goes into detail concerning the different ways a person can drown- either by \\"inhaling\\" water or by lack of oxygen; he talks about people drowning in 5 feet of water, because they were so frightened they didn't realize they could just stand up; he talks of black hearses being used for adults and white ones being used for children; he talks of \\"survivor guilt\\" and suicides and undertakers taking advantage of bereaved people by engaging in high-pressure sales tactics and by charging double the normal price for burials. But he also talks about brave people risking their lives to save others, and of people who donated generously to relief funds. The entire spectrum of human behavior is on display. On a lighter note, Mr. O'Donnell's curiosity seems to know no bounds: heinforms us that people flocked to Coney Island to see disaster spectacles such as \\"The Fall of Pompeii\\" and \\"The Fire and Flames Show.\\" (He also explains that prior to being \\"cleaned up\\" and made into an amusement area, Coney Island was known for prostitution and gambling.); we also learn that the \\"General Slocum\\" tragedy was mentioned in James Joyce's \\"Ulysses\\" and that the tragedy was also used as the basis of a 1934 movie called \\"Manhattan Melodrama,\\" starring William Powell and Clark Gable. It was also the movie John Dillinger saw on the day he emerged from a movie theater and was gunned down by FBI agents. But for every funny or interesting fact, there is something like this: there was a 7 year old girl named Margaret Heins, who had been on the steamboat but whose body had not been recovered. The day after the tragedy, her body was found floating in the East River- one block from her family's home. She had drifted 8 miles from where the \\"General Slocum\\" had run aground. Even though I'm a New York City native, I'd never heard of the \\"Slocum\\" tragedy. Now, because of Mr. O'Donnell, I'm not sure I'll ever be able to forget it.	2003-09-11
US	51300959	R30W3Q4AHHB2XU	0786712562	88286290	The White Headhunter: The Story of a 19th-Century Sailor Who Survived a South Seas Heart of Darkness	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Talking Heads	OK...I admit it. The main reason I bought this book was that I was &quot;hooked&quot; by the gruesome aspects. After all, who can resist a classic tale of shipwreck, with the added frisson of headhunting and cannibalism? And while Mr. Randell (who, by the way, looks like a combination of Sting and Malcolm McDowell...and poses in the author photo with a skull, not his own, in hand) certainly delivers in the goosebumps department (describing in loving detail how humans, referred to as &quot;long pig&quot; by the cannibals, were wrapped in banana leaves and slow-roasted), he turns out to have bigger fish-to-fry. This is a very thoughtful book, which works on several levels. The &quot;adventure tale&quot; aspect is significant, but Mr. Randell also talks about the religious beliefs of the Solomon Islanders, the clash of cultures, the destruction of the islanders' way of life, etc. The author has spent much time in the Solomon Islands. It is obvious that he has studied, and respects, the native culture. The book can be enjoyed by those with an interest in anthropology, sociology, and psychology...in addition to those who are looking for a &quot;ripping-yarn.&quot; While the focus of the book is Jack Renton- the &quot;white headhunter&quot; of the title, who was forced into a situation not of his own making, and did what he had to in order to survive- Mr. Randell also makes sure we see things from the islanders' point of view. Renton is allowed to live not out of any altruistic feeling- it turns out that, previously, another white man named Doorey had been marooned on the same island and his extensive knowledge of carpentry had made him indispensable. The islanders' were also hoping for big things from Renton, and he delivered- with his abilities as a military strategist and warrior. However, what starts out as realpolitik turns into affection, as the tribal chief Kabou develops fatherly feelings for the young Renton (who was still a teenager when he was washed ashore). The author also makes it clear why the islanders were so hostile towards white men: these were people who sometimes kidnapped islanders for use as cheap labor back in Queensland. (Even worse from the perspective of the islanders: the outsiders appeared to be people who constantly wandered the seas in their large and strange ships. What were they doing for food? The islanders assumed, naturally enough, that those who were being kidnapped were being eaten.) These were also men who brought death through disease- the islanders had no immunity to &quot;western germs.&quot; And, of course, the white visitors had nothing but contempt for what they didn't understand- the &quot;primitive&quot; lifestyle and religious beliefs. The islanders didn't appreciate the attempts of the Christian missionaries to &quot;improve&quot; them by asking them to jettison everything they held dear. Mr. Randell is especially good at getting you &quot;inside the heads&quot; of the islanders. While I don't recommend the headhunting/cannibal lifestyle, at least I now understand the reasons these practices were engaged in. By possessing an enemy's head and consuming his flesh, you were able to &quot;tap into&quot; both his spiritual and physical powers. As an example of the latter, Mr. Randell points out that if an enemy warrior was fast on his feet, and you ate his legs, you were looking to improve your own running ability. It obviously makes no sense when seen by an outside observer but, as with any religious belief, there is internal logic. On all levels, (unless you are looking for recipes) Mr. Randell has written an excellent book.	2003-09-10
US	51300959	R2FYUJZLZ61OKU	1585671517	18560615	Maritime Supremacy and the Opening of the Western Mind: Naval Campaigns that Shaped the Modern World	Books	2	12	16	N	Y	Unsuccessful Hybrid	\\"Maritime Supremacy And The Opening Of The Western Mind\\" is a book that fails, although it fails for a \\"noble\\" reason: the author is overly ambitious. Mr. Padfield didn't want to write just a political/social history of the maritime powers and he didn't want to write just a naval history, either. He wanted to combine the two types of history. He also wanted to compare and contrast the maritime powers and the continental powers. Although there is certainly nothing wrong with this idea, the execution, in this case, is poor. Rather than weaving all the material together, the author alternates chapters on naval campaigns with chapters on political/social developments in Spain, France, Britain, the Netherlands, and Colonial America. This \\"alternating current\\" constantly disrupts the flow of the book: just as you have settled down to concentrate on a sea battle, the author switches to a chapter on political infighting or government financing. The problem also develops the other way around: just when you've gotten your mind set on concentrating on Lord North or William Pitt or tax-farming in pre-Revolutionary France, it's time to read about broadsides and officers pacing the decks of ships, shoe buckle deep in blood. As a result, the reader feels disconcerted: you are never comfortable and you can never get \\"caught-up\\" in the narrative. Another problem with the book is that, considering what the author wants to accomplish, it is too short. The author tries to cover approximately ten naval campaigns, while also trying to explain political/economic/social developments in five different geographical areas, covering a span of 200 years. This is just too much material to cover in less than 300 pages. The specialist reader is likely to come away feeling he or she hasn't learned anything new- as everything is presented in such broad strokes. The general reader will likely be confused by the pace and the amount of information. In trying to do too much, the book accomplishes too little. Perhaps the best that can be said of this book is that, for the non-specialist reader, it may open your eyes to a particular naval campaign or to political/economic/social developments in a particular country. For example, the chapter on the Spanish Armada might lead you to read a more comprehensive book on the topic, such as David Howarth's \\"The Voyage Of The Armada\\" or the chapter on the Dutch Golden Age could lead you to Simon Schama's wonderful \\"The Embarrassment Of Riches\\". However, I don't think that's a good enough reason to read this book, which is why I have given it only two stars.	2003-09-08
US	51300959	R15LKSMIG3Y60B	0865475784	610314536	The Potato: How the Humble Spud Rescued the Western World	Books	4	26	29	N	N	You Say Po-tay-to, And I Say Po-tah-to.............	Don't let the corny (ouch!) title put you off: this is a serious look at the historical place of the potato in England, Ireland, France and the United States. And if you are concerned that 271 pages on the &quot;humble spud&quot; might put you into a stupor, you might breathe easier when you know that Mr. Zuckerman uses the potato as a starting point to examine lots of other stuff: class distinctions; agricultural landlords and tenant farmers; urbanization; women and domestic drudgery; the role of bread (ouch again!) vs. the role of the potato, etc. Mr. Zuckerman even finds the time, near the end of the book, to incorporate some philosophical musings on the positive and negative aspects of &quot;fast-food&quot; and its relationship to our &quot;hurry-up society.&quot; To me, one of the best things about the book was the multi-cultural approach: it was interesting to see how much more quickly the potato caught-on in the United States than it did in France, England and Ireland (where the centuries-old custom of strict reliance on bread had to be overcome). Another interesting thing to read about was the amazement of foreign visitors concerning the variety of the American diet. We tend to forget that in Europe, in the period this book primarily deals with (1700-1900), the average person lived on bread, porridge, and soup. (One of the many interesting facts presented in this book is that up until almost 1900 most French peasants had a morning bowl of soup rather than a cup of coffee.) You were indeed fortunate if you had meat, milk, butter, eggs, coffee, etc. Even if a peasant farmer owned a cow, pig, or chicken, quite often the food products the animals supplied had to be sold, to provide some much-needed cash. The book provides a very nice combination of scholarly data(economic and sociological information) and anecdotal material. To be honest, the book was a &quot;heavier&quot; read than I anticipated, but the interesting &quot;factoids&quot; helped to lighten and liven things up. Some examples: soup was so prevalent in 19th century France that in one district it is documented that some people had wooden tables with rounded depressions carved into them. As Mr. Zuckerman writes, this &quot;removed the need for plates and [also] any doubt about the menu.&quot;; soup was also used as a &quot;bread-softener.&quot; Due to poor quality grain and inefficient ovens, the crust of bread was often as hard as a rock. Some people couldn't cut the bread with a knife- they had to use a saw; finally, in 19th century London a common sight was the &quot;baked 'tato man,&quot; who sold his product from a cart on the sidewalk- similar to today's hot dog, pretzel, and chestnut vendors. But the interesting thing about the &quot;baked 'tato man&quot; was that, in the cold weather, he would suggest to the gentleman-half of a passing couple that he buy a baked potato to keep his sweetheart warm. The author writes, &quot;This advice was often taken, and the potato placed inside her muff.&quot; Food for warmth, and this fine book provides much food for thought, as well.	2003-09-04
US	51300959	R3VNSTTCYRNQSQ	0306812754	125321128	Signor Marconi's Magic Box: The Most Remarkable Invention Of The 19th Century & The Amateur Inventor Whose Genius Sparked A Revolution	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Wired	Thomas Edison, who was a man who was not easily impressed, once quipped about Guglielmo Marconi that he \\"delivered more than he promised.\\" This statement demonstrates two of Marconi's most significant traits: he was modest and extremely hard working. Marconi was the first to admit that his work was based on both the theories and the inventions of others. He also acknowledged that he didn't understand the reason his own inventions worked. He believed, contrary to many of his contemporaries, that \\"radio\\" waves could travel great distances. Many other people thought the waves could not be transmitted to a receiver that was beyond the horizon line...that at longer distances the waves would travel off into outer space. Based on this belief, with no theoretical underpinning, Marconi kept things simple: he built taller transmitters and he kept making them more powerful. His goal was to transmit electrical signals in Morse Code that could be received across the Atlantic Ocean. He eventually succeeded in this, and gained worldwide fame and popularity when wireless telegraphy, after being used by ships in distress at sea, resulted in the saving of many lives. Marconi was also an astute businessman, rather than a starry eyed inventor.(He amassed a very healthy fortune, perhaps equal to $200-$250 million today.) He was an early master of public relations- for example, using wireless to report on important yacht races. Mr. Weightman doesn't ignore the less savory aspects of the inventor: Marconi's womanizing and obsession with work resulted in the termination of his first marriage. As previously mentioned, Marconi was very weak on theory. He also failed to see the commercial possibilities of radio. That was left to others, such as Lee de Forest, to develop. While Mr. Weightman is a little skimpy on biographical depth (I never quite felt I understood what made Marconi tick), he is great on interesting details...for example, he explains how wireless was used to help capture the infamous murderer Dr. Crippen, and he also tells how Orthodox Russian priests once almost destroyed Marconi equipment because they wanted to anoint it with holy water! The book is meant for the lay reader, and the scientific detail is kept to a minimum. Very enjoyable.	2003-08-31
US	51300959	R1YRUZ1TY7DQ4T	0670032301	880682368	Fighter Boys: The Battle of Britain, 1940	Books	5	24	26	N	N	From Sopwiths To Spitfires	My prediction is that this book will be nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. If I'm wrong....well, I shouldn't be. That's how good it is. Patrick Bishop has written a thorough, thoughtful and exciting book. He starts off with a quick military history of the aeroplane, covering WWI and including the years between WWI and WWII. He compares developments in Germany and Britain, and charts the organizational evolution of the RAF. We learn about the planes and the people, as well as the processes involved in recruiting and training pilots. Mr. Bishop zeroes in on several pilots, quoting from their letters to family and sweethearts, as well as from memoirs. This provides the human connection, so that we are anxious each time the author describes a dogfight over France, the Channel or England. We are hoping the Hurricanes and Spitfires will all land safely......even though we know they won't. Each time a pilot is killed, we feel it in the pit of the stomach. I've never flown a plane, but I've never been taken closer to the experience than I have in this book. Mr. Bishop magically transports us to the world inhabited by fighter pilots. We learn how the controls feel, what it's like to be in combat (constantly having to move your head around to make sure there are no enemy planes coming at you from any direction...while also going 350 miles an hour and trying to shoot down another plane going the same speed which is taking evasive action), the boredom while waiting to go on a mission....and the fear of being burned, crippled or killed. These men constantly put up a front by joking and downplaying their achievements. But Mr. Bishop never lets us forget their bravery. During the height of the Battle of Britain these men were going up on missions 3 and 4 times a day. They saw fellow pilots go missing, or being wounded or killed, every day. They visited friends in the hospital who were burned so badly that they needed reconstructive surgery. When flying over the Channel they worried about being shot down and, if they survived that experience, dying from hypothermia or by drowning. Regarding the enemy, it was sometimes easy to forget that the German fighters and bombers contained people. With the speed and confusion of combat it seemed normal to think you were fighting a machine rather than a man. Occasionally, the reality was brought home to you- such as when you saw an enemy pilot stuck in his cockpit, frantically attempting to bail out as his damaged plane nosedived into a sickening spin. All pilots loved to fly, but few enjoyed killing. You went up every day and did what you had to do. It helped that you were flying over the land that you loved, and that you knew that the fellow in the Heinkel was trying to drop bombs on that land, and on people that you knew.....and the fellow in the Messerschmitt was trying to make sure that the Heinkel got through to its target. Mr. Bishop never lets us forget how young most of the pilots were...usually, they were in their early 20's. Frankly, at the speeds these planes were going, most men over 30 didn't have the reflexes necessary to avoid being shot down. Because of their youth, most of the men who perished never had the opportunity to fall in love, let alone marry and have a family. They willingly sacrificed themselves so that Britain would have a future as a free country. Winston Churchill was right, and we owe a great deal to Patrick Bishop for not letting us forget this pivotal moment in history.	2003-08-27
US	51300959	R326UOGTEMY9YQ	1891620703	27114143	Bolt Of Fate: Benjamin Franklin And His Electric Kite Hoax	Books	3	9	9	N	N	More Benjamin?	In the last couple of years we've had major biographies of Benjamin Franklin by H.W. Brands, Walter Isaacson, and Edmund Morgan. Now we have Tom Tucker's take on Franklin the \\"electrical scientist.\\" (Gosh, we haven't even gotten to the tricentennial of Franklin's birth, which will be in 2006. One wonders what's in the publishing pipeline!) This book has quite a few pros and cons. Here are the pros: Because of the 3 recent general biographies, we probably didn't need another one. Mr. Tucker has done us a service by electing to concentrate on Franklin the scientist. And although Mr. Tucker's background is in writing about science, he has an engaging \\"popular\\" style. There's nothing dry about this book. Another plus is that Mr. Tucker goes to great pains to show us how myth becomes enshrined as reality. He makes a pretty good case that Franklin never actually flew his \\"electric kite.\\" Looking carefully at the primary sources, we see that Franklin gave instructions on how to construct such a kite, but never actually claimed to have conducted the \\"kite in a thunderstorm\\" experiment himself. He was also uncharacteristically evasive when questioned about details of the experiment. Mr. Tucker also points out that Franklin was not averse to a bit of self-promotion. If people wanted to assume that he had flown a kite in a thunderstorm....well, he wasn't going to disabuse them of the notion. Likewise, although Franklin came up with the idea and \\"blueprint\\" for the lightning rod, he apparently tooted his own horn by lying to his European \\"colleagues\\" when he claimed that lightning rods were being attached to public buildings in Philadelphia earlier than the historical evidence shows they were. Franklin was presumably miffed that the Royal Society in London had been virtually ignoring the papers he had written on electricity up to this point, and was trying to gain some respect. (There is also evidence that Royal Society member William Watson was trying to claim some of Franklin's theories and experiments had originated, independently, with himself.) So, those are the pros. What are the cons? Perverse as it may seem, zeroing in on Franklin the scientist is one of them. Frankly, (sorry, I couldn't resist) there isn't a whole lot to zero in on. Taking 237 pages to prove that Franklin didn't fly a kite in a thunderstorm, and that he lied about when the first domestic lightning rod was constructed, can tax your patience. Also, anyone who has read anything previous on Franklin won't be surprised by the author's comments that Franklin was fond of hoaxes, practical jokes, and that he was a lot more sophisticated than his public persona. However, the most grievous \\"negative\\" is that the author tries to assert that Franklin was responsible for our victory in the Revolutionary War. The logic is as follows: Franklin's self-promotion as an \\"electrical scientist\\" resulted in his being immensely popular in France. He parlayed this popularity into gaining a great deal of influence with Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, et al. Bingo....he convinced the French to form an alliance with the upstart Americans, which enabled us to win the war. While it is true that Franklin was popular and had influence, it is a long stretch to say that he was single-handedly responsible for the French coming in on the American side. Other Americans, such as John Adams, played key roles, and the French had excellent reasons of their own to enter the fray. Mr. Tucker may have felt that the basic theme of his book didn't quite pack enough of a wallop, and so he decided to \\"jazz\\" the narrative up with \\"The French Connection.\\" But, he took things a bit too far. In any case, this book is worth reading for its exploration of myth vs. reality and for its elucidation of 18th century professional jealousy and backbiting within the world of the \\"electrical scientists.\\"	2003-08-14
US	51300959	RWY2K11MB7XG8	0743216423	178472357	The Battle for Rome: The Germans, the Allies, the Partisans, and the Pope, September 1943-June 1944	Books	5	16	20	N	Y	Circus Maximus	Don't let the title of this book confuse you. Mr. Katz uses the word \\"battle\\" in its broad sense- this is not a work primarily concerned with the nuts-and-bolts of the Allies attempt to wrestle Rome away from the Germans. There is some military history- the landing at Anzio and the \\"lost opportunity\\" to move quickly up the underdefended route to Rome are neatly summarized. But Mr. Katz is mainly concerned with personalities, diplomacy and morality. He focuses on a few of the partisans, so that we come to know them intimately. We go along on several of their \\"missions\\" and learn about both fear and bravery. One key mission, setting off a bomb on a street known to be part of the daily route followed by some German policemen, results in the deaths of 32 Germans- and results in the infamous reprisal known as the Ardeatine Caves massacre. Hitler was so angered by the attack on the policemen that he wanted 30-50 Italians, per each German killed, to be executed. \\"Cooler heads\\" prevailed and managed to get the ratio down to 10-to-1. Lists were drawn up to figure out who the unlucky 320 people would be- they were largely made up of Italians already in jail awaiting execution or life imprisonment for previous \\"crimes.\\" As you might expect, when these numbers proved insufficient the Germans became less selective- they also wound up miscounting and wound up executing 5 extra people. A thread running throughout the book is the behind-the-scenes maneuvers by the Vatican and Pope Pius XII to remain neutral- so that Rome would not be devastated and also so that Vatican City and its inhabitants would be left alone. Mr. Katz fairly presents the Pope's position. He also clearly condemns the Pope and the Vatican hierarchy for a failure to provide moral leadership. A consistent failure to \\"speak up\\" allowed the Germans to act with impunity- to kill Roman Jews and non-Jews alike. Would \\"speaking up\\" have made any difference? We'll never know the answer to that question- but Mr. Katz is persuasive when he argues that the Pope had an obligation to condemn brutality and inhumanity- and he failed to do so in any forceful manner. Another interesting aspect of the book is the military politics that were played in the final push to Rome. American General Mark Clark was determined that the Americans would liberate Rome. He felt that our troops had earned that right after the casualties suffered at Anzio. Clark felt that British General Alexander was trying to manipulate strategy so that the British could get to Rome first. In the end, Clark prevailed. Mr. Katz manages to juggle all of the storylines without losing sight of the big picture. He also drops a bombshell in the epilogue- but I can't give that away. Suffice it to say that it involves some more unsavory behavior by Vatican officials.	2003-08-11
US	51300959	RMMIL984WI32A	0312291612	76841209	Lord Minimus: The Extraordinary Life of Britain's Smallest Man	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Big Picture	This is an extraordinary book. Ostensibly a biography of Jeffrey Hudson, \\"Britain's Smallest Man,\\" this fascinating work contains hidden depths. Along the way, we get mini-biographies (pun intended) of Charles I, Charles's wife Henrietta Maria, Charles II, and the artist Anthony Van Dyck. We also learn quite a bit about the English Civil War and the Barbary pirates. Even though the book is only 234 pages long, not counting appendices, and even though Mr. Page is providing so much other material, we never feel as though the author is getting sidetracked. \\"Lord Minimus\\" remains the center of attention and, considering the paucity of historical data available to the author, we come to know Jeffrey (his actions, thoughts, and feelings) probably as well as is possible. The book is filled with memorable scenes: Charles I, after asking his 11 year old son why he has been crying, receives the following reply- \\"My grandfather left you four kingdoms, and I am afraid your Majesty will leave me never one.\\"; Charles I asking \\"The English Methuselah,\\" Thomas Parr (purportedly 151 years old at the time) how he got to live so long received the reply that the old fellow was \\"doing penance\\" for having fathered a child out of wedlock when Parr was over 100 years old. (Parr's actual remark was a bit cruder than what I can write in this review. Charles didn't appreciate the wisecrack, by the way, as he was a bit on the puritanical side. Pretty ironic, actually, considering what happened to Charles under the \\"Roundheads.\\") I don't want to give too much away, but suffice it to say that Jeffrey led a full life- which included a duel and a 25 year stint as a slave in North Africa (courtesy of the aforementioned Barbary pirates). Oh, I forgot to mention one other area Mr. Page goes into some detail about: the world of 17th century theater. We go behind the scenes with Ben Jonson and Inigo Jones, and learn about some bizarre \\"tricks of the trade,\\" such as hiring people to shout \\"Fire!\\" so theaudience will be distracted and not notice scene changes being made! As the author writes, \\"It was a great idea with only one tiny flaw: there were panics and the whole theater emptied in the stampede for safety.\\" With a minimum of fuss, we are given a maximum amount of very interesting material. Great book!	2003-07-30
US	51300959	R1ZOFJDDGW1915	0394757637	108668770	Sherman's March: The First Full-Length Narrative of General William T. Sherman's Devastating March through Georgia and the Carolinas	Books	5	24	33	N	Y	"Sherman Is A Hog. Yes, Sir, A Hog."	If you want an \\"up close and personal\\" look at Sherman's march through Georgia and the Carolinas, this is the book for you. Burke Davis has compiled an impressive number and range of first-person accounts.....common soldiers from both sides, officers, civilians, etc. You come away from the book feeling as though you had been present.....and the author manages to provide a very even-handed account. You can see why, in the South, Sherman is reviled to this day. Sherman's men, like human locusts, cut a path of destruction....burning homes and businesses and stealing farm animals and family valuables, such as silverware as well as gold and silver coins. Many people were left hungry and destitute. Things were especially brutal in South Carolina.....intentionally so, as Sherman wanted to punish the state he held primarily responsible for causing the Civil War. The author does show that Sherman apparently suffered from a guilty conscience, at least sometimes, for the whirlwind he unleashed. It is also clear that, sporadically, he tried to restrain his troops and tried to curb some of the excesses....such as looting and rape. Unfortunately, since Sherman made it clear from the outset that the march was meant to terrorize and intimidate the civilian population, and since his efforts to restrain his men were half-hearted, it is difficult to have much sympathy for him. <br />Mr. Davis does a brilliant job of bringing many figures to life. For example, there is the Confederate \\"Fightin' Joe Wheeler\\", who was five feet five and 120 pounds, \\"with a rock in each pocket and his hair combed down wet.\\" There is also 19 year old Marie Boozer, said to be the prettiest girl in South Carolina, who became the mistress of Union general Hugh Kilpatrick...at least temporarily. Once up North, Marie left Kilpatrick for \\"better pickings.\\" She married a wealthy Northerner and later on, after her well-publicized divorce, married a French count. <br />   The book is a bit short on military analysis, so if that is what you are looking for you should stay away. But if you love \\"you are there\\" history, you will love this book. By the way, the title for my review is a quote by Confederate Secretary of War John Breckinridge. During surrender discussions with Sherman, regarding Joe Johnston's troops amongst others, Breckinridge became annoyed when Sherman only offered him and Johnston one drink of whiskey each. After calling Sherman a hog for only giving himself a second drink, Breckinridge commented to Johnston, \\"Ah! No Kentucky gentleman would ever have taken that bottle away. He knew how much we needed it. Needed it badly.\\" Very funny and very human....	2003-07-28
US	51300959	RS9ZZ4TJQEMH0	037541536X	19278544	Horatio's Drive: America's First Road Trip	Books	4	20	23	N	Y	Horatio's Hard Drive	(Sorry about the title. I just bought a PC, so I have computers on the brain!) This book is the latest effort by Dayton Duncan and Ken Burns, a tie-in to their PBS documentary. It takes us back to 1903 and tells the story of the first transcontinental automobile trip, taken by Dr. Horatio Nelson Jackson (don't you just love that name?), his mechanic Sewall Crocker, and a bulldog named Bud. Dr. Jackson was in San Francisco when he decided to attempt the trip- it was really a \\"spur of the moment\\" decision, made after a fellow bet him $50 that he couldn't do it. Unfortunately for Dr. Jackson, he needed to come up with a car: he had purchased one just before he made the bet, but it was in the process of being shipped across the country to the doctor's home in Burlington, Vermont. Sewall Crocker suggested the doctor should buy a \\"Winton,\\"- because it was a heavy, sturdy vehicle. These were the days before dealerships, so Dr. Jackson had to find one of the few people in San Francisco who owned a Winton. The doctor located someone who was willing to sell his $2,500 Winton for $3,000. The upshot was that four days after making the bet, Jackson and Crocker were on the road. (Bud was purchased shortly after the two men started out.) One of the best features of this book is the pictures. It is difficult for most people today to visualize what driving conditions were like in 1903. There were almost no paved roads- so Jackson and Crocker were, for the most part, following old trails. The numerous pictures give you some idea of the rough conditions. The two men frequently had to remove boulders that were blocking  the trails, or get through foot-deep mud, or ford rivers and streams. The two men had to stop frequently to repair blown tires or broken axles. Part of the bet was that the trip would be made within 90 days- at times it looked like \\"a near run thing\\" because of all the stopping to make repairs and to wait for spare parts. Adding to the excitement of the trip was the fact that two other teams, sponsored by Packard and Oldsmobile, were trying to make the same trip- although they both started about a month after Jackson and Crocker. Besides the great photos (taken by Dr. Jackson en route), the two authors have included numerous excerpts from the letters that Jackson wrote to his wife, Bertha, during the trip. The doctor's great affection for Bertha comes through in every letter, as does his can-do, optimistic personality (he was fond of comparing himself to Theodore Roosevelt). Duncan and Burns also include lots of newspaper headlines of the time, which are refreshing for their quaint, old-fashioned language (Jackson and Crocker are referred to as \\"transcontinentalists\\" and \\"automobilists\\") and lack of cynicism. Though brief (because of all the photos, the book can easily be read in one or two sittings), this is a wonderful trip back in time to the days when a person driving a car could still feel like (and indeed, was) a pioneer.	2003-07-19
US	51300959	R3UWE5ZOP878LL	1582342601	389715936	Grandes Horizontales : The Lives and Legends of Four Nineteenth-Century Courtesans	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	Vertical Challengers...or...The Business Of Doing Pleasure	This is the first book written by Virginia Rounding, and it is a very impressive debut. She tells the story of four 19th century Parisian courtesans, but also manages to work in a fair bit of French history, covering roughly 1830-1871. She manages to weave together a seamless blend of the cultural and political, and also the comic and the serious. (As an example of the comic, Ms. Rounding mentions that 19th century prostitutes were fond of wearing very large hats in public. Doctors came up with a special reclining chair, to replace the traditional table, so that when the ladies of easy virtue came in for their regular examinations they would be able to keep their hats on throughout the process.) The author selected the four courtesans that she did so that she could demonstrate all the possibilities of living that life. Some of the women were abused when young, some weren't. Some were native born, some were foreigners. Some, when they lost their looks, lost their money. Others remained well-off even after their \\"prime earning years\\" were over. The book provides a fascinating look at a world that is certainly strange to the modern (and non-European) reader. The courtesan and her \\"protector\\" had a symbiotic relationship. The wealthy man provided money so that the courtesan could live an ostentatious lifestyle- with a beautiful home, expensive clothes and jewelry, servants, etc. Indeed, she was expected to \\"live it up\\" to show everyone what a generous lover she had. In return, the man could show the world how \\"special\\" he was- after all, he had not only vast amounts of money but he must also be pretty special to win the favors of such a desirable and selective woman. The courtesan was certainly predatory. A man could become totally infatuated and could lose all of his money supporting such a woman. Once the money ran dry, she would move on to greener pastures. On the other hand, the courtesan was totally dependent on the protector. If the man tired of the relationship and found someone new, the courtesan would very quickly have to find a new \\"sugar daddy\\" to maintain her extravagant lifestyle. Besides learning about the four courtesans selected for the book, we also learn about some of the men- such as Alexandre Dumas (fils) and Charles Baudelaire, as well as the Goncourt brothers (all of these men, by the way, were sources-through their fiction, poetry, and journals- for myths and legitimate information regarding the world of the courtesan). The author did a tremendous amount of research on the period in question, and she put it all together to create a fascinating look at a world that existed only for a brief time. If, like me, you are interested in 19th century France, I am sure you will get much pleasure from reading this book.	2003-07-16
US	51300959	R10SCVT1805AD9	0525947086	842898700	The Seashell on the Mountaintop: A Story of Science Sainthood and the Humble Genius Who Discovered a New History of the Earth	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	Sedimentary Edification	Written with obvious gusto, and containing witty and elegant prose that seems to flow by effortlessly, this is popular science at its very best. Nicolaus Steno (aka Niels Stensen in his native Danish) was a gifted dissectionist with a deft touch. He discovered the glands that produce tears (before this discovery, it was thought that when a person got extremely upset their brain leaked water, and this water came out through the eyes as tears!). Branching out from his anatomical studies, he studied seashells embedded in mountains and came to the conclusion that the sediments had been produced in the oceans. He also theorized that either the oceans had once been higher, or the mountains had been uplifted. These conclusions were far from obvious at the time, as the  periods necessary to produce thick layers of sediment and to raise mountain ranges would be quite lengthy....which would conflict with interpretations of the Bible which stated that the world was about 6,000 years old. In order to avoid this conflict, many people- rather than admit that seashell fossils were actually seashells- came up with the notion that the &quot;shells&quot; had actually grown right inside the rock. Therefore, they weren't really seashells! Steno was a very religious man (he was born a Protestant but converted to Catholicism) but he didn't believe in interpreting the Bible literally. He eventually gave up science, but not out of any conflict with his religious beliefs. He just believed it was more important to convert Protestants back to the &quot;true faith.&quot; The author does a wonderful job of immersing the reader in the intellectual climate of 17th century Europe, so that we can understand the scientific and religious debates detailed in the book. Mr. Cutler also provides interesting and sometimes amusing biographical snapshots of some of the famous people of the time, such as Isaac Newton and the tremendously gifted philosopher and mathematician Gottfried Leibniz. (Regarding Leibniz, the author quotes the duchess of Orleans who, after meeting the great man, said &quot;It is so rare for an intellectual to be smartly dressed, and not to smell, and to understand jokes.&quot;) If you are at all interested in the  history of geology, Mr. Cutler's book is a marvelous addition to the non-technical literature available for the curious layperson.niz, the author quotes the duchess of Orleans who, after meeting the great man, said &quot;It is so rare for an intellectual to be smartly dressed, and not to smell, and to understand jokes.&quot;) If you are at all interested in the  history of geology, Mr. Cutler's book is a marvelous addition to the non-technical literature available for the curious layperson.	2003-07-11
US	51300959	R1B8X4D71QUWQH	0500014205	951798675	Women of the Raj	Books	5	67	69	N	Y	Fascinating And Funny	Maybe it was because it was the summer and I was looking for a \\"light read,\\" but I really enjoyed this book. If you're looking for a scholarly book on this subject you may want to look elsewhere, because this is primarily a social/cultural history. The book is divided into lots of small chapters, each covering a particular theme, such as: taking the ship from Britain to India, housekeeping, courtship and marriage, bringing up children, social activities, etc. The author has filled the book with funny tidbits. For example, in the chapter on taking the ship over to India we learn that, due to the lack of laundry facilities, British women were advised to bring their oldest underwear with them. That way, when the clothing was dirty they could just chuck it overboard! In the chapter on courtship and marriage we find out that India was a \\"seller's market.\\" Men outnumbered women by three-to-one. Women enjoyed all of the attention and loved to flirt. Other women loved to gossip about the women that loved to flirt- hence, nasty nicknames abounded, such as \\"Treacle Tart\\" and \\"Betty-Bed-And-Breakfast.\\" In the section covering coping with the weather we find out that women who arrived in 80 degree weather, thinking it was the summer, were in for a nasty shock when the \\"real\\" summer hit and temperatures soared to 110-120 farenheit. Ladies and Gentlemen were still expected to don formal attire for supper (after all, we are talking about the British!). How to beat the heat? They put a huge block of ice under the dinner table- a form of primitive air conditioning. Mrs. MacMillan does have her serious moments: she talks about race relations, snobbery, and prejudice. We also learn about the caste system. The Brits were quite put out that, as foreigners, they were lumped together with the Untouchables. Quite a shock, that! The book also has a lot of interesting photographs taken in the late 1800's and early 1900's. All in all, highly recommended.	2003-07-06
US	51300959	RK2TPQSESWV6S	073820692X	305073177	The Man Who Found Time: James Hutton And The Discovery Of Earth's Antiquity	Books	3	18	20	N	Y	Rocky Road	This is a difficult book to classify and to rate, because it is \\"all over the place.\\" I can see some people giving it four stars and some people giving it two stars- it depends on your expectations. If you are looking, pretty much, for a \\"pure\\" science book you are going to be disappointed- you might only enjoy the last 60 pages or so. This is where the author delves into Hutton's conclusions and what happened after his death (i.e.- the academic battles between his supporters and detractors, and his influence on later geologists...specifically Charles Lyell). On the other hand, if your tastes are more catholic, you might enjoy the book a great deal. This is because for the first 140 pages of the book the author widens his scope and discusses lots of peripheral things- such as: the Scottish Enlightenment, with biographical interludes featuring such people as the philosopher David Hume, the economist Adam Smith, the inventor James Watt, and the chemist Joseph Black. Their work as well as their lives is discussed. There is even a pretty extensive detour into military history- exploring Bonnie Prince Charlie's efforts to reclaim the thrones of Scotland and England for the Stuart line. You certainly can't fault the style- the book is lively and well-written- but, again, you need to know that this isn't just a science book. If you just want to know about James Hutton and his theories, this book isn't for you. Conversely, if you enjoy meandering and exploring all sorts of \\"sidepaths,\\" you'll find this book to be very satisfying.	2003-06-27
US	51300959	R3AZCLAF8DK9DM	031242082X	280975572	Balsamic Dreams: A Short But Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Lowering The Boom On The Boomers	Another fine and funny effort by Mr. Queenan. Lest you think that I enjoyed the book because I wasn't in the \\"target category,\\" you'd be wrong. Born in 1954, I am a Boomerian. Does Mr. Queenan sometimes exaggerate? Sure he does. But that's his job, folks- he's a humorist! So, let's lighten up out there. Heck, the cover alone is almost worth the purchase price- Queenan with a queasy, \\"I love everybody,\\" parody-of-the-60's grin- including the obligatory \\"peace sign.\\" As with all good humor, we laugh because we recognize the truth behind it, whether boulder-sized ( the irony of the hippie generation becoming so incredibly materialistic) or nugget-sized (the \\"things-were-better-when-I-was-young\\" syndrome- exemplified by Mr. Queenan's joke concerning boomer-generation music: \\"Let me tell you something son- I knew Jeff Beck; and Beck is no Jeff Beck\\"). This book is a yuck-fest from start to finish, including such inspired items as: a multiple choice quiz to test your status as a true Boomer. Sample question- \\"Match the following Jims with their cause of death: Jim Morrison, Jimi Hendrix, Jim Croce.....Airplane Crash, Booze and drugs, Probably just drugs\\" and a chapter entitled \\"Ten Days That Rocked The World\\"- sample date: \\"December 3, 1967- Ginger Baker sports the first internationally famous male ponytail.\\" Is \\"Smokin' Joe\\" sometimes less than perfect? Sure- after all, he misses out on such potential humoristic motherlodes as: the Boomer fascination with \\"designer (bottled) water\\"; the abandonment of the 60's-70's \\"small-is beautiful\\" philosophy- exemplified best, perhaps, by the switch from buying VW \\"Beetles\\" to monster \\"Hummers\\" and SUV's; and Boomer failure to admit to any TV viewing unless, of course, it's something on PBS or a foreign \\"art\\" film on cable. But, hey, even with what's left out- there's still plenty of laughs, humiliation and embarrassment left for everyone!	2003-06-24
US	51300959	R1UJPCCKUFV4OK	0393057453	895380847	Darwin and the Barnacle: The Story of One Tiny Creature and History's Most Spectacular Scientific Breakthrough	Books	2	15	24	N	Y	Extremely Disappointing	This book has several problems, the most noticeable one being that it doesn't even live up to its own subtitle- &quot;The Story of One Tiny Creature and History's Most Spectacular Scientific Breakthrough.&quot; I think that, based on that subtitle, it is a reasonable assumption that the book is going to link Darwin's study of barnacles to his theory of evolution by natural selection. Well, I read all 261 pages of this book and let me state categorically that the author never makes the connection. We get a lot of information about barnacles, no doubt about it. We find out about barnacles that secrete their own shells, barnacles that burrow into other creatures' shells, barnacles that attach themselves to flesh, etc. We also get to know about hermaphroditical, bisexual, and unisexual barnacles. But the author never goes into specifics regarding why these variations developed, nor does she explain how the study of barnacles helped Darwin to further develop, or fine tune, &quot;History's Most Spectacular Scientific Breakthrough.&quot; (A debatable assertion, by the way, but hyperbole in modern publishing is so prevalent that I guess we're not supposed to take these things too seriously.) I kept reading and reading and said to myself that the author must have a purpose in barraging us with all of this barnacle minutiae. Must be she'll have a chapter near the end where she'll explain the specific biological/environmental reasons for the variations and show how this helped Darwin to clarify his thinking. Well, sorry to say there is no such chapter in the book. It was sort of like reading a mystery and the author never tells you how the detective solved the crime. Another problem that this book has is that the narrative flow is disturbed by some very bizarre analogies. If you think that I might possibly be going overboard with my choice of the word bizarre, consider the following: a developing fetus in Emma Darwin (Charles's wife) is compared to a barnacle attaching itselfto a host; and Charles undergoing an examination of his stomach is compared to a dissected barnacle being studied under a microscope. There are many more examples scattered throughout the book. All of them made me wince. So, does this book have any saving graces? Yes, it does. We learn about what an incredibly hard job Darwin took on when he decided to devote years of his life to studying barnacles, due to the seemingly endless variations he encountered, not to mention the problems involved in dissecting and studying such tiny creatures (even though I just mentioned it). We learn that Darwin didn't work on his own: he corresponded with many other naturalists, some who would generously loan him barnacle specimens and fossils from their own collections. He also had people all over the world gathering barnacle specimens for him, which they would send to him by post. In this case, as in so many others, the myth of the lone genius working in seclusion is shown to be just that- a myth. Ms. Stott is also careful to balance Darwin the scientist and Darwin the man- we learn about his self-doubts, health problems, and of his relationship to his wife and numerous children. Unfortunately, none of this is sufficient to overcome the problem of an author not accomplishing what she set out to do. Cruel as it might sound, you'd be much better off reading any collection of essays by Stephen Jay Gould.	2003-06-23
US	51300959	R17E2C4M9IFTUV	0786884088	7901323	Red Lobster, White Trash, & the Blue Lagoon: Joe Queenan's America	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Quality Quips By Queenan	This is a very funny book. (A good thing, I suppose, since Mr. Queenan makes his living as a humorist!) The author is intelligent, observant, and witty. He skewers the bad and the merely mediocre in various categories: film, television, theater, music, restaurant chains, etc. One caveat- Mr. Queenan ranges far and wide in his quest for the Holy Grail of garbage. He is bound to hit on some things that you happen to like. If that's going to bother you, you may not like this book. If you can shrug it off and just get your jollies from the bits you agree with, then you should enjoy this book. As an example: Mr. Queenan administers a well-deserved thrashing to His Satanic Majesty, Phil Collins. On the other hand, he equates (unfairly, in my obviously subjective opinion) Billy Joel with Mr. Collins. He also doesn't have much good to say about Cat Stevens, Yanni, Kenny G., Toto, John Tesh, Travis Tritt, or Garth Brooks. In the realm of the family restaurant, he trashes Red Lobster and The Olive Garden, but likes Sizzlers and Bob's Big Boy. Well, you get the idea. If you enjoy most popular culture, this book probably isn't for you. If, on the other hand, you think most of the stuff out there is not going into any time capsules for the edification of aliens, you'll have a good time. Here's a &quot;test sentence&quot; to see if you like the style. The victim of this particular rant is Michael Bolton: &quot;And having to sit there and listen while this Kmart Joe Cocker mutilates 'You Send Me' is like sitting through a performance of 'King Lear' with Don Knotts in the title role.&quot; Or, try this one: &quot;Red Lobster, I quickly learned, was a chain geared toward people who think of themselves as a little bit too upscale for Roy Rogers.&quot; I think the above excerpts give you a pretty good taste of the flavor of the prose. One other red flag might be worth waving: although Mr. Queenan doesn't actually use what are so quaintly termed &quot;dirty words,&quot; he does cruisearound the outskirts of that particular linguistic neighborhood (using equivalent slang terms, for example). Again, as with &quot;sacred cows,&quot; if not-so-poetic license of this sort bothers you, you may want to stay away. Otherwise, get a copy of this book, grab your towel and sunblock, and hit the beach and settle in for a fast, funny read. And, oh yes, don't forget your Phil Collins CD's...	2003-06-18
US	51300959	R29VFHOIEIJFF4	0060006900	186763201	The Last Alchemist: Count Cagliostro, Master of Magic in the Age of Reason	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Sicilian Style	The author of this book, Iain McCalman, previously known for the writing or editing of scholarly works, has done a fine job here of turning out an interesting and entertaining piece of popular history. This is the kind of history book I really enjoy- it tells about the life of a colorful and fascinating person who was previously unknown to me. Count Alessandro di Cagliostro (who wasn't a count- the title and name were pure invention) was born with the more prosaic name of Giuseppe Balsamo, in the rough-and-tumble world of mid-18th century Sicily. He grew up amongst cutthroats and con artists and by the time he was barely out of his teens he was himself an accomplished swindler. What makes him interesting is how he \\"evolved,\\" the company he kept, and how, like a human inkblot, he was perceived differently by those he came in contact with. Cagliostro developed into a topflight alchemist- which in his case meant a combination of apothecary, magician and conman. He became a Freemason, which gave him entry into high places in various countries- but which also caused him to be distrusted and spied upon by those who looked upon Freemasons as secretive, subversive, freethinking and a bit too egalitarian for the standards of the time. Hence, Cagliostro was not on \\"The A-List\\" of such heavyweights as the Bourbons, Catherine The Great, and the Catholic Church. Like many swindlers throughout history, Cagliostro eventually came to at least half-believe in his own hokum, and in addition to thinking that he had great spiritual gifts, he also set himself up as a great healer. He set up various clinics throughout Europe where he \\"treated\\" (with pills, potions, and the laying on of hands) the poor- at no charge to his patients. Disturbingly, at least for the medical profession of the day, he had a surprising amount of success. For a sidekick, Cagliostro had his beautiful and invaluable wife Seraphina. (There is a copy of an engraving of the young Seraphina reproduced in the book. Nodoubt about it- she was a dish.) She travelled the European circuit with Cagliostro, charming and seducing the wealthy and powerful patrons that helped her and her husband climb the ladder of success: add pimp to \\"The Count's\\" list of accomplishments. The author has a fine time incorporating historical slapstick into the book- we learn of Casanova's jealousy of Cagliostro; we also get some juicy tidbits concerning Catherine The Great's amorous adventures- it seems that when her personally handpicked guardsmen lovers weren't meeting her rather demanding standards, Catherine would send them to the royal physician for a \\"tune-up\\" (involving aphrodisiacs as a dietary supplement). The author states that, historically, Cagliostro has been seen in black-and-white terms: either as a holy healer or as swindler extraordinaire. His own view is that Giuseppe Balsamo was a complex mixture of both. Part of the fun of this charming book is coming to your own conclusion about this human puzzle from the streets of Palermo.	2003-06-17
US	51300959	RFOA0DIXFXU1B	0520218183	150148992	Degas in New Orleans: Encounters in the Creole World of Kate Chopin and George Washington Cable	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	New Orleans Jazz....	Maybe the most important thing for you to know about this book is that it isn't just, or even mostly, about Edgar Degas. If you're in the market solely for an art book about Degas, you may not like this book. What this book is really about is 19th century New Orleans. Degas' 1872-1873 trip is the main theme which the author has used as his framework. Mr. Benfey \\"improvises\\" on this theme and goes off in interesting directions. He talks about what made New Orleans unique- the  early Creole settlers vs. the \\"Americans\\" that arrived after the Louisiana Purchase; the free black population (pre-Civil War) vs. the slaves who became free because of the war; the rupture caused by the war- as New Orleans was occupied by Federal forces through almost all of the conflict. (Many of the local women proved to be fairly feisty in showing their contempt for the Yankees. One woman in the French Quarter supposedly downloaded the contents of a chamber pot onto Admiral Farragut's head. On another occasion, the soldier in charge of keeping order, General Benjamin \\"Beast\\" Butler, was riding by some women and they all turned their backs to him. Butler remarked, \\"those women evidently know which end of them looks best.\\") After the Civil War the economy, based almost solely on King Cotton, took a beating in the Depression of the 1870's. Yankee \\"carpetbaggers\\" were despised. Liberals who wanted integration of the races did battle, sometimes literally, with reactionary forces who yearned for a return to the days of slavery. Mr. Benfey works in some analysis of the writers Kate Chopin and George Washington Cable, who were interested in some of the above themes. The author does devote a fairly good portion of the book to discussing Degas' \\"Louisiana Connection,\\" (his mother was born in New Orleans; he had relatives who were involved in the cotton trade; and his younger brother, Rene, left France to try to make his fortune in New Orleans). If you enjoy Degas' art, you will find Mr. Benfey's musings on the portraits and \\"genre scenes\\" that Degas did during this period to be interesting and informative. For example, from a purely painterly standpoint, Degas enjoyed the juxtaposition of black and white skin, as well as the white of cotton against the black suits and hats commonly worn by businessmen of the time. Mr. Benfey also, convincingly, shows that Degas' started to use, in these paintings, certain compositional effects- such as slanted floors, the arrangement of figures in interior spaces, and certain hand and head movements- that would shortly reappear in the more famous \\"ballet paintings.\\" We also see Degas in transition from his early \\"realistic\\" phase to a looser, more \\"Impressionistic\\" style of painting. I also found it interesting that Degas was fascinated by many things he saw while walking around New Orleans, but he was limited mostly to painting interior scenes because the light of New Orleans was bothering his eyes. (He started to have problems with his vision while serving in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870. By the time of his death in 1917 he was nearly blind.) There was enough about Degas and his family and art in this book to satisfy me, plus I enjoyed Mr. Benfey's \\"improvisations.\\" If, in addition to being a Degas fan, you have any interest in the antebellum and post-Civil War worlds of New Orleans, I think you will get a lot of enjoyment and intellectual stimulation from this book.	2003-06-13
US	51300959	R3VUBSVG161NIH	0520218183	150148992	Degas in New Orleans: Encounters in the Creole World of Kate Chopin and George Washington Cable	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	New Orleans Jazz....	Maybe the most important thing for you to know about this book is that it isn't just, or even mostly, about Edgar Degas. If you're in the market solely for an art book about Degas, you may not like this book. What this book is really about is 19th century New Orleans. Degas' 1872-1873 trip is the main theme which the author has used as his framework. Mr. Benfey \\"improvises\\" on this theme and goes off in interesting directions. He talks about what made New Orleans unique- the  early Creole settlers vs. the \\"Americans\\" that arrived after the Louisiana Purchase; the free black population (pre-Civil War) vs. the slaves who became free because of the war; the rupture caused by the war- as New Orleans was occupied by Federal forces through almost all of the conflict. (Many of the local women proved to be fairly feisty in showing their contempt for the Yankees. One woman in the French Quarter supposedly downloaded the contents of a chamber pot onto Admiral Farragut's head. On another occasion, the soldier in charge of keeping order, General Benjamin \\"Beast\\" Butler, was riding by some women and they all turned their backs to him. Butler remarked, \\"those women evidently know which end of them looks best.\\") After the Civil War the economy, based almost solely on King Cotton, took a beating in the Depression of the 1870's. Yankee \\"carpetbaggers\\" were despised. Liberals who wanted integration of the races did battle, sometimes literally, with reactionary forces who yearned for a return to the days of slavery. Mr. Benfey works in some analysis of the writers Kate Chopin and George Washington Cable, who were interested in some of the above themes. The author does devote a fairly good portion of the book to discussing Degas' \\"Louisiana Connection,\\" (his mother was born in New Orleans; he had relatives who were involved in the cotton trade; and his younger brother, Rene, left France to try to make his fortune in New Orleans). If you enjoy Degas' art, you will find Mr. Benfey's musings on the portraits and \\"genre scenes\\" that Degas did during this period to be interesting and informative. For example, from a purely painterly standpoint, Degas enjoyed the juxtaposition of black and white skin, as well as the white of cotton against the black suits and hats commonly worn by businessmen of the time. Mr. Benfey also, convincingly, shows that Degas' started to use, in these paintings, certain compositional effects- such as slanted floors, the arrangement of figures in interior spaces, and certain hand and head movements- that would shortly reappear in the more famous \\"ballet paintings.\\" We also see Degas in transition from his early \\"realistic\\" phase to a looser, more \\"Impressionistic\\" style of painting. I also found it interesting that Degas was fascinated by many things he saw while walking around New Orleans, but he was limited mostly to painting interior scenes because the light of New Orleans was bothering his eyes. (He started to have problems with his vision while serving in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870. By the time of his death in 1917 he was nearly blind.) There was enough about Degas and his family and art in this book to satisfy me, plus I enjoyed Mr. Benfey's \\"improvisations.\\" If, in addition to being a Degas fan, you have any interest in the antebellum and post-Civil War worlds of New Orleans, I think you will get a lot of enjoyment and intellectual stimulation from this book.	2003-06-13
US	51300959	R38BIV7LKS6Y7O	0874773970	424843447	Explorers Extraordinary	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Extraordinary Explorers...With An Asterisk	What's the reason for an asterisk? Well, this book is about 7 explorers. However, it turns out that one of them, Louis de Rougemont, made up all of his exploits and was eventually exposed as a fraud....and another one, A. Henry Savage Landor, mixed fantasy and reality together to such an extent that it is difficult to know what happened and what didn't. So, about 1/3 of the book concerns \\"events\\" more suited for exposition in a novel. Fortunately, Mr. Keay writes so well....with tongue-in-cheek humor and sympathy and psychological insight...that the other 5 chapters are well- worth your time. Here's what's on the menu (pun intended, since cannibals are present in this book...): John MacGregor, who was an evangelist/explorer who went everywhere by canoe. His canoe was a remarkable craft- it only displaced 3 inches of water. MacGregor \\"sailed\\" through the Suez Canal, before it was completed. He was also a very entertaining chap on the lecture circuit back home in England; Captain John Cochrane- who aimed to walk around the world. However, he was a very romantic fellow and subject to \\"love at first sight.\\" Alas, whilst walking through Siberia he fell in love with a 14 year old Kamchatkan girl. He wound up marrying her, and his walking days were over; Dr. Ludwig Leichhardt- a German botanist who set out to learn everything he could about the flora of Australia, and who disappeared without a trace into the Outback; Mary Kingsley- the \\"proper English spinster\\" who fell in love with Africa. She learned to eat snake, and one time- while accepting some hospitality from cannibals- she noticed a strange smell. She traced the smell to a small bag hidden in the roof joists of her hut. The bag contained \\"...a human hand, three big toes, four eyes, two ears, and other portions of the human frame.\\"; Isabelle Eberhardt- a waif-like woman who dressed like a man and who fell in love with the Sahara....and who eventually found the love of her life in the Sahara. Because Landor and de Rougemont were \\"phony\\" explorers, I didn't find this book to be good as Mr. Keay's \\"Eccentric Travellers,\\" whose subjects were all \\"the genuine article.\\" However, as mentioned above, Mr. Keay is an excellent writer, and I found the authentic exploits detailed in this book to be very interesting as well as exciting.	2003-06-12
US	51300959	R1W7JQYBS59S1B	1585673455	429992226	Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics	Books	5	95	102	N	Y	Cyanide Capsules Are Available At The Door...	Do we really need another book about \\"Der Fuhrer\\"? Surprisingly, if the book is this one, the answer is yes. Because this book looks at Hitler from a different angle- one that is pretty much unknown to the layperson: this book is about the \\"sensitive,\\" \\"artistic,\\" and \\"cultivated\\" Hitler. As you might expect when using such words in connection with Hitler, contradictions abound. The man who could weep while listening to the music of Wagner is the same man who, the moment he came to power, fired or drove into exile musicians and artists he didn't approve of: Jews, Bolsheviks, Modernists, etc. On the other hand, if he liked you personally and thought you were talented, he would sometimes look the other way- he supported, or at least didn't harass, several people who were Jewish or who disagreed with him politically. Some of you may have winced when I used the word \\"cultivated\\" in connection with Hitler. But, consider the following: he was very well read (and had a tremendous, possibly photographic, memory); he was a competent, though unimaginative, artist- he could draw and paint as well as your average art school student (and he was completely self-taught); he knew a tremendous amount about the operas of Wagner, and was a good judge of opera singers; he was knowledgeable about architecture, could make architectural sketches, and could intelligently discuss technical aspects of the craft, etc. Having said that, we must remember the flip-side- Hitler was very narrowminded. His love of art was pretty much limited to 19th century German Romantics and some of the painters of the Italian Renaissance. He thought all modern art- which for him started with the Impressionists- was trash, and decadent to boot. He loved opera, but only Wagner and Puccini. He didn't much care for other music- he wasn't really enthusiastic about Beethoven, Mozart, etc. He couldn't stand Brahms, although he eventually did develop a taste for Bruckner. He thought modern music, with its dissonances and atonality, was horrible. In architecture, he admired the Greeks and Romans- but in his building plans for the Third Reich everything had to be magnified to colossal size to awe people. Glass and steel structures left him cold, although he grudgingly realized he'd have to agree to build skyscrapers if only to show that National Socialist Germany could outdo America. Surprisingly, Hitler generally liked his culture \\"neat.\\" He didn't want political messages- he wanted high-quality, beautiful, soul-elevating art/music/sculpture. Of course, he would tell you what qualified as high-quality, beautiful, and soul-elevating. It may seem odd, but Hitler was embarrassed by the crudity of his Nazi cronies. The vast majority of them had no interest in art, music and sculpture. They'd be dragged, although only silently kicking and screaming, to Bayreuth for the yearly dose of Wagner. They'd fall asleep and start to snore. No wonder the Little Corporal preferred the company of artists, musicians and sculptors. Perhaps the ultimate irony is that the man who wanted \\"art\\" with no political content- \\"art\\" that elevated people and helped them to get away from the problems, big and small, of everyday life, succeeded in politicizing culture to an unprecedented degree. This book is a brilliant achievement by Mr. Spotts. It forces us to look at Hitler not as a ranting, foaming-at-the-mouth, caricature, but as a fellow human being with, dare I say it, some positive qualities. Yes, the devil is given his due.....but Mr. Spotts never forgets who or what he is dealing with. Why did I give this review the title I did? Mr. Spotts mentions that it was agreed that, when the end of the \\"Thousand Year Reich\\" was at hand, the Berlin Philharmonic would add Bruckner's Fourth Symphony to the programme. On the night of April 13th, 1945, the symphony was finally played. As people filed out of the concert hall afterwards, Hitler Youth were in the lobby, hawking cyanide capsules to interested takers. PoorBruckner probably turned over in his grave.	2003-06-06
US	51300959	R2KMFB4033UBJK	0471394319	617501100	Lightning War: Blitzkrieg in the West, 1940	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	"I'm Not Going To Die Dressed Like A Third-Rate Chauffeur"	This is a very solid book on the May 1940 German invasion of Belgium, Holland, and France and the subsequent Allied evacuation of troops from Dunkirk. The casual reader (I'm including myself, here) may be a bit put off by the first half of the book, which details the German thrust through the Ardennes forest into Belgium. I found this section to be overly technical, with the chessboard maneuverings of troops on both sides gone into in great detail. It also didn't help that the maps are few and far between, and are too general. For all the detail that the author goes into he really needed more maps, with each one covering a smaller area. (The maps were not created for this book, by the way. They are all borrowed from William Shirer's \\"Collapse Of The Third Republic.\\") So, that's on the downside. But here's the good news: the book really picks up in the second half, with a much better balance of technical description with human interest. I don't think you will find a better-written account of the Dunkirk evacuation, with many first-person accounts of the action- and the behind the scenes political action in London, Paris, and Brussels, as well. The author is very even-handed in his account and, in my opinion, he draws the proper conclusions from the evidence presented. The British intentionally delayed, almost to the last moment, telling the French that the retreat to Dunkirk was only the prelude to the British intention of evacuating all troops from the Continent. They wanted the French to fight on to \\"cover\\" the evacuation, so the French were allowed to believe that Dunkirk was going to be turned into a gathering point from which to launch a counterattack. British claims that the French soldiers \\"threw in the towel\\" were erroneous. The author shows that the common soldiers fought well and bravely. They were let down by the political and military leadership. The officer corps was too old and stuck in the past. They were still thinking in terms of WWI, with tanks in support of infantry. They didn't understand mechanized warfare. If they did, they would have realized that the Ardennes forest was definitely a possible invasion route, and they wouldn't have diverted so many men and so much equipment to the North. The Germans concentrated their tank forces for maximum effectiveness. The French and Belgians spread their tanks out and used them piecemeal. The Germans also used air support, which the French and Belgians didn't. The German commanders were right at the front, and were allowed to think independently and show initiative. Allied commanders were expected to stick to the \\"game plan\\" devised by generals who stayed back from the front- and who, therefore, didn't know what was going on. The lessons from the 1939 Nazi invasion of Poland were there for all to see- but the lessons weren't learned. The evacuation from Dunkirk, however, was a remarkable achievement. It is ironic that Hitler, who was bold enough to approve the thrust through the Ardennes which precipitated the Allied military collapse, was instrumental in assisting the success of the evacuation. The panzers got so far ahead of the German infantry that even Hitler reverted to a WWI mentality and worried about a counterattack. Against the wishes of his top brass, he halted the panzers for several crucial days- allowing the Allies to re-group and to organize the evacuation. You may be wondering about the significance of the title of this review. I chose it as being representative of the many wonderful first person accounts that are included. It is part of a quotation from Major Angus McCorquodale, a company commander in the British Expeditionary Force. He was an \\"old-fashioned\\" soldier, and didn't like the modern uniform. He preferred the old, polished brass and leather. As the major said, \\"I don't mind dying for my country, but I'm not going to die dressed like a third-rate chauffeur.\\" Later on, after his men had stopped a German infantry advance, McCorquodale pulled out some bottles of sherry and some glasses and proposed a toast \\"To a very gallant and competent enemy.\\"	2003-06-03
US	51300959	R3GXBVRO2QNGEL	0471394319	617501100	Lightning War: Blitzkrieg in the West, 1940	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	"I'm Not Going To Die Dressed Like A Third-Rate Chauffeur"	This is a very solid book on the May 1940 German invasion of Belgium, Holland, and France and the subsequent Allied evacuation of troops from Dunkirk. The casual reader (I'm including myself, here) may be a bit put off by the first half of the book, which details the German thrust through the Ardennes forest into Belgium. I found this section to be overly technical, with the chessboard maneuverings of troops on both sides gone into in great detail. It also didn't help that the maps are few and far between, and are too general. For all the detail that the author goes into he really needed more maps, with each one covering a smaller area. (The maps were not created for this book, by the way. They are all borrowed from William Shirer's \\"Collapse Of The Third Republic.\\") So, that's on the downside. But here's the good news: the book really picks up in the second half, with a much better balance of technical description with human interest. I don't think you will find a better-written account of the Dunkirk evacuation, with many first-person accounts of the action- and the behind the scenes political action in London, Paris, and Brussels, as well. The author is very even-handed in his account and, in my opinion, he draws the proper conclusions from the evidence presented. The British intentionally delayed, almost to the last moment, telling the French that the retreat to Dunkirk was only the prelude to the British intention of evacuating all troops from the Continent. They wanted the French to fight on to \\"cover\\" the evacuation, so the French were allowed to believe that Dunkirk was going to be turned into a gathering point from which to launch a counterattack. British claims that the French soldiers \\"threw in the towel\\" were erroneous. The author shows that the common soldiers fought well and bravely. They were let down by the political and military leadership. The officer corps was too old and stuck in the past. They were still thinking in terms of WWI, with tanks in support of infantry. They didn't understand mechanized warfare. If they did, they would have realized that the Ardennes forest was definitely a possible invasion route, and they wouldn't have diverted so many men and so much equipment to the North. The Germans concentrated their tank forces for maximum effectiveness. The French and Belgians spread their tanks out and used them piecemeal. The Germans also used air support, which the French and Belgians didn't. The German commanders were right at the front, and were allowed to think independently and show initiative. Allied commanders were expected to stick to the \\"game plan\\" devised by generals who stayed back from the front- and who, therefore, didn't know what was going on. The lessons from the 1939 Nazi invasion of Poland were there for all to see- but the lessons weren't learned. The evacuation from Dunkirk, however, was a remarkable achievement. It is ironic that Hitler, who was bold enough to approve the thrust through the Ardennes which precipitated the Allied military collapse, was instrumental in assisting the success of the evacuation. The panzers got so far ahead of the German infantry that even Hitler reverted to a WWI mentality and worried about a counterattack. Against the wishes of his top brass, he halted the panzers for several crucial days- allowing the Allies to re-group and to organize the evacuation. You may be wondering about the significance of the title of this review. I chose it as being representative of the many wonderful first person accounts that are included. It is part of a quotation from Major Angus McCorquodale, a company commander in the British Expeditionary Force. He was an \\"old-fashioned\\" soldier, and didn't like the modern uniform. He preferred the old, polished brass and leather. As the major said, \\"I don't mind dying for my country, but I'm not going to die dressed like a third-rate chauffeur.\\" Later on, after his men had stopped a German infantry advance, McCorquodale pulled out some bottles of sherry and some glasses and proposed a toast \\"To a very gallant and competent enemy.\\"	2003-06-03
US	51300959	R3BZ7AFQTS2VMU	0375503277	669884232	The Great Wave: Gilded Age Misfits, Japanese Eccentrics, and the Opening of Old Japan	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Ripple-Effect	OK.....we all know from our schooldays that there was a Boston Tea Party. We also know that in Japan they have a very elaborate tea ceremony. Early on in this very clever, erudite, and complex book, the author mentions these two facts. Is there a reason for him to do so? Well, yes, there is. It is one of the many interesting ways that Mr. Benfey shows the connection between Boston and Japan. Merchant ships from Boston (and the surrounding area) were deeply involved in the oriental tea trade. Also, ships from nearby ports were involved in whaling and frequently travelled to the whaling grounds off of Japan. Also, as the author shows, quite a few Boston Brahmins were interested in the culture of &quot;Old Japan.&quot; They were disgusted with what they perceived to be the material crassness and lack of spirituality of America, as well as the jarring modernity of the Industrial Age. They wanted to go to Japan and to study the Japanese way of life before Japan, which had recently been &quot;opened&quot; by Commodore Perry, became &quot;westernized.&quot; It was felt that there was much to learn by studying the religions of Japan, such as Buddhism and Taoism, as well as Japanese art and architecture. Mr. Benfey describes a few Japanese that travelled to the West, but most of the book details traffic going in the other direction. The author does an excellent job of describing how people as diverse as Henry Adams, Herman Melville, Frank Lloyd Wright, the artist John La Farge, the writer Lafcadio Hearn and the astronomer Percival Lowell (the man we mainly remember for his, erroneous, theory regarding the presence of &quot;canals&quot; on Mars) were shaped or influenced by their journeys to (or study of) the &quot;mysterious East.&quot; Mr. Benfey weaves a magisterial tapestry, as he has purposely chosen people whose lives intersected. Thus, in a chain-reaction, one person who has fallen in love with Japan sparks an interest in another person, and so on down the line. So, for example, Percival Lowell influenced, through his writings on Japan, his poet-sister Amy Lowell. Dr. William Sturgis Bigelow, attempting to get Theodore Roosevelt to adopt a pro-Japanese stance, figured it would be best to appeal to the President's aggressive side. (Roosevelt was well-known for not believing that &quot;the meek shall inherit the earth.) In Bigelow's view the smart thing was to steer clear of oriental art and Buddhism and get the President interested in judo and the warrior ethic of the samurai. If the President could be convinced that the Japanese were manly and not effeminate, he might be more inclined to favor them. Bigelow got Roosevelt hooked on judo by pinning him to the floor in his office. Roosevelt set aside a Judo Room in the White House and studied with an authentic Japanese judo master. The enthusiastic Roosevelt even mentioned at a cabinet meeting &quot;that his 'Japanese wrestler' had throat muscles 'so powerfully developed by training that it is impossible for any ordinary man to strangle him.'&quot; Another interesting section of the book details how Frank Lloyd Wright's ideas on architecture were influenced by the traditional Japanese belief in simple lines and the importance of empty space and lack of clutter. Likewise, we see how Ezra Pound's admiration for the succinctness of Japanese poetry was reflected in his own work. One thing that is very interesting about the book is &quot;the eye of the beholder&quot; aspect: people saw what they wanted to. Some people saw the Japanese as warriors and &quot;masculine&quot; , while others saw only the artistic, &quot;feminine&quot; side of the country. Some thought the Japanese were &quot;mere imitators&quot; while others recognized great creativity. Ironically, while some Westerners longed to see  &quot;mystical, unspoiled&quot; Japan, the country was busy trying to catch up to the West- but trying to do so without abandoning its traditions. If the book has one weakness, it is that it istoo heavily weighted with examples of Westerners travelling East. It would have been enlightening to have learned about the experiences of some more Japanese who journeyed to America. Still, this is a brilliantly conceived and executed book, which shows how culture is spread and that not only &quot;nature abhors a vacuum&quot;- people do, as well. No matter how creative we are, nobody is able to make something out of nothing. We all need something to build on, and to spark our creativity.	2003-05-30
US	51300959	R3NID0HTF7I6F5	0393321657	815553878	The Muslim Discovery of Europe	Books	3	10	14	N	Y	All Over The Place...	I had trouble maintaining my concentration and interest with this book. Despite the fact that the author has broken the book up into \\"theme\\" chapters, such as \\"Muslim Scholarship About The West,\\" \\"Government And Justice,\\" \\"Science And Technology,\\" etc., the book suffers from a lack of focus. Mr. Lewis keeps jumping back and forth, within the space of a few sentences, in both time (from about 700-1900 A.D.) and space (from Morocco across to Iran). He seems to have just gathered together a lot of material and pretty much jumbled it together. It doesn't really come together, and I found the structure disconcerting and even annoying. Another problem is that the author includes too many excerpts from first person accounts, which results in whatever narrative flow the book does have being disrupted even further. There is too much repetition- the author makes the same points over and over and includes four quotations when one or two would suffice. The book merits three stars because if you have the patience to sift through all of the material, you will be rewarded with some nuggets. For example, in the section dealing with economics, Mr. Lewis mentions that coffee and sugar both originated, commercially speaking, in Muslim countries, but these same countries wound up importing both items (because of lower prices) from the Central American and Caribbean colonies of Western European countries; in the section on religion, the author explains that Muslims had a difficult time understanding the concept of a Pope, especially that a man could forgive sins, as in Islam there is no such hierarchy as exists in the Catholic Church, and only God can forgive sins; in the chapter entitled \\"Social And Personal\\" the author quotes a disgusted Muslim regarding European personal hygiene: \\"You shall see none more filthy than they...They do not cleanse or bathe themselves more than once or twice a year, and then in cold water, and they do not wash their garments from the time they put them on until they fall to pieces. They shave their beards, and after shaving they sprout only a revolting stubble.\\" Some of the excerpts are enlightening, some funny, and some sad (because they demonstrate the prejudice, intolerance, and lack of understanding that runs in both directions- and certainly gives us reason to ponder what the future holds in store). Again, though, there is just too much data here which is put together in a slapdash fashion. Mr. Lewis had a basic idea which could have resulted in an excellent book. Too bad the end result didn't fulfill the original promise.until they fall to pieces. They shave their beards, and after shaving they sprout only a revolting stubble.\\" Some of the excerpts are enlightening, some funny, and some sad (because they demonstrate the prejudice, intolerance, and lack of understanding that runs in both directions- and certainly gives us reason to ponder what the future holds in store). Again, though, there is just too much data here which is put together in a slapdash fashion. Mr. Lewis had a basic idea which could have resulted in an excellent book. Too bad the end result didn't fulfill the original promise.	2003-05-28
US	51300959	R1MSGW8D1XI9HV	0874772761	313319663	Eccentric Travellers:  Excursions with Seven Extraordinary Figures from the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Mad Dogs And Englishmen...	If you enjoy \\"armchair adventure\\" travel books I think you will find \\"Eccentric Travellers\\" well worth your time. You get the stories of 7 different people, with the added bonus that they were all engagingly eccentric individuals. Each chapter runs to about 30 pages, and Mr. Keay writes well. He has a deft touch, a good sense of humor, and obvious sympathy for the brave and quirky oddballs he has elected to include. As there is no synopsis on the webpage, here are the folks who are included: Captain Philip Thicknesse- who travelled through Europe with his wife and daughters, his cocker spaniel, pet parakeet, and Jocko the monkey. Jocko wore a red jacket, jack-boots, a hard hat, and he led the way by riding on top of the horse that pulled the coach. Oh yes, Jocko also carried a riding crop; Thomas Manning- a brilliant scholar and China enthusiast who, when he was denied permission to travel to Peking, tried to sneak in through the \\"back door\\" by going through Tibet. He never made it, but he was the first European who gained entry to the forbidden fortress of Lhasa, and had an audience with the seven-year-old Dalai Lama; James Holman- who, though blind, travelled further than anyone else in the book. On one trip he journeyed with a deaf companion, and in Moscow he met a Captain John Cochrane, a man who had planned to walk around the world but got sidetracked in Siberia- after walking all the way across Russia he fell in love with a 15 year old Kamchatkan girl, married her, and backtracked to Moscow; Charles Waterton- a traveller who engaged in the hobby of taxidermy. While slogging his way through South America he wrestled with both a boa constrictor and a cayman (similar to an alligator). He was also a firm believer in bloodletting to ward off fever and illness. He would perform the procedure on himself- draining up to a pint at a time. He called the operation \\"tapping the claret.\\"; Joseph Wolff- a convert to Christianity, he reckoned himself to be the first Jew since Jesus to preach Christianity in Jerusalem. He once met Pope Pius VII and, patting the Pope on the shoulder, said to him \\"I love Your Holiness. Give me your blessing.\\" Wolff was quite an ambitious fellow. He hoped to be Pope himself one day. In fact, he even had his own papal name picked out- Hildebrandus I. Part of his procedure for trying to get Muslims to convert to Christianity was to hand out copies of \\"Robinson Crusoe\\"- translated into Arabic; William Palgrave- starting off as a wunderkind and scholar (at eighteen months he had learned half the alphabet; at three he was a good speller; at six he was studying botany and the Chinese alphabet; by age seven he had learnt the first book of the \\"Aenid\\" by heart), he later became a Jesuit. He was a master of disguise and snuck into Riyadh in what is now Saudi Arabia. (His Arabic was flawless.) If he had been found out it would have been fatal. Central Arabia was under the thumb of the Wahabi Mohammedans, a fundamentalist sect so strict that they believed orthodox Sunni Mohammedans had strayed from the true path; Gottlieb Leitner- born in Budapest of German parents, but he wound up in Woking, England. He built the \\"Oriental University Institute, Woking\\" which boasted the first mosque in England. He spoke 15 languages by the time he left school and, supposedly, \\"added one each year thereafter.\\" Engaged in linguistic research, he travelled to Kashmir, Tibet and Afghanistan. One time he brought back some natives of Dardistan to his (then) home in India: \\"One of them,  otherwise a nice fellow, I stopped in the attempt of cutting off the head of his mother. The good son merely wished to prevent her from dying of grief in consequence of his departure.\\" Obviously, at only 30 pages per subject, the author can't go into great biographical depth. But this was a very enjoyable, exciting and funny book. Just make sure to have some mosquito netting and quinine nearby.	2003-05-27
US	51300959	REPFW2N1GLX1S	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Taking A Poker To Popper?	This book is a very enlightening mix of philosophy, biography, and cultural history. Ludwig Wittgenstein believed that philosophy involved the study of linguistic puzzles rather than actual problems. It is generally accepted that Wittgenstein was correct when he said that words have no intrinsic meaning- words only have the meaning that we assign to them . Thus, it is delusional to think that language mirrors the real world. Karl Popper, while agreeing that a lot of philosophy was about defining words and terms, thought that real problems existed and needed to be studied. For example, using inductive reasoning, all because we see the sun rise every day, can we conclude that it will also rise tomorrow? As the authors write, \\"Whether we have good reason to believe that the sun will rise tomorrow seems to be a problem beyond language itself.\\" But I don't want to give the impression that this book is all heavy philosophical sledding. David Edmonds and John Eidinow give us just enough philosophy so that we feel we know where Wittgenstein and Popper \\"stood\\" on some basic issues. For the purposes of this book we don't have to go much further, because a lot of this dispute can be attributed to just the clash of two giant egos. Both men were arrogant and blunt, and neither suffered fools gladly. (Of course, by their standards almost everyone else was a fool!) In a subtle manner, the authors introduce a philosophical question of their own: What can we really know with certainty? The authors were able to contact nine of the men who were present at the famous meeting of October 25th, 1946. Everyone remembers things differently. Some people thought Wittgenstein waved the poker around in a menacing manner. Other people thought not- they thought he had just absentmindedly picked it up, as he had done at previous meetings, while thinking about things. Everyone agreed that Wittgenstein had \\"stormed\\" out of the meeting early. However, Popper remembered a sarcastic remark that he madeas being the cause. Other people remembered Wittgenstein leaving in a huff after exchanging sharp words with Bertrand Russell, and that Popper's remark came after Wittgenstein had already gone. Of course, human beings are subjective rather than objective. Popper wanted to think that he had caused Wittgenstein to \\"flee.\\" Some of the people present were pro-Popper and some were pro-Wittgenstein. As interesting as all this was to read about, I was even more fascinated by some of the biographical and cultural information. For example, three of Wittgenstein's brothers had committed suicide- and he himself said that a day didn't go by where he didn't think of killing himself. On the lighter side, besides reading heavyweights such as Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, he also enjoyed Agatha Christie and P.G. Wodehouse. As Wittgenstein and Popper were both of Jewish ancestry (though both families had converted to Christianity) and both from Vienna, the authors write quite a bit concerning what it was like to be Jewish in early and mid-20th century Austria e.g- assimilation and anti-Semitism; conditions before WWI and after; the situation before and after Hitler came to power, etc. Wittgenstein came from a very wealthy family. The family was able, with a \\"contribution\\" of 1.7 tons (yes, tons) of gold, to induce the Nazis to classify the Wittgensteins as \\"not sufficiently Jewish\\" to be \\"bothered.\\" Thus, family members did not suffer the fate of their poorer brethren. (By comparison, 16 of Popper's relatives became victims of the Holocaust.) The authors try to make a case that part of the reason sparks flew between the two men was that Wittgenstein looked down (socially) on Popper and Popper resented the elitist and aristocratic Wittgensteins. I didn't buy this argument. The two philosophers had never met before the famous evening and Wittgenstein claimed that he didn't even know who Popper was (not unreasonable, as Popper was not famous at that time and had been off teaching in New Zealand). Besides, both men were so arrogant and egocentric that they were bound to rub each other the wrong way. During the course of the book, the authors happen to mention that one of them was a student of Popper- but they never reveal which one. We are left to guess. A variation on Heisenberg's uncertainty principle?	2003-05-22
US	51300959	R1SIPBQSPXCQ3R	1565123476	807905484	In the Wake of Madness: The Murderous Voyage of the Whaleship Sharon	Books	4	36	37	N	Y	Sadist On The High Seas	Joan Druett adds her name to the growing list of authors who have, in the last few years, tackled the topic of seafaring misadventure. We have had several excellent entries in this genre, including Nathaniel Philbrick's \\"In The Heart Of The Sea\\" and Mike Dash's \\"Batavia's Graveyard.\\" Joan Druett's book is not quite on the level of those two books- they are \\"richer\\" in their narrative drive and complexity- but \\"In The Wake Of Madness\\" is still a good, solid \\"read.\\" The author points out that at the time of the mutiny on the whaleship \\"Sharon,\\" people who were not on board the ship assumed that the South Sea Islanders who killed Captain Howes Norris did so because they were \\"cannibals\\" and \\"heathens.\\" The people who had direct knowledge of the events preceding the mutiny did nothing to dispel this notion- to do so would have raised questions concerning their own active or passive complicity in Norris's actions and could have damaged the careers of some highly ambitious ships' officers. It turns out that Captain Norris had, over a long period of time, systematically beaten and abused an 18 year old crew member (and apparent fugitive slave) named George Babcock. A combination of floggings and backbreaking labor finally resulted in the death of Babcock. Worse still, it appears that Norris knew, way before the final denouement, that his actions would result in Babcock's death. It was the result he was looking for. Druett speculates on the motivation(s): racism, anger/fear (Norris had had trouble keeping control over his crew on a prior voyage on a different ship), frustration (the \\"Sharon\\" was having very bad luck finding and catching whales), etc. Of course, harsh discipline was nothing unusual on board ships at the time. But Norris seems to have been especially brutal, even by 19th century standards. Babcock at one point tried to get help from his fellow crewmembers, as he feared for his life. His mates did try to protect him, before finally yielding to the authority ofthe captain and his officers. Why did the officers support the captain? We have to remember that a captain was sovereign of his ship. Going against his wishes could result in being branded a mutineer...not exactly good for your career. In any event, it appears that the South Sea Islanders who killed Captain Norris were either similarly abused or felt that, given enough time, they would suffer the same fate as Babcock. \\"In The Wake Of Madness\\" works as both an adventure story- as Mrs. Druett describes the recapture of the \\"Sharon\\" by her crew- and as something broader- as we learn a bit about the day-to-day operation of a whaling ship and of the cultural dynamics that came into play when New England whalers met Pacific Islanders. Stopping off at the islands was a bit like playing \\"Russian Roulette.\\" On some islands, the natives were very friendly and would provide women and food for trade goods (although they did have a propensity for stealing anything made of iron that wasn't nailed down). On other islands you could run into cannibals or natives who would murder the crew and steal the ship. Not infrequently, some crewmembers who felt misused would jump-ship at some friendly port-of-call and \\"go native\\" or try to \\"sign-on\\" with another whaling ship with a more easy-going captain. We also learn a little about life back home on Martha's Vineyard. The book seems a bit abrupt and frantically paced, with Mrs. Druett attempting to juggle all this in only 230 pages. Still, this is a generally well-written, interesting book, and worth your time.	2003-05-19
US	51300959	R3N4YM3SKXWFE	0385504519	998837056	Into Africa: The Epic Adventures of Stanley and Livingstone	Books	5	212	236	N	Y	The Problem With Presumption	Here's what I knew (or thought I knew) before I read this book: David Livingstone was a missionary who, after many years of trying, converted almost no Africans to Christianity. He got sidetracked into trying his luck at exploration....and didn't have much luck. He mainly wandered around, not accomplishing much. Henry Morton Stanley went looking for Livingstone as a newspaper \\"publicity stunt.\\" He had a lot of money behind him and found Livingstone without too much trouble. Later on in life he went back to Africa and debased himself by working for the notorious King Leopold of Belgium, helping to set up the infamous slave-labor colony in the Congo. He was, even before he went to the Congo, a cruel racist. Although maybe I shouldn't admit to my ignorance, that's pretty much what I \\"knew.\\" Some of the above turned out to be true, some of it didn't, as I discovered after reading this book. It is true Livingstone didn't have much luck with conversions, even though he spent a good portion of the last 30 years of his life in Africa. He was, however, a better explorer than I realized. He was the first white man to walk across Africa, doing so from east to west. From 1841-1851 he explored the deserts, rivers and lakes of Southern Africa. From 1858-1863 he explored the Zambezi river and the area to the north of the river. It is true that he didn't accomplish 2 of the main goals he had set for himself. He hoped, by his explorations, to open up the African interior to economic development which would eliminate the slave trade. This didn't happen during his lifetime. He even compromised his principles and accepted food and hospitality from Arab slave traders as his second goal became his primary goal, and even an obsession- to find the source of the Nile. He was about 600 miles too far to the south, and never found what he was looking for. Indeed, after being found by Stanley, Livingstone remained in Africa and died in pursuit of his obsession. Despite these failures, Livingstone did map quite a bit of Africa and measured the height of, and gave the English name to, Victoria Falls. Stanley, while undoubtedly a racist- he beat his porters for little or no reason- did not have an easy time finding Livingstone. As Mr. Dugard makes clear, Stanley relentlessly made his way through jungles, swamps and savannah, having to deal with crocodiles, lions, hyenas, and tsetse flies along the way. He survived bouts of malaria and dysentery, encounters with cannibals, an attempted rebellion by his men, and porters running off with essential supplies. He also wound up in the middle of a war between Arab slave traders and various African tribes. He was genuinely fond of Livingstone and didn't just stick around to say, \\"Dr. Livingstone, I presume?\\" He spent five months with Livingstone, bringing essential supplies so that Livingstone could go on with his explorations. Stanley later, in 1874, returned to Africa and circumnavigated both Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika and followed the Congo River all the way to the Atlantic. These were remarkable achievements. Do they absolve Stanley of the sin of helping to establish Leopold's nightmarish Belgian Congo? No they don't....but they were still remarkable achievements. This book works very well as an adventure story, but it is more than that. The author didn't just look at the books that Stanley and Livingstone wrote for public view. He also looked at the journals of the two men. Thus, we are privy to their most inner thoughts and disappointments. Livingstone was guilty about not having spent more time at home in England with his wife and children. (His wife was so lonely she came to Africa to join him in 1861. She died from malaria in 1862.) He also, however, despite his reputation as a \\"pure of heart\\" missionary, was very sexually active with African women. He himself estimated that he had enjoyed the favors of 300 natives. Stanley was the result of a liaison between his prostitute mother and one of her customers. He was dumped in a workhouse by uncaring relatives and was sexually abused by his fellow inmates. His journals, unsurprisingly, show a man wracked by insecurity and depression, warding off thoughts of suicide by keeping himself constantly busy. Mr. Dugard speculates that part of the appeal for Stanley in finding Livingstone (and his affection for Livingstone once they met) was his desperate need for a father figure. (Livingstone was about 30 years older than Stanley.) Considering Stanley's upbringing, this speculation does not seem far-fetched. One problem this otherwise fine book does have is that is suffers from a lack of maps. The only map in the  book is printed on the inside cover. It is ok but not really detailed, and it is awkward to get to. As most of the chapters get into a lot of detail regarding where Stanley and Livingstone are at any particular moment, it would have been much better to have more maps scattered throughout the book. In any event, after reading this excellent combination of adventure tale/ dual biography, I feel a little less ignorant than before. Not a bad thing!	2003-05-16
US	51300959	RRMFJ88TVV63F	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Civil War Civility?	Mr. Winik does a very good job of describing the events of April and May 1865...the final chase before Lee surrenders to Grant and Johnston surrenders to Sherman; the assassination and funeral of Lincoln; the capture of John Wilkes Booth; the flight and capture of Jefferson Davis; the transition to a government with Andrew Johnson at the helm; the final surrenders of the remaining Confederate armies, etc. Although there is not much new here (and how could there be?) the author breathes life into the various events and they come across as fresh and interesting. There are many nice touches: such as Grant hemming-and-hawing at Appomattox because he doesn't want to humiliate Lee. Lee eventually had to broach the subject of surrender, because Grant was reluctant to come to the point; the author takes us into the presidential box at Ford's Theater, where Abraham and Mary Lincoln are holding hands while they watch &quot;Our American Cousin&quot;; we have Sherman chatting so amiably with Joe Johnston and John Breckinridge during their surrender discussions that Sherman finally quipped, &quot;See here, gentlemen. Who is doing the surrendering, anyhow? If this thing goes on, you'll have me sending a letter of apology to Jeff Davis.&quot; However, on the negative side- because the author is dealing with familiar material and is trying to say something new, he sometimes oversteps the mark. He states that Lee and Johnston didn't have to surrender. They could have gone to the mountains or headed west, and carried on a guerrilla war &quot;for decades.&quot; Lee is given high marks for surrendering, as is Johnston. While it is undoubtedly true that a guerrilla war could have been engaged in, the author gets a bit carried away with this counterfactual. Lee and Johnston are basically given credit for not being fanatics, because considering the vast superiority of the North in men and armaments, and considering that much of the South already lay in ruins, the decision to carry on withthe fighting would not have been rational. The author gets higher marks for his argument that, generally speaking, it was amazing how the two sides reconciled after the shooting stopped- especially when you take the long view of history and look at other countries that went through the agony of revolution or civil war. While Mr. Winik is generally not shy in presenting his opinions he didn't have much to say about Sherman's &quot;March To The Sea,&quot; other than to describe the awful devastation that Sherman's army left in its wake. Mr. Winik describes the looting, shooting of civilians, and wholesale burning of urban houses, businesses,  farmhouses, crops, and destruction of bridges, railroad cars and tracks, etc. About 80% of the damage was to non-military targets. Sherman's logic was that anything goes in war, and the will of the South to fight had to be broken. Mr. Winik does not express his own opinion. He only says that historians &quot;to this day&quot; still argue about the ethics of what Sherman did. I won't be shy in expressing my opinion. Sherman was guilty of war-crimes, and if the South had won the war he would have been tried as a war criminal. (It really helps to come out on the winning side.) So, yes, Lee behaved like a gentleman at Appomattox (after doing his best to defeat a country he believed in, while fighting for a cause he didn't believe in- he was opposed to both secession and slavery) and Sherman tried to be generous with his defeated foes (after leaving countless civilians propertyless and poverty stricken). I also wanted to wince when the author stated that Jefferson Davis (who treated his slaves humanely) wasn't aware of how brutally some of his fellow slaveowners treated their &quot;property.&quot; Hence, his failure to understand the vehement Northern objections to plantation life. Oh, really? Are we really supposed to believe that a politician of Mr. Davis's stature didn't know what was going on all around him? In any event, Mr. Winik has done a fine job of describing the events of April/May 1865, but he has perhaps erred on the side of romanticism/optimism in his view of human nature.	2003-05-12
US	51300959	R13BL0U0K7OMZY	0006530737	266904324	Lost Lion of Empire: The Life of 'Cape-to-Cairo Grogan (Life of Ewart Grogan Dso (1876-1976))	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Cape-To-Cairo-To-Kenya	Parts of this book will appeal to many people. Taken as a whole, however, I'm not sure how many people will find this to be a satisfying &quot;read.&quot; The first part of the book deals with Grogan's trek from South Africa to Cairo, which was undertaken to explore the feasability of a transcontinental, albeit South-to-North, railroad route. This portion of the book is filled with lots of hunting, rivers full of crocodiles, cannibals, and tropical disease and fever. This is well-written and nicely paced and will appeal to &quot;armchair adventurers&quot; everywhere. The second part of the book, comprising about two-thirds of the total, deals with Grogan's attempts to turn Kenya into a &quot;going concern&quot; and productive outpost of the British Empire. Within this section, there's lots of political infighting between Grogan, his Kenyan detractors and British bureaucrats on the homefront. Grogan is depicted as farseeing and savvy, whilst his enemies- in and out of government- are depicted as jealous or narrowminded. Although I am not a scholar and, before reading this book, knew nothing of Grogan or the development of Kenya, my impression is that the author may be a bit too close to his subject. Grogan is portrayed as being a bit too perfect- even when he is &quot;pulling a fast one&quot; (my terminology) on his competitors, Mr. Paice can't help admiring his charm and gift for blarney. Even Grogan's penchant for womanizing (which included keeping a mistress in a separate household with their illegitimate child) is pretty much laughed off as the activity of a handsome man who was &quot;over-engined.&quot; Grogan's wife, Gertrude, is given high marks for putting up with the shenanigans and maintaining a stiff upper lip. Still, in fairness to Grogan, he had a vision for Kenya and he worked tirelessly, and often while hampered by a lethargic and/or hostile Colonial Office, to develop the economic potential of the country. So, for the reader interested in Kenya, thereare some nuggets to be found here. But I think the first part of the book won't hold much appeal for that reader, as the second part may not appeal to the reader expecting a pure adventure tale. Another problem with the book is that we don't ever feel we have a good understanding of the people around Grogan- his wife, children, mistresses, rivals, etc. The book is a bit &quot;Grogan-heavy&quot; because it concentrates almost exclusively on his thoughts and actions. However, despite these criticisms, if you sift through the pages you may find enough interesting material, as I did, to make you feel this book is worth your time.	2003-05-09
US	51300959	R3BTJ1U2RCQMQR	0140231757	555051304	Leonardo: The Artist and the Man	Books	5	201	208	N	N	The Divine Da Vinci	Serge Bramly is a man of his word. The subtitle of this book is \\"The Artist And The Man,\\" and that is what we get, in a very evenhanded account. There are many fascinating anecdotes and tidbits concerning both the work and the personality of Leonardo. My favorite story concerned the painting of \\"The Last Supper.\\" Mr. Brambly explains that Leonardo liked to base his figures on real people. He strolled the streets of Milan and sketched many faces in order to come up with the models for Christ's disciples. It was smooth sailing until he tried to find someone \\"evil\\" looking enough to base Judas on. Apparently Leonardo dragged his feet on completing the fresco for a year while he searched for \\"his Judas.\\" The prior of the convent who was keeping tabs on the notoriously slow-working Leonardo finally complained to the Duke of Milan regarding the delay. Called in front of the Duke to explain himself, Leonardo had this to say: \\"...I have been going every day to the Borghetto, where Your Excellency knows that all the ruffians of the city live. But I have not yet been able to discover a villain's face corresponding to what I have in mind. Once I find that face, I will finish the painting in a day. But if my research remains fruitless, I shall take the features of the prior who came to complain about me to Your Excellency and who would fit the requirements perfectly. But I have been hesitating a long time whether to make him a figure of ridicule in his own convent.\\" In this quote, we get an idea of both Leonardo's working method and his sense of humor. (The Duke, by the way, was delighted by this reply and took Leonardo's side in the matter.) It is impossible to convey the richness of this book in a short review, but Mr. Bramly manages to convey the richness of his subject in what, at 400 pages, is a relatively brief biography. The author discusses Leonardo's famous \\"mirror writing\\" and states that it was not an attempt to conceal what he was writing, as Leonardo's notebooks were workbooks rather than diaries. Mr. Brambly says that left-handed people commonly can write from right to left. (I am not an expert and cannot judge this assertion.). The author also discusses Leonardo's homosexuality, his proposed inventions, his forays into architecture and civil engineering, his insatiable curiosity (he performed over two dozen dissections to teach himself anatomy, as well as learning Latin and mathematics in middle-age), and even his diet (Leonardo came to believe in the sanctity of all life, not just human life, and became a vegetarian). Mr. Bramly is not blind to his subject's faults: Leonardo was to some extent lazy (he hated to get up in the morning...something many of us can identify with!); he started many projects but completed very few (he was more interested in the conception than in the completion, plus his mind tended to wander from topic to topic); and he seemed to be pretty much disconnected from \\"real life\\" and other people and lost in his dreams and work. A bonus of the book is that Mr. Bramly gives wonderful descriptions of some of the famous people whose paths crossed Leonardo's, such as Cesare Borgia and King Francois I of France. I also can't say enough good things about the quality of the translation from French to English done by Sian Reynolds. There is not one clunky sentence in the entire book. The book is also peppered with many interesting reproductions (mostly black-and-white, but a few color), including an alternate, nude, version of \\"The Mona Lisa!\\" Many sketches from Leonardo's notebooks are included, as well. I came away from this book knowing a lot more about Leonardo's work and personality. When this work was first published in Great Britain in the early 1990's it was selected as one of the best books of the year by \\"The Sunday Times.\\" It's not difficult to see why.	2003-04-28
US	51300959	R1AGOHM5GPNC5V	0684856883	66298239	To Conquer the Air : The Wright Brothers and the Great Race for Flight	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	The Wright Stuff	James Tobin has written a great book. Before I read this book the only thing I knew about the Wright brothers was that they were the first people to get a manned, heavier-than-air machine to fly, and this happened at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina in 1903. I didn't know what happened before and after, and since I didn't know anything about the brothers they were only hazy historical figures. They didn't exist as real people for me. Mr. Tobin has changed that. By the use of extensive excerpts from personal letters and interviews, both Wilbur and Orville come alive in these pages. Thomas Edison once said that inventing was 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration. The Wright brothers exemplified that. Wilbur first wrote to the Smithsonian Institution to get all of the material they had on &quot;flying machines,&quot; which obviously wasn't a great deal. The brothers started going to Kitty Hawk in 1900 and after that it was just a lot of hard work, with much trial-and-error. Finally, in 1903, they felt confident enough in the stability of their glider design that they were able to add a motor and make the &quot;historic&quot; flight. Mr. Tobin takes us much further, though, as the &quot;historic&quot; flight we all learned about in school lasted less than a minute and only took place a few feet off of the ground. The brothers realized that their invention was of use, primarily, to the military, so they had to modify things so that the plane had greater stability and could go higher and further. This involved many more practice flights. It is a tribute to Mr. Tobin's skills as a storyteller that this never gets boring. Everytime Wilbur or Orville go up we feel as though we are with them, and it feels exciting. Wilbur went to France to demonstrate to the government what the plane could do. Orville went to Virginia to show his own government the plane's capabilities. In 1909, Wilbur journeyed to New York and flew around the Statue of Liberty and up the Hudson River, between Manhattan and the Palisades. By one of those amazing coincidences of history, the Lusitania was pulling out of New York harbor and the people on board waved and cheered as Wilbur flew overhead. Of course, none of this happened in a vacuum. Mr. Tobin documents the exciting competition between the Wright brothers and Samuel Langley of the Smithsonian, Alexander Graham Bell (whose team included Glenn Curtiss), and others, to be first in the air and first to develop a plane with commercial promise. (It is also a running gag throughout the book that the French, who had pioneered ballooning, kept putting pressure on themselves to &quot;beat&quot; the Americans. Gallic pride was at stake!) The early history of flight resulted in the deaths of many pilots. It is a tribute to the scientific, methodical approach of the brothers that in the 12 years they were &quot;active in the air&quot; they only had one serious accident. Wilbur was only in his mid-forties when he died of typhoid fever in 1912. Orville lived on until 1948, but after Wilbur died Orville's flying days were over. They had been true partners, but Wilbur had been the driving force. After Wilbur died other people came along and built better planes, which could fly longer, faster and higher. But Wilbur and Orville Wright, two sober-minded, poker-faced brothers (a reporter watching them on the beach at Kitty Hawk remarked that they were so nonchalant they resembled a couple of bankers) led the way. Mr. Tobin's triumph is that he doesn't just give us the nuts-and-bolts, he also shows us the hearts and souls of two remarkable men.	2003-04-24
US	51300959	RVSC5ERKXRBKB	0375405615	952443316	Mark Twain: An Illustrated Biography	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	The Bitter And The Sweet	I wonder how many people could have led the life that Samuel Clemens did and kept their sanity. He went from riches to rags (even though it was his own fault...he spent money like it was going out of style and made some horrendous investments), which forced him, at the age of 60, into making a 10 month long physically and mentally draining around-the-world lecture tour. The tour enabled him to pay off his debts and regain his financial footing. Unfortunately, money was the least of his problems. The authors do not specifically state it, but it is clear (to me anyway) that Clemens suffered from manic-depression. At various times, and not coinciding with anything bad going on his life, he considered suicide. He had lifelong moodswings, as well as a volatile temper. (His daughters were afraid to be alone with him, as his behavior was so unpredictable. They made sure to visit him as a group.) The authors recount one incident where Clemens, angry over a missing button, opened an upstairs window and tossed all of his shirts out into the street. Saddest of all, Clemens outlived almost all of his loved ones. His beloved wife, Livy, who was almost 10 years younger than him, predeceased him, as did 3 of his 4 children. His one surviving child, his daughter Clara, suffered a nervous breakdown when Clemens was almost 70. A heavy load to bear, indeed, but somehow Clemens bore it and carried on. One thing that helped was his worldwide fame. Clemens was hungry for fame, even as a young man. He became well-known early in life, and remained famous and popular right up until he died. (He was a bit of a \\"ham.\\" He would purposely time his walks for when people were emerging from church, and would then saunter past in his trademark- pun intended- white suits.) This book is an absolutely perfect blend of narrative by the authors, liberal excerpts from Clemens's many writings, \\"guest essays,\\" and page after page of terrific period photographs. (The research done for the photographs, alone, must have been backbreaking.) The narrative and essays made this a good book. The addition of the excerpts and the photos turned it into a great book. The excerpts are not just from Clemens's well-known works, either. He was once asked to address an organization which consisted of descendants of the Puritans. The written text is reproduced in the book. Twain skewered the original Puritans for killing Native Americans and for kicking everyone who wasn't a Puritan out of Massachusetts, even though, as Clemens makes sure to emphasize, they left England under the banner of religious freedom. (You have to think that when the organization invited Clemens to speak, this wasn't quite what they had in mind.) One of the many interesting items included in the book is a list of the famous sayings \\"Mark Twain\\" supposedly uttered....but didn't. (He was so famous that it was assumed that anything clever originated with him.) Unfortunately, one of my all-time favorites was included in this list: \\"When I was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be twenty-one, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.\\" On the bright side, he DID say \\"The rumor of my death has been greatly exaggerated.\\" One caution: the excerpts will make you want to read or re-read all of Twain. I've already ordered a copy of \\"The Innocents Abroad\\" as somehow, in my youth, I missed that one. Hats off to Geoffrey Ward, Dayton Duncan, and Ken Burns for this wonderful book!	2003-04-23
US	51300959	R2JZAGLTH6NVWV	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	4	161	184	N	Y	Empirically Rigorous	I almost didn't purchase this book, because some professional reviewers denigrated it as an \\"apology\\" for the British Empire. I'm glad I didn't listen to those reviewers and, after reading the book, I'm puzzled that anyone could come to that conclusion. Professor Ferguson spends a good portion of the book detailing many of the negative aspects of the Empire- the condescending and racist attitudes, frequently, that were displayed by the British towards subject peoples; the excessive use of force (literally, overkill) in places such as Omdurman (where the British, and their Egyptian and Sudanese auxilliaries, used Maxim machine guns to mow down their Islamic fundamentalist opponents, who were generally armed with rifles and swords. The fundamentalist forces had about 35,000 men killed, while the British lost about 400.) and Amritsar, India (where, in 1919, the British forces broke up a peaceful demonstration by firing on unarmed civilians and killing 379 and injuring 1,500 of them). Professor Ferguson also does not sweep British behavior during the Boer War under the historical carpet. He discusses the concentration camps the British set up to detain the wives and children of Boer soldiers. Conditions, especially in the beginning, were horrendous and many of the women and children died from hunger and disease. (When Sir Nevile Henderson complained to Goering about the Nazi concentration camps, Goering leapt at the chance to take out a German encyclopaedia which, under the entry for concentration camp, said this: \\"First used by the British in the South African War\\"). This being said, Professor Ferguson doesn't fail to point out some of the positive accomplishments of the Empire- the introduction of free trade to areas that otherwise would have engaged in protectionism; improvement in the living standards in many of the colonial areas, due to the above and also due to British investment in underdeveloped areas; the creation of infrastructure and the introduction of democracy and Western legal principles, etc. The thing that disturbs me about some of the professional reviews of this book is the tendency to see things in black and white. Empire is bad, and that's all there is to say. Well, most things in life are not black and white. Professor Ferguson spends the majority of the book outlining the bad aspects of the Empire, and he uses maybe 25% of the book to discuss the good things. This book is analytical, well-written (Professor Ferguson has an easy, breezy, informal style and, which is always a bonus in a book written by an academic, a refreshing sense of humor), and thought-provoking. There are also many wonderful color and black-and-white photographs which complement the text nicely. The only reason I didn't give the book 5 stars is that the ending is a bit weak. The book's subtitle is \\"The Rise And Demise Of The British World Order And The Lessons For Global Power.\\" The conclusion is supposed to provide the lessons, but doesn't. Professor Ferguson makes the mistake of trying to make the book \\"relevant\\" to today. He should have left well-enough alone and stuck to just talking about the Empire. He makes the obvious point that the United States is the only nation capable today of having a position of global power equivalent to the position Britain used to hold. Fair enough. But what should the U.S. do with this power? Aye, there's the rub! Professor Ferguson doesn't really know, so he tosses in some vague generalities. He questions whether \\"...the dissemination of Western 'civilization'...can safely be entrusted to Messrs Disney and McDonald.\\" He goes on to say, \\"But it (America) is an empire that lacks the drive to export its capital, its people and its culture to those backward regions which need them most urgently and which, if they are neglected, will breed the greatest threats to its security.\\" Well, maybe we should ask some of the people in those \\"backward\\" places what THEY want. They probably would like the capital...I'mnot so sure about wanting our people and our culture. This whole subject needs a book of its own (probably many books) for a proper discussion. My key point is that Professor Ferguson does himself a disservice by tossing off comments like this, which come across as afterthoughts...especially after the clockwork, smooth analysis which flows through the rest of the book. Still, overall, this is an excellent book for anyone who wants a well-balanced and comprehensive account of the rise and fall of the British Empire.	2003-04-10
US	51300959	RLZD0S0G6QSJI	0002571889	682882942	Imperial Vanities: Three Victorians, Their Friends and Enemies	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Too Much Time In The Noonday Sun?	After reading this quite enjoyable, well-written book, you might be excused for thinking that the British Empire consisted mainly of very eccentric people....who were hyperactive, to boot. You have Samuel Baker banging his way through Ceylon and Africa with his 21 pound rifle, shooting everything in sight (that is, when he isn't killing 300 pound wild boars with his foot-long, 3 pound knife). Of course, when Sam was 32 he did stop off long enough at the slave auctions in the Balkans to buy a lovely, blonde, 17 year old Hungarian girl. This was Florence, who eventually became Sam's second wife, and partner in exploration. (Sam's first wife had died.) The upper-crust back home in England weren't too impressed by Sam's choice of helpmeet, to say the least. Then we have Sam's brother, Valentine Baker, a promising cavalry officer who ruined his career by making a pass at a woman on a train one fine day. She apparently didn't fancy him and started screaming blue murder out the train window. From the evidence, it doesn't appear that Val actually tried to \\"ravage\\" her. She testified that he touched her on the leg by the ankle and tried to kiss her. Back in Victorian times, doing that to a respectable woman was all it took to bring dishonor upon yourself. It also didn't help that Queen Victoria got wind of all this and refused to let Val continue serving with his regiment. She had a long memory and never forgave him. (One shudders to think what she would have thought of Bill Clinton's Oval Office antics.) That brings us to Charles 'Chinese' Gordon, who had a famous date with destiny in Khartoum. Gordon was by far the oddest of the lot. (He once survived stepping directly in front of a 32 pound gun in China. When the gun misfired, Gordon shrugged it off by saying that the \\"inferior races\\" didn't know how to keep their powder dry.) One wonders how anyone in their right mind could have put him in a position of authority. Just before being sent to Khartoum to try to evacuate thegarrison, the very religious Gordon had been so restless that he had been all set to go to the Congo to work for that famous humanitarian, King Leopold of Belgium. (I'm being facetious. Under the guise of bringing civilization to Darkest Africa, Leo was actually turning the Congo into his own personal slave-labor colony. Gordon was so anxious to do something....anything....that he wasn't too particular who he worked for.) Islamic fundamentalism didn't mean much to Gordon. China....Africa.....it was all the same to him. If you weren't British you were a heathen, and that's all Gordon had to know. He thought that Mohamed Ahmed (known as the Mahdi) was just some gangster who wanted to make the Sudan his own personal fiefdom. Gordon was convinced that if he could meet the Mahdi one-on-one he could straighten everything out. Needless to say, things didn't work out that way. As everyone knows, Gladstone didn't send out a relief force until it was too late. Khartoum was overrun by the forces of the Mahdi and Gordon wound up with no head. Those amazing Gordonian eyes could no longer work their magic. Actually, he may have gotten what he was looking for. A pretty good case can be made that he suffered from a martyr-complex. Many other eccentrics appear in these pages- David Livingstone, James Hanning Speke (who enjoyed, in his spare time, measuring the busts and limbs of African girls with a tape) and several who had nothing to do with exploration. One of my favorites was Lord Hatherton, who had estates in Staffordshire. In the parish church he attended, he had the pews for his family taken out and replaced with armchairs and a working fireplace. Hatherton would rattle the pages of \\"The Times\\" to indicate when he thought the sermon had gone on long enough. One disadvantage of Mr. Thompson's decision to tell the stories of, primarily, 3 people in such a short book is that, in the end, none of the men seem quite real. We see a lot of action, but not much information concerning what really made them tick. They almost come across as caricatures. Still, the book can easily be appreciated on two levels- as a rip-roaring adventure story, and as a cautionary tale regarding the limitations and responsibilities of empire.	2003-04-08
US	51300959	RALMTPJB12EV1	0195152956	664804877	April Blood: Florence and the Plot against the Medici	Books	3	29	42	N	N	Unfortunately, Not Magnifico....	This book was a disappointment. Although it is supposed to concentrate on the plot surrounding the April 1478 attempt to murder Lorenzo and Giuliano de Medici, in reality it wanders off into many other areas and loses focus. In one chapter, the author gives detailed information about the finances of the Pazzi family (the family behind the conspiracy to kill the two Medici brothers). In another chapter, Professor Martines quotes extensively from the personal letters of matriarchs of some of the leading Florentine families, regarding their attempts at matrimonial matchmaking. The author discusses other plots and political murders, unrelated to the 1478 attack, and which did not occur in Florence. He has three chapters in which he provides profiles of three people, none of whom had any connection to the 1478 plot. Professor Martines also attempts to explore the serpentine world of 15th century Italian realpolitik. We learn about the shifting alliances and chessboard maneuverings involving Florence, Milan, Genoa, Venice, the Papal States, etc. The names of many people are introduced. Quite a few are not central to the story. Bringing them into the tale serves to confuse rather than to enlighten. I still am giving the book three stars because it is worth reading. If you want to know the bare facts about who was behind the plot and why they wanted the Medici family out of power and what actions Lorenzo took against the plotters after he survived the attack, those facts are here. But because of the lack of focus and the questionable decision to include so much peripheral material, the experience of reading this book is a lot less satisfying than it could, and should, have been. It's sort of like being hungry for a nice, thick, juicy steak but after you cut away all of the fat you find yourself with just a few decent bits of meat. It's hardly worth the effort.	2003-04-04
US	51300959	R3GE0ZS9X1WXG3	0312242514	188703460	The Doctor and the Detective: A Biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Nicely Ties Together All Of The Strands	This is a solid and very readable biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. All of the elements are here: growing up poor in Edinburgh, with a disillusioned, distant and alcoholic father and a strong and loving mother; going to medical school and getting started in a medical practice; his growing success as a writer of short fiction and historical novels; his first marriage, to a woman who developed tuberculosis early on and who died in middle age; Conan Doyle's falling in love, while still married to his first wife, with Jean Leckie, the woman who became his second wife (the relationship wasn't sexual until Conan Doyle's first wife died and he had married Jean); his fascination with, and public enthusiasm for, spiritualism. Some of the information presented is well-known, such as the interest in spiritualism and Conan Doyle's growing tired very early on with writing the Sherlock Holmes stories. But I'm guessing that, unless you are a rabid Sherlockian who has read tons of material on the creation and his creator, you will find much of the information the author presents to be interesting and fresh. Mr. Booth shows the adventurous side of Conan Doyle- his early hitch on a whaling ship and another trip, as a medical officer, on board a merchant ship which travelled down the western coast of Africa. We learn about the difficulties involved for a young doctor in setting up a medical practice. You had to spend money to make money, as the practice had to look like it was flourishing even though it was just getting started. With his limited funds, Conan Doyle did a nice job of furnishing his consulation room. He had to hang up a curtain, however, so patients couldn't see into the rest of the house- which was pretty much devoid of any furniture or decoration. We learn that Conan Doyle was physically fit and an avid athlete- playing cricket, rugby, soccer, golf, etc. Mr. Booth tells us of Conan Doyle's meetings with other writers, such as Oscar Wilde, Robert Louis Stevenson, andP.G. Wodehouse. While not a fan of Wilde's unorthodox lifestyle, Conan Doyle admired the man's intellect and work, and was charmed by his personality. (Both men were wined and dined in August 1889 by the editor of \\"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine,\\" and agreed to write something for the magazine. Conan Doyle came up with \\"The Sign Of Four\\" and Wilde's entry was \\"The Picture Of Dorian Gray.\\") Mr. Booth sprinkles abundant examples of Conan Doyle's humor and with throughout the book- regarding the heat along the African coast,Conan Doyle remarked \\"(It was) hot enough to render the weight of a napkin upon your knee at dinner time utterly unbearable.\\"; and on hitting upon Reichenbach Falls as the place to kill off his famous creation, Conan Doyle wrote \\"(It was) a terrible place, and one that I thought would make a worthy tomb for poor Sherlock, even if I buried my banking account along with him.\\" Mr. Booth is very good at describing Conan Doyle's contradictions and character flaws: he was stubborn and would never admit he was in error about anything; he believed the white race to be superior to other races; he wanted to liberalize divorce laws to make it easier for women to obtain divorces, but he was vehemently against women being allowed to vote; he was extremely curious and adventurous- he embraced the newfangled motorcars when they first appeared and made an ascent in a balloon- but was very conservative in his attitude towards women ( he felt their job was to maintain the home and that they needed to be \\"protected\\") and he was horrified by any kind of modern art. Conan Doyle was very generous with his time and money. Throughout his life he wrote many letters and articles in support of causes he thought were right and on behalf of people he felt had been wronged, plus he put his bankbook where his mouth was. Many people know that Conan Doyle grew tired of writing the Holmes stories and had to have a lot of cash waved in front of his nose to convince him to bring the character back. What I didn't know, and which Mr. Booth explains, is that Conan Doyle was a prolific writer of short stories (horror, fantasy and science fiction) and historical novels. He wanted to be remembered for his historical novels- he did a lot of research and worked hard to make those books realistic. He gradually had to face the fact that posterity was going to remember him for Sherlock Holmes. (The money helped. It gave him a comfortable living and enabled him to support spiritualism and all of the other causes.) With all of the above going for it, you might wonder why I'm giving the book 4 stars rather than 5. There are 2 reasons. Although the style is fine and certainly not boring, things seem a bit hurried. An awful lot of material is crammed into 350 pages. And although we get a very good picture of Conan Doyle, the book is a bit weak on his relationships. We don't get to see much interaction with his spouses, children, friends, and colleagues. Still, this is a very good book about a man who was charismatic, energetic, funny and very interesting.	2003-04-02
US	51300959	R1YGW60QVB5N0A	0385502168	137034861	The Age of Gold: The California Gold Rush and the New American Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Ounce For Ounce...As Good As It Gets	This is the third book I've read by Professor Brands, and he just seems to get progressively better. (The other two were \\"The Reckless Decade\\" and \\"The First American.\\") He is a rare bird- a scholar who can write well for a popular audience. Before I sat down to write this review, I tried to think of any way this book could have been improved. Upon reflection, I really couldn't come up with anything. The author sets the stage by opening the book with the discovery of gold on the American River, above Sutter's Fort, in January 1848. He next writes about the people who came to California to try and make their fortune, where they came from, and how they got there. Nowadays, with transcontinental and global travel being so easy, we tend to forget how difficult it was to travel 150 years ago. Professor Brands brings the hazards to the forefront. You could go around South America via Cape Horn....if you could force your way through the severe storms, heavy seas, and gargantuan gales that stalked those latitudes and were the curse of sailing ships. (This section also gives the author the chance to talk about cruelty aboard ship. The crews consisted, frequently, of landlubbers who had been kidnapped and forced to serve. The men were often beaten in order to \\"motivate\\" them to work harder.) You could also sail to the Caribbean side of Panama, cross by land to the Pacific side, and continue to California by sea. The major drawback to this method was you stood a pretty good chance of dying from some horrible tropical fever. (On the Caribbean side, the ships would dock at a place called Chagres. People would often take out life insurance before they started on the long journey to California. Such were the odds of you catching the dreaded \\"Chagres fever\\" that the insurance companies had a \\"Chagres exclusion clause,\\" which stated that if you stayed in Chagres overnight, your policy was void.) People who made the trip across the continental United States were pretty safe until they reached the \\"jumping off\\" spots of St. Joseph and Independence in Missouri. After that, you had to worry about cholera and the climate. You could run out of provisions and you and the animals you had brought could weaken and die in the snow-covered mountains or become dehydrated and bake to death in the desert. (The seekers-of-fortune who came from Asia and Australia via the Pacific actually had the easiest trip.) In the next section of the book, Professor Brands discusses the difficulties of mining- finding a good spot became more difficult as more and more people arrived. Prices of goods were so high that it wasn't easy to find enough gold to cover your expenses. Most people went home disappointed. Depending on your attitude, you looked back with bitterness on a horrible trip and backbreaking work or you shrugged your shoulders, appreciated that you had had a unique adventure, and got on with your life. Professor Brands also discusses the various methods of mining. At first it was easy to \\"pan\\" the streams, but after lots of people were in place and the choice spots were taken, later arrivals had to dam rivers and dig deep shafts into the sides of mountains. The author also discusses the political and social aspects of \\"The Age Of Gold.\\" Many different nationalities were thrown together, friction resulted, and prejudice reared its ugly head. Native Californians, of Spanish and Mexican origin, were shunted aside, as were the Indians. People who came up from South America (mostly Chile) to stake claims were resented by American miners. The Chinese also had a tough time, with their pigtails and \\"strange-sounding\\" language and \\"odd-looking\\" written characters. The rapid increase in population and tremendous wealth generated by the gold-strikes made California unlike other areas that had been settled. California didn't have the luxury of developing slowly and of going through the process of becoming a Territory first. People pressed for statehood right away. As thiswas pre-Civil War America, that brought up the argument, in California and in Washington, as to whether California was going to be a free state or a slave state. And since California was growing so quickly and becoming so important, people also pushed for better transportation.....which led to the transcontinental railroad being built. It's all here, along with colorful and exciting narrative concerning not only the physical locations, but also talking about many of the interesting people who either explored, or helped maintain the peace, or who made their money from the mines or the railroads. (People such as John Fremont, William Tecumseh Sherman, Leland Stanford, and George Hearst- the publisher's father.) This is a great tale, and Professor Brands does a great job telling it.	2003-03-31
US	51300959	R1QZEU9UXQK1XF	0226071162	576313187	The Reckless Decade: America in the 1890s	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A Perfect Ten	H.W. Brands is one of our best popular historians, and he doesn't disappoint with this book about America in the 1890's. He starts the book with two tales that demonstrate the closing of the frontier- the final major land rush in the Oklahoma Territory, which occurred in 1893; and the fighting at Wounded Knee, in the Dakota Territory, in December 1890, which resulted in the deaths of Sitting Bull and many women and children (noncombatants) at the hands of U.S. Army cavalry troops. The Sioux Indians were left demoralized by this event. Professor Brands grabs our attention with the first sentence of the book: \\"Fred Sutton had watched the earlier rushes into Oklahoma; he had seen friends no smarter, tougher, or more discerning than himself grab homesteads; and when word came that the government in Washington was going to open up the Cherokee Strip to settlement, he determined that this time he'd get a piece of the action.\\" Later on in the chapter, the author switches from the concrete to the philosophical, telling us what thinkers such as Frederick Jackson Turner and Henry and Brooks Adams had to say about the significance of the closing of the frontier. This balance, in addition to the gripping narrative style, is what makes Professor Brands such a good writer. The book is just plain fun to read, but it is also intellectually challenging. Later chapters deal with the growth and centralization of big business (Carnegie and Rockefeller); the importance of the financier (J.P. Morgan); the urban, immigrant poor and the role of the political machines (Tammany Hall); economic downturn and the plight of farmers; racial discrimination and the different philosophies of Black American leaders on how to improve the lives of Black Americans (Booker T. Washington and W.E.B. DuBois); the political battle over the Gold Standard vs. bimetallism (the Populist party, William Jennings Bryan); and the exercise of American power abroad (the Spanish-American War and Theodore Roosevelt). Professor Brands wrote this book in the mid-1990's and he points out some parallels between the two decades- the most obvious being the tendency of people to begin looking outside the political mainstream during periods of great economic uncertainty. During the 1890's people felt under stress from industrialization, economic centralization and also from the severe depression the country was going through. Americans in the 1990's felt the heat of global competition and the uncertainties involved in the ongoing transition from a manufacturing to a more service based economy. The author gently points out some similarities. He wisely doesn't take the analogy too far. As you can see, the book is brimming over with topics and ideas, but it is always a joy to read- not least because of the many fascinating characters who are portrayed. In the section on the rise of big business, Professor Brands entertains us with the story of the competition between Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse. Westinghouse originally made his fortune by inventing the railway air brake. When he decided to branch out into electricity, Edison wasn't amused. He muttered to a colleague, \\"Tell Westinghouse to stick to air brakes.\\" Edison was working on commercializing direct current, while Westinghouse favored alternating current (which uses higher voltages). To try to influence public opinion, Edison had his technicians wire up stray cats and dogs to the higher voltages and switched on the current. Edison put out pamphlets implying that alternating current would do the same thing to people that it did to the unfortunate animals. And when Westinghouse got the contract to provide the electricity for New York State's \\"electric chairs,\\" Edison remarked that prisoners could now either be hanged or they could be \\"Westinghoused.\\" So, apparently \\"The Wizard Of Menlo Park\\" didn't spend all of his time inventing. He had a few moments left over to engage in some below-the-belt boxing!	2003-03-25
US	51300959	RD8VHDXOTV8ZM	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	sequels that do justice to the original 1 (v.g.)	This is a superb sequel to \\"Bridget Jones's Diary.\\" The characters, especially Mark, Jude and Sharon, are developed further. Bridget's mum is up to her usual antics- this time around she brings an African tribesman named Wellington home and has him stay with her and Colin. Bridget is as funny, endearing and poignant as in the first book....alternating between despair one moment and joy and hope the next....sometimes feeling she has a handle on things and at other times feeling she has no control and is at the mercy of the chaos and uncertainty of life. She is still making resolutions and breaking them. In this book, she shows her pluck by taking charge and taking action to get herself out of a Thai prison (sustained by a copy of Rudyard Kipling's \\"If,\\" given to her by Mark Darcy.) She has further journalistic adventures....the funniest being her trip to Rome where she gets to interview Colin Firth. Bridget only wants to talk about Mr. Darcy from \\"Pride And Prejudice\\" (especially the wet-shirt-in-the-lake scene) and Colin's Italian girlfriend (wouldn't he be better off with a nice, British girl?- Bridget asks). Mr. Firth would really rather talk about his current projects. The interview is hilarious. If you read it at home you will laugh out loud and if you read it in public you may have to put your fist in your mouth so you don't have people thinking you're out of your mind. Bridget is also provided with a worthy adversary in the dreaded Rebecca, a tall blonde who apparently only has one goal in life- to steal Mark from our beloved Bridget. You'll want to reach into the book and slap her silly! Excellent!	2003-03-14
US	51300959	R2X8H3W857P804	067964086X	482900418	The Renaissance: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	3	20	21	N	Y	A Renaissance Sampler	This was a tough one to call as far as how many stars to give...I was wavering between 3 and 4. The most accurate rating would probably be 3 1/2 stars. On the negative side there are two drawbacks to the book. The first is, if you have already read a few books on the Renaissance you won't find much that is new here. The second drawback is the lack of pictures- really inexcusable in a book of this kind. (That is probably the major reason why I went with 3 stars rather than 4.) The majority of the book deals with architecture, sculpture and painting. How can you not include reproductions? I realize that the publisher wanted to keep the price down, but they could have at least included a few plates....even some black and white ones would have been helpful (especially in the sections on architecture and sculpture, where color is not that essential). On the positive side, if you haven't read anything on the Renaissance this book is a good starting point. Mr. Johnson provides some historical background, and then he tells a little bit about key figures in all of the areas mentioned above, (and before he gets into the visual arts he has a good chapter on the heavyweights in the areas of literature and scholarship). Another good thing about the book is that even though it is short and Mr. Johnson has to cram in a lot of people, the book isn't written like an encyclopedia. The prose isn't dry. The author is enthusiastic and isn't afraid to express his opinions. To give you an example, Mr. Johnson includes several pages on Dante and Chaucer- to show that even though they wrote in an earlier period they were harbingers of what the Renaissance was all about...they were fascinated by individual human beings and therefore created characters who were real rather than archetypes. In discussing Chaucer's &quot;Canterbury Tales&quot; Mr. Johnson has this to say: &quot;These men and women jump out from the pages, and live on in the memory, in ways that not even Dante could contrive. There is genius here of an inexplicable kind: Chaucer is one of the four English writers- the other three being Shakespeare, Dickens and Kipling- whose extraordinary ability to peer into the minds of diverse human creatures defies rational explanation and can only be attributed to a mysterious 'daemon.'&quot; Mr. Johnson's comments are usually interesting and pertinent but he occasionally shoots from the hip and says something silly, such as the following: &quot;(Albrecht) Durer was unusually thoughtful and articulate for a painter...&quot; I could give Mr. Johnson a long list of intellectual artists, which would include Rubens, Delacroix, Degas, Van Gogh, Matisse, Duchamp, Picasso, Braque, etc. All because someone creates with paint (or music) rather than with words doesn't mean they aren't thoughtful or articulate. Fortunately, comments like this are few and far between and Mr. Johnson is usually sensible rather than silly. So, in summary, this is a good book for the reader who doesn't know a lot about the Renaissance and the pleasing style will make the reader want to learn more about the topics and people that are discussed.	2003-03-11
US	51300959	R2RP1LILCF4KVV	0802713645	547236598	A Thread Across the Ocean: The Heroic Story of the Transatlantic Cable	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Adventurous Capitalists	The subtitle for this book should have been, \\"If At First You Don't Succeed...\\" As I read the book I admired, and was amazed by, the tenacity of Cyrus Field. Although it took about 12 years and 5 attempts to finally get the transatlantic cable down and running, Field never lost sight of his goal and never gave up. He also invested hundreds of thousands of dollars of his own money back in the days when a dollar really meant something. Mr. Gordon writes, \\"To give some idea of what $200,000 meant in the 1850's, consider that $1,000 per year was enough income for a family to live a modest, middle-class life, and there were not two dozen men in all of New York City- which then had a population of over 700,000- who had a net worth of $1,000,000.\\" During the years of failure, before the final success of 1866, Field saw the money that he had invested go down the drain....along with the money of all the other investors. He made dozens of trips across the Atlantic to raise money (most of the money, equipment and technology came from Britain) and as the investors kept losing money Field had to convince them to keep the faith and to not pull the plug on the project. A lesser man would have quit. Mr. Gordon describes not only the problems of laying a submarine cable (the trial-and-error in finding the right insulating materials, the proper thickness and weight for the cable and a sufficient degree of purity for the copper wire; dealing with the weather- one storm lasted over a week and nearly capsized one of the cable-laying ships; trying to recover a cable that had snapped and was resting on the ocean floor...two miles under the surface), he also describes the preparatory work well. Besides raising lots of money, Field had to arrange for cable to be placed across a considerable stretch of Newfoundland (through mountainous and uninhabited terrain) and under the Cabot Strait to Cape Breton Island. Mr. Gordon makes it very clear that Cyrus Field, although he was the organizing force, had plenty of help. The author provides intriguing character sketches of many people who either provided financial or scientific help. We learn about Samuel F.B. Morse, whose main contribution was of course his famous telegraphic code (and who was a well-known artist before he became famous for his invention); Peter Cooper, the New York entrepreneur who invested in the project (and, still smarting from his own lack of a formal education, who started the Cooper Union school in New York- a tuition-free school that working men could attend at night in order to further themselves); William Thomson (Lord Kelvin), whose work with electrical currents got him interested in telegraphy. Because of the large distance the transoceanic cable would cover, Thomson advocated using particularly pure copper for the core and he also suggested using a large-diameter core to reduce resistance. He also invented an instrument to detect very weak electrical signals. Thomson was both a brilliant theoretical and practical physicist, of whom Arthur C. Clarke wrote, \\"If one took half the talents of Einstein, and half the talents of Edison, and succeeded in fusing such incompatible gifts into a single person, the result would be rather like William Thomson.\\" These are just a few of the interesting people whose contributions Mr. Gordon discusses. Money, creativity, technology, vision, willpower and lots and lots of elbow grease all came together to make the cable a reality. Mr. Gordon does a fine job of putting all of the elements together (in just 200 pages) to form a coherent and compelling narrative.	2003-03-10
US	51300959	R1WD76UX9JUH7O	0060194766	580560480	Empire: How Spain Became a World Power, 1492-1763	Books	5	49	66	N	N	The Reign Explained	Mr. Kamen begins his book with the following lines of Bertolt Brecht: &quot;The young Alexander conquered India. All by himself? Caesar beat the Gauls. Didn't he even have a cook with him?&quot; The answers are obvious. Mr. Kamen asks a different question: Who built the Spanish Empire? The answer to that question seems obvious, also....the Spanish, right? But Mr. Kamen spends the next 500 pages showing us that the obvious answer, in this case, is the wrong answer. In a dazzling display of erudition, covering events in Granada, North Africa, Italy, the Spanish Netherlands, the Caribbean, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, etc., the author reveals that the Spanish Empire was built and maintained with the help of the people of many nations- that it was a true &quot;multinational enterprise.&quot; Mr. Kamen also shows that rather than the Empire being created by Spain, Spain was created by the Empire- for, at the starting point of the book, 1492, there really was no such entity as Spain. Like several European countries of the time, such as Italy and Germany, Spain consisted of many geographical units- each with its own language and/or culture, and people felt a loyalty to that particular area rather than to the larger abstraction called Spain. Only after the Empire developed and the language of the largest geographical area, Castile, became the language of Empire did people start to think of themselves as belonging to something bigger than the particular region they lived in. Mr. Kamen also points out that the population of Spain (which was much less than that of France or England) was never great enough to provide the quantity of soldiers needed to support the far-flung Empire. Where did this Empire come from, though? When Ferdinand of Aragon died in 1516 the thrones of Castile and Aragon passed to his grandson, the archduke Charles of Habsburg (known to us as Charles V). Charles was born in Ghent and raised in the Netherlands. In 1520 he was crowned Holy Roman Emperor. Besides Spain, his responsibilities included (from his Burgundian inheritance) the Netherlands and (from his Habsburg inheritance) also Austria, Hungary, Naples, Sicily and the continent of America. So, the Empire started by inheritance rather than by conquest. But, to maintain what already existed and to, later on, &quot;branch out,&quot; Charles and later rulers had access to the people and resources of these various possessions. Thus, most of the soldiers were Italians, Belgians, Germans, etc. with the addition of mercenaries, such as Swiss troops, when needed. As Castile didn't have the financial resources necessary to handle the responsibilities that went along with administering these areas, most of the financing was provided by the bankers of Milan, Genoa, Amsterdam, etc. When the Empire expanded to encompass the Caribbean, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, etc., it had to rely on native peoples, and African slaves, for manpower. The Spanish didn't have the muscle to conquer and control these vast areas and had to rely on cooperation, usually, rather than coercion. Fortunately for the conquistadors, native tribes were usually at war with one another and some of them were only too willing to form alliances with the Spanish in order to defeat powerful enemies, such as the Aztecs or Incas. Even so, the areas under Spanish control were usually not extensive, as they still didn't have enough manpower to control large regions. Tribes that were hostile to the Spanish would simply go elsewhere and the two sides would generally just stay clear of one another. These arrangements also existed in the American Southwest. In the Philippines, again, the Spanish presence was so slight that they had to depend on native Filipinos for labor and on outsiders, such as the Chinese, in order to maintain a trading network. Mr. Kamen is particularly fascinating when he helps us to follow the &quot;money trail.&quot; The huge amounts of silver mined in Mexico and Peru went both west (to the Philippines and, ultimately, to China) to pay for trade goods and east (to the Italian and Dutch bankers, and to many places all over Europe) to pay off soldiers and loans- and to buy the goods that people in Spain desired but couldn't produce themselves. It is interesting to note that the Spanish even found it necessary to have most of their ships manufactured in other countries. So, the vast amounts of silver did not end up in the coffers of Spain, but went towards &quot;growing&quot; (in modern parlance) the economies of many countries. Mr. Kamen notes the irony that when the Empire started to decline in the last half of the 17th century, Spain's enemies had to be careful not to let her fall too far, lest they drag themselves down with her! I don't, however, want to make this book sound like an economics treatise. Mr. Kamen's book is intended for the general reader and although he uses statistics to support his arguments he never loses sight of the human element. He talks about the cultural aspects of the Empire- how Spain expected the other countries she dealt with to learn Castilian, while not even the Spanish diplomats (in most cases) would bother to learn the languages of the other countries; how the people of other countries were eager to read Spanish literature but how the Spanish were very insular and not much interested in other countries (again, this is generally speaking). The human touch is present in many places as Mr. Kamen gives us excerpts from the narratives of diplomats, soldiers, missionaries, etc. I found I had to read slowly, not because the book had an awkward style (quite the contrary- the prose is often elegant) but because the ideas being presented were new to me and also because the book was so wide-ranging in time, space and content. The book represents a lifetime of learning and thinking by the author and it is a very rewarding experience for the reader.	2003-03-04
US	51300959	R28VSOMXVQSL3H	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	27	33	N	Y	A Beautifully Constructed Patchwork	If you read \\"Isaac's Storm,\\" you have some idea of Mr. Larson's writing ability. Still, that book did not prepare me for this experience. With \\"The Devil In The White City\\" the author has moved the bar up a notch. He has several major themes and a few minor ones and he succeeds in meshing everything together seamlessly. First, we have the story of the Chicago World's Fair of 1893. Mr. Larson gives us the background, explaining the competition between various American cities that lobbied Congress for the right to hold the fair. New York, Chicago, Washington D.C. and St. Louis all wanted the fair. (The pressure was on to outdo the Paris Exposition Universelle of 1889.) The \\"upper-crust\\" of Chicago was especially anxious to prove to New York City that Chicago was much more than a place where animals were slaughtered and butchered. They wanted to demonstrate that Chicago had \\"class\\" and culture. Once Chicago won the competition to hold the fair, the race was on to design something spectacular and to get it built by the deadline that had been set. Mr. Larson introduces us to Daniel Burnham, the fair's director of works, and brings us into the offices of Burnham and the other architects and details the difficulties involved in getting such a diverse group of people, some with very large egos, to cooperate with one another. The author provides crisp character studies of Burnham, his partner John Root, Louis Sullivan and other famous architects, as well as Frederick Law Olmsted, who was eventually convinced to come on-board, despite being around 70 years old, to do the landscape architecture. Mr. Larson explains the physical details of putting the fair together and the bureaucratic jungle that Burnham had to hack his way through in order to accomplish his goal. The author tells us about some of the products that were introduced or popularized at the fair, such as Juicy Fruit gum, Cracker Jack, Aunt Jemima's pancake mix and Shredded Wheat (\\"shredded doormat, some called it).One of the many things Burnham had to worry about was to come up with something to \\"out-Eiffel, Eiffel\\" as Gustave Eiffel's tower had amazed the world when it was \\"unveiled\\" in Paris in 1889. Mr. Larson has a lot of fun with some of the crackpot ideas that were suggested to Burnham....one of which was to build a complex set of towers-within-towers, which could be telescoped to expand and contract at will. The inventor suggested putting a restaurant at the top but, Mr. Larson writes, \\"... possibly a bordello would have been more apt.\\" As you can see, the story of the fair could easily have been a subject for an entire book, but Mr. Larson chose to also tell the story of Henry Holmes, the charming serial killer who operated just outside the confines of the fair. Details of his background are provided, and we are brought deep into his hellish world and are shown how he enchanted, killed and disposed of his victims...who were usually young women, but also included small children. Holmes had big, blue eyes and when talking to women he would always maintain eye contact and appear to be fascinated by what they were telling him. He would establish intimacy by touching them on the arm. But he also had a personality that could win over men, as well as women. He was cultured and soft-spoken and never lost his temper, even when under extreme pressure. He was a gifted liar. In addition to his \\"skills\\" as a killer, he was able to buy things without paying for them....managing to put creditors off for months and years because they not only believed his lies, but also just couldn't help liking him. Again, Mr. Larson manages to flesh out this portion of the book by bringing some of Holmes's victims to life for us...they are more than just caricatures. The author did a lot of legwork and dug deeply into the primary sources. Extracts from numerous personal letters are provided and people who were later interviewed by newspaper reporters and detectives are quoted. This brings such anintensity to the book that we are happy to have the story of the fair in counterpoint. We are allowed to \\"come up for air\\" in alternating chapters. Too much of Holmes at one time would be too much to handle. Finally, if you read \\"Isaac's Storm\\" you know that Mr. Larson has a true storyteller's gift. His prose is richly descriptive. One of my favorite sections in the book is where Mr. Larson writes about a meeting of architects in an office building known as the Rookery: \\"As the light began to fade, the architects lit the library's gas jets, which hissed like mildly perturbed cats. From the street below, the top floor of the Rookery seemed aflame with the shifting light of the jets and the fire in the great hearth.\\" I love the imagery, and the use of the word \\"mildly\\" is a great touch. With \\"The Devil In The White City\\" you get two great tales, written with beautiful attention to physical detail and with the subtle and nuanced psychological portraits usually found in really fine fiction.	2003-03-03
US	51300959	R1MZUP8MU0JZAX	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Safety-Matches	I hate to say it, but it seemed to me that in this novel Nicholson Baker was merely going through the motions....happy to repeat the formula that worked for him in \\"The Mezzanine\\", but showing a lot less creativity this time. That's not to say that \\"A Box Of Matches\\" is a bad book- it's not. It's enjoyable in a \\"passing the time\\" sort of way and you'll get a few chuckles. The book won't stay with you, though. Where \\"The Mezzanine\\" had truly remarkable 1-2 page footnotes on things such as straws, staplers and ice cube trays (remarkable for the author's powers of observation as well as for his sense of humor), this new book has sitcom-silly humor concerning things like belly-button lint, vomit and the subtle nuances of a man trying to urinate with accuracy in the middle of the night with no lights on. It's not all like that, but there's enough cheap humor to leave a bad taste in your mouth. We know that Nicholson Baker can do better than this, and I hope he is a bit more thoughtful the next time around and makes a return to top form.	2003-02-24
US	51300959	R12NKR22EPFJG9	0375504176	878572896	By the Sword: A History of Gladiators, Musketeers, Samurai, Swashbucklers, and Olympic Champions	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Try Parrying That, Rousseau!	This is a very enjoyable book on \\"swordsmanship\\" through the ages, with fascinating historical tidbits on the equipment and accoutrements, and many exciting, funny (and horrific) anecdotes concerning fencers and duellists. The book has many wonderful footnotes, which alone almost justify the purchase price. Here, for example, is one on armor: \\"It was never called 'a suit of armor,' a phrase that arose only about 1600, but always 'harness.' The expression 'he died in harness' does not mean that a man was, at death, doing his job like a horse, but that he was wearing full armor. 'Armed' originally meant wearing armor- not carrying a weapon.\\" In another footnote in the section on dueling, Mr. Cohen comments favorably on the Greenland Inuits manner of dueling: When a Greenlander considers himself to have been insulted, he challenges the offending party to a \\"duel of wits.\\" Each man, supported by seconds, composes a satirical song. The songs are sung in front of an audience, which acts as a jury and votes for a winner. After that, the matter is considered to be settled and the men must be friendly towards one another. (This is certainly a lot more civilized and a lot less deadly than the traditional duel!) The book covers every area you could possibly want to know about- there are sections on knights, duellists, samurai, musketeers, swordplay in the movies, Olympic competitors, sword manufacture, injuries, etc. In the section on samurai Mr. Cohen mentions that it was common practice for the warriors to test the sharpness of their new blades by hacking up the corpses of criminals who had been executed! The more corpses you could chop up before having to stop to sharpen the blade, the better the weapon. In the section on the various types of blades, the author explains that the curved weapon known as the scimitar was invented by the horsemen of the Near East. While fighting from horseback it was much easier to swing your arm in an arc and slash away than it was to try to jab someone with a straight blade- hence, the advantages of a long, curved blade. In the section on the movies, Mr. Cohen talks about the sequence in \\"The Empire Strikes Back\\" where Darth Vader fought Luke Skywalker. Real swords were used, made with carbon-fiber blades, painted with reflective paint to simulate laser light. The Darth Vader costume was so bulky and restrictive, with poor visibility due to the helmet, that the filmmakers were concerned that Mark Hamill (who was wearing no protective clothing) could be injured if the sword sequences were done with a regular stuntman. So, they brought in an expert swordmaster- Bob Anderson, who had been a British professional champion and British national coach. The section on fencing injuries is not for the squeamish, as Mr. Cohen talks about the dangers of broken blades and the rather unpleasant experience of having a sword lodged in your throat or thrust through your eye. The reason I gave the book 4 stars rather than 5 is that I felt the book could have been a bit shorter- some of the sections ran on a bit longer than necessary and could have been \\"tightened up\\" with better editing. Also, the last 200 pages or so, which is about 40% of the book, dealt with Olympic fencing, modern competition and coaches, etc. It may be a sign of my preference for the earlier historical material, but since the book is supposed to be a history of all aspects of swordsmanship I thought this was too much space to devote to just one area of the subject. Still, as you can tell from what I've mentioned previously, this book covers a lot of ground and is an interesting (as well as just a plain fun-to-read) book. I probably should end by mentioning the title of my review. It is an exact quote of what the revolutionary judge said to Augustin Rousseau, fencing master to the royal family, when he sentenced poor Mr. Rousseau to the guillotine in 1793!	2003-02-24
US	51300959	R11DLSKROHBBZP	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Filippo's Dome Vs. Lorenzo's Doors	This is another great read from Mr. King. A week or two ago I finished his wonderful &quot;Michelangelo And The Pope's Ceiling&quot; and at that point decided I'd have to read &quot;Brunelleschi's Dome&quot;. Over the past year or so I'd seen &quot;Brunelleschi's Dome&quot; in various bookstores and I'd skimmed through the pages- never buying it because I thought it looked too technical. I was put off by the various technical illustrations and thought, &quot;Oh, this is really a book for an architect or engineer&quot;. But I was wrong. While there is no denying that the technical aspects are a major part of the book, the illustrations are very useful in helping the lay reader to understand the ingenious solutions that Brunelleschi came up with to overcome the numerous technical difficulties involved in the construction of such a large dome. By going into the nitty-gritty of the construction process, Mr. King allows us to appreciate Filippo's accomplishment. After all, this was a man who was a goldsmith and clockmaker- not an architect! And even though the book is under 200 pages in length, Mr. King manages to include a lot of interesting information other than the material which concerns the construction process. We learn about the lives of the masons who worked on the dome- how many days they worked (only about 200 per year, actually. They had off Sundays and religious feast days, which came about once a week. They also couldn't work in bad weather); what they ate and drank (surprisingly, although they were a couple of hundred feet above the ground they drank wine! Considering water quality at the time, wine was considered healthier. Florentines also believed that it &quot;improved the blood, hastened digestion, calmed the intellect, enlivened the spirit, and expelled wind&quot;. Mr. King adds that wine &quot;might also have given a fillip of courage to men clinging to an inward-curving vault...&quot;!). Fillipo was very safety-conscious. Because of his precautions, only one man died during the 26 years Brunelleschi was in charge of the project. A good thing.....these were the days before workers' compensation and survivors' benefits! Another interesting theme of the book is the rivalry between Filippo and Lorenzo Ghiberti. Years earlier, Ghiberti had bested Brunelleschi in the contest to see who would be awarded the commission to cast and put up the bronze doors for the Baptistery of San Giovanni. Ghiberti won that competition. This time around Brunelleschi came up with the winning design. However, Ghiberti was still involved in &quot;The Dome&quot; project and there was no love lost between the two men. There was a lot of nasty backbiting behind the scenes of the &quot;this guy doesn't know what the heck he's doing!&quot; variety. Despite the fact that Ghiberti's baptistery doors are considered to be an artistic masterpiece (and were recognized as such even back then- even the persnickety Michelangelo marveled at the workmanship) the following anecdote will give you some idea of the ill-will between the two men: Lorenzo, who was generally an astute businessman and was always on the lookout for good places to put his money, had bought a farm in the hills above Florence. Mr. King writes, &quot;As the farm, called Lepriano, did not prove a successful investment, Lorenzo was forced to sell it. Years later Filippo was asked what he thought was the best piece of work Lorenzo had ever done, to which he replied- &quot;Selling Lepriano&quot;. If we add &quot;comedian&quot; to his long list of accomplishments, we see that Filippo Brunelleschi was indeed a true &quot;Renaissance Man&quot;!	2003-02-12
US	51300959	R2P6COTQMJASTI	B00007CWQL	467268065	Disaster! The Great San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Earthquake, Wind And Fire...	The format that Mr. Kurzman chose for this book works very well. The book is only about 250 pages long and is divided into 41 brief chapters. Mr. Kurzman darts back and forth, telling you about what is happening to various people that he has chosen to zero in on. For the most part, these are \\"just common people\\" but he also tells you about Enrico Caruso and John Barrymore, who happened to be in the city at the time of the earthquake and fire. Caruso and Barrymore actually provide some comic relief from the tragic events described throughout most of the book. Caruso was supposed to have gone to Naples to perform, but went to San Francisco with the Metropolitan Opera Company instead. He had heard frightening tales about the \\"wild west\\" and so he bought a gun, learned how to use it, and kept it concealed under his clothing- \\"just in case\\"! Mount Vesuvius erupted at this time and Caruso thanked his lucky stars that he had chosen to go to San Francisco instead....well, he thanked his lucky stars for awhile, anyway. Barrymore had signed on to make a theatrical tour of Australia. After he thought about it, he regretted this decision and even after the earthquake hit he spent most of his time hoping he'd miss the boat to Australia. But, again, the book mostly describes the destruction of property and the loss of lives that accompanied the earthquake and fire. The rapid cutting from chapter to chapter effectively recreates the confusion and panic that enveloped the city. Mr. Kurzman widens the scope of the book to include information about political corruption, which contributed to the devastation. For example, the chief of the fire department had been pushing for new equipment but the mayor wasn't interested in spending money on something that couldn't provide him with kickbacks. Additionally, construction contractors tried to cut corners by using substandard mortar, which increased the number of buildings that just disintegrated during the earthquake. Mr. Kurzman writes about the people who charged vastly inflated prices for food and transportation during the crisis, and he also reports on the members of the militia who looted and even murdered when they were supposed to be upholding the law. Desperate homeowners, who knew that insurance wouldn't cover damage caused by earthquakes, set fire to their own homes when they began to be fear that Mother Nature wouldn't do the job herself. One image that has remained with me is of the 3 story hotel that collapsed into a huge crack in the street. The bottom 2 stories wound up underground and many people drowned in the water pouring out of broken water mains. Only the people on the 3rd floor, now at street level, could crawl to safety. Despite advances in construction and fire prevention and containment, could anything nearly this bad ever happen again? Unfortunately, we may find out. Mr. Kurzman quotes geologists who estimate that a quake of this magnitude could be expected to occur in the SF Bay area approximately every 60-100 years. 2006 will be the 100th anniversary of the great fire and quake...	2003-02-10
US	51300959	R241KTCUT073XU	0802138373	798525622	Mistress to an Age: A Life of Madame de Stael	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	The Female Unique	I've always loved reading about European history, and several times over the years I've read about the famous salon of Madame de Stael. However, none of the books ever said anything except that it was a meeting place for the great intellects of the time and that Madame de Stael was a brilliant conversationalist. I wanted to know more about this woman, and was very happy to come across this biography by J. Christopher Herold. I just finished the book, and can say without hesitation that it's one of the best biographies I've ever read. It reads like a novel; indeed, Mr. Herold has the insight into character of a great novelist. Additionally, he writes well and is extremely witty. He is not blind to the faults of his subject. Actually, her faults probably outweighed her positive traits. She was remarkably selfish. Her needs were the only thing that mattered. Everyone had to be at her beck and call. She was also extremely manipulative. When one of her numerous lovers would threaten to break off with her she would threaten to kill herself or find some other way to make them so guilty that they would come back. She was fickle. She would write to one man and tell him that her life revolved around his love. Of course, at the same time she might be writing to two or three other men, telling them the same thing! Despite her reputation as a staunch foe of Napoleon, she could sometimes put her self-interest ahead of principle. She was willing to turn her head the other way and stop criticizing Napoleon when she thought that Bonaparte, as a quid pro quo, would be willing to repay some money that the government had owed her father. One of the difficulties in remaining open-minded concerning Madame de Stael's intellectual achievements is that her rather unruly and pathetic personal life tends to color one's judgement. At her home in Switzerland she surrounded herself with various intellectuals who were either past lovers, current lovers, or those hoping to be future lovers. The scenario played out like a Marx Brothers movie, with Madame de Stael as the Margaret Dumont character. Everyone lived in the same house, yet when it came to dealing with feelings rather than with intellectual topics everyone communicated by letter rather than by discussion. Everyone engaged in histrionics- there was much swooning and talk of suicide. One man, August Schlegel, in a letter which is reproduced in the book, promised to be Madame de Stael's willing slave. Some lovers, such as Benjamin Constant, would break free but when summoned  by Germaine would crawl back like a whipped dog. The home of Madame de Stael was a bouillabaisse of the debased. One thing that Mr. Herold can never satisfactorily explain is how Germaine was able to exert this gravitational grip on the men in her orbit. Despite having flashing eyes and an ample bosom, she was not attractive. Mr. Herold tells us that she had superhuman energy and was a brilliant conversationalist. Perhaps that is where the problem lies......we can't be present at the conversations, and Madame de Stael lived in the days before radio and newsreels. But, somehow, she attracted the \\"best and the brightest\\" of her day, and that was enough to worry Napoleon and cause Germaine's exile from Paris. One amusing thing about Madame de Stael is that she was always tongue tied in Napoleon's presence. Mr. Herold relates a story concerning one time when Germaine was invited to attend a function where Napoleon would be present. She vowed she would be ready for the occasion and prepared answers for every possible question. Unfortunately, on the big night Napoleon took one look at her low-cut dress and merely remarked that is was obvious she must have \\"fed\\" her own children when they were babies. Alas, Germaine once again didn't know what to say. She did get her revenge years later when Napoleon's second wife gave birth to a male heir, the King of Rome. When asked to say something \\"nice\\", Germaine thought a moment and said, \\"I hopethey find a good wetnurse!\\" Score one for Madame de Stael....	2003-02-06
US	51300959	R2P3C2UEX6W8CP	0300072937	998856302	Velazquez: The Technique of Genius	Books	4	21	33	N	Y	Ouch! There's That "G" Word Again...	As other reviewers have mentioned, this book has many wonderful reproductions, including a lot of \\"extreme close-ups\\" (if you'll allow me to lift an expression from the movie \\"Wayne's World\\"!). The close-ups are great...you can see details of how Velazquez achieved certain effects- such as concentrated spots of pigment to represent the glitter of jewelery, or applying a transparent black \\"wash\\" over the white pages in a \\"book\\", to give the impression of writing in a book. Additionally, Professor Brown provides a nice biographical sketch of Velazquez in the first 20 pages of the book, and he writes very well indeed. The commentary that accompanies the plates contains a lot of fascinating historical information- we learn a lot about the \\"court\\" of Philip IV, the roles of dwarves and jesters, etc. The author goes into the symbolism included in the paintings- for example, the importance of showing the king in control of a horse (which implies he is a good ruler as well as a good horseman). One of the most fascinating plates is the portrait of Mariana of Austria, who was Philip's second wife. Professor Brown explains that Philip's first wife, and his only son, had died and the king needed to remarry and produce a male heir. Unfortunately, Mariana was Philip's niece. As you might expect, the only surviving male heir of their marriage, Charles II, proved incapable of ruling and also of having any children of his own. With his death, the Habsburg dynasty of Spain came to an end. But the physical act of painting the picture also ties into this sad story. Velazquez was a very \\"economical\\" painter (some might say lazy). He wasn't very productive, and he also didn't like to waste canvasses that he had worked on! In this case, he had started a canvas of Philip IV. The physical resemblance between Philip and his niece was so great that the artist was able to paint Mariana's face over Philip's. In close-up, Professor Brown even shows how you can see where Velazquez covered up thearea on the upper lip which had contained the king's mustache! Many of the plates have similar interesting bits of information contained in the accompanying text. I felt that the book only deserved 4 stars rather than 5 for two reasons- after awhile, some of the technical information becomes boring for the lay reader....too many descriptions of the various pigments used in the \\"ground\\" layer of each painting and of the sizes of the additional strips of canvas added to the paintings, for example. The second reason is that Professor Brown is a little too free with the word \\"genius\\". He claims that Velazquez was capable of doing things that other major artists weren't able to accomplish. I'm not qualified to say whether or not Velazquez was a genius but, in general, I think the word is overused. The author fails to explain WHY Velazquez was a genius, and what exactly he could do that other important artists couldn't. Still, this is a fine book, with a very nice mixture of beautiful reproductions and lively, informative text.	2003-02-05
US	51300959	R138D628PLGOGV	0691006784	748120532	The Italian Renaissance	Books	4	65	69	N	N	Includes Leonardo's 10 Year Guarantee!	I sometimes get a bit nervous when I buy a book written, supposedly, for the general public by an academic. Is the book going to be written in &quot;normal&quot; English, or am I going to be bombarded by jargon and a clunky style? Happily, Peter Burke appears to believe in &quot;plain-speaking&quot;. He also has a sense of humor, which helps. Additionally, he doesn't go off the deep end when coming to conclusions. He is prudent and cautious. If he can't say something definitive, if statistical or other types of evidence just aren't there, he isn't afraid to tell you so. Mr. Burke attempts to explain why the Renaissance happened in Italy and why it started when it did. This leads to the importance of the city-states, such as Florence, Milan, Venice, etc. Artists and sculptors oftimes were the children of craftsmen, and the city-states were populated by many craftsmen. Humanists and scientists were usually the children of &quot;professional&quot; people, and were educated at universities. Again, professionals and universities tended to be found in or near urban centers. Why did Italy have so many city-states? Because, during the period of the Italian Renaissance, Italy was a natural trade center.....right between the Middle East and Northern Europe. This created wealth, which led to the city-states, which also led to new sources of patronage, as the new merchant class looked for ways to spend their money and impress each other. When the Atlantic trade routes opened, and also after the Portuguese led the way around the Cape of Good Hope, Italy lost its place as the &quot;hinge&quot; of trade. Of course, I am greatly simplifying Mr. Burke's arguments, as they are much more complex and nuanced. But, I think I am giving you the general drift. In any case, what makes the book really interesting is that Mr. Burke grounds his theories in the everyday. He talks very specifically about painters, sculptors, architects, musicians, writers, etc. He tells you how they got their training, who they worked for and who called the shots......patron, artist, or both. The &quot;case histories&quot; are both fascinating and funny. Some examples? &quot;More precise evidence about the relative importance of patrons and artists and the expectations of both parties is provided by the scores of surviving contracts....Contracts often specified that the materials employed be of high quality.....Leonardo's contract for &quot;The Virgin Of The Rocks&quot; gives a ten-year guarantee; if anything was to need repainting within that period, it was to be at the expense of the artist. One wonders if Leonardo gave a similar guarantee in the case of his flaky &quot;Last Supper&quot;. (I can just see the author delivering this line in a lecture, with a deadpan expression!) This was also a time when the status of the artist was in flux. Before the Renaissance the artist was considered to be just another craftsman in the employ of a &quot;great&quot; man or lady. But as the city-state grew in importance, and as the merchant and craftsman grew in importance, the status of the artist started to change. In the period of change, the artist looked for reasons why he should be considered to be &quot;high-class&quot;. To quote the author: &quot;Another point in favor of the high status of painting, and one which reveals something of Renaissance assumptions or mentalities, was that the painter could wear fine clothes while he was at work. As Cennini put it: 'Know that painting on panel is a gentleman's job, for you can do what you want with velvet on your back.' And Leonardo: 'The painter sits at his ease in front of his work, dressed as he pleases, and moves his light brush with the beautiful colours...often accompanied by musicians or readers of various beautiful works.' &quot; As the person actually doing the creating started to become more important and independent, what the patron began looking for could be rather amusing. One nobleman, who was looking for a &quot;court musician&quot; and had narrowed the choice down to two men, picked the less talented man- because he was both cheaper and he would compose music &quot;on demand&quot;. The other fellow only composed when he felt like it! The book is filled with many concrete examples such as the ones I have mentioned, which makes it very enjoyable indeed....although Mr. Burke does also mix in some statistics, where appropriate, to allow the book to stand on its own two feet academically. The book also branches off into interesting little side areas; the change in subject matter over the course of the Renaissance; the incorporation of allegories which were meant to have poliical overtones; who taught the classically untrained artists about mythology so they would know enough to do history paintings?; censorship of the arts- on one occasion Veronese was asked to explain &quot;why he had included in a painting of 'The Last Supper' what the inquisitors called 'buffoons, drunkards, Germans, dwarfs and similar vulgarities'. &quot; If you are at all curious about the Renaissance, do yourself a favor and get yourself a copy of this very good book.	2003-01-29
US	51300959	R1CRCHWTBO6H8B	0802713955	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	112	114	N	N	The Misanthrope And The Warrior Pope	Ahhh.....remember Charlton Heston as Michelangelo- all alone, on his back- painting the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? Well, in this very informative and enjoyable book, Ross King quickly clears up those two major misconceptions. Michelangelo was not on his back: the scaffolding was placed 7 feet below the ceiling. Michelangelo painted while standing, reaching overhead, with his back arched. And, he had plenty of help in his glorious enterprise. Michelangelo took on the project with a great deal of reluctance. What he had really been excited to do was the job Pope Julius II had originally had in mind: the sculpting of the Pope's burial tomb. For Michelangelo considered himself to be a sculptor rather than a painter. Though originally trained, in his early teens, as a painter, he had devoted himself almost entirely to sculpting in the nearly 20 year period which had elapsed between his training and receiving the summons from Pope Julius II to begin work on the Sistine Chapel. Additionally, Michelangelo had never before painted a fresco, which is a very tricky process involving painting on wet plaster. (He had once started preparatory work on a fresco project where he was supposed to go &quot;head to head&quot; with Leonardo. Alas, that project never came to pass!) So, Michelangelo did what any sensible person would do...he hired as assistants artists who had prior experience doing frescoes. Thus begins the fascinating tale of the four year project. Along the way we learn of Renaissance rivalries- Michelangelo had once taunted Leonardo da Vinci in public for having failed in his attempt to cast a giant bronze equestrian statue in Milan. Leonardo gave as good as he got: &quot;He claimed that sculptors, covered in marble dust, looked like bakers, and that their homes were both noisy and filthy, in contrast to the more elegant abodes of painters.&quot; There was also the rivalry between Raphael and Michelangelo. The two artists couldn't have been more different- Raphael,handsome, charming, well-mannered and sociable (and a notorious connoisseur of beautiful women); Michelangelo- squat nosed and surly, pathologically suspicious, seemingly uninterested in anything unrelated to his art. Raphael was at work on a fresco in the Pope's library, in another section of the Vatican, at the same time Michelangelo was working on the Sistine Chapel. One of the most interesting parts of the book occurs when the ceiling is halfway completed. All the scaffolding was removed so that the Pope could examine the work to date. This was also the first time that Michelangelo could get an idea of how the ceiling would look from the floor of the chapel. He is said to have been shocked at how small his figures looked, and when he started work on the second half of the ceiling he decreased the number of figures portrayed but increased their size by an average of four feet. It is also said that at this time Raphael, realizing how much more public and prestigious the Sistine Chapel project was than his own assignment in the Pope's library, lobbied to be allowed to do the second half of the ceiling. Of course, that never came to pass. Mr. King manages to incorporate an amazing amount of material into such a relatively small book: We learn about the complexities of fresco painting, especially on a concave surface; what materials the pigments were made of and the processes involved in making them; Michelangelo's lack of interest in adding realistic landscapes to the backgrounds of his compositions (he considered landscape painting to be an inferior form of art); his sense of humor- in one of the tableaus he has a character &quot;making the fig&quot; at another character (an Italian equivalent of giving someone the finger). The author also shows us the difficult relationships Michelangelo had with his father and brothers (they were always hitting him up for money or trying to get him to use his influence to get them jobs, etc.). And, as a change-of-pace, punctuating the entire book we have Pope Julius II going out on various military campaigns to punish wayward Italian city-states (and dragging along his reluctant cardinals)! Somehow, Mr. King manages to weave all this together into a seamless, smoothly flowing narrative. This is an excellent book, both educational and entertaining!	2003-01-27
US	51300959	R27I132MJE3CXH	038548948X	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	5	63	68	N	N	Daughter, Wife, Mother; Queen, Pawn...Scapegoat	With \\"Marie Antoinette\\", Lady Antonia Fraser has written one of the more memorable biographies of recent years. She has taken a woman who had been turned into a caricature, a \\"poster-child\\" for a \\"typical\\" example of reactionary, frivolous royalty, and turned her into a real, and sympathetic, human being. And, if Lady Antonia has perhaps stacked the deck a bit too much in favor of her subject- playing up her positive qualities and playing down her negative ones- by the time you reach the end of the book your gut feeling is that you really can't blame her. For this was a woman who, before she was physically destroyed by the forces of revolution, had been emotionally worn down by years of abuse at the hands of her political enemies. This was a woman who had very high moral standards, yet was constantly being accused in the pamphlets of the time of being heterosexually and homosexually promiscuous; a generous, sensitive and intelligent woman accused of being selfish, heartless and stupid; a woman who wasn't a political animal- who wanted to do \\"good works\\" and to be a good wife and mother- but was subjected to pressure right after her marriage (by her mother Maria Teresa) to do what was best for Austria rather than what was best for France. Even if Antoinette had been politically inclined, her influence was never very great- Louis XVI, despite what the pamphlets said about him, was far from being a fool. His main interest may have been hunting, but he was intelligent, well-read, and he had a mind of his own. (And he had been warned in his youth to be wary of wily Austrian women!) But after years of anti-Antoinette and \\"fool Louis\\" propaganda, the people were primed to mistrust and hate \\"The Austrian Woman\\". As the saying goes, if you say something loudly enough and often enough people will start to believe it. When conditions in France got bad enough, the people knew who to blame. Louis and Antoinette could easily have been exiled. But the intellectuals in charge of the revolution had the precedent of the execution of Charles I of England. And, as intellectuals sometimes do, they gave more weight to abstract ideas and ideals than to acting in a humane manner. (They thought that Antoinette's death would \\"unite them in blood\\"- whatever that was supposed to mean.) In an eerie precursor to the Stalinist show trials of the 20th century, Marie was put on trial. The outcome was decided ahead of time, and so was never in doubt. She was not allowed to prepare a proper defense. Unsubstantiated accusations were made and hearsay was accepted as evidence. Just to be sure, the 8 year old Dauphin, one of whose testicles had been damaged while playing, was brainwashed by his jailers into making allegations of sexual abuse against his own mother. The allegations weren't true but, due to the corrosive influence of the pamphleteers over the course of many years, the people were ready to believe anything. Despite being ill and suffering from sleep deprivation, Antoinette defended herself with intelligence and dignity. Once the inevitable verdict was reached, she met her death with undiminished courage. (Indeed, at this point, after 4 years of her and her family being terrorized and abused, and after the execution of her husband, she welcomed death.) This book should be required reading, not only because it gives Marie Antoinette \\"the day in court\\" that she never really had in her lifetime but because it never lets us forget her humanity. It also shows us the disturbing power of propaganda, which is something just as relevant today as it was 200 years ago. For, despite the best efforts of Lady Antonia Fraser, I'm afraid that Marie Antoinette will always be known for something she never said and, considering her concern for the French people, something she never would have said....\\"Let them eat cake!\\"	2003-01-24
US	51300959	R5WOLKIEZCIGZ	0747234930	596951563	Old London Bridge: The Story of the Longest Inhabited Bridge in Europe	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Ye Keeper Of Ye Heads	This is a little gem of a book, concerning the history of Old London Bridge- the stone structure which spanned the Thames, and which operated from 1209 until it was replaced by Rennie's new bridge in August 1831. Actually, as the author Patricia Pierce points out, archaeological evidence was \\"unearthed\\" which showed that a wooden bridge had been on the same spot prior to the erection of Old London Bridge. (The wooden bridge dated back to Roman times.) Old London Bridge was functional for over 600 years. Rennie's new bridge was not so fortunate, becoming obsolete in 140 years- and is now serving as a tourist attraction in Arizona. The current London Bridge opened for business in 1973. Ms. Pierce has managed to make her book interesting by not limiting herself to the bridge, strictly speaking. After all, reading about the shops and houses that were on the bridge, the hazards of traveling over the bridge (due to congestion) and under it (the changeable currents), and all the repairs that were needed over the years- well, that could become tedious after awhile. (There is still enough of that material present for me to give the book 4 stars rather than 5.) So, the author uses the bridge as a focal point and enriches the story by telling us about people who crossed the bridge, who didn't like to cross the bridge, and who crossed under the bridge. The first category included the French king, John II, who was \\"paraded\\" over the bridge after being captured in 1357 at the Battle of Poitiers. Those being chivalrous times, John was well-treated. He was given comfortable accomodations at the Savoy Palace beside the Thames, and was allowed to visit the City of London. When he couldn't come up with the money necessary to ransom himself he was allowed to go back to France to try a little harder and his son, the Duke of Anjou, took his place as a hostage. Anjou showed considerable initiative by escaping and getting back to France. His father, however, thought that wasn't very sporting and voluntarily came back to London and once again was held for ransom. The English showed their appreciation by treating John even better the second time around and Sir Henry Picard, a former Mayor of London, had John as a guest at a dinner where five kings were present. In the second category (those who didn't like to travel over the bridge), Queen Elizabeth I is mentioned. It is unclear exactly why Elizabeth didn't like to do so...it could have been a fear of heights or concern for her personal safety (the bridge was extremely crowded with pedestrians, carts and animals and people were sometimes knocked into the Thames and drowned). In any event, it is believed that during her long reign Elizabeth only made the trip one time. In the final category (those going under the bridge) Samuel Pepys is mentioned, which offers Ms. Pierce the wonderful opportunity to talk about Pepys's career with the Naval Board, his famous diary, and his fondness for the ladies. Ms. Pierce even branches out a bit and covers things that may not have been on the bridge, but were at least nearby. This way we hear about the Globe theater, which got \\"its name from its sign and the flag which flew to announce that a play was in progress...It showed Hercules with the world on his shoulders...\\". Ms. Pierce even tells us that the rule of the road regarding \\"keep to the left\\" originated with a 1722 decision of the Common Council, which was made to control the traffic on London Bridge. One last thing I should mention, regarding the title of this review: For hundreds of years after the bridge opened, traitors' heads were set upon a gateway at the Southwark end of the bridge. Someone had to have the job of placing each new arrival \\"among the rotting heads, quarters and skulls already there...and (to toss) superfluous heads into the river below\\". Hence, the position description: Keeper Of The Heads!	2003-01-15
US	51300959	R16IACBR9OB4CX	0471218227	156303511	The Great Fire of London: In That Apocalyptic Year, 1666	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The London Fire: From Plague To Pyre	This is a wonderful book. What makes it so good is that Mr. Hanson uses the actual fire as his anchor and then casts his nets in all directions. This is a wise decision, as if all 300+ pages of the book were devoted solely to the pyrotechnics the reader's interest would wane. Instead, Mr. Hanson starts off by telling us about a severe outbreak of the plague that struck London in 1665. We are then given some insight into the apocalyptic thinking of the time, since 1666 was uncomfortably close to the biblical 666. And, since many people suspected Charles II of Catholic sympathies, Papist plots were seen everywhere. So, though the fire probably started by accident, in the middle of the night in the bakery of Thomas Farriner, most people saw the hand of God or the hand of man as being responsible. Mr. Hanson then devotes a generous portion of the book to the mechanics of the fire- how it spread over the course of the next 3 days, helped by a steady and strong wind blowing out of the east. There is some interesting material in this section, as we see both the best and worst of human nature coming to the forefront: The Duke of York's heroic efforts in leading others in an attempt to contain the fire; and on the flip side, how people who had carts for hire charged usurious prices to move furniture and personal possessions out of the path of the fire (some even loaded up the goods and disappeared, stealing the belongings of the unfortunate victims). The book does bog down a bit in this section as Mr. Hanson goes into great detail, day by day, concerning the progress of the fire through various streets and neighborhoods-  listing which buildings and churches were destroyed or survived. Only the reader with a really thorough knowledge of London would probably find this to be of much interest. However, Mr. Hanson regains his footing in the closing section as he goes into detail concerning the trial of Robert Hubert- a mentally unbalanced Frenchman who, it appears, lied about starting the fire (for motives which remain unknown). Writing about Hubert allows Mr. Hanson to explore the workings of the criminal justice system- including a particularly interesting, if gruesome, section on the perks of being the public executioner, which included (besides a fairly hefty salary): being able to auction off the nooses used to \\"dispatch\\" the condemned; the sale of their shoes and clothing; fees from local taverns for making \\"personal appearances\\"; the sale of cadavers to local hospitals; and, especially ghoulish, receiving a special fee from the condemned (or from the family) for agreeing to pull on the legs of the hanging victim, so as to hasten death. Well-written, generally nicely paced, full of fascinating peripheral material, this is an excellent book- though not, as you can see, for the faint of heart!	2003-01-13
US	51300959	R33HR5F2XFS5AQ	0375421521	949670675	Captives: The story of Britain's pursuit of empire and how its soldiers and civilians were  held captive by the dream of global supremacy	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Colley Borders On Captivating	I love books that get you to reexamine your attitudes or to at least look at something familiar in a new way- and not just for the sake of \\"novelty\\", but because the author has something important to say. \\"Captives\\" is such a book. What more can be said about the British Empire? The answer turns out to be quite a bit. Ms. Colley takes a look at four areas: North Africa, North America, India and Afghanistan- and examines the \\"captivity experiences\\" of white Britishers...soldiers, East India Company representatives and their families, merchant seamen, etc. This alone would be fascinating, because it is a subject rarely dealt with. But in addition to the \\"human interest/storytelling\\" aspects of the book, Ms. Colley has some serious, scholarly points to make. One is that, for the period covered in this book, it was certainly never clear, not even to the British, that there was going to be a British Empire. Britain was geographically small, had a small population and therefore a small army, and technology wasn't yet so far advanced that the British could feel confident that their weapons were automatically going to win battles or intimidate people. Another point the author makes is that due to consistent manpower shortages, the British could never just rely on their own forces. They had to depend on local, native troops. This was most obviously true in India, but it was also true in North America. The British had no choice other than to use Native American warriors against the French during the Seven Year's War and Native Americans and Blacks against the \\"rebels\\" during the Revolutionary War. Since the British needed these \\"outside\\" forces it influenced the way these \\"outsiders\\" were perceived and treated. For example, while Americans of European ancestry would caricaturize Native Americans as \\"savages\\", the British, in paintings of the period, would tend to show Native Americans in a way which, they felt, made them look \\"civilized\\" i.e.-in European dress or they would give them somewhat European features or mannerisms. Politically speaking, the British had to be careful not to antagonize or alienate these \\"mercenary\\" forces. They needed them too much. So, for example,if Native American forces killed prisoners who had surrendered or scalped civilians, the British sometimes just had to look the other way. In India, the absolute necessity to rely on native Indian troops influenced the way the British saw these troops. Ms. Colley cites quotations showing the sepoys were seen to be abstemious, intelligent and reliable, while the common soldier from Britain was seen to be a drunken, thieving brute who had to be kept in line with the lash. This punishment was much more likely to be used on the soldier from Britain, by the way. If the sepoys mutineed or deserted, that would result in the loss of about 85% of the British forces. As far as North Africa went, since they needed to hold onto Gibraltar and Minorca, the British had to \\"cut a deal\\" with the Barbary states and pay protection money. Once again, they weren't powerful enough to do otherwise. In Afghanistan, in the 1840's, the British would have to make alliances with certain warlords in order to try to defeat other warlords. The Royal Navy couldn't help out in a landlocked country! And, in a parallel with the present, Ms. Colley shows that it's a lot easier to invade Afghanistan than it is to accomplish what you want to accomplish and to get out. As you can see by what I've been writing, Ms. Colley doesn't just deal with the actual, physical nature of captivity. (She does deal with that, in detail, also. There are numerous \\"captivity stories\\" based on published and unpublished diaries and manuscripts.) Much of the \\"restraint\\" is political (what policies are necessary and what actions are acceptable) or intellectual/emotional (needing \\"outsiders\\" affects the way you think or feel about them). Ms. Colley is far too intelligent and too good a scholar to ever present any simplistic conclusions about any of this material. For even though many people could look on Native Americans, Blacks and sepoys, etc. in a favorable light, there were many people in Britain (both civilians and in the military) who could look down on those they considered to be their \\"inferiors\\". Hence, while during treaty negotiations at the end of the American Revolution British representatives would make sure to bend over backwards to protect the rights of loyalists, Blacks and Native Americans would be ignored. And condescending, racist attitudes would certainly contribute to the Indian Mutiny of 1857. While some physical captives would \\"go native\\"- adopt native dress and learn native language, convert to Islam, take a native spouse, etc., others would never look on their captors, even after long periods of time and even if treated well, as anything other than \\"barbarians\\". As Ms. Colley points out, history is rarely just about the past. The lessons and nuances of the \\"captivity experiences\\" of 200-300 years ago are still being learnt and felt today. There are still plenty of examples of racism (a worldwide phenomenon...obviously not confined to Britain) but Ms. Colley also notes that Britain has the highest instance of interracial marriage in the world. So, perhaps we can all hope that familiarity sometimes breeds something much more positive than contempt.	2003-01-07
US	51300959	RU6GK83OBG0XB	0393052028	692640862	Napoleon: His Wives and Women	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Caution! Coarse Corsican....	Mr. Hibbert quotes Napoleon as saying, \\"To the manner in which (my mother) formed me at an early age, I principally owe my subsequent elevation. My opinion is that the conduct of a child entirely depends upon the mother.\\" If this theory is correct, Letizia Bonaparte has a lot to answer for! For this is a man who, in the political sphere, said that the usual rules of morality didn't apply to him and who also said that the deaths of a million men didn't much bother him! And, as Christopher Hibbert shows in this very good book, in Napoleon's relationships with women he was crude, insulting and domineering. In short, (please pardon the pun) the Napster was what we would today call a male chauvinist pig. Napoleon behaved this way pretty much across the board: towards his wives, mistresses, sisters and just about every woman he came across- with the exception of his mother. Napoleon told women that they were ugly and dirty (guests at a party); he commented on their \\"private parts\\" (Josephine); told them what to wear (everybody); who to marry (his sisters); said they were only good for making babies (guest at a party); and was condescending when an intellectual woman attempted to discuss politics (Madame de Stael). To top things off, he had a nicely developed sadistic streak- he would flaunt his mistresses in front of Josephine, commenting about their physical attributes and sexual prowess. Napoleon claimed that he loved Josephine- in fact, he said that of his 2 wives and many mistresses she was the only woman he ever did love. Based on his comments and behavior, and considering his bad case of egomania, one wonders whether he was truly capable of loving anyone. But, having said this, it is important to note that Mr. Hibbert is never simplistic in his depiction. We also get to see Napoleon being playful and affectionate with both of his wives, and feeling extreme guilt concerning his decision to divorce Josephine- a decision he made solely on the basis that he felt he needed a legitimate heir, and over a long period of time he and Josephine had failed to produce any offspring. He was also very hurt when his 2nd wife, Marie-Louise, failed to join him in exile. Despite his nagging narcissism he was clearly a complicated man. Mr. Hibbert does a good job of organizing and presenting his material, although he doesn't do much in the way of analysis or in presenting  his own opinions. Still, the behavior itself is revealing and you can come to your own conclusions. Although the book is relatively short, just over 300 pages, we feel we have a good understanding of the major figures amongst the women who are portrayed- Napoleon's mother; his 2 wives; and his 3 sisters (Pauline, Caroline & Elisa). Mr. Hibbert also does a nice job of linking together the personal material with the major events of Napoleon's career- his rapid rise to power; becoming emperor; the shifting alliances; the invasion of Russia and the retreat; Waterloo; and the 2 exiles. The description of the day-to-day life of the emperor and his entourage on St. Helena is especially fascinating. (Napoleon once refused to have anything to do with  a British officer who called him, merely, General Bonaparte, remarking \\"I haven't been called General Bonaparte since the days when I was in Egypt!\\") By concentrating primarily on the private man, Mr. Hibbert has managed to write something interesting about a person who has been written about ad nauseam. Not an easy task....	2003-01-03
US	51300959	R1Y5I6V3N388X9	0375411437	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	5	42	45	N	Y	Peppy Fellow	A good biographer must tread a fine line. She must enable us to get beneath the skin of her subject. We have to be made to feel that we really understand what makes the subject tick. On the other hand (if you don't mind me mixing my metaphors!) she must maintain a critical perspective. The biography should not degenerate into \\"hero worship\\". In \\"Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self\\" the biographer, Claire Tomalin, has managed to achieve this balance. Admittedly, as far as getting beneath her subject's skin, Ms. Tomalin has been helped by one of the most famous diaries of all time- the one kept by Pepys from his late 20's until his late 30's. But I have seen other biographies of Pepys that relied too much on the diary- where the diary became a crutch that enabled the biographer merely to amuse us with its sometimes slapstick sexual content, rather than to thoughtfully present us with a well-rounded, flesh-and-blood human being. So, besides reporting on Pepys's crude and predatory amorous adventures, much of the book is devoted to Pepys's hard work over many years as a naval administrator. He devoted himself to modernizing the Navy by both the introduction of proper record keeping and by using the resultant statistical data to develop a more efficient procurement process. He also never stopped trying to get adequate funding so that more ships could be built. Pepys, who as a teenager witnessed the execution of Charles I and who was an admirer of Cromwell, was a great believer in meritocracy. However, Ms. Tomalin also shows us a Pepys who didn't fail to enrich himself by taking advantage of his position- he accepted numerous \\"gifts\\" from people who wanted government jobs or contracts. (The \\"gifts\\" weren't always in the form of money. One particularly ambitious ships' carpenter \\"loaned out\\" his wife to Pepys!) Pepys also used his position to help out friends and family members. Of course, the author points out that this was common practice at the time. But, we have to smirka bit when Pepys puffs himself up and states he would never take a bribe! (He convinced himself that he wasn't being \\"bought\\" since he claimed that the decision making process was never influenced by the money or payment-in-kind that he received. He said he always did what was best for the country, and that the \\"gifts\\" were mere gestures of appreciation.) Ms. Tomalin is never heavy-handed in her presentation. She never fails to put Pepys's behavior in its proper context- we are always reminded of how people behaved in both their public and private lives back in the 17th century. Where some previous biographers have tended to zero in on either Pepys the diarist or Pepys the naval administrator, Ms. Tomalin gives us the whole man. We learn that Pepys was an intensely social person- he loved going out to the coffee-houses, to the theater and to concerts, etc. Although not a true scientist, he was a very curious man who wanted to know what made the world tick. He belonged to the Royal Society for many years and was delighted to attend the meetings and to learn about new theories and to hear of the latest experiments. He knew Newton, Boyle, Hooke and Wren. Ms. Tomalin also tells us of Pepys's lifelong passion for music. He grew up in a musical household and throughout his life he loved both to play music and to listen to music performed by others. He enjoyed good food and was an avid reader. He built up an impressive library, which he left to Cambridge University. The beauty of this biography is in the nuances- in showing us all the facets of this remarkable man.	2003-01-02
US	51300959	R2HHQRH50UPU6L	0805057838	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	152	159	N	Y	Best Book I Read In 2002	I usually like to give my reviews catchy little titles. I was going to call this one \\"Fabulous Figes\\". I finally decided it was more important to just come right out and say this is the best book I read this year. Of course, if we were in January or February, that statement wouldn't mean too much! (Kind of like movie reviews that come out early in the year...\\"Best Darn Romantic Comedy I've Seen...So Far!) Since we're in December, and considering I've read about 70 books this year, that makes the statement a little more impressive. Okay, so now I've got to \\"put my money where my mouth is\\" and tell you what makes \\"Natasha's Dance\\" so good. First, the book is beautifully written. It is lyrical, poignant, funny, thoughtful, etc. Like all good popular historians, Mr. Figes has a novelist's flair. Second, the book is wonderfully structured. The author decided to give each chapter a particular theme. So, despite the daunting task Mr. Figes has assigned himself (a cultural history of Russia!), the book doesn't ramble. It has a tight focus. On the other hand, there are enough themes covered that you don't feel  anything relevant has been left out. Some of the themes that are covered: how Russian culture was influenced by both Asia and Western Europe; peasant life- the reality vs. how the urban intellectuals imagined it to be; Moscow vs. St. Petersburg (i.e.- their competition with each other, and changing fortunes as cultural centers); the search for the Russian soul- the religious beliefs of some of the famous Russian authors (Pushkin, Tolstoy, Gogol, Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Chekhov, etc.); the distortion and manipulation of culture by the Bolsheviks; and, finally, the effect that emigration from \\"Mother Russia\\" had on various cultural figures- such as Prokofiev, Rachmaninov, Stravinsky, Gorky and Nabokov. Mr. Figes also makes sure not to neglect those who chose to stay- people such as the poet Anna Akhmatova, the film director Sergei Eisenstein and the composer Dmitry Shostakovich. Some of these people hated the Revolution and pined for the past. Others welcomed the Revolution and later on became disillusioned. All of them either suffered (materially and/or spiritually) or lived in fear during the nightmare years under Stalin. Third, besides each chapter having an interesting theme, within each chapter Mr. Figes gives details concerning what was going on in the lives of various artists within a particular creative field. So, you get lots of interesting biographical material concerning novelists, poets, composers, etc. The threads of their lives intersect in interesting ways: Tolstoy, who had a lifelong fear of his own death, going to visit Chekhov- Tolstoy thought Chekhov was on his deathbed and wanted to see how Chekhov would \\"handle\\" his own mortality! Tolstoy was amazed that Chekhov could still laugh and joke and put on \\"a brave face\\". (Chekhov was amused. He knew Tolstoy and suspected the reason for his visit.). Another interesting \\"artistic intersection\\" was when Prokofiev decided to leave America because he didn't want to play \\"second fiddle\\" (or maybe I should say \\"second piano!) to Rachmaninov. Prokofiev apparently had quite a large ego, and when he saw how popular Rachmaninov was in the United States (Rachmaninov had emigrated first) he decided to return to Europe (part of this was style- Prokofiev felt that he was too \\"modern\\"- that Americans preferred Rachmaninov's more \\"traditional\\" and \\"romantic\\" music). Regarding Prokofiev, there is the touching footnote that he had the misfortune to die on the same day that Stalin did, March 5, 1953. As Mr. Figes writes, \\"(Prokofiev's) funeral (was) a sad affair that was scarcely noticed by the Soviet public...There were no flowers left to buy, so a single pine branch was placed on the composer's grave.\\" I hope I have been able to convey some idea of the richness of this book. It is a remarkable achievement by Mr. Figes. If you have any interest whatsoever in Russian cultural history, you will definitely love this book. And, as sort of a wonderful dessert after a gourmet meal, the author has provided a section called \\"A Guide To Further Reading\\". This section is almost 30 pages long. Mr. Figes lists many books in this section but also indicates his particular favorites. I've already found at least half-a-dozen titles I want to buy. We bibliophiles should have a \\"universal tattoo\\"- \\"So many books, so little time!\\"	2002-12-04
US	51300959	R283626L6EE1GI	0786868996	216205679	003: History of Britain, A - Volume III: The Fate of the Empire 1776 - 2000 (History of Britain (Talk Miramax))	Books	3	78	82	N	N	Shimmering Schama	Let me start off this review by saying that I am a great admirer of Mr. Schama. I have read \\"Citizens\\", \\"Landscape And Memory\\" and \\"Rembrandt's Eyes\\" and thought they were all wonderful. I would give all of those books a 5 star rating. So, what happened here? I think what happened is that Mr. Schama was being pulled in 2 different directions. This book is meant to accompany the television programs that the author is hosting for the BBC. Instead of just writing whatever book he might ordinarily have written, I think Mr. Schama was hindered by the restrictions the TV format placed on him. For the TV shows he had to come up with various \\"hooks\\", a few well-known personalities that would help him illustrate whatever point or points he was trying to make at that point in the narrative. Additionally, the television format required Mr. Schama to be ruthlessly selective in what he chose to include or exclude. There just isn't the time to put in everything that you'd like to. These requirements distort the writing process. Mr. Schama is aware of the problem and addresses it in the preface to the book. But this \\"preemptive strike\\", this acknowledgement by the author that he is aware of the problem, doesn't make the problem go away. The author is such a good historian, and such a good writer, that this book is still well- worth reading. Mr. Schama has pulled out, like rabbits from a hat, some interesting tales of little-known historical figures. Here we have Thomas Day, a great believer in the theories of Jean-Jacques Rousseau: \\"...Day...believed in the inter-connectedness of all created life and was therefore a vegetarian...Would he want to treat all creatures with the same consideration, asked a sardonic lawyer friend, even spiders? Would he not want to kill them? 'No,' answered Day, 'I don't know that I have a right. Suppose that a superior being said to a companion- \\"Kill that lawyer.\\" How should you like it? And a lawyer is more noxious to most people than a spider.'......(Day's) peculiar life ended abruptly in September 1789 in his 42nd year, during an experiment to test his pet theories about taming horses with gentleness rather than breaking them. An unbroken colt he was riding failed to respond to the tender touch, and threw Day on his head.\\" The book is filled with nice touches like this. There are many entertaining anecdotes about the well-known, such as Wordsworth, Coleridge, Queen Victoria, George Orwell, Winston Churchill, etc.....and the not-so-well-known, such as Mr. Day. This provides a counterbalance to the heavyweight material.....for example, the intricacies of British politics (Pitt vs. Fox; Gladstone vs. Disraeli; Labour vs. Liberal vs. Conservative); the big-issues (home-rule for Ireland; women's suffrage; the Raj; industrialization; etc.). But, despite the quality of both Mr. Schama's thinking and writing, in the end we feel strangely unsatisfied. Too much has been left out. Despite what you might have anticipated by the book starting with 1776, there is nothing here concerning the American Revolution; a handful of pages concerning the 20 year struggle against Napoleonic France; no mention of the War Of 1812; virtually nothing on the Crimean and Boer Wars or WWI; nothing on the relationship between Britain and South Africa, or Britain and Canada, or Britain and Australia/New Zealand, etc.; and, surprisingly, considering Mr. Schama's wide-ranging interests, except for mentioning some writers, there is very little cultural history contained in these pages- nothing about art, music, dance, architecture, etc.; and almost no mention of scientific and technological achievements. So, if you are a fan of Mr. Schama, read this book for the beautiful prose and for the author's always interesting insights concerning the areas he has chosen to cover. But, if you are looking for a detailed, all-inclusive history of Great Britain- you will need to look elsewhere.	2002-11-26
US	51300959	RR1Z98HCV7DOE	0679454810	937658431	Seven Ages of Paris	Books	4	139	141	N	N	Barricades, Balzac, Big Bertha and Josephine Baker	In the past few years we've had a massive biography of New York City (\\"Gotham\\") and several only slightly less massive biographies of London (by Peter Ackroyd, Stephen Inwood, etc.). Alistair Horne, an Englishman who has spent most of his life writing about France, rightly decided that it's about time we gave equal time to the City Of Light. He has written a very good book. If you don't know much about France and the French, Mr. Horne's book covers so many different areas that it is sure to whet your appetite to learn more. Even if you're a longtime Francophile, the author has dug so deeply into his sources that you're bound to be delighted and/or surprised at many of the tidbits he's unearthed. For example, during the siege of Paris in the autumn of 1870, the Parisians were able to communicate with the rest of France by successfully sending out balloons. But the balloons were never able to make it back in to Paris. The solution? Mr. Horne takes up the story: \\"It was the humble carrier-pigeon that was to prove the only means of breaking the blockade in reverse. A microphotography unit was set up in Tours, and there government despatches were reduced to a minute size, printed on feathery collodion membranes, so that one pigeon could carry up to 40,000 despatches, equivalent to the contents of a complete book. On reaching Paris, the despatches were projected by magic lantern, their contents transcribed by a battery of clerks......As a counter-measure, the Prussians imported falcons, which prompted one of the many imaginative Parisian 'inventors' to suggest that the pigeons be equipped with whistles to frighten off the predators\\". And while many people know that the siege reduced Parisians to having to eat horses, dogs, cats, rats and even animals from the zoo.....where else could you find out that it's estimated that during the siege the Parisians consumed 65,000 horses, 5,000 cats, 1,200 dogs.....but only 300 rats! Depending on your interests (or the strength of yourstomach!) this is either fascinating or maybe a bit TOO much information! Mr. Horne tries to let you sample various aspects of Parisian life. So, in each \\"Age\\" he tries to tell you what was going on in certain core areas: politics, architecture, relations between the sexes, culture (music, dance, theater, art, literature), etc. Heavyweight material (Louis XIV's revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the Paris Commune, collaboration during WWII) is beautifully and seamlessly blended with lighter fare- such as the 1809 inventory of Josephine's wardrobe (which found 666 winter dresses, 230 summer dresses but only 2 pairs of knickers!). We learn that King Louis-Philippe kept 2 pairs of gloves \\"on hand\\"- a special dirty pair for shaking the hands of the \\"common people\\" and a cleaner kid glove pair for use with old aristocrats, bankers, etc. In the world of dance, we find out about the moral outrage expressed when, during the 1912 season, Nijinsky decided to perform in \\"Afternoon Of A Faun\\" in a manner that some people felt was not quite appropriate. (He went onstage \\"sans cup\\".) Mr. Horne wears his likes and dislikes on his sleeve: He clearly dislikes Louis XIV and admires Charles de Gaulle, for example. (But, he has a wonderful sense of humor and can't resist telling us that Jean-Paul Sartre used to call de Gaulle \\"Charles XI\\"!)  Mr. Horne makes it clear that this is a \\"personal\\" history rather than a \\"scholarly\\" history. Fair enough....at least we know the groundrules. The reason I decided to give this book only 4 stars rather than 5 is that, if anything, Mr. Horne was not quite ambitious enough in his undertaking. Granted, 477 pages is not a short book......but it isn't long enough for a subject such as this. You feel a bit \\"rushed\\" in the first 3 \\"Ages\\", as approximately 600 years of history are compressed into 150 pages. And, for all intents and purposes, the Revolution of 1789 is ignored! The book doesn't hit it's stride until Napoleon struts onto the scene. So, the last 200 years are covered in 300 pages and the pace for that period seems more leisurely and appropriate. After all, we want to do full justice to such a rich, complex, story. To finish with a quote by Charles de Gaulle: \\"How can you govern a country that has 246 varieties of cheese!\\"	2002-11-19
US	51300959	RFS0DUC7CC4IX	0679424903	72646331	Sacred Monsters, Sacred Masters: Beaton, Capote, Dal, Picasso, Freud, Warhol, and More	Books	3	15	16	N	Y	Mr. Richardson Goes Duck Hunting	Having read the first two volumes of Mr. Richardson's \\"A Life Of Picasso,\\" and having thoroughly enjoyed them, I went into this book with high expectations. Overall, I was disappointed. Granted, the book is a collection of some of the articles that Mr. Richardson has written for popular magazines over the past 30 years or so. The audience for, say, a \\"Vanity Fair\\" article is not the same as the audience for a scholarly journal. But Mr. Richardson acknowledges in the preface that he had hundreds of articles to choose from. He states that he made a conscious decision not to include his more academic essays. That is a shame. Because some of the material that is included, about such people as Lucien Freud and Brice Marden, for example, gives a tantalizing glimpse of what might have been. Here is Lucien Freud on why he chooses to paint nudes of, almost exclusively, close friends and relatives: \\"Aesthetic and biological truth-telling is what my painting is all about.....the fact that a model would never find himself or herself in this particular situation were it not at the painter's behest makes for vulnerability.....vulnerability would not be an issue if I used professional models. But I don't, because professional models have been stared at so much that they have grown another skin. When they take their clothes off, they are not naked; their skin has become another garment.\\" I would like to have seen more keen insights into the artistic process, such as this one, and less of the following (this is from the essay on Salvador Dali and his wife Gala): \\"One of my responsibilities (as vice president of the firm that acted as Dali's dealer) was keeping the artist to the terms of his contract- a one-man show of new work, every two years. This was no easy task, given that his eye was so bleary and his hand so shaky that assistants had taken over most of his work. I could not help feeling sorry for the seedy old conjurer with his rhinoceros-horn wand, leopard-skin overcoat, anddesigner whiskers, not to speak of his surreal breath.\\" For the most part, you can't see any reason to dredge these essays up and put them into book form. There is a lot of gossip, particularly about peoples' sex lives (The Dalis, Vita Sackville-West, Peggy Guggenheim, etc.) and there are several pieces where Mr. Richardson takes on subjects that are just too easy to ridicule, such as Dr. Barnes, The Sitwells and Armand Hammer. (Hence, the title of my review.) Since Mr. Richardson states that he and his assistants had to do a lot of work to update these essays, there is really no excuse for some of the blatant errors- such as writing (in the essay on the Merchant/Ivory movie \\"Surviving Picasso\\"- where Richardson is trying to make the point that moviemakers have done a poor job of portraying major artists) that Anthony Quinn played van Gogh. (He did not. In \\"Lust For Life\\" Kirk Douglas played van Gogh and Quinn played Paul Gauguin.) In another piece, the statement is made that the announcement of the Nobel Peace Prize is made in Norway. That's wrong. It is made in Stockholm, Sweden. In the essay on Pablito Picasso, Pablo's grandson, Mr. Richardson writes that it took seven years to settle the Picasso estate. As Picasso died in 1973, this would bring us to 1980. But the essay informs us that the estate was divided up in 1990. This may seem as though I am nitpicking. But, remember, Mr. Richardson is working on the third volume of his Picasso biography. The first two volumes have been rightly hailed as a tremendous achievement. The cheap shots and silly errors contained in \\"Sacred Monsters, Sacred Masters\\" are beneath a scholar of Mr. Richardson's ability. I still give this book three-stars, as even though the collection is uneven, there are several good essays. Besides the pieces on Lucien Freud and Brice Marden, which I mentioned earlier, there are thoughtful articles on Klee, Miro and Braque, for example. On the whole, however, one gets the impression that Mr. Richardson's publisher wanted something from him while they were waiting for the third volume of \\"A Life Of Picasso.\\" There's nothing wrong with that. It's just that a little more care should have been taken in deciding what that something was going to be.	2002-11-12
US	51300959	R2MDPDXYG32XTL	0393313875	760425235	Balzac: A Biography	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Follow The Bouncing Balzac	One of the major accomplishments of this biography is that it will make you want to go out and read all of Balzac. This is because Mr. Robb has sprinkled a liberal number of excerpts from the novels throughout his text. Balzac was both a keen observer and a tireless researcher, with an interest in, literally, everything. He was also tremendously sensitive. When you put all of these qualities together, you get prose that has great depth.....resonating between the internal and the external. Mr. Robb is the first one to point out that not everything that Balzac wrote was great or even good. He was obsessive.....a writing machine churning out thousands of words per day. He was deeply in debt and had to write just about non-stop in an attempt to get himself out of debt. Mr. Robb maintains a nice balance. He obviously has a tremendous fondness for his subject but he doesn't let that blind him to the great man's faults and contradictions. Balzac was very open and childlike.....he wore his heart on his sleeve and talked non-stop, rarely censoring himself. On the other hand, he was cunning and manipulative, using all sorts of &quot;dodges&quot; to flee from his numerous creditors. He also took advantage of other writers.....creating a sort of writing factory- hiring young, admiring, ambitious writers to write novels on his behalf. He expected these &quot;laborers&quot; to have the same superhuman energy that he possessed and would drive them mercilessly. But, in counterpoint, Balzac never gave up trying to pay off his debts and frequently he did pay people everything he owed them. He also took a genuine interest in the young writers he had working for him.....giving them worthwhile advice and he was also financially generous when he was in a position to be able to help. Balzac was a shrewd judge of human nature and was very intelligent. He could size up a person or a situation very quickly. His contemporaries commented that if a person read Balzac's novels and applied the vast amounts of information and wisdom to real life, they could make a fortune. But Balzac could not turn his genius into wealth. He would get himself into one harebrained scheme after another, and he could not control his profligate spending. No matter how hard he worked and how many books he wrote he was always getting himself deeper and deeper in debt. But he was an eternal optimist: the next scheme or best-selling novel was just around the corner, and then everything would be wonderful! Oftimes, once he had an idea for a book he considered it done. Forget the fact that he hadn't written a word. To Balzac, it was a concrete asset.....just as good as money in the bank. He was a human dynamo and tremendously hard working. Balzac was of the opinion that he wore himself out and Mr. Robb agrees. No one could maintain that intensity forever. (Balzac was only 51 when he died.) He was a fascinating man, as interesting as any of his characters, and Mr. Robb has done a splendid job depicting him.	2002-11-05
US	51300959	R2Y20EYHXDVQ6W	0060196726	473690060	The Lives of the Muses: Nine Women & the Artists They Inspired	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Men (And Muses) Behaving (Mostly) Badly...	I believe it was Thomas Edison who said, \\"Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration.\\" Nobody really wants to see the sweaty part...it's boring for us, and hard work for the artist. However, we are all fascinated by where that all-important 1% comes from. To a large extent, it's ethereal and mysterious. But one concrete thing we know is important, and which the non-artist can also understand (since it's universal), is love. But, as Ms. Prose knows, and makes clear to the reader, it's still a mystery how love (and the pain of lost love) gets transmuted into art. I think one of the reasons this book works so well is that Ms. Prose is, herself, a creative artist.....a well-regarded author of fiction. She has a lot of fun with human foibles....they are her stock and trade. She can be amusing (yes, pun intended!) and bitingly satirical. She knows that artists can be childish, self-centered and irresponsible. They can use other people, consciously and unconsciously, as grist for the creative mill. But Ms. Prose can also be sympathetic because, like everyone else, artists are \\"only human.\\" Sometimes they just can't help themselves! Of course, artists can get away with a lot more than \\"regular\\" people....if they are perceived as having a touch of genius. So, we get to read about rude behavior, drug use (experimentation and addiction), alcoholism, promiscuity and assorted sexual hangups. We have artists using muses for their purposes.....sex and as catalysts of creativity....and we have muses using artists for their purposes...to provide a sense of purpose, to learn from the artist and, sometimes, just for the pot of gold the muse can see waiting at the end of the rainbow. Ms. Prose doesn't just give us the \\"dish\\"....though there is plenty of that: Dr. Johnson's apparent penchant for masochism......his muse, amongst her effects, had \\"Dr. Johnson's padlock\\"; Salvador Dali's weird obsession with his bodily functions; Lee Miller (Man Ray's muse) being photographed, in the nude, from childhood to adulthood by her father, etc. (By the time you get to the end of the book you start to wonder if there is really any such thing as being \\"normal\\"!) Ms. Prose does, however, move onwards to more philosophical realms: the mystery of creation and the limits to what we can know about the creative process; duality (the muse as artist and the artist as muse- such as Suzanne Farrell and George Balanchine and John Lennon and Yoko Ono); the fact that a muse can be both a positive and negative influence (Gala's providing Dali with inspiration but also steering him towards commercialism; the decline in John Lennon's creativity after his marriage to Yoko Ono); what happens when the muse leaves? (sometimes the artist gets another muse.....sometimes there is a burst of creativity caused by the breakup.....sometimes the creative juices dry up), etc. All in all, this is a witty, wistful, thoughtful and thought provoking look at not just the creative process but at the human condition.	2002-10-31
US	51300959	R2TMB74L8E8CKG	0802713742	570323743	The Battle for New York	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Solid Addition To Revolutionary War Canon	Despite the title, this book provides a  good general history of the American Revolution but, from a military standpoint, starting with the Battle of Brooklyn in 1776 rather than with Lexington and Concord in 1775. Anyone who has read extensively concerning the battles will not really find anything new about Saratoga, Trenton, Princeton, Guilford Courthouse, Yorktown, etc. However, for the general reader, the book does provide good summaries of many battles and may whet your appetite to read books that are more specific....such as the volumes written by Richard Ketchum on Saratoga, and Trenton/Princeton. For the person who has already read quite a bit about the Revolutionary War, what makes this book worthwhile is Mr. Schecter's focus in the first half of the book on the battles in and near New York City, and in the second half of the book his arguments, generally convincing, that New York City was always important to the strategy of both sides. Even though the British occupied New York City, they were always worried about the rebels launching a counterattack, especially once the French allied themselves with the Americans. As British resources were limited, and as tremendous distances were involved, this nagging concern with New York City prevented the British from concentrating their forces sufficiently to be able to deliver a knockout blow. Mr. Schecter has some interesting things to say about the Battles of Brooklyn, Harlem Heights, etc. While not downplaying the strategic errors made by the rebel forces, the author is persuasive when he makes his point that these battles were not quite as one-sided as they have been portrayed in the past. Although it is true that the British took many more prisoners than the Americans did, the dead and wounded on the British side were usually greater...once the Hessian losses are factored in. This is a key point, as the British traditionally tended &quot;not to count&quot; the losses sustained by their mercenary forces. And while many historians down through the years have pointed out that the British commander General Gage missed several opportunities, by his conservative strategy, to trap and destroy (or force a total capitulation by) Washington's forces, Mr. Schecter points out that one reason, though certainly not the only reason, for this conservative strategy was a grudging and growing respect for the willingness of the Americans to fight. Yes, it is true that there was sometimes panic and hasty retreat on the rebel side, but there were several instances, also, of stubborn fighting...which resulted in those not inconsiderable British/Hessian casualties. This book does have some weaknesses: Mr. Schecter has an annoying habit, especially in the first half of the book, of disrupting the narrative by providing detailed information concerning current day locations of where much of the action took place. A reader that does not possess an intimate knowledge of New York City will find this information to be extraneous, and I assume there will be many such readers. Another glaring weakness is the maps. There are not enough of them and they are poorly placed- usually after rather than just before or during the narrative descriptions of the battles. On the plus side, Mr. Schecter's main thesis is interesting, he writes well and he includes many first-person quotations (which help bring the story to life). Particularly enlightening and amusing are the excerpts from the memoirs of a  soldier, Joseph Plumb Martin, who fought throughout the war. He may have been a &quot;common&quot; soldier, but his wit, insights and writing ability were quite uncommon. Thanks to Mr. Martin we are brought down from the stratosphere of grand strategy and politics to the cold earth of the battlefield- where the citizen-soldier usually had inadequate clothing and would sometimes go several days without food or sleep......and his bed would be the hard ground and the ceiling consisted of the stars.	2002-10-28
US	51300959	R1906MPOA2RH4N	0393320561	8106886	Lexington and Concord: The Beginning of the War of the American Revolution	Books	5	41	45	N	Y	Sam Adams, Master of Propaganda; John Hancock, Dunderhead!	The title of this review gives you an idea  why this book is such an enjoyable reading experience. Although the book gives a detailed analysis of the fighting at Lexington and Concord, and the British retreat back to Boston, it is not just another military history. Mr. Tourtellot provides such intimate detail, and he quotes from sufficient primary sources, that you feel you've come to know the famous, such as Sam Adams and John Hancock, and the everyday people that lived in Lexington and Concord and got swept up in the events of April 19th, 1775. Considering that the book is about such a serious subject, it is also surprisingly funny.....up until the shooting starts. This is certainly a case of farce turning into tragedy. If you'll pardon the pun, General Gage was such an engaging fellow that he made it clear that he wanted the Colonials handled with kid gloves. Again, up until the shooting started, the British were quite accomodating. They were very polite towards the populace, even when searching for weapons and powder. They went to one house and there was a room the owner wouldn't let them go into. She said that there was a woman in that room who didn't feel well, so the British didn't press the issue and didn't search the room. Of course, that was the one room in the house where gunpowder was being stored! The British excursion from Boston was a comedy of errors. It was supposed to be a surprise, but the Colonials knew all about it. There were endless delays in leaving Boston, which gave riders such as Paul Revere plenty of time to get to Lexington and Concord to warn people to hide weapons and gunpowder. Gage had given detailed orders on what he wanted done. For example, he wanted the soldiers to take confiscated musket balls, put them in their pockets, and drop them in dribs and drabs in ponds and streams. The soldiers actually found very little, since the inhabitants had plenty of time to hide things, but instead of dropping things in small quantities the soldiers pretty much dumped whatever they found in just a few areas.....making it easy for the Colonials to retrieve most of what was confiscated! You could say there was a lack of brainpower on the \\"hometeam\\" side as well.....such as tearing up the planks of a bridge leading out from Boston so that the British could not cross it, but then leaving the planks stacked up in plain sight.....so the soldiers just had to nail them back down and they were back in business! A running gag throughout much of the book is the relationship between Sam Adams and John Hancock. The author portrays Adams as a shrewd propagandist, a man who spent 10 years trying to stir up a rebellion and finally knew the big chance when he saw it. Hancock is portrayed as none-too-bright, vain, wealthy and easily manipulated by the psychologically astute Adams. Adams and Hancock were so sure the British were after them that they acted like two crooks on-the-run. Mr. Tourtellot's thesis, from going through the primary sources on the British side, is that the British couldn't have cared less about capturing the \\"dynamic duo.\\" They just wanted to confiscate some cannon and gunpowder...period! To support his appraisal of Hancock as dunderhead, Mr. Tourtellot gives many examples. However, the funniest is probably when Adams and Hancock are in hiding in Lexington on the morning of April 19th, and suddenly they heard the sound of gunfire. This is what Adams was waiting for! He knew this could be used to unite the Colonies, finally, in a drive towards independence. Adams said, \\"Oh, what a glorious morning is this.\\" Hancock's reaction was that he thought it was a strange time to comment on the weather! Adams (you have to wonder whether he smacked his head in exasperation) clarified the situation: \\"I mean what a glorious morning for America.\\" Adams and Hancock, convinced that the British were coming (for them!) moved on to their next \\"safe house.\\" Hancock had a messenger take a note to his aunt and fiancee, asking them to come and join him. Lest you think that Hancock by now might have had an inkling as to the importance of the day's events, he made sure he included in the note the following: He directed them \\"to bring the fine salmon that they had had sent to them for dinner.\\" Of course, once the fighting starts, Mr. Tourtellot does not make light of matters. The British retreat towards Boston is recorded in harrowing detail...they were surrounded by superior numbers and were fighting for their survival. They sent out flanking parties to deal with snipers and the flanking parties did what they needed to do...such as burning down homes that they suspected were being used by snipers and killing able-bodied, though unarmed men, on the assumption that they were rebels. Not a bad assumption, really, when you understand that even men in their sixties and seventies were lurking in the woods, taking potshots at the British. One remarkable part of the book is where the soldiers came upon 78 year old Samuel Whittemore, who had just killed a couple of Redcoats. They shot Whittemore and beat him severely. They were satisfied that they had \\"killed the old rebel.\\" Amazingly, Mr. Whittemore lived another 18 years....not dying until the ripe, old age of 96! Mr. Tourtellot also deals with the aftermath of the battle....showing how Sam Adams and others got maximum propaganda value from the day's events, exaggerating British atrocities (which were in actuality extremely rare) in order to set the Colonies on the road to independence and to influence opinion back in England. I consider this book a welcome and necessary addition to my collection of books dealing with the American Revolution.	2002-10-23
US	51300959	R3FMZPX5ZD5Y0S	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Eye-Opening Account For Non-Russians	About a year ago I read an excellent book by Mr. Overy, entitled \\"Why The Allies Won.\\" I was very impressed by that book so I decided to take a chance on this one as well. I was not disappointed. Whereas the earlier book stepped back and gave a broader view of the European conflict, \\"Russia's War\\" zooms in on the life and death struggle between Germany and Russia. If you have already read a few books on the Eastern Front, this book is probably not for you....it is meant only to provide a general outline of the war in eastern Europe. However, if you haven't read much about WWII, or if your reading up until now has concentrated on the Western Front, you might just find this book to be an eye-opener. I consider myself to be a fairly well-read person, but I am a bit ashamed to admit I didn't know much about the 1941 attack on Leningrad. I knew there was a siege that lasted about 2 1/2 years, but I didn't know much else. Mr. Overy explains Hitler's intent wasn't something as mundane as just getting Leningrad to surrender. He wanted to wipe Leningrad from the face of the Earth. Peter The Great had made it his capital, and so it had great importance to the Russian people and also to Hitler. The start of the siege in 1941 is horrible to read about and not for the squeamish. The city was surrounded and, besides being pounded by German artillery several times a day, for all intents and purposes was cut off from the outside world. What the population of Leningrad went through in the winter of 1941-1942 is unbelievable. Many people starved or froze to death or became so weak that they succumbed to sicknesses that, in normal times, would not have been fatal. But the survivors carried on and finally managed to get supplies thru by finding a gap in the siege lines that involved crossing a large lake. Leningrad managed to hold on until Russian advances in 1944 finally broke the siege. Mr. Overy also tells about how the Russians dismantled entire factories in the western part of thecountry right after the German invasion in June 1941 and moved everything by rail to the east. Factories were reassembled and workers constructed crude huts to live in, or sometimes just dug holes in the ground and lived in those. With the tradeoff of pretty much not producing any consumer goods, the Russian workers under these conditions managed to outproduce the Germans militarily....numbers of planes, tanks, artillery pieces, etc. As difficult as this was to accomplish, it was essential if the Russians were going to survive as tremendous amounts of military hardware were destroyed during the initial German assault in 1941. The author also gives credit to the lend-lease program. Stalin gave this short shrift in public, but in private he admitted that Russia could not have survived without the large quantities of trucks, jeeps, fuel, telephones and telephone wire, etc. provided by her allies. The Russian military also learned from their early mistakes. They adapted strategy and tactics to fight a modern, mechanized war...with concentrated firepower and improved communications. Mr. Overy also gives the Devil his due. At the beginning of the conflict, Stalin thought he could run the show. He thought he knew more than his military leaders. When he was told in early 1941 that if the Germans attacked the attack would likely be aimed to capture Moscow, Stalin refused to believe it. He was sure the Germans would go for the economic jugular....the southwestern part of Russia where the oil was produced. Russian defenses were therefore skewed to fit Stalin's thinking. Of course, Stalin was wrong......and his error was almost catastrophic. Stalin made other mistakes, such as ordering massive counter-offensives when the Russian army, both organizationally and militarily, was unprepared to undertake such actions. These attacks caused many unneccesary deaths and loss of equipment that the army could ill-afford. But the author shows that Stalin learned from his mistakes. He worked long hours and familiarized himself with all the strategic aspects of the conflict. He was man enough to admit, at least to himself, that he was making mistakes. He listened to advice and criticism and he often let the military men have the final say, once he had people in place that he felt he could trust. Of course, after the war, what he did to these same people is a whole other story! But that's another book... Mr. Overy writes well, and is always evenhanded and judicious in coming to his conclusions. I don't think you could find a better book concerning an introductory history of the war on the Eastern Front.	2002-10-21
US	51300959	R3MR216ER2O1HG	0374519323	147900873	La Place de la Concorde Suisse	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Prose As Precise As A Swiss Watch	This is the first book I've read by Mr. McPhee, and I really enjoyed it. The author started out as a journalist and a lot of his pieces originally appeared in \\"The New Yorker.\\" This background is apparent in the way he writes. He picks an unusual topic, or at least he looks at something from an unusual angle, and he is very economic with his words. This is not a criticism. You don't feel that you are being \\"shortchanged.\\" Being linquistically economic allows Mr. McPhee to cram an awful lot of interesting information into a short book, in this case just 150 pages. We learn a lot about the workings of the Swiss Army and how it permeates the entire society. We get insight into the Swiss mentality and their philosophy of \\"neutrality.\\" We also get a little history.....both concerning WWII and going back further, back to the days of the Swiss mercenaries. The famous Swiss precision even comes into play in the construction of bomb shelters: \\"....the Swiss started building one-bar (i.e.-being able to withstand a certain amount of pressure caused by an explosion) shelters to protect the extremely high percentage of the population that might survive explosions but without the shelter would be destroyed like the citizens of Hamburg and Dresden. Swiss calculations showed that something as thick as, say, a ten-bar shelter would be of negligible extra value, for the increased area of protection would be slight rather than proportional; for underground hospitals and command posts, three-bar construction was chosen.\\" And even though Mr. McPhee is never wasteful with words, this doesn't stop him from occasionally inserting his dry sense of humor. Regarding the Swiss propensity for planning for all contingencies, and not being caught with their pants down, the author writes: \\"It would be very un-Swiss to wake up tomorrow to yesterday's threat and then attempt to do something about it. If Pearl Harbor had somehow been in Switzerland, a great deal of Japanese aluminum would be scattered all over the Alps.\\" Now that I've dipped my toe in the water, I'm looking forward to reading a lot more by Mr. McPhee!	2002-10-16
US	51300959	R3FXLY5G2KUGR9	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	156	168	N	Y	A Brilliant Synthesis	This book will be the definitive work, from the American point of view, on the war in North Africa, covering the period when the United States got involved (November 1942) up until the German surrender in Tunisia (May 1943).  Mr. Atkinson effectively sets the stage by showing the sorry state the U.S. military had fallen into prior to the decision to invade North Africa. He points out that in September 1939, when Germany invaded Poland, the U.S. Army had  ranked seventeenth in the world in size and combat power, just behind Romania. When 136 German divisions conquered Western Europe in the Spring of 1940, our War Department reported that we could only field five divisions! Mr. Atkinson writes, \\"Equipment and weaponry were pathetic. Soldiers trained with drainpipes for antitank guns, stovepipes for mortar tubes, and brooms for rifles...Only six medium tanks had been built in 1939.....This in part reflected an enduring loyalty to the horse...The Army's cavalry chief assured Congress in 1941 that four well-spaced horsemen could charge half a mile across an open field to destroy an enemy machine-gun nest without sustaining a scratch.\\" This sort of information helps you to appreciate what had to be overcome in order for us to play our part in the expulsion of the Axis forces from North Africa! Mr. Atkinson doesn't fail to show us what other problems had to be overcome...Eisenhower having to learn \\"on the job\\" how to be Supreme Commander; having to build and then hold together the Allied coalition...this was very difficult, as many top men in the British military had nothing but disdain for Eisenhower's abilities and also for the abilities of the American troops (and many of the top American brass, such as Eisenower, Bradley and Patton were Anglophobic, so it worked both ways!); the administrative and logistical nightmares....the actual amphibious landings, getting supplies to the troops, coordinating the actions of the British and American forces, etc.; plus the number one problem of building an effective fighting force, made up of officers who hadn't been in battle since WWI (and that was a type of battle that had little relevance in the current situation!) and green troops that had never experienced combat. So, as Mr. Atkinson states, North Africa was the place where U.S. forces (and their superiors) learned to integrate and coordinate their actions both with themselves and with their Allies; and on a more basic level, where we learned how to hate and kill the enemy. North Africa prepared us for what we had to do later on in Italy and, of course, after June 6th, 1944. Mr. Atkinson is very evenhanded in his account. He doesn't hesitate to point out the mistakes made by both the British and the Americans. Eisenhower, Patton, Montgomery, Alexander, etc. all come in for their share of criticism as well as being praised, when praise it due. One thing that really surprised me was the sheer level of backbiting that went on...the nasty comments made by the British about the Americans, and vice-versa. The author is also very good at pointing out the numerous strategic and tactical errors made on the various battlefields. Mistakes were made by not only the top brass, but also by people in charge at lower levels. Very basic errors were made....such as not sending out reconnaisance units, initiating tank attacks without proper artillery or air support, etc. Many brave men were sent to their deaths in useless and ill-conceived actions. Sometimes just the sheer confusion of the battlefield was responsible, or just plain error....planes bombing their own men or artillery falling short, etc. Another area where Mr. Atkinson excels is in the \\"thumbnail\\" sketch of the numerous personalities that are integral to the story. The writing is sharp, witty and, quite often, eloquent. Here are just a few sentences concerning General Patton: \\"More than a quarter-century had gone by since his first intoxicating taste of battle and fame, during the Punitive Expedition to Mexico in 1916, when he had briefly become a national hero for killing three banditos and strapping their bodies to his automobile running boards like game trophies.....At the age of fifty, upon reading J.F.C. Fuller's classic 'Generalship: It's Diseases and Their Cures,' Patton had wept bitterly because eighty-nine of the one hundred great commanders profiled were younger than he. Now, when he was fifty-six, his hour had come round.\\" Mr. Atkinson is also very good at describing the nuts and bolts of the various battles. The descriptions are clear, vivid and exciting. Some readers with a strong interest in the military aspects may be a bit disappointed in the maps. They are few and, barely, adequate. But this is a minor quibble. A more serious criticism might be that there is very little here concerning the view from the German and Italian side. But I don't think such criticism would be fair, because Mr. Atkinson's intent was never to show the war in North Africa from all points of view. He wanted to show the difficulties involved in the U.S. becoming an effective fighting force, the animosity that had to be overcome so that the Americans and British could start to form an effective alliance and, lastly, to set the stage for volume II of his \\"Liberation Trilogy\\"- the Allied invasion of Italy in 1943. He has accomplished what he set out to do, and he has done so brilliantly.	2002-10-15
US	51300959	R33HTXNCRSY3ZT	1854108018	407540222	The Most Dangerous Enemy: A History of the Battle of Britain	Books	5	70	74	N	N	Achtung, Indianer!	No, it isn't the shout of a German tourist on his way to the Indianapolis 500, enthusiastic about reaching the Indiana border. It's the shout of a German bomber or fighter pilot, spotting an approaching Spitfire or Hurricane. However, mentioning the Indianapolis 500 isn't as unrelated as it seems. Mr. Bungay compares putting a recently trained pilot into the Battle of Britain to taking someone who has just obtained their drivers license and entering them in a Grand Prix motor race. Only, imagine the other drivers have machine guns! After you read this book you will have an even healthier respect for what the pilots of the RAF and the Luftwaffe had to go through. Imagine flying at 250-300 miles per hour and trying to pick out an opponent amongst a bunch of specks around and above and below you, trying to get behind one of them and hoping to get off a 2-3 second machine gun burst while attempting to get in some quick glances to make sure no one is sneaking up on you! You had a very good chance of not surviving your first few missions. If you got past the first few missions you then had enough experience to have a pretty good chance of surviving, but it was unlikely that you would become an ace. An ace was defined as a pilot that had made 5 kills. Mr. Bungay estimates that only about 5% of the pilots on either side became aces, because it was a rare person who could be both a great pilot and an accurate marksman under the circumstances. The author asserts that the Luftwaffe never really came close to winning the Battle of Britain. German Intelligence overestimated the number of RAF planes they were shooting down and underestimated the ability of British industry to replace the aircraft that were destroyed. The Germans hoped to win a war of attrition. They thought they could shoot down 5 times as many planes as they themselves lost. The RAF actually shot down more planes, and after the first few months had both more planes and more pilots than when they had started. Themain strategic failing of the Luftwaffe was that they made no serious attempt to knock out the British radar network. That meant the RAF was almost always ready for whatever the Luftwaffe would throw at them, so planes were rarely caught on the ground, as they had been in Poland. Mr. Bungay does not neglect the human element of the story. For example, he tells the tale of Patrick and Tony Woods-Scawen, two brothers who were pilots and who fell in love with the same girl, Una Lawrence. Patrick was engaged to Una but Tony \\"stole her away\\" and married her. Tony had very poor eyesight but passed the vision test for pilots by memorizing the eye chart. Both brothers were killed during the Battle of Britain. One of the more touching pages of the book contains a photo of the two brothers at the top, happy and smiling, while underneath is another photo of Una and her father-in-law, looking very sad, standing outside Buckingham Palace while photographers took a picture of the Distinguished Flying Crosses that the brothers had been awarded.....	2002-10-10
US	51300959	R1HR6JU6ZCGVV	0312276737	856299566	The Last Kaiser: The Life of Wilhelm II	Books	3	37	39	N	N	Doesn't Quite Come Together	I actually feel a little bit guilty giving this book only 3 stars! It is clear from the endnotes that Mr. MacDonogh did a prodigious amount of research, almost all of it in the primary German sources. There are many amusing and interesting bits and pieces.....little details concerning the way William dressed and ate; many clever and sarcastic comments about their contemporaraies made by William and Bismarck; a description of how William passed the time of day after he was forced to abdicate (he loved to chop wood, and at his first \\"home\\" in exile, Amerongen, he managed to chop up some 14,000 trees- giving away most of the wood to the poor). And even though it is interesting to read about many of these things, the end result is oddly unsatisfying. It is almost as though the author found lots of fascinating material, knew he had to include it, but couldn't turn everything into a coherent whole. Mr. MacDonogh quotes so many contrasting opinions that we are left with all of the following: William was an anti-Semite; William was not an anti-Semite; William was brilliant and could have been another Frederick The Great; William was lazy; William had boundless energy and was always traveling and making speeches; William was mentally unbalanced; William could have done more to prevent the slide into WWI; William's hands were tied by the military and by right-wing members of the government; William wanted an alliance with the British; no he didn't; William wanted an alliance with the Russians; no he didn't.....I think you get the idea! In the end, we are left with no clear picture of William as a person or as a ruler, nor are we left with a clear picture of what was going on in Germany in the crucial years leading up to 1914. Imagine that Georges Seurat started to paint a portrait of someone, but by the time the picture was finished it had mutated into a Jackson Pollock! That's probably the best description I could give you of how I felt by the end of this book...	2002-10-09
US	51300959	RKNPC5WR52GP1	0006380832	722940603	Empires of the Monsoon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Will Sweep You Along	I was lucky to pick up this book by chance in a wonderful bookshop in Ottawa, Canada. I had never heard of this book or the author and was just browsing. It was a great find! Mr. Hall has done a prodigious amount of research but this book is the opposite of stuffy and pedantic. It is a tribute to Mr. Hall that even after 500 pages you will be sorry that you have finished. He leaves you wanting more and fortunately he gives you a very nice bibliography which will allow you to satisfy your curiousity. This book moves along at a breakneck pace and sweeps you along from place to place all along the coasts of East Africa and the Horn Of Africa up into the Persian Gulf and along the west coast of India. A few early chapters even take you over to China and Indonesia. There are enough interesting characters to populate a novel by Tolstoy and you will learn a lot of interesting and horrible things that they never taught you about in school. What was done in the name of religion by both Christians and Muslims is very sad. An educated person might not be surprised by the fact of man's inhumanity but I think you will be surprised by the quantity and nature of what went on, and by the sheer joie de vivre of some of these folks! To give you only one \\"small\\" example, Vasco da Gama (who was held up to me in school as being a \\"great explorer\\") once won a small battle off of the coast of India and when he took some of his foes captive he cut off their ears, noses and hands and then put the poor wretches on a ship and set the ship ablaze. When the fire was over not everyone was dead so da Gama took the survivors and had them hoisted up on the masts of one of his own ships and let his archers have some target practice....This book is full of adventure, greed, hypocrisy and self-delusion. In other words, it is a wonderful mirror held up to life. Enjoy!	2002-10-08
US	51300959	R3ATW842KVHDKO	0312286961	523672310	In the Lion's Court: Power, Ambition and Sudden Death in the Reign of Henry VIII	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Fresh Approach....	I recently read Alison Weir's \\"Henry VIII: The King And His Court\\" and it was interesting to read Derek Wilson's book covering Henry's reign, but looked at from a different perspective. Ms. Weir concentrated more on people and personalities, especially Henry's wives. Mr. Wilson chose to concentrate more on politics and religion. Both books are rewarding and since the approach taken by each author is different you get a fuller picture of the times by reading both.I suppose the main thought you are left with after reading Mr. Wilson's book is what a precarious existence anyone connected with Henry's court led! We are not just talking about his wives but anyone involved in the political or religious life of the court. As Henry got older and his once robust health began to deteriorate he became very moody and unpredictable. Both Wilson and Weir make the point that Henry was very athletic up until he was about 40 years old or so. He was a very vain man and could not accept his physical decline. He was also used to getting his own way and couldn't tolerate it when his desires and wishes were thwarted. He could be genial one moment and lash out verbally or physically the next. He could be ruthless if he felt that you couldn't give him what he wanted. In that case you were disposable- as several wives found out, as well as people such as Thomas Wolsey and Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell. You come away wondering why anyone would marry this man or choose to work for him. It was like being next to a ticking timebomb.....One example will suffice to show that there were seemingly no limits to Henry's ruthlessness. When he was intent on having his son as his heir he wanted his daughter Mary (by Catherine of Aragon) to assure him that she would not \\"give any trouble\\" about the succession. He sent over Thomas Cromwell and the Duke of Norfolk to play \\"good cop, bad cop\\". Cromwell was the \\"good cop\\" and when it became clear that his approach wasn't doing the trick, Norfolk screamed at Mary and told her that if \\"she were his daughter he would smash her head against the wall until it was as soft as a boiled apple\\".Violent times they were, and filled with violent people. Henry, without flinching, would allow the burning of \\"heretics\\", including digging up someone found after death to have been a \\"heretic\\" and having the corpse burned. You could be sent to the Tower of London at the drop of a hat, and be in constant fear that it was not only your hat that might drop off....Try both of these books, as they complement each ther nicely and are in no way redundant. I don't think you will be disappointed!	2002-10-07
US	51300959	R2HUDVSC0BE49R	006018891X	709991744	The Man Who Broke Napoleon's Codes	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The Reign In Spain (And Portugal)	This is a solid, workmanlike effort about a little-known man (George Scovell) and a little-discussed aspect (codes and codebreaking) of the Peninsular War. There are enough maps and enough detailed descriptions of the various battles to satisfy fans of military history and enough biographical information and anecdotes to satisfy the general reader. If you are not mathematically inclined you need not be concerned as the information about how the codes came to be deciphered is pretty basic.Most interesting to me, more so than the battles and the codebreaking, were the human interest aspects of the book. The Duke of Wellington comes across as a snob who wanted to be surrounded by aristocratic subordinates and as a person who had nothing but disdain for the common soldier. On the other hand, although he didn't want to socialize with &quot;the lower orders&quot; he could and would recognize and promote people of talent. However, it is certainly not to his credit that later on in life he seemed to have developed &quot;selective amnesia&quot; regarding George Scovell's codebreaking contributions- probably because he felt it would take away from his own mystique.It was fascinating to read about the contribution made by the Spanish guerillas. If they had not intercepted so many French military dispatches and delivered them to the British, Scovell could not have had the success he had. Without the intelligence that Scovell provided things would have been much harder for Wellington.Another interesting aspect of the book was to read about all the bickering and backstabbing going on between Napoleon's brother, who was King of Spain, and Marhsal Soult and Marshal Marmont. If the French could ever have worked together instead of everyone only looking out for themselves, which caused insufficient manpower to counterbalance Wellington's forces, the Peninsular War could have played out to a different conclusion.This was a very enjoyable book, which should appeal to the general reader.	2002-10-04
US	51300959	R12PULUK2M1869	0847805468	722082496	Matisse	Books	5	50	50	N	N	The Bible On Matisse	I noticed that this is coming back into print in November 2002, so I figured I'd write this review. If you are a fan of Matisse, you should snap up this book. It is an awesome achievement by Mr. Schneider. There is a tremendous amount of biographical data here, as well as a wealth of reproductions- both color and black and white. One caveat, though. This is definitely not for the casual reader! There is a lot of detailed analysis of the paintings included- such things as Matisse's theories on the use of color and shape; the tremendous amount of work and thought that went into each work in order to create color harmony and a balance of all the pictorial elements, etc. Mr. Schneider respects the reader, so some of this stuff can be a real challenge! But I found it very worthwhile! Matisse's paintings are deceptive, at least to the layperson. They seem soothing and simple. Well, I can promise you that after reading this wonderful book you may still find the paintings soothing, but when you realize what went into the process of creating them you will never again think of them as being simple! This is one of those rare books that opens your eyes and makes you look at something in a completely new way.Reviewer Note: Please be aware that the book I am reviewing is the over 700 page book written by Pierre Schneider, NOT the much shorter book written by Mr. Jacobus and only translated by Mr. Schneider!	2002-10-04
US	51300959	R2TW0J14C8I2R0	037550432X	527698945	Route 66 A.D. :  On the Trail of Ancient Roman Tourists	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	He Came, He Saw, She Concurred....	This is the best travel book I've read in a long, long time. Mr. Perrottet seamlessly joins together information about ancient Roman tourists with amusing, wry commentary on his current-day efforts to follow in their footsteps. The book is entertaining as well as educational. I've read the other reviews of this book that are posted at this webpage and they are very good.....so I hesitated about putting in my &quot;two cents&quot;. However, I enjoyed the book so much that in the end I felt I had to write something! What can I add to what has been said already? Well, one of the many interesting parts of the book is when Tony and his girlfriend Lesley make their way to the misty and mystical mountains of Arcadia, in Greece. They visit a monastery, and Tony has a philosophical conversation with Brother Yianni, a young English speaking monk. To quote from the book: &quot;He (Yianni) peered at me significantly. 'I wearied of so much searching. Moving about the world like....a ghost. The Chinese philosophers say: When you are restless, stand still; when you are at peace, then move.' 'I know the theory.' I flinched, a little suspicious that this was a prepared spiel to convert wayward travelers. 'Personally, I'm quite a fan of senseless movement. I find it therapeutic.' Brother Yianni smiled indulgently. 'One who travels is running away from something. As much as any drunkard.' There was something appealingly surreal about debating the value of travel with a monk in the mountains of Arcadia. It's an age-old argument, and one that certainly went on among ancient Romans. At the birth of cultural tourism, there was no shortage of world wanderers who, after their journeys, discovered that they had found no inner contentment or wisdom.&quot; But in the space of a few pages the author can go from sobering philosophical discussion to the following description as he and Lesley &quot;hit the beach&quot; at Mykonos: &quot;Super-Paradise (the name of the beach!) was certainly something to behold. Every inch of the rapidly eroding shoreline was covered with blue plastic chairs; on top of these were hundreds of bronzed nightclubbers trying to sleep off their hangovers. This must have been difficult, given the cacophonous activity in the water. There were water-skiers, hang gliders, and plastic bananas, all being dragged around by speedboats; Jet Skis roared, outboards whined. But more impressive, right behind the beach were six disco bars, each with its own DJ, each competing to blast techno rhythms into our sun-addled brains.&quot; It's not easy to combine the historical information with the contemporary travelogue, but Mr. Perrottet pulls it off quite well! It's really a tribute to his organizational skills and sheer writing ability. I'd love to read a novel by him! He has wonderful powers of observation and the ability to translate what he sees into prose that is, all at the same time, quirky, poignant and profound. If I had one regret after finishing this book, (beside the fact that I'd finished it!) it was that we didn't get to know more about Lesley. She walked countless miles alongside the author, endured hot and cold, rain and seasickness, and staying in some fleabag hotels. All while advancing through her pregnancy! Must be quite a lady.....	2002-10-01
US	51300959	R2Z6SVHP06ZFR2	0312261969	386166177	Louis XIV	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well-Rounded Portrait Of The Sun King	I found this to be a very well thought out, and well-written, biography. In the space of less than 500 pages we are given a very complete picture of a remarkable man, a man who came to the throne as a child and was king from 1643 until his death in 1715. The author is admirably even-handed. Louis' faults are not ignored: In his youth and up until middle-age he was an inveterate womanizer. When he was through with a mistress, she was carted off to a convent. (There was a joke making the rounds at the time that the quickest way to salvation for a woman was via the King's bed!) Louis also had an inordinate fondness for war and glory. Besides the obvious cost in lives for soldiers of all the countries involved in these conflicts, France was bankrupted. This did not stop Louis from building and renovating- Versailles; Marly; Fontainebleau, etc. One of the many strengths of this book is that Mr. Dunlop can rightfully criticize this irresponsible behavior and profligate spending; then, he can turn right around and describe the architectural splendor, the beautiful gardens and fountains, etc. For, as Montesquieu asked: \\"Who could have told that the King established the greatness of France by building Versailles and Marly?\\"      Another glaring \\"negative\\" in the rule of The Sun King was his persecution of the Huguenots, via his 1685 Revocation of the Edict of Nantes. But without making excuses or trying to justify what Louis did, Mr. Dunlop puts this in perspective. To quote the author: \\"Tolerance enjoys a high moral status in Western civilisation today, but it exists in inverse proportion to a general decline in commitment to any creed or moral code. Total tolerance denies, in effect, the possibility of any objective truth in either religion or ethics. Intolerance, a logical outcome of total commitment or total conviction, is therefore more typical of the seventeenth century because of the often fanatical firmness with which the differing faiths were held.\\" Likewise, regarding Louis' fondness for the ladies, the author shows us both the weakness of Louis in his giving in (often!) to temptation but also shows us the difficulties involved in resisting.... If you are brought up to believe that you are God's anointed, could you refuse the advances of beautiful, intelligent, charming women...some of whom were quite ruthless in the means they used to get a previous mistress out of the way? For bedding the King wasn't only a romantic achivement- the families of these women would \\"egg them on,\\" hoping to gain political influence at court. Louis was aware that people were trying to use him, and he was always on his guard.     This book is a wonderful blend of the political, the philosophical, the religious and the military aspects of Louis' reign....as well as containing much enjoyable material on the architecture and the gardens of the royal residences. The mistresses, the gossip and the hypocrisy and political infighting at court are certainly not neglected! With extensive excerpts from the diaries and letters of Louis, Saint-Simon, Vauban, Mme de Maintenon, etc., we get a beautiful balance of the personal and the public life of The Sun King. This is a very impressive book.	2002-09-30
US	51300959	R10255CH69SHOT	0316285943	604534040	The Young Hamilton: A Biography	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A MASTERFUL MIXTURE OF THE PERSONAL AND POLITICAL	In the bibliography of this book Mr. Flexner wrote that he felt that the real Hamilton had become obscured through the years through the writings of people who were either too fawning or too critical, depending on their political biases. Mr. Flexner therefore tried to get back to original sources as much as possible. Reading quotations from Hamilton's correspondence is one of the great pleasures of this book. But there are many things that make this book special. The author has a smooth, easy-to-read style. I have read elsewhere, in connection with one of Mr. Flexner's volumes on George Washington, someone complaining that the style is stilted or &quot;old-fashioned.&quot; I heartily disagree with that criticism. Mr. Flexner was born in 1908 and this book was first published when the author was 70, but there is nothing &quot;old-fashioned&quot; about the prose. The style is actually quite modern. Another thing I enjoyed about the book was that the author went into the psychiatric reasons for Hamilton's sometimes aggressive and impulsive behavior, but he did so in a reasonable manner. You didn't feel as though you were being bludgeoned with analytical arguments but Mr. Flexner &quot;gently&quot; gave some commonsense and logical reasons for why Hamilton behaved the way he did e.g.-the stigma of his illegitimate birth, his mother's irresponsible behavior, being brought up in the West Indies and being left to basically fend for himself at an early age, etc. <br />I also enjoyed the way Mr. Flexner concentrated on Hamilton's service as aide-de-camp to George Washington during the Revolutionary War. There is a lot of interesting military history here, dealing with the battles fought on Long Island and in Trenton and Princeton and Monmouth, as well as Yorktown. There are wonderful gems of information, such as Washington's propensity to lose his temper amongst his close aides, when he wasn't on &quot;public view&quot; and felt that he could &quot;let his hair down&quot; abit. Other interesting scenes include: at the Battle of Princeton where a patriot cannonball went through the window of Princeton college and slammed into a portrait of George II that was hanging on the wall, &quot;decapitating&quot; the king. (The patriots took the portrait down and &quot;repaired&quot; it by having an artist paint a scene with George Washington in it!); The Battle of Trenton, where the patriot army celebrated by drinking up the liquor the Hessians had left behind. Washington wanted to pursue the Hessians but was forced to give up on the idea as his men were in no shape to do anymore fighting!; Finally, in the section dealing with the Battle of Yorktown, Mr. Flexner mentions that shortly before the battle word had spread that a British force, led by Benedict Arnold no less, had been so upset by the strong resistance they had encountered in trying to take a fortress in New London, Connecticut, that the British had executed the men who had wanted to surrender to them when the fighting was over. The patriot army at Yorktown wanted to get revenge on the British and Washington had to give a speech before the battle that he basically didn't want his men to &quot;lower themselves&quot; to that level. If British troops wanted to surrender the surrender should be accepted and they should be taken prisoner. The troops did obey Washington's directive...<br />On a final note, I felt Mr. Flexner was very fair in this book. The author looked at Hamilton from all angles and praised the good things about him- his intelligence and hard work and sincere interest in doing what he felt was good for the future of the country- but also criticized his sometimes rash and impulsive behavior, and the author didn't gloss over Hamilton's general disdain for humanity!<br />This was a really excellent book and well-worth your time.	2002-01-18
US	51300959	R2K19SUREDER6Y	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Revolutionary Renaissance Man	In the last 16 months there have been some heavy-hitters in the world of American political biography. Besides this book, the books by David McCullough and Edmund Morris, on John Adams and Theodore Roosevelt, respectively, come to mind. (I apologize if I am leaving out any other &quot;biggies&quot;.) I have read all three of the above mentioned works and I have to say that I think the Brands book is the best of the bunch. That statement is not meant to demean the quality of the other two books. They are both wonderful books. But Brands has surpassed McCullough and Morris with this particular book.<br />Why do I say this? There are several reasons. One reason is that Brands is equally good with narrative and analysis. His way with words is equal to the other two authors. High praise indeed, because if you look at the Morris book there is great writing on nearly every page. Brands has managed to accomplish this also. Regarding Benjamin Vaughan, who espoused the virtues of hemlock to Franklin as a treatment for Franklin's kidney stone, Brands writes that he had &quot;suggested a sub-Socratic dose.&quot; Regarding Franklin's voyage from Boston to New York, as a teenager, where his foray into vegetarianism ran headlong into the smell of fresh cod being cooked on board: &quot;Before his vegetarian days he, like most Bostonians, had loved fish: fried, steamed, boiled, stewed. The present smell conjured recollections of memorable meals past, and he decided to revisit the argument for interspecies pacifism. To his delight he discovered a loophole. 'I recollected that when the fish were opened, I saw smaller fish taken out of their stomachs; then I thought, if you eat one another, I don't see why we mayn't eat you.'&quot; But besides writing well, when dealing with Franklin's political life the author is able to explain and analyze and make things clear for the lay reader. (As Brands is a professor of history he has the advantage of his teaching background in this regard.)<BR>Although the narrative was wonderful in the Morris book I found him a bit weak on political analysis. Likewise with McCullough. This could have something to do with their non-academic backgrounds. I also felt that McCullough went a bit overboard in his &quot;Jefferson bashing&quot;, as though he felt he needed to build Adams up by tearing Jefferson down. Brands does very little &quot;bashing&quot; of anyone. He has a few comments towards the end of the book regarding Adams' jealousy of Franklin, but it doesn't turn into a diatribe.<br />Brands has the good sense just to tell you about the remarkable life of Franklin. We all know about the kite and lightning rods but what about Franklin's invention of a musical instrument (the Armonica); his creation of a more efficient stove for heating (the Franklin stove); inventing what he called &quot;double spectacles&quot; or bifocals, as we know them; etc. When Franklin got to Philadelphia he started a public library and fire brigades; later on in life he speculated on scientific matters- the Gulf Stream and a geological theory that was admittedly very rudimentary and not developed- but that had elements of plate tectonics in it. Remarkable. Oh, and something else..... After observing some black children in an &quot;experimental&quot; school setting he came to the conclusion that  there were no intrinsic differences in the races. So, not only was he &quot;anti-slavery&quot; but he truly believed that with education all races would be equal. This was very radical thinking for the times....<br />It is a major accomplishment that Mr. Brands managed to fit everything into this one volume, without skimping on any aspects of Franklin's life. A truly wonderful book.	2002-01-04
US	51300959	R2TIIA2BI60U3P	0395856035	157256206	Robert Frost: A Biography	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A REVIEW, FROM SOMEWHERE NORTH OF BOSTON...	This is a solid, workmanlike biography of Robert Frost. It will probably appeal more to the reader who wants to know about Frost the man as opposed to the reader who is more interested in the poetry. There are some excerpts from the poetry but not a lot, and very little analysis. Probably the best thing about the book is the balanced attitude Mr. Meyers takes towards the poet. The author doesn't gloss over Frost's faults, but doesn't demonize him either. Yes, Frost had a tremendous ego. (Show me an artistic person that doesn't!) He loved to receive praise. He &quot;collected&quot; honorary degrees. Towards the end of his life he made it clear that he wanted degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, so that he could equal the achievement of Longfellow and James Russell Lowell. He was famous enough and knew enough of the &quot;right&quot; people that he was able to get what he wanted. He was extremely competitive and made nasty comments about other poets who he perceived to be a &quot;threat&quot;, both in terms of popularity and talent- such as Carl Sandburg, Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot. Frost made fun of Sandburg's self-created &quot;folksy&quot; persona- playing his &quot;geetar&quot; and combing his long, white hair over his eyes. But Mr. Meyers makes clear that Frost wasn't alone in his competitiveness. Though Sandburg was apparently a very nice fellow, Eliot and Pound had plenty of nasty things to say about Frost and other poets as well. Where Mr. Meyers is most sympathetic is in discussing Frost's relationship with his family. In the past, Frost has been portrayed as a selfish &quot;monster&quot; who ignored his wife and children and caused their unhappiness, mental problems and, in the case of Frost's son Carol, a suicide. It seems clear that mental illness ran in Frost's family, going back at least to his father and mother. Frost heard &quot;voices&quot; in his youth and they came back in times of severe stress, such as right after Frost's wife Elinor died in 1938. Frost had an unnatural fear of the dark and apparently suffered from some degree of depression. He managed to overcome these problems and to live a long, creative life. He did the best he could to be a good husband and father. He remained faithful to his wife despite the temptation of female students &quot;throwing&quot; themselves at him. (After all, even in middle-age, he was a handsome man, as well as being charismatic, artistic and famous.) He tried to be emotionally present for his children, giving advice (if also at times trying to control them) and he was always generous with money. Again, this book is strong on Frost's personal life. But it is a bit weak on analyzing the poetry and it covers Frost's teaching career in too cursory a manner, &quot;flitting&quot; about from place to place too quickly. Some of this is inherent in Mr. Meyers' decision to write a relatively brief biography. He tries to cover in 350 pages the personal life and career of a man who lived to be 88 years old, and who remained creative for approximately 70 of those years. Mr. Meyers had to make choices about what to include and what to leave out and other things had to be compressed. Unfortunately, it shows. This book is not the definitive biography of Frost. That remains to be written. But it is a good introduction, a book that succeeds in being fair-minded and will leave you wanting to know more about the man and the poetry.	2001-12-26
US	51300959	RQFBVPBDNLN8D	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	DOESN'T PUT ALL OF HIS EGGS IN ONE BASKET.....	This is a book that gives you &quot;The Big Picture&quot; concerning how the Allies won WWII, but manages not to neglect &quot;The Little Picture&quot; either- no mean feat for a book that is only 330 pages long. The author doesn't have any one grand theme. He methodically takes you through all of the areas that he thinks are important and zooms in on each of these areas- brilliantly analyzing each area and always backing his opinions up with some very telling statistics. Mr. Overy also makes it clear how it was not pre-ordained that the Allies would win. Certainly up until 1943 things could have gone the other way. As the Duke of Wellington said in another context, &quot;It was a close run thing...&quot;<br />The areas that Mr. Overy concentrates on are: the naval war in the Pacific; the submarine war in the Atlantic; Stalingrad and Kursk; the bombing campaign; the invasion of France; mass production and technology; allies and leadership; etc. Within these large issues the author never forgets to include telling details. One example is when he discusses the Battle of Midway and explains how 10 bombs in the space of a few minutes made a huge difference. The reason? Japanese planes were caught &quot;with their pants down.&quot; They had shot down so many of the lumbering American torpedo-bombers that they had to land on their supporting aircraft carriers to refuel. The carriers were left with no air cover and American dive bombers were able to swoop in with no oppostion. A few well-placed bombs ignited all of that fuel, which also blew up the bombs the carriers were carrying and in just a few minutes all the Japanese carriers were out of commission. Another example- in the submarine Battle of the Atlantic, what 2 things made a huge difference in turning the tide against the Germans? One was attaching an extra fuel tank to Allied bombers so they could extend their range into a &quot;dead spot&quot; in the ocean where previously the U-Boats had been safe from attack. The 2nd thing was the seemingly simple device of fitting a searchlight on Allied bombers so they could surprise U-Boats that surfaced at night to attack...<br />Mr. Overy is especially enlightening on how the Allies managed to outproduce the Axis once Russia and the United States were attacked. The Germans had been preparing for war for years. Why did they lose their initial advantage? Mr. Overy's hypothesis is that one reason is that the German economy was &quot;neither fish nor fowl.&quot; It wasn't centralized enough on one hand or sufficiently capitalistic on the other. It was an inefficient mish-mash that turned out a bewildering variety of weapons- too many types of tanks, too many kinds of planes, etc. There was not enough standardization to allow sufficient mass production and when things broke down there were insufficient spare parts to supply all the different &quot;makes and models.&quot; In comparison, the Soviet economy was highly centralized. Despite being surprised by the German invasion in 1941 the Russians managed to dismantle their factories, reassemble them further East (including Siberia!)and, within 2 years, outproduce the Germans. They stuck to making just a few models, keeping things as simple as possible. Likewise, the highly capitalistic U.S. economy was able to switch over to a war footing and, using mass-production techniques, within a year or so we were outproducing both the Germans and the Japanese. Mr. Overy gives an eye-opening exmple of this ability to &quot;change gears.&quot; In 1941 the American auto industry produced three and a half million passenger cars. During the war production dropped to just 139 cars. (Yes, you read that figure correctly!) By 1945 the industry supplied almost all military vehicles and tanks and 1/3 of the machine guns. The Ford company alone produced more army equipment during the war than Italy!<br />Each section of the book goes into this kind of interesting detail, so that you have concrete examples of what Mr. Overy is talking about. No great abstract, philosophical theories but plenty of down-to-earth theories, logically argued and backed up with plenty of statistics. A great book!	2001-12-20
US	51300959	R5PQVY41GVPIY	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	4	10	13	N	N	CREATIVE KILLING	Mr. Hanson has come up with a very unusual and interesting book. His main thesis is that nations that have developed along &quot;western&quot;, (i.e.-ultimately going back to the Greeks) democratic lines have the advantage, militarily, over nations that have not. He picks out 9 examples from the historical record to prove his point and, overall, he is pretty convincing. <br />Why should western cultures have the upper-hand in confrontations with non-western cultures? According to Mr. Hanson some of the reasons are: the western warrior is highly motivated- he or she feels that one's freedom is being defended, as well as one's property, whereas the non-western warrior may only be fighting to protect a dictator or a small-group of people that are in charge; western military structure tends to be more decentralized than non-western military structure, with room for dissent and improvisation; capitalism encourages innovation and rapid change- so that western weapons are superior to the weapons produced by other cultures. <br />The best parts of the book deal with the actual nuts-and-bolts of the battles. Mr. Hanson writes well and many sections are exciting to read, if a bit on the gory side. It is very interesting to read, especially for a novice such as myself, the strategy and tactics Hannibal used to defeat the Romans at Cannae- he had the center of his line fall back so that the Romans could advance; the Romans did not realize until too late that this was a trap and Hannibal had other infantry and cavalry waiting to attack the Roman flanks. Likewise, it was fascinating to read how Cortes was able to use sulphur from a local volcano in Mexico to make the gunpowder that he needed in his struggle against the Aztecs. There are many other equally memorable sections concerning the various battles.<br />Where the book falls short is that when Mr. Hanson strays too far from the actual battles his writing tends to become redundant. He hammers home the same points over and over, as though he felt he was teaching a none-too-bright undergraduate class with limited attention spans- and the inability to remember something that was already mentioned five pages ago. Fortunately, before this becomes a major drawback, Mr. Hanson always gets back on track concerning one battle or another.<br />I also wish that the last chapter, on the Tet offensive, had not been included. In all the other chapters Mr. Hanson is careful to stick to his thesis and differentiate how both sides fought. In the chapter on Tet he is clearly uninterested in how the North Vietnamese fought and with contrasting it to how the U.S. and the South Vietnamese fought. He appears to have some sort of axe to grind concerning Vietnam and he really only seems concerned with showing how the U.S. was not defeated militarily- that our troops fought bravely and just as well as in WWII, for example. I have no problem with the author's argument, it's just that this chapter clearly didn't fit in with the other chapters. Perhaps the author should write another book just dealilng with the Vietnam conflict....<br />These relatively small complaints aside, this is a well-written, informative, logically argued, thoughtful and thought-provoking book.	2001-12-14
US	51300959	R3NUGO7TI6P9IG	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	BRILLIANTLY WRITTEN ....BRING ON VOLUME THREE !!	The critical and public reaction to this wonderful book ought to go a long way towards washing out the bad taste in his mouth Mr. Morris was left with after the &quot;Dutch&quot; fiasco. &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; is so well written that it stands head-and-shoulders above almost any non-fiction book (not just biography)in recent memory. I don't think I'm going out on a limb in predicting another Pulitzer Prize for the author. Yes, that's how good this book is.<br />It is only a slight exaggeration to say that you could open up this book to almost any page and come away with at least one memorable sentence or paragraph. Mr. Morris has the ability to paint personalities with words, with a few impressionistic strokes of the pen. One of the best things about the book is that it isn't only T.R. who is portrayed- many, many people who came into the presidential orbit from 1901-1909 are brought to life in these pages. Here is an example, concerning J.P.Morgan: &quot;There was something volcanic about Morgan. The hot glare and fiery complexion, flushing so deep that the engorged nose seemed about to burst, the smoldering cigar, the mountainous shoulders- merely to look at him was to register tremors. Yet interlocutors soon discovered that Morgan's sparks and smoke were a kind of screen, concealing someone essentially quiet and shy, almost clerical. As a youth, he had dreamed of becoming a professor of mathematics; he was equally attracted to the rituals of the Episcopal Church, in which he had served as a vestryman for forty years.... He sought relief from numbers by collecting indiscriminate quantities of great or ghastly art. His Madison Avenue library bulged with uncut volumes. Occasionally, in country homes, Morgan would fumble at a passing woman.&quot; Morris does this over and over throughout the book, seemingly effortlessly. Notice I said &quot;seemingly!&quot;<br />Morris can capture a scene just as well as he can capture a personality. Here he is on the signing of the Panama Canal treaty: &quot;Conscious that Dr. Amador might at any minute knock on Hay's door, Bunau-Varilla was quite willing to forgo the reading. He had not thought to bring a seal, so the Secretary offered him a choice of sealing rings. Bunau-Varilla chose one embossed with the Hay coat of arms. The clock stood at 6:40 p.m. Pens scratched across parchment. Wax melted on silk. Two oceans brimmed closer, ready to spill.&quot; Great stuff!<br />After you finish reading this book T.R. will be with you forever, a force of nature- rising above the tired cliche &quot;one of a kind.&quot; It will be readily apparent why, if he had wanted to run again in 1908, Roosevelt would have had no difficulty being re-elected by a wide margin.<br />I and countless others had to wait 20 years for this book. I only hope we don't have to wait another 20 for volume three!	2001-12-03
US	51300959	RFX9MAPRCCTRW	038572019X	380118508	Sprezzatura: 50 Ways Italian Genius Shaped the World	Books	5	17	20	N	N	50 Ways To Learn Your History!	Right away with this book, in chapter one, you know that you are in for a treat. Regarding the Roman calendar, the authors write: &quot;In those days, (circa 700 B.C.) January and February didn't yet exist- at least in the calendar- since Roman farmers didn't have much fieldwork to do in that dead part of the year after the last crops had been harvested and stored. After a two month hiatus, the new year began in March with preparation of the ground for the next season's crop.&quot;Did you already know that? Then try this one from the chapter on Julius Caesar: &quot;When he saw Brutus draw his dagger, Caesar covered his head with his purple toga and fell to the floor. 'Kai su teknon,' he said in Greek ('You, too, my child- and not Shakespeare's Latin 'Et tu, Brute?') before being stabbed in the groin by the man whose mother, Servilia, had been his favorite mistress. The dictator died at the base of Pompey's statue, bleeding from twenty-three wounds. Cicero wrote that he had 'feasted his eyes on the just death of a tyrant.'&quot;&quot;Kai su teknon&quot;.....now that is something I never knew!!I think the above excerpts give you a pretty accurate feel for how the book is written. It is broken up into 50 chapters, each approximately 7 pages or so. You may not be interested in every single chapter, but I only found my mind wandering in 1 or 2. If you're a fairly well-read person you may already be familiar with some of the material, but I guarantee you'll still learn a lot from this book. The authors have done a great job of bringing together a lot of material on very different subjects and turning it into something coherent. And in just 7 pages per topic they have managed to present the essence of something without &quot;dumbing it down&quot;. Not an easy thing to do!Let me finish this review by giving you, fittingly, the final paragraph from the wonderful chapter on Michelangelo: &quot;In one of his poems he describes himself as broken in body from his labors and cooped up in his tiny dark house with its thousand spiders and cobwebs and human excrement just outside the entrance. He wonders just what good it has done him to have created so many 'puppets' with his art, which has now left him 'so poor and old, a slave to others' whims,/ that if I die not soon I am undone.'&quot;	2001-11-21
US	51300959	R1DIQU6M0O88JS	0380796058	274583413	The Day the American Revolution Began : 19 April 1775	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	AN AMERICAN QUILT	What a remarkable book this is! At first I was a little put off by the style.......a lot of quick cutting from one thing to the next, with a lot of short, snappy paragraphs. But I adjusted to the style and settled down to really enjoy the historical quilt that Mr. Hallahan has put together. The style works because it really conveys the excitement of the times, and the confusion of the times as well! The author writes about Lexington and Concord but also of the events leading up to April 19th, 1775- and the aftermath. He starts off in Boston, telling you what the patriots and the British were up to. This takes up about the first one-third of the book. Then he moves southward, following the news as it spread through the colonies. We move through New York, Philadelphia, Williamsburg and on to London. Along the way Mr. Hallahan provides wonderful, succinct descriptions of both the people and the places that are important to the narrative. The book provides almost an embarrassment of riches. You really get the feel of each place that is visited and in just a few paragraphs or a couple of pages you will feel that the author has truly captured the personality of whichever person he has chosen to zoom in on. <br />Let me get myself out of the picture for awhile and give you a few examples of how well Mr. Hallahan writes:<br />On John Adams's temper: &quot;As he became more sure of himself and his philosophic view of the world, his temperament became more volcanic. In town meetings he often bellowed with fury at his opponents, hammering home his points by pounding his fist on his palm. He had become formidable. Frightening. He could not even read a book calmly. His 3,000 volume library bristles with his marginalia. 'Pitiful!', he scrawls. 'Thou Louse, Flea, Tic, Wasp or whatever Vermin thou art!'<br />The use and abuse of the press by the colonials (too bad they didn't teach us this stuff in school!): &quot;The press distorted the news and also suppressed it at will. Significant events such as the vicious assault on customs inspectors by Sam Adams's mob were not reported...With a crowd of over 300 cheering, the inspectors were...pitched headlong into the harbor...the collector and the comptroller of customs (were) hauled through the streets with taunts and shoves and punches...&quot;<br />A little gem of a description of General Nathaniel Greene: &quot;During the war, while he was on military service, he had his ironworks converted into a cannon factory. His troops got used to seeing him halt a march, make a cup of tea, and, slipping a book out of his pocket, become totally lost in his reading. He was destined to become the most brilliant of all of Washington's generals.&quot;<br />John Hancock arriving in Philadelphia: &quot;Clattering noisily through the streets of the city in his gilded carriage, he would ride preceded, flanked, and followed by a cadre of mounted horsemen. Restaurateurs would hate to see them coming for they were raucous, unsettling, quarrelsome, disturbing, and given to consuming great quantities of food and drink- especially drink. Then they would gallop off into the night without paying the bill.&quot;<br />Positively Dickensian in terms of plot and in terms of the fascinating, swirling cast of characters. You will finish this book wanting to read biographies of about 15-20 different people: John Adams, Samuel Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Dr. Benjamin Rush, Thomas Paine, Gen. Gage, King George III, and so on and so on........<br />A marvelous read.	2001-11-09
US	51300959	RFPVTQTG0ALV7	0312187084	100152270	Constantinople: City of the World's Desire, 1453-1924	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	WHATEVER YOUR HEART DESIRES...	This book is a wonderful social and cultural history of the Ottoman Empire. The author provides a lot of fascinating tidbits about all aspects of life in the city. This is both enlightening and entertaining and underneath it all Mr. Mansel wants to make an important point: this is a place where East meets West; a place where, much of the time, different religions and different cultures have been able to live in peace, side by side. This has obviously not always been the case- but when during human history can you cover a span of 500 years and not find conflict?<br />After 1453, Jews were encouraged to immigrate from Europe. This was not a policy based on humanitarian considerations. It was based on economic considerations. But, still, it was done. In contrast to western Europe, &quot;there were no restrictions on freedom of trade and few limits on the construction of synagogues. Jews soon flourished...After the first decades, their history is that rarity in Jewish history, a happy story. In Constantinople the words pogrom, ghetto, inquisition had no meaning.&quot; <br />Mr. Mansel deals with many interesting topics. Some examples:<br />Marriage and the relations between men and women: &quot;For a rich heterosexual male with a taste for variety, however, Constantinople could be a paradise. Some changed wives frequently or, like the Sultan, purchased large numbers of female slaves.&quot;<br />Food: &quot;Vegetables were the glory of Ottoman cuisine, prepared with a subtlety rarely devoted to them in other countries. Some dishes, especially those based on the 'king of vegetables', the aubergine, required days of preparation. Two sets of vegetables were served at meals: cold vegetables cooked in oil and hot vegetables cooked in butter.&quot;<br />Alcohol: &quot;The prohibition of alcohol was the Muslim tradition least observed in Constantinople. Jews imported wine from Germany and Spain, but the most popular was the sweet wine of the Aegean islands, such as Samos or Crete, celebrated since classical times.&quot;<br />The cosmopolitan nature of the city: &quot;Constantinople had become a way of life-the only city to be both resort and capital, Bath and London, Spa and Paris. The shared pleasures of food, wine, music, the tavern, the coffee-house and the Bosphorus, united Muslims and non-Muslims.&quot;<br />If this book has a weakness it is that, perhaps, at times it tries to cover too many topics. I think it works best as a cultural and social history. However, in the last 150-200 pages Mr. Mansel switches gears and the book delves mostly into the murky world of politics- both national and international. The reader who is looking for a social history might be bored by the last third of the book. The political scientist might not enjoy the first 300 pages or so. But, Mr. Mansel picked a very difficult story to tell and he is to be congratulated for doing a very fine job overall.	2001-11-08
US	51300959	R3IAMMOFBQTACT	0670890936	193658262	Dragon Hunter: Roy Chapman Andrews and the Central Asiatic Expeditions	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	HE WASN'T BORN IN INDIANA, BUT OTHERWISE....	This is a great rollercoaster ride of a book. As the saying goes, a novelist couldn't dream up the real adventures that Roy Chapman Andrews lived through. Right from the get-go, Andrews had incredible energy and before he was 30 he had accomplished more than most people do in a lifetime!<br />As a teenager, Andrews, using a book on taxidermy as a guide, taught himself to mount animals and birds. As the author explains, &quot;He soon became so skilled that he acquired a license from the Wisconsin Conservation Department and started a part-time business mounting trophies for hunters, the proceeds from which paid for most of his college tuition.&quot; Andrews always knew what he wanted to do for a living and he went right after it... To quote Andrews, &quot;Actually, I never had a choice of profession. I wanted to be an explorer and naturalist so passionately that anything else as a life work just never entered my mind.&quot;<br />After college, even though he had received a letter from the director of the American Museum of Natural History in New York stating that they had no job openings, Andrews went to New York anyway and showed up at the museum. With his combination of charm and determination he convinced the director to hire him. Andrews started off as an &quot;assistant&quot;, basically doing janitorial services, but quickly worked his way up. Still only 23 years old, he was sent by the museum to salvage the remains of a North American right whale that had washed ashore in February 1907, at Amagansett on Long Island. The museum wanted the whale for its cetacean collection. In 20 below zero farenheit weather, Andrews and another museum employee, along with local fishermen, started to &quot;excavate&quot; the whale from the sand. After a couple of days of backbreaking work a severe winter storm struck the area and reburied the whale. Andrews and his co-worker had to start all over again, and it took them a further 10 days to accomplish their goal.<br />After that,Andrews was off to the races. The museum sent him out to shore-whaling stations in British Columbia and Alaska to gather anatomical data on whales. Andrews started to write papers on various topics. When he got back to New York he began attending Columbia University so that he could pursue a doctorate in zoology. In his anatomy studies he became quite adept at dissections. His instructor, a prominent surgeon, was so impressed with Andrews' skills that the instructor thought Andrews should pursue a career as a surgeon! Andrews also gave a lecture and slideshow  and did so well that he got a standing ovation. He was invited to participate in a lecture program sponsored by the city's Department of Education. At this point, we are only up to 1908-1909 and Andrews was only 24-25 years old.<br />I hope this gives you some idea of how interesting and exciting Andrews' life story is. All the Central Asiatic Expeditions, with howling sandstorms, civil wars and vicious bandits are still to come! <br />This was easily one of the best books I've read in the past year. In what is always a great tribute to a wonderful story, I wish I could wipe my memory clean and start it all over again!	2001-11-07
US	51300959	R1AS0XRKZHINHN	0750917032	862110679	The Black Death (Sutton Illustrated History Paperbacks)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	DEATH DOESN'T TAKE A HOLIDAY	This was an interesting excursion by Mr. Ziegler into the Medieval Era, not usually thought of as his milieu. He acknowledges right up front that he has not done any original research, but has merely brought the material of others together and drawn some conclusions. But, in such a controversial field as this, drawing intelligent conclusions is no mean feat.<br />Mr. Ziegler starts off the book giving the big picture, showing the Tartars attacking a Genoese trading post in Asia. The Tartar forces are stricken down by the plague and, using some creative tactics, start catapulting some diseased corpses into the Genoese compound. The Genoese quickly get the message and escape by sea back to Europe. The rest, as they say, is history.....<br />The author has a few chapters where he gives an overview of what happened in Italy, Germany and France. In Germany, in an eerie precursor of things to come centuries later, the Jews are blamed for the calamity and are accused of spreading the plague by poisoning wells. Attacks on Jews, along with the epidemic, spread from town to town.<br />The great majority of the book deals with what happened in England. I don't know if this was Mr. Ziegler's preference or if he felt that the best documentation pertained mostly to the British Isles. He discusses how many people died in various areas of the country; what happened to wage levels and to prices; how the established Church and the various mendicant orders were affected; etc. The author presents all sides of the issues and draws, at least to me, reasonable conclusions.<br />With the exception of a couple of chapters midway through the book, where the repetitive statistics put me into a stupor, the book is lively and well-written. One especially good chapter deals with what it would have been like to live in a village before and after it was ravaged by the plague. This chapter helps to put the statistics into human terms, as was Mr. Ziegler's intent. <br />I would have liked some morematerial on the other countries, and this is what prevents me from giving the book 5 stars. But, still, Mr. Ziegler has done a very good job. This is a fine book.	2001-11-06
US	51300959	R1GD33VJI3PXOL	1883642833	831133985	Journey to the Land of the Flies and Other Travels	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	TOO MUCH BUZZING AROUND....	This is the second book I've read by Mr. Buzzi in the past week and it is an odd experience indeed! He writes very well, but.........everything is so disconnected, almost stream-of-consciousness. When you've finished, you don't feel like you've read &quot;a book&quot;. It's more like jazz....like you've been &quot;reading&quot; jazz. It's improvisational. If you don't mind all the jumping around from thought-to-thought and topic-to-topic, it's ok, but I happen to find it very annoying. It's almost as though Mr. Buzzi just started writing some random thoughts after he had downed a couple of double espressos!<br />If you want some kind of traditional structure and coherent narrative I don't think you'll enjoy this book. However, if you want something that is written well,(in terms of sheer virtuosity) with lots of literary references that you can identify with, this just might be right up your alley...<br />Here is an example, from a section of the book dealing with St. Petersburg: &quot;The Stroganov mansion is at the corner of the Prospekt and the Moika canal, where Prince Yusupov threw Rasputin, who had survived poison and pistol shots. Throwing people into the Moika was a custom. Dolokhov, Pierre, and their companions (War And Peace) seized the commissar of police, who was hurrying to arrest them, bound him shoulder to shoulder with a bear, and threw the pair into the Moika. Thieves were thrown into the Fontanka.&quot;<br />Notice how Mr. Buzzi mixes together real people from history with fictional characters? Oh, heck.......that bothered me too! I have a hard time trusting an author that does that. It makes me wonder if any of the autobiographical material is actually &quot;real&quot;!	2001-11-05
US	51300959	R2O2XGDB3W93IO	1883642701	560620131	A Weakness for Almost Everything: Notes on Life, Gastronomy, and Travel	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	CHAOS THEORY.....	I'm sorry to say that I was very disappointed by this book. When they say &quot;notes&quot; in the subtitle, they are not kidding! As the previous reviewer mentioned, there are moments of glittering prose. The section on food hangs together pretty well and is the strongest part of the book. Unfortunately, that portion is sandwiched (yes, both puns are intended) between two other sections that cry out for the services of a good editor. This isn't really a book, it's a conglomeration of unrelated &quot;stuff&quot;. It's almost as though Mr. Buzzi went through a drawer and just pulled out things he had jotted down over the years and handed the material to his publisher and said, &quot;Here, you want to please make a book out of all this!?&quot;. The final section, &quot;Notes On Travel&quot;, is the worst offender! It takes up about 20 pages of the book (since the entire book is only 95 pages, we are talking about a pretty good-sized hunk) and reads like a bunch of notes that were written on some paper napkins when the author stopped at various roadside restaurants between New York City and Charleston, South Carolina. Actually, to be precise, the author devotes 6 pages to a trip to 8 countries in Central and South America and 11 pages to an 11 day trip back and forth between NYC and South Carolina. If you think you are getting the &quot;bum's rush&quot; on one of those package tours, you'll feel fortunate after checking out this section.......<br />So, why even give this &quot;book&quot; 3 stars? As I mentioned at the start of this review, some of the prose is wonderful, especially in the food section. Check out this gem: &quot;I believe that Talleyrand was able to invent dishes even without the help of his cook. The 'garniture Talleyrand', a sublime sauce for macaroni- butter, cheese (Gruyere and Parmesan), little cubes of foie gras, and truffles-is a recipe that for its golden simplicity and, at the same time, the princely richness of its ingredients can only have come directly from his brain. In France, truffles are found in Perigord, Talleyrand's real name was Talleyrand-Perigord, and in winter, to protect himself from the cold, he often wore a knit cap of black wool, with two long earflaps that hung down on either side of his face like the ears of a truffle hound.&quot;<br />Great stuff! Unfortunately, after reading this book you leave the table hungry.....	2001-11-02
US	51300959	R2B237TXD5TYO4	0151008280	393042282	Becoming Mona Lisa: The Making of a Global Icon	Books	5	15	15	N	N	NUMBER 779, STUDIED FROM ALL ANGLES!	Mr. Sassoon sets out to discover why the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot; is the most famous painting in the world. By the end of this book I don't think we have the answer, but that's not Mr. Sassoon's fault. I really don't think that question can be answered satisfactorily, but no matter-Mr. Sassoon gives it his all and provides us with an entertaining trip through the history of &quot;La Joconde&quot;, as &quot;she&quot; is known in France.<br />We learn many interesting facts along the way: The painting was acknowledged as a masterpiece even during Leonardo's lifetime. One reason was Leonardo's use of the &quot;contrapposto&quot; position, which shows the model's torso in a three-quarter view, while the face looks in a different direction. This is meant to bring movement to what, in a full straight-on view, would otherwise be static. Surprisingly, there was nothing special about &quot;the smile.&quot; Smiles were common in Renaissance portraiture. What would have been unusual would have been someone looking sad in a portrait of the time. Interestingly, Leonardo tried that in his portrait &quot;Ginevra de'Benci&quot;. That model was also &quot;prettier&quot; than the model for the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot;, at least by current standards. But that painting is nowhere near as famous as the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot;.<br />Mr. Sassoon takes us through all the hoops in trying to explain why the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot; is most famous. Besides the fact that Leonardo painted it, the author mentions the fact that the painting is in the Louvre; that it was stolen in a famous theft just a few years before WWI; that the advertising industry has latched onto the painting ad nauseum, etc. We reach the end of the book not really believing that any of this is sufficient to explain the superstar status of this painting. Mr. Sassoon himself points out that there are many other paintings by equally famous artists; many such paintings in the Louvre; many famous paintings that have been involved in famous thefts, etc. So, why the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot;.....<br />So, just read this book for the interesting history of the painting and for the author's trenchant observations on the &quot;art world&quot;. It helps that Mr. Sassoon has a great sense of humor about the whole thing, also. What other painting could inspire a man to sell his business so that he could take a job as a Louvre guard? This is what a man named Leon Mekusa did in 1981. He explained that he considered &quot;being able to greet the 'Mona Lisa' before anyone else in the morning as such a privilege that he had asked not to be paid.&quot;!! People even write letters to the painting, care of the Louvre....<br />Oh, by the way, in case you're wondering about the title of this review; The &quot;Mona Lisa&quot; bears the Louvre inventory number of 779. That's one mystery cleared up anyway...	2001-10-31
US	51300959	R3G743EHK5NXO6	0345436598	269894493	Henry VIII: The King and His Court	Books	5	70	74	N	N	HENRY VIII- UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL!	If you are in the market for a personal, rather than a political, history of Henry VIII, this is the book for you. Even better, and as promised in the title, the book is not just about Henry. You get plenty of information on all six wives, including such tidbits as Katherine Parr's shoe fetish (she had 47 pairs of shoes made in one year- Imelda Marcos, move over!); the presence of aristocratic &quot;cloth holders&quot; in Anne Boleyn's retinue (these ladies would hold cloths in front of Anne's face at strategic moments, such as when Anne needed to spit!); and Anne of Cleves's disagreeable body odor (Henry was eager to meet Anne after he saw the wonderful portrait Hans Holbein had done of her. Unfortunately, when Henry saw Anne in person he was greatly disappointed. And, being a very clean and fastidious fellow, he was even more &quot;turned off&quot; when he got &quot;downwind&quot; of Anne.)<br />     The book seems a bit choppy in the early stages. The chapters are very brief and you seem to be tossed about from one topic to another- the various castles;how they were decorated; the strategic and logistical difficulties of going &quot;on progress&quot;; the quantities and types of food served to the King and his minions; etc. But, even though there doesn't seem to be much of a narrative in the early going, the material is fascinating in and of itself. And, after 200 pages or so, the book starts to come together and becomes more of a straighforward biography.<br />     If you are looking for more of a political/military biography this is most likely not going to be your cup of tea. But if you want to get to know Henry as a human being, and not just Henry but his wives and many members of the nobility, and if you want to find out a lot of interesting information about social life and the culture of the times- you will find this book to be very rewarding.<br />     To give you some idea of the style of the writing, and of the personal information obtained by reading this book, here is an excerpt that deals with Henry's &quot;shopping around&quot; for wife number four, after the death of Jane Seymour:<br />     &quot;It was now more imperative than ever that the King remarry, and soon. Various brides were under consideration: it was thought that some of the highborn ladies of France might prove suitable, but Henry, who was proving particularly choosy, was taking no chances, and demanded that seven or eight of them be brought to Calais for his inspection. On the instructions of an outraged King Francis, the French ambassador, Gaspard de Coligny, Sieur de Castillon, replied, 'It is not the custom in France to send damsels of noble and princely families to be passed in review as if they were hackneys for sale.'&quot;<br />     Weir, at times, fawns a bit too much over Henry. To hear the author's version of things, Henry was the best at everything: the best archer, the best jouster, the best poet, a great scholar, etc. You must take some of this with a grain of salt. But this is small beer, and is outweighed by the sheer joy of reading all of the interesting material!	2001-10-29
US	51300959	R2KXDQ29S9HLS9	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Potpourri	Potpourri-[f., fr, pot+pourri, past part. of pourrir to rot, fr. L. putrere.] A medley or mixture; specif.: 1. A mixture, as of spiced flower petals in a jar, used to scent a room. 2. A medley; sometimes, an anthology.<br />If your mind is already wandering and your eyes are going glassy, this book is not for you. However, if you found my first paragraph to be interesting you are going to like this book.<br />The linguistic aspects are fascinating enough, but Mr. Winchester has a whole lot more going for him. The book opens up with a chapter worthy of a good murder mystery. There are some fascinating sections which delve into psychology and criminal psychiatry. You even get a little history, when the author describes Dr. Minor's participation in the American Civil War.<br />Mr. Winchester writes beautifully and the book is chock-full of interesting stuff. Amazingly so for a book that is only about 200 pages long. As far as I am concerned, &quot;The Professor And The Madman&quot; was worth the purchase price just to see how Dr. Samuel Johnson defined the word &quot;elephant&quot; in his great dictionary.<br />A quick read, educational and entertaining. Highly recommended!	2001-10-24
US	51300959	R33JIF88AUSF8I	0810929910	106311801	Matisse: Father and Son	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Father and Son and Much More Besides	I enjoyed this book immensely. It was a lot different from other books about artists that I have read, in that it was written from a very different perspective. You won't find a lot of analysis here about how particular paintings were done. It isn't that kind of &quot;art&quot; book. It also isn't really a straight biography. Instead, you learn a lot about what it is like to be an art dealer, at least a lot about what it was like to be Pierre Matisse! I found the nuts and bolts of the business and the personalities involved to be intriguing. The best part of the book is the letters. Mr. Russell had the good fortune to have access to the extensive correspondence that Pierre had not only with his father but with other artists as well. We are talking about big leaguers such as Joan Miro, Alberto Giaccometi, Marc Chagall, etc. You learn a lot about their work habits and their personality quirks. Of course, the majority of the letters are between Henri and Pierre Matisse. From previous reading I had always had the impression that Henri Matisse was only interested in his art and paid little or no attention to his family. This book changed my mind. He clearly loved his children and grandchildren and took a lifelong interest in what they did and if they were happy. Henri Matisse emerges from this book as not just a great artist but as a very intelligent and warm person. He also had a very good sense of humor! <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who would something a little different from the run-of-the-mill art book or biography. As a bonus, there are some very nice color reproductions of not just Matisse's work but of many of the other artists that Pierre Matisse represented throughout his long life.	2001-06-11
US	51300959	R3D4JUI8UX7AK9	0375405909	191034047	French Lessons: Adventures with Knife, Fork, and Corkscrew	Books	5	39	41	N	Y	e   (excellent)  mayle!	This is another wonderful book by Mr. Mayle. It is interesting, informative and very funny. I think some critics give Mr. Mayle the short end of the stick, as it is sometimes felt that his books are just &quot;fluff&quot;. What's wrong with being entertaining, though? And if anyone bothers to take a careful look, Mr. Mayle is a very, very good writer. His sentences are polished gems, and I would put him right up there with the best novelists in terms of sheer writing ability.<br />If you like France and you like food, you will like this book. Mr. Mayle travels around going to various festivals that celebrate the eating of snails, or frogs legs, or cheese, etc. There are a couple of absolutely hilarious chapers, one dealing with the &quot;beautiful people&quot; being undressed for lunch in a seaside restaurant in St. Tropez, and the other dealing with going to a health spa, French style. (You have the choice between eating off of the low calorie menu or the gourmet menu. Caloric content is not given on the gourmet menu. After all, this is France!) <br />Scoop this book up as quickly as you can and enjoy every bite. Bon Appetit!	2001-05-21
US	51300959	R1A6LKL35RNGX4	0679745823	746633081	Johannes Brahms: A Biography	Books	5	44	50	N	N	The Wisdom Of Solomon	If you have ever read Maynard Solomon's biographies of Mozart and Beethoven, and enjoyed them, you will definitely like Swafford's biography of Brahm's. The styles have a lot in common. Both authors write mostly with the lay reader in mind, so even someone like me who doesn't have any background in music can still enjoy the books. Both authors are interested in psychological reasons for behavior and, in my opinion, make convincing arguments concerning certain personality traits of these great musicians. However, both authors are also aware that some of the people that read these books are knowledgeable about music, so there are brief sections that get into technical analysis of the music. Solomon did this by including short chapters scattered throughout his book, devoted solely to musical analysis. Swafford chose to incorporate his musical analysis within the general flow of the book, a few paragraphs at a time. As a lay reader, I liked Swafford's approach better. Since I pretty much didn't understand the technical aspects, it was less boring to have this stuff just a little bit at a time! Swafford's book has two great strengths, besides the fact that he writes beautifully. He goes into detail concerning Brahms relationship with Clara Schumann, a friendship which lasted for approximately 40 years. The second strength is that piece by piece he builds up a picture of Brahms the man so that by the end of the book you will feel that you knew Brahms. The picture is well-rounded, too. Brahms could be rude and arrogant but he also could be sensitive and humble and generous. He also had a tremendous sense of humor. He was very witty, both in his conversation and in his correspondence. He was also a great practical joker. Swafford relates a story about the time Brahms went to lunch with a friend, who happened to be a Beethoven scholar. Brahms, before the lunch, had taken a popular song of the day and written it out in musical notation, but he did this imitating Beethoven's handwriting. He made arrangements for the fellow that waited on them in the restaurant to wrap up the scholar's takeout lunch in the &quot;Beethoven&quot; score. Brahms was quite amused when he saw the expression on his friend's face as he unwrapped his lunch and without saying a word, carefully folded up the score and just put it in his pocket. He probably thought he had made a great discovery until he got the score home and actually got to read the music! This was easily one of the best books I read last year and I have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who loves good biography, even if you don't know anything about music!	2001-01-03
US	51300959	R1XIQ80HVN5ISV	0801494214	661775365	Franz Liszt: The Virtuoso Years, 1811-1847, Vol. 1 (Franz Liszt)	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	On The Road Again.....	He was thin and had long straight hair. When he sat down at the piano he would oftimes play with such power that he snapped strings and would have to switch to playing on another piano. When he came onstage the women would swoon. Are we talking about a modern rocker, perhaps? Nope. We are talking about the incomparable Franz Liszt. I believe that Alan Walker took somewhere around 20-25 years to write all 3 volumes of Liszt's biography. It was definitely worth it! In this first volume we follow Liszt the traveling virtuoso. The man with the powerful fingers certainly needed stamina to pursue his career back in those days. Imagine traveling thousands of miles over bad roads in all sorts of weather, in a coach! Liszt achieved amazing fame and was well-aware of the position he had attained through his hard work. In the days when musicians were still generally regarded as the servants of the aristocracy Liszt, in one famous incident stopped playing because the Czar of Russia had the effrontery to speak during the concert! Liszt paused and said, &quot;Even music stops when the Czar speaks!&quot; Despite the picture of Liszt that has come down through the ages as some kind of Hungarian Ham that liked to wear medals and who would leave his green gloves behind on the piano so that after a concert the ladies could fight over them, there was a lot more to him than just being a showman. He was a very spiritual man and believed his ability was a gift from God. He worked very hard and in addition to being a virtuoso he was one of great composers, with an amazing output both in terms of quantity and quality. He was a very generous man who would give benefits to raise money for worthy causes such as flood victim relief or to pay for a statue of Beethoven to be commissioned. Liszt had many, many students and he never charged a penny for his lessons. He thought it was his duty to pass on his knowledge to other pianists with talent. A minor flaw of this biography is that Walker tendsto be a bit too fawning at times. But the knowledge we gain because of the tremendous amount of research the author has done makes up for this many times. This is a great biography.	2000-12-20
US	51300959	R1ZB1X3Z2H981A	0394704150	597233313	The Banquet Years: The Origins of the Avant-Garde in France - 1885 to World War I	Books	4	6	21	N	Y	Take Your Pick	This is a good book to rummage around in and to pick through, depending on your interests. The book has a strange kind of ebb and flow to it, alternating between straightforward biographical information, entertaining and easily comprehensible, and some very difficult philosophical sections on what these four disparate people were trying to achieve in their work. The book is very good but in some ways doesn't quite hold together because of the alternating style. And, quite honestly, in some of the analytical sections I sometimes wasn't sure what Mr. Shattuck was saying! If you want something that is entertaining but also very thoughtful without lapsing into the obscure you might want to try David Sweetman's &quot;Explosive Acts&quot; instead. That book seems to me to be more comprehensive and to give you a better feel for the times. Shattuck's book is more narrow in focus. A big drawback for me is that I have never heard the music of Erik Satie. As far as I know it is unavailable. This makes it a little tough to follow Mr. Shattuck's analysis of the music. So, &quot;The Banquet Years&quot; has got a lot of rich, dense prose but you'll need to beware if you are watching your intellectual weight!	2000-12-19
US	51300959	R36AMNWIVTIMME	0810907755	380620828	Cezanne : A  Biography	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Well-Worth The Hefty Price	I have read many books on Cezanne over the past 10 years and in my opinion this is the best. For a combination of well-written text and excellent reproductions of the paintings this book cannot be beat. The text is jargon free. Mr. Rewald was a wonderful writer and he gives you a warm and sympathetic biography of a great artist and complex and difficult man. Cezanne was very neurotic. He had a fear of women and would not use nude models. His famous bather series was worked up from photographs and plaster casts, etc. He could be very anti-social: he sometimes would cross the street to avoid meeting someone he knew. He was very emotional and struggled to keep his emotions under control. This was reflected in his work. His early work was full of violence and shadows and you feel as though he barely was able to keep himself in check as he coated the canvas in a thick impasto. The later, carefully controlled and beautifully harmonized works are the more familiar to the general public. The cover gives you some indication of the beautiful reproductions which are inside this book. This is a great addition and in my opinion a must have for anyone's art library.	2000-12-10
US	51300959	RL37PLJC7UYV9	0684811790	238395936	Explosive Acts: Toulouse-Lautrec, Oscar Wilde, Felix Feneon, and the Art & Anarchy of the Fin de Siecle	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Blown Away!	I decided to pick up this book after I had read Mr. Sweetman's wonderful biography of Paul Gauguin. I was not disappointed. This is another excellent book. As the title lets you know right away, this is a book that is about much more than Toulouse-Lautrec, although he is the main subject. But even the cover doesn't begin to tell you the whole story. Inside you will find interesting and informative biographical sketches of many other people who moved in the literary and theatrical and artistic circles of turn of the century Paris. People such as: La Goulue, Jane Avril, Alfred Jarry, Andre Gide, Valentin Le Desosse, Yvette Guilbert and many, many others. It is a tribute to Mr. Sweetman's descriptive skills that after reading only a few pages about any one of these people you will want to go out and try to find a full biography! Besides dealing with personalities the author also widens his scope to write about the Dreyfus affair, anti-semitism, prostitution and sexually transmitted diseases, etc. Mr. Sweetman is a very thoughtful writer and he always gives you a balanced portrait of the people he writes about. Nothing is ever black or white. There are always shades of gray. Toulouse-Lautrec did a lot more than sit around the dance halls of Montmartre and get drunk, although many nights he did get drunk. And there was a lot more to his art than the widely reproduced posters he did of the Moulin Rouge and the Moulin De La Galette. Besides the fact that this book is beautifully written there is the bonus that it contains over 100 period photographs. They are fascinating and I have never seen the vast majority before. If you have any interest in art or in late 19th century Paris I have no doubt that you will enjoy this book. It is one of the best books I've read this year!	2000-12-09
US	51300959	R1KVD8WFAX2UQA	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Prime Bryson	Another smooth effort by Mr. Bryson. I bought this book solely for the entertainment value but the author managed to throw in a little history, geology, zoology, botany, etc. which to me was a bonus. As he says at the  start of the book, most people don't know anything at all about Australia.  It is almost never in the news. Geez, all my life I didn't realize I was  mispronouncing Canberra by putting the emphasis on the second syllable  rather than on the first! I had never heard of the prime minister, Harold  Holt, who in 1967 went for a swim which, as Mr. Bryson delicately phrases  it, &quot;required no towel&quot; and was never seen again! I didn't know  that people in Sydney make Melbourne jokes, such as &quot;Do you have any  children?&quot;  &quot;Yes, 2 living and 1 in Melbourne&quot;. If you read  this book you will also discover 12 foot earthworms, kangaroos that live in  trees, and the cassowary- which is as big as a person, looks like an emu  but has a bony growth on its head and a murderous claw on each foot. They  attack by jumping up and striking out with both feet together. The book is  full of interesting stuff like this, just about on every page. As Bryson  says, &quot;Australia, what a great place!&quot;	2000-06-22
US	51300959	RL7ME985VN73W	0201408007	999876295	Nelson: A Personal History	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Half-Nelson	I am a great admirer of Christopher Hibbert but I was very disappointed in this book. When I finished it I had the impression that I still didn't know much about what kind of man Nelson was. He seemed to be almost a cartoon  character or someone in an old swashbuckler type movie, rather than a real  person. One reason for this is that Mr. Hibbert relied too much on  quotations from Nelson's own letters. Nelson apparently always saw himself  as someone destined to be very special and oftimes when he wrote or said  something it seemed as though he did it with one eye (if you'll pardon the  pun) on posterity. He would be melodramatic and predict that this or that  battle would make his name or result in his death, etc. He would be very  upset when he wasn't promoted quickly enough or didn't get prize money  after a battle but when he made a comment for public consumption he would  say his only wish was to serve king and country. He loved to strut around  with medals and ribbons pinned to his chest and he was seemingly always  available to have his portrait painted by every artist in England. Mr.  Hibbert does not provide any analysis or even express his opinion. It is  almost as though he thought this was a story that could tell itself.  Well,..... it couldn't! Mr. Hibbert called this book &quot;Nelson: A  Personal History&quot;, but it is too much about Nelson's personal life and  at the same time not personal enough. There are too many quotations from  letters to Emma Hamilton expressing his love for her, but not enough  information about why Nelson abandoned his wife. There is too much gossip  from people who either liked Mrs. Hamilton or couldn't stand her and one is  left confused rather than feeling that a balanced picture has been  presented, again, because Mr. Hibbert makes no attempt to separate the  wheat from the chafe. Nelson's career is given short shrift and it seems as  though in a flash he has gone from being a boy at sea to admiral, with no  explanation of how he got from one place to the other. We are shown enough  to know that Nelson was indeed a very brave (if reckless and sometimes  foolhardy) man but it is never explained to us what made Nelson a great  strategist or set him above any other captain or admiral of the fleet. We  are given only one glimpse of the complexity of the man, and this towards  the end of the book. Nelson met the future Duke of Wellington in a room of  the Colonial Office, where they were both waiting to see Lord Castlereagh.  Nelson had no idea that he was talking with somebody of any reputation or  importance, although Wellington recognized Nelson. According to Wellington  &quot;he (Nelson) entered at once into conversation with me, if I can call  it conversation, for it was almost all on his side and all about himself  and, in reality, a style so vain and so silly as to surprise and almost  disgust me.&quot; Nelson then left the room for a moment, apparently to  find out from someone who exactly he had been speaking with. After finding  out that Wellington was &quot;somebody&quot; he came back into the room and  his manner was totally different. Wellington continued &quot;his charlatan  style had quite vanished...and certainly for the last half or  three-quarters of an hour, I don't know that I ever had a conversation that  interested me more...I saw enough to be satisfied that he was really a very  superior man; but certainly a more sudden or complete metamorphosis I never  saw.&quot; If only during the course of this 400 page book these depths  could have been explored, we might then have been presented with the  &quot;real&quot; Nelson!	2000-06-19
US	51300959	R6YM01ZA1HHQF	0060195320	398069412	Captain Bligh's Portable Nightmare: From the Bounty to Safety--4,162 Miles Across the Pacific in a Rowing Boat	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Potable	If you are going to write a defense of William Bligh, you are going to have to deal with what happened on &quot;The Bounty&quot;. This book doesn't address that and this is a major problem with the book. This is not  a story about a ship sunk by a storm or by a whale. It is a story about a  Royal Navy captain whose crew committed mutiny and put him adrift in the  Pacific. It seems to me if you are going to tell Bligh's story you just  can't start at the point where he is lowered into the boat by the  mutineers. Especially not when you are going to spend a lot of the book  defending the man's character. I can only think that Mr. Toohey felt that  people had such a cartoonish image of Bligh as some sort of sadistic beast  that he needed to concentrate on Bligh's positive leadership qualities and  navigational skills in bringing those loyal to him over 4,000 miles across  the ocean to safety. But even here we have a problem, as some of the men  who went with Bligh did not respect him and were openly rebellious. Their  criticisms are made to seem petty and indeed they were. Bligh's second in  command, John Fryer, clearly did not like Bligh and made false accusations  that Bligh gave himself larger rations and overcharged the Royal Navy for  supplies. But other men besides Fryer did not respect Bligh either. Since  Toohey will go no further than to say that Bligh was not very flexible and  was a stickler for regulations you really can't see what the problem was.  The author asserts that Bligh was not a brute. He was a loving husband and  father. He did not believe in flogging, which is rather remarkable for that  period. So something is missing as the book loses its focus. Rather than  being able to concentrate on the remarkable journey to safety we are always  left wondering at what was behind the whole thing. In the epilogue Mr.  Toohey explains that Bligh was later the victim of another mutiny when he  was in command of the aptly named &quot;Defiance&quot; and on the&quot;Director&quot; his men voted to have him replaced! What was the  problem with this man? The reason I am still giving this book 3 stars is  that is well-written in the sense that it has a nice style and flows along  smoothly. It is almost novelistic. The descriptions of Bligh's encounters  with Pacific Islanders are interesting and exciting. But it is not enough  to overcome the fundamental flaws of the book.	2000-06-14
US	51300959	R31X0NJL5RKIG0	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Extreme Whaling	To use an old-fashioned phrase, this is &quot;a ripping yarn&quot;! I plowed through this book in just 3 days and if it hadn't been for work and chores that couldn't wait I would have finished in 2. Mr. Philbrick has a  great gift for telling a story. Not only that, the layout of the book was  wonderfully conceived. The author gives you some background on Nantucket  and explains that although a large part of the population were peaceloving  Quakers, that didn't stop them from hunting whales with a vengeance. Mr.  Philbrick mentions that everyone on the island, women and small children  included, would use seafaring and whaling expressions in their everyday  speech, and the youngsters would even go around trying to  &quot;harpoon&quot; things as part of their play. Mr. Philbrick gives you  great descriptions of the men and the ships and the sea. He includes  fascinating bits of information concerning human nutritional needs (at one  point in the story the men were down to trying to survive on about 350  calories per day) and also the psychological as well as the physical  effects of starvation. Mr. Philbrick explains that right after the  &quot;Essex&quot; was sunk the captain of the ship, George Pollard, had to  make a decision about which direction the survivors should go. They could  have gone west towards the islands near Tahiti. The tradewinds from the  east would blow them in that direction anyway, and the islands were not  that far. They could have reached them in about a week. But the men had  heard rumors of cannibals living on some of these islands, so they decided  to go east, towards the coast of South America. This was a much more  difficult journey. It meant going south until they were away from the  tradewinds blowing from the east and only then being able to turn towards  the coast of Chile. Because of the roundabout route this trip would take 3  months and make them cover over 4,000 miles! Another interesting aspect of  the tale that Mr. Philbrick covers is that 6 of the 20 sailors were blacks,  and that 5 of these 6 men were the first to die. This might seem very  suspicious at first but Mr. Philbrick explains that due to a generally  poorer diet before the &quot;Essex&quot; even left Nantucket these men were  at an immediate disadvantage. The author also states that studies have  shown that black people generally have less fat stored in their bodies than  white people, and this factor would have also made a difference as once  your body runs out of fat to burn it will start to use up muscle. Captain  Pollard, who was short and stocky and who was older than most of the crew,  and who therefore had more fat stored and also a slower metabolism, would  seem a good candidate for survival- and, indeed, he did live to tell his  tale of the disaster! In the epilogue Mr. Philbrick mentions that a few  months after getting back to Nantucket Captain Pollard was given command of  another whaling ship. On his first trip out he was in the Pacific and hit a  coral reef and this ship sunk as well! Fortunately for Pollard and his  crew, they had been sailing close by another whaler and were picked up the  next day. The captain rightly surmised that he would be perceived as being  &quot;jinxed&quot; and would not be given another command...	2000-06-12
US	51300959	R2AKAMMAJOIXYH	0871138042	255087586	Barrow's Boys	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Ice Capades!	I hope that Fergus Fleming has a long, healthy, happy life and writes a lot more books! I really enjoyed &quot;Barrow's Boys&quot;. A cynic might say that this is a story that sells itself. But that would be unfair and  untrue. After all, we are talking about a book that is mostly about trip  after trip to arctic waters, in search of that other Holy Grail, the  Northwest Passage. In the hands of a less skilled author this could become  tedious. How many ways are there to describe wind, cold, stormy seas and  icebergs? But Mr. Fleming really delves into the personalities of the  explorers and when each trip is over he goes back to England and takes you  inside the walls of the Admiralty and the Royal Geographical Society to  show you the jealousy and backbiting and political shenanigans that went on  between voyages. He ladles up a generous amount of quotations from Barrow  and &quot;his boys&quot;, who were thoughtful enough to provide us with  extensive written records in the form of government memoranda and journal  entries. Mr. Ferguson describes life aboard ship, wintering in the long,  dark arctic night. How did the men pass the time? Well, they ate and  exercised and many of them took reading lessons so that they could become  literate. They also rigged up a stage aboard ship and put on shows, some of  the men getting themselves &quot;rigged up&quot; as women by performing in  drag! Another thing that prevents this book from ever becoming boring is  that, especially in the middle section, Mr. Fleming alternates between  telling us about the arctic explorations and the men who were sent to  Africa to find the source of the Niger and to find Timbuctoo. The sections  on Africa provide a nice contrast, sort of like a tangy sorbet in between  the appetizer and the entree! One of the interesting explorers that went to  Africa was Gordon Laing, who was an absolute fanatic about going through  the Sahara to find Timbuctoo, despite warnings that he was going smack dabthrough bandit country. Before he set off on his journey he fell in love  with a young English lady and wanted to marry her. Her father was none too  happy about his daughter marrying someone who was quite possibly deranged.  The father couldn't stop the marriage, but he got the newlyweds to agree  not to consummate the marriage until Laing got back from his great  adventure. Needless to say, Mr. and Mrs. Laing never got to enjoy conjugal  bliss. After barely surviving one bandit attack, Laing was not so lucky the  second time around. He was strangled and then decapitated. Mr. Ferguson  closes the book with a twenty page section telling us about what happened  to the explorers in their later years (those lucky enough to make it back,  that is!). You get interesting and amusing insights into their lives. Let  me finish this review by quoting a paragraph concerning Richard McCormick,  who sailed with an 1852-3 arctic expedition: &quot;McCormick retired to  Hecla House in Wimbledon, where he spent his last years with a menagerie of  stuffed animals that he had collected on his journeys, an irritable  Greenland husky called Erebus, and a tame Aylesbury duck that slept on a  cushion by the fire alongside a pet sparrow. Dog, duck and sparrow followed  McCormick wherever he went until one day he walked from his sitting-room to  the dining-room and closed the door too hastily behind him. The sparrow  flew into it and broke its neck.&quot; Poor sparrow, but great writing!	2000-06-09
US	51300959	R2SX5H34NANJK6	0874519098	251347185	Reflections in Bulloughs Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England (Revisiting New England)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	On Reflection: Dazzling!	This is one of the best books I have ever read- period! At the core of the book is Ms. Muir's message that we are part of nature, not separate from or above nature, and we have a great responsibility to maintain the integrity  of the environment. Granted, this message is not new. Where this book is  very different is how Ms. Muir leads up to this message. She shows how the  New England landscape changed from one where farming dominated to one that  was a mixture of many different types of mills and factories. You learn the  consequences of everything that was done along the way: the consequences to  fish and birds of damming rivers; the consequences to forests and to the  air we breath of heavy logging; the consequences of catching too many of  one type of fish, etc. What is great about this book is that Ms. Muir does  not deal in hazy generalities. She takes you step by step and shows you  specifically how certain actions cause certain changes in the environment,  often unforseen. There is nothing simplistic in her observations and she  knows there are no easy answers. She lays out the data for you and you can  come to your own conclusions. But what really takes this book to another  level is the fascinating biographical information that Ms. Muir provides  concerning the many, many New Englanders that invented the machines of the  Industrial Revolution and kept the economy vibrant as the importance of  agriculture diminished. The way this book is put together is very unusual,  due to the combination of all of the above factors and in the space of 248  pages you will learn a great deal of information. The research Ms. Muir  must have done in writing this book is staggering and her knowledge across  many different areas is amazing. Don't miss reading this book.	2000-06-05
US	51300959	R3MTTQPB0BNTTT	1568581645	558916744	1700: Scenes from London Life	Books	5	33	33	N	N	More Than 1700 Scenes!	This is a wonderful book and I had a great time reading it. It is full of many interesting tidbits on many topics, such as: marriage, childbirth, death, fashion, food and drink, amusements, coffeehouses and taverns, etc.  The book is beautifully written and holds your attention from start to  finish. Here is the first paragraph from the opening chapter, concerning  marriage: &quot;Thirty-four years after the Great Fire, the worshippers at  St. Paul's still gaze up at open sky. Within a decade, Wren's completed  dome will cast a shadow over the grim Fleet Prison, the ominous building  where debtors count out their days. At the foot of Ludgate Hill lies the  Fleet Ditch, wide enough for a coal barge to sail north to Holborn, if it  can tackle the stinking sewage, discarded guts and offal, drowned puppies  and dead cats sliding down its muddy channel towards the Thames. Passing  the brawling concert of fishwives and stall-holders gathered around the  Fleet Bridge, we come to a warren of alleyways known as the Rules of the  Fleet. Here, forty marriage-houses do a busy trade.&quot; Every chapter is  chock-full of interesting things and I guarantee that no matter how many  books you may have read on English history you will still learn many things  and be thoroughly entertained. In the chapter on disease, for example, you  learn a little about sanitary conditions and the state of medical  knowledge. Here are two quotes:&quot;Contaminated food and drinking water  caused frequent outbursts of bacterial stomach infections. Flies traveled  from faeces to food. It did not occur to those preparing or handling food  to wash their hands after defecating.&quot; &quot;The eminent physician Sir  Thomas Sydenham prescribed his own highly popular remedy (for dysentery):  two ounces of strained opium, one ounce of saffron, one drachm each of  cinnamon and cloves in a pint of canary wine.&quot; In the chapter on  amusements you find out that the common people entertained themselves byattending public executions and by going to Bethlehem Hospital (popularly  known as Bedlam) to watch the antics of the insane. When coffeehouses  became all the rage after coffee was introduced by a London merchant who  had been trading in the Ottoman Empire, women became jealous of all the  time their husbands spent in these establishments, and also suspected the  vile black brew made their men impotent. &quot;Never did men wear greater  breeches,&quot; they complained, &quot;or carry less in them of any mettle  whatsoever.&quot; I had a blast reading this book and I can't recommend it  highly enough!	2000-06-05
US	51300959	R3KBV3SQD078MK	0679452192	363419478	Portraits: Talking with Artists at the Met, the Modern, the Louvre, and Elsewhere	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Artists On Art	What could be better than going through art museums with artists and listening to their comments about the art on display and the artists who created that art? Michael Kimmelman, a distinguished art critic, had the  great good fortune to do just that, and he wisely put himself in the  background and let some very articulate people express themselves  concerning things that they have thought about their whole lives. These are  people who are passionate about art and who know all about making art. Some  of the comments are educational and some are funny and, depending on the  artists you like or dislike, some you might find irritating. For example,  here is Chuck Close at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC: &quot;About  some of the other artists he passes along the way he is dismissive. Renoir  is &quot;Italian restaurant painting and unless you're having pizza you  wouldn't want to look at it.&quot; He doesn't care much for Titian or  Tintoretto either.&quot; But before you dismiss this as a comment by  somebody saying something to be outrageous, you should know that at the age  of 48 Mr. Close had a spinal artery collapse, which left him what is called  an incomplete quadriplegic. He had to relearn to paint, with brushes  strapped to his hands. (An irony, not mentioned by Mr. Kimmelman, is that  in his later years, due to very bad arthritis, Renoir also had to have  brushes strapped to his hands!) Listen to Mr. Close again, talking about a  trip to The Met after his disability had struck him down: &quot;So I went  to look at the Petrus Christuses and Holbeins and realized that everything  I loved in the history of painting, and portrait painting in particular, is  small and tight and the product of fine motor control, which I had lost. I  was depressed for days, but then I ended up with a cathartic experience  because I found myself in my studio feeling so happy just to be working  again that I was literally whistling while I painted and at the same time  tears were streaming down my cheeks.&quot; My heart sank when I read that  paragraph! Another artist expresses his opinion that the greatest artist of  the 20th century was not Picasso and not Matisse, but rather Pierre  Bonnard. A very large statement to make! What I found especially  interesting was that 3 or 4 of the artists, with different styles, all  agreed on the greatness of Ingres and all were angered by the commonly held  opinion that although he was a master of line, Ingres was not a very good  colorist. These artists felt that Ingres was not only a good colorist but  that he was a great colorist! Even better, they tell you why they feel he  was a great colorist. This is a wonderful book and I wish I could have been  a mouse in the corner when Mr. Kimmelman was walking and talking with these  artists!	2000-06-05
US	51300959	RI59EZYIL05ZE	0679725768	420329808	The Mezzanine	Books	5	38	42	N	Y	In Search Of Lost Marbles!	The narrator of this novel is nuts.... but don't let that stop you from reading this wonderful book! Just be aware it might take you a little while to get comfortable with the quirky way the protatgonist has of thinking  about things. After the first ten pages I was laughing out loud but after  thirty pages I almost put it down because I didn't know if I could keep  handling 2 page footnotes on, say, the physics of what makes shoelaces  break! But I stayed with the book and I was glad I did. It is a pleasure to  keep up with the narrator as his mind meanders through the minutiae of  everyday life. He has a childlike curiosity about the world. Everything  fascinates him! He is a lucky man because he enjoys understanding the  little things in life and life presents a neverending supply of little  things to think about. This is a guy who will never be bored! I also get  the feeling that this is the way the mind of a really good scientist works,  analytical but childlike as well. Want to know if you will like this book?  Here is one sentence, expressing the narrator's admiration for the way the  old-style packages of Jiffy Pop popcorn were engineered: &quot;Jiffy Pop  was the finest example of the whole aluminous genre: a package inspired by  the fry pan whose handle is also the hook it hangs from in the store, with  a maelstrom of swirled foil on the top that, subjected to the subversion of  the exploding kernels, first by the direct collisions of discrete corns and  then in a general indirect uplift of the total volume of potentiated  cellulose, gradually unfurls its dome, turning slowly as it despirals  itself, providing in its gradual expansion a graspable, slow-motion version  of what each erumpent particle of corn is undergoing invisibly and  instantaneously beneath it.&quot; Whoooh! I can see where this book would  be the type of thing you either love or hate, so if the above sentence made  you squirm, stay away. But if a smile emerged while you read it I think you  will enjoy &quot;The Mezzanine&quot; as much as I did.	2000-05-21
US	51300959	R1V6EUUWZ4P7IO	039304923X	245419187	Karl Marx: A Life	Books	3	20	28	N	N	Good/Bad	Ah, &quot;dialectical materialism&quot;,&quot;urban proletariat&quot;,&quot;opium of the masses&quot;. The days of my youth and memories of my college course in radical political thought with Professor  Fleisher at Brooklyn College came back to me as I read the above  phrases...But, I digress! I feel that two important things a biography must  accomplish to be considered successful are that the subject should come  alive for you and you should come away from the book feeling you know what  made the person tick. This book accomplishes the first goal but not the  second. As mentioned by other reviewers, the book has many colorful  anecdotes and Mr. Wheen is a good writer, so Marx does come to life for  you. You can just picture the burly Marx with his beard and lion's mane of  hair bullying his associates and always getting things his own way. You can  also picture him as a loving husband and father, thoroughly bourgeois in  his home life. But after I read this book I didn't get the feeling I really  knew what made Marx tick. How could he be so selfish and insensitive and  brutish one moment and loving and caring the next? Why would a man who  enjoyed middle-class life and to be in the bosom of his family subject  himself and them to a life of penury? You don't get an answer from this  book. Mr. Wheen is also very selective about his comments concerning Marx's  works. While Wheen does not hesitate to criticize Marx the man he is  extremely reluctant to criticize Marx the political and economic theorist.  He oftimes would come to Marx's defense and show where Marx had been  misunderstood or where Marx had been shown to be right in his predictions  or descriptions concerning capitalism, but equal time is not given to the  areas where Marx has been shown to be wrong. In fact, Wheen tries to  deflect criticism from &quot;Das Kapital&quot; when he says that Marx never  claimed his economic analysis was scientific, that he considered his  writing to be &quot;artistic&quot;.Oh? Well, he did claim that he was  correct and everybody who criticized him was incorrect, so that certainly  gives us the right to &quot;test&quot; his theories. It is almost 120 years  since Marx's death and capitalism still seems to be quite lively! I want to  end this review by returning to what is good about this book and that is in  showing Marx's relationships with those around him. His long-suffering wife  Jenny comes alive from the pages as a smart and funny person and Mr. Wheen  does an especially good job in giving us a portrait of Friedrich Engels.  Engels was not just a collaborator but a true friend. He wrote articles for  Marx and pilfered money from his father's business in Manchester and sent  it to Marx to keep him on his feet and he was always there when Marx needed  him. He was also quite the ladies man and liked a good bottle of wine! In  fact, one of the best things about this book is that it comes close to  being a dual biography of Marx and Engels. So, when I added up all the pros  and cons I found this a book worth reading. It is flawed but you will come  away knowing a lot more about what Marx's day to day life was like.	2000-05-19
US	51300959	R32O21GG0PEWOG	0399146040	349365874	Mr Phillips	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Sophomore Jinx	Let me start off by saying that I thought &quot;The Debt To Pleasure&quot; was a very fine book. Unfortunately, no such luck with Mr. Lanchester's second effort. I think the author wanted to have his cake and to eat it  too. He was attempting to write a serious book but he was also looking at  the market and trying to make sure he was writing something that would  sell. He throws in way too much sex. I imagine that Mr. Lanchester would  reply that he is just holding up a mirror to our society as he uses  &quot;Mr. Phillips&quot; to show our obsession with all things sexual.  There is a fine line between trying to make a point and pandering and I  think the author has crossed way over onto the pandering side of the line.  Even putting aside this criticism, I have other problems with this book.  The targets that Mr. Lanchester takes on are just too easy to mock. It is  like shooting ducks in a barrel. I have already mentioned sexual obsession  as one target. The author also takes on religion; alienation in the crowded  and hurried life of the big city; the corporate world; the banality of  modern music; and the &quot;pearls before swine&quot; critique of putting  anything highbrow in front of &quot;Joe Ordinary&quot;. I suppose that Mr.  Lanchester's &quot;big theme&quot; is the unpredictability and randomness  of life, exemplified by the protagonist's concern with order and statistics  in a world where he has gone from 25 years of job security to being made  &quot;redundant&quot;. To me, this main theme gives this book what value it  does possess, but it is not enough to make the book a success, for I don't  think Mr. Lanchester has made the right choices in his attempt to  &quot;flesh out&quot; (if you'll pardon the expression) his theme. Having  Mr. Phillips being present at a bank which just happens to be entered by  armed robbers at the same time (and a lady television personality that Mr.  Phillips is obsessed with also just happens to be present) does not showthe elements of randomness or chance. It just smacks to me of being a  contrived plot mechanism and does not ring true. And did we really need Mr.  Phillips going to a porn shop, where we are given graphic descriptions of  what he is looking at in the magazines or watching up on the screen when he  decides to take in a porno flick? Sorry, Mr. Lanchester. Here's hoping you  return to form in your next book.	2000-05-12
US	51300959	R23CAJEVEZVARS	0609604392	948877682	Tulipomania: The Story of the World's Most Coveted Flower & the Extraordinary Passions It Aroused	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	I'll Take Mine Sauteed!	This book was a pleasure to read. It is beautifully written, well-researched and it grabs your attention right away and holds it until the very end. I think Mr. Dash realized that even though the book is  relatively short, most people would have been bored if the book had only  stayed with a narrow focus on tulip varieties and the economic dynamics of  the brief period during which the mania flourished. The author made a wise  choice by going off into little interesting peripheral areas, such as the  origins of the tulip in central Asia, the cultivation of the flower by the  Ottoman Turks, and some aspects of social life in 17th century Holland. Did  you know that when the flower was popular in Turkey some of the Ottoman  soldiers went around with tulips embroidered on their underwear? Due to the  Islamic prohibition concerning the artistic depiction of people and real  life objects the embroidery of the flower had to be kept  &quot;undercover&quot;, so they placed it on the underwear! I don't want to  give the impression that the book is a bunch of fluff. Mr. Dash never veers  too far from the tulip mania and some of the best chapters in the book  concern the botanical, economic and social reasons for the stratospheric  heights tulip prices reached. Due to the way tulips reproduce it took a  long time for new varieties (which were the most coveted) to be produced in  quantity. Trading methods that we use today, such as buying on margin and  trading in futures, also helped to fuel the craze, as did the tendency of  the people involved to do their trading in taverns while consuming vast  quantities of beer! Oh, by the way, I do want to explain the title of this  review: In 1562 a shipment of cloth which had been sent from Istanbul  arrived in Antwerp. The Flemish merchant who had ordered the cloth also  noticed that the shipment contained some type of bulbs. They were tulip  bulbs, but the merchant didn't know that. He assumed they were some type of  Turkish onion, so he had most of them roasted and he ate them for supper,  seasoned with some oil and vinegar!	2000-05-10
US	51300959	R3AICU6TIAU5I6	0140271457	273947800	Do the Windows Open?	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Hooked On Hecht	I am always hesitant to recommend fiction to other people because enjoyment of fiction is so subjective and so personal. I feel so strongly about the stories of Julie Hecht, though, that I had to write this review.  When I see an issue of &quot;The New Yorker&quot; that has a new Hecht  story it just makes my whole week. It is hard to define her style but  perhaps calling her the Steven Wright of short story writers would give you  some idea! She makes the most oddball but humorous (in a bittersweet way)  observations using a deadpan delivery. Her narrator, always the same person  in all stories, is alienated and lonely and neurotic but touching and  engaging because of her humor and intelligence. Hecht's stories have no  grand themes and contain no momentous events. She writes of the mundane  daily activities of her protagonist: going to the health food store; riding  on a bus; a visit to the doctor. The activities are not important; it is  Hecht's observations of other people that will resonate within you. If you  enjoy lowkey writing which is concerned with the behavior of everyday  people I think you will enjoy these stories as much as I did. I can't wait  for Ms. Hecht's next collection of stories. Unfortunately, I think it will  be awhile as her stories come out very infrequently!	2000-05-04
US	51300959	R1V0L8L5Q81LVH	3822890448	173713668	Bruegel: The Complete Paintings (Basic Art)	Books	5	10	17	N	Y	The World On Wood	Pieter Bruegel The Elder must have been a very interesting fellow. I would have liked to have known him. This lovely book lets you enter the strange world of Bruegel, overflowing with the reality of the 16th century  Netherlands mixed (in the same painting) with biblical and classical  scenes! To the modern eye and mind these are very disconcerting  combinations! You have the Tower Of Babel being constructed next to a  waterway which contains European sailing ships, while off in the distance  you can see the houses of Antwerp. You have Icarus falling into the sea  while a 16th century farmer walks by with his ox and while another man  fishes nearby, both seemingly oblivious to the fate of the poor man.  Bruegel's paintings, most of which were done on wood panel, are full of  many different people doing many different things. You get a sense of  hustle and bustle and life. Oftimes the people are odd-looking and have  strange physiques. Children are indistinguishable from adults. Visual puns  abound. Men at a wedding dance have outrageously bulging codpieces; bare  buttocks are sometimes visible through windows. Other paintings contain  moral lessons and are full of horrible demons or skeletons rampaging  through the countryside like some awful supernatural army, raping and  murdering. Still other paintings are of idyllic scenes, such as maidens  walking through the countryside at harvest time or children playing games  on the ice during winter. Bruegel was a master of color and the harvest  scenes glow with golden yellow and the winter scenes chill you with whites  and subtle greys and leaden skies. Taschen has done it again with another  fine book with excellent commentary and high quality reproductions. The  paintings of Bruegel are full of humor and horror and beauty and ugliness  and sometimes so much is going on you can't digest it all at one time. The  paintings of Bruegel are full of life.	2000-04-28
US	51300959	R260FEH81IFV93	0520221990	591213485	Berlioz: Volume One: The Making of an Artist, 1803-1832	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Passionate Man	This is a wonderful book both for the lay reader and for the musically knowledgeable. It says a great deal about how well written this book is that someone like me who knows nothing about music could still enjoy the book so much. Mr. Cairns takes the tale from the birth of Berlioz in 1803  up until 1832, when he was in his late 20's. You learn about his  relationship with his parents, who were opposed to his choice of composer  for a career, and his sisters. We are very fortunate that this was a great  age for letter writing. Mr. Cairns makes judicious use of the  correspondence between Berlioz and his family and friends to the point  where you almost feel yourself to be a friend or family member. You get  inside the young composer's mind as he tries to convince his parents that  his desire to write music is not just a &quot;whim&quot;, but something  that he is absolutely passionate about and must do. Berlioz was also  extremely sensitive and romantic. After seeing the English actress Harriet  Smithson perform on stage in several works by Shakespeare he developed an  obsessive love for her, even though he had never met her. He had an  apartment across the street from where she lived and would longingly watch  her comings and goings. He eventually wrote her several notes expressing  his feelings but she rebuffed him, quite understandably one would think!  (She had also heard a rumor, which was untrue, that he was an epileptic.)  Shortly after coming to the realization that Smithson was unattainable  Berlioz met the virtuoso pianist Camille Moke and they fell in love with  each other and eventually got engaged. Alas, when poor Hector had to go to  Rome to live in order to receive grant money from winning the Prix de Rome,  Camille dumped him and opted for security by marrying a wealthy man. This  soured Hector on women for awhile but did not diminish his love for music,  nature and life. Mr. Cairns has been a professional music critic and is  also a scholar, so he understands and ably explains the technical aspects  of Berlioz's music. I was totally lost in these sections but my ignorance  did not diminish my enjoyment of this sympathetic and wonderfully written  book.	2000-04-25
US	51300959	R29T2L3D1W3BWO	0810916177	417393077	Studies in Impressionism	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Rewalding Experience	If you have a great love for Impressionist painting and want to know about the artists and the people that surrounded them you will enjoy this book. Mr. Rewald had previously written very in-depth books concerning the  histories of Impressionism and Post-Impressionism. This book is a  collection of essays concerning the Impressionists and does repeat some of  the information contained in Rewald's &quot;History Of Impressionism&quot;  but also gives a more detailed look at some topics in that book, such as  Cezanne's relationship with his father and his friendships with the  collector Victor Chocquet and with his fellow (and pretty much unknown)  artist Achille Emperaire. There is also an essay about Paul Durand-Ruel,  the dealer who stuck with the Impressionists through the early years when  you basically couldn't even give their stuff away and there is a short  essay about the oldest (and least well-known) Impressionist, Camille  Pissarro. Pissarro pretty much lived a life of poverty until he was in his  60's but had a very fulfilling artistic and personal life (he was happily  married and had many children) and his modesty and easygoing personality  enabled him to get along with his fellow artists and even to be somewhat of  a mentor to the notoriously difficult Cezanne. I would say that this book  is not for the person who is going in with no previous knowledge of the  artists and the movement, but if you already know a bit and want to learn  more or if you have read other books by Mr. Rewald you will not be  disappointed. For those of you who are new to Mr. Rewald I think you will  enjoy his style of writing. He writes with the descriptive flair of a  novelist and he does not use art-world graduate school style jargon. If you  really want to immerse yourself in the world of these great artists I would  suggest you also check out Mr. Rewald's &quot;History Of  Impressionism&quot; and his excellent biography of Cezanne.	2000-04-09
US	51300959	R2SIDHLRQB013K	0306809338	633207871	Chopin In Paris: The Life And Times Of The Romantic Composer	Books	4	25	30	N	Y	A Major Biography	There are a lot of things to say about this book, most of them good. You come away from the book with the feeling that you have a pretty good understanding of Chopin's personality and also of what his day to day  existence was like. For example, I always had a picture of him being a very  serious and uptight person. And while he could be very stiff and formal in  public, Mr. Szulc shows that in private he could be quite different. Chopin  did not like to give public concerts and you could pretty much count on  your fingers and toes how many such concerts he gave in his whole career.  But he did enjoy going out at night to the homes of friends for little  &quot;get togethers&quot; and he would play the piano for hours at a time  and would get people laughing with his imitations of acquaintances. He  apparently had a great gift for mimicry. One of the best features of the  book is that it quotes extensively from the letters, journals, etc. of  Chopin and George Sand and also of friends such as the artist Eugene  Delacroix. Chopin's personality really comes through in his letters. You  can see his charm and his sense of humor but also his snobbery and  nastiness. It also seems pretty clear that he was an anti-semite, although  Mr.Szulc tries rather desperately to rescue him from that charge by saying  that Chopin really just didn't like the Jews in the music publishing  business, because he felt they were trying to cheat him! He really didn't  mind &quot;other&quot; Jews. Unfortunately, Chopin is quoted about 4-5  times making anti-semitic remarks but no examples are given of him having  anything nice to say so I don't know why Mr. Szulc even tried to come to  his defense in this particular area...I also learned from this book how  highly regarded Chopin was as a pianist. I knew he was a great composer but  he was also considered to be a great virtuoso, on the same level as Liszt.  When playing at those private parties I mentioned above he would improvise  for hours and it  was said by knowledgeable people at the time that it was  a great shame that the public never got to hear these remarkable  improvisations. I also never knew that Chopin spent a great deal of his  time giving piano lessons. He was apparently a very good teacher and the  money he made teaching was a large part of his total income. There is a  very touching section of the book that deals with the death at age 15 of  Chopin's favorite (and most gifted) student, Carl Filtsch. Chopin felt that  this boy had a unique and innate understanding of his music and this  created a special bond between the two of them.Mr. Szulc explains early on  that he is not a musician and therefore the book does not provide any  musical insights. Mr. Szulc is forced into relying on and quoting the  opinions of others when he makes brief forays into the technical aspects of  the music. Professional musicians will probably find the book disappointing  unless they only read the book to get a feel for the personalities  involved. One last note of interest: The picture on the cover is an  enlargement of the only known photograph of Chopin and is so revealing of  his nature that it alone is almost worth the purchase price!	2000-04-04
US	51300959	R2I72AXTT8KEHD	0749003952	98459055	The Riddle and the Knight	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Trip In Search Of The Knight Fantastic!	I purchased this book after reading &quot;Nathaniel's Nutmeg&quot; by the same author. &quot;Nutmeg&quot; was so good that I wanted to read something else by Mr. Milton. &quot;The Riddle And The Knight&quot; wasn't what I  thought it was going to be but it still turned out to be excellent. I  thought it was going to be a pure exercise in scholarship but it is really  a modern day travel book with a lot of the extensive research Mr. Milton  did lightly sprinkled on at the appropriate places. Mr. Milton takes us to  Constantinople, Cyprus, Syria, Jerusalem and The Sinai Peninsula in search  of Sir John. He visits many monasteries and churches and talks with monks,  scholars and knowledgeable laypeople. He examines carvings on columns and  heraldic shields scratched on monastery walls and ceilings by crusading  knights 700 years ago. He even finds a modern day Mandeville in the  phonebook in the town where Sir John was from, to find out if the lady was  any relation! (She thought the name sounded familiar but didn't really know  anything about Sir John.) The book has a nice rhythm to it as it goes back  and forth from medieval to modern times and Mr. Milton works some present  day absurdities, such as the forcible division of Cyprus back in the early  1970's into a Turkish section and a Greek section, into the tale. Sadly,  there is a run down quality to many of the once great towns and cities the  author visited. But the book never veers too far from the two things Mr.  Milton wanted to investigate: Did Sir John Mandeville really exist and did  he really travel to the places he wrote about? I won't spoil the book by  giving anything away but I will say I found Mr. Milton's research,  explanations and conclusions convincing. This was a very interesting twist  on the usual travel book and I found it well-worth reading.	2000-03-28
US	51300959	RIJ922G0AYG9R	031222687X	404528212	Royal Survivor: The Life of Charles II	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	Well-Crafted Tale Makes Politics Interesting	This book is very cleverly put together by Mr. Coote. I've noticed that some of the professional reviews tend to dwell on the more salacious parts but the vast majority of the book is about the power politics involved in  the struggle between Charles and Parliament. It is a tribute to Mr. Coote  that he makes the principles involved interesting and understandable to the  modern reader. He throws in just enough information about Charles's  personal life to provide a nice breather from all the politics. You learn  about all of the mistresses and illegitimate children and how Charles liked  to spend his personal time. He was a very physical and fit man who was  quite tall for the times (6 foot 2) and liked to hunt and fish and play  tennis and was an excellent horseman. The first third or so of the book,  when Charles was on the run from Cromwell and the Roundheads and then in  exile was also very interesting and even exciting. Charles proved himself  to be very brave and resourceful and also intelligent and devious. The book  maintains a nice balance between the political and the personal and is a  good introduction to the times.	2000-03-25
US	51300959	R1LUXKPD74GS8R	0813917743	380577738	Bound Away: Virginia and the Westward Movement	Books	5	116	118	N	N	Virginia Is For Lovers (Of History)	What an excellent book! The last I knew Fischer was working on a big book concerning plantation life in the south and I assume this is a book that developed out of the research he is doing for that book. This book concerns  migration from Britain to Virginia, migration within Virginia and then  migration from Virginia to other states. Most of the book deals with the  1700's up until just before the Civil War. I can't do justice to all the  interesting information that is in this book during the course of a brief  review. The authors explain how people migrated from different parts of  Britain and settled in different areas of Virginia. For example, people  from Northern England and the Scottish border area tended to settle in  southern Virginia. They brought their customs with them which tended to  make southern Virginia different from other areas settled by different  people. For instance, the Tidewater area was settled by younger sons of the  English nobility. These people came over to Virginia because under English  law they were not going to inherit estates back home as the first born sons  had that right. Different speech patterns developed in different areas as  well as different ways of cooking and different forms of architecture, etc.  The book also deals extensively with the lives of slaves and the  institution of slavery and how the mass migrations out of Virginia involved  many, many slaves being taken to other states with their masters or being  sold. When the Virginia tobacco based economy began to falter in the late  1700's the sale of slaves to settlers in other states was a great source of  income to the white people in Virginia who had fallen on hard times. Many  famous people had ancestral origins in Virginia, such as Lincoln, Henry  Clay, Stephen Austin, Sam Houston and General Patton amongst countless  others. There are many firsthand accounts quoted in the book from the  settlers so you get a real feel for the times and there are a number of  wonderful black and white photos, also. This short book is packed with  fascinating details. Thank you Mr. Fischer and Mr. Kelly.	2000-03-17
US	51300959	R34NZOJFOTUPN5	3775708790	722796066	Paul Czanne: Finished - Unfinished	Books	3	17	23	N	N	A Bit Thin On Ideas	This book probably deserves 3 1/2 stars but since I've got to go with round numbers I'd say 3 is closer to the truth than 4. I may have been influenced by the fact that I have read an awful lot of stuff on Cezanne, but I don't think so. This book was put out to coincide with an exhibition  that has &quot;finished/unfinished&quot; as its theme i.e.-when is a  painting truly &quot;complete&quot;. The idea wears a bit thin after 400  pages. The book starts off with essays by about 5-6 people that take up the  first 120 pages. The last couple of essays are interesting and contain some  good ideas but the first several essays pretty much say the same thing over  and over (many of Cezanne's paintings that were not actually finished are  &quot;complete&quot; from an artistic standpoint) and if a couple of these  essays had been left out no harm would have been done. The same point is  hammered home in too many of the &quot;mini-essays&quot; that accompany  each painting and sometimes the contributors get a bit carried away in  seeing genius and &quot;completion&quot; in even the works that are clearly  failures not only by Cezanne's own standards but also, I think, by the  standards of the intelligent layperson and probably also of many art  historians. The book does get high marks, though, for many high quality  color reproductions and the Cezanne lover will be sure to find his/her  favorite genre well-represented. You get many portraits as well as  landscapes and those luscious still-lifes (my particular favorite). One of  the interesting ideas contained in the book is that the reason the  still-life seems to be the category where Cezanne really excelled is that  the subject was the one best suited to his temperament. He was an extremely  slow worker and did not like changes in the &quot;motif&quot;. For example,  he did not like it when human sitters would move and he did not like  changes in the weather and in light conditions as the changes would make  him rethink what he was doing and oftimes start over or have to make  corrections. With the still-life Cezanne could arrange things just the way  he wanted and could use artificial flowers that would not wither as he  worked, etc.  Also note that the book contains many works in watercolor,  which is a medium that Cezanne excelled in. If you are not familiar with  his watercolors I think you will be pleasantly surprised...	2000-03-14
US	51300959	R2C9U3VFU9CFL1	3822865222	12546248	The Art of the Portrait (Masterpieces of European Portrait Painting 1420-1670)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Every Portrait Tells A Story	This is another solid entry in the Taschen line of well done and reasonably priced art books. It is also another wonderful job by Norbert Schneider. (Please see my review of his book &quot;Still Life&quot;.) The  book covers the 15th through the 17th centuries and contains many full page  color reproductions. There are also many smaller reproductions of details  from the portraits being shown and of other paintings which may have been  an inspiration to the artist in question. There are also some very  effective full page black and white closeups of the faces of some of the  sitters. When you look at these black and white reproductions you can  really get a good luck at the fine attention to detail and in many cases  the brushwork is so smooth that you could swear you are looking at a  photograph rather than a painting. Mr. Schneider starts off the book with a  brief introduction to the historical development of the portrait and the  changing goals of the artist and the patron. This section is only about 30  pages but also contains many examples relating to what the author is  talking about. The rest of the book focuses on color plates of particular  portraits and is accompanied by Mr. Schneider's descriptions of the  paintings including explanations of the symbolic meanings of pieces of  clothing and items of jewelry worn by the sitters; what the sitters wanted  to show to the viewer by commissioning the portrait-e.g.-demonstrating  their wealth or power or intellectual achievements, etc.. Mr. Schneider  also gives interesting little biographical tidbits about the artists and  the patrons. His writing style is to the point but not dry. Works by such  artists as Da Vinci, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Titian, Raphael, etc. are  included but also works by lesser known artists, so even if you know a lot  about art you will be able to learn something and be entertained by this  book. Highly recommended and a great bargain at the price!	2000-03-09
US	51300959	R2LNUHOG87FYZT	0140282963	15823720	An Elegant Madness: High Society in Regency England	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Lifestyles Of The Pompous And The Pampered	What an enjoyable piece of fluff! I have read some of the negative reviews by other Amazonians, so I suppose it depends on what you are looking for in this book. I wasn't looking for a serious and scholarly historical work. I  wanted to be entertained with some light social history and this is what I  got. If you want to know what the upper classes ate and how they dressed  and how they kept themselves occupied (I won't say in their &quot;spare  time&quot; as they had nothing but!) you will find this book very  interesting. Ah, those were certainly the days! A young dandy would get up  in the morning and spend a good 2-3 hours at his toilette. (It took a lot  of work to get that cravat looking just right!) If you went out to a nice  restaurant they would have an area where live turtles were on display,  similar to the way that restaurants in our time have live lobsters on  exhibit, as back then they were crazy for turtles and couldn't get enough  of them. Rich people would spend their summers traveling to the country  estates of other rich people. As a welcome guest you would be entertained  at no cost to yourself for a weekend or a week and all you were expected to  do was to provide some interesting conversation. You would travel with your  maids and valets and other servants and they would be provided for as well.  The meals were enormous and the ladies especially had to make sure to bring  plenty of clothing as you would need to change  4-5 times in a day. If you  were one of the members of the nobility who had either gambled or just  overspent yourself into debt, these country trips would be especially nice  for the free room and board you would receive. Unfortunately, you would  merely put off the day of reckoning when you would either go to debtor's  prison or have to flee to the continent to remain a free man! Some  aristocrats would gamble away fortunes in one evening and spend more on  throwing a party than a laborer would make in a lifetime. When you think of  all the money that these people just threw away without making any  contribution to society whatsoever it makes you shake your head and laugh  out loud at the folly of human nature.	2000-03-06
US	51300959	R2R031M5AG7QX	0684809419	287212294	Paul Gauguin	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Go Get &quot;Gauguin&quot;!	I am disappointed to see that this book is out of print but if you have any interest in Gauguin whatsoever, you should try to get your hands on a copy. This is such an excellent book! Mr. Sweetman has clearly done his  homework and he writes beautifully. By the time you finish this book you  will feel as though you knew Gauguin for, as much as such a thing is  possible, Mr. Sweetman gets you inside the artist's head so that you know  what he was thinking and what he was feeling at all the important points of  his life. The author gives a very balanced view of Gauguin and of the  important people in his life, including his wife Mette. Gauguin is not  portrayed as a saint. Mr. Sweetman does not let him off the hook for the  shabby way he sometimes treated his friends and family. In other words,  this behavior is not excused just because Gauguin was a brilliant artist.  On the other hand, Gauguin is not demonized for his irresponsible behavior  either, as he sometimes could be a caring person and a good friend. Gauguin  left notebooks and correspondence, so when Mr. Sweetman gives you his  interpretations of the meanings of some of Gauguin's greatest paintings he  is not whistling in the dark. Gauguin himself is oftimes present to tell  you what he was trying to do. One of the nice things about the book is that  it does not focus exclusively on  Gauguin. You learn what what was going on  in the Paris art world. There is interesting information given about other  artists, such as Camille Pissarro and Emile Bernard and you also learn  about some of the art dealers, such as Durand-Ruel and Vollard. You are  given in depth information of what was going on in the French communities  on Tahiti and in the Marquesas. Mr. Sweetman also provides a sympathetic  and reasonable explanation for Gauguin's behavior following the death of  Vincent Van Gogh. As Mr. Sweetman says in the book, the picture most people  have of Gauguin is based almost completely on the portrayal by AnthonyQuinn in the 1950's movie &quot;Lust For Life&quot;. If you read this  wonderful book you will get a much more well-rounded picture of what this  very complicated man was truly like.	2000-03-03
US	51300959	R3OWPFGKWXF3IP	379131131X	825007949	Hokusai: Prints and Drawings (African, Asian & Oceanic Art)	Books	3	26	29	N	Y	Great Art But Poor Writing	This book gets 3 stars for the beautiful reproductions of Hokusai's work. There are approximately 130 plates, most of them in gorgeous color. But I found the text by Mr. Forrer to be very disappointing. There is an opening  chapter of around 30 pages which is meant to give you some information  about Hokusai and Japanese art in general. It is very straighforward and  written in a dry manner. I was hoping for more of a biographical sketch of  Hokusai but did not get it. Mr. Forrer writes that &quot;apparently Hokusai  lived for his art&quot;. Is that supposed to mean that he didn't have a  life? I doubt that is the case but unfortunately it is how Mr. Forrer  excuses the fact that he doesn't really tell us anything about the man who  is generally thought to be the greatest artist Japan has ever produced. The  descriptions that accompany the plates are equally disappointing. Hokusai  worked mainly in woodblocks and Mr. Forrer spends a lot of time telling us  about what variations (reproductions of which are not included) of these  woodblocks looked like. He does this on page after page and I found it  annoying. Mr. Forrer hammers home the same points on page after page rather  than trying to make each plate interesting and distinctive. He keeps  pointing out Hokusai's use of linear perspective and of his western style  of painting skies (showing individual clouds rather than the traditional  Japanese method of just painting a flat wash with some haze for the entire  sky). This is interesting the first couple of times you read it but gets  tedious after awhile. There is much more that could have been said about  these works.If you just want to look at some pretty pictures you will enjoy  this book. If you want a more complete picture you will need to look  elsewhere.	2000-02-19
US	51300959	RAU4L96PH08FM	0805040811	883097346	Lords of the Horizons: A History of the Ottoman Empire	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Haze On The Horizon	This was a disappointing read. I had heard so much hype about this book that I was really looking forward to it and assumed it would be a 5 star production. Alas, it was not to be. The book is not well organized. It  jumps around through time and space so much that you don't get the feeling  that you are reading something coherent and substantial. There are also too  many anecdotes thrown in that are presented as factual but seem to me to  have a tall-tale quality to them. You start to wonder what is true and what  is not. Fortunately, here and there are bits that are interesting and  well-written, which is why I am giving the book 3 stars. 2 such highlights  are the sieges of Constantinople and Vienna by the Ottomans in 1453 and  1683, respectively. These sections have a nice narrative flow and are  exciting to read. I only wish that I could have said the same for the rest  of this book....	2000-02-18
US	51300959	R1SPPSQAAORV0D	0881339210	342037738	The Splendid Century: Life in the France of Louis XIV	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	Brilliantly Illuminating	What can you say about a book that gives you Louis XIV sitting on the grass at Versailles carrying on a conversation with a little girl? This is history with a human face. When Louis made the little girl laugh he knew  she liked him for himself and not because she was trying to gain the favor  of The Sun King.  When you think of Versailles do you think of elegance  and sumptuosness? Of course! But do you also picture courtiers eating soup  out of one tureen using a communal spoon? Or of using a piece of stale  bread as a plate? And if you were lucky enough to be in residence at  Versailles your living quarters were likely to be the size of a small attic  room. And that's if you were lucky!  This book is also much more than  just Louis and Versailles. It lives up to its subtitle. For you also learn  about how the church and the army operated; what it was like to be a  peasant or a member of the impoverished nobility; there is an excellent  chapter on the bureaucracies involved surrounding doctors and dentists;  life for a criminal sentenced to the galleys; the education of women, etc.  I cannot say enough good things about this book. It is only about 285  pages but there is so much learning and entertainment between the covers  that you will be amazed. Probably the best thing I can say is that even  though it was written almost 50 years ago, the book does not seem dated in  the least. I would imagine that in the scholarly world things have come to  light which might necessitate changing some things here and there but for  the general reader it does not get any better than this! I will always have  the image of little Louis (he was only 5 feet 5 inches) sitting on the  grass, charming and being charmed by that anonymous little girl...	2000-02-11
US	51300959	RO2ZU1XDGSYOW	3791322184	842149623	Childe Hassam: American Impressionist	Books	3	34	43	N	Y	Too Sketchy	Who was Childe Hassam and who is Ulrich Hiesinger? I'm not sure and I have no idea. I looked all over this book and I couldn't find even a brief biographical sketch of Mr. Hiesinger. Is he a journalist or an artist or a  professor? I suppose I will never know. I do know a bit more about Childe  Hassam. For one thing, his first name was really Frederick. There are some  pretty extensive excerpts from letters that he wrote and he was an  opinionated fellow, so you do get to know a little bit about him. He liked  American artists and did not care much for European artists. He thought  very highly of himself.... I wanted to know more about the soul of the man  but in that I was disappointed. The book is too much of a travelogue and  skips from place to place in New England and Europe following Hassam around  and giving cold facts about when he was in this place and what he painted  there. There is not enough analysis of the paintings. Mr. Hiesinger is very  vague about what he thinks makes a particular piece good or bad, except  that in general he seems to think that sketchy is good and highly finished  is bad. I beg to differ, by the way. Hassam obviously had a lot of talent  but he produced too much work because he depended totally on sales to  provide his living. One strong point of this book is that there are almost  200 reproductions, most of them in color. It allows you to see that Hassam  produced a few great paintings and a few good ones, but also many mediocre  works. He was at his best when he was young, in my opinion as later on he  tended to dash things off to maximize sales. He was obviously greatly  influenced by the French Impressionists although this apparently was a sore  spot with him.  If you want an introduction to Hassam this is worth  reading. If you know that you like his work it is worth buying for the many  high quality plates. If you want a definitive biography, this is not the  book for you. Tantalizingly, Mr. Hiesinger mentions in a couple of places  that Hassam apparently had a lifetime problem with alcohol. You are never  even given a clue as to what demons were in his closet...of places  that Hassam apparently had a lifetime problem with alcohol. You are never  even given a clue as to what demons were in his closet...	2000-02-07
US	51300959	R2IX8I6CXV9E5D	3822802964	564546685	Still Life: Still Life Painting in the Early Modern Period	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Not Just Fruit And Flowers	This is an excellent entry in the Taschen series of art books. The author is a Professor of Art History at the University of Munster, Germany. The book deals mostly with still life paintings done by German and Dutch artists during the 1500's and 1600's. What I especially enjoyed was that  the book is broken down into sections describing the many different types  of still lifes done within the genre. For example, there are chapters on  kitchen scenes; game still lifes (deer and stags, etc. not Nintendo!);  musical instruments; weapons; books, etc. I read a lot of art books, but I  had no idea there were so many different types of still life paintings! Mr.  Schneider gives you the &quot;codes&quot; to decipher what the objects in a  still life mean. For example, in religious still lifes grapes and glasses  of wine and loaves of bread represent the eucharist. Many people know that,  but there are other, less obvious, examples. A mouse, for example, can  represent evil and butterflies can represent resurrection. Mr.Schneider  also explains how cultural and economic factors tie in to objects shown in  other still lifes. For example, some kitchen scenes are filled to the brim  with all sorts of food and may be shown to represent the wealth of the  patron or just to show the bountiful supply of food created by improved  agricultural methods or even to be a warning against gluttony! This book is  full of beautiful color plates and Mr. Schneider writes in a reader  friendly manner, blissfully free of art world jargon. I felt that  considering the quality of the paper and of the reproductions that the  price was very reasonable, too. Thumbs up!	2000-02-04
US	51300959	R3B1DKR1Z64JQG	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Haunting	I just finished a wonderful book called &quot;Empires Of The Monsoon&quot; by Richard Hall, which dealt with an earlier period of colonialism and covered a broader canvas. It was so interesting that I took this book down  from my bookshelves and decided to read it right after the Hall book.  Hochschild  has a rather radical pedigree (Mother Jones magazine) so I was  concerned about getting an unsubtle diatribe but for the most part the  author manages to restrain himself. He very cleverly eases you into this  horror story with some beautifully written early chapters which give  wonderful character studies of King Leopold and Henry Morton Stanley, among  others. Only then do you get hammered with the awful things that the  Belgians did to the Congolese. Mr. Hochschild can't resist a few potshots  at the free traders and unbridled capitalists but for the most part he  wisely sticks to personalities.      Sections of this book are pretty  gruesome. Be forewarned that there are some photographs that may leave you  kind of queasy. Leopold's henchmen were quite enthusiastic about their work  and you start to get emotionally numbed by all the decapitations and  severed hands (and other lopped off body parts) but Mr. Hochschild  throws  in the occasional change of pace by giving you a chapter on a specific  personality. (Did I forget to mention Joseph Conrad, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle  and Mark Twain? They are here also, along with many other interesting  people I had never heard of before.)     One of the things that bothered me  after finishing this book was that I never was taught anything in school  about what happened in the Congo. Possibly 10 million natives died under  this brutal regime. It kind of makes me think that if you want a true  education you are on your own...	2000-02-01
US	51300959	R2U8JD9TKOSO61	0714833347	829919184	Drer: Colour Library (Phaidon Colour Library)	Books	4	26	27	N	Y	You'll Adore Durer!	This book was a very pleasant addition to my art library. I never saw it in a bookstore, so I was hesitant to buy it when I saw how little it cost and how small it was. But, I didn't know anything about Durer and wanted to  learn and I figured I'd take a chance on this book. Good decision! This  book is well put together and a tremendous bargain to boot. The book starts  off with about a 25 page, obviously brief, biography by Mr. Bailey of  Durer. Then there are 48 full page color plates with descriptions and  explanations of the paintings on the opposing pages. The reproductions are  of good quality and the descriptions are well written and informative. Any  of you out there who own a lot of art books know what 48 color plates  usually does to the price of an art book, so &quot;Durer&quot; is really a  steal. After you see this book you will realize what a great all-around  artist Durer was. He wasn't only a painter of religious scenes but an  equally talented landscape and portrait painter. (Some of the portraits are  just fantastic!) He also did some beautiful nature studies. Included are 2  paintings he did of a hare and of the wings of a bird that will just knock  your socks off (assuming you wear socks!). He worked well in all mediums.  The watercolors are as beautiful as the oils. Phaidon has a whole series of  these books in their &quot;colour library&quot; and this book makes me want  to check out some of the other titles concerning other artists I haven't  learned about yet. Definitely worth purchasing as an introduction to an  extremely gifted artist!	2000-01-23
US	51300959	R35RF13ODFIMK8	0060194340	871914389	The Civilization of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	24	24	N	Y	Think Like An (Ancient) Egyptian	I just came off of reading another book by Paul Johnson, &quot;A History Of The American People&quot;, so this was quite a switch! Once again, Mr. Johnson has impressed me with his erudition and pleased me with his smooth  style. Right up front, let me say that I was as ignorant as you can get  concerning this subject before I read this book, so my knowledge level had  nowhere to go but up! If you already know a lot about this subject you may  not find this book worthwhile. That being said, if you don't know much  about ancient Egypt this book is a good starting point. Mr. Johnson gives  you some actual history as far as talking of events and dynasties, etc. but  the majority of the book deals with the religious beliefs of the Egyptians  and their art, and how the two were intimately connected. There is also an  excellent chapter on hieroglyphs. One of the strong suits of the book is  how it gets you into the mind of the ancient Egyptians and you start to see  things the way they might have. Mr. Johnson explains such things as why, on  wall paintings, people were shown in profile rather than giving us a  frontal view and why the Egyptian artist intentionally chose not to use  aerial perspective. (Sorry, you'll have to read the book to find out!)  Suffice it to say, when you look at things after knowing what the Egyptians  believed you will be able to appreciate their achievements all the more.  The book is also useful in showing the link between Egyptian art and  religion and what came later (Greek and Roman culture; Christianity;  Judaism, etc.) Highly recommended!	2000-01-21
US	51300959	R3MLXOHJFJQEQR	046505711X	122798525	The Pity Of War	Books	3	77	97	N	N	A Few (Only A Few!) Trenchant Observations	I went into this book with high expectations. Unfortunately, these expectations were not met. If this material is considered controversial and revolutionary I cannot understand why. Mr. Ferguson devotes hugh chunks of  this book to attempting to prove things that are either obvious or not all  that important or that will never be proven one way or another. He states  Germany wasn't as militaristic as historians have usually made her out to  be. He tries to prove this several ways. He gives statistics to show that  on the eve of war the allies were much more prepared in terms of military  hardware. But this wasn't for lack of trying on Germany's part! There was  an arms race and Germany was not able to keep up. Mr. Ferguson also quotes  German novelists and poets who were anti-war before the war. Would you  expect artistic people to be pro-war? He quotes German politicians and  military men and even the Kaiser to show that they had doubts about waging  war. Unfortunately, the main reason they had their doubts was that they  weren't sure that they could win! They weren't pacifists. Mr. Ferguson  seems to think that most people thought the war was inevitable and he goes  to a lot of trouble proving the war did not have to happen and that up  until the last moment England was undecided about entering. I think very  few people thought the war was inevitable. War is seldom inevitable and  that is the true pity of war.... A large portion of the book is a rehash of  other material showing what it was like to be a soldier at the front. Mr.  Ferguson asks why did the soldiers fight on and on year after year and  gives several answers: to seek revenge for their comrades who had been  killed; because they had a &quot;death wish&quot;; because they enjoyed  killing, etc. I'm sorry but I do not find any of this to be novel  information. One of the few interesting sections of the book presents Mr.  Ferguson's thesis that the reparations demanded from Germany were not  outrageous and were not responsible for the hyperinflation that developed  in Germany in the early 1920's. The author presents some solid information  that Germany's own internal economic policy (intentional inflation to allow  depreciation of the mark and hence cheap exports, too high social spending,  etc) was responsible for the hyperinflation. The closing chapter of this  book has caused all the brouhaha as this is where Mr. Ferguson states that  if England stayed out of the war she would not have ruined her economy and  become a second rate power;Germany would have won the war and created a  unified Europe with herself at the center;Hitler would not have come to  power and hence we would have had no WWII. This is all interesting and  plausible and even logical. Why are people calling it controversial?  Unfortunately, you have to get through over 400 pages of dubious and not so  creative actual historical analysis before you get to some interesting  counter-factual speculation!	2000-01-17
US	51300959	R1RWCW3KQO6CK2	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	4	372	410	N	N	Should Have Stopped With 1960	I find it very disappointing that most people have a kneejerk reaction to Paul Johnson. It seems as though if you are a conservative you love him and if you are a liberal you hate him. I find this very unfair. Mr. Johnson is always entertaining and frequently thought provoking. After reading this  book I have already bought biographies of Benjamin Franklin and Thomas  Edison because Mr. Johnson has brought them to life and has caused me to  want to learn more about them. For example, did you know that Mr. Edison  would frequently sleep under the table in his workshop so as to be able to  go right back to work when he woke up? Or that Calvin Coolidge once  summoned some of his staff in the White House and then hid under his desk  so that they couldn't find him? But this doesn't mean that this book is  full of fluff either. Mr. Johnson also gives you much &quot;straight&quot;  history and is not afraid to give you his opinions of the people and their  policies. He clearly thinks that Jefferson, FDR and John Kennedy were  overrated and Coolidge underrated, for example. He greatly admires Lincoln  and Theodore Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan. Probably one of the great lessons  of this book is that some distance is needed before a person or an event  can be judged fairly. Years ago one heard almost only positive things about  Thomas Jefferson. In recent years the pendulum has somewhat swung the other  way especially where Jefferson's writings on slavery are now seen to  diverge quite a bit from his practices in real life. But the beauty of this  book lies in the uncovering of personality. We also learn that Jefferson  had no sense of humor and that though he was a compulsive record keeper and  wrote down everything that he bought and sold he had absolutely no idea of  his financial situation, which was always getting worse, throughout his  life. He liked to present himself as a common farmer but spent vast sums on  fine wines and fancy clothes. He was a compulsive book buyer. He tended to  get migraines when under pressure. He was a minimalist as far as believing  in the power of the national government but did not hesitate to make the  Louisiana Purchase. In short, like all interesting people he was  inconsistent and quirky. I have dwelled on Jefferson but Mr. Johnson brings  numerous historical figures to life in the same way. I found the last 100  pages of the book disappointing in its handling of events since 1960. I  understand that many negative things about JFK have come to light in the  last 20 years or so but Mr. Johnson has nothing positive at all to say  about him. The space program, for example, is not shown in a positive light  at all but as a Kennedy obsession about &quot;competing&quot; and  &quot;having to win&quot;. Likewise, Mr. Johnson has nothing to say about  the serious personal flaws in the personality of Richard Nixon. It is clear  that Mr. Nixon throughout his life got a very unfair deal from a lot of the  press but is it not true that he was a bit paranoid about his perceived  enemies and therefore worsened the situation? Mr. Johnson states as a  blanket fact that Mr. Nixon knew nothing of the Watergate break-in  beforehand. This is possible, but then Mr. Johnson has nothing at all to  say about the coverup, which Nixon clearly did know about. The job of the  historian is to present all sides of an issue and not to ignore unpleasant  facts that do not support what you are trying to prove. It is also curious  that Mr. Johnson makes no attempt to analyze whether or not the U.S. should  ever have been in Vietnam. He faults the politicians for not listening to  the military in saying that an all-out massive effort was needed or the war  could not be won. In short, more discussion of both sides of the issue was  needed. But if you forget the last 40 years or so, the bulk of this book is  excellent.	2000-01-09
US	51300959	R2QUB4Q8HC599I	0472108190	929526617	Bathing in Public in the Roman World	Books	3	36	45	N	N	Could Have Used A Good (Editor's) Scrubbing !	This book makes me remember why I chose not to go to graduate school! Every page is filled to the brim with footnotes and the appendixes, index and bibliography, etc. are as long as the book is itself! The author hems and haws so much and is so hesitant to commit himself to a definitive statement that I wanted to grab him by his lapels and give him a good shaking! The middle section of this already brief book (220 pages of actual reading material....but don't forget those footnotes that sometimes take up 1/2 a page) is mind numbingly boring and almost enough to totally ruin the book. This section deals with who actually decided to build or repair the baths and is full of statistics that I'm sure make Mr. Fagan's colleagues happy but will not endear him to the public. You might be asking yourself at this point, &quot;So why is this vituperative joker giving this book 3 stars?&quot;. Good question! The answer is because the first and last thirds of the book are quite interesting and well-written! You learn who went to the baths and why. You get a lot of fascinating material concerning the social aspects of bathing. Some people would go to the baths and spend all of their time trying to wangle a dinner invitation out of somebody.  Vendors would set up stalls outside of the baths selling light snacks to the bathers. Some people would go the baths looking for sex or just hoping to get a good look at some nude men or women. People would bathe because they thought it was good for their health, but when Mr. Fagan explains that in some baths the sick could bathe with the healthy and that people would commonly oil themselves up and then scrape off dirt and oil into the communal bathwater, you wonder just how healthy the whole thing could have been! So, overall I found this book worth reading although next time around I hope a good editor gets ahold of Mr. Fagan.	1999-12-21
US	51300959	R27E13JIEQDPDY	0393045242	362438183	Three Worlds of Michelangelo	Books	4	21	23	N	N	The Divine Mr. M	To start off, I can't believe this book is out of print already! I'd still like to write a review, because this is a very good book and perhaps the publisher will do a new hardcover print run or come up with a paperback  edition..... Mr. Beck is a professor of art history at Columbia University  in New York City. One of the nice things about this book, though, is that  it is written for the layperson. It is not full of technical terms and art  world jargon. Even better, it is well written. Professor Beck has a very  good style of writing so the book flows along very smoothly. I think the  author's intention was to balance out the popular picture of Michelangelo  as a tortured, ill-mannered genius. Professor Beck shows him to be, in some  respects, a pretty regular fellow. For example, we find out that Pope  Julius appreciated him for his ironic, sarcastic and apparently typically  Tuscan sense of humor. Michelangelo also was always very much a person  concerned with the well-being of his family. Although he never married and  never had any children he was deeply attached to his father and his  brothers. Once he started to earn some money he was always very good about  helping his family financially. One of the strong suits of this book is  that Professor Beck constantly shows us the humanity behind the artist.  Although Michelangelo loved his father it is also true that his father  never approved of his choice of career. An artist was not highly regarded  back in those days and when Michelangelo decided to become a sculptor,  well, that was even worse. Imagine going around with your clothes full of  marble dust all the time! Michelangelo was always looking for approval from  his father and he never got it. The book also covers Michelangelo's  relationship with Lorenzo The Magnificent and Pope Julius II. We get an  especially nicely rounded portrait of Julius as a warrior pope who was more  interested in power and politics and women than in culture, but who  nevertheless appreciated the talent of Michelangelo. He also had a fierce  temper and when Michelangelo answered the question, &quot;When will the  ceiling of the Sistine Chapel be finished?&quot; with &quot;It'll be done  when it is done...&quot; threatened to have some lackeys go up and have  Michelangelo thrown off of the scaffolding! My only complaint with this  book is that perhaps Professor Beck goes a little too far trying to portray  Michelangelo as a &quot;nice&quot; guy and basically somebody that really  had no faults whatsoever. But as I wrote near the start of this review I  think the intent was to try to swing the pendulum the other way..... Still,  this book is very good and well worth reading.	1999-12-19
US	51300959	RVAP25XDHCXR	0520067436	88119148	The Adventures of Ibn Battuta, a Muslim Traveler of the Fourteenth Century	Books	4	125	129	N	Y	World-Class Traveler !	It is incredible to think that back in the 1300's one person could have traveled from Morocco through North and East Africa, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Turkey, the Crimea, India, Ceylon, Indonesia and China. I get tired just  writing about it! But this is what Ibn Battuta did. When you think of how  difficult (and dangerous!) it was to travel back in those days, it is just  amazing. What makes this book especially fascinating is the look it  provides into Muslim society. Here was a man who journeyed thousands of  miles over many, many years but who only very rarely felt himself to be a  stranger in a strange land. In some places Islam was in the majority and in  some places it was the minority but Ibn Battuta was always able to find  educated Moslems similar to himself who could provide a place to live, food  to eat, clothes to wear and money to spend. Very importantly also, they  could provide spiritual support to a person very far from home. This book  is best when it settles down in one place for an extended period, such as  when Ibn Battuta journeyed to Medina and Mecca. This is the most important  trip a Moslem takes during an entire lifetime and it is expected, health  and finances permitting, that a believer will make the trip at least once  in a lifetime. Medina is where the tomb of The Prophet is and Mecca was His  birthplace. Mr. Dunn provides a physical description of the landscape of  both places so that you can almost feel you are there and he also gives a  fascinating description of the logistics of the journey as this is a trip  that thousands of people would take each year and a solid support system  was needed to provide transportation and food and water, etc. The religious  ceremonies that a person was required to go through once in the Holy Cities  is also given in great detail. The book is also very good when Ibn Battuta  settles down in India for awhile and gets a nice, cushy government job  working for a despot who sounds as though he was probably psychotic! You  could be in his favor one minute but apparently if you looked at him the  wrong way he might decide on the spur of the moment to have you executed.  He would also come up with grandiose ideas to rearrange the entire society  which would usually wind up making everyone miserable, if not dead. Kind of  sounds pretty familiar, doesn't it? I guess some things don't change over  the centuries..... Anyway, the only drawback to this book is that Mr. Dunn  is trying to cram a lot of travel into a 300 page book so that some of the  time you feel as though you are being given the &quot;bum's rush&quot; on  one of those modern package trips where they shuttle you through 14 cities  in 14 days. After awhile some of the itinerary starts to become one, big  blur. It makes you wish that Mr. Dunn would have decided to write a longer  book where things could have proceeded at a more leisurely pace. But this  book is a good starting point and it gave me a glimpse into a world I knew  very little about but would like to learn more of.	1999-12-13
US	51300959	R3IOKPOV7M2VIA	0446524999	593108560	The Arcanum: The Extraordinary True Story	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Potty About Porcelain !	Who ever thought a book about porcelain could be so engrossing? Ms. Gleeson has written an exciting (yes....exciting!), fascinating tale. It is a combination of science and adventure with some industrial espionage  thrown in. The biographical aspects are excellent also. You get a real feel  for the personalities who are portrayed in this book: the profligate king  (Augustus) who is desperate for a way to finance his out-of-control  spending, so he pins his hopes on alchemy!; the teenage alchemist (Johannn  Bottger) who draws attention to himself with a magic trick that fools  people into thinking he has found a way to create gold, and thereby gets  himself locked away by Augustus until he can duplicate the feat! But  Bottger was no charlatan. He really thought he could do it.... The tension  builds as Augustus invests lots of money in Bottger's enterprise but starts  to get impatient when he doesn't see any results.... Poor Bottger even  manages to escape for a short while because he is afraid of being executed  for his failure. Eventually, he saves himself by coming up with a  commercially viable formula for porcelain.... but it wasn't easy! This is a  relatively brief book but it is filled with many interesting characters  besides the two mentioned above and the action moves around to various  cities as people who have worked with Bottger try to smuggle out the secret  formula and shop it around to other kings and princes...... A very  enjoyable (and educational!) book.	1999-12-10
US	51300959	R1WX5I8J17MEGI	067940256X	566124428	Rembrandt's Eyes	Books	5	177	183	N	Y	A Tour De Force	This is a brilliant, beautiful piece of work by Mr. Schama. As mentioned elsewhere, it is really a dual biography of Rubens and Rembrandt. But it is much more than that. It is also an in depth portrait of 17th century  Holland, politically and socially. The book holds your interest because it  constantly shifts gears from talking about Rubens/Rembrandt to telling you  what was going on in Antwerp and Amsterdam at the time and then you get to  see the wonderful pictures and to read Mr. Schama's sparkling commentaries.  I have read almost all of Mr. Schama's books and have always admired his  writing style. This is not a dry, academic treatise. All of the characters  come to life as they do in the best novels. Unless you are an expert on  Rembrandt I also think you will be surprised at some of the paintings,  drawings and etchings that are reproduced in this book. I am an art lover  but have mainly read up on the Impressionists and Post-Impressionists. I  didn't know much about Rembrandt other than remembering that he did a lot  of self-portraits and that he was very big on chiaroscuro. I thought in  terms of there being a sameness to the style in his works but after reading  this book you will see how much his art changed throughout his life. There  are a few landscapes that have a Romantic- almost Caspar David Friedrich-  look to them. Especially in the later work with the rough handling of the  paint you can see an influence on Cezanne and Van Gogh. My only complaint  about the book, and it is a very minor complaint, is that maybe 3 or 4 of  the reproductions are too small to see some of the details that the author  is describing. But this is a wonderful book. I am only sorry that now that  I have finished it I will have to wait 5 years or so to see what Mr. Schama  comes up with next!	1999-12-05
US	51300959	RV2RWXT1TLIKJ	0679446516	966811716	Cairo: The City Victorious	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Mad About Max!	What a pleasure it was to read this book! Mr. Rodenbeck manages to cram a lot of fascinating information into just 267 pages. The book ranges over an  enormous period of time, from the days of the pharoahs right up until the  present. Obviously, in such a short book you can't go really in depth but  somehow after you're done reading you feel that you really understand Cairo  and the people who live there. I learned many interesting things. Did you  know that a thousand years ago Cairo was full of apartment buildings that  ranged from 7 stories up to possibly 14 stories high? The city was so small  considering the size of the population that they had nowhere to go but up!  Another fascinating fact was that when the pharoah Cheops had his pyramid  built at Giza the specifications called for 2.3 million stone blocks of an  average weight of 2.5 tons to be used. In order for the pyramid to be  completed during the 30 years of Cheops's reign this meant that a stone  block had to be into place every 2 minutes! I could go on and on. You learn  something on every page: about the physical layout of the city and how it  has changed over the centuries; its relationship to the Nile; the way the  wealthy and the middle class and the poor live; the importance of Islam and  the struggle to find a balance between religion and the secular world;  about such leaders as Farouk, Nasser and Sadat; the occupation of Cairo by  Napoleon and later on by the British. One of the best things about the book  is that Mr. Rodenbeck does not let himself get in the way of this wonderful  story. He describes the way things have been in the past and the way they  are now and he doesn't preach or predict or otherwise feel the need to  insert his ego into what he has written. This is really an excellent book!	1999-10-28
US	51300959	R37JAT6AT0AXDQ	0452280907	862818905	Fortune Is a River: Leonardo da Vinci Niccolo Machiavelli's Magnificent Dream Change Course Florenti	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Oddly Uneven, But Worth A Look	After reading this book I felt that to a degree its central thesis barely held together. The title implies that there was a fascinating collaboration between the two men. Upon completing the book, I came away with the feeling  that that was hardly the case. The connection between  Da Vinci and  Machiavelli seems tenuous. They hardly seemed to have met or talked to each  other very much. It almost made me feel like the author was looking for a  &quot;hook&quot; that would make the book more appealing. There was also an  anecdote thrown in about a sexual liaison that Machiavelli had and a few  ribald comments from the correspondence of his contemporaries which to me  seemed unnecessary to include. There was no point being made by all this  except, I guess, to show that Machiavelli and his mates were just as human  as you or I. I kind of knew that anyway..... However, don't let me give you  the impression that the book has nothing to offer. I found the material on  Leonardo very interesting. People do tend to think of him only as an artist  and Mr. Masters does an admirable job of also showing us the scientist,  inventor, military engineer, etc. We also get to see the constant struggle  Leonardo had to go through  just to make a living. His patrons would be  annoyed by his perfectionism and would threaten to cancel contracts and  would be slow to hand over money. The author also puts a human face on  Machiavelli and shows his efforts to keep his head above water in the  treacherous and constantly shifting political landscape of Renaissance  Florence. Some readers may find the book worth buying just for the many  interesting sketches and drawings by Leonardo which are included. But if  you are a lot more interested in Machiavelli than you are in Leonardo, or  if you are looking for that quirky partnership promised in the title, you  might be disappointed.	1999-10-07
US	51300959	R1I89I2T34OLB2	1568362498	557225571	The Scents of Eden: A History of the Spice Trade	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A Cornucopia (Pardon The Pun) Of Well-Told Tales	I just finished &quot;Nathaniel's Nutmeg&quot; last week and since I had not yet had my fill of spices I decided to keep right on going with this book. It was a good decision. Both books are excellent. &quot;Nathaniel's  Nutmeg&quot; covers a shorter period of time and the author is mainly  interested in the power struggle between the Dutch and English. In  &quot;The Scents of Eden&quot;, Mr. Corn uses a broader canvas. He gives  information about the Portuguese, who preceded the other countries. He  provides interesting character sketches of Magellan and other explorers,  which you might have expected to find in a book such as this, but he also  traces the exploits of the Jesuit, Francis Xavier. The book then moves into  the battle between the Dutch and the English and we get interesting little  asides, such as at the execution of Sir Walter Raleigh when Sir Walter  asked to run his finger along the executioner's blade and then quipped:  &quot;This is sharp medicine, but it is a sure cure for all diseases.&quot;  Mr. Corn continues past the struggle between Holland and England and gives  some interesting information about the entrance of the United States into  the spice trade and the rise of Salem (yes, that Salem!) as a major player  in pepper. I also learned that in 1873 the Dutch started a war in the East  Indies against Aceh. This struggle continued for 40 years and Holland lost  250,000 men. I consider myself pretty well read but I had never known  anything about this. The book is full of interesting things like this but  don't get the impression that it is dry or boring. Mr. Corn is equally  adept at giving well crafted descriptions of men and scenery and life  aboard ship. You will be both educated and entertained. What more could you  want?	1999-10-01
US	51300959	R33FPCXBGWB5Q5	0374219362	222301968	Nathaniel's Nutmeg: Or, The True and Incredible Adventures of the Spice Trader Who Changed The Course Of History	Books	5	84	87	N	Y	Not Just A Nifty Title	Put on your windbreaker and get a firm grasp on both arms of your easychair and get ready for a great adventure! This book is that good. It flies along at breakneck speed with never a dull moment. Mr. Milton has a  wonderful style and he has obviously done a tremendous amount of research  in putting this book together. There are a lot of quotes from the primary  sources, which makes for very interesting reading as you get a&quot;you are  there&quot; feel. Actually, Nathaniel Courthope, from the title of the book  is only a relatively small, though integral, part of the story. Mr. Milton  gives brief but vivid character sketches of many of the Dutch and English  sailors, merchants and explorers who were involved in this long and bloody  trade war. Also, the book is not confined to just talking about the East  Indies. It moves around from England, Holland, India, etc. to the Arctic  and the search for a Northeast Passage and to Manhattan and the Hudson  River and the search for a Northwest Passage. One note for the squeamish:  the participants in the fight for control of the nutmeg trade did not obey  the Marquis of Queensbury's rules for fighting fair. The book is full of  beheadings; people being keelhauled and drawn and quartered and there is a  horrific chapter on English sailors being tortured by their Dutch captors  that is worthy of the worst things done during the Spanish Inquisition. If  your picture of the Dutch East India Company is one of fat and jolly pipe  smoking burghers, think again!	1999-09-25
US	51300959	R10229JHUCFXY5	067974438X	415705723	Tastes of Paradise: A Social History of Spices, Stimulants, and Intoxicants	Books	3	21	25	N	Y	Will Leave You Hungry For More	I enjoyed this book. It is well written and interesting and I learned quite a bit. The reason I only gave it 3 stars is that the book is too short. There are sections where you wish Mr. Schivelbusch had fleshed  things out a bit. The book has many interesting illustrations but in a 228  page book over 100 pages of illustrations are just too much! So, be  forewarned! If you are looking for some depth to sink your teeth into this  is not the book for you. However, if you are satisfied by small portions  than by all means.....Bon Appetit!	1999-09-23
US	51300959	R2EXM0RK470XCH	0679408371	100924305	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Better As A Magazine Article	I just finished reading this book last night and wanted to write this review while I could still remember what I read. Mr. Gleick throws so much information at you and most of it is so obvious that this is not the kind  of book that will stay with you. There is some attempt at analysis but not  that much. This book would have been better as a magazine article because  Mr. Gleick could have made his point in a much shorter format. Other than  giving us a lot of examples of how technology has accelerated our lives he  just doesn't have all that much to say.	1999-09-16
US	51300959	R1EI6XVARPPD84	0385476841	837575213	Worldly Goods	Books	4	23	25	N	N	The Early Stages of Consumption!	If you sometimes feel that the modern age is spiritually bankrupt, what with all the conspicuous consumption and &quot;keeping up with the Jones's&quot; that goes on and if you yearn for earlier and simpler times-  well, you might find this book a bit of a revelation. Ms. Jardine shows us  that even back in the 15th and 16th centuries wealthy people wanted to  acquire all the art, jewelry,books, etc. they could afford and when they  got carried away even more than they could afford. Kings and princes would  borrow beyond their means and die surrounded by opulence and debt.  Collectors of beautiful objects would become so obsessive that they  sometimes could not wait for other wealthy people to die so that they could  get their hands on their collections too! People would even collect books  as status symbols. A wealthy nobleman might retain a scholar to travel  through Europe to buy the &quot;right&quot; books to add to his library.  These would be in Latin and Greek. The fact that the nobleman might not be  capable of reading the language in question wouldn't matter for the book  would look good in his library. Ms. Jardine has an engaging style and the  book is beautifully illustrated. My only complaints are that the section  dealing with printing tends to give some obvious historical information  which is not central to the books thesis and that as you near the end of  the book you may feel that things are becoming a bit repetitious. But  overall I found the book very enjoyable!	1999-09-10
