US	51317312	R1S5TRPF5IVZ6R	0618441433	6879606	Josie and Jack: A Novel	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Relationship In A Bottle	Isolated and incestuous, Josie and Jack are inseparable teenage siblings who when faced with the necessity to function in a larger world stumble disastrously. Their story of hermetic love fueled by wanton self-indulgence of epic proportionality takes place in the almost complete absence of parenting. Mother, whose elusive presence in the lives of her children is magnified by her absence, has obliterated herself suicidally when Josie and Jack are four and six years of age respectively. And their frighteningly abusive, megalomaniacal father is home only on weekends throughout the years when guidance and care are so critical to the development of character and the values by which to structure one's life. Furthermore, the children are excused from attending school as father delusionally believes that what he has to impart in the way of grandiose instruction of esoteric, paranoidly tinged subject matter somehow suffices as a curriculum with which to prepare his offspring for their future lives. The mix of perverse love kindled in a vacuum, prodigious amounts of alcohol and pharmaceuticals, and misguided efforts to promote and protect a precious sense of overweening self-importance in this truncated family of three inevitably detonates in Kelly Braffet's first novel in ways that never fail to surprise and astonish. Braffert has crafted an exhilarating narrative that speeds toward its explosive conclusion just as a car driven by an intoxicated madman might careen down the wrong direction of a six lane superhighway. To say the least, Josie And Jack is keenly observed, psychologically astute, and deadly accurate in its depiction of what will transpire when children are led to buy into the lie that they are so special they can function outside of natural law. Transgression as an expression of disdain for basic limits in interpersonal relations almost always ends in exquisite suffering and emotional chaos. With Kelly Braffet we encounter a master at delineating this splintered terrain of pain and ineluctable sorrow.terrain of pain and ineluctable sorrow.	2005-03-20
US	51317312	R3BMUVMBBJVW3F	1573222755	892958037	Symptomatic	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Experience Of Otherness	Ambiguity of identity and self-presentation colors the narrative thread of Danzy Senna's disturbing second novel, Symptomatic. The protagonist (and first-person narrator) of this highly readable, psychologically astute fiction is genetically/culturally Black but easily mistaken by others to be White. This disjuncture is highly problematic socially, or so we are led to believe. Although it would be easy enough to interpret the unnamed narrator's existential malaise as arising by virtue of the racial limbo she finds herself in, a deeper reading of the text suggests that the young woman at the center of this story of unfulfilled longing is misinterpreted by others precisely because she has never defined herself adequately beyond the issue of race. So even though race provides a screen upon which to assign blame for feelings of alienation and otherness, a basic, and more complete lack of self-understanding is what actually creates the undertow which wreaks havoc and confounds. Symptomatic lays out the structure of an illness of the soul in an individual who confuses the surface of a dilemma with its root cause. All the data for a proper diagnosis is contained in the keenly observed details of the experience of the narrator, but her conclusions are off the mark. Race is simply not always a sufficient explanation for forms of distress which beg larger questions not so facilely answered. Senna never directs the reader's attention to this level of comprehension of her protagonist's plight, but her skill as a writer fashions the subtext with exquisite subtlety and power. We feel for the nameless woman not because she is divided between the experience of being Black but seeming White. But because she is victim to the societally contrived convenience of going no further with her analysis of her situation. This failure constitutes both the tragedy of her life and the central developmental pivot of this novel. Ideally, I might have wished that the ending of the book took explicit notice of the task ahead for the narrator rather than wrapping up the story line with an action plot device. Nonetheless, this is a very well-written novel which reveals a voice I was unready to let go of as I turned the last page.cit notice of the task ahead for the narrator rather than wrapping up the story line with an action plot device. Nonetheless, this is a very well-written novel which reveals a voice I was unready to let go of as I turned the last page.	2005-02-13
US	51317312	RU9AYN5YMGIVP	0060548827	154942010	Chinese Takeout: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Channelling Bukowski	I am presently working my way through the fiction of Arthur Nersesian but chose to review Chinese Takeout having found it to be the most fully realized version of this author's conception of how unrecognized artists struggle to survive their art in downtown New York City. Nersesian, whose prose frequently reminds me of the late Charles Bukowski's best writing (Women, Post Office), devotes each novel to a different art form. The Unlubricated, for example, takes up the craft of stage production and acting while Dogrun's protagonist is an aspiring writer. Chinese Takeout is about a painter-sculptor and is marvelously evocative of the bohemian studio scene within which the book's 'hero' circulates while trying to scrape out a subsistence living. Nersesian himself is a very painterly writer whose febrile imagination provides an endlessly entertaining and poignant storyline. This aspect of his talent insistently propels one through the pages of Chinese Takeout but it is the undertow of the writing, the uncompromising exploration of love in all its most irrational manifestations, that distinguishes this writer and separates him out from the crowd. I rarely read a book which galvanizes me to seek out the entire literary output of an author but I was hardly finished with The Unlubricated before I secured copies of Nersesian's five other novels. They all investigate similar terrain but from distinct vantage points. They are each, in their own way, a joyous excursion into a sequestered world of youthful abandon.	2004-12-14
US	51317312	R23EHOQ8ROVJQG	0385337701	271773416	Reproduction is the Flaw of Love	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Female Author Contemplates Love From A Man's Point Of View	Reproduction Is The Flaw Of Love is a wonderfully ironic title for a novel precisely because reproduction is, in fact, the point of love. At least biologically speaking. But what draws couples together mostly defies facile categorization and it is the nuances of attraction (and the loss of interest in the beloved over time) that Lauren Grodstein understands so well. That Grodstein wrote this exegesis of lust and longing from the male perspective, and so convincingly, I found truly impressive. In particular, she does justice to the way men experience falling in love and the exquisite vulnerability they may feel once love has taken root. Structurally, the narrative of this cleverly written, entertaining novel has the feel of a series of interconnected short stories which revolve around a protagonist, Miller, who is seen coping with male-female issues at a number of stages of his life. Some segments work better than others but I always have trouble when authors try to accomplish a bit too much with their work. This minor criticism notwithstanding, I thoroughly enjoyed Reproduction Is The Flaw Of Love which I devoured greedily in just a few sittings. I hope that men especially get the opportunity to read it as this novel's honest portrayal of our way of responding to the throws of painful romance holds the promise of opening up a topic or two for much needed consideration.	2004-10-09
US	51317312	R14GQU97XT375N	1592400647	359994920	Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend	Books	5	35	39	N	N	A Compelling, Well-Written Narrative History	I am neither a Doors scholar nor have I read extensively in the literature devoted to the band's rise to prominence in the late nineteen-sixties and its subsequent demise. I did see the Doors perform once or twice. And I have screened Oliver Stone's film which, in my opinion, raised more questions about the iconic Jim Morrison than it answered. So, for the record, I came to Stephen Davis's sprawling biography of Morrison without a lot of prior knowledge and without expectations for a fresh take on its subject of inquiry. That said, I found Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend to be a cogent, well-written narrative history that kept me involved from first page to last. I was impressed not only with Davis's effective characterization of Morrison and The Doors, but with his panoramic evocation of the turbulent sixties which for me was the emotional highlight of this book. I am unable to comment on the accuracy of Davis's reporting but I can state unequivocally that by the time I finished reading I felt I had come to know Jim Morrison viscerally and to understand how his background, and the times he lived through, had shaped both his personality and his destiny. Jim Morrison: Life, Death, Legend reads like a novel and is hugely informative. For those who came of age during the late sixties, it will provide a nostalgically jarring recreation of a time categorically unlike any other before or after.	2004-07-26
US	51317312	RKU2M6FJC86JY	1400061741	840708426	The Unprofessionals: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Postmodern Ennui	The Unprofessionals is a wisp of a novel; more like a connected series of short stories than a unified, coherent narrative. Its author, Julie Hecht, is a keen observer of turn of the century suburbia in its most shallow and deadening incarnation. She also well understands the difficulties individuals who possess even a modicum of sensitivity may experience as they attempt to negotiate a postmodern landscape characterized by flat emotionality and a general sense of meaninglessness in human relations. The protagonist of this tale of woe, a woman approaching fifty years of age, describes herself as fundamentally lost. She spends her time in shopping malls and discount stores where she wanders aimlessly and nourishes a profound feeling of social alienation. Although she is a published photographer, this aspect of her identity seems mostly irrelevant in comparison to her overwhelming sense of ennui and purposelessness. She does have one compatriot, however. A boy at the end of adolescence who is addicted both to heroin and a discomfiting conviction that there is no point to life other than existence for its own sake. Significantly, although these two 'friends' communicate extensively throughout the book, it is never in person. The title of this cleverly written set of vignettes refers to specialists (especially psychotherapists who are for some obscure reason always psychiatrists and never psychologists or social workers) who fail to live up to their responsibilities and the expectations of their clients or set a proper standard for the critically important function they  serve in society. But one doubts there exists a form of assistance which could touch the desuetude and cynicism this disheartening duo seem tenaciously committed to. Which was my problem with the book. Although I am myself sympathetic to a nihilistic point of view, The Unprofessionals left little room for the possibility that either redemption or transformation might play a restorative role in the dysphoric lives of its characters. And without the possibility that these processes might at least be hovering in the vicinity of a downward spiral of fate, I for one lose interest in the outcome.oric lives of its characters. And without the possibility that these processes might at least be hovering in the vicinity of a downward spiral of fate, I for one lose interest in the outcome.	2003-12-29
US	51317312	R2V3EYSDILBT8G	0811815021	644365066	Vast and Ancient Wilderness	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Finding Solace In The Emptiness Of A Magical Landscape	I was browsing the book collection in Zion National Park's gift shop one morning when A Vast and Ancient Wilderness caught my eye several aisles from where I stood. The exquisite photograph on the cover of the book beckoned me like a magnet might draw a bit of metal to it. I had just the day before traversed all three hundred plus miles of central Nevada via \\"the loneliest road in America,\\" state route 50, and was thus newly acquainted with the seductive beauty of basin and range topography. Although my guide book had warned that the drive might seem endlessly monotonous to some, I had the sense that the desolation and emptiness to be encountered would provide a landscape of light, texture and color I would relish. I was correct in this assessment beyond my wildest imagining! Traveling in late November, I was consistently astonished by the beauty of the terrain as subtly variegated Earth tones of black, brown, dark green, ocher and gray accented by the pure white of snow-capped mountains passed before me hour after hour throughout the day. Reminiscent of a series of Rothko paintings seen in ever-changing light, the sun at first highlighted the inherent colors of the land and then rendered them in increasingly intense shades of yellow and red once day evanesced into night. Claude Fiddler's portfolio of images of the Great Basin (as it stretches beyond Nevada into Oregon, Utah and California) represents this remarkable corner of our planet righteously. As John Hart notes in his introduction to Fiddler's work, these \\"photographs find the textures and the colors where the unpracticed eye might register only vacancy. Spend some time with images like these, and you will never look at emptiness in quite the same way again.\\" In addition to the often sumptuous photography of a rich and varied emptiness, a lively essay by Steve Roper discusses early exploration by miners and trappers of this inhospitable desert to interesting effect.	2003-12-17
US	51317312	R2VZENO2NVQRMJ	1740594584	860363931	Lonely Planet Arizona	Books	3	29	29	N	N	Barely Adequate	I have a long, entirely satisfying history using Lonely Planet Guides when I travel so I was unhappy to find that the Arizona edition was less helpful than expected on a recent road trip through The Grand Canyon State. My reason for purchasing a travel book solely devoted to Arizona was related to my intention to explore the state thoroughly with an eye toward possible relocation. Hoping for a wealth of detail on places to stay and eat in addition to general descriptions of areas of interest, as I toured both city and countryside I was surprised by a paucity of detail on service establishments and a complete lack of differential analysis of the options on offer. For example, the village of Parker has several motels listed as being essentially equivalent in what they provide the overnight client. But a quick tour of two of the facilities turned up consequential differences between them! For instance, the rooms of the recommended Stardust Motel turned out to be in poor repair and unpleasantly aromatic as well. Further, described as having a pool the actual resource was more like a bird bath than a basin for swimming. Meanwhile, just up the road rooms at the lovely, well kept Kofa Inn (recommended co-equally with the Stardust) could be rented for just a few dollars more per night than the unappealing Stardust. At the end of a long day of driving it is distinctions like this that I expect to find available in the guide book I am relying upon rather than having to do the legwork myself upon arrival. These shortcomings in the text were unfortunately repeated at any number of other locales I visited on my trip. Although Lonely Planet Arizona does a fairly good job of orienting the prospective traveler to what the state has to offer by way of national parks and natural beauty (Sedona as a landscape as opposed to a human settlement is incomparably beautiful), its failure to assess comprehensively and distinguish effectively between the service establishments it recommends makes it only barely adequate as a travel guide.kes it only barely adequate as a travel guide.	2003-11-27
US	51317312	R1IB7UDY2BF23N	0743244702	51018390	A Walking Guide: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Contemplating The Final Transition	While reading Alan S. Cowell's deeply felt, exquisitely rendered first novel I found myself thinking repeatedly about literature that dominated a bygone era of existential discourse. Books by novelists such as Hemingway, Malcolm Lowry and, to a lesser extent, even the early work of the semi-surrealist writer Paul Bowles. I believe this association was occasioned by both the subject matter of A Walking Guide and its style of execution. As for the former, in this study of a daring, successful war correspondent at the end of his long career Cowell explores in contemporaneous narrative and action-filled flashback travel to exotic places, adventure deeply permeated by danger of a sort that pits the individual against inimical forces outside of his control (thus providing a test of just what one is made of), and the final travail of the male ego as it encounters and then is forced to confront the inroads of age and disability as they encroach upon youthful fantasies of omnipotence and immortality. Reinforcing the evocation of an erstwhile era, the writing itself seemed somewhat anachronistic stylistically, purposefully crafted in such a way as to revert the reader's sensibility to a simpler time than the one we currently inhabit; a time that precedes our post-modern age which is replete with technology and distraction from personal angst and the necessity to come to terms with inherent limitations of the self and, even more importantly, the body within which that self resides. Briefly, the plot of A Walking Guide concerns the desire of its protagonist, Joe Shelby, to provide himself with an outsized challenge on familiar terrain after having been diagnosed with motor neuron disease as he approaches fifty years of age. A tremendously virile individual up to this moment of his life, Joe is quickly losing the use of both his left arm and leg and has been told that the rest of his body will soon follow along a dreaded route of inevitable muscular failure.Terrified that he will be faced with immobility and dependence on others for subsistence, this proud, incredibly strong and willful man undertakes a final journey to relive the glory of the past. Of course, his decision to climb the highest peak in England alone, and in an already weakened state, places Joe in sufficient jeopardy to create 'passively' the conditions for a preemptive suicide so that he might avoid having to face the ultimate horror of being buried alive inside himself as his disease progresses. Cowell works systematically with a number of terribly difficult universal questions as his vulnerable protagonist struggles with destiny in a late summer freak snow storm on the mountain. Foremost amongst these questions are how exactly are we as sentient creatures to cope with the prospect of our own demise and, by extension, what is our responsibility (to ourselves and to others who figure significantly in our lives) for the form of our own death as we move along the inexorable trajectory to oblivion? Because the end of one's life requires that choices be made and actions taken no less than at any other point in a personal history. Not only as a way of shaping and finalizing a meaningful narrative of the self, but more critically, as a way of completing the crucial task of discharging one's final responsibilities to those whom we love.l be faced with immobility and dependence on others for subsistence, this proud, incredibly strong and willful man undertakes a final journey to relive the glory of the past. Of course, his decision to climb the highest peak in England alone, and in an already weakened state, places Joe in sufficient jeopardy to create 'passively' the conditions for a preemptive suicide so that he might avoid having to face the ultimate horror of being buried alive inside himself as his disease progresses. Cowell works systematically with a number of terribly difficult universal questions as his vulnerable protagonist struggles with destiny in a late summer freak snow storm on the mountain. Foremost amongst these questions are how exactly are we as sentient creatures to cope with the prospect of our own demise and, by extension, what is our responsibility (to ourselves and to others who figure significantly in our lives) for the form of our own death as we move along the inexorable trajectory to oblivion? Because the end of one's life requires that choices be made and actions taken no less than at any other point in a personal history. Not only as a way of shaping and finalizing a meaningful narrative of the self, but more critically, as a way of completing the crucial task of discharging one's final responsibilities to those whom we love.	2003-10-01
US	51317312	R1GLRIG010Y04X	0500284148	602240760	Designs on the Land: Exploring America from the Air	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Hugely Successful Synthesis	Alex S. MacLean is an architectural geologist with an impressionist's eye for composition and light. He is a pilot and a gifted photographer as well. The  consistently fascinating imagery he has created by fusing all these talents into a rigorous and aesthetically gorgeous body of work is on splendid display within the pages of Designs On The Land which ably demonstrates how uniquely important an aerial vertex is to a complete understanding of human interaction with the planet Earth. I recently drove thousands of miles through the high desert southwest and had a marvelous opportunity to appreciate that landscape from a mostly horizontal vertex. What a revelation to see the same tableaux from above! So much that is only hinted at at ground level reveals itself completely from above. The central thesis of Designs On The Land is that human transformation of the environment is among the most revealing indicators of man's developmental and evolutionary status. By extension, aerial views of the results of man's activities on the land provide a powerful tool for interpreting and understanding this interaction. As with any authentic synthesis, Designs On The Land functions on many levels simultaneously. Most significantly, the images presented in this critically important portfolio are simply beautiful and moving; both compositionally and as sophisticated studies in shadow, light and color. But aside from the captivating imagery, this volume contains a wealth of data that provide for informed consideration of land use protocols, environmental degradation and pollution, and the shifting utilization of land over time, to name but a few of topics taken up here. To quote from the introduction by James Corner, \\"What one sees from the air, then, are not merely attractive patterns and forms but great metabolic scaffoldings of material transformation, transmission, production and consumption. The country is an enormous working quarry, an operational network of exchange and mobility. To appreciate the essential character of the American landscape, it is first necessary to understand how its appearance is less an evolving expression than it is an activating agent of American ways of life and other material practices...The implicit subjectivity in the content of Alex MacLean's photographs reveals not only the strange working beauty of this busy, ongoing inhabiting of America, but also its potential for modern design and planning to create even more spectacular environments-this time for on the ground reception and effect as well as from the air.\\". To appreciate the essential character of the American landscape, it is first necessary to understand how its appearance is less an evolving expression than it is an activating agent of American ways of life and other material practices...The implicit subjectivity in the content of Alex MacLean's photographs reveals not only the strange working beauty of this busy, ongoing inhabiting of America, but also its potential for modern design and planning to create even more spectacular environments-this time for on the ground reception and effect as well as from the air.\\"	2003-06-23
US	51317312	R4G5WO916MLXC	0743222857	735708664	Rescuing Patty Hearst: Growing Up Sane in a Decade Gone Mad	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Subsuming Psychosis	Murder and the terror murderous fantasies evoke ripple through the pages of Rescuing Patty Hearst like a hungry shark moving through prey-laden water. And then there are the questions: How did it happen? Was anyone responsible? Me? Could it happen to me? Will it? Why was it allowed to go on for so long when what was occurring was so clearly damaging to children and to the family as a whole? Such concerns propel this investigation by Virginia Holman into her childhood nightmare which was reality. She is in need of some truth. Some emotional bedrock in a recondite landscape of mirage, denial and make believe. Although punctuated occasionally by a happy, or at least whimsical, memory Holman's story of surviving extreme maternal psychosis is disturbing and very unsettling. The writing is detailed but not dense, perhaps deceptively simple in structure and narrative flow. But effective. We feel the claustrophobia, the guilt, the hatred. The fear. We entertain the hope of being rescued right alongside Ms. Holman. We register viscerally the horror that mom has turned into a demon. And even though we know she is out of control and in desperate need of care taking herself, we come to the point of having had enough too. Holman and her younger sister were sacrificed to the demon/mom in order to avoid a family confrontation with truth and the resultant disruption that would ensue. In fact, Holman repeatedly begged her father to leave his wife and take her with him only to be told that mother would get custody of her children if he did. Sure. Although father is portrayed sympathetically in this account, it becomes difficult to stomach his willingness to accept the status quo year after year regardless of his wife's blatantly destructive, severely pathological behavior. Writing Rescuing Patty Hearst was surely an attempt to come to terms with this betrayal of his daughter's well being. As well as the entire debacle of growing up hostage to a parent's brutal inability to put a child's needs and best interests first. Surviving the ministrations of such an ill mother is an accomplishment in its own right but the process takes a heavy toll. Rescuing Patty Hearst provides a good deal of insight into how one survives, and what it takes to move on after enduring such a traumatic set of early experiences.d's needs and best interests first. Surviving the ministrations of such an ill mother is an accomplishment in its own right but the process takes a heavy toll. Rescuing Patty Hearst provides a good deal of insight into how one survives, and what it takes to move on after enduring such a traumatic set of early experiences.	2003-05-20
US	51317312	R2144RCZ1C4I17	1573222364	704849535	Good Morning Midnight: Life and Death in the Wild	Books	4	23	29	N	Y	The Motivational Status Of A Suicide	Chip Brown is an exceptionally gifted writer. His prose is fluid, inventive, full of literary allusion and smart. In Good Morning Midnight he has turned his attention to the planned suicide of Guy Waterman, a famous mountaineer and outdoorsman, who froze himself to death one desperately frigid night in February 2000 atop a mountain in the New Hampshire wilderness. Although the book is biographical in the sense that it explores Waterman's life in toto, the central preoccupation is most definitely the motivational matrix of the choice to die made by a sixty-seven year-old man who was in relatively good health for his age and who enjoyed a rich life well worth continuing with in the eyes of those who knew and loved him. Why does a person make the choice of death? Is it a legitimate choice? What life circumstances eventuate in such a choice? How does the choice affect surviving family and friends?  These are the questions Brown relentlessly wrestles with throughout his study. Along with the question of whether medical/psychiatric intervention would have made a difference in the final outcome. As a biography of a unique, multi-talented man Good Morning Midnight held my interest until the last page. I particularly liked Brown's attention to Waterman's two eldest sons who died (killed themselves?) in the Alaskan wilderness both before they were thirty years of age. The chapter devoted to middle son John Waterman, a famous climber in his own right, was absolutely riveting and marked the high point of the book in this reader's opinion. Brown posits that for Guy Waterman it was the loss of two of his three boys, and the remorse he felt about his role in their untimely demise, that ultimately drove him to consider his life not worth living. But there is so much speculation and hand wringing about motivation that after a while it became a chore to follow along with this layer of the text. I especially found Brown's concern with whether or not Waterman was clinically depressed and in need of treatment tiresome. Just because it is possible to 'treat' does not mean that we all must choose to be cured. Not everyone desires the intrusion of medical attention under all circumstances just because it is available. And not every bit of every individual's life need necessarily be understood down to every minute fragment of the psyche's intricate web of meaning and motivation. As Waterman's wife Laura wrote after the death of her husband, \\"Why rend the veil?\\" Amen! The idea that we must all live to the very last possible moment of our lives regardless of the quality of those lives is an overbearing injunction that has led to many of the problems of modern society, not the least of which is the all too pervasive, frequently gruesome hospitalization of death. Waterman led a full life and his death was thematically consonant with the overarching trajectory of that life. Although he made mistakes that came to haunt him in his later years, his choice to die at the moment he was ready to go seems a courageous act that  might well be respected on its own terms rather than dissected ad nauseum by those without the fortitude to recognize that we are each and every one of us heading for the same destination and that it is the act of taking responsibility for our final station in life that quintessentially defines who we are and what we are in fact really made of. Whatever his shortcomings, Guy Waterman was made of the stuff of legend. May he rest in peace.nd in need of treatment tiresome. Just because it is possible to 'treat' does not mean that we all must choose to be cured. Not everyone desires the intrusion of medical attention under all circumstances just because it is available. And not every bit of every individual's life need necessarily be understood down to every minute fragment of the psyche's intricate web of meaning and motivation. As Waterman's wife Laura wrote after the death of her husband, \\"Why rend the veil?\\" Amen! The idea that we must all live to the very last possible moment of our lives regardless of the quality of those lives is an overbearing injunction that has led to many of the problems of modern society, not the least of which is the all too pervasive, frequently gruesome hospitalization of death. Waterman led a full life and his death was thematically consonant with the overarching trajectory of that life. Although he made mistakes that came to haunt him in his later years, his choice to die at the moment he was ready to go seems a courageous act that  might well be respected on its own terms rather than dissected ad nauseum by those without the fortitude to recognize that we are each and every one of us heading for the same destination and that it is the act of taking responsibility for our final station in life that quintessentially defines who we are and what we are in fact really made of. Whatever his shortcomings, Guy Waterman was made of the stuff of legend. May he rest in peace.	2003-04-17
US	51317312	R1NJ8H3XYVUVDU	0810932873	360187381	Stone Houses: Colonial to Contemporary	Books	5	19	22	N	N	The Magic Of Stone	Stone Houses is a splendid survey which focuses exclusively on residential architecture in the USA. The book begins with several breathtaking photographs of historical sites in the Southwest where the Anasazi built beguiling settlements out of local stone over one thousand years ago. It then proceeds to document numerous stone structures of interest from colonial times right through to the present. Moreover, in addition to his commentary on the buildings presented within the pages of this beautifully realized volume, Lee Goff provides a thoughtful discussion of the qualities of stone itself which makes for such a superb, durable building material in the first instance as well as an inspirational source for imaginative residential design. To quote  briefly from the introduction: &quot;Stone has different moods. It can be warm or cold, protective or inhospitable. Before all else, however, stone evokes an image of power, strength, impregnability and endurance. Even more subliminally it conveys a sense of the primordial...Instinctively, we feel the millions of years ago the stones were formed. Thus, the materials of nature become the material of shelter, and the form the shelter takes in turn reflects the origin of the stone and the house's setting, connecting the dwelling and its inhabitants to the most permanent world of all-the natural world.&quot;<br />Stone was the first material used for shelter. It can be (and has been) assembled in any number of creative, aesthetically pleasing ways. Stone Houses takes us on a wondrous tour of many of the possibilities inherent to this medium of construction. &quot;Whether cottage or château, cabin or castle, stone houses embody feelings of romance and the picturesque. Their walls speak of  permanence and history; their stones give whispered accounts of their prehistoric creation. They are an ongoing part of what Tennyson referred to as 'the eternal landscape of the past.' &quot;	2003-01-21
US	51317312	R3J8CLWWSM7X4X	019513513X	938252520	The Emergence of Everything: How the World Became Complex	Books	4	16	21	N	N	A Text For Advanced Readers Only	The Emergence of Everything is a thoroughly researched, highly intelligent treatment of a fascinating subject. But this densely composed treatise is not for everyone. In my opinion, Dr. Morowitz's book would especially reward readers who already possess a solid background in the history and philosophy of science. Others may find themselves in over their heads. For those interested in this intriguing phenomenon who are looking for a more accessible introduction to the topic, I would recommend Steven Johnson's well-written, comprehensive 'Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities, and Software.'	2003-01-11
US	51317312	R2UOV23B65S3IO	037541102X	553953459	Larry Burrows: Vietnam	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Hallucinatory	Thirty years later, I am forever seeking gateways of memory that have the power to evoke what has come to be termed the Vietnam era. Oh, how this country has forgotten what it is like to actually live in the grip of phantasmagoric violence perpetrated on an ever-escalating scale. Larry Burrow's, Vietnam will take you back into the time, the landscape of battle, and the soul of the people destined to play it all out. You will weep turning the pages. I certainly did.	2002-11-02
US	51317312	R1CMC60MIY35ZI	0609608002	289510155	Start with NO...The Negotiating Tools that the Pros Don't Want You to Know	Books	3	31	40	N	Y	Advantage is The Motive Force	Start With No presents a well thought out and integrated series of psychological truths pertaining to the successful exercise of power in human relations. In this seminar-like presentation Jim Camp rightly emphasizes the central role emotional neediness and damaged self-esteem play in the faltering and/or out right failure of interactions of all conceivable forms: beginning with business negotiation and, by extrapolation, extending through intimate arrangements like friendship and marriage. Other astute psychological observations include the leverage gained when the other is allowed to feel more 'okay\\" than you. And the strategic efficacy of saying no as a way into an authentic mode of discourse.  All well and good. Unfortunately the writing, which is repetitive, lacking in detailed example (every example starts to sound like the same set of events after a few chapters), and way too conversational in this reader's opinion, does not do justice to the important themes under consideration. I would have liked to have seen the material, which is inherently so interesting in itself, given a far more rigorous and detailed treatment. By writing in a casual style more suited to live-action training seminars than a book, Mr. Camp missed an opportunity. His readers lose out as a result.	2002-10-05
US	51317312	R29TJNI9FXJTSK	1864503769	89361996	Southwest (Lonely Planet Southwest USA)	Books	5	23	28	N	Y	A Very Useful Guide!	I relied exclusively upon the 3rd edition of Southwest to guide me through a recent, quite extensive road trip of the high desert regions discussed in this exceptionally well-produced Lonely Planet publication. I had a wonderful, adventure-filled time of it in no small part due to the creative suggestions for travel routes offered in this volume. If a road was not on the maps printed in this edition, then it was impassable for all intents and purposes to non- 4-wheel drive traffic. And I found hotel, B & B, country inn, and youth hostel selections to be uniformly accurate and helpful throughout the book. Suggestions for restaurants were diverse, cost sensitive, and often inspired as well. I enjoyed many superb meals at very reasonable prices as a direct result of explicitly following the directions in the pages of Southwest.<br />One problem I had with this travel guide was what I came to consider insufficient differentiation of descriptions of historical sites. For example, Chaco Canyon, Canyon De Chelly, and Mesa Verde are all described at about the same superlative level by the authors. But I found Chaco disappointing, if for no other reason than there is little left of the architecture that once graced the arid, remote site. And the ENDLESS dirt road going in should have been re-graded years ago. The site is a pain to reach! For me, the best thing about Chaco was the movie narrated by Robert Redford (which was available for viewing at the Guest Center). But you would never get this from the book. Aside from this minor criticism, I cannot recommend Southwest too highly for those seeking the warm, friendly welcome and indescribable landscapes that come in abundance when touring this remarkable, magical region of the USA.	2002-06-22
US	51317312	R2P8JO2LB2IYXX	0300093616	399926124	Emmet Gowin: Changing the Earth	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Documenting Ruinous Relations With The Land	Like a great deal of aerial photography (Bradford Washburn's naturalistic mountain work immediately comes to mind in this connection), Emmet Gowin's meticulously detailed portfolio depicting man's ambition writ large upon the surface of our planet can often be 'read' as much as abstract art as documentary record. As art, this series of images of a wounded planet is so deceptively compelling it is easy to become lost in the sensuousness of the aesthetic moment Gowin repeatedly creates and forget that the subject matter being systematically explored is intrinsically disturbing and of concern. Indeed, the experience of finding so much beauty in landscapes of man-made desolation and ruin is unnerving. Yet it is undeniable that from a distance the patterns on the Earth made by irrigation pivots, toxic chemical ponds, missile burial trenches, mining pits, and numerous other manifestations of human 'development' without limits are endlessly unique and dramatic. Paradoxically, it is precisely this nexus of visually stimulating, geometrically intricate imagery generated in the context of wanton exploitation and destruction of the land that sustains the narrative and aesthetic power of Changing The Earth. One is absorbed in the beauty of the photography just long enough to catch sight and become painfully aware of the pervasive, intensely consequential, problem that demands attention and thought. Thus lessons for the future abound in the pages of this volume! One day our way of taking the Earth for granted by first depleting its resources for immediate gain and then dumping what is no longer wanted or useful wherever is convenient, will be seen as the opulent conceit and obscene luxury that it surely is. Until that day, studies like Changing The Earth bare witness to our collective folly, greed and irresponsibility.	2002-06-05
US	51317312	R12206Z00EDOKQ	3823803646	988599103	Karl Blossfeldt: The Alphabet of Plants (Masters of the Camera)	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Archetypes Of Form And Structure	Form is highly mimetic in nature. A limited number of what might be called prototypical patterns find their way into an infinite number of fomal structures. For example, it is apparent upon close inspection that branching patterns of trees (best seen in winter, of course) eerily resemble arterial branching patterns of the heart as revealed by cardiologic angiography. Despite divergent functionality of the two systems, the formal architecture is almost identical! This is no accident of nature, to be sure. Karl Blossfeldt: The Alphabet Of Plants is a survey of some basic forms in nature. Its premise, as articulated in an introductory essay by Gert Mattenklott, is that \\"the architectonics of the modern age are built upon archaic, elemental forces. The rationally calculated workings of machines is in secret correspondence with the eternal rythym of life, and the plant serves as the model.\\" Thus a careful, aesthetically mindful examination of the plant world is important in the first instance because it has the power to inform and expand our perceptual vocabulary. And, following on from that, to enhance our capacity for developing efficient, durable industry and for creating visually resonant art and architecture. Indeed, Blossfeldt was a sculptor by training and so the primacy and importance of form in his photography need hardly surprise us. What does surprise, however, in this eye-opening series of high contrast, texturally detailed duotone photographs (created some seventy to eighty years ago) of mostly quite unusual plant morphology, is the obvious correspondence of the geometry of plant life to so many of the constituitive and ornamental forms that make up the physical manifestations of modernity. There are only a limited number of (archetypal) patterns to be made use of, it seems, and their inventory is definable.	2002-04-02
US	51317312	R345HACXKKXS4	1891024264	630452663	Thomas Struth: The Dandelion Room	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Obscure Route To The Psychology Of The Sick-Bed	Entering The Dandelion Room is just the slightest bit like being on jungle safari. There is a wild, overgrown quality to Thomas Struth's photographs of flowering plants, a strong sense of obscenity at the heart of floral life at its most voluptuous. But intimations of perishability are absolutely implicit within visual fields that are so healthy and vibrant, you think you smell a redolent bouquet wafting off the reproductions. Counterpoised to the visual feast of floral imagery, Struth composes landscape tableaux that are sparse and unfulfilled, often of dormant agricultural settings which await human intercession were they to return to active production. Thus these almost empty country scenes hint at what might still be possible should benign intervention ensue. But they also speak cogently, perhaps nostalgically, to what has already been, indirectly suggesting a sentimental reminiscence of youth; of a happier, less complex time.<br />The Dandelion Room photographs were made in direct response to a commission to 'decorate' newly constructed patient rooms in a hospital just outside Zurich, Switzerland. Struth was given free reign for the project and decided upon a scheme to situate landscape art on the wall in front of thirty-seven separate sick-beds and floral portraiture on the wall above the head of each bed. Some care was given to combinations of floral and landscape art for each room and this work has been documented with interesting results at the back of the volume. It is useful to think about how the immediate environment influences a person's experience of their stay in hospital, it seems to me. Struth certainly takes seriously that his images will have an impact, and not an insignificant one at that! Lest why would he have gone to such lengths to produce a collection which is seemingly so simple in its subject matter yet so emotionally powerful and poignant in its lasting psychological effect?	2002-03-24
US	51317312	R7TLTUP2NVJ9B	3823854704	778775665	Andreas Gursky: Photographs from 1984 to the Present	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exploring The Limits Of Photographic Representationalism	Andreas Gursky: Photographs From 1984 To The Present offers a grand, hugely diverse collection of larger than life images which taken as a whole conveys a gently ironic commentary of modernity in all its disparate manifestations. Although profoundly concerned with the role (and fate!) of man in the dis-articulated social tableau created by late-stage hyper-capitalism, Gursky is not making judgments about what he observes. To Quote from one of three introductory essays, this one written by Marie Luise Syring, \\"Gursky's work...reflects both the art forms and the everyday aesthetics of 20th-century society without resorting to open polemics-his images display too much indifference and beauty.\\"<br />I was initially drawn to this series of photographs by the dust jacket illustration which is a somewhat unusual composition for Gursky, it turns out. I was touched immediately by the sparse, geometrically pleasing landscape running on endlessly in a striated banner of perfectly matched colour. There are several other 'naturalistic' studies included in this portfolio of 76 plates but most of the work examines the controlled chaos of urban settings, often featuring countless humans perambulating pointlessly in endless motion. \\"Being modern can also involve the danger of losing one's individuality and right to self-determination,\\" Marie Luise Syring reminds us.<br />Gursky works on the boundary between painting and art photography. He tests and retests the critical distinctions seemingly inherent to these two representational domains. Thus many, but not all, of Gursky's photographs seem to have an explicitly clinical orientation. He is probing a fragile boundary and we know it. The cold truth which emanates from a stark objectification of the subject matter which compels Gursky is however always balanced by the way in which he floods his overrun visual fields with light and riotous colour. That I might personally prefer the warmer emotional tones of his naturalistic work to the harsher elements of the cityscapes is of course hardly the point. All of his work makes you think! And sometimes gasp at the sheer excess of talent and technique which propels the creation of such intensely intelligent, beautiful art.e harsher elements of the cityscapes is of course hardly the point. All of his work makes you think! And sometimes gasp at the sheer excess of talent and technique which propels the creation of such intensely intelligent, beautiful art.	2002-03-14
US	51317312	RAA6053AP2P28	0826310044	199583195	Architecture Without Architects: A Short Introduction to Non-Pedigreed Architecture	Books	5	58	58	N	N	A Classic Presentation	Originally published in 1964, concurrent with the exhibition Architecture Without Architects shown at MOMA, this slim volume of text and photographs radiates heat and light when reviewed almost forty years later. In fact, Rudofsky's introductory essay is so fresh today it is almost inconceivable it was written the better part of four decades ago! Offering a scathing attack on modern approaches to the landscape and to problems of living more generally in a time of rampant population growth, Rudofsky shrewdly pointed to the fact that \\"part of our troubles results from the tendency to ascribe to architects-or, for that matter, to all specialists-excessive insight into problems of living when, in truth, most of them are concerned with problems of business and prestige.\\" But what transpires when the focus can be maintained on functionality, efficiency, ease of use, and a design aesthetic that remains humbly in tune with and loyal to the mood and visual imperative of the land under development? To answer these crucial questions Rudofsky takes us back a few thousands of years to the origins of architectural strivings (even preceding man's earliest efforts) and the material results thereof.<br />The essential point Rudofsky cares to make in these pages is that \\"vernacular architecture does not go through fashion cycles. It is nearly immutable, indeed, unimprovable, since it serves its purpose to perfection.\\" Rooted in a practical, harmonious relationship with its setting, 'primitive' architecture exemplifies the art of living well through its consistent use of frugality in construction, cleanliness in line and detail, and a general respect for \\"creation.\\" Further, its impetus is aligned with a human dimension fundamentally as opposed to an excessively hubristic predisposition to conquer nature at whatever cost. Finally, from Rudofsky's vantage, these principles are usefully to be understood as timeless guidelines for the future as well as descriptions of the past.<br />According to Rudofsky, sophisticated people seek rugged country where what is intrinsic holds sway. His search for the origins of a humanistic architecture was always in rugged terrain where people's lives must necessarily challenge the difficulties of topography and the vicissitudes of climate. His primary heuristic interest was in elucidating the solutions creatively and spontaneously generated by these people in order to make such rugged locales inhabitable AND livable. Architecture Without Architects demonstrates the way in which basic solutions to complex problems were developed historically and why those solutions are so important to remain cognisant of today.ording to Rudofsky, sophisticated people seek rugged country where what is intrinsic holds sway. His search for the origins of a humanistic architecture was always in rugged terrain where people's lives must necessarily challenge the difficulties of topography and the vicissitudes of climate. His primary heuristic interest was in elucidating the solutions creatively and spontaneously generated by these people in order to make such rugged locales inhabitable AND livable. Architecture Without Architects demonstrates the way in which basic solutions to complex problems were developed historically and why those solutions are so important to remain cognisant of today.	2002-03-11
US	51317312	R10CJOFWXZRZ0K	3933807263	120395916	Hamish Fulton: Walking Artist	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Peripatetic Ode To Exotic Landscapes	Hamish Fulton, the walking artist, is not a diarist. Far from it! Rather than being concerned with the facts of his adventures on foot through some of the most interesting and ruggedly beautiful landscapes on Earth, Fulton is instead preoccupied with a more rarified distillation of his RESPONSE to those landscapes and the act of traversing them. Thus the texts, wall paintings and photographs that have been included in this volume are better understood as fragments of experience represented iconographically in place of systematic description.and detailed observation. To quote Angela Vettese (who translated the text from German and contributed a brief, fascinating essay at the end of the book), &#34;Fulton's actual concern...is that eternal dilemma arising from the gulf between the fundamental loneliness of the individual, the incommunicability of what he experiences and the equally deep-rooted need to communicate his experiences and to share them with others.&#34; Out of the tension this dialectic inevitably imposes on us all comes Walking Artist; a superb presentation of one man's struggle to resolve the riddle artistically.<br /><br />Walking Artist is a unique, dare I say joyous, offering that is grounded photographically. Fulton is an exceptionally able photographer and as a collection of images, this volume will not disappoint. But he is also gifted with an ability to represent his perpetual (re-)discovery of the world about him more abstractly in drawing, painting and visually dramatic text. The combination of concrete photographic image coupled with these other media conveys tremendous creative energy. And creates a visual gestalt that really does have a way of taking you into this man's world as he wanders the globe in search of truth and light. And, perhaps most importantly, meaning. Hamish Fulton walks the land alone but brings us along after the fact so effectively that it is difficult to believe we were not in fact with him on his wondrous peregrinations.	2002-03-05
US	51317312	R1AIXEXFYJY6W6	3823854828	541166997	Tibet	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Landscape On A Vast, Vast Scale	With Tibet, teNeues has approached an apotheosis in landscape photography publishing. I know that may sound a tad overheated but really, you have to see this book to believe it. First off there is the unique format of the book which is nineteen inches lengthwise and nine inches wide. This design was selected to accommodate Poncar's panoramic images which each seem to encompass hundreds of miles of horizontal space. (Thus in numerous photographs several discrete weather systems are clearly visible!) Then there is the uncompromising quality of the paper, ink and binding. Everything about the feel of the book and the printing of text and Poncar's indescribably majestic photographs is outstanding. Thirdly, there are the photographs themselves. Another reviewer mentioned that Poncar seems to resonate on an intuitive level with the Tibetan Plateau. I would agree with that observation but perhaps go even further: Poncar seems to have become a part of this immense landscape, to have effortlessly merged with it. So that what we see represented on every page feels as if it existed timelessly, completely independent of point of view. But of course this vastness which seems to present itself so 'unselfconsciously' in the pages of Tibet does require interpretation. And we do indeed know that a genius has been at work by virtue of Poncar's unobtrusive yet highly effective organisation of these massive visual fields into compositions of great subtly and grace. And by virtue of his imaginative, highly skilled work with colour, contrast, and most especially, nuance. For despite the immense scale of the subject matter, it is the incredible detail in the 'texture' of the imagery as well as the nuance of its tone that ultimately is so impressive. Finally, there is the heart-felt, minimalist text by the photographer as he somewhat whimsically comments on his reproductions and a splendid introductory essay by John Keay who orients us to the geographical areas examined photographically in the pages to come. A wee bit of the written word offered as ballast perhaps in a volume that is so visually arresting, it hardly needs accompaniment.the pages to come. A wee bit of the written word offered as ballast perhaps in a volume that is so visually arresting, it hardly needs accompaniment.	2002-02-19
US	51317312	R3ULKM8D7TNK55	190339113X	568639890	Afghanistan	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Spectre Of An Ancient Time	In this exceptional volume Chris Steele-Perkins has distilled four separate travel adventures into an enormously effective photo-essay depicting Afghanistan at a time when the now ignominious Taliban were just taking hold of and consolidating their political power (c.1995). Although the book has as its focus unending war and the horrendous impact interminable armed conflict has had on the people of Afghanistan, what is remarkable in Steele-Perkin's work is how the daily pulse of ordinary life lived within a landscape of devastation and ruin manages consistently to emerge through the gloom. Because these wonderfully evocative images are indeed full of life! And full of the great beauty and mystery of the Afghan people. Two written essays (one by the photographer is a splendid travelogue) complement perfectly this accomplished portfolio of haunting images.	2001-12-12
US	51317312	R3FEAC2BXK3TV7	1851492682	990823439	Tribal Rugs: Treasures of the Black Tent	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Infinite Landscapes Woven From Wool	To begin with, Tribal Rugs: Treasures Of The Black Tent  is by design a comprehensive reference work. Dealers and collectors will be well-served by Brian W. MacDonald's exhaustive survey of the carpets of Central Asia. But as one spends time hypnotically absorbed in the patterns of the incredibly intricate weavings presented in these pages, and learns a bit about the tribal cultures of the people who created them, one sees that Tribal Rugs is also a profound portrait of a highly evolved art form. An art form that is not pursued in order to create art. But rather unselfconciously, in a utilitarian way. Because the weaving is always done for practical purposes, to meet the needs of the family as it travels from region to region throughout the year. Which makes the infinite patience and unstinting devotion to aesthetic ideal with which the work is accomplished that much more remarkable. My thought about these rugs, about their visual and emotional impact, is that each depicts a rarefied landscape of uncompromising beauty. A landscape that intrinsically possesses meaning and maybe even sacred qualities (many weavings are in fact uniquely configured as prayer rugs). To study carefully these landscapes reveals a world of otherness that endlessly fascinates, captivates, and ultimately challenges thoroughly perceptual complacency with salubrious result.	2001-10-20
US	51317312	R33DU70NQY9U7G	0738201286	974475677	Tales From The Underground: A Natural History Of Subterranean Life	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Superior Science Writing For The General Public	Dr. Wolfe has written a book which is at once absolutely fascinating and tremendously fun to read. It begins as a study of how life originally began on Earth (not on the surface of the planet, it now seems clear) and proceeds to examine a series of subteranean topics which although obscure perhaps to most land dwellers, affect us all in critically significant ways.<br />Wolfe develops his tour of subsurface life with both scientific rigor and a highly entertaining ability to relate the human dimension behind the discoveries reported within these pages. Thus, for example, we come to learn that Darwin spent his later years consumed with an interest in the 'lowly' earthworm. And we are informed of the way in which Carl Woese, labouring diligently for decades in isolation in a university laboratory, brilliantly worked out the details of his discovery of an entirely new domain of life. Which perforce led to a radical reformulation of our notion of how all life evolved from the most primitive (microscopic) organisms into the more highly developed forms with which we are all familiar today.<br />Tales From The Underground was compiled in the finest tradition of science writing made accessible and informative for a lay audience. And its subject matter is riveting and timely. Especially given how heavily we humans seem to tread on, and interfere with, the subtle development of organic processes that have taken billions of years to evolve on our planet Earth.	2001-09-05
US	51317312	R12E3226JSUXBO	0789305011	274861889	Mill: The History and Future of Naturally Powered Buildings	Books	4	12	12	N	N	It Could Have Been So Much More	David Larkin has undertaken a project of massive proportion with this volume and on the whole, the presentation is worthy of the attention of readers with an interest in grist mill technology, American vernacular architecture and historic preservation. That said, I was disappointed to some extent with this book which I felt was desperately in need of a competent editor and extensive rewriting.<br />Right from the start, in the introduction to the book, I was unhappily surprised by the text which often seemed to me to be confusing substantively and awkwardly constructed. To take one example: &quot;What was once a common occurrence is now rare, but a number of these stout buildings remain in what were strategic and active spots on stream banks and hillocks, some working, some with a new life as a home or office, some as picturesque ruins, and importantly, a growing number restored as plain country mills as interpretative museums--indicators of the growing interest in their history and technology with an eye perhaps toward their relevance as sustainable users of natural power.&quot; Although Mr. Larkin's writing improves as the book proceeds, I also found as I read through the text that many technical details pertaining to the actual working of the mills described in this volume were inadequately presented. So that it was difficult to follow these descriptions and come away with a clear understanding of the functioning of the mechanisms under discussion. Which was a pity given my desire to absorb and revel in this most intriguing subject matter!<br />On the positive side, the many splendid photographs contained in &quot;Mill--The History And Future Of Naturally Powered Buildings&quot; provide a wonderful introduction to the architecture of mill construction and a lovingly documented excursion into the rural landscape where these highly functional buildings operated, often for scores of years at a stretch. So it is for the visual presentation that I can strongly recommend this volume. Even though the book could have been so much more, it still offers a great deal to the reader with an interest in a world which is quickly disappearing from our view and, unfortunately to my mind, our consciousness.nd this volume. Even though the book could have been so much more, it still offers a great deal to the reader with an interest in a world which is quickly disappearing from our view and, unfortunately to my mind, our consciousness.	2001-09-03
US	51317312	R1HH7LXGCBWL0Z	970924101X	450576518	House of Los Cabos	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Architecture Of The Sublime	Houses Of Los Cabos is first and foremost a photographic examination of the architecture of magnificent dwellings in an intensely rugged and beautiful setting. But this wonderful book also provides a fascinating, well-integrated view in both image and text of the community and landscape which inspired the creation of those homes. So it is a comprehensive look at an exotic locale as much as an extraordinary study of the houses which were constructed to take maximum advantage of a remote aerie at land's end, Baja California. The book itself is uniformly of the highest caliber. Thus the printing, binding, design and presentation of the text and photography leave nothing to be desired. Each time one opens the covers and begins to turn the pages new delights await. But I would be remiss if I failed to emphasise in this review the sheer brilliance of the photographer, Rigoberto Moreno. Because it is his contribution which elevates a remarkable work to the level of the sublime. Which means that in addition to a superb volume which details the imaginative use of a supernal setting for house construction, we have as well a portfolio of photographs that are worthy of collection in their own right. Houses Of Los Cabos is a treasure that provides the reader with a feast for the eyes and the imagination. In my opinion, it is one of the finest recently published books to address cogently the development of architectural innovation at the end of the twentieth century.	2001-08-26
US	51317312	R2MNEQJQVGTC7Y	1580930719	323476066	Mirrors of Paradise: The Gardens of Fernando Caruncho	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A Study Of  Landscape As A Facet Of The Imagination	Mirrors of Paradise is a truly inspired presentation of a diverse sampling of Fernando Caruncho's architectural genius writ large on the landscape. A highly imaginative gardener by disposition, Caruncho possesses an idiosyncratic eye for wrinkles in the formal geometry of what is usually mundane. And the capacity to ingeniously comment on what he observes through design innovations which exhibit both wit and poignancy. To take but one example of this phenomena, in the Ollauri Garden which was designed in the mid nineteen-eighties, where a traditional water jet might be placed in the middle of numerous individual fountains making up a large flat reflecting pool, Caruncho plants single tall cypress trees in stone troughs. What a revelation this transformation of the ordinary creates! Such touches of imaginative whimsy permeate this man's work. But it is not caprice for its own sake. Every action is deliberate and conveys meaning. Every formal element tells a story. Mirrors Of Paradise is exceptionally well-designed, well-written, and contains a wealth of photographic images that do great justice to a man's work which is visually stunning, intellectually sophisticated and imaginatively pure.	2001-08-14
US	51317312	R4AB8E5EIAKVY	9748225151	402150643	Angkor Cities and Temples	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A Comprehensive History Of The Khmer Empire	Angkor Cities And Temples is perhaps one of the most beautiful books I have ever had the pleasure of owning. Everything about it beckons the reader to remain absorbed in its pages. The text by Claude Jacques is erudite, well-written, and very well translated. The photography by Michael Freeman is astonishingly good. Not only by virtue of his technical skills, which are considerable, but because he handles the art and architecture of the monuments with a tremendous sensitivity to detail and a glorious feel for the way in which light interacts dramatically with stone. Together, the flowing text and luminous colour images provide a wondrous exposure to an ancient world of great sophistication and profound aesthetic development.	2001-07-04
US	51317312	R3KCE2TJGB2OW7	0262731169	212737680	Invisible Gardens: The Search for Modernism in the American Landscape	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A Very Thorough Presentation	Invisible Gardens is a well-written, lively introduction to the confluence of landscape architecture and modernism during the middle decades of the twentieth century. Although somewhat like a textbook in its style of presentation, the writing throughout is clear, incisive and often quite absorbing. And there are plenty of black and white photos and architectural renderings which accompany the text to enhance its ability to inform. But only twelve colour plates were included in Invisible Gardens. I felt a bit let-down personally by this aspect of the project. I thought the book could have used additional high quality colour plates of the often spectacular commissions under review to balance the density of the text. And to convey visually what often needs to be seen to be properly appreciated.	2001-06-28
US	51317312	R2QKMLCYAB6QMI	0810941163	841764044	Architecture of Silence: Cistercian Abbeys of France	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A Higher Order Of Existence	Architecture of Silence is a finely wrought volume of exceptional interest and beauty. Its temporal actuality  immediately evokes the devotional themes which are contained within its pages. The book feels like a sacred text which was printed and bound by hand, out of love.<br />Cistercian cenobites understood that interior spaces were at least as significant and meaningful in the natural order of things as surface manifestations. They believed that divinity resides in places that cannot necessarily be seen or immediately sensed. Architecture Of Silence conveys splendidly the essence of this belief as expressed through the physical monuments they created in worship.	2001-06-16
US	51317312	R3MVL85EUH5ASI	0898867398	710569971	Nanda Devi: The Tragic Expedition	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Death Wish?	Although the 1976 Indo-American Nanda Devi expedition is a multi-faceted, intricate story to tell, the question of what will happen to Nanda Devi the person and when is without doubt the central preoccupation of this mournful, perplexed tale. For the reader knows at the outset that this vivacious, talented woman is doomed. It's just a question of how the end will come.<br />Roskelley is a climber by profession and certainly by personality. He is stoic, strong and perhaps most importantly, savagely goal-oriented. His narrative, while always competent, only truly comes alive once he is actually on the mountain. Thus the early chapters dutifully detail the planning stages of the expedition and the long trek to camp in The Sanctuary (an idyllic meadow at the base of the mountain). In these early pages the stress and tedium of getting a large expedition off the ground (so to speak) is vividly conveyed. And an inchoate if slightly ominous portrait of the individuals who will live and work so closely together begins to emerge as well. But although Roskelley is a keen observer and a bit of a psychologist by necessity, it is not difficult to see that his main interest lies in climbing mountains. And so the book picks up considerably as the team moves onto Nanda Devi the treacherous, if beguiling peak.<br />As the group of climbers makes the transition from the route in to the route up,  Roskelley's writing quickly generates an indelible mental image of the menace and extreme peril the team confronted on the mountain as they laboured week after week in deteriorating weather at ever higher altitude. Beset with among other adversities intense avalanche activity as monsoon conditions dumped countless feet of snow upon the mountain, Roskelley's descriptions of  painfully earned progress up the selected route and his successful summit bid are riveting. But all the while one is wondering, When will he fill us in? How does she die? Does she fall? Become suffocated in an avalanche of massive dimension? Or will she succumb to one of the numerous ailments she is suffering from as the physical cost of going higher becomes ever more severe?<br />Unnecessary death frequently engenders doubt, guilt and prolonged mourning in the survivors. And sometimes ghosts come to life as people die. Roskelley shares in the closing sections of his book his abiding sorrow over Nanda Devi Unsoeld's death and his sense of being haunted by the prematurity of her demise. He also wonders and worries about how it could possibly have been allowed to occur. This plangent accounting by a man of such emotional restraint brings the book to its rightful close. Because whatever else Roskelley attempted to accomplish in these pages, he clearly wanted to express his deep feeling about  what happened to this terribly young woman way at the top of the world.massive dimension? Or will she succumb to one of the numerous ailments she is suffering from as the physical cost of going higher becomes ever more severe?<br />Unnecessary death frequently engenders doubt, guilt and prolonged mourning in the survivors. And sometimes ghosts come to life as people die. Roskelley shares in the closing sections of his book his abiding sorrow over Nanda Devi Unsoeld's death and his sense of being haunted by the prematurity of her demise. He also wonders and worries about how it could possibly have been allowed to occur. This plangent accounting by a man of such emotional restraint brings the book to its rightful close. Because whatever else Roskelley attempted to accomplish in these pages, he clearly wanted to express his deep feeling about  what happened to this terribly young woman way at the top of the world.	2001-04-16
US	51317312	R3V3JSHOWFEZVR	0295979100	634040541	Glacier Ice: Revised Edition	Books	5	16	16	N	N	So You Want To Know More About Glaciers?	Glacier Ice is a comprehensive survey which is both well-written and extensively illustrated. It is easy to read, but mastery of its contents would take considerable time and effort. So it is suited to a broad range of audience. Even a beginner with an interest in the subject would be able to get a good deal out of this book. Because the writing is straightforward and assumes nothing about the reader's expertise. And because Glacier Ice contains many photographs which are specifically presented to illustrate topics being discussed in the text.<br />For those who have spent time walking glacial surfaces in a state of awe and wonder, this book will answer all the questions that kept arising as you moved about in that supernal world. And it will clarify in detail the terms that you have heard tossed about but which needed further definition in your mind. Like moraine, for example. Which is a deceptively simple concept, but  turns out to have tremendous explanatory power when it comes to the geophysics of landscape formation. In this regard, I had once been told that Long Island was a terminal moraine. Reading Glacier Ice rendered that nugget of information viable. I now have a picture in my mind's eye of just how the one-hundred mile-long land mass came into being.<br />One of the most visually dramatic surface features of glaciers is the multiple median moraines that form like layer cake when several ice flow tributaries converge into an ice field of gigantic proportion. Glacier Ice includes a number of photographs of this phenomena and an explanation for its occurrence. As with other aspects of glacier morphology taken up in this monograph, after a few moments time you can begin to picture vividly the way in which the forces at work between ice and rock would produce the effect you are studying.<br />One thing I particularly liked about Glacier Ice is that it was written with the mountain climber in mind. Thus descriptions of various glacier features are often accompanied by comments on the type of challenge the feature in question poses to the adventurer attempting to traverse it. This brought a topic of vastness down to human dimensions and I thought it a nice touch in what is essentially a textbook about the intersection of  the force of gravity as it meets up with frozen water and rock.mpanied by comments on the type of challenge the feature in question poses to the adventurer attempting to traverse it. This brought a topic of vastness down to human dimensions and I thought it a nice touch in what is essentially a textbook about the intersection of  the force of gravity as it meets up with frozen water and rock.	2001-03-25
US	51317312	R2YE4PFQEBMATI	0297835629	680527655	French Farmhouses and Cottages (Country Series)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Charming Look At Life In The Age Of Horses	Some photo-essays have a cinematic effect. You start to forget that you are leafing through the pages of a book and fall into a world that is at once unfamiliar yet somehow known. As the images pass by you keep hoping that the show will get even better and if you are lucky, sometimes it does.  As with French Farmhouses And Cottages which reads like a great movie and kept me surprised with its eccentricity and charm right to the last page. Cottages and out-buildings like these are each absolutely unique and all are situated in settings that epitomise the notion of living in creative harmony with your surroundings. If for no other reason than the structures are always built of the materials that comprise the land of occupancy.<br />The photo captions in French Farmhouses And Cottages are superb and highlight the type of construction in evidence, the purpose of each building economically in the life of the community, and the building materials that were used and why. A lengthy section of text which is entitled 'Introduction' would better be described as a comprehensive review of rural life in France during an era when the horse provided the defining reality for all economic activity in agricultural areas of the country. Extensive discussion in this well-written and highly informative essay focuses specifically on building practises on farm steads as well as planning strategies for setting up the working farm. Materials which were readily available for building and roofing are given consideration as well since local stone, clay and wood were utilised for French farmhouse construction as represented in this volume. But the setting for the creative labours which made use of those materials, rural France a hundred years ago, produced the inspiration. The synthesis of the two frequently defies imagination.	2001-03-21
US	51317312	R5HGPBM74297H	0789202158	714843393	Maya Color: The Painted Villages of Mesoamerica	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A Study Of The Meaning Of Color In Classic Maya Culture	Jeffrey Becom is a sensational photographer. The images which he offers in Maya Color are almost without exception a feast for the eyes. His talent runs in many directions and so we are presented here with an extraordinary portfolio of work which demonstrates a painterly feel for texture,  a highly trained sense of  unique and unusual composition, and most importantly, an appreciation for color that is second to none. Were I to try and attempt a comparison, I might liken his artistic sensibility to Rothko who, like Becom, was devoted to the representation and linear juxtaposition of bands of saturated hue in subtle and evocative combination.<br />By his own account, Becom's emphasis in Maya Color is on the painted wall. Thus he made the decision early in this project to restrict himself to documenting the use of color as an expression of architectural form  as opposed to presenting a more varied collection of images. So the Maya people and the landscape they inhabit are only of secondary interest in this study. At least photographically speaking.<br />The text, on the other hand, devotes considerable attention to what is left out of the selection of photographs. To my way of thinking, this choice was unfortunate. Particularly because the extensive descriptions are terribly over-written and what is being described could have been more easily conveyed by the image than the word. For example, there is a long piece in chapter one which describes a journey through the jungle to reach the ruins of Bonampak in the Mexican State of Chiapas. The writing here relies upon the use of countless adjectives in an ungainly attempt to convey and evoke the feeling of trudging through the fetid, overgrown,  swamp-like morass of vegetation. Why not, I wondered to myself, skip all the verbiage and include a choice shot or two of the terrain? Especially given the level of expertise of the photographer!<br />Sorry to say, this flaw in Maya Color is not insignificant because the space given to the written presentation is considerable. And that space could have been used to flesh out photographically the development of the important themes considered in this book! Like the Maya use of color to express systems of belief and meaning. And the way in which that use of color has provided continuity between the classic Maya culture of two thousand years ago and the life of the Maya descendents living in Mesoamerica today.<br />But let me say before closing that despite my reservations about this book, it is visually so robust that I can still recommend it with great enthusiasm to anyone with an interest in the use of color as an architectural form in its own right (see the work of Luis Barragan, a Mexican architect, for an example of this intriguing phenomenon of the systematic use of color as a formal element in building construction). Or with a desire to come in contact with the simple beauty of Maya cultural expression in both sacred and secular settings.en to the written presentation is considerable. And that space could have been used to flesh out photographically the development of the important themes considered in this book! Like the Maya use of color to express systems of belief and meaning. And the way in which that use of color has provided continuity between the classic Maya culture of two thousand years ago and the life of the Maya descendents living in Mesoamerica today.<br />But let me say before closing that despite my reservations about this book, it is visually so robust that I can still recommend it with great enthusiasm to anyone with an interest in the use of color as an architectural form in its own right (see the work of Luis Barragan, a Mexican architect, for an example of this intriguing phenomenon of the systematic use of color as a formal element in building construction). Or with a desire to come in contact with the simple beauty of Maya cultural expression in both sacred and secular settings.	2001-02-28
US	51317312	RWV06FBU3VOXF	0762404787	334277646	Irish Blessings: A Photographic Celebration	Books	4	45	45	N	Y	A Photo Collection Of Great Interest	I lived in London for two years a decade ago and so had the opportunity to travel extensively through the stunning countryside of England and Scotland. I never made it to Ireland however and so purchased Irish Blessings in order to have a good look at what I missed. TOO MUCH!<br />This collection of photographs was taken from a number of different sources. It is a lovely, well-assembled collection indeed and many of the plates are of a very high quality. All are of interest.<br />The book is broken up into three distinct parts with the first concentrating on the land itself. The second part, &quot;...Home And Hearth,&quot; includes numerous shots of both the interior of Irish dwellings and photographs of a diverse sampling of buildings, often in sumptuous settings. The final segment of Irish Blessings is devoted to means of travel about the country which includes photographs of boats by the sea, rivers, roads through the countryside, and the odd bicycle or two propped up against a wooden covered bridge or a village pub waiting to provide simple transport to their owners.<br />There are not many people represented in the collection but photographs of animals that are integral to Irish country life are ubiquitous . One photo of a dog lazily resting upon the back of a horse is devine. And a picture of a cow atop a wondrous stone wall abutting the sea offers a unique, special image.<br />The photographs in this portfolio are matched with Irish verse and song. That is a nice idea but I only wish that a bit of text which conveyed something about the locations depicted had been included as well. As it stands, there is no way to know where in Ireland each photograph was taken unless one was very familiar with the country beforehand. A small problem perhaps, in an offering of great beauty and spirit.	2001-02-21
US	51317312	R29ZIZBLLMKTY0	0374105804	506006678	Some Things That Stay	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	An Exceptionally Well-Written First Novel	Some Things That Stay is a novel that focuses mostly on all that is ephemeral about life. Thus the central metaphor of this work is embedded in the wanderings of a peripatetic family of five which relocates annually so as to accommodate the father who paints landscapes and is constantly in need of fresh subject matter and inspiration.<br />But as the children grow and the narrator of this subtle novel, fifteen year-old Tamara, reaches adolescence, the family finds it more difficult to pull up roots each year in an act of sacrifice to the needs of  just one of its members. To concretise the unarticulated stress to the family of the enforced yearly migration, Tamara's mother becomes seriously ill with tuberculosis which requires confinement to a sanitarium. Her insitutionalisation destabilizes an already shaky interpersonal situation in a family which had been successfully regimented and contained theretofore by the powerful, domineering personality of this capable, stong-willed woman. And so her removal provides the impetus for tremendous psychological change and development .<br />If the novel at one level is about how vulnerable people are to the vagaries of fate, it is also concerned with what is enduring in the lives of its characters. To quote the epigraph taken from Emily Dickenson's poem &quot;The Secret&quot;:  &quot;Some things that stay there be...Grief, hills, eternity...<br />It is grief in particular that the author seems to consider the most critical  factor in shaping our lives and creating the meaning that informs them. In this regard the house that Tamara's family rents during the time the novel chronicles was abandoned by a family after their teenage son dies of leukemia after a long illness. Having been about the same age as Tamara at the time of his death, it is not without consequence that she takes his room for her own after moving into the house.<br />The unfolding of Tamara's increasingly elaborate internal relationship with the dead boy, as well as her reaction to her mother's absence, mark the heart of this novel. There is A LOT going on inside of her and Sarah Willis has a deep understanding of what is at stake for Tamara during this incredibly painful, tumultuous period of her life. It is this profound grasp of what Tamara is experiencing, and the ability to write about it so convincingly, that makes Some Things That Stay such an emotionally realistic, moving work.well as her reaction to her mother's absence, mark the heart of this novel. There is A LOT going on inside of her and Sarah Willis has a deep understanding of what is at stake for Tamara during this incredibly painful, tumultuous period of her life. It is this profound grasp of what Tamara is experiencing, and the ability to write about it so convincingly, that makes Some Things That Stay such an emotionally realistic, moving work.	2001-02-12
US	51317312	R1ZXAT8IDCFRLK	0312202830	19279237	Breathing Water	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Where Love Sometimes Takes Us...	Breathing Water is a first novel of remarkable depth and sophistication. It is a compelling and ingenious story of a young woman who is in grave trouble. She has, for reasons that are incomprehensible to herself, fallen from a state of childhood grace into an adult world of pain, self-loathing and confusion. A world where good intentions are rewarded with hatred and a caring, loving gesture is reciprocated with violence. A world that presents NO opportunity for escape once it has been entered. Or so it seems to the protagonist, Effie, when we first meet her.<br />This slide from innocence is precipitated by Effie's becoming involved while away at school with a man who is badly damaged psychologically. A man who initially seems attentive, loving and sensitive but quickly reveals an abusive inability to love and a penchant for blaming his partner for this disability. Although the book is situated for the most part in the time after Effie leaves this man, their relationship is developed in a series of retrospective chapters. It is a devastating description of an aberrant attachment that is freighted with tremendous guilt and sorrow. And violence of murderous proportion. An attachment that can only lead in the end to tragedy, remorse and suffering.<br />But as the title suggests, it is possible in a certain sense to be actively, chronically drowning and yet not die. To get to the point where what seems like it would surely kill comes to be the very thing that is paradoxically sustaining. But at what cost? With what consequence? These are the questions that are intensively examined by T. Greenwood in this emotionally rich, bittersweet work of the heart.<br />Breathing Water is a study of loss and redemption. A study of the effect of death on those who survive. And finally, an examination of that terrible state of mind where death has a hold but has not yet conquered the body. It is the path toward freedom from death's premature grip that informs the narrative structure of this splendid, well-constructed tale of love and devotion.of this splendid, well-constructed tale of love and devotion.	2001-02-04
US	51317312	R3VQZJV0UXW19P	1576870731	591079515	Yes Rasta	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Dreadlocks, Cultural Roots, And The Healing Of The Nations	I visited Jamaica many times in the fifteen years following my first Negril holiday in 1977. I was in search of Rastafarianism and reggae music. Of the natural mystic blowing through the air.<br />My first morning in Negril I left my tourist hotel for a walk along the beach toward town. After a while of walking on the white sand and enjoying the glorious sunrise, I noticed two dread-locked men standing off to the side smoking a spliff and gazing out to sea. They were more like an apparition than flesh and blood but then they saw me staring. Smiles of incredible radiance slowly spread out upon their faces as they turned toward me and they nodded graciously. I felt their blessing like a wave of force across the beach. They had such tremendous presence, those two men. Such an aura of power.<br />Patrick Cariou's homage to Rastafarianism takes this mesmeric presence of the Rastaman as the focus for his deeply moving, sensationally well-executed portfolio of black and white photographs of Jamaica and of its Rasta Nation. The portraits of these men of all ages are among the best I have ever seen. Partly this results from the great technical skill Cariou brings to his work. But clearly the strength of this collection is in the way the subjects felt about their photographer. The way in which they responded to his lens emotionally.<br />There is one photograph of an elderly Rasta with matted locks down to the ground that is so remarkable. He stands for his portrait with his pancake-flattened dreadlock over one shoulder extending right to his feet in a sumptuous arc. His arms are extended at his sides and his stance suggests submission to fate, his attitude such a natural state of grace. But what makes this image so unforgettable is the communication you can feel between this man and his photographer. His willingness to open himself emotionally for his portrait. The unconditionality of his pose.<br />Aside from portraits of individuals, there are also numerous photographs of adult men with their children in this gorgeous collection. Of men working in their ganja fields, preparing ital for their meals, smoking the bounty of the marijuana harvest.<br />And there are photographs of Jamaica itself that capture just amazingly the dramatic mood of the mountains and of the thick, jungle-like vegetation that there abounds. And of the dwellings in which these people live and worship.<br />In the few inspired pages of text at the beginning of this book Perry Henzell captures the paradox of the Rasta people when he says that 'they projected the humility of the social outcast but bore the high stride of a visionary on the move...&quot; Yes Rasta understands this essential paradox well and visually transmits a view of life informed by it with tremendous sensitivity and respect. I could not imagine a better resultadult men with their children in this gorgeous collection. Of men working in their ganja fields, preparing ital for their meals, smoking the bounty of the marijuana harvest. <br />And there are photographs of Jamaica itself that capture just amazingly the dramatic mood of the mountains and of the thick, jungle-like vegetation that there abounds. And of the dwellings in which these people live and worship.<br />In the few inspired pages of text at the beginning of this book Perry Henzell captures the paradox of the Rasta people when he says that 'they projected the humility of the social outcast but bore the high stride of a visionary on the move...&quot; Yes Rasta understands this essential paradox well and visually transmits a view of life informed by it with tremendous sensitivity and respect. I could not imagine a better result	2001-02-01
US	51317312	R3UUO6V2RLP4MJ	1576870405	984582047	Surfers	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Portraits Of Men Who Live Their Lives By The Sea	When I first leafed through the pages of this collection, I was struck by the numerous photographs of beautifully aging men. Upon further inspection it became clear that other subjects are well represented. But I would have to say that for me, the true impact of this book is in its portraiture of strong, active, sun-baked men of advancing years. Men whose bearing and visage evince a serene vitality as well as a timeless understanding of fate.<br />This is of course a book about surfing and there are a number of wonderful photographs that well capture the spirit, peril and exhilaration of the sport. And a bit of text at the beginning of the book does address itself to surfing history and culture. But it is the portraits of the rugged and weathered people who live their lives by the sea that makes this such a compelling collection.<br />Surfers is a wonderfully understated portfolio of mostly black and white photographs of individuals who are persuing their dreams in an unconventional yet highly inspired fashion. Cariou, a gifted master of his craft, captures the freedom and joy inherent to their journey brilliantly. His work deserves a much wider audience than just those with an abiding interest in surfing.	2001-01-26
US	51317312	R130N55B4ZFGQF	0892814543	694060591	Sadhus: India's Mystic Holy Men	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	An Unassuming Study Of Human Devotion	The men (and very occasionally women) portrayed in this inconspicuous volume are compelling in the extreme. It is only necessary to gaze at their faces and ash-dusted bodies to fully appreciate the gift of this work. But the author/photographer offers so much more.<br />As a study in psychology in extremis, the wealth of behavioral detail and description is satisfying. And the diverse, often incredibly imaginative, rituals of self-abnegation are conveyed with tremedous sensitivty and scrupulous balance.<br />The text is dense, and possibly impenetrable in places. It is academic in its emphasis on getting every possible relevant detail down. So one is met with an avalanche of esoterica upon delving in.<br />Perhaps the writing assumes a bit of knowlege and sophistication in Eastern ways? But it really doesn't matter anyway. Somehow a sense of what is important filters through after a while. And the photo captions are well-written and fascinating.<br />This is a picture of a society of devotees who have given it ALL up in order to stay exquisitely near to the timeless, pitiless cycle of death and regeneration that powers all life. The book itself is clearly an act of devotion to that extaordinay commitment.	2001-01-11
US	51317312	R2ERUZNLS4ZQ17	060960466X	887487616	Living Planet: Preserving Edens of the Earth	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	This Book Is A Celebration!	It would be difficult indeed to over-estimate the sheer beauty of the photographs printed on the pages of Living Planet. Of course the three photographers were off to a great start as the subject matter they are presenting is riveting. There are so many truly exotic (and still unspoiled) locales explored here. And so many diverse, truly impressive plant and animal forms documented.<br />But these three gifted photographers are superbly inspired practioners and so they are able to elevate the naturally exalted to an entirely new level of organisation. This is accomplished specifically, at least in part, by the use of super-saturated color in combination with consistently fresh and geometrically complex composition. The results, printed with great care by Crown Publishers, are extraordinary!<br />The photography is so visually stunning that it is easy to forget the purpose of this book which was published by the World Wildlide Fund. Thus the text, which is teeming with information, emphasises not the beauty of what has been captured on film. Rather it focuses on the steadily progressing ecological nightmare as humans-induced species extinction of animal and plant life proceeds around the globe in an unchecked and relentless manner. To quote briefly from the introduction by Walter Cronkite, &quot;Earth is losing one-hundred species of animals, plants, insects and fungi every day. Experts estimate that the world has lost one-third of its biological wealth over the last thirty years.&quot; Astonishing facts the sobriety of which contrasts mightily with the visual celebration of life as depicted in this wonderfully elegant volume.	2000-12-28
US	51317312	R2AC91K4JNHS1Y	1578050111	334145739	The Great Bear Rainforest: Canada's Forgotten Coast	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A Unique Journey AND A Desperate Plea	This book is written as a journal of a sailing voyage. Although the authors had previously visited the remarkable areas they photograph and describe six times before, the seventh visit is chronicled in these pages. Thus there is a great depth of knowledge and experience inherent to this work which transforms a simple if elegant journal into a powerful, somewhat doleful, environmental monograph.<br />This is a beautifully done book with many fascinating photographs of rainforest topography and the diverse life forms which abide therein. The accompanying text is well-written and consistently informative and interesting. But the overarching theme here is that pristine environments which are critical to the survival of untold species of flora and fauna are in jeopardy. Grave jeopardy. Moreover, the McAllisters take great pains to point out that the small islands of preserved and protected ecosystem created in compromise between commercial interests and environmentalists are insufficent to protect wildlife (bears, for example) that depend upon an interlinked vastness of unspoiled terrain in which to flourish.<br />So this book is as much an alarm and a plea for action as it is a wondrous presentation of its picturesque subject matter. As such, it is urgent reading for those of us concerned about the ravages unleashed when a society values short-term economic advantage (as when untouched river valleys are clear-cut by logging companies) over the work nature takes eons to complete.	2000-12-26
US	51317312	RY268C7G941NS	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A Somber Examination of the Downward Leg of Life's Journey	I have had to wait several weeks after reading this book to write a review, so powerful was its effect upon me. The sheer force of Coetze's writing is simply overwhelming.<br />My first encounter with this author occured when I read &quot;Waiting For The Barbarians&quot; while travelling in Peru in late 1982. Also a study of an aging man in an unforgiving life circumstance (who is also living in a country with a deteriorating social and political climate), that novel relied upon a vaguely surrealistic narrative structure to set the tone. It was perfect reading for travel in Peru at that time as the country itself was undergoing its own phantasmagoric transformation due to the social distress brougt on by the onset of escalating terrorist activity throughout the Sierra.<br />&quot;Disgrace&quot; however is flat out realism at its most devestating. The last few pages in particular will stay with me for the rest of my life. Here Coetze evokes the death chamber of a canine extermination unit with a focus not only on the experience of the humans adminisitering the lethal injection over and over again to untold numbers of unwanted animals, but also on the animal's anticipatory awarness of its fate. This writing is thanatological poetry which articulates as its first priority the role of acceptance in life and what consequences ensue when acceptance is absent or pathologically expressed.<br />Coetze is an observer of tremendous range. But his keenest insight is into the experience of failing and ultimately failure. Into the indignity and shame that adhere to failure and are attributed to it. And by extension, into the abjection that accompanies the process of final failure, death.	2000-12-15
US	51317312	R1KM0BWC8YMCFV	0898865883	246277251	Thin Air: Encounters in the Himalayas	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	A Study In High Altitude Apprenticeship	This is a superb set of essays which describes the transfiguration of a gifted technical rock climber into a high- altitude mountaineer. In addition, it is a well-written, absorbing chronicle of high adventure in one of the most spectacular regions on earth (replete with dozens of stunning photographs).<br />For me, the chapters on Broad Peak in the Karakoram were the highlight of this collection . Child describes the geography, people and culture of Pakistan as well as the logistics of the expedition with such clarity and force that it is not hard to begin imagining you are there with him before too long.<br />But it is his deep respect for all the people he encounters and climbs with that makes this narrative so rich and special. In this regard readers will be moved indeed when Child looses his friend and climbing partner Peter Thexton to pulmonary edema after turning back from the summit on Broad Peak (without getting quite to the top). This tragedy is related with such pathos and power. And it makes Child reconsider the entire enterprise to which he has devoted his life, a process that one rarely reads about in the writings of high altitude mountaineers who so often maintain a stoic attitude reflexively. One's life, Child ultimately decides, takes precedence over the conquest of 8,000 meter peaks; no matter how compelling and significant such a goal may seem.	2000-11-17
US	51317312	R353KNSC3JGLIF	1558217266	220928508	In the Shadow of Denali: Life and Death on Alaska's Mt. McKinley	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	A Finely Wrought Meditation on Death	This wonderful collection of essays explores the territory right at the perimeter of death's door. Whether by freezing, freefall, animal mauling, or altitude sickness, Waterman's heros are faced with the terror of death's domain in circumstances too extreme to admit to external melioration. These individuals are on their own as they project themselves directly into harm's way and we bear witness through the evocative writing to Waterman's total preoccupation with life lived at the edge of anihilation.<br />The narrative as story telling is mostly compelling but the point of the book is not to convey an action line but rather to ponder the limits at which the human organism functions in uninhabitable conditions.<br />At first, when Watermen is very young and sassy, he gets away with flaunting the possibility of death as he undertakes feats that beg for physical retribution . But when he matures and sets his sights on Alaska's rugged mountain terrain, he allows the forces of nature to rub reality into his every pore until he realises he has tempted fate beyond his own capacity to process the consequences.<br />Waterman is a phenomenolgist of death. He is also a keen observer and a talented reporter with the integrity, passion and grit to inform those interested in that domain with great cogency and wit. I found myself grateful for the opportunity to immerse myself in this world of extreme psychological states and to share via Waterman's writing in the elation, or more acurately perhaps, the ecstasy of survival in the very heart of the abyss.	2000-10-12
US	51317312	RIYKKBVUCFKYA	0060977078	724083018	Book of Jamaica	Books	5	33	35	N	N	One of Russell Bank's very best efforts!	The plot of this early Bank's novel revolves around a vacation to the  seductive island of Jamaica by a college professor and his wife. They rent  a home with patio and swimming pool on the outskirts of Port Antonio.  Servants come on each day to cook and clean. The couple is protected from  the turbulence of the island's cultural and political life by a fence made  of both wire and social class (not to mention race). But the professor, the  narrator of this tale, soon finds himself enjoying the company of the  locals; in particular a young Rastafarian who has plenty of powerful  Jamaican ganja he is very willing to share. Sure enough, before too much  time has elapsed, the professor is smoking all the day long and providing  transportation in his rental car to a small group of Marroons and Rastas  that stay locally for short periods of time but live up in the mountains  where they have their marijuana fields and live in villages with their  families.<br />There are several trips back to the island after the narrator's  life is completely transformed by his experiences during the first. His  wife no longer accompanies him however as their marraige was one of the  first casualities of his abrupt new fascination with Rastfarianism, Marroon  culture, and ganja. You can imagine! But what starts out as an adventure  full of promise, unfortunately follows an inevitable course ending in  sorrow and not a little horror. Any attempt to blithely transcend  differences of race and class are doomed, the author seems to be saying.  And ganja will not of its own power make a story turn out all right,  regardless of it's enormous capacity to create an internal state that seems  to be mystically protected from all outward harm. In fact the opposite may  be true. Ganja may release traits and fuel decisions that create a trend  which rushes towards confrontation with dis-associated, unwanted  self-aspects and a pressing need to re-assess one's relationship with the  basics of self-preservation and the will to continue living.<br />This is a  compelling, well-written novel that has the advantage of having marijuana  as one of its central characters. The role marijuana plays in the story and  in fueling the psychological development of the protaganist is handled  skillfully and raises interesting questions about what effect heavy use may  have on the trajectory of one's life. As a Jamaican travelogue, the book  will spellbind as it is really a tour de force of gritty observational  writing. Banks obviously harbours a deep love for Jamaica and a well-earned  respect for the raw power of Jah Rastafari as expereinced through the  taking of his sacremental offering; the holy herb ganja.eservation and the will to continue living. <br />This is a  compelling, well-written novel that has the advantage of having marijuana  as one of its central characters. The role marijuana plays in the story and  in fueling the psychological development of the protaganist is handled  skillfully and raises interesting questions about what effect heavy use may  have on the trajectory of one's life. As a Jamaican travelogue, the book  will spellbind as it is really a tour de force of gritty observational  writing. Banks obviously harbours a deep love for Jamaica and a well-earned  respect for the raw power of Jah Rastafari as expereinced through the  taking of his sacremental offering; the holy herb ganja.	2000-08-30
US	51317312	R1EF2G5OCRG3PO	0679751149	933185835	Dancing After Hours: Stories	Books	5	21	23	N	N	This book explores physical decline in all it's myriad aspects	If you want to know what it would be like to lose the use of your legs, read this book.<br />In a sparse, Faulknerian style Dubus evokes an emotional landscape that has been violated by pyhsical injury or tainted by advancing age and the inevitable degradation of the body that comes in its wake.<br />Although not every story has at its focus this troubling theme, the  penumbra of death and disfiguration permeates the collection.<br />For Dubus,  the transition beyond youth and physical splendor is accompanied primarily  by a nostalgic longing for past pleasures which are understood as being now  out of reach. But the book ultimately rinses through you with a power that  leaves you meditating, as the author once did, about the realities that  must be faced by all of us for the simple fact that we inhabit bodies that  have a trajectory which sooner lr later commands our full attention.	1999-03-10
