US	51318728	R3B6YI72DDNBHS	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	2	88	105	N	N	Did not live up to the hype	I was prepared to love this book based upon the recommendations of several friends. Alas, I seem to be in the minority, but I did not find this book a compelling read for several reasons. The chief problem I encountered was that as a mother, I was disturbed by the relationship of young Clare and adult Henry. Over the years, he regularly pops up naked in her yard and assuages her fear by telling her he is her future husband. This behavior is a little too close to that of a sophisticated pedophile for me to ever find it amusing, cute or romantic.<br /><br />My second problem is that the book is both too long and too short. It is too long in that I felt the ending with the negative problems Henry undergoes with his health were merely melodrama for the sake of melodrama. It is too short in that I never felt that I knew Henry or Clare well at all.<br /><br />The sexuality was never more, IMO, than standard tab-in-slot sex -- I never really felt any love between them in the sex scenes.<br /><br />Even though I am a long-time time-travel lover, I never quite understood the nuances of when  Henry could affect the present/past and when he could not. Frankly, it often seemed to me that Henry was creating self-fulfilling prophecies that worked to his benefit. For example, by telling Clare that he was her future husband, he effectively ensured that she would not seriously date anyone else, thereby leaving the field clear for him in the future. And the author's choice of having Clare's one high school date turn into a battering seemed like an excessively hurtful way to teach Clare a lesson -- that she should wait for Henry. Another example was his telling her that they would meet again in her old age, no doubt effectively negating any notion of moving on to another man.<br /><br />In the end, I was perplexed about WHY Clare kept waiting for Henry -- he didn't seem worth waiting for. And finally, I disliked the author's occasional use of trashy language, which was unnecessary.ecessary.	2005-08-02
US	51318728	R2YNK7ZQWH6HN4	0758205856	44760340	Bad Boys Down Under (Bad Boys Series)	Books	2	7	8	N	Y	Glad I only paid $1.50 for it	Of the three stories, the least likable is unfortunately the first. The `hero' in that story is a self-made millionaire who invites the engaged `heroine' to his company to create a marketing plan. Without telling her, he ensconces her in his home instead of a hotel and meets her there, reclining naked in a hot tub. He then proceeds to flash her to get out of the hot tub. Lovely. Knowing she is engaged, he nonetheless then decides to seduce her to show her who is boss. Also lovely. Then they somehow `fall in love' (that is, fall in lust) and she succumbs - only after removing her engagement ring in the bathroom. She justifies her actions by saying she couldn't possibly feel so attracted to Mr. Flasher if she was truly in love with her fiance. So great -- good to go and let's hit the sheets now that we've justified it. She then proceeds to screw the guy like a bunny the entire remaining time of her trip, with a small lull in the festivities to break up with her fianc over the phone. When the fianc asks Miss Sensitive why she couldn't wait until she came home to do this in person, her response was that she wanted to have a nice final week with her screw mate and couldn't if she was feeling guilty over being still technically engaged. What a shame! Boo hoo to her. I certainly prefer characters to feel `real' as opposed to perfect gods and goddesses, but these two characters are the type I wouldn't want to have dinner with, let alone leave my spouse alone with. <br /> <br />The second story involving the model the first heroine found in Australia and sent back to the States for `grooming' is much better. The third, involving the jilted fianc and the first hero's sister is totally implausible.	2005-05-23
US	51318728	RNMIL2LYUV4VB	0060549270	851093114	A Greek God at the Ladies' Club	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Predictable	I always look for books that involve Greek and Roman gods/goddesses and was anticipating  this book as a light read. Well, it was a heavy book in that it kept falling to the bottom of my reading pile, buried under other, more worthwhile books. I would start and read a few pages, put it away and forget about it, then looking for something to read, find it and start again. The female heroine never came alive to me at all. We never learned enough of her psychological or emotional backstory to make her current behavior interesting.  It was patently obvious early on who the missing father was going to be and that subplot added nothing the story esp when the sisters accept their father's failure to identify himself with no more than a shrug.  The sections on Mt. Olympus were almost painfully trite, e.g. Zeus controls the weather with a computer.  In the end, it was just not a very interesting book and I finished it only because I had grabbed it to read while on a plane trip.	2004-07-12
US	51318728	R30XT8NA987SVS	0821767240	241236721	An Unwilling Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	52	76	N	N	If I could give it zero stars, I would	I absolutely abhor and despise, with every fiber of my soul,  so-called \\"romance\\" books which employ domestic violence as a plot device. No -- let's call it what it is -- wife beating.  Authors and editors: violence against women is NEVER acceptable in a romance book.  A male character who hits a woman across her face in one scene and squeezes her neck in another is not a romantic hero -- he is an abuser. If he did it once, he will do it again and again and again. I have worked with abused women and I have heard, \\"But he did it because he really loves me and gets jealous,\\" \\"he said he was sorry,\\" \\"he said he was really upset,\\" until I want to scream and along comes a book that reads like a victim's handbook for continuing violence. Just what victims need -- outside justification of their abuser's rationalizations.<br />Moreover, this book follows An Arranged Marriage, in which that male lead, Nicholas Delaney, is reported by servants to have hit a former lover.  Jo Beverley -- you have issues that need resolution. Stop writing abuse scenes -- they are not romantic and they are not responsible. Editors -- show some integrity before publishing tripe that justifies abuse.  I thought we had gotten past the rape=overwhelming passion instead of rape=violence mode decades ago.	2002-06-25
US	51318728	R1H83O80WGRZW7	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	36	39	N	N	The same book over and over and over	I won't describe the plot since others have done that well. Rather I have a question:<BR>Is it just me or is it true that every Cynster male in every Cynster book (with the exception of Scandal's Bride) is exactly the same man? Moreover, the tension in every relationship in these books revolves around the man's refusal to say \\"I love you\\" and the woman's refusal to marry until he does so. And then of course there is the requisite attempted or actual murder or some mystery to solve. <BR>By the time I read this book, I felt like saying Enough already! Come up with a new problem for the men or make the woman fearful of saying the words or...well, something, anything...this is getting really boring!\\"  If I had not read the previous books, I would have enjoyed this book more, but since it is one in a long series, the lack of diversity in male character development was glaring. <BR>Moreover, I never felt that we \\"knew\\" Amanda  her entire goal from beginning to end was to marry a man just like her male cousins  this does not suffice for an entire character in a book of this length.  Her ability to mislead her parents, or rather the lack of parental involvement in her life, seems a little unlikely in this time period.  The couple's ability to find empty rooms for sex or to slip away to Martin's home for sexual assignations also seemed unbelievable.  The scene I found most  hard to believe was the swing scene in someone's conservatory while Amanda's male cousins guarded the room from the outside. If they are SO protective, why are they not only complacent about her premarital sexual escapades, but actually assist in the assignations? ( I just did not buy the argument that they did so to further Martin's courtship, for crying out loud just tell the guy he needs to say \\"I love you.\\".) Please, Ms. Laurens, devise some new male characters.	2002-05-29
US	51318728	R2LOARKV5ZWU73	038081479X	969944777	Heart of a Warrior (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	It really irritated me.	This book really irritated me.  Here's why:<BR>1. Way TOO much expository explantion instead of dialogue. I don't count computer Martha's pages of monologue as dialogue -- it just serves to set the stage, explain the culture into which Brittany, the heroine, is involuntarily placed. If the author cannot tell the story without pages and pages of exposition, then there is a problem with the story. Description does not equal story. <BR>2. Although I had read the original book, with Dalden's parents' Tedra and Challen, I can imagine that even with all the explanations, it would be tough going. <BR>3. Brittany refuses to believe that she is in an alien world and sticks to her theory that everything she sees is some sort of trick for WAY too long. <BR>4. The gender roles in this book are much more aggravating than in the originating book in this series. Why?  Because Tedra was trained to be tolerant of other cultures no matter what.  Brittany is a 28 year-old, modern, American woman who is a carpenter.  Being on her own and in a \\"man's\\" profession has required her to be extremely self-sufficient and emotionally strong.  Before you know it, she's wearing  sexually provocative clothing, giving up any notion of seeing her family or friends ever again (unless she can convince Dalden to \\"allow\\" her to see them), getting physically attacked for disobeying Dalden's orders, etc. etc. <BR>Imagine this: replace the word Lindsey uses, \\"barbaric\\", with \\"fundamentalist Muslim\\" and this world to which Brittany submits so she can be with her \\"soulmate\\" would be Taliban Afghanistan. Women cannot go out without a male escort. Women cannot hold jobs. Women are not educated. Women have no say in their spouses. Women must dress according to male dictates and have no say in their own clothing. Women must obey what their spouse tells them to do or be punished (okay, so Brittany can't have her hand chopped off -- but isn't that nearly what happened as an author-created punishment for her \\"disobeying\\" Dalden's orders?) Women have literally no say in their own lives or those of their children.<BR>And finally,troublemaking women are removed (by Tedra to other planets) so there will be no growth or change and the barbaric world Tedra so deplores will never evolve.  There will always be rebels to repression and by removing them, Tedra is actually preventing a natural progression of cultural evolution that would  be in the best interests of half the population!  Argh.<br />The sop at the end to our modern sensibilities by having Dalden \\"allow\\" Brittany to build her dream house was way too little way too late.  The book would have been much better had the author had Tedra working in some fashion for change and learning how Brittany fit into that cultural moment.	2002-05-14
US	51318728	R3POZ2OB0BPE07	006018888X	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss: A Cynster Christmas Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	One rotten apple	It's really too bad that Stephanie Laurens did not write this book first if she was going to have the hero be unfaithful to the heroine later in life.  Knowing that he was unfaithful and had an illegitimate son was a piece of foreknowledge that made me constantly look for the flaw in him in this book and view his \\"love\\" with skepticism. And frankly, I don't really understand why Laurens felt the introduction of his infidelity and illegitimate son was necessary to the series.  I am just not buying the excuse that he felt sorry for some woman and THEREFORE had sex with her. Whaaat? Excuse me?  I feel sorry for a lot of people, but that doesn't mean I get horizontal with them. And did he have sex with all of the women in this book that the author states that he has helped over the years, including Lady Obaldstone?  No, there is no evidence of that.  So, with reluctance I had to give this book 3 stars instead of the 4 it deserved.	2002-04-12
US	51318728	R3O2DDIEJMEJUG	0843945133	334325801	Fairest of Them All (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Suspence, romance, class differences and the Jungle Book?	At the onset of this novel, Victorian wunderkind 30-year old Dr. Daniel Cantry, Esq. has forced upon him a girl raised by wild dogs in Africa.  The lawyer for the family of this beast-like girl is a kindly gentleman, who sets a wager before Daniel. If he can transform the girl, Talitha, into a \\"normal\\" Victorian miss ready for her debut within 3 years, he will win 20,000 pounds from her \\"distant' relative, the earl of Hawkenge. Daniel accepts the wager and begins the nearly impossible task. Known for his brilliance both as a doctor and a lawyer, Daniel becomes convinced that there is more to the tale of Talitha's supposed loss in the wilds of Africa.       Without giving away too much of the plot, which has tremendous suspense and twists and turns which keep you glued to your chair, Daniel quickly realizes that Talitha is older than she appears, that the \\"distant\\" relative is much closer than he appears, and that her refusal to speak is not a sign of her lack of intelligence. Once provided with proper nutrition, Talitha grows nearly 18 inches and reaches a late puberty, but still does not speak until she is goaded to do so after many months.  Once she speaks, Daniel is still confronted with the difficulty of transforming her into a proper miss and later protecting her life from those with designs against her.      Once her true character and intelligence is revealed, Daniel falls in love.  But he refuses to acknowledge it and even after acknowledging it, refuses to marry her even though she repeatedly states her love for him, due to their class differences. As always, as an American reader, the class difference issue can be somewhat hard to believe, but the author does a clever job of displaying the differences between the working rural class from which Daniel came, the middle class of which Daniel is now a member, and the upper aristocracy into which Talitha was born.     This novel is one of the more original historical romances I have read in a long time, which considering that is clearly a cross between the Jungle Book and My Fair Lady, is quite an accomplishment.  The plot is complex and the character development has tremendous depth.  As you read, you can \\"see\\" the people and action in your mind's eye, because the author is so talented at description and evoking a scene and emotions.  The ending felt a little rushed, but that is a minor flaw in an other wise masterful work of complicated plotting and character development.	2002-03-12
US	51318728	R6LF0K8C8334C	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Ab Fab except for 2 yecchy love scenes	Suddenly You is such a wonderful and original story, that I really wanted to give it five stars and I would have if the flaw had not been so, well, yecchy. (More on that later.)          In Victorian London, Amanda is a published author, about to turn 30 years old. She had spent her youth nursing first her dying mother, then her dying father, while her sisters married and had families.  When she is finally free from family obligations, she moves to London to pursue her writing career and make a life for herself different than her small hometown could offer.      Amanda is missing one thing, however, - a man in her life.  Gut instinct tells her that the respectable but dull marriages of her sisters are not for her and besides at thirty, who would be interested in a dried up spinster?  Wanting to experience sex, she takes the daring step of visiting a madam and asking her to procure a man for her 30th birthday.  The madam, in a matchmaking fit, decides to send young publisher Jack Devlin to her house on that night - Jack thinks he is going there to discuss a business matter. He quickly realizes that Amanda is expecting him to perform sexually and up to a point, he is happy to oblige and then leaves with a mostly-satisfied Amanda none the wiser about his identity.      Of course, Amanda discovers the truth. She is mortified, especially when she learns he has purchased her first novel, long moldering with the original publisher, and she will have to work with him to edit the book.  Eventually they succumb to the sexual attraction between them and fall in love. In one of the many realistic scenes in this bok, when Amanda learns that gossip about their affair has begun she realizes she must end it because she cannot live with the consequences of the gossip.  At the same time, a very nice gentleman of their class becomes interested in Amanda and offers marriage.  Amanda intends to accept it, especially when she discovers that she is pregnant with Jack's child.  Her honorable fiance tells Jack of the baby because he feels he has a right to know and Jack and Amanda do marry.      Although Jack is very quick to tell Amanda that he loves her after the marriage (almost too quick - I was wondering if I had inadvertently skipped a page), not all is well as there are minor problems to resolve and most importantly, Amanda miscarries the baby.  Ah well, it is a romance and so all is well and they live happily ever after, not only personally but professionally.         One of the wonderful aspects of this story is that it is clear that Amanda and Jack are a good match - they have much in common and can work together, so you can see how a relationship would last between them, unlike so many other characters in historical romance who seem to have nothing in common beyond the bed sheets. There were no \\"evil-for-no-apparent-reason\\" characters to move the plot along, \\"just\\" a great character-driven story.  The characters were well-fleshed out, in Jack's case partly through the use of secondary characters telling his story. It would have been very easy to have Jack be one of those oh-so-typical dark and tormented males of romantic fiction given his upbringing, but Kleypas resisted that trite tempation.      Kleypas skillfully weaves scads of historical information and character development into an original plot, which kept me engaged to the very end. I wish more authors would write about groups other than the nobility, especially if they can imitate Kleypas, who so handily mixes historical background into the story without sounding like she plagiarized from a history textbook.    Now, for what I and my book group considered the yucky part.  All in all, the love scenes were well written, erotic and exciting. However, there were two scenes that I could have really lived without - one \\"alternative orifice\\" scene involving Jack's finger and the final love scene after Amanda's miscarriage when Jack inserts raspberries where no raspberries have gone before.  I know it takes all kinds and romantic fiction authors today seems to be trying to write something \\"new\\" in their sex scenes, but those were two sexual \\"options\\" that made me want to cross my legs - so only 4 stars instead of 5.	2002-03-06
US	51318728	RR9SUR2C0BN9W	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	If you like violent action movies plus some sex...	I am somewhat at a loss with Cherry Adair's action/romance books. On the one hand, they are extremely well-written, engrossing reads with strong characters and hot sex scenes (which is why I gave her 4 stars). On the other hand, after much thought, I feel they are just too violent -- at least for me (which is why I did not give her 5 stars).   HAS has multiple scenes of violent death and torture, including scenes of torture of the heroine by the sadistic lesbian mother of the terrorist kingpin. The problem, for me, is that Adair is so adept at painting scenes with words that I felt like I was WATCHING a particularly violent action movie -- especially horrible when the terrorist Ramon executes a young boy and then feeds him to an anaconda.  So, if you don't mind violent action movies and want a good read, this book would be an excellent choice for you -- as long as you don't read it right before going to bed!  (Note to readers: Hide and Seek is much more violent than Kiss and Tell.)	2002-03-01
US	51318728	R3S7E6VG3Q9VMY	0373790287	683299239	All Tied Up (Harlequin Blaze, No 24)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	This plot is tied up in knots	This book is the first in a series about a group of 6 young women who successfully started an internet site in California.  Macy is the main character in this book and is a self-proclaimed \\"wild child\\" who does not want to grow up.  This image is further abetted by her fashion style - dressing like a teenager, which compounds the childish appearance of her body and face. Macy hooks up with lawyer Leo, who is a stuffed shirt who barely smiles, let alone is interested in having a \\"wild\\" lifestyle. What do they see in each other? Cheap sex is all they have in common as far as I can tell.  The author's goals were too ambitious for this first novel in the series and the story would have been greatly improved by judicious editing.  There were too many details that were extraneous to this story and future installments, for example, paragraphs were spent on describing the food at Macy's parties and the interactions between the other and men at the parties.  I suppose the latter was designed to pique interest in future installments, but all it did was decrease the amount of space devoted to the main characters in this book. The secondary story about Macy's roommate and her boyfriend should have been greatly trimmed in favor of much greater character development of Macy and especially Leo.  I never understood the main characters and more importantly, could not figure out what they saw in each other - especially Macy's interest in Leo because the guy never talked, he always just walked.  He walked out every time something out of routine happened without saying a word. This would get old really fast. As far as I could tell Leo was interested in Macy because she was easy. And because the couple did not truly have what I would consider a real relationship at any time in the book - including the end, their sexual behavior was cheap adn tawdry and hardly what I am looking for even in a Blaze romance.  I don't see this couple lasting longer than it takes for the flare of sexual attraction to pass.	2002-02-28
US	51318728	R3J8MEUN9DK6AC	0425179060	258701757	A Dance Through Time (Macleod Family)	Books	1	15	23	N	N	I can believe in time travel, but not this idiot heroine	Time travel is my very favorite romance subgenre and this book may be my least favorite time travel book.  It's not that I have a problem with suspending disbelief, obviously.  But I did have a problem with the idiot heroine of this book.  First of all, not only is she a virgin (which is fine), but apparently she has never been kissed (much, anyway) even though she is clearly attrative. Okay. Why is this? We do not know. Then, in her own time, she agrees to be engaged to a nerdy male librarian. (As a former librarian, I protest on behalf of all of us -- not ALL of us are nerdy, but well, that's a different story).  Of course, nerdy librarian  merely serves as codewords for dry, dusty, unattractive and you guessed, it asexual because he has never even kissed her. Nonetheless he plunks a 2 carat solitaire on her hand. Why does she agree to this? What is this, regency England?  Regency heroines get more action than this chick. So, then she goes back through time and meets Mel Gibson in Braveheart mode, who has not had any woman in his life other than for occasional casual sex for almost his entire life. He does not even know how to kiss a woman -- which is something he realizes before he even kisses the heroine, but she was apparently living in a nunnery in New York and does not know that he does not know what he is doing. If he KNEW that, why did he not learn how to kiss -- I mean it's clear he has sex all over the place and no one could show him how?  It's not like you need 18 years of formal education to learn how to kiss. Then, he has never even heard of a woman's menstrual cycle -- did not even know about it at all. Come on!  Didn't one of his fellow carousers with loose women EVER mention this in light of women's availability for sex? Maybe some of these questions were answered later in the book but I decided my time was too valuable to spend finishing it. And what's up with his illegitimate son who was raised in this vile environment, but displays a delicacy offeeling that is absolutely unlikely? I could go on, but I don't want you to spend more time reading this review than I spent reading this book.	2002-02-27
US	51318728	R2ONGLKMSX88NZ	0373790295	472516254	Enslaved (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	One of the best in the series	The Blaze novels sometimes are interesting, exciting and/or erotic and sometimes they leave me cold.  Enslaved definitely falls in the first category.  This novel is set at a resort in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, called Eden. It is a super-secret all-inclusive resort created by and for women only. There women may \\"purchase\\" men for a period up to a month.  The resort includes an area that sounds like \\"Downtown Disney\\" at WDW, only Downtown Disney certainly does not have a fantasy pavilion!      The novel begins when Navy SEAL Chad Hunter is asked by his admiral to infiltrate Eden as a male escort in order to ascertain the whereabouts of his son, an ex-SEAL who entered Eden six months ago and has not been seen since.  Meanwhile, Brittany is forced to go to Eden by her mother, one of the resort's founders.  Her mother feels that Brittany has been living in a shell since her divorce from a philandering husband and that it is time to recover fully, including dating men. The best way, she thinks, is to jump into a pool where all the men are gorgeous and available! (Sounds like a plan to me!)     Brittany and Chad meet on the first night at a mixer and Brittany's mother, seeing the interest Brittany tries to hide, purchases Chad for her daughter for a month.  Brittany and Chad then stay together at her mother's cottage at the resort. While Chad is looking for the admiral's son, he is also seducing Brittany.  Eventually, Chad confides in Brittany and they search together to a surprising conclusion.      During the course of their search they use two rooms in the fantasy pavilion  a bondage room and a star-themed room. The bondage room scene is not scary, IMO, so don't worry if you hear bondage and think whips and chains. The sexual tension is high and the sex scenes highly erotic.  I hope the author continues writing novels using this resort and we get to see all of the rooms in the fantasy pavilion!	2002-02-26
US	51318728	R2FHFMXGQ6TAE	082177008X	100629802	Devil May Care	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well-developed characters and a scream of a cousin	In the late Victorian period, eighteen-year old Lady Eden has spent the last 6 years in a convent since the death of her parents. Although she wishes to take vows to become a nun, her uncle/guardian refuses her request until she has\\" lived a little\\" by having a season.      In steps her flamboyant cousin Reggie, who still lives at home (driving his father crazy) and who convinces her that the best way to see real life is through the tutelage of the ton's \\"devil\\", Lord Damien Sinclair.    \\"Devil\\" agrees to the plan and with Reggie's hysterical help, takes Eden to various unsavory locations (brothel, gaming hell), dressed variously as a boy and a member of the demimonde.   Meanwhile, Eden is being courted by Devil's archnemesis, Lord Hugh Myddleton, whose father had a long-standing affair with Devil's mother.  Hugh appears angelic, but is in fact a sexual predator of young innocents, while Devil, who appears to be an immoral rake, is both less and more than he seems.       Devil is not only fighting his attraction to Eden, he is still dealing with grief over his father's death, his mother's inexplicable dislike of her children, and the nearly-bankrupt estate he inherited.  Meanwhile, through his emotional connection to Eden, he is able to learn the true motivations for her desire to become a nun.  Although there are some curious and unresolved loose ends (as in how Devil's younger brothers appear to have more than enough money when the estate is bankrupt and no mention is made of any enterprises of their own), the book is an engrossing read, greatly enlivened by Cousin Reggie.     In fact, my only major caveat is that I wish Ms. George had not \\"resolved\\" Reggie by book's end.  He was one of the best secondary characters in a romance novel I have read in recent years.  How often do we see a flamboyantly homosexual character who is not riven with angst and self-contempt?  He was something like Jack in Will and Grace, but with a twist  I won't spoil the surprise for you! I would have enjoyed seeing him and his romantic troubles in the subsequent books in the series, perhaps ending with a fourth book just about him. Well, maybe Ms. George can kill off Reggie's love and start the cycle again!  We live in hope.	2002-02-26
US	51318728	R1J562NPK1FBA4	0380978342	135421562	Ritual of Proof	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Regency Sci-Fi?  And it works!	What a wonderful idea - take the Regency period and reverse it so that the women are the top dogs.<br />When Dara Joy is \\"on\\", she is one of my favorite authors (think, High Energy). When she is \\"off\\" (e.g. Mine to Take), I can't even finish the book.  I am glad that this wonderful idea for a plot occurs in one of Joy's \\"on\\" books.<br />Women astronauts flee their home planet and settle on a new one, without any men. Using artificial insemination, they begin their initial colonization of the planet.  They set up society based upon romance novels they brought with them, which are subsequently locked in the archives and available to only a select few.  In this society, the role reversal is almost total.  Men are prohibited from education, good jobs, political activity, and sexual freedom.  Their role is to impregnate their wives and raise the children or serve as minor servants or be prostitutes. Men of good background are secluded until they become adults to preserve their mental and physical innocence until their first \\"Season\\" when they seek to attract a good \\"catch\\".  Their physical innocence at the time of marriage is visible and an absolute necessity. The need to prove this innocence is the origin of the \\"Ritual of Proof\\".  The heroine Green is a high-ranking politician who has known the hero, Jorlan, since he was a boy.  Much older than Jorlan, Green is sophisticated, beautiful and known for her sexual prowess.  Jorlan is an innocent, who nonetheless wants to rebel against society and encourage a more equal relationship between men and women. He persuades his grandmother, a duchess, to allow him a choice in his marriage,  but he intends to never agree to any woman under society's current structure.  At a ball during the season, Green entices Jorlan out to the garden and gives him his first kiss.  This wonderfully written scene is poignant and sweet and sensual all in one. Green intends to offer for Jorlan, but realizes that he will have to be finagled into it over time due to his displeasure with societal structures.  Alas, her subtle plans are for naught when she discovers that the evil Lordene Claudine has designs to make Jorlan her 4th husband.  To protect Jorlan from certain death, Green and the duchess arrange a quick marriage, much against Jorlan's will. (The women do not tell Jorlan of Claudine's evil designs, because it is their role to protect the men in their lives.)  Jorlan's \\"deflowering\\" was both a clever reversal of sexual roles and another wonderful love scene.   Shortly thereafter, the couple must travel to one of Green's estates to handle a crisis caused by Claudine. While they are away, Claudine contests the marriage on the grounds that Jorlan was not a virgin.  This plot to steal Jorlan away leads to the climax of the book. <br />I have only two caveats, and they are minor.  I wish that Jorlan had retained more of his innocence throughout the book. In the early chapters, Green notes that his essential innocence, naivete,  and sweetness are a core part of his being and that they would always be there. However, I felt that the quickness with which he to took to wanting to always be the dominant person in the sexual relationship negated that statement, even though the author explained it as being due to his nature as a \\"Sensitive\\". Even though Jorlan is a rebel, he was totally ignorant of sexuality and yet felt the need to always be on top.  I understood why he needed to be a rebel for the characters to work, but I felt that he was moving perilously close to becoming a \\"typical male\\".  Secondly, given what is revealed of Green in the last 2 pages, I don't understand why she was sure she would die in the duel with Claudine.<br />There are two setups clearly leading to more books in this series.  One involves Green's \\"pleasurer\\", River, whom she is sending off with her help to create a new life so that he does not have to return to being a prostitute.  The second involves Claudine's young daughter who learnsof her mother' evil and flees the capital.  Are these two going to meet or are they two separate books in the offing?  I can't wait to read them!	2002-02-25
US	51318728	RKAOXT9TID5WP	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another dark hero saved by innocent love, but still good	When the book opens, Princess Serafina is running from French kidnappers.  She is saved by the head of royal security, Darius, whom she has known her entire life. The year is 1805, Serafina is 20 and Darius is 34.  She is the oldest offspring of King Lazar and Queen Allegra of the island kingdom of Ascension. He is the illegitimate offspring of a Spanish count and a gypsy woman.  She is to remain pure until her political marriage to Russian Prince Anatole in exchange for his military protection against Napoleon.  Darius is termed a male slut (although not a \\"rake\\" in the typical romance tradition).  She is outgoing and spoiled (although she feels that her parents do not truly love her), while he has been abused as a child, is shy underneath his bravado, and has feelings of self-loathing due to his abuse as a child. What they share is love for each other, physical beauty and different degrees of terrible parenting.<br />The plot revolves around Darius' need to prove himself worthy of Serafina, even though he feels he can never marry her.  After the initial kidnaping attempt, Darius takes Serafina away to a country villa to protect and hide her.  There the two quickly become physically intimate, although Serafina remains a virgin. Upon returning to the palace, Darius leaves without warning to assassinate Napoleon.  He knows that doing so will not only rid the world of a monster, but free Serafina from the need to marry Anatole. While doing a requested background check for Lazar, Darius discovered that Anatole had caused his first wife's death.  Darius does not expect to marry Serafina when all is said and done, however, because he expects to die after killing Napoleon.  Unfortunately, Darius' shot goes awry, his plans to commit suicide with arsenic are foiled and he is captured.  Napoleon's sister, Pauline, spirits Darius out of his death row prison cell to have sex with him and he is able to escape.  He makes it back to Ascension on the eve of Serafina's wedding andgoes immediately to her room. Finally, the two make love and Serafina ensures that her parents will catch them in bed, thereby negating the political wedding and ensuring her wedding to the man she loves.   A battle of wills between two strong-willed people ensues, complicated by the brewing military battle, the spurned and murderous ex-fiancé Anatole, Serafina's brother (the heir apparent, Prince Rafael) and his unwise liaison with a duplicitous older woman that leads to a near rout of Ascension.<br />The plot is fast-paced and although politics plays a huge role in it, the author never lets the reader get lost in political details.  The characters in Serafina and Darius' generation are well-drawn and believable.  By the end of the book, you feel that you have \\"been there\\" with them and know these characters. My only caveat is that after reading about Lazar and Allegra in the Pirate Prince, I felt that they either had an unsupported personality change between then and now, that they really must be horrible people and that fact was hidden in the earlier work, or Foley has unnecessarily betrayed her characters in order to create the essential plot point.  It was shocking tto see these characters as parents who were totally unconcerned not only with Serafina's emotional happiness, but her very life.  Allegra especially would have willingly sacrificed her at any time to save Prince Rafael - Serafina was clearly disposable. (Rafael, although the favorite, is also not given good parenting either.) And then at the end, to have Lazar tell Darius he would have allowed them to marry at any time, if Darius had only asked - well, that made no sense in light of his earlier unconcern with her health or happiness and very rapid use of her as a political pawn. (I mean, he did not even wait for the background check to come back.)  I felt the older characters would have been better served if they had been shown to be in a huge dilemma about how to save their island and Serafina too- they could have pretended to agree to the marriage and then scheme to prevent it, with or without Darius.  This misstep by the author is the reason why the book gets 4 stars instead of 5.	2002-02-25
US	51318728	RHV1JZ5APHF8C	0373790090	636758513	Thirty Nights (Blaze, 5)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Love with a hook	While a graduate student at MIT, Hunter's work is stolen by his professor.  The professor scoffs at Hunter's anger and urges him to understand that the best way to succeed is to eschew emotion and look out for oneself.  Hunter goes on a bender for several months and then straightens himself out, academically speaking, and goes onto a brilliant career in genetics. His research is based upon his \\"discovery\\" that one can predict human behavior with over 90% accuracy based upon DNA (which theory I just did not buy, but I was willing to suspend my disbelief). Both the Defense and State Departments are paying him for his research and various terrorist organizations want to kill him, which led to a letter bombing resulting in facial scarring and the loss of one hand. He lives and works on an island in Maine, where he has a lusty, but merely friendly, relationship with a fellow scientist. One night the woman brings over a video of his former mentor's daughter, who is a world-famous pianist, Gillian Cassidy.  Hunter is immediately smitten and decides to accomplish two goals at once: revenge on his mentor and sex with Gillian. He forces Gillian's father to convince her to be his sex slave for 30 nights or he will reveal the father's long ago mendacity (the father now on the downslide of his career, everyone would believe the currently envogue Hunter).  Although Gillian, who is a 25-year old virgin, has precious little love for her father she agrees, largely because she had a crush on Hunter when she was 12.  All of this set up is packed into a relatively short amount of pages and the book truly begins when Gillian appears at Hunter's island.  In some ways, I found the resulting love/sex scenes a let down because after Gillian immediately talks back to him and he confiscates her underwear, Hunter retreats to his lab to watch Gillian roam around his house via hidden cameras.  Somehow, after several days of barely seeing him, Gillian is hot for him.  Although the sex scenes arewell done and different (especially the one in a sleigh at a winter carnival), I was expecting more from the story's set up. (Note: Some readers may be bothered by the use of Hunter's hook in the sex scenes.) The subplot about Hunter's work and the resulting violence committed on both him and especially Gillian seemed almost unnecessary -- I thought that there was enough of a story there without terrorism in Maine.  Overall a good read.	2002-02-22
US	51318728	R16AHOXPWZQO4N	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Good story, but Foster is in a rut	This book is the last in a series about modern-day heroes: firefighters, cops,paramedics.  Firefighter Josh has watched his 2 friends succumb to love, when prissy Amanda enters his life with a mission. The mission is to persuade hunky Josh to pose for a beefcake calendar to benefit the local burn center.  Amanda has her own reasons for focussing on this charity, which has affected her life, particularly her love life: guilt over a fire at her home when she was a teenager.  I won't give the plot point away except to say that the result is that she feels she is sexually frigid and at age 24 is still a virgin. <BR>While the story on its own merits 4 stars for a category romance, I almost gave it three stars for Foster's seemingly endless reliance on two basic characerizations.  The man in Foster's books always seems to be gorgeous and oversexed and  \\"falls in love\\" with the woman for no reason apparent to us, the readers. The woman is a seemingly-repressed virgin (or \\"born-again virgin\\") who nonetheless wears sexy lingerie underneath her less than exciting clothing and is willing to engage in massive amounts of sex the first time out.  Moreover, the first-time sex is often not just your garden-variety sex. In the case of this book, Amanda performs oral sex upon Josh's command before her first time at intercourse. Although Josh expresses remorse to himself the next morning on this very topic, I found this scene to be extremely unrealistic for a virgin who had been frigid for 7 years and had no experience in this area. If the scene had occurred later in the relationship (even the next day), it would have been more believable. However, Foster seldom has her couple engage in sex before the reader after the deflowering episode. Unless Foster gets out of her well-worn track, (that is very similar to Diana Palmer), I will get bored with her.	2002-02-20
US	51318728	R1V062XR0QOZPO	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good story, but Foster is in a rut	This book is the last in a series about modern-day heroes: firefighters, cops,paramedics.  Firefighter Josh has watched his 2 friends succumb to love, when prissy Amanda enters his life with a mission. The mission is to persuade hunky Josh to pose for a beefcake calendar to benefit the local burn center.  Amanda has her own reasons for focussing on this charity, which has affected her life, particularly her love life: guilt over a fire at her home when she was a teenager.  I won't give the plot point away except to say that the result is that she feels she is sexually frigid and at age 24 is still a virgin. <BR>While the story on its own merits 4 stars for a category romance, I almost gave it three stars for Foster's seemingly endless reliance on two basic characerizations.  The man in Foster's books (e.g. Wild and the Winston brothers trilogy) always seems to be gorgeous and oversexed and  \\"falls in love\\" with the woman for no reason apparent to us, the readers. The woman is a seemingly-repressed virgin (or \\"born-again virgin\\") who nonetheless wears sexy lingerie underneath her less than exciting clothing and is willing to engage in massive amounts of sex the first time out.  Moreover, the first-time sex is often not just your garden-variety sex. In the case of this book, Amanda performs oral sex upon Josh's command before her first time at intercourse. Although Josh expresses remorse to himself the next morning on this very topic, I found this scene to be extremely unrealistic for a virgin who had been frigid for 7 years and had no experience in this area. If the scene had occurred later in the relationship (even the next day), it would have been more believable. However, Foster seldom has her couple engage in sex before the reader after the deflowering episode. Unless Foster gets out of her well-worn track, (that is very similar to Diana Palmer), I will get bored with her.	2002-02-20
US	51318728	R2T4O8J8LL8SQF	0515132292	832702369	Wild	Books	3	45	55	N	N	Wild? Am I missing something? ...	\\"Wild\\"? In what way?  That was the question I kept asking myself while reading this book.  In Foster's earlier works on the Winston brothers, Zane is alluded to as the \\"wild\\" one, apparently because of his carefree sexual lifestyle, flirtatiousness, and willingness to strip off his shirt when customers in the family bar ask him to do so (which begs the question of how this bar is known as a \\"family\\" place).  Whether or not the reader might think that behavior is wild, however, is moot because we see precious little of it in this, the only full-length book about the Winstons.  Don't get me wrong - the plot is generally well constructed and the \\"read\\" is an enjoyable one, which is why I gave it three stars. The book begins when Zane's next door business neighbor, Tamara, propositions him in the middle of a huge sale in his computer store (sure, that's when I would proposition a hunk with whom I had scarcely exchanged two words). Tamara runs a \\"gypsy\\" boutique and dresses the part, complete with long black hair, toe rings, and ankle bells.  Inexplicably (since Zane would seem to have sex with anything that moves), he turns her down and then later changes his mind and knocks on the door to her apartment over the store.  There he discovers not only what she really looks like (blond), but what she really is (the standard Foster heroine: a virgin), and what her life is really like (crazy \\"Gypsy\\" relatives who belittle her and mess up her life, a business in trouble due to sabotage and break ins, and a family-approved suitor from the \\"old country\\").  Throw in a new Winston cousin with a dark past and an erotic journal Tamara inadvertently purchased at an estate sale, apparently wanted by someone else and unbelievably tied to someone else in the story, and you have the stew of a plot. Although Foster handles the plot well enough, the whole book has a feeling of \\"construction\\", i.e. the reader can feel the author creating the plot devices as one reads along.  Zane goes from turning Tamara down for easy sex to shortly thereafter wanting her forever with little motivation or relationship development (another common Foster plot device, especially evident in the Chase Winston story). Finally, I have just not been enthralled with Foster's reliance on virgin heroines who, during their first time having sex, have no inhibitions in bed and are emotionally and physically able to have multiple intercourse episodes - hey, I know romance are fantasies, but when I wince during a love scene, well, that's not so fantastic.	2002-02-19
US	51318728	RGTVD4J6NZ1P8	0440236908	767194494	The Beautiful Stranger (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 3)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	A cliched disappointment from a great author	After Ruthless Charmer, I had such high hopes for this concluding book in the series, but alas, I was doomed to disappointment. My first indication of trouble with this usually quite original author was that Arthur goes to Scotland, which country is such a cliche these days for the \\"primitive\\" life that will somehow redeem one of the main, over-urbanized characters. And indeed, that is exactly what happens. Secondly, he travels there to handle a business affair remaining from the death of his friend, Philip, at the behest of Philip's father. Now the problem here is that the father believes the \\"Rogues\\" led his son to his death -- would he then ask one of them to handle Philip's business affairs, even if he blamed Arthur for not preventing the son for getting into that business problem? Unlikely.  What is more unlikely is the fact that the business in question involves our heroine, Kerry, whom Arthur \\"just happens\\" to meet on the side of the road somewhere in Scotland while he is lost and she is waiting for a stagecoach.  There's coincidence, and then there's ridiculous. And then, there is the other cliche of the evil local landowner who threatens Kerry and her bankrupt clan unless she marries his son.  The son, of course, then tries to rape her and she kills him in self defense. We get a break from the Scottish idyll when the hero gets there \\"just\\" in the nick of time and spirits Kerry away to England to save her from certain hanging. Kerry resists being transformed into a proper British lady but stupidly keeps insisting upon her need to return to Scotland even though she KNOWS she will hang if she does so.  This point is where I started just skimming the book - I have no patience for dumb behavior. Or maybe Arthur is attracted to people who are self-destructive? How Kerry is finally saved, by our hero of course, strained my credulity to the max. Can we say \\"melodramatic\\"?  I can only guess that London was under a deadline when she came up with the hackneyed \\"coincidences\\" and plot lines in this book.  I am getting tired of good series ending with lousy books, like \\"The Wicked One\\" in Danelle Harmon's series.  I would much rather the author take as long as she needs, even if she needs a break, to write a truly fabulous final volume than the rushed work we are seeing.	2002-02-13
US	51318728	R3S8HT01QEYBGQ	1551668637	205704227	A New Attitude	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Heroine Hangs Herself and then makes dinner?	I guess I wasn't in the right frame of mind to read this book, because although there were plenty of funny scenes and interesting characters, I kept getting stuck on something.  That something was the fact that the book starts with the heroine's attempted suicide.  What bothered me was not the topic (with an ER nurse for a mom and a funeral director for a father-in-law I can handle macabre humor), but the fact that after failing, she merely picks up the pieces (literally) of her house and life, lifts the noose from around her neck and goes on to have more adventures in 3 months than most people have in a lifetime, without counseling or any look back.  As I kept reading, I also repeatedly wondered just what kind of ignorant idiot the hero was -- he clearly saw that the heroine attempted suicide and just went home after she said she was okay.  Could you do that? Wouldn't you have wanted to check on her during the night?  Wouldn't you have called a doctor or SOMETHING? And if I were the heroine, I might wonder that given the hero's track record, if I were bleeding profusely and from lack of blood and being in shock, said I was \\"okay\\",  would the hero just keep walking out the door on his way to work?  Maybe I am a little more sensitive than a reader who has not had a suicide in their family, but having lived through that family trauma, I found it hard to get past the set up scene of the book.	2002-02-11
US	51318728	R2DV4LPR30N0IK	0373790198	108708882	You Sexy Thing!	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Stupid subplots stifle story	This book is full of tradmark Blaze sexuality, deliberately heightened by the choice of 2 sex therapists as the protagonists. I won't repeat the plot, as other reviewers have done so quite well already. In a ostensible reversal of \\"traditional\\" roles, the male character, Dylan, is the conservative, repressed one while Gracie seems to be the freely sexual being. In reality, however, Dylan is the one who makes the physically-aggressive first move and Grace is nearly a \\"born-again virgin\\", so the characters are actually fairly traditional in their behavior. In addition to the bedroom gymnastics, we have too many subplots: a stalker, Gracie's parents are having sexual problems, Gracie and Dylan's personal assistants are having a romance of their own, Dylan has problems with his commune-living pseudo hippie parents -- all of which makes the book a little more complicated than the number of pages can support. I don't have a clue what the stalker subplot was supposed to add to the story, nor, frankly, the sexual problems of Gracie's parents or the PA's romance. Dylan's parents are idiots in my book, the kind of pseudo-typical \\"California\\" parents who provide their child with no guidance or structure and call that \\"progressive parenting\\"; his problems with that (and their nudity in front of others) are \\"his hangups.\\"  And yet, after providing him with no morals whatsoever, they are shocked when he is screwing Gracie while nearly engaged to another woman. The book would have been much stronger without the hippie parent subplot, which I just found aggravating. However, I could ignore these extraneous subplots until the \\"conflict\\" which prevents Gracie from accepting Dylan's proposal -- which seems to come from nowhere and is not supported fully by the rest of the story. If the author had ditched the subplots in favor of stronger character development the book would have rated much higher. I gave it 3 stars for the main characers' plot (minus the left-field, last minute conflict).	2002-02-05
US	51318728	R21XF6083KTM9X	0380809095	60777476	The Wicked One	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Like fast food: it is only momentarily satisfying.	Harmon is to be given credit for creating a series in which each book and its characters are distinctly different.  Unlike Stephanie Laurens' Bar Cynster series (which is generally wonderful, but unfortunately each hero is nearly identical), each couple in this series is unique and there is a theme holding the series together: the machinations of the eldest brother Lulcien. On its own this book, would rate 4 stars, but as the culminating book in this series on the de Monteforte brothers, it is a disappointment and therefore I gave it only 3 stars. All through this series, I had been eagerly anticipating the story of the seemingly-Machiavellian Lord Lucien and his comeuppance.  The set up in The Defiant One (my favorite of the series) was well done and led me to think that The Wicked One would employ both a devious and worthy heroine and lush love scenes (after all, Lucien and Eva were stealing an aphrodisiac from each other).  Instead, the heroine is foiled with little effort, becomes a shadow of her former self and the 2 first love/sex scenes between Lucien and Eva are unsatisfying and cut short.  It would be one thing if those scenes served as a teaser to a wonderful and revealing physical and emotional encounter, but unfortunately they do not. The scene in which Eva leaves Lucien and the two end up in dire physical straits due to an avoidable accident, seems forced. In addition, the series-long relationship between Lucien's sister Nerissa and her beau Perry has never been fully explicated and although that relationship played a pivotal role in this book, it was unsatisfying.  I thought the author missed the boat on this book: the aphrodisiac was not well employed as a deus ex machina, the sex scenes did not live up to the possibilities, and the characters' spy work was not employed to its full potential.	2002-01-29
US	51318728	R23U8XZDB1ZUQL	1575666065	987108217	Fascinated	Books	3	4	7	N	N	When does erotic romance become pornography or just weird?	What is the difference between erotica and pornography? I find myself pondering the question after reading this anthology. My guess is that a book or story is erotica (or erotic romance) if there is more to the story than how this couple &quot;inserts tab A into slot B,&quot; i.e. if there is some character development and plot line other than how the characters find ways to insert tabs into slots. That said, I found this anthology interesting in its variety. I thought Bertice Small's story, &quot;Mastering Lady Lucinda&quot; was S+M pornography with a &quot;love&quot; connecton thrown into the mix --all in purple prose of a kind I have not seen since Barbara Cartland (albeit pornographic Barbara Cartland).  I mean, honestly, the hero did what with his &quot;love lance&quot;?  I burst out laughing. Susan Johnson's story points out, once again, that she should stay away from writing short stories: quick plot and character development are not her strong suit and without the several hundred pages available in a regular-length book, her short stories tend to be boring. Thea Devine's story was definitely the hottest, IMO, and I wish it had been longer to create more back story which would have been more gratifying. I still don't understand why the heroine capitulated to the hero's sexual demands -- did she love him, did she desire him before he made them? I don't know. The last piece by Robin Schone was just plain weird.  I don't have anything against older characters in romance novels and initially I thought, &quot;Wow, this is a great concept -- romance and sexuality among people older than 30 and wow, even older than 40! I can relate.&quot; But, then... I couldn't: a EUNUCH for our hero? And the descriptions of the various kinds of eunuch-dom -- way more than I need to know! That was definitely not titillating or exciting or sensual. And the way in which the heroine physically manipulates the hero in order to bring him to satisfaction was, well, repulsive to me personally. This anthology is infinitely better than another supposed erotic anthology, &lt;Naughty Naughty&gt; (which also includes an infinitely worse piece by Susan Johonson).	2002-01-15
US	51318728	R20T52RGLRGMKM	0505524457	924479709	The Pleasure Master	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Too light -- it floats away into nothing	Time travel is my favorite romance subgenre and unfortunately there are a lot of duds out there. Usually, IMO, a time travel is a dud because the author spends too much time on descriptive prose, makes the story too serious, and/or does not spend enough time on character development.     The saving grace of this book was its humor; if not for the humor (largely from Kathy's toy deus ex machina Peter and not from the characters themselves)this book would have been a dud. The sizzling sex scenes one might expect from the set up never materialize and one is left wondering just how the hero, Ian, obtained and retains the \\"pleasure master\\" title. Although most readers prefer the hero to remain faithful to the heroine once she enters the picture and therefore we don't want to see Ian cavorting with his customers once Kathy arrives, some foreshadowing would have been helpful to establish his title if the author is going to tease the reader throughout most of the book.     I must say something about the stinkin' cell phone: clearly, the only reason the cell phone works is to allow Ian's brother Neil to communicate with his challenge, Kathy's lawyer Coco.  This plot device is (1) too transparent and annoying and (2) should have been carried to its natural conclusion by having Neil go forward in time with Ian and Kathy to deal with Coco. (If this book had been better, I would want the author to write a sequel with just that plot.) the book could have been a blast if the author had taken more time to fully develop the story.	2002-01-09
US	51318728	R3KP09APSDCBW3	0312971745	507177673	Naughty, Naughty: They're Bad Boys...Rakes, Rogues, And Men From The Wrong Side Of The Tracks. They Are...	Books	1	9	10	N	N	This book's stories are neither sexy or interesting	In reading this anthology, I realized why I tend to stay away from short stories: even good authors may be unable to create a worthwhile story in relatively few pages. There is definitely a talent and also a honed skill needed to accomplish character development and sufficient plot in the space allotted. I initially picked up this book because the title led me to believe that the stories might be fun, funny, amusing...which they are not in any way -- rather the stories are all quite serious and not what I expected (as others have noted the blurbs on the back cover are untrue.) In one story a woman wants to have sex with a male slut she somehow learned about because she thinks she is dying -- how is that naughty? In another, a woman trying to divorce her scary husband has not-very-exciting sex with a stranger in a bar and we then follow them as they try to extricate her from her marriage.  The last story about the woman who has sex for the first time with a man who yelled at her for &quot;encouraging&quot; a near rape while sunbathing fully clothed left me cold. Susan Johnson is the first author in the book and recognizing her name and her usually good stories led me to expect a lot more than is delivered here.  I usually enjoy her work, but in this case I actively hated the story almost by the 10th page. Johnson takes what I consider her worst characteristic -- a tendency to be a little too anatomically descriptive -- and makes it into the entire story. This piece consists of a couple engaging in constant unemotional sex without any foreplay, which is not of interest, I would think, to most readers in this genre. More importantly, the sex scenes are BORING!  Then she throws in some military/political hooha just to give it some kind of plot. The story would have been much more interesting had it acutally followed the plot listed on the back cover in which debutantes make the bet, rather than bored society matrons in Vienna.  Save your money and buy a good Susan Johnson book, rather than this anthology.	2002-01-04
US	51318728	R2B09BHPOC69ZT	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	Great cover and...great cover	I am clearly in the minority on this book, but have to say that I found it to be a huge disappointment.  I read it based upon my enjoyment of Dara Joy's High Energy which I loved. I do enjoy fantasy romances, so that was not the problem. The problem was that I found this book to be missing the elements which I saw in High Energy: interesting story, warmth, wittiness, good character development, believable or fun situations (even if they were ridiculous, the situations were fun), and wonderful love/sex scenes. The premise is full of potential: a princess on the run with their world's version of a living sex toy. Unfortunately I never cared about the couple, the woman was a wimp, the man was duplicitous for his own purposes without any consideration of the woman's life plans (whatever they were), and the main plot line was enough to put me to sleep (and did so on the night I was reading it).  The back and forth with scenes of people other than the couple from the hero's world were boring in the extreme and felt like a thinly-disguised renovation of any number of sci-fi movies or books. Even the sex/love scenes were cold, I felt, because the characters were so thinly developed.  The cover was great, though. Whew, what a cover.	2001-12-27
US	51318728	RT7R0R8OKQI9M	0380806290	934380949	The Wedding Bargain	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Perfect for a light, entertaining read	This book is one of three in the series about the family of the duchy of Roxborough and is the best of the bunch. (The other 2 are the Marriage Lesson and the Husband List.)   Pandora is definitely the most entertaining of the three heroines and Max's attempts to win her via the 12 labors of Hercules are a hoot. Unlike the other 2 books, Pandora and Max have more of a courtship and only have sex once prior to marriage.  I felt that scene happened  at the right time in their relationship, although I found it hard to believe that anyone would want to be intimate after having spent hours mucking out a stable!  Not romantic or even aromatic!  How about a serious bath first?  In the other 2 books, Alexander's development of the couple's sex life was problematic, in my opinion, because they engaged in a lengthy sexual relationship prior to marriage without any thought to the impact on the courtship or potential repercussions. This type of interaction is more valid for a contemporary romance and struck a false note in those 2 books, especially in the Marriage Lesson where the female heroine was a single virgin at the time of the onset of the relationship.    My only serious caveat to this book is my disbelief that Pandora would not recognize nor even remember the name of the man with whom she had pretended to elope several years before, who happened to be Max's best friend and whom everyone else in her family immediately recognized. This book is perfect for a light read on vacation, in a plane, or when you just need to relax.	2001-12-21
US	51318728	R17UBWFJ3K3CVN	0440235626	319402260	The Ruthless Charmer (The Rogues of Regent Street, Book 2)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Unique plot devices and interesting characterizations	Julia London is to be congratulated from veering from standard plot devices and resolutions in this masterful book. Our hero, Julian, has known our heroine, Claudia, for years since she was the childhood friend of his numerous sisters and spent many summers at his family's estate.  She had long had a crush on him, but was crushed when he failed to return for a promised dance in her first season.  This failure has led her to hold a grudge against him (which, frankly, was one of the many realistic touches in the book. Don't many of us hold grudges against the first man or boy to touch and break our hearts?)  Later, Julian becomes attracted to Claudia, but bows out when a close friend evinces interest in her before Julian can speak of his own.  This friend later dies of alchoholism and both Claudia and Julian blame Julian for failing to prevent the death.  The novel begins at this point and the above is told through conversation between the characters and some descriptive prose.  Claudia and Julian are caught in a compromising position and Claudia's father, who is more concerned about his political career than her happiness, forces her to marry much against her will. Meanwhile, Claudia has been anything other than the typical Regency miss concerned only with clothes and reading novels (ahem).  She has begun a battered women's shelter, secret from everyone in her life.  Kudos to London for introducing an important social issue without resorting to writing gratitious violence. All too often we forget that domestic violence has always existed and London educates us without ramming it down our throats.  Claudia's knowledge in this area does not, however, permit her to see that her sister-in-law's suitor is a batterer waiting to happen and against her husband's wishes urges the sister-in-law to elope.  Julian had known of the suitor's abusive nature and had done everything in his power to prevent the marriage, but had been unable to tell his wife or his sisters of the suitor's violence because of societal constraints against such conversation between men and women. I found this totally believable both for the time period in question (and unfortunately all too often in our own time). Julian, needless to say, has trouble forgiving his wife for aiding his sister's marriage to this abuser.  In the end, Julian finds an imperfect solution to the sister's  abusive marriage that, in contrast to most romances, does not involve the fortuitous death of the villian.  I loved this book because the characters were realistic; the author not only developed the characters well but she was able to give them a history without getting bogged down in pages of descriptive prose;  the hero was a rake (i.e. gorgeous, sexy and experienced)who was in fact loving and kind not only to his wife but to his family (I mean, who wouldn't want this guy?); the heroine had her own life and interests beyond Society; the love scenes were never perfunctory and always served to provide depth to the relationship; also the couple did not have fabulous sex even when they were angry or hurt -- their sex life did suffer as it would in reality. (I get so aggravated when I read love scenes in which the status of the relationship appears to be irrelevant to the sex life. I don't believe that would be accurate for the majority of women.)  This book stands alone without having read any of the others in this series. A keeper of a book, full of depth and richness.  Some of the plot devices are quite serious, but I never felt this was a gloom and doom book that was a chore or depressing to read.  Even though there is not a lot of humor in this book, which is normally a requirement for a keeper for me, the characters and story are so compelling that I will return to this book again and again.	2001-12-19
US	51318728	R1PQXC8SMEBW2E	0380794489	656635142	Lady Be Good	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Plot better used for a regency than a contemporary	Although I generally enjoy Phillips and her First Lady book is a favorite, this book has to be one of the worst contemporary romances I have ever read. The originating event that leads the heroine to our hero has to be one of the weakest plot devices ever used in a contemporary romance. In fact, it is just stupid, to say nothing of unbelievable.  The author asks us to believe that in the 1990s there is an attractive 30 year old virgin who is headmistress of an exclusive girls's school in England who is being blackmailed by an obnoxious nobleman (on whose estate this long-lived school is located) into marrying him to provide him with a desperately-longed for male heir because he has picked her out as the ONLY possible wife for himself. If she does not marry her virgin self to him he will have the school torn down.  So she decides that she must publicly prove herself to be a less than a virgin so that the evil nobleman will no longer want her and therefore give up his treacherous designs on the school's land. Give me a break.  I am willing to suspend credulity, but only so far. This plot device would work in a Regency romance, but not in a modern romance. Also -- how many 30 year olds are headmistresses (to say nothing of virgins)?  And what kind of idiots are the school's board of trustees to have operated a school on land without any contract whatsoever?  And if she publicly humiliates the nobleman by proving that she, his publicly affianced, is (not a virgin) -- won't there be retribution anyway? Anyway, she decides to go to Texas to lose her virginity (...). Her best friend arranges for the hero(of course, a gorgeous Texas jock) to be her escort. Although he is the world's best golfer, she has never seen his picture or even heard his name.  Okaaay. By the time they get to his condo from the airport he has convinced her that he is a male prostitute and for a fee will be happy to deflower her.  (Either she is too stupid and gullible to be a school headmistress or the author thinks we readers are stupid and gullible enough to buy this tripe.)  And it gets worse, because every time she does something publicly to prove she is less than pristine (because she knows the evil nobleman has sent a spy to Texas to check up on her) the reports the nobleman gets are less than accurate, because it turns out our hero is the spy and does not want to publicly brand her as tawdry! How the hero and the evil nobleman have a connection is just unbelievable. Then there is a truly annoying subplot with the hero's sister being forced to marry her father's business partner, (another Regency device) who of course turns out to love her and be a pistol in bed (but she must be shown her place and spanked before the sex occurs). Yeeech.  I could have lived without that scene in my life.  The hero's problem revolves around his work life and the climax of the book turns out to be a golf game described in excruciating detail. This book would have possibly worked as a Regency romance and should have been set there. The author uses a very similar scenario in the far superior, Heaven, Texas (virgin meets hot Texas jock). I gave it two stars because the love scenes between the main characters are well written and the writing is engaging enough where I did not throw the book across the room in disgust at the idiotic plot and subplots.	2001-12-14
US	51318728	R28LFQHLZBN22V	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sequel is better than the original	The Marriage Lesson is the sequel to the Husband List.  In The Marriage Lesson, Marianne and Thomas, sister and brother to Richard and Gillian (the male and female protagonists of the original book), are thrown together. Thomas is left holding the debut bag for Marianne and her 2 younger sisters when his parents leave England to visit Richard and Gillian in America.    Thomas originally wants to marry Marianne (he cannot even remember her name at the outset of the book and calls her &quot;Merry something&quot;) and her sisters off asap.  To that end he attempts to persuade a friend to &quot;take&quot; Marianne off his hands and subsequently sends notes to the same effect, complete with dowry information, to the dullest, most respectable bachelors in the ton. Of course between the time he does that and the sisters' come-out ball, he begins to fall in love with Marianne. Meanwhile Marianne longs for adventure, travel and to meet a swashbuckling hero and therefore has no interest in accepting the dull suitors more interested in her dowry than herself. In this book, the author does a far better job of developing the characters' personalities than in the original book. Each has their own believable quirks and irrationalities; Thomas' excruciatingly bad poetry sets him apart from the typical Regency rake characters. The use of Marianne's serialized newspaper story as a slightly fictionalized account of her own life is a nice prelude to each chapter and proves that she does in fact have talent.  Even the love scenes are better written in this book, although again I will quibble with the casual attitude toward unmarried sex and its potential repercussions which would not have been typical for the time period. As a former bridal fitter I was slightly annoyed by the ease with which Thomas is able to pull down Marianne's low cut bodice on the balcony of her mansion during her come-out ball (no pun intended): if the garments of this period were properly fitted, it would have been nearly impossible to pull them down unless the neckline were cut almost to the nipple. And would he have really done this in a house literally swarming with guests and servants, any of whom could have walked onto the balcony at any time, thereby forcing them to marry immediately?  There is no indication that this was his unspoken intent and the author does not do a sufficient job of convincing us that they were THAT swept away by passion. These are small quibbles, and I would recommend this book as a good read.	2001-12-13
US	51318728	R2NKY198I41NWH	0380806312	899001105	The Husband List	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Fun, but perfunctory	While this is not Alexander's best book, it is a good read if you are stuck home with a miserable cold as I was the day I read it. The widow Gillian (daughter of a duke) wants to marry before her 30th birthday, 2 months away, in order to inherit a sizable fortune and not be dependent upon her family's largesse.  To that end and with the help of her 2 best friends (male) she draws up a list of eligible nobleman and after one meeting decides on Lord Richard Shelton and quickly proposes marriage to him. She wants a marriage in name only out of loyalty to her deceased husband, he wants a real marriage (with sex and children). Unbenownst to art-lover Gillian (but known to her brother, Richard's best friend), Richard is financing his estates and family by oil painting under an assumed French name. Richard decides to masquerade as that painter (i.e. himself) in order to get close to Gillian and find out what she truly thinks of himself (Richard). Following this? Well, it all comes out in the wash.  The by-play between the characters and witty dialogue was great fun and I especially enjoyed the arguments between Gillian and Richard and the scenes in which Richard is masquerading as himself.  The plot is a little weak, but suspend your disbelief and enjoy it.  A major flaw are the love scenes, which are perfunctory and routine.  There are also some anachronisms that point out flaws -- Richard responds to Gillian's French conversation with a &quot;Huh?&quot; -- not a phrase used during the Regency period.  Also -- wouldn't he have known at least school-room French given the standard education for the nobility at this time? Another anachronism is the main characers' approach to their sexual behavior -- it was far more appropriate to a contemporary romance than a Regency period book. Although I know widows had much more license in their sexual behavior than single women, Gillian had married her childhood sweetheart at a young age and had never had a relationship since his death.  Therefore it seemed unlikely to me that she would have sex so quickly in their relationship-- without any real angst or fear of the repercussions. Also, given the fact that the nobility in Britain at this time numbered approx. 1200 and if Richard is her brother's best friend, wouldn't Gillian and Richard have met at least one time in the previous few years (aside from a chance meeting a decade ago in her season as a deb)? It is highly unlikely that Gillian would have had 2 best friends who are male in this period -- the societal mores and customs would have dictated against it. The followup book is The Marriage Lesson, in which the secondary characters from this book are the hero and heroine.	2001-12-12
US	51318728	R22K1X10YWV14G	0446605840	243380720	Waiting for You	Books	3	46	49	N	N	Good, but sequel is better	Waiting for You is missing one of Michaels' main ingredients -- sparkling, witty dialogue which creates character development.  The 2 main characters are Jack and Meredith who grow up together as the son and ward respectively of an abusive, neglectful father (who manages to construct a Machiavellian plot while being a perpetual drunkard and then suffering from syphillis.  Yes, this is a bit hard to believe.) The plot is largely constructed through prose and attempts too much -- the story of the main characters'lives from the ages of 7 and 6 months, the addition of 2 incessently-quoting Shakespearean actors turned nursemaids who then become interfering ghosts, an American Indian friend of Jack's from his 5 year financial-empire building foray into the New World (which is never explicated), a nefarious estate manager, and a secondary character, Kipp, who is in love with Meredith. Michaels needed to edit this book down to the main ingredients, begin it when Jack and Merry are 22 and 17 respectively when the story really begins and construct dialogue to keep the story moving rather than relying on descriptive prose and an excess of tertiary characters. At the end of this book, I did not feel that I knew the characters very well, though I had read a description of much of their lives.  This book's secondary character, Kipp, is the main charcter of the sequel, Someone to Love. Even in Waiting to Love, Kipp seems to be the most interesting character. The sequel, therefore, is the much better book: the dialogue is a joy to read, Kipp becomes more complex and yet clear as the story evolves, and even though we are reading a Regency it all seems believable.  Buy Someone to Love and read Waiting for You only to learn about Kipp before that book begins.	2001-12-05
US	51318728	R1SUJJ8U2L4NO8	0446605859	96779815	Someone to Love	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sparkles but sticks to your ribs	This book is a sequel to Michaels' Waiting for You, in which our protagonist Kipp is only a secondary character (but who, IMO, leaps off the page as the most interesting character in the book). Waiting for Love is far inferior and should be read only to meet Kipp in a &quot;prequel&quot;. Someone to Love is successful because the author brings the characters to life through witty dialogue and uses fast-paced plotting, interesting secondary characters who are not so numerous or complicated as to distract from the main plot, uses a female lead who is neither beautiful nor extremely young and creates wonderful love scenes between a man and woman neither of whom are virgins. Even though the book reads quickly, after you put it down the story and characters (especially Kipp) will stick with you long after and you will want to reread the story again and again. I almost did not pick up Someone to Love because I was looking for an historical or regency on that day and the cover art made me think it was one of the newer contemporary romances. I am glad I saw Kasey Michaels name and decided to read it and happily found that my favorite character from Waiting for You had his own story. (My only quibble and it is a minor one, is that Kipp is clearly based on Kit from Secrets of the Heart, a much earlier book.  However, you would not know this if you had not read Waiting for You.  Moreover, since Secrets of the Heart and Kit are my favorite Michaels book and character, respectively, I don't mind &quot;meeting&quot; him again!)	2001-12-05
US	51318728	R1SX8DG43M8L39	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best of the governess series	Christina Dodd is a talented author, whose books I enjoy regularly.  The first book in this series, however, I found somewhat disturbing and was reluctant to try the remainder. The series improved greatly with this, my favorite of the set.  Our hero, Kerrich, is anything but a hero -- he is self-absorbed to the point where he would pretend to adopt an orphan and then discard the orphan once the pretense had served Kerrich's own, shallow, purposes.  To prove the adage, be careful of what you wish, comes into his life his idea of the &quot;perfect&quot; governess for his orphan -- older, very unattractive, and not likely to fall in love with him as &quot;all&quot; women do.  Not only does this perfect governess prove disturbingly attractive TO him, she is sharp-tongued and not deferential AND she adopts the wrong type of orphan who proves to appeal to Kerrich's well-hidden sense of compassion. I won't say anymore about the plot because I don't want to spoil the story for you. In contrast to some of Dodd's books (esp. the first in the series), the male hero does not feel the need to make the heroine into a shadow of himself or be degrading to her.  This book is a study in the development of Kerrich's character from a shallow, superficial skimmer through life to someone who is surprised by his own depth and capability for love -- not only of the heroine but of the orphan he had intended to only pretend to adopt. The author tell a compelling and somwhat unusual story and impressively manages to do so with witty dialogue that develop the characters and with a fast paced plot similar to the best of Kasey Michaels.  Definitely a keeper.	2001-12-05
US	51318728	R1YCGQBGLUHW3U	0446605832	322868217	Come Near Me	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Kasey Michaels stumbles on this tale	I normally love Kasey Michaels and several of her books are in my &quot;keeper&quot; romance collection. I admire her ability to construct a story, often largely through witty dialogue, that moves quickly and enjoyably. She is able to rapidly sketch out characters who become real and believable. I also enjoy stories with supernatural characters, such as ghosts and fairy godmothers who are deus ex machina types.  Therefore, Michaels' books are often among my favorites, but this book would not be included among them. This book has far less of Michaels' renowned dialogue and humor.  Most importantly, it was impossible for me to perform the necessary suspension of disbelief to buy into the story of the devil interfering in the &quot;perfect&quot;love of the main couple.  I also found the &quot;flashback&quot; device annoying and ineffective. I ended up skimming through the last 1/2 of the book to get to the end just to finish it, although I should have saved my time and just stopped at the halfway point.	2001-12-05
US	51318728	R2UR35I07HYKGF	0449002551	983267952	Heartthrob	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	One of the best contemporary romances IMO	I originally borrowed this book from the library and after taking it out again 2 more times, went out and bought a copy --  for this book is definitely a keeper.  The author creates a believable story from a fantasy -- a relationship with a celebrity once voted &quot;sexiest man alive.&quot;  From the fantasy any woman might have about such a man, Brockmann weaves a poignant, funny, and ultimately credible plot with well-developed characters, good love scenes, and a point of view which does not hit you over the head -- which is the damage done to us by our families and the self-destructive paths we pursue.  The male protagonist -- Jericho-- is so well written that even after you finish the book you can remember his thought processes and feelings as described.  This is especially true in such scenes as the one is which his bodyguard handcuffs him to a bed and then leaves him -- the anger and anguish and embarassment just flow off the page, as do his feelings for the heroine. The secondary characters are also well fleshed and contribute to the main story line. Although I generally prefer romances with a lot of humor, this book has stayed in my own library when many humorous romances have gone to the trading pile. This book is a fine example of the writer's craft and is not to be missed.	2001-11-19
US	51318728	R1NEDJ6BAHRORZ	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A realistic romance?	I enjoyed this romance because it was more realistic than most, had good character development and left you wondering about the characters' lives after the book ended.  The heroine was not the typical &quot;young miss&quot; of a teenager who somehow manages to enthrall a much older gentleman, but rather a mature woman still seeking her place in life. Even after their marriage (my only caveat is that most of us like some details on the wedding itself, dear authors!), the couple still struggles to come to terms with each other.  It was enjoyable to have an historical heroine with a career for a change. You can read about Jane's niece Adorna and her son in Dodd's Move Heaven and Earth, which only makes one want to know more about Adorna.	2001-11-19
US	51318728	RI4BDKZA8Z5I5	0380800209	147811921	Her Man Friday	Books	3	8	8	N	N	What is it with IQ?	Elizabeth Bevarly seems to be slightly obsessed with IQ. In a previous book of hers, Beauty and the Brain (Silhouette Desire), the plot device is also the hero's lack of respect for the heroine due to her seemingly lower intelligence.  Interestingly, that book of less than 200 pages does a much better job of character development and plotting than this book of almost double the length.  In Her Man Friday, everyone knows and cares about each other's IQ.  Do you know your IQ? I don't and I don't know anyone who does and I have never even had a conversation about it. Do you care about anyone else's IQ and do you know anyone who cares? Probably  not, so it's a little difficult to identify with the characters.  The story is fun, but it seems like the author threw the kitchen sink at the plot -- illegitimate genius daughter, bizarre sister (what is her story anyway?), channeling mother, hidden CEO, PIs, pseduo-gangster friends, kitchen sink... ALso it seems that Schuyler really is the main character --he's certainly more interesting -- although the main character is supposed to be Lily. I think Ms. Bevarly could have used some sound editing on this one, asking such questions as, &quot;What's up with the IQ business? and Whose story is this, anyway?&quot;  I would recommend Beauty and the Brain as the far better book -- the characters take a similar plot device --IQ-- and turn it on its ear.  In that book, the emotions, turning points and characters are natural, poignant and believable, while still being a fun read. I have kept this book in my library, while I was glad I had only borrowed Her Man Friday.  In conclusion -- while you are reading Her Man Friday and suspending disbelief you may enjoy the humor and multiple plot devices -- but after you are done, you realize the contrivances and obsession with IQ do not make this a keeper.	2001-11-16
US	51318728	R338W9NNG6IM3E	0061081523	265480506	Move Heaven and Earth (Harper Monogram)	Books	3	42	44	N	N	Great and then it fizzles	I usually love Christina Dodd's books as her stories are interesting and the characters are well-developed. However, 2 of her books I recently read have similar plot devices that I feel torpedo the story. In the case of Heaven and Earth I loved the story of Sylvan and Rand -- she had been hired by Rand's brother(the duke of something or other) to help rehabilitate Rand after the Battle of Waterloo had left him paralyzed.  As the daughter of a wealthy merchant and a field nurse at Waterloo, Sylvan found herself ostracized. When she arrives at the ducal estate, there are ghosts (for a gothic touch), a misogynistic minster, and attacks on the family's attempt to begin the Industrial Revolution in the local village.  Sylvan is a bold, sardonic character and one is in full sympathy. Then she and Rand marry and in order to persuade her to go to London for her own safety he insults her gravely and deeply in the way that only a lover could and she duly flees.  This is the moment the book falls apart for me and continues to fall apart nearly to the very end -- especially when Rand goes to London to retrieve her, he assumes that she will have figured out he was &quot;just joking&quot; -- and that it was all a ruse.  And immediately after retrieving her they have sex in the carriage. Honestly.  This plot is similar to Rules of Surrender, in my opinion, when the &quot;hero&quot; degrades the woman and causes a personality change to make her do something &quot;for her own good&quot;. I don't enjoy this type of &quot;romance&quot; and was especially disappointed after the first 1/2 was so great.	2001-11-16
US	51318728	R29T4N1NQAJSLV	0373263163	516825669	Death At The Table	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Annoying blast from the past	I was immediately repelled by the first pages of this book, in which the  soon-to-be mother-in-law of the heroine, Darina, endlessly denigrates  her  exciting excursion into a TV cooking show.  Is it just me, or do authors  choose to place far too many female lead  characters in modern fiction in  toxic family situations in which they are abused or mistreated(emotionally  or physically)? In the mystery genre, I think of Mary Daheim's Judith  McGonigle Flynn series in which the mother regularly refers to the heroine  as an &quot;idiot&quot; or &quot;stupid&quot;, etc.  or any number of other  series in which the mother/mother-in-law/ husband/children/whoever treat  the woman and her goals and thoughts with contempt.  Aside from the fact  that I don't find it enjoyable or cathartic to read this type of  conversational narrative, I find the personality type that would accept  this behavior to be antithetical to the personality type that would solve  mysteries. After all, deductive reasoning requires confidence and solving  mysteries requires aggressive thought and action.  Someone willing to  accept regular denigration is a more passive personality to start and over  time being treated with disrespect diminishes one's confidence.  While the  Diane Mott Davidson series is in part about a former battered wife's  reemergence as a confident woman and sleuth, too many series expect us to  accept the contradictory personality. Death at the Table was also full of  other flaws, including the fact that it was replete with British and  Australian slang that was not full of local flavor, but rather just made  the reader want to skip to the end, as did the poor editing job. Also, is  Britain so far behind the U.S. when it comes to the &quot;battle of the  sexes&quot; (to deliberately use an out-of-date term)?  Isn't the time past  when being called &quot;girl&quot; in a professional capacity and having  male colleagues constantly refer to sexual matters is the norm? Although  theending is a sop to modern mores, if the book is an accurate portrayal  of gender relations in the UK, I'll stay here. Finally, the unveiling of  the murderer (STOP reading here if you don't want any hints) as a  frustrated lesbian was so &quot;retro&quot; as a murder motive that I could  only laugh.  This book, in my opinion, is appropriate for those who want a  blast from the past, when women knew their place and it wasn't solving  mysteries.	2000-09-05
