US	51312340	R2DO9PVXSKJ07Y	1893554740	911872943	The Secret Wars of Judi Bari: A Car Bomb, the Fight for the Redwoods and the End of Earth First!	Books	5	160	172	N	N	Judi, I wish I'd met you...	I had no idea who Judi Bari was when I bought this book largely on the recommendation of other Amazon reviewers.  I was looking for something readable and it certainly hit the spot.  I can also sympathize heavily with the fight to keep 1000-year-old trees from becoming deck siding. <br /> <br />The author does a good job of presenting the complicated character of the woman, both the positive and negative elements.  I felt like I gained a pretty good understanding of Judi Bari and I have to admit that the negative reviews here are quite puzzling.  They seem to be based more on hero worship than an objective reading of the book. <br /> <br />Another thing that I enjoyed about this book was learning more about the life and times of the North Coast communities, so much so that I hope to travel there within the next year to see the Redwoods and meet the people.  The book is quite funny in places and the author does a good job of capturing the paranoia and ego that can cause friction between those devoted to the same passionate cause. <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	51312340	R27UGUATQ98HTM	0895260492	206337612	Legacy: Paying The Price For The Clinton Years	Books	5	29	44	N	N	Only Book You Need to Read about Bill Clinton	A strange thing is happening to Democrats these days.  After losing three straight national elections they no longer want to talk about Bill Clinton.  Republicans, on the other hand, are quite proud of Ronald Reagan and make regular appeals to his legacy.  This is what makes this book highly relevant today. <br /> <br />The legacy of Bill Clinton, it seems, is starting to clarify - along with the realization among Democrats that perhaps the Clinton years were not as good for the Party as had been assumed.  Political junkies on either side of the divide will agree that Rich Lowery does a marvelous job of covering the entire spectrum of Clinton's eight years in office in comprehensive fashion.  Credit is given to the Administration where due and he successfully avoids the tabloid sensationalism (Michael Moore) and intellectual shallowness (Bill O'Reilly) of most other pop political bestsellers.  `Legacy; is heavily footnoted, yet entertaining. <br /> <br />What is the legacy of a man who presided over eight years of \\"peace and prosperity,\\" yet couldn't deliver his own home State to his own Vice President (who, in turn, failed to win his own home State as well)?  As a former Democratic loyalist, I suggest that the party engage in a dose of honest retrospection.  This might prevent embarrassing episodes such as when John Kerry promised (without further explanation) \\"no more `Rwandas'\\" during a campaign debate, even though it was his own Party that turned its back on the genocide. <br /> <br />Is a pile of 800,000 skulls in that distant African nation the legacy of Bill Clinton, the \\"first Black President?\\"  The fact that he refused to prevent the slaughter and took steps to impede the international community from intervention in order to avoid political risk is a shameless stain on both his Presidency and his Party. <br /> <br />Or perhaps another candidate for Clinton's legacy, as Lowry suggests, might be the images of Wall Street executives led away in handcuffs by Bush Justice Department officials, after the excesses of the 1990's came to light and the average investor woke up with a hangover that began before Clinton had left office.   <br /> <br />The smoldering ruins in Manhattan are another possibility that Lowery supports. <br /> <br />It could be the Republican Congress, which has been quite resilient under both Clinton and Bush.  It could be Bush himself, who would not have been the 9/11 President had Democrats asked Clinton to step down when it became evident that he had broken the very act that he signed into law by obstructing justice and lying to everyone from the jury to the public. <br /> <br />Clinton compromised the Democratic Party and nearly every faction that makes up Leftist America, from radical feminists, who excused the worst excesses of sexual harassment, to partisans who remained quiet about the growing wealth gap and an economic boom that paid lasting dividends only to the rich.  Will Democrats ever be able to keep a straight face when they rail about greed, sexual harassment, campaign finance reform, integrity in government or more than a half dozen other issues over which Clinton forced them to exercise the most blatant hypocrisy in the 1990's? <br /> <br />Read the book! <br />	2005-01-16
US	51312340	R2R706F27XBQJX	0805072888	949802239	Elvis in Jerusalem: Post-Zionism and the Americanization of Israel	Books	3	0	6	N	Y	Not much Elvis here...	I was disappointed with this one.  No, I'm not a Graceland junkie, but I did expect at least a modest degree of accuracy from either the sensationalist title or subtitle.  This is actually more of an academic essay that briefly discusses Zionism and its contingencies.  Many different opinions are surveyed by the author, but there are very few \\"man-on-the-street\\" cultural observations and I didn't feel as if I knew any more about the \\"Americanization of Israel\\" after reading than I had before I began. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-23
US	51312340	R1UNRASFG2MVG1	0465018548	632908821	Real Jews: Secular Versus Ultra- Orthodox: The Struggle For Jewish Identity In Israel	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Two Gentile Thumbs Up	This book explores the divide between the Ultra-Orthodox religious Israelis and their secular counterparts in the young nation.  The author leaves no stone unturned in the delivery and the average reader is given enough detail to feel like an expert on the subject by the end of the book.<br /><br />I recommend this book especially to anyone with a monolithic impression of Israel, as most Westerners with an opinion seem to have.  Israeli society is far more complex than most of the world realizes and there is a lot of (some might say self-induced) tension beneath the surface.<br /><br />Israel occupies a prominent place in world opinion.  It is largely hated by Europeans and other Western sophisticates, despite having a very liberal society.  Conversely it is loved by many American Evangelicals and others, who believe that it to be a religious (Biblical) state, despite the open hatred and fear in Israel of its most religious members.<br /><br />This book explains why that fear exists and why, for example, the ultra-religious do not serve in the army.  The author take pains to remain neutral in the debate, while at the same time plunging directly into the fray and asking tough question of both sides.	2004-08-23
US	51312340	RDKTPY4YVVJ6R	0895262002	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth? Why Much of What We Teach About Evolution Is Wrong	Books	5	17	38	N	N	Performs a Community Service	This book does a good job of demonstrating how most of the more famous examples of macro-evolution provided to students over the last century have been largely debunked.  The author does not take a side in the debate, but simply advocates that the theory of evolution be taught both honestly and critically. <br /> <br />As one who came up in the school system 25 years ago, having being taught that evolution was confirmed by several of the \\"icons\\" that were known to be false at the time, I can say that Darwinists do themselves no favors by playing fast and loose with the facts.  The old fallback of compensating for weak evidence with intimidation, while automatically labeling any freethinker on the subject a \\"creationist\\" is wearing thin as well. <br /> <br />I wish that issue were not so polarizing, because it would make for interesting debate in the classroom and, perhaps, attract more young minds to science.  I salute Jonathon Wells for writing an excellent book and hope that he and other open minds are successful in their quest for dialogue.  <br />	2004-08-23
US	51312340	R2Y54KU9944Q08	0813341124	375473211	The Skull Beneath The Skin: Africa After The Cold War	Books	3	6	10	N	Y	Expected Better	My expectations on buying this book were that it contained an up-to-date factual synopsis of sub-Saharan Africa in the aftermath of the Cold War.  Unfortunately it turned out to be a rather dull collection of obscure political snapshots from the early 1990's and before, presented in mind-numbing detail.  It is difficult to work up much of the interest required to follow Huband's desultory meanderings, from 1960's Burundi to 1980's Zaire, which don't seem to have any unifying theme, other than the prosaic anti-Americanism favored by foreign journalists.<br />The book was published just prior to 9/11, when it was fashionable to criticize the U.S. for being overly obsessed with international terrorists (which Huband actually does).  Other mistakes abound, such as claiming that the killing of Pakistani troops proved a non-Islamic motive for Somali opposition to the UN, which would have come as a surprise to the thousands of Muslim soldiers and policemen who lose their lives to such fundamentalists every year in a broad range of countries, including Pakistan.<br />The U.S., which has never colonized a square inch of Africa, is nevertheless criticized for every ill affecting the continent.  As Huband tells it, there is not a single American endeavor that was neither negligent nor malicious.  Even obviously well intentioned efforts, such as the Somali relief operation are deemed misguided, though not because of the corruption and religious bigotry that obviously fueled the resistance, but rather due to the fact that Americans are too arrogant to listen to people like Mark Huband, who would evidently provide splendid leadership if they so deigned.<br />Other than an interesting chapter on French intervention, tacked on as kind of an afterthought, there is nothing that would inspire me to recommend this book.  It comes off as neither current events nor history, but rather just another young and egotistical journalist taking easy potshots at those who had the courage to act without his benefit of hindsight.	2004-04-19
US	51312340	REQ4DB4G4AOO6	1893554589	222786852	Islam Unveiled: Disturbing Questions About the World's Fastest-Growing Faith	Books	5	59	70	N	N	Answers the Tough Questions	The negative reviews of this book are quite puzzling, and seem to be based merely on the principle that Islam should never be subject to critical examination.  In fact, Spencer goes well out of his way to be respectful to Muslims, while at the same time fair to those wondering why the religion seems plagued with the sort of cultural and moral obstacles that make it inconsistent with liberal society.<br />It is not enough to wave the magic wand, as Islam's Western defenders often do, repeat a few mantras like \\"Islam is a religion of peace,\\" and hope that no one dares to raise serious inquiry, no matter how understandable.  How is it, for example, that if Islam is about peace and tolerance, its most ardent followers should be acting in exactly the opposite way - and with the full support of millions?<br />Spencer answers the questions that many of us are [quite justified in] asking by explaining the harsh edge to the theology and how it is quite plausible that those engaging in human rights abuses against unbelievers, women and others may be more in agreement with the Qur'an and Hadiths than their more moderate peers.  If not, then there are many disturbing facts that need explaining away - pretending that they don't exist is simply insufficient.<br />The book does not deserve to be called \\"anti-Muslim.\\"  Spencer makes every effort to leave verses in context and to provide honest comparative analysis.  I was left quite hopeful, in fact, that Islam will be able make the transition that other religions have made in embracing progressive revelation as a means of freedom from a ruthless past.  <br />If you want a better understanding of the Islamic world, read this book!	2003-02-04
US	51312340	R369QPY7FQDH09	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Remember Africa!	Others here have spoken to Timmerman's masterful job of documenting Jesse Jackson's corrupt business dealings in the U.S., and this alone would be worth the price of the book, but there was another series of events detailed by the author that I thought even more significant.<br />The story of Jesse Jackson's foreign policy bungling in West Africa is particularly noteworthy for two reasons.  First and foremost are the number of lives lost because of this man's personal relationship with the brutal dictator, Charles Taylor of Liberia, and the Sierra Leonean rebel leader, Foday Sankoh.  Jackson's insistence that Sankoh be placed in government to oversee the diamond mines was like putting the fox in the henhouse, and the results were devastating for the ordinary Africans who paid the price with lost lives, limbs and dignity.<br />Secondly, this part of the story, as important as it is, was virtually ignored by the American press.  The victims deserve to have their story told - not just the brutality, but how it was made possible by the meddling of an incompetent, self-consumed, egotist who ignored the sufferings of the powerless for the sake of making a little money.	2003-01-20
US	51312340	R3U2ILFI09EBAB	0679744754	26336400	Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001	Books	5	21	34	N	Y	Passionately Objective � Excellent Book!	Reading this book radically changed my perspective on the Middle East and left me much better educated.  The copy that was sent to me was sub-titled \\"1881 - 2001\\" (rather than 1999), and, although it is usually difficult to manage much interest in events that happened in the 1800s, they are important and the book gets more engrossing as it goes along until eventually I couldn't put it down.<br />Nearly every preconception that I had about the Arab-Israeli conflict was challenged.  Since I'm not old enough to remember most of the events covered in the first 300 to 400 pages as they happened, my opinions had been formed by simplistic aphorisms.  For example I believed that Israel was the victim in every regional conflict and that its occupation of the \\"territories\\" occurred extemporaneously.  This was not actually the case, as Morris points out. <br />Overall, the book helped me to better understand current events in the Middle East.  My impression is that the present-day conflict is fed by the unwillingness of the Arabs to accept an Israeli State.  Some have said that granting Palestinians statehood will resolve the problem - and I do think that this is necessary - but it will not end the Islamic violence.  It may, however, provide an incentive for the Palestinian Authority to end its tacit support for terrorism and work instead to combatting the suicidal campaign that has done little more than erode international sympathy and destroy the local economy.	2002-12-14
US	51312340	R266150BVD3AR0	0520217365	257321597	Fault Lines: Journeys into the New South Africa (Perspectives on Southern Africa)	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Well-written, but not exactly as advertised	I originally bought this book because it was published about five years after Apartheid's official demise and promised to be about \\"the New South Africa.\\"  There aren't many stories that come out of that country these days and it is difficult finding real information about the transition to full democracy.  Regretfully, this book adds little to the quest for answers about South Africa's future.<br />The author does a good job of interviewing various segments of South African society, but nearly 75% of the book focuses on Apartheid, which has been effectively dead since 1990.  This book has the same feel as the many dozens of others that were written prior to Mandela's election.  Technically the author is conducting the interviews post-Apartheid, but the reliance is on the old ghosts of the past to excuse tacit failure.<br />Perhaps most frustrating are the slight clues dropped along the way that hint at corruption and crime, two areas most indicative of national direction (especially in Africa), although the author never indulges us with detail.  This is unfortunate because a lot of effort was spent to put together a book that gives precious little insight into whether South Africa will wind up as another Zimbabwe, or if the continent's last great hope will manage to retain its economy and pull up its neighbors as many of us were so hopeful of in 1990.	2002-12-14
US	51312340	RUC92XS79MD0N	0807071242	430547680	Fugitive Days: A Memoir	Books	1	20	37	N	N	Here's an idea... Try telling the truth next time.	Ayers admits that this book relies heavily on imagination, but he doesn't really provide much of an explanation (one assumes that it is tied to self-interest).  The book was published right on the eve of 9-11, but far enough after Oklahoma City to lull the media (in New York, at least) into a false perception that it might still be possible to package the anti-establishment terrorism of the 60's and 70's as tastefully chic.<br />What is most troubling about this book isn't that Ayers or Bernadine Dohrn (his Charles Manson admiring partner) are unrepentant about the violence and property destruction, but that the academic community has been so accepting of both these arguably socio-pathic individuals.  It is difficult to imagine an abortion clinic bomber being invited to join the faculty of any university, yet the same principle applies.<br />Just as Ayers concedes, this book does not provide an honest and complete account of events.  Other than the failure to mention the BLA and the killing of the parents of nine children, the most conspicuous omission is how these two fugitives against the bourgeois system shamelessly used their parent's money and influence to avoid serving time for their crimes after turning themselves in to law enforcement.	2002-10-22
US	51312340	R3RZNLEGURA58R	1586481282	267400619	Our Votes, Our Guns: Robert Mugabe and the Tragedy of Zimbabwe	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Legacy of a Thief	This is an excellent account of Robert Mugabe and his indelible impact on the country of Zimbabwe.  Although the events of the election in March of 2002 were overshadowed by the six-month anniversary of 9/11 (here in the U.S.), those who did manage to catch the news from Africa may be curious about a country that has bucked the modern trend toward democratic rule.<BR> <BR>It is ironic that Robert Mugabe initially achieved political power (and Western support) by appealing to the ideals of democracy, while under his reign Zimbabwe has gone from being a wealthy nation ruled by law to a virtual autocracy now on the brink of a debilitating famine.  <br />The author does an excellent job of showing how personal depravity and public corruption have robbed the hope and future of a generation of wonderful people.	2002-09-13
US	51312340	R4VV73JJCW1IP	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	2	29	47	N	Y	Chronic Complainer Survives Brush with the Poor	Before I read this book, I only knew Barbara Ehrenreich as a loose cannon columnist in The Progressive (her latest offering blames Bush for the 9/11 disaster because he took a vacation seven months earlier).  Now I'll always remember her as a pompous egotist who is more interested in touting her own hip musical tastes and ability to recognize Somolis by accent than in forming sustaining relationships with those outside her class.<br />Taking on unnecessary hardships to benefit others is a noble choice, but Ms. Ehrenreich is no missionary - quite the opposite, in fact.  Her intention is not to give up her own comfortable lifestyle and give to the less fortunate, but rather to temporarily dip her foot into the same pool that the common folk swim in for the purpose of selling a book to support said lifestyle.<br />Perhaps that is why she comes across as so disdainful of the poorer people she encounters, be it their appearance, practices or beliefs.  She describes having to work for managers without teeth, \\"pudgy fourth-grade teachers\\" and \\"large Mexicans\\" (though, of course pointing out that the \\"Anglos\\" are larger - and this from someone who openly anguishes about whether to describe a young woman as Asian-American, Hispanic or both).<br />The obese receive particular criticism for their size and Ehrenreich is careful to tell the reader that she herself is \\"an unusually fit person, with years of weightlifting and aerobics.\\"  Yet she reserves the most venom, it seems, for those who hold religious beliefs, giving the clear impression that she feels these people are beneath her.  This sort of intellectual bigotry fits perfectly with her style of writing, and perhaps the company that she keeps in her \\"real life,\\" but it doesn't enhance her image among those unimpressed by such snobbery.<br />No less than six times, an average of once every thirty-seven pages, does Ehrenreich remind the reader that she has a Ph.D., apparently to distinguish herself from the average people around her, lest we forget.  Yet, even overlooking the fact that she smoked pot days before an expected drug test, the sources that she uses for statistics are highly questionable, academically speaking.  Asking the AFL-CIO to estimate undocumented employer transgressions and getting figures of any kind from the National Coalition for the Homeless, which did nothing to correct Mitch Snyder's gross exaggerations in the 1980's, does nothing to augment credibility.<br />Still, to call Ms Ehrenreich an \\"Alec Baldwin\\" liberal wouldn't be entirely fair.  She's not as wealthy and her research did involve a sort of sacrifice, albeit in small doses and to no one else's benefit, really.  In the end, perhaps she's merely \\"Ebenezer Scrooge\\" material, feeling that the poor are the responsibility of the taxpayers and shouldn't hamper one's personal standard of living.e around her, lest we forget.  Yet, even overlooking the fact that she smoked pot days before an expected drug test, the sources that she uses for statistics are highly questionable, academically speaking.  Asking the AFL-CIO to estimate undocumented employer transgressions and getting figures of any kind from the National Coalition for the Homeless, which did nothing to correct Mitch Snyder's gross exaggerations in the 1980's, does nothing to augment credibility.<br />Still, to call Ms Ehrenreich an \\"Alec Baldwin\\" liberal wouldn't be entirely fair.  She's not as wealthy and her research did involve a sort of sacrifice, albeit in small doses and to no one else's benefit, really.  In the end, perhaps she's merely \\"Ebenezer Scrooge\\" material, feeling that the poor are the responsibility of the taxpayers and shouldn't hamper one's personal standard of living.	2002-08-12
US	51312340	R23A4QRJH30A4R	0842024646	603248923	With Only the Will to Live: Accounts of Americans in Japanese Prison Camps 1941-1945	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Compilation of First-hand Accounts	The researchers who conducted the interviews for this project have done very critical work that may be better appreciated in the decades to come.  Most of the men who survived the Japanese POW camps have since died, and the opportunity to obtain first-hand accounts diminishes greatly as time goes by.<br />All aspects of POW life are presented in a carefully edited compilation of interviews with over 100 former prisoners.  It is a tough, but necessary, read that overwhelms one with the senselessness of Japanese brutality.  I don't think that a better account could possibly exist and I wish that this was required reading for any history curriculum covering the war.<br />Since the 1980's it has become far more popular among some in America to criticize the internment of Japanese-Americans during the war rather than the true barbarity of the Japanese.  A book such as this, relying on first-hand accounts as it does, may curb the revisionists for at least a few more years.	2002-07-29
US	51312340	R2HX0U91RQGVNX	1919874275	508684070	African Tears: The Zimbabwe Land Invasions	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Insider's View of the Farm Invasions	One of the misconceptions that people who have not read this book apparently have is that the Buckle family is \\"reaping what it's sown\\" by having gotten their farm through illegitimate means (ie. colonialism).  This is a very crass attitude grounded in both ignorance and racism.<br />In fact the Buckle family purchased their farm AFTER Zimbabwean independence with the explicit written promise from Mugabe's government that the land would not be targeted for redistribution.  The real story here is how a demagogue like Mugabe, who manufactures racial hatred for his own political gain, can be so disrespectful of the very principles that he espoused to obtain power in the first place.<br />For those who think that the land reform issue is a simple matter of taking from the rich and giving to the poor, it may be quite a shock to learn that the only ones benefiting so far from newly acquired farmland are Mugabe's wealthy political cronies.  Everyone else is on the verge of starvation due to the inevitable collapse of the economic infrastructure following the demise of the rule of law.<br />The rest of the world stood by and watched it happen.  Perhaps someday we'll realize that it's far more humanitarian and cost-efficient to prevent famines before they occur.	2002-06-24
US	51312340	RBG8MJ0P2IGKW	0465006418	914557493	The Graves Are Not Yet Full Race, Tribe And Power In The Heart Of Africa	Books	3	69	91	N	Y	Incomplete Picture of African Conflict	Although I share Berkeley's concern for the people of Africa, in my opinion he is way to eager to prove an initial thesis - that Africa's basic problem is \\"outside\\" influence.  Like many young idealists who care passionately about their cause, Berkeley is highly selective about what is included in the book, although he does make an admirable effort to give targets of his criticism an opportunity to state their case (no small concession).<br />Over one-third of the book - nearly 100 pages - is devoted to Liberia, a tiny country with less than three-tenths of one percent of the continent's population.  The reason for this is that it is simply not chic to criticize the West unless you can find some way of demonizing the U.S. in the process.  This is hard to do in the case of Africa, since the U.S. was never a colonial power there, but Liberia is a country in which the U.S. has had a special interest over the years, which makes it a juicy target.  It doesn't hurt that Liberia's worst problems began just as the Reagan administration was being installed, although connecting the dots becomes a bit of a stretch (Berkeley criticizes the U.S. both for supporting the Doe regime in 1986 and then failing to support the regime three years later).<br />This touches on the main problem with the book, namely that it is a long litany of skin-deep complaints without any exploration of alternatives.  Certainly it is easy to criticize the U.S. for supporting the kleptocratic Zairian dictator Mobutu, but how would the country have been any better without Mobutu?  Zaire would most certainly have fallen under Soviet influence (if not outright anarchy) and, as we see in places like Guinea and Ethiopia, this would not have been any better for the people or the economy.  Failure to hold the line in the Third World would simply have prolonged the Cold War, and the Marxists were far less supportive of human and political rights than was the West. <br />Berkeley does not mention any Communist countries or African disputes that fail to fit the model, such as that between the Shona and Matabele.  His foray into South Africa is an amazing piece of gerrymandering that manages to portray the ANC as a victim of Inkatha aggression.  He accomplishes this by focusing only on the Natal area, an Inkatha stronghold in \\"Zululand.\\"  Tough questions are put to the Inkatha leadership on the violence in their district, yet there is no mention of what was happening in the rest of SA.  ANC atrocities, such as the Shell House and St. James's church massacres, are neatly sanitized from Berkeley's version of events.  One wonders if he ever heard of the Black Consciousness movement and why it no longer exists in SA.<br />Perhaps instead of trying to fit Africa into a politically correct cliché, Berkeley would have done better to challenge his own preconceptions and educate the reader in the process.  There is no harm in providing the total picture, but a dedication to do otherwise, simply for the purpose of influencing the audience, insults those who feel that they can be trusted with the true details of a complex situation.	2002-06-19
US	51312340	R1O9TIW31JZI52	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Fight the Power!	This book is basically in two parts.  The first chronicles Horowitz's fight against the Establishment as he attempts to publicly argue against reparations to black Americans for the 89 years of slavery that their distant ancestors endured in the United States.  The extreme tactics that closed-minded liberals (shouldn't that be an oxymoron?) use to try and silence opinions with which they disagree never ceases to amaze.<br />The second part of the book is a good solid argument against reparations.  Many good points are made - beyond the obvious ones of which most people are already aware.  I believe that in the end logic will prevail over passion and that the reparations movement will be unsuccessful.  Holding people accountable for something that they had no ability to affect sets a very bad precedent and those who create and nurture grievances for their own political gain should be ashamed.	2002-03-13
US	51312340	RKSM13W4F0P19	0688049028	294728177	After the Flood	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Depressing and Utterly Pointless	Although most one-star reviews are written by those who have not read the book, this is unfortunately not the case with me.  I felt compelled to finish this one based on the five dollars that I spent, but it would have been wiser had I just forgotten about the wasted money and gotten drunk instead.  This may be the worst story ever written.  It has no plot or redeeming value and was apparantly written simply for the purpose of depressing the unlucky readers who might stumble on it.<br />Rape, child molestation, and graphic homosexuality run rampant throughout the book.  Every character is an amoralist (as is the author, most likely) so there's no one to sympathize with.  All of humanity is dead by the end of the book anyway, and by that time I found myself wishing that I could join them.	2002-02-19
US	51312340	R2P2IXB1SWZ9HK	0520221524	507659399	Man Is Wolf to Man: Surviving the Gulag	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Absolutely Incredible!	This is one of those rare non-fiction books reading more like a gripping novel that's hard to put down. As with most books, it's best if you save the foreword for last. The second chapter is one of the most depressing accounts that you'll ever come across, but it's worth sticking with the story to the end.<br />The writing and translation is absolutely impeccable. I felt like I personally experienced each of the author's highs and lows in the Gulag as they were related. This is a rare look inside the system that swallowed up so many of the best and brightest people. <br />It is too bad that Hollywood is so obsessed with the dozen or so screenwriters who lost their jobs in 1950's America to the anti-communist investigations because any one of the many films devoted to their plight would have been better served by profiling just a single member of the millions who perished in the Soviet Gulag.	2002-01-30
US	51312340	RHVJD32QKE6KY	0684848236	357972578	Ronald Reagan: How an Ordinary Man Became an Extraordinary Leader	Books	5	3	6	N	N	From a former Mondale/Ferraro campaign worker...	Dinesh D'Souza is a man of integrity and a true scholar.  Few writers have ever put as much effort into research as he did with \\"The End of Racism\\" and \\"Illiberal Education\\".  I think it was on that basis that I bought this book, although I held off for quite a while before reading it.<br />What was most surprising, other than the fact that I enjoyed the book, was how objectively it was written.  Although it is evident that D'Souza has high regard for Reagan, there is no effort made to omit the parts of his personality and history that are unflattering.  D'Souza wants the reader to have a solid, balanced view of the individual who was the real \\"Man of the Decade\\".  This means presenting, and explaining, the total person.<br />I feel that I really do have a grasp, now, of who Reagan was and why he was such a successful leader.	2002-01-04
US	51312340	RWHBQEEOBM3NX	0375405542	790153989	Looking for Lovedu: Days and Nights in Africa	Books	3	10	15	N	Y	Simplified Africa for the Politically Correct	Ann Jones is a terrific writer.  I enjoyed this book, and anyone who goes the length of Africa to satisfy a curiosity inspired by a museum label is definitely enjoying life.<br />Unfortunately \\"Lovedu\\" has the dubious distinction of being one of the most sexist books that I can remember ever reading.  I thought that gender stereotypes went out of fashion in the 1970s, but I guess it's all a matter now of who takes offense.  <br />For much of the book Jones takes a sharply superior tone, as she criticizes anything Western, anything white, anyone male.  It is immediately established that African culture is more advanced than ours (by virtue of being older).  Of course this opinion might carry more weight had she not chosen to overland in a British-made Land Rover with a GPS system rather than, say, a camel or other traditional form of advanced African transportation.<br />In keeping with the theme, she finds fault even in economies that have run well, by African standards (such as the Ivory Coast and Kenya), because they are the most Capitalist.  At the same time she overlooks the abject poverty and political repression enforced on the people in countries that followed an anti-Western economic course (such as Tanzania and Guinea).  In fact she even goes so far as to say that Marxism would have succeeded in Tanzania had it not been for a lack of natural resources - something that no one in Tanzania has believed for 15 years.  Even Nyerere admitted that his system didn't work.<br />Ann Jones knows very well that agricultural and general ecomonic productivity increased in Tanzania after the socialist model was thrown out - yes, even with the same natural resources.  This is reminiscent of the way leftist intellectuals refused to acknowledge the Gulag for so many decades.  Even if her readers don't know the truth about Tanzania, surely they've heard of Hong Kong, a city about the size of a postage stamp that owed its success to capital freedom.<br />Jones is under no obligation to explain why Marxism should have had any better results in Africa than in other parts of the world, characterized as it is by economic disaster and a unilateral absence of democratic freedom.  Neither does she test her politically correct theories of Africa's ills by visiting countries that were never under colonial rule (such as Ethiopia or Liberia) or those that have had hardly a moment's peace since Independence (such as Angola and the Sudan).  Her carefully gerrymandered route across the continent reflects a staunch commitment to the bourgeois viewpoints that may induce nods at a Manhattan wine and cheese party but have done absolutely nothing for the lives of average people living in squalor.<br />Overall, Jones is remarkably unconcerned about the political and economic conditions of present-day Africa.  Indeed, blaming the current conditions of democratic repression and grinding poverty on dead white Europeans becomes more of a stretch with each passing year.  The only African leader that Jones can bring herself to criticize is Mobutu (safely dead by the time the book was finished).  Certainly it must have been a surreal experience, standing quietly in the land of Bokassa and Idi Amin, yet having harsh words only for a Belgian tyrant born three decades before the American Civil War.<br />For those seeking a well-written, one-sided, politically correct and overly romantic adventure in Africa, then this is the book.  You will not gain an understanding of the issues that plague the continent, but you may enjoy the wonderful descriptions of the author's observations both of nature and the people that she encounters - even if wondering what else she may have encountered but chose to omit.	2001-11-08
US	51312340	R1R8EOLJKAHZLU	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	2	27	51	N	N	Still Searching ...	Why are Evolutionists often so slow in catching on to the fact that arrogance, sarcasm and ridicule rarely enhances one's argument?  This book takes it even further, with every topic beginning and ending with a condescending psychological analysis of those who reach different conclusions from the author.  In fact an entire chapter is devoted to the subject.  While this may draw high-fives from Miller's like-minded buddies, others may feel it more of a distraction.<br />Strip away the condescension, along with the bold promises to prove evolution and the hearty self-congratulation at having made the case, and the skeptic (who accepts micro-evolution and an older age for the earth) is left with about 15 to 20 pages of science - this is still much better than Dawkins, by the way.<br />For me, the significance of each cited case, though highly exaggerated, never seemed to measure up against the bold claims made for it.  I got the sense that that Miller is trying to prove mountains from molehills and requesting that the reader fill the factual void with imagination.<br />In the interest of limited space and fairness I'll use what I think is Miller's strongest scientific argument as an example.  This would be the Reznick guppy study done over a period of years which showed that body size and sexual maturity increased - to a point - when the fish was removed from it's natural habitat to one with a near absence of predators.<br />According to Miller, the study shows a &quot;Darwin&quot; rate of &quot;10,000 to 10,000,000&quot; times what it needs to be to support macro-evolution.  Although tracking relatively trivial modification, this is still considered a landmark study (and to be fair, Reznick himself makes these same claims as well).<br />When researching the original article, I found the extrapolation seriously flawed.  To begin with, the only traits included in the measure were the only two traits that actually showed any change - and these were interrelated.  These traits also leveled off after a time (males more quickly than females) after which the study was concluded.  Deciding to ignore the thousands of potential changes that didn't happen, and limiting the scope of calculation only to the time period during which change occurs is an almost criminal case of cooking the numbers.<br />Viewed from a different angle, the guppy study may actually have shown limits to genetic alteration.  Not only did the change in age and size proceed only to a certain point, but the traits in question were not that significant, and it wasn't clearly proven that their ranges hadn't been in the population prior to the study.  The measure of genetic variation seemed to be a comparison of the entire DNA library, rather than the nucleotide sequences of the regions directly affecting the observed traits.  All in all, it just wasn't demonstrated that guppies will be anything other than guppies no matter how much time goes by.<br />Why does Miller feel it necessary to misrepresent the numbers in order to make his case?  What is the actual rate of adaptive mutation and does it really support the theory of unguided evolution? <br />Curiously, misrepresentation occurs on other places as well, for example Miller's case against Intelligent Design is based almost exclusively on a very narrow definition which does not allow for speciation - not exactly a mainstream tenet among ID'ers, in fact I don't think I've ever read anyone in the movement who presents that opinion.  Ironically Miller identifies Michael Behe as a leading proponent of Intelligent Design, but also cites Behe's reported belief in common descent.  <br />Perhaps the most conspicuous thing about the book is the absence of an &quot;origin-of-life&quot; scenario, much less one that is compelled by the evidence.  This omission is deeply perplexing and unfortunately leads one to dark speculation about the author's own philosophical preconceptions.	2001-04-10
US	51312340	R24GQFHZMRFQVU	0892133252	665634825	The Hidden History of the Human Race (The Condensed Edition of Forbidden Archeology)	Books	5	165	177	N	N	Thorough, Couragous and Balanced	Cremo and Thompson have done a tremendous job of exposing the high degree of subjectivity that is involved in screening and evaluating evidence of Homo Sapien presence and lineage.  The open-minded nature of their approach is unusually refreshing in a field typically defined by hard opinions and condescension.<br />The authors exhibit tremendous courage in including all reports from the past two centuries that can be considered credible based on eye-witness accounts.  When it exists, they also present contrary opinion.  Rigid conclusions are generally avoided and the readers are left to decide for themselves how to interpret the evidence.<br />Criticism of this book ironically follows the same sort of strategy that the authors discredit - namely that full attention is given to the weakest evidence, while the stronger is ignored.<br />In the past science has always made its most embarrassing mistakes after decades, or centuries, of strict adherence to theoretical preconceptions.  The last 50 years of shuffling human ancestors in and out of the family tree (while general textbooks give no evidence of the controversy) is proof in and of itself that we should always try and remain humble to the possibility of our being wrong.  It's called open-mindedness and it's a common characteristic of every great scientist.	2000-11-25
US	51312340	R713OS5IB80EY	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	2	25	65	N	N	Readable - but a Poor Substitute for Science	It is not hard to figure out why Richard Dawkins is none too popular  outside of his own narrow circle of devoted fanatics.  He has a very  condescending way of explaining that great thinkers, such as Sir Fred Hoyle  or Stephen Jay Gould, are ignorant of such simple concepts - and these are  just the folks on his side of the debate!<br />I read this book looking for  positive evidence of evolution.  I was disappointed to find that Dawkins  bases his arguments almost entirely on conjecture.  Hypothetical  green-bearded men take the place of real fossils in this book and natural  selection is said to be &quot;proven&quot; with super-glue and feathers.   With such little to go on, I frankly came to wonder how it is that Dawkins  himself believes in evolution.  Perhaps he has a philosophical  motivation.<br />Oddly Dawkins devotes much of this book to &quot;random&quot;  computer-generated drawings, in an effort to show that what may appear to  be a design (ie. an organism) could instead be the product of non-design.   These two-dimensional images, which he calls &quot;biomorphs&quot;, do seem  to catch the eye - until one realizes that the only thing about them that  resembles design is symmetry.  Use a bookmark to cover half of each image  and what is left is the tangled mess of lines that one would expect from a  random drawing.<br />Dawkins even mitigates his own argument by admitting that  he programmed symmetry into the application specifically so that the images  might resemble animals.  In other words, the only biomorph attribute that  might resemble design is itself a product of design.  Now if the bits and  bytes of the computer code were randomly generated then we've got something  to talk about, but of course this is not the case.<br />Even if he were to  succeed in demonstrating order out of non-order, the debate in biology is  really about information - which has never been shown to be a product of  non-intelligent forces.<br />Telling perhaps, is the chapter that Dawkins  devotes to self-replicating RNA, the product of small replicators joining  into larger ones (at least in his imagination).  It is highly suspicious  that he leaves it to the reader to find out from other sources that  self-replicating RNA has never been found in nature, nor has it been built  in the laboratory (via intelligent design).  What is it then that compels a  person's belief in the existence and self-assembly of this sequence?	2000-08-15
US	51312340	RFV411TILWWX8	0801056772	697760281	Bones of Contention: A Creationist Assessment of the Human Fossils	Books	4	178	212	N	Y	Interesting and Enjoyable	I have to admit that I almost didn't bother to read this book because it has the word \\"Creationist\\" in the title.  Fortunately I realized my own petty reasoning and bought the book, title and all.<br />I think that it is  always healthy to have two perspectives on every issue, especially one as  emotionally charged as the Evolution debate.  The author does a good job of  presenting an alternative interpretation of the different hominid fossils.   It is evident that he has devoted a lot of time into achieving expertise in  this field of study.  The chronological charts that he pulls together with  statistics are hard to find anywhere else.<br />The first two hundred pages  make the book well worth the read.  It is actually refreshing to hear  someone speak candidly about their religious beliefs when discussing the  subject of Evolution and it yields that kind of credibility that one does  not sense when reading Gould or Dawkins, who attempt to manipulate the  reader into religious conclusions while feigning scientific  objectivity.<br />Ironically the author appears much kinder to evolutionists  than to some of his fellow creationists, who get skewered in the last 50  pages or so of infighting.  This section didn't interest me much - I would  have preferred to learn more about the Australopithecus fossils.<br />It is  interesting how paleontologists can write so confidently about their  interpretation of the hominid fossils and yet contradict each other,  usually unbeknownst to the casual reader.  A book like this exposes the  contradictions and corrections, helping the student obtain a greater  perspective.	2000-03-12
US	51312340	R2S7E9L7JBIBU6	0761509429	412020872	The Race Card: White Guilt, Black Resentment, and the Assault on Truth and Justice	Books	5	55	63	N	N	Excellent Read	On December 29, 1992 one of the most brutal racially motivated killings since the era of lynching occurred in South Carolina.  The victim was Melissa McLauchlin, a young woman who was kidnapped, raped, violently  tortured and then dumped on a highway in an effort to avenge \\"400 years of  oppression\\".<br />I heard about the crime quite by accident while passing  through the area at just the right time.  For years I thought that no one  else would remember this woman's death as it was blatantly ignored by the  national media.  It was quite a surprise to open this book and find an  entire chapter largely devoted to the circumstances surrounding the  killing.  <br />This alone would justify reading the book, which also focuses  on other \\"politically incorrect\\" subject matter relating to race.  The  editors do a commendable job of presenting challenges to the moral  character and direction of the modern civil rights movement while  disallowing racist implications and language.	2000-02-15
US	51312340	R3ON7TYITIZAHA	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	You DON'T have to be a Creationist to enjoy the book	This is a bold and thoughtful book that takes the debate over evolution down to a whole new level.<br />For the most part the battle has been fought over general biological functions or parts (ie. breathing or lungs), but  Behe points out that all these systems depend in turn on smaller, more  complex, sub-systems which are even more difficult to account for - from a  Darwinist perspective - because they are irrecducible.<br />Evolutionists will  not like the fact that Behe (an evolutionist himself) not only points out  the total inadequacy of Darwinism at the molecular level, but explains it  in a way that the laity can understand.<br />Some Creationists will not like  the fact that Behe holds open the possibility that biological design at one  level does not necessarily mean that unguided evolution could not have  occurred at a different level (though Paleontology is not his field).<br />I  would highly recommend this book, along with Denton's &quot;Evolution: A  Theory in Crisis&quot; as two excellent examples of honest inquiry into  modern scientific dogma.  Let's hope that the dialogue over this issue  becomes more open-minded!	1999-12-17
US	51312340	R1RP0F2OXCBB7G	091756152X	760519181	Evolution: A Theory In Crisis	Books	5	51	74	N	N	Fantastic!	It's been at least seven years since I read the first edition of this book, but I remain impressed by the persuasiveness of Denton's argument.  <br />Like some of the other reviewers, I have a strong feeling that the  people who have given this book bad reviews have never read it.  I gather  this not from how they have ranked it, but rather what they've  written.<br />This is too bad because Denton provides a good opportunity for  building honest, open-minded dialogue between the two opposing camps in the  evolution debate.  The book is argumentative, but it is also educational (I  especially enjoyed learning about the feather - the complexities of which I  was previously unaware).<br />I would also recommend Behe's &quot;Darwin's  Black Box&quot; as an excellent complementary read, since it explores the  relevance of molecular biology to this subject in greater detail.	1999-12-02
US	51312340	R1JKQ5012CM6HX	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	5	17	28	N	N	Logical and Easy to Understand	The title is deceptive.  It is not Darwin on trial, but rather Darwinism.  After a massive 140-year hunt for Evolution's fossil evidence the record looks about the same as it did in Darwin's day - which, as Darwin himself  said at the time, was not enough to substantiate the theory.<br />This is a  good starter book for anyone who is curious as to why many  non-Evolutionists believe the way they do.  <br />Darwinists have an interest  in perpetuating the myth that opposition to the theory comes from religious  yahoos rather than science itself.  They are also known to pretend that  science is beyond the comprehension of the general public (ie lawyers).   This helps them to control the debate over Evolution through ridicule and  intimidation.<br />The book should do well for those without a heavy science  background.  It is logical and easy to understand.  Behe's &quot;Darwin's  Black Box&quot; and Denton's &quot;Evolution: A Theory in Crises&quot; are  pretty good chasers (neither author is a Biblical Creationist).	1999-11-23
US	51312340	R20X2UE843AUF4	046504784X	351220943	Myths Of Rich And Poor: Why We're Better Off Than We Think	Books	5	24	39	N	N	A Fresh Approach	Although trumpeting the growing gap between the wealthy and the (relative) poor in a booming economy has gone out of fashion for Liberals (at least as long as they maintain the White House), this book goes a long way toward  disputing the notion that the poor are actually getting poorer.<br />The  authors start with a bang in demonstrating that the actual poverty rate,  when measured against consumption (rather than income), is only 2%.  The  rest of the book keeps the pace and presents a very healthy defense of free  capitalism.<br />This would be an excellent read for anyone who wants a deeper  understanding of the economy beyond the dour headlines doled out by the  media.	1999-11-05
US	51312340	R11LPWY924M0TB	0312217870	89048913	Africa in Chaos	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Pro-Africa; Pro-Africans	This is a devestating indictment of the small percentage of the African population that keeps the rest uneducated and in poverty.  Yet it is  Pro-Africa in that the solutions proposed are from the continent's tribal  past.<br />African-Americans, who want a deeper understanding of what is  happening in Africa today and why it is different from the pre-colonial  past, will appreciate this book.  Others, such as Cynthia McKinney and  Carol Mosley Braun, who would prefer to rub shoulders with the same leaders  who are causing so much harm to their countries, will feel better if they  continue to keep their head in the sand.	1999-11-01
US	51312340	R10YW9LB34LUT7	1859841678	669550513	The Way the Wind Blew: A History of the Weather Underground (Haymarket Series)	Books	4	17	40	N	Y	Author deserves credit	I would very strongly suggest reading Horowitz and Collier's &quot;Destructive Generation&quot; PRIOR to reading THIS book. If, afterwards, you still have an interest in Weather Underground then this is  the next logical reading.<br />Horowitz and Collier provide background color  to this authors detail of the movement.  There are still some missing links  (ie. the damage and reaction to the bombings of the US Capitol) that  neither book includes.<br />Although I believe that the author is objective  about the specific subject of the book, (Weather Underground), he allows  his anti-war background to prejudice other areas of discussion.  For  example, if all you knew about those days was what is presented in the  book, you would never think that even a single police officer had been  killed by a leftist radical in the entire two decades of the 1960s and  70s.<br />However the author does state, very confidently, that George Jackson  (a Black Panther facing trial for killing a prison guard) was  &quot;murdered&quot;.  In fact George Jackson was running out of a prison  blockhouse with a pistol in his hand firing wildly at guards that he knew  were in place to put down the insurrection (Jackson had just slit the  throats of 2 guards and 3 other inmates after forcing them into a cell at  gunpoint). <br />Also, according to the author, the NLF (Viet Cong) were  fighting for Vietnam's &quot;self-determination&quot;, which is a curious  way of referring to a political minority's effort to overthrow  democracy.<br />Omitting contrary facts and providing deceptive descriptions  of other events in the 60's and 70's wins this author no credibility  contest (almost the rule, it seems, with radical self-critique), but as I  stated, I do feel that he has sought to be objective on the subject of  Weather Underground.  For those interested in the group's activities, this  is a must read.  The author deserves solid credit for documenting a side to  the Left that many of his peers would rather pretend didn't exist.	1999-09-13
US	51312340	R36SOBDCNYQ8V6	0201483416	650752279	Shadow Of The Panther: Huey Newton And The Price Of Black Power In America	Books	4	14	20	N	N	The best ever on the Panthers	This is an excellent book that occupies an important niche not found in most of the autobiographies of those involved in the Black Panther movement - namely objectivity.<br />It is always refreshing to see an author present an  honest, unbiased account of a controversial issue.  This is a book very  much worth reading.<br />I have only two problems with what Pearson has  written.  The first is that bare mention is made of the murder of Alex  Rackley.  (Pearson does note that his book was not intended to be  comprehensive).<br />The second issue that I have with the author concerns his  assumption that Geronimo Pratt's time in prison was &quot;unjustified&quot;  (Pratt was still serving time when the book was first published).  Although  it is true that the main witness against Pratt was an informant, it is also  true that Pratt's car and handgun were used in the assault that killed the  Santa Monica school teacher - and that Pratt was identified as the shooter  by the victim's husband, who was wounded in the attack.<br />Pratt was  released from prison on a technicality. That does not mean that he is  innocent.<br />Although I had read other accounts of the Black Panthers over  the years, none had left me with such a strong impression of the wasted  potential of Huey Newton's life.  Pearson does a terrific job in giving the  reader some sense of what wonderful things the movement and the man were  capable of accomplishing.	1999-09-01
