US	51320643	R27WRXQ0YK2F1Q	0345450191	721230073	Conviction	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	OUTSTANDING	Payton and Rennel Price, brothers are charged with, convicted and sentenced to die for the horrendous sexual assault and murder of a 9 year old child. Fifteen years later, Teresa Paget and family are assigned the task of preventing the state from execution by lethal injection. <br /> <br />During the initial 54 days left to spare him his life, Paget uncovers mutliple issues which, taken as a whole, could very well prove his innocence. As a matter of fact, the state prosecutor responsible for prosecuting the matter on appeal concedes that if the information developed 15 years after the initial conviction had been known at the time of the original trial, the state would not have been able to get a conviction. <br /> <br />Therein lies the problem. The issues of politics play an ever important role in the fate of Rennell. Although the end was somewhat predictable, it in no way blunts to impact of what truly happens. The balance of the rights of victims vs. the rights of the accused coupled with politics, elections, favors etc., are at the crux of this fictional novel. <br />  <br />However, to view this book as merely a work of fiction, a good story,tense courtroom drama and nothing more would be to read the novel in a vacuum. No matter where one stands on the very emotional and complicated issue of state sanctioned executions, what Mr. Patterson addresses are the consequences of an imperfect system of criminal justice and the ultimate price to be paid in an imperfect system. In an imperfect system whether guilty or innocent, someone will always lose but the questions is,how much?	2005-01-30
US	51320643	R2A6WMYKMVJVGZ	0060555653	965699611	The Polished Hoe	Books	2	5	7	N	N	I thought it was just me	Got halfway through this book (and I mean page 236) and said enough!!!  Although I think the history is a good one and the story could have been a good one, the rambling narrative, skipping from past to present, skipping between the dialogue of one character to the other, going from the thought of one person to that of another etc., made this story very difficult to read.  In essence, it was more work than enjoyment.	2004-11-08
US	51320643	RUAT66M0IDKSG	0765309467	810636083	The Exile	Books	5	7	7	N	N	702 Page "PAGE-TURNER"	This novel is a page turner until the very last word on page 702. <br />John Barron, the main character is a police officer with an elite branch of the LAPD called the '5-2'.  Once a member, a member for life or more appropriately, till death do us part. The 5-2 is a vigilante unit and John Barron isn't quite the vigilante type. <br /> <br />Enter Raymond Thorpe who kills all across the country and then ends up on a train and in LA. He is captured, then escapes, kills a bunch of people and all the while, the wonder is \\"who is Raymond Thorpe and what does he want\\". The 5-2 squad finally captures Thorpe and Barron helps him escape his ultimate \\"capture\\" by the 5-2. Unfortunately, Thorpe is captured again and is ultimately killed..or was he. <br /> <br />Barron must leave the country, obtain a new identity (enter John Barron aka Nicholas Marten) and start anew in Europe.  After all, the LAPD doesn't forgive and sure isn't about to forget.  Life in Europe progresses nicely for a moment but John just can't let go of the Raymond thing. Murders start to happen in Europe which are eeirly familiar.  John's best friend is murdered and John begins to think..\\"is Raymond really dead?\\" <br /> <br />The balance of the story involves politics, a constitutional monarchy, a madman with a royal bloodline, a scorned woman seeking revenge and the future of a country. <br /> <br />This is truly a gripping, page turning, incredibly well written novel which WILL NOT disappoint.	2004-09-01
US	51320643	R2849G9ELE6SCE	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	BLOWS YOU AWAY	I would give this novel 10 stars if I could.  2 lives converge on a path which leads to betrayal, tolerance, understanding, compassion, integrity and finally redemption.  The raw emotion contained on these pages and conveyed by the author are breathtaking and heartbreaking. This story pulls at your heart and doesn't let go until long after you have turned the last page.  Every novel I have read since, has paled in comparison.	2004-08-15
US	51320643	R3HMI0W1L9R6IB	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	BLIND SIDED	Lehane's latest novel proves why he is a master storyteller. There are good authors and great authors but very few, like Lehane, are brilliant.  Lehane manages to creatively and brilliantly weave this story in such a way that the reader is blindsided and completely knocked off balance. He did a wonderful job of it in Mystic River and has done a masterful and utterly amazing job of it in Shutter Island. At the conclusion of this novel, the reader might start to question his/her own sanity.	2003-04-23
US	51320643	R2FPEW4SB5MSYO	0399149791	649155077	Life Sentence	Books	5	17	21	N	N	WOW, FANTASTIC LEGAL THRILLER	Ellis' second novel is better than his first, and that was good.  The novel is narrated by Jon Soliday, a longtime friend and now employee of Senator Grant Tully, son of retired Senator Tully.  Twenty years ago in 1979, when he and Grant Tully were kids, they along with other juveniles (young men) were involved in a situation where a woman ended up dead.<br />Although Jon never had any specific recollection of what happened that night (drugs,sex,rock and roll), he becomes the focus of the investigation into the death of Gina Mason.  Lawyers are hired, favors are called in, stories are constructed, magic is worked and the investigation into the death is closed.  However, Jon Soliday never forgets and although he believes that he could not have been involved in her murder, there is so much about that night that he does not remember.<br />Present day, Soliday is helping  Senator Grant Tully with his campaign bid for state governor.  During the course of the campaign, Soliday is framed for the murder of another Tully aid.  Soliday is arrested, charged and faces trial.  He is represented by Bennett Carey who is a friend of sorts but much more. At the conclusion of the \\"trial\\" everyone comes out a loser. <br />It is hard to say more without spoiling this utterly magnificant, detailed and finely constructed piece of fiction. The surprises are endless, the writing is tight, the plot is well thought out and everything flows together in such a way that all the reader can say at the end is WOW!!!	2003-02-27
US	51320643	R1LJVMKG83NO3E	074140916X	673872544	Threads: The Reincarnation of Anne Boleyn	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	INCREDIBLY CREATIVE AND COMPELLING	This novel is exceptionally well written and very thought provoking.  Takes creativity to another dimension. Although the novel begins with the beheading of Queen Anne, the balance of the novel consists of the trials and tribulations of Anne and Henry beginning before the birth of Christ until the early 1970's.  They meet, part, interact, hate, love, are friends, brother and sister, husband and wife etc., and that's BEFORE they encounter each other as King Henry and Anne Boleyn.  This novel makes you think.	2002-12-27
US	51320643	R2FVWUF04G4OOV	0375505679	110874550	Echoes of a Distant Summer: A Novel	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Superb Writing Runs In This Family	This sequel to Standing at the Scratch Line is as good as, if not better than, Standing.. It is superb!!  For those who have read Standing At The Scratch Line, this novel continues with the saga of the Tremain family.  This story picks up with the adult grandson, Jackson,  who has been estranged from his grandfather King Tremain for several years. As King is near death, Jackson flies to Mexico to see his grandfather and leaves with a mission and desire that proves he truly is the grandson of King Tremain, whether he likes it or not. <br />Although this is a lengthy novel, the auhtor uses every word, phrase,page, etc., to draw an in-depth, complete and wonderful picture of who Jackson is, but more importantly the Tremain legacy and past that King has left to his grandson...whether he wants it or not. Although  King is assassinated very early on in the book, through well placed, smooth and poignant flashbacks to the 1950's and 1960's, the reader gets much more insight into King Tremain and his life and legacy. Finally, to sum it up \\"you better ask joe 'cause you sho' don't know\\" what you are missing if you miss out on the chance to read this wonderful novel.	2002-08-20
US	51320643	R6T4CFEJ064E	0345444957	605284938	Growing Up X	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Courageous Woman, Insightful Book	I was pleasantly surprised after reading this novel. The author shares some very personal stories and feelings which at times, made the book difficult to read.  Her description of her relationship with her mother, the only parent she ever knew, was heartwarming.  As a result, the detailed description of her mothers death was heartwrenching. Over and above all else, the author does a beautiful job of describing her life and the challanges she faced in forming her personality and struggling to find her OWN way. This book isn't about her father Malcolm X. This book is about the love, strength, dedication and courage of a mother who raised 6 daughters to carry on the principles of a legacy but not be defined by it.	2002-06-20
US	51320643	R3M1ZEJAEZLVQM	0525946187	503612186	Billy Strobe: A Novel	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	So, So	Although I thought the book started out with a bang,and I enjoyed the diverse characters (loved Mimi D'Angelo) as well as their wit and sense of humor, it fizzled somewhat in the middle and became unrealistic by the end. The courtroom scenes were not particularly realistic or practical.  <br />However, I really enjoyed the family dynamic between Billy, his sister and mother and would like to have seen the author explore that portion of the story a little bit more. In particular, how Billy resolved the revelations concerning his father.<br />I must admit that I was somewhat biased against this book.  Professionally, I am a public defender and have been so employed for the past 13 years. Unfortunately, one of the greatest myths concerning public defender work is that we are somehow incompetent purely and simply because we choose to represent the lowest of the low. <br />As is the case in any profession, there are good public defenders and not so good public defenders.  There are good private attorneys and not so good ones.  Consequently, when I read a novel which perpetuates the myth about public defenders, particularly one written by an attorney, I get somewhat defensive as I know how hard we work and what we endure. <br />Guilt or innocence aside, Darryl's conviction, as portrayed in the novel, was due solely to the incompetence of his public defender. Billy's  reluctance, as portrayed in the book, to request a continuance of Darryl's retrial was based on Billy's fear that the case would end up in the hands of the public defender. <br />In all candor, I'm not quite sure what could be more incompetent than a business lawyer( Billy Strobe) with no trial experience representing a criminal defendant in a murder case. A  case by the way in which the attorney manufacturers and plants evidence.	2002-02-23
US	51320643	RUHQHS46EZGE6	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	5	4	4	N	N	TRUE TO FORM	I had the pleasure of meeting the author at a book signing. At that time, I had never heard of him nor was I familiar with his novels. Although I was somewhat skeptical about reading a novel written about criminal defense tril work written by a civil attorney, I must admit I was pleasantly surprised. This novel should be entitled, &quot;Never a Dull Moment&quot;. Not only did I find the writing superb, the plot was rich with characters who were well defined. Moreover, the author was able to  accurately depict the nuances particular to criminal defense trial work. Since now I know who he is and have read one of his novels, I look forward to more of Mike and Rosie.	2001-08-28
US	51320643	RGR7UCCZQQXS5	0399147845	384174271	What You Owe Me	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Disappointing	I am a huge fan of Ms. Campbell's having read all of her previous novels and I eagerly awaited the release of this novel. <br />Although I thought the basic storyline was good, I felt that there were far too many different characters and too many 'sub-stories'. I would have liked to have seen some of the characters and storylines eliminated (Blair/Porter/Judd..Kent/Peggy/ Jolie..Rachel) as such characters were not central or critical to the main story.  Perhaps this would have allowed the author the opportunity to spend more time developing more emotional aspects of characters such as Asia, Sam and Tavares.<br />I also found the book to be relatively predictable and thus, it lacked the unique quality I have come to appreciate in some of Ms. Campbell's other works. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed Brothers and Sisters, Successful Women, Angry Men, Your Blues Ain't Like Mine and Singing in the Comeback Choir.  In comparison, this novel was extremely disappointing.	2001-08-16
US	51320643	R2HDKR6O28K4FL	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	13	13	N	N	TOUCHING AND VERY WELL WRITTEN	I loved this novel.  Although I speak with my parents and sister quite frequently, it made me stop, pick up the phone, call them and tell them that I love them.  This book makes you stop and think about those things that are truly important in life. I have read all of Ms. McMillan's novels and this is a much different novel than her others.<br />This story is about the Price family which consists of 3 daughters, a son, mother and father.  Viola Price has spent her life raising her children to be the best they can be.  Although each one of her children has their own particular issues, as a mother, she recognizes each ones special talents but more importantly, their special needs. As any mother, she worries about her grown children and hopes the best for them.<br />The novel opens with Viola in the ICU unit of the hospital after she has suffered an asthma attack.  Her thoughts about her family and estranged husband provide the backdrop for the rest of the novel. As she approaches her 55th birthday, she vows not to allow her children to worry her into the grave and also vows to live her life and do the things that make her happy. To that end, she does make some changes in her life.<br />The story also focuses on her relationship with her children and their relationship with each other. Each child is different, each with his/her own dreams and needs. Lewis, the only boy is intellectually the smartest but is having difficulty finding his way.  Paris, the oldest has everything money can by but has a void in her heart. Janelle, the follower, comes to a point where she is called upon to protect herself, stand up for herself and take some measure of control concerning those things which happen in her world.  Finally, the most troubled of characters but most like her mother is Charlotte who is struggling to find her own special place within the family.<br />In the end, Ms. McMillan does an excellant job of making us all realize that we need to take the time and focus on whatis really important so that we are not &quot;A Day Late and a Dollar Short&quot;.  Fantastic novel.	2001-01-22
US	51320643	R22WTT363YZO16	031218008X	766751470	One Thousand White Women: The Journals of May Dodd	Books	5	18	23	N	Y	MOVING DEBUT NOVEL	This is an incredibly moving novel about the life of one May Dodd and her assimilation into the Cheyenne culture.  Although the nivel is fiction, it is based on a true and historical event, the alleged Brides for Indians project.  Apparently in the mid 1800s, there was a request made by members of various Native American tribes that they be given 1000 white women with whom they could live and procreate.  Although the idea was nixed by the federal goverment, this novel proceeds upon the theory that the BFI program was actually implemented.<br />The main character, May Dodd was a woman who was raised with a silver spoon in her mouth and had all of the advantages of the wealthy family.  Unfortunately, she bore 2 children (out of wedlock) and went to live with a man to whom she was not married.  As a result, her family had her committed to an insame asylum.  May Dodd becomes aware ofthis program and decides, along with other &quot;undesireable&quot; women to enroll in the program, live with the &quot;savages&quot; and undertake the responsibility of educating the &quot;heathens&quot; in a manner which would make it easier for the &quot;savages&quot; to assimilate into the white man's culture.<br />However, what follows is an incredibly moving story about acceptance, tolerance, racism, sexism and faith.  The reader is left with the question of &quot;who really educated whom?&quot;  The story is abound with tragic events particularly the mass extinction of a whole group of people. Notwithstanding those tragic events, the reader is left with a sense of knowledge and understanding of the strength of a woman (May Dodd) and the struggles of an entire group of people.  Very good novel.	2001-01-10
US	51320643	R1NYUCWJTYX8F8	0517705893	769908765	An Eighth of August	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	So, So but not Great	I read the authors previous novel 'Only Twice I've Wished For Heaven' and enjoyed it so much that I was eagerly anticipating this novel.  I was however somewhat disappointed. <br />This novel is about the events surrounding a celebration of  the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation which occurs every year in the Midwest.  This story is told from the perspective of several different characters which at times renders the novel difficult to understand.  Although the author takes the time to convey to the reader which character is speaking and the time frame (year) in which they are recounting their story, the novel jumps back and forth between time periods and characters in a manner which is often very confusing.<br />At the beginning of the novel, the reader is introduced to Flossie who pulls a gun on a minister in the middle of a church service.  The reader is made aware that she, Flossie holds the minister responsible for some &quot;un-Christian like&quot; behavior. However it is not until the middle of the book, after much discussion of Flossie and her life after this event ( attempted shooting of the minister), that the reader discovers what that event is. After the reader is made aware of the event, the author incorporates the same opening scene into the novel at a later date and continues the story from that point.<br />The reader also is told that a tragic event occured which resulted in the death of one of the children, EL of one of the characters, (Sweet Alma, Flossie's daughter) and we know that another of the characters (Pepper) feels to blame and feels responsible but by the end of the novel, it is unclear, based on the circumstances of the death, why he feels that way.  The author also tells us that Flossie, El's grandmother feels as if Pepper is to blame for the death.  However, the reason why she holds him responsible is never fully explored. Additionally, the reader is made aware of an incredible rift between Flossie and Sweet Alma however once again, although the basis of the rift was there, the author didn't seem to fully explore the impact that it had on the parties. <br />The story is also told from the perspective of May Ruth, a white English woman who, although a charming character, somehow becomes involved in the festivities and lives with the main family.<br />All in all, although the story could have been a good one, the events and characters jumped too much and too drastically. Once again, although the story surrounded the celebration, it was incredibly difficult, based on the way the novel was written, to understand how the stories told by each character directly fit into the celebration.	2000-11-13
US	51320643	R792PY2TKXNPK	0380805979	515056093	Always	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Enjoyable	I had the pleasure of reading the author's previous novel 'Until' and was eagerly awaiting this novel. I was not disappointed.<br />This is the story of a man on the verge of possible election as the first African American president in the history of the United States.  Election night serves as the backdrop for a review of both his life and his loves and that which is truly important to him.<br />Although the story switched from the present to the past, the author did an exceptional job of making the transition such that the story flowed and the reader was able to smoothly make the transition from present to past along with the characters.  <br />The story itself deals with a virtual triangle between the main character Henry, his wife Leslie and his long ago love Cheryl and how they have come from the past to the present.  On election night as each is watching the election returns, they each share in their own way and in their own words the evolution of their relationship with each other, including the highs and lows.  I thought this novel was very well written and I look forward to the next one.	2000-11-05
US	51320643	R3MJZ671A240LE	0449911004	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Debut Novel	In 292 pages, this novel strikes all human emotions.  This is the story about 2 sisters, Patty Jane and Harriet who grow up in a household with 2 parents, both of whom are alcoholics.  As a result, they are forced to grow up pretty quickly and assume responsibility not only for themselves but also for their parents.<br />Patty Jane is the first to get married to Thor, who is an incredibly handsome man and for a while, they have a very good relationship. Unfortunately, Thor disappears right around the time that Nora is due to deliver their daughter Nora. Not knowing what has happened to him, Patty Jane experiences all of the emotions associated with abandonment by a loved one.  In the meantime, Harriet falls in love with a very unlikely candidate and in her life, all seems good until a tragedy strikes.<br />Both sister's have their share of tragedy with which they must deal with in their lives and their coping mechanisms are as different as they are.  Harriet falls into 'the bottle' and disappears for a while while Patty Jane works hard at her business.<br />In the end, they both fall in love again and are able to build relationships with men they love when Thor re-emerges in a very interesting and surprising manner. The final tragedy is truly a tragedy.  I really enjoyed the epilogue and found it to be very touching. For those who enjoyed &quot;The Bingo Queens of Paradise&quot; and &quot;Fried Green Tomatoes&quot; this is a good read.	2000-11-05
US	51320643	R3B4JCF4X7IUC2	096770300X	380652793	Sin in Soul's Kitchen	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Hot, Hot, HOT	I looked at this novel several times before ordering it and once I did, I was pleasantly surprised.  This was an incredibly enjoyable novel.<br />This is the story about, Thad, a Howard University grad who is caught between what he wants to do with his life and what he is expected to do based on his father's life.  In the end, Thad follows his own path and along with other friends, opens a restaurant, 'Nubian Rhythm Kitchen' which has as it's base theme a place where African American from all walks of life can come and celebrate their culture and history<br />Of course, there are many setbacks, a conniving, obsessive and dangerous girlfriend who ultimately leads to his demise, an overbearing, unaccepting father who ultimately accepts and respects his son for who and what he is, an interesting interaction with a strickingly beautiful yet hard to figure out woman, and the loss of two friends, one through betrayal. <br />I was impressed by the authors portrayal of these young African American college graduates coming together and working hard to accomplish their dream and goals and doing so with a sense of ethnic pride and awareness. Unfortunately in the end, Thad comes full circle in a very interesting manner. This is actually a very good book which I think had been somewhat overlooked.	2000-11-05
US	51320643	R2M2I3T25Z2UZZ	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hang on for the Ride	This novel has all of the makings of a great murder mystery.  2 crude and somewhat unorthodox police officers, the deaths of a father and son, both police officers which are covered up to look like suicides, more dead bodies, a woman with a deep dark secret which ends up ruining her life, a little smattering of the problems gay police officers have on the police force, all culmintating in a tragic and sad ending.  This story gets you going from the beginning and speeds up at the novel progresses.  The writing, story line and characters remind me of a 2000 version of the murder mysteries written by James Elroy a la &quot;LA Confidetial&quot; and &quot;The Black Dahlia&quot;. This is NOT a murder mystery that can be easily solved midway through the book.  The ending comes as a great surprise yet is  sad when the reader looks at 'why she did what she did' (won't spoil it).<br />This is the first novel I have read by this author and I am already planning on getting Ashes to Ashes.  This is a great novel	2000-10-10
US	51320643	RIKGBAMP7DBBJ	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	CHARMING AND HILARIOUS	This  story opens approximately 2 months after Ms. Julia, now a wealthy widow, has buried her beloved husband of 44 years.  He dies of a heart attack in the driveway of their home.  Upon his death, she learns many things, the least of which is that the god fearing, self righteous, judgemental husband had a long standing relationship with a woman from &quot;the other side of the tracks&quot; and fathered a son.  <br />Of course, since the wife is always the last to know, she finds this out when Hazel Marie, too blond, too wrinkled, too much make up, dress too short and heels too high shows up at her doorstep to deliver the son for safekeeping.  After all, the mother, Hazel Marie was not provided for by her son's father but has just been accepted to beauty school and must learn how to frost, tip and glue.<br />This book revolves around what happes when Ms. Julia, this pillar of the community, honest church going woman who is respected by all in her town must deal with the illegitimate son of her deceased husband.  This book is absolutely hilarious.  Ms. Julia definitely does speak her mind to whomever and on whatever topic. Her cast of characters are just as humorous and delightful as Ms. Julia.  This is a truly delightful novel and great fun.	2000-10-02
US	51320643	RQ2BRA15MAUJS	0312202911	620382425	Far From the Tree	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A Mother/Daughter Must Read!	This is a beautifully written story about the relationship between two sisters, Ronnie and Celeste and their relationship with their mother, Odella.  The story opens immediately following the death of the father/husband Will. The central theme of the novel is how at some point in our lives, we all try to hind from the individuals to whom we are the closest and what happens when we are forced to reveal what we have tried so hard to hide. <br />In this story, Ronnie tries to hide the fact that she is not an up and coming model/actress as she wants and leads her family to believe.  Celeste, tries to hide the fact that she is not as wealthy as she wants and leads people to believe.  However, the crux of the story lies with the secrets held by the mother Odella and the experiences she had while growing up in North Carloina.  A trip to the attic to clean out the fathers personal belongings takes these women on a journey which is mysterious to the daughters, painful for the mother and casts the much beloved yet deceased father in somewhat of an unfavorable light at least as far as his daughters are concerned.<br />A trip back to North Carolina causes these women to explore themselves, come face to face with the past and its demons and come out on the other side more knowledgeable and as better people. This novel is fantastic and makes you wonder what secrets our parents hold, not as parents but as people. Highly recommended.	2000-10-01
US	51320643	R2O254S0KPAA7N	0312202911	620382425	Far From the Tree	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Mother/Daughter Must Read!	This is a beautifully written story about the relationship between two sisters, Ronnie and Celeste and their relationship with their mother, Odella.  The story opens immediately following the death of the father/husband Will. The central theme of the novel is how at some point in our lives, we all try to hind from the individuals to whom we are the closest and what happens when we are forced to reveal what we have tried so hard to hide.<br />In this story, Ronnie tries to hide the fact that she is not an up and coming model/actress as she wants and leads her family to believe.  Celeste, tries to hide the fact that she is not as wealthy as she wants and leads people to believe.  However, the crux of the story lies with the secrets held by the mother Odella and the experiences she had while growing up in North Carloina.  A trip to the attic to clean out the fathers personal belongings takes these women on a journey which is mysterious to the daughters, painful for the mother and casts the much beloved yet deceased father in somewhat of an unfavorable light at least as far as his daughters are concerned.<br />A trip back to North Carolina causes these women to explore themselves, come face to face with the past and its demons and come out on the other side more knowledgeable and as better people. This novel is fantastic and makes you wonder what secrets our parents hold, not as parents but as people. Highly recommended.	2000-10-01
US	51320643	R1WJ4TE9E4RBOS	0786866462	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	1	2	10	N	Y	Frustrating Read	Maybe it's just me but I couldn't get into this book.  I read some of the other customer reviews and thought maybe I was reading the wrong book.  I checked the title and sure enough, it was the same novel. The author jumped around too much for me and never seemed to connect the dots.  The story appeared to be written in a manner which took the reader on a journey of different &quot;snippets' in the lives of different characters.  I didn't feel that the characters were developed particularly well and felt that some of the emotions were somewhat out of place given what was occuring at the time.<br />Essentially, although I am never one to shy away from an intellectual exercise, I found this novel to be much too much work. It just did not come together in a thoughtful, concise manner which made reading it a chore.	2000-09-28
US	51320643	RSOAXMWGAVCDC	0802733441	116646434	Brigham's Day	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Interesting Subject and Well Worth Reading	This is the story of an attorney responsible for defending a man accused of murder.  The once well known and well respected Brigham Bybee is at the center of the novel.  Unfortunately, he is no longer well respected and is on the verge of being disbarred.  In order to save his license, he is appointed to represent a man accused of killing a person who holds a very important Latter Day Saint secret.<br />This secret goes back over 200 years and at first blush, although the theory of defense is somewhat farfetched, as the novel progresses, the author does a good job of tying the events of the past to the events of the present. Although the story is not factually accurate, it would not be difficult to imagine an organization killing in the attempt to preserve the &quot;good name&quot; of the organization.<br />I thought this was a very good debut novel and the creativity was very impressive.  Although this was a very well written legal thriller, I was somewhat disappointed in what appeared to be the authors lack of recognition of the obligation of an attorney to his/her client. Bigbee's relationship with Zolene created a major conflict of interest and had the effect of undermining his duty,responsibility and obligation to his client.The dynamics of  that relationship was somewhat at odds with the representation of his client. However, notwithstanding that minor nuance, I thought the book was quite good and look forward to the second Bigbee novel.	2000-09-25
US	51320643	R2JT0UM2BCRPF7	0060193123	369093723	The Bingo Queens of Paradise	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Good Debut	This is a very well written debut novel.  It is the story about the city of Paradise and the people that live there.  At the center of the novel are Darla, her sister Rhonda, their dear family friend Elijah, their hooker mother Roxie and can't forget the grandmother Sophie and her collection of imaginary frogs.<br />Life in the city of Paradise for this  faminly is pretty rough and depressing.  Darla wants to move from Paradise and work with dress designers in New York City.  Although that is her dream, she must first deal with an uncaring and irresponsible mother, a terminally ill sister, an abusive brother in law, a mentally challanged grandmother and life's memories.  It is her ability to handle all of these events in a rather cynical manner which adds to the characters and the novel.  <br />This is the story of the not so pleasant side of life in rural America.  The characters deal with very real situations and a smattering of faith and religion is added to enhance the story line.  Pretty impressive for a first novel.	2000-09-25
US	51320643	R2VYP6NP9UX5ZQ	1881524469	932058781	Something in Common	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	O.K. Debut Novel but Needed Better Editing	This is the story about three sisters, two of whom are estranged from the  third. One is an author, one is a school teacher and I couldn't quite  figure out the occupation of the third sister. The story essentially  revolves around the relationship between the sisters and the sisters  relationship with others.  Although I thought the story had potential, I  felt the author approached the issues presented in the novel in a rather  simplistic and pedantic manner.  I would like to have seen more development  of both the characters and the various storylines.  In reading the novel,  the characters were pretty one dimensional and all of the main characters  seemed to focus upon was the presence and love of a man.  Additionally, the  poor editing detracted significantly from the novel.	2000-09-17
US	51320643	RBPN7OLZ0DB0M	006105366X	237718280	My Soul to Keep (African Immortals series)	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Beautiful	This is the story of an immortal who gets swept away with the lives of  mortals and desires to maintain the love affection and closeness he has  with those individuals.  David aka Dawit is an African/ African American  who has inhabited this earth for the past 500 years.  He has had many  lives, many experiences, many wives and many children. However, whenever  the powers have told him to leave his life amongst mortals, he has done so  without reservation.<br />However, along comes his wife Jessica  and the Kira,  the daughter they share and his life changes based on his sense of love and  devotion to these 2 people.  David aka Dawit's blood is everlasting and  once infused into the body of mortals, accompanyed by the Ritual of Life,  individuals live forever. Although Dawit is sworn to secrecy, his love for  his wife causes him to break the covenant and risk the life not only of  himself but his family as well.  It is with his blood that he attemtps to  ensure that his new wife and child have everlasting life. <br />Although the  character of Dawit is somewhat odd and sinister, he has redeeming qualities  based on his sacrifice in the name of Jessica and Kira.  It almost makes  the acts he commits during the book seem OK. In an odd way, this is the  story about what a person will do in the name of love.<br />I thoroughly  enjoyed this novel and it had a very interesting religious twist re: the  blood of Christ. This author is very talented.  I have read all three of  her novels and each one is very well written.  However, her novels show a  great deal of versatility, each with a completely different subject yet  each beautifully well written.  Highly recommended.	2000-09-13
US	51320643	R242BD58021NT6	0684846136	721800600	Li'l Mama's Rules: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Real Story About Real Life	This is the story about a 30 something African American woman living in LA  in the 90's.  Madison Maguire has brains, talent, looks and enough men to  last her for a while.  She has her rules concerning dating and it is a long  and exhaustive list.  Unfortunately, she left off her list the most  important rule which ultimately causes her much heartache, disgrace and  fear.<br />Interestingly enough, Madison's rules can be directly traced to her  lack of relationship with her father.  Her issues concerning her 'absent  father' are at the root of many of the decisions that she makes concerning  love, trust and committment.  The interesting topic in this novel is how  the author, true to form, depicts how the lack of fathers in the rearing of  their children, particularly female children, has an impact on their lives.   Research has often shown that women who grow up with the presence and love  of a father are healthier individuals and are better able to have healthy  relationships with men.  The novel gives some insight into the effects that  absentee fathers have on the lives of their daughters. <br />This is a very  talented author who has the ability to tell a story in a manner which  causes the reader to feel the characters. This quality was once again  exhibited during the authors description of what was going on in Madison's  head when she tried to end her life. <br />I did not know much about the novel  however purchased it because I loved &quot;Blessings&quot;.  This novel  tackled some very intense issues.  I personally think this book should be  required reading in high schools across the country.	2000-09-05
US	51320643	R3JESN4AHT0MM	0316442178	818147619	Raveling	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Decent Debut Novel	This novel is the story of the 20 year old disappearance of Pilot's sister  Fiona.  Pilot is a paranoid schizophrenic or is he? Pilot's brother is a  well respected neurosurgeon responsible for the care of both his  &quot;sight impaired&quot; mother and mentally challanged brother. As Pilot  begins to remember the details surrounding his sister's disappearance, the  beloved neurosurgeon begins to give Pilot medication which brings on a  psychotic episode.  He wants everyone to believe that Pilot is nuts so that  when he, Pilot, reveals the truth, no one will believe him.    <br />Fortunately, Pilot's therapist does believe him, sort of.   Unfortunately, the therapist gets involved with the handsome brother and he  attempts to manipulate the therapist by getting information about Pilot's  progress and by feeding his own form of information to the therapist.  To  say that this is a major conflict of interest and violation of  doctor/patient confidentiality is an understatement and tends to detract  somewhat from the credibility of the novel.  The shrink however, is  probably a lot more like Pilot than she is the handsome brother as she has  issues (major ones) of her own.  I wish the author had explored those  issues in depth a little more.  It could have added an interesting element  to the storyline. <br />As a result of these 2 characters, the story is  written from a very unique perspective, that of a paranoid schizophrenic  who knows and sees all in a voyeuristic (?) sort of way and his shrink, who  is a little off center in her own right.<br />Although the plot is somewhat  predictable, the novel is well written and the author definitely has the a  promising literary future.	2000-09-04
US	51320643	R2K9362WSDSZ5K	0385491239	789053456	Only Twice I've Wished for Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Beautifully Written Debut Novel	This debut novel is written with the literary maturity of the likes of Gloria Naylor and there is something about the story which reminds me of  the novel &quot;The Woemn Of Brewster Place&quot;.<br />This is the story  about a 12 year old girl, Tempset and her life once the family moves from  the place where she has grown up, to a new, better home and enviornment  called Lakeland.  Lakeland represents where Chicago's &quot;up and coming  and just arrived&quot; black folks live.  Just across the gate however, is  35th Street which is a neighborhood that is the complete opposite of  Lakeland.  Seperating the 2 communities is a fence however that fence does  not prevent Tempest from exploring all that life has to offer on the other  side of the gate, good and bad.<br />Tempest periodically ventures over the  gate and onto the infamous 35th street where she is introduced to a  wonderful, powerful, soulful and rich cast of characters.  She is also  esposed to the tragedies of life including, but not limited to, drug  addiction, prostitution and suicide. Although her father moves the family  to the Lakeland community so they could have a better life, Tempest learns  most of her lessons when she is on 35th street.<br />The novel is told from  the wonderful perspective of both a 12 year old child and a 50 something  year old adult who come to love and depend on each other as the novel  progresses.<br />The writing in this novel was absolutely exquisite.  However,  I think the fact the the reader knew what was going to happen to the other  young character, Valerie, from the outset of the novel, made the story  incredibly touching and sad.	2000-08-31
US	51320643	R2HYG8I8MTR60F	1576736156	415976689	Passing by Samaria	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Good but not great	Although I thought this novel was good, I felt the author was somewhat  simplistic and pedantic in her description of the main character. Although  the review pegged this as the story of a woman coming of age and her issues  surrounding racism, hope, despair etc., I found the novel to be more about  the racism, hope, despair and forgiveness of a group of people.  It wasn't  until towards the end of the book that I really began to enjoy the story,  not for the character but for the theme of people forgiving in the face of  atrocious behavior perpetrated upon them.  To a certain extent, this novel  reminded me of some of the novels written by J. California Cooper  particularly with its emphasis on religion and forgiveness. At times, the  novel did not seem to flow from one area to another and there were also  times when situations were not fully developed and intergrated in the  story, which made it difficult to see where and how things fit into the  &quot;big picture&quot;.  All in all, OK.	2000-08-28
US	51320643	R21I870HB4PJOY	0060927267	982558758	The Between	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	PRETTY IMPRESSIVE	I WAS SOMEWHAT HESITANT TO PURCHASE THIS NOVEL BASED ON THE SUBJECT MATTER  HOWEVER I HAD READ 'THE BLACK ROSE' AND WAS IMPRESSED WITH THE WRITING SO I  TOOK A CHANCE.  THIS BOOK IS ACTUALLY PRETTY GOOD.  IT'S NOT OFTEN THAT A  BOOK ABOUT THE EXISTENCE BETWEEN LIFE AND DEATH, REALITY AND FANTASY IS  WRITTEN BY AN AFRICAN AMERICAN AUTHOR.  THE BEST PART ABOUT THE BOOK WAS  THAT IT WAS WRITTEN IN SUCH A MANNER THAT THE READER NEVER KNEW WHETHER THE  EVENTS WERE REAL OR A BYPRODUCT OF THE MAIN CHARACTERS  IMAGINATION...REALITY OR FANTASY. THE BEST WAY TO DESCRIBE THE BOOK IS TO  IMAGINE THAT IT IS TOLD FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF SOMEONE SUFFERING FROM A  MENTAL DISEASE SUCH AS PARANOID SCHIZOPHRENIA.  ONE NEVER KNOWS IF IT IS  REALITY OR FANTASY. THE NOVEL ALSO COULD BE DESCRIBED AS SURREAL. ALL IN  ALL, THOUGHT IT WAS A VERY CREATIVE WAY TO TELL A STORY AND IT ALWAYS KEPT  THE READER GUESSING. IF YOU LIKE DEAN KOONTZ AND STEPHEN KING NOVELS, THIS  IS SIMILIAR BUT WITH AN AFRICAN AMERICAN TWIST. I LOOK FORWARD TO READING  'MY SOUL TO KEEP' WHICH I ORDERED BEFORE I COMPLETED THIS NOVEL.  THE  AUTHOR DID A GOOD JOB ON THIS NOVEL	2000-08-28
US	51320643	R1K2OQTMI71KHS	0684853124	387189583	Blessings: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A FANTASTIC PAGE TURNER	Any African American woman who has ever spent any time in a beauty shop  must read this book.  The beauty shop &quot;Blessings&quot; is the back  drop for a wonderful, entertaining, funny and well written novel about 4  woman and their issues surrounding motherhood. The characters are  incredibly well developed and you feel as if you know someone like each of  the main characters. Zuma, the major character and the &quot;diva of the  hot curlers&quot; is so real. She is so real that any black woman who has  sat for hours in a beauty shop knows at least 1 Zuma.<br />Likewise, whether  in a beauty shop or not, we all know at least one character like Faye.  A  woman who has issues surrounding her own self image and self esteem and  drowns her sorrows in a bag of Oreo cookies or by ordering way too much  food a Jack in the Box. Yes, we are comfort food addicts and when things go  wrong, food and lots of it makes us feel better.<br />Sandy is by far the most  complicated of the characters because she lives her life for one thing only  and that's Cerwin.  She has no compassion for her children and could be  characterized as a terrible mother until she redeems herself in the  end.<br />Finally, there is Pat, the owner of the shop whose main issue  surrounds her inability to have children and how that significantly impacts  her life.<br />These characters are real and each individual personality  compliments the other in such a manner that they relate well to each other  in the novel and they gain strength for each other.  This book was  absolutely fantastic and the author was very vivid in her description of  specific events, such as Tracy being taken from her foster parents.<br />I  look forward to reading more novels by this author.  This book is  definitely a &quot;sistergirl&quot; book.	2000-08-28
US	51320643	R1NAT9582IT4E3	0375503404	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	WAY TOO FUNNY	This is the story about a man who decides that he has found the woman for  him and wants to get married.  It is funny and cute to see his adoration of  his intended however, she has a secret which is pretty easy to figure out  around the middle of the book.  However, getting to the revelation of the  secret and the subsequent consequences is a very funny, entertaining and  thought provoking journey. There were some descriptions and lines in this  book that were utterly hilarious.  My favorite part was the house party.   It brought back memories from parties and people in my own past. This is  really a delightful read which is very entertaining and very well written.	2000-08-25
US	51320643	R1E4ZJO8CHL0ZO	0385498241	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	Y	LACKING  IN CONTENT	Although I have read all of the novels written by this author and have enjoyed many, I felt this is the least well written of the last 3 or 4 novels he has published.  E. Lynn Harris is a very popular author.  At  times it appears that when an author is very popular, there is  a tendency  to skimp on content, quality and literary integrity and just let the  popular name of the author carry the novel onto the bestseller list.<br />In  this novel, I did not get the sense that he approached the novel with the  same sense of passion and depth as is apparent in some of this earlier  novels and with some of his other characters. For example,  I felt the  author spent too much time detailing the shallowness of Yancy and her  mother yet spent very little time discussing those issues which caused  Yancey to be the person she was in the novel. <br />The focus on Yancey and  her shallowness, as well as her mothers, was so overwhelming that it  detracted from the quality of the novel and in my estimation, made the book  read like any number of novels on the market which have portrayed African  American women as gold-digging, heartless individuals. Yancey had some real  issues and I wish the source of those issues had been explored more fully,  just as the author has done with characters in some of his previous novels,  particularly as he did with Zachary's introduction in &quot;And This Too  Shall Pass&quot;.<br />Second, although I was happy to see that Basil, in the  beginning of the novel, had attained a level of emotional maturity and was  able to love, he ultimately reverted to his old ways and did not appear to  have  learned anything positive and healthy from his experience with  Yancey. It would have been better had the author allowed Basil a period of  honest self examination so that at least he could have taken something away  from his experience which would make his life better and result in some  measure of peace. Perhaps this will be the subject of the next novel.<br />The  characters which I enjoyed the most yet which got very little print were  Windsor, Zachary and Campbell, Basil's sister. Those were the three  characters who really represented what life is all about.  I wished the  author taken a little more time and given these characters greater roles as  it related to their interactions with Basil and who he truly was as a human  being.<br />All in all, I thought the novel lacked the type of character depth  and reflection that has been presnet in some of his earlier novels. It  appeared as if the author had to get another book published and didn't  really care about the quality and content of the novel he was introducing  into the market.	2000-07-26
US	51320643	RDX9JFULQT8JP	0679727914	325130492	In My Father's House	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Poses More Questions Than It Answers	I have always found Earnest Gaines to be an author who creates characters with very real issues who are also very intense and often times, too complicated.  In this novel, the main character, Reverend Martin has to  struggle with the sins of his past and try to resolve those in light of who  he has become in the present. <br />However, I found that the author, in the  form of the main character asked to many questions yet never resolved the  issues posed by those questions.  The story centers around the  relationship, or lack thereof, between a father and a son. Although the  main character tries to figure out how he can repair his relationship with  his son, he ponders too many issues without resolving the main issue.<br />At  times I felt that the dialogue and story line were somewhat incomplete  and/or vague. The incompleteness of the story often led to rereading  certain portions of the novel to make sure I had not missed the next step.  In essence, the thought process as outlined in the novel was somewhat  scattered and at times, it was difficult to get a handle on exactly what  was happening with the various characters. At times, it was a mental  struggle to figure out the meaning of some of the actions and words of the  characters.  <br />If you are looking for a novel that is somewhat easy to  read and understand on an intellectual level then this is perhaps not the  novel to read.	2000-07-26
US	51320643	RZR6VVXOT3R2	0446675059	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	5	5	7	N	N	GREAT READ	This novel is about the life and interaction of several people from very different backgrounds and how they are able to bring their individual experiences together to help and inspire each other.  This author has the  great ability to create characters which are wonderful, a little quirky,  very real and cause the reader to open their hearts and embrace each  one.<br />It is somewhat difficult to review this novel because there are so  many things going on with the various characters.  Perhaps the best and  most prolific interaction is between Caney, a disabled Vietnam vet and one  of his employees, Mr. Bui, a Vietnamese individual. The most beautiful  dialogue in the book is between these 2 characters after Bui is released  from the hospital after he (Bui) is shot by an individual who did not like  him solely due to his race.<br />The best way to sum up this novel is to say  that on the whole, it teaches people how, notwithstanding our own  differences, whether major or minor, we can come together. I praise the  author because her novels contain characters from all walks of life,  ethnicity's, socio-economic bckgrounds, etc.  Her characters don't  represent the rich and famous nor do they represent one dimensional  personalities.  The author creates characters which are representative of  every day people with every day issues, insecurities etc.  Great read	2000-07-25
US	51320643	R3QFEIGAPKQQ19	0345439600	682734838	The Black Rose	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Throughly captivating and very well written	This is a very well written novel about the life of one of the greatest African American women and enterprenuers in the history of this country. The author did a great job of meticulously outlining the life and struggles  of Madam CJ Walker, from her very young life until the time of her death.   Although I would like to believe that all of the information contained in  the book was true and accurate (with the exception of a few characters  which the author indicates are fictional) I thought the book could have  been more self authenticating if it contained footnoted and outlined  references to certain aspects of the Madam's life referred to and mentioned  in the novel.  <br />The author had at her disposal research conducted by Alex  Hailey and refereneces to his research during the novel would have led to  more authenticity.  To that extent, it was difficult to determine which  aspects of Madam CJ Walker's life were factual and those which were  fictional. I hope in writing the novel, the author stuck as close as  possible to the events in the life of this great woman.<br />However, all in  all, I thought the novel was very well written and captured the attention  of the reader.	2000-07-25
US	51320643	R1JCX1HU4LGZ1K	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	THROUGHLY ENTERTAINING	This was an absolutely wonderful &quot;feel good&quot; book with many characters all of whom had their different and unique 'quirks' but shared their gift of life, love, hope and goodness in the same manner. Although  there are some tragic and unfortunate things which happen in this book, the  characters always seem to come out on top and share their experiences in a  way that helps others. All of the characters, even Willie Jack, have  redeeming qualities.<br />The interaction between the characters is splendid  and the story is just marvelous.  This is a must read.  You will definately  feel good after this one. I can't wait to read her second novel.	2000-07-13
US	51320643	R1QJ8CCFF96ABG	0345425529	415512987	Waiting in Vain	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	DIFFERENT KIND OF READING EXPERIENCE	Fire was an incredible character.  I was truly turned on by his  intelligence, passion, humbleness and sense of respect for women.  I felt  that this novel was more about the quality of a man and less about his  relationships with women. That which really pulled at my heart strings was  his relationship with Ian. I saw this as the major relationship in the  novel, with his relationship with Sylvia and Blanche being secondary. The  interaction between these two friends who grew up together and had their  own issues with each other was a compelling part of the novel.<br />I also  enjoyed the fact that the main character was someone other than an African  American.  The Jamaica history, ritual and culture gave the novel a very  unique twist.  To that extent, for those of us who associate Jamaica only  with Bob Marley, it was a cultural experience as well.	2000-07-10
US	51320643	R29QXP0GR2IQR3	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	MOVING AND POIGNANT	This novel is truly inspirational on a number of different levels.  The authors first hand experience concerning the identity crisis that sometimes befalls children of mixed heritage was truly amazing. Although a story  about race, this novel showcases an incredible and exceptional woman.<br />I  had seen this novel in bookstores several times however never purchased it  due to my own issues surrounding the marriage of black men to white women.  Of course, that is my issue, not the authors. However, after recently  purchasing and reading the novel, I truly wished that I had read it much  earlier.<br />This story is really about a tribute to a mother who has the  strength, wisdom and love necessary in raising 12 successful children.  The  fact that this woman, who for all practical purposes by today's standards  grew up in a dysfunctional family, could give to her children that which  she did not receive as a child, i.e,love, wisdom, education, purpose,  direction, hope, etc was awe inspiring.<br />The story is also about the  struggles of racial identity and how the author dealt with those issues  while growing up.  The authors personal and intimate revelations concerning  how he really felt living in the precarious world of white vs. black took a  lot of courage and guts.  It is probably not easy to admit to yourself and  then to your mother that you were ashamed of her because the color of her  skin.  That was pretty powerful.  The authors candor and honesty made this  novel an exceptional read and one that pulled at the heart strings.  I  would highly recommend this novel to anyone of any age, race or religious  background. Don't make the mistake of waiting to read this novel or you  will definately miss out!  Excellant read!	2000-07-04
US	51320643	R39GO302PJTRXQ	0374299870	446187663	Half a Heart	Books	1	13	17	N	Y	Disappointing	Although this novel tried to explore the issues surrounding inter-racial relationships and children born to those relationship, this novel was very primitive, pedantic and lacked insight and depth.  It was a poorly written  novel. It skipped from one train of thought to the other with any sense of  connection.  The novel did absolutely nothing to explore the particular  issues faced by parents and children of mixed heritage.<br />Also disturbing  was that I found the book to be somewhat stereotypical in its  characterization of situationsi.e., the wealthy privileged Jewish mother,  the militant father, the poor manipulative daughter, the lifestyle in  Texas, the reaction of the step father etc.<br />The issue of the condition,  treatment and specific situations faced by mixed heritage children,  particularly those with a black and white parent, carries such significance  and has so many implication. I felt the author dealt with these issues  casually or not at all.  To that extent, I found the novel shallow and  somewhat insulting. It would have been good had the author done a little  research and spoken with individuals of mixed heritage before she attempted  to write a book in this area.  Anyone interested in reading a good book in  this area should read &quot;The Color of Water&quot; by James McBride.  Excellant novel written by someone who has had first hand experience in  this area.	2000-07-04
US	51320643	R1P4OTNXSFPZP	0374299870	446187663	Half a Heart	Books	1	4	7	N	Y	Frustrating and Disappointing Novel	Poorly written novel which was difficult to finish. The novel was more about the issues of the mother and less about establishing and maintaining a relationship with a daughter that she had not seen in 17 years. It was  somewhat impractible to believe that this mother would give up the child  she had raised for 8 months without a fight.  Second, it was curious that  it would take her 17 years to track her down. I did not find  that the  story maintained a consistent stream of conciousness and the author  appeared to jump from one scene to another without intergrating the various  themes. I failed to see the significance of some characters, such as Justin  and the re-emergence of Jewel.  I also found the novel to be incredibly  stereotypical of blacks, whites, Jews, southerners etc.  The stereotypes  were perhaps the biggest disappointment.  I would not purchase this book in  hardcover.  Wait for it in paperback or better yet, get in from the  library.	2000-06-25
US	51320643	R6TS5BS915BVD	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Very Disappointing	It is clear that from a technical standpoint, the author can write.  Her use of the English language and her lavish and identifiable prose are great.  However, the storyline was disappointing and I could not relate to  this character or her issues in the slightest.  At times, I  felt that  instead of being a doctor, she should have been seeing a doctor, complete  with a heatlhy dose of medication.  I found Jo to be incredibly self  absorbed and self centered as she meandered her way through life.<br />It is  one thing to possess these characteristics when you are in your 20's and  trying to gain some sense of self awareness and self direction. However, it  is something entirely different when you are in your 40's with a husband  and adult children. Life is ordinarily about learning for ones prior  experiences and hopefully not making the same or similiar mistake in the  future.   It seemed that throughout her life, she would act without any  regard for the impact of her actions on those people who surrounded  her.<br />Her obsession with Eli was somewhat odd in light of the fact that  although they lived together in a house with several people, they were  never truly close. Consequently her fascination and obsession with him and  fantasies about him were somewhat bizarre given her previous limited  interactions with him.  I did not quite get what she was trying to prove to  herself with this obsession. Over and above the fact that he was a part of  a very tragic part of her life, it appeared that she sought something else  from her interaction with him of which I could not ascertain.<br />I saw this  book as more about issues of self awareness and less about issues of  morality and redemption.  In my estimation, a healthy dose of self  awareness and realization goes a long way in resolving, personally, those  issues of our own morality and redemption. In some sense, Jo had difficulty  seperating fantasy from reality.<br />If Jo were someone I personally knew, I  would advise that she might want to read &quot;Tuesday's with Morrie&quot;  and hopefully gain both a life and reality check.	2000-06-11
US	51320643	R1A2A1C4HACV14	0385467869	2677075	In Search of Satisfaction	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Interesting	Although I enjoyed this novel, I thought it was overly simplistic and lacked character development in some areas. It was interesting to see the interplay between good and evil, God and Satan and I think this technique  added a certain uniqueness to the novel and the authors writing style.   There were some very valuable lessons contained in this novel and for that  reason, it is worth reading.	2000-06-11
US	51320643	RFCATML4SX7C3	0671014994	930252669	Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	DEEPLY MOVING, THANKS WALTER MOSLEY	Socrates Fortlow is a character that embodies some part of the everyday experiences of African American people, hope, despair, insight, trust, wisdom. As a member of the criminal defense bar, I come in contact with  people like Socrates on a daily basis.  The novel had particular meaning  for me. No matter hard difficult my job becomes, or how oppressive the law  has become, or how inherently racist the system continues to be, or how  frustated I get with my clients, this novel reminded me of hope,  persistance and the goodness of mankind. This book reinforced why I will  comtinue to represent men like Socrates Fortlow.	2000-06-04
US	51320643	R3RD9LW5PG9FIB	0316899984	508044138	River, Cross My Heart: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	GOOD PICK OPRAH	I enjoyed this novel for a number of different reasons.  Although I thought the description on the back of the book was misleading, I enjoyed it nonetheless.  Typically when reading stories about African Americans and  their lives and struggles in the early 1900's, authors have a tendency to  highlight the negative and downplay the positive.  This often leads to a  true yet dpressing reflection of the lives of Blacks at that time.  I found  this book refreshing in that it dealt more with the positive aspects of  this lives of the characters notwithstanding the racism that they dealt  with on a daily basis. The description of the lives of these characters was  not oppressive. Although the characters were aware and subject to the overt  racism on a daily basis, they appeared to rise above it and live their  lives with dignity, power, respect and control. The fact that they took  control of their lives even in light of the racism was what I enjoyed about  the book.<br />More important than that, I felt that the book was more about  triumph over tragedy with the river/water being the predominant theme.   First, I thought that Johnnie Mae's character was developed in light of the  issues dealt with in the novel.  She took on the responsibility of caring  for and protecting her sister yet was, in her mind, responsibile for the  death of her sister.  Her feelings about that were real. The best exapmle  of that was at the picnic when she was thinking  about her little brother  and his safety.  <br />Equally as important however was her love for the water  which was responsible  for the death of her little sister.  To me, the  water signified her greatest joy yet her greatest pain.  It was her ability  to deal with these conflicting emotions that I found to be the triumph over  tragedy. In her mom Alice, I saw the same thing. One daughter loved the  river/water and one daughter died in the water. When Alice watched her  daughter ( Johnnie Mae) at the competition coupled withher own fear of the  water(Alice's) there was a mixture of emotion.  Pain and joy. <br />Seeing  this young black girl in the  1920's defying the rules and swimming in  &quot;White Only&quot; pool was great.  To me, this was one of the  highlights of the book.  She was determined, confident and although there  was a &quot;Blacks Only&quot; pool which she enjoyed, she refused to allow  society to dictate where she could swin or what she could do.  Gotta love  that!<br />All in all, I thought the novel was well written and for me, it was  a &quot;feel good&quot; book. Of course, like the author, I am a Howard  University alumni so maybe I am a little biased.	2000-06-01
US	51320643	R3E2JAMQT24YL2	1573227161	950636517	Caucasia: A Novel	Books	3	13	21	N	N	GOOD TOPIC BUT?	I enjoyed this novel in that it explored the issues surrounding a biracial child who was trying to find her place in society and her own personal identity.  I felt however that the novel had major holes which if filled  in, would have made for a better read and would have assisted in the flow  of the novel.  For example, one never really knew what Birdie's mother was  involved in such that she was required to flee.  Was it real as discussed  by Cole or was it imagined as discussed by Dot.<br />I also didn't quite  understand why the father would allow Birdie to be under the care and  custody of the mother (who was on the run)as opposed to taking Birdie along  to Brazil.  Notwithstanding the fact that Birdie could arguably  &quot;pass&quot; it seemed like the greater concern would have been the  care and welfare of his daughter and not splitting the children up  according to which parent they favored the most.  I wish this area would  have been discussed a little more. <br />Once again, although I thought the  issue of biracial children finding their  identity and place in society to  be a very relevant topic, I thought that the author could have done a  better job of &quot;tying up some loose ends&quot;. Finally, although  Birdie was the herione of the novel, the other bi racial child, Cole was  totally ignored with respect to her issues of personal and racial identity.   Although we saw some of that during the beginning of the book i.e., the  interaction with the maternal grandmother and the mother braiding her hair,  there were undoubtly other biracial issues faced by Cole which seemed to be  ignored as she progressed into a teenager.  The book just seemed to present  one side of the biracial issue i.e., the passing, light skin long hair  issues and pretty much ignored the other side of the issue.	2000-05-30
US	51320643	R1MKIELC5LEM1D	0345381432	276853194	Dreaming in Cuban	Books	2	10	26	N	N	So So but not Great	I bought this novel in light of the recent events in Miami relative to the Cuban American community and their views about Fidel Castro.  It was an attempt to find out a little more about the political climate in Cuba and  how it can divide families. <br />Although the book was good in some parts, I  found it to be written in a very disjointed manner and the story was, at  times, difficult to follow.  I wish that he author would have been a little  more focused on where she was going and how she was going to get there.   She skipped from one character to another in a fashion that I thought was  annoying. Perhaps this is a novel that must be read twice in order to gain  the full meaning and message.  I was very disappointed.	2000-05-27
US	51320643	R35PF4GE0Z5ZIB	0684844710	398068571	FATHER FOUND : A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	PAGE TURNER FOR THE SOPHISTICATED READER	This novel is very intriguing because the story does not necessarily fit the title.  Although the story is about a man and an organization which has as its goal the reunification of fathers with their families, the behavior  of the main character along with the other significant characters was in  conflict with the stated goals of the organization.  <br />Zale the main  character, although sincere in his beliefs, is pretty brutal in his idea of  how a &quot;real father&quot; should behave and interact with his children.   Interestingly enough, Zale has absolutely no frame of reference because he  had no father or father figure.  Consequently, he buys into the fairytale,  idealistic view of fatherhood and runs his organization from that  viewpoint. In the long run, his attempt to impose his will on others had  the very real potential of doing more harm than good. Likewise, his partner  Martin, believed in the goals of the organization however he was single  handily responsible for the permanent elimination of a father who wanted to  have contact with and a relationship with his child. <br />This novel and the  characters are full of conflicts and hypocrocies which is why it is very  intriquing. Also of interest is that Zale in particular says he is  committed to the black community and wants his organization to benefit the  black community yet he places his emotional health and physical safety in  the hands of 2 white individuals. I enjoyed this book.  There is a lot  going on in this book and with these characters and I thought the author  was successful in bringing that to the forefront.	2000-05-23
US	51320643	R26MNQPEYLSTS1	1930097026	421102549	A Twist of Fate	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	DESERVING OF MORE THAN 5 STARS	This novel is incredibly well written and the characters are full exposed and developed.  This is a very talented author who has done a magnificant job of putting this book together.  She has paid attention to detail and  the special little nuiances (i.e., the quotes at the beginning of each  part) make this novel very entertaining and a page turner.  It is clear  from reading this novel that she  REALLY CARED ABOUT THE QUALITY OF NOVEL  SHE WAS PUTTING ON THE MARKET. Not only is it obvious that she cared, it is  equally obvious that she put an incredible amount of effort,research,  energy and thought into the story line, the characters and the important  lessons that each character developed along the way. For that, she should  be highly commended. <br />I thought Preconceived Notions was great and  showcased her talent but after reading this novel, I realize that  Preconceived Notions was just the tip of the iceberg.<br />More importantly to  me however, was the character Ashlea.  Not only was she a strong successful  woman, but based on her life's experiences, she had discovered herself  enough to realize that she could be alone and content. Although the  character of Sam was wonderful, Ashlea came into the relationship as a  complete human being and did not look to Sam to complete who she was as a  person. To me, that was the most significant aspect of the story. Based on  societies standards and expectations, sometimes we as women think that we  are not complete or are somehow inferior or inadequate if we are not  involved in a loving relationship. Although we all crave that (just as  Ashlea did) she also realized that if it didn't happen, she was happy with  herself and could be content. I think the way the author addressed the very  real issue of being alone and content with onesself was excellant. I think  Ashlea's realization that it is better to be alone and content than deal  with someone else's 'mad drama'is something that we all need to hear and  realize. I wish more authors would address that issue. This is a must read,  well worth the money spent and I really look forward to her next novel.   Keep up the good work Robyn and always care about the quality of book that  you put on the market.  It sets you apart from many others.	2000-05-15
US	51320643	R3N6D2JF123V42	0684854309	17180593	The ITCH : A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Itch of Life	I viewed the book as less about the black upper class and more about the expectations that we as people (African American women in particular) have about what we are supposed to do with our lives as it relates to men and  relationships. As an upper 30 year old African American female, I could  relate to many of the ideas and issues presented in the novel.  Abra  basically got sucked into the notion that her life was not complete and  satisfactory unless she had a man/husband.  It was not until her break form  Cullen that she had the strength to realize that she was a woman in her own  right, perfectly capable of making herself happy and being content with her  life and her decisions, irrespective of whether there was a significant  other in the picture.  I saw a lot of personal growth in Abra by the end of  the novel. Sure, we all want that &quot;true love&quot; but sometimes it  does not happen and we need to be prepared to define our lives based upon  who we are as individuals.  I  also liked Miles' character.  Although Miles  was feeling the &quot;itch&quot; by the end of the book, his itch was  different than Cullens. Miles got sucked into the notion that because of  his age and accomplishments, he should have the wife, 2.5 kids, 3 car  garage etc., I was not until the end of the book that he realized that it  was not something that was going to work for him. All in all, I viewed the  book as a contrast and struggle between what society tells us we should  have and strive for in order to be happy versus what we really need as  individuals in order to be happy. What we need in order to be happy takes  much reflection and I thought this book was good at giving some insight to  that process.	2000-05-11
US	51320643	RIY46H2ILTUUA	0671568965	953587607	The View From Here	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good Read	Although not as good as &quot;Walking Through Mirrors&quot;, the authors second novel, I enjoyed this novel nonetheless.  This author has a unique and incredible talent in drawing a reader into a story and making them (  the reader) become a part of the story.  This authors creativity was  exhibited in his choice of utilizing  the dialogue of an unborn child to  tell part of the story.  Also interesting was to see how the authors depth  of writing  and creativity had grown from this book to the second novel.  I  look forward to reading more from this author.  Although this author, at  this point, is not as popular as some of the well known African American  authors, it is evident from his writing that he takes great pride in the  words and thoughts that flow onto the pages of his novels and is motivated  more by style, integrity, creativity and true talent than he is by writing  a novel purely and simply for financial gain. For those who are avid  readers of true &quot;quality&quot; novels and measure the quality of a  book by the depth, development and creativity of an author, you will not be  disappointed.	2000-05-07
US	51320643	R3SOS52GI912Q3	0060977035	779968831	Still Missing	Books	1	8	17	N	Y	Totally Boring!	Perhaps I would have enjoyed this book if I were a parent however, I found this book incredibly boring and it was a struggle to finish it.  It seemed as if the author did not give a lot of thought to the structure of the  novel and its characters.  There were characters which were thrown into the  novel and did not seem to have any purpose or add in any way to the  understanding of the novel. Quite frankly, the various characters who  floated in and out of the book just added to the disjointed nature of the  novel.  I kept waiting for something to happen and just when I thought that  I was just around the corner from suspense, there was nothing. This book  was not worth the time investing in reading it.	2000-05-06
US	51320643	RUQS62S9N3Q3Z	0684852012	64120466	Fed Up with the Fanny: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Interesting Read	I really enjoyed this book and wish that a Kahlil or Deric would pop into my life. What I found particularly interesting were some of the conversations between the male characters concerning women and their role  in relationships i.e., patience vs. impatience. I did not enjoy the  relaionship between Kelly and CeCe and thought CeCe should have awakened  much sooner than she did.  Quite frankly, I thought Kelly was somewhat  disgusting but unfortunately, there are women in this world who behave in  that manner. I could understand Kelly's dislike and mistrust for men based  on her experiences but that had nothing to do with her friendship with  CeCe. The end was a shock and to say the least, very sad.  I look forward  to reading a &quot;Cup of Love&quot;.  This author writes very well.	2000-04-30
US	51320643	R3DWGLC5Q3OU0U	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Page Turner	This novel was incredible.  It was my second Anita Shreve novel, &quot;Pilot's Wife&quot; being the first.  Although I was deeply disappointed in the &quot;Pilot's Wife&quot; and hesitant to buy this novel  in light of my previous disappointment, I am glad that I took the risk.   The book is very well written and I thoroughly enjoyed the writing  technique style which was very unique and captivating.  This book deals  with the very important issue of domestic abuse and what progress has  occurred in the law and societies view of domestic violence within the past  20 years. Definately worth the read.	2000-04-28
US	51320643	R1L2WTXOIQ30N0	1893979016	982355937	Cousins	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Loved the Dialogue	This was a great book and I loved the dialogue.  I am not particularly fond of love stories but this is a cute love story.  It is one of those books that makes you feel good and smile when you are done reading it.   That Neola was a trip.	2000-04-19
US	51320643	R4AXPPFT9I4H3	0684844702	76022424	The Harris Men: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	GREAT NOVEL	THIS BOOK, ALONG WITH &quot;WALKING THROUGH MIRRORS&quot; WRITTEN BY BRIAN KEITH JACKSON, ARE PROBABLY THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE READ IN A VERY LONG TIME.  FOR A DEBUT NOVEL, I THOUGHT THE BOOK WAS INCREDIBLY WELL WRITTEN. I  APPRECIATED THE AUTHOR TAKING THE TIME TO DEVELOP HIS CHARACTERS.   SPECIFICALLY, I FOUND THAT THE AUTHOR TOUCHED ON THE ISSUES EACH BROTHER  FACED AS IT RELATED TO EACH RESPECTIVE BROTHERS BIRTH ORDER.  AUSTIN HAD A  DIFFERENT VIEW OF HIS FATHER THAN DID MARCUS AND CALEB BECAUSE HE WAS THE  OLDEST.  LIKEWISE, MARCUS WAS PROBABLY THE MOST DEVASTATED BY THE  DISSERTION OF HIS FATHER BECAUSE HE WAS THE MIDDLE CHILD AND HAD TO FACE  HIS MOTHERS DEATH, FATHERS ABSENCE, AND RAISING HIS YOUNGER BROTHER.  THE  ABSENCE OF THE FATHER HAD MUCH DIFFERENT EFFECT ON CALEB BECAUSE HE NEVER  REALLY HAD A STRONG AND LASTING RELATIONSHIP WITH EITHER OF HIS PARENTS  BECAUSE HE WAS THE LAST BORN.  ALSO OF INTEREST WAS THE ROLE REVERSAL WHICH  TOOK PLACE TOWARDS THE END OF THE NOVEL BETWEEN AUSTIN AND MARCUS.   ALTHOUGH THROUGHOUT THE BOOK, MARCUS WAS THE ONE TO TRY AND KEEP THE  BROTHERS TOGETHER,MUCH TO THE DISMAY OF AUSTIN, IT WAS ULTIMATELY AUSTIN  WHO TRIED TO MAKE PEACE BETWEEN MARCUS AND JULIAN. HOWEVER, MARCUS' REQUEST  OF HIS FATHER AT THE END RESULTED IN KEEPING THE BROTHERS TOGETHER WHICH I  THOUGHT WAS INTERESTING. ALL IN ALL, I THOUGHT THE AUTHOR DID A GOOD JOB  WITH A DIFFICULT SUBJECT MATTER AND THIS SHOULD BE REQUIRED READING FOR ALL  BLACK MEN WHO ARE CONTEMPLATING HAVING CHILDREN.  THIS BOOK POINTS OUT THE  INCREDIBLE RESPONSIBILITY INVOLVED IN RAISING CHILDREN AND HAVING A FATHER  FIGURE AND UNFORTUNATELY, THE PAIN, CONFUSION, DESTRUCTION OF LIFE AND LONG  LASTING EMOTIONAL EFFECTS WHICH RESULT WHEN FATHERS ARE ABSENT. I HAVE  ORDERED AND LOOK FORWARD TO READING &quot;FATHER:FOUND&quot;, THE AUTHORS  SECOND NOVEL.	2000-04-17
US	51320643	R1ZKHX4CPOW3J2	0345426045	469268443	Cookie Cutter	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Creative Premise	This was a pretty good debut novel.  I thought the premise was actually quite interesting and very different. Although there are a number of mini sub story lines in this book, the author does a great job of tying  everything together in the end.  Personally, the book brought back some  memories.  Having been born and raised in Detroit, Michigan, I remember all  too well the 1967 riots and the impact that it had on the city. I also had  fond memories of the 4 term mayor who would 'cuss you out in a minute' and  the well known Tv anchor who was well known in the area as having a severe  drinking problem. For that reason, the book was particularly nostalgic.  Can't wait for the second novel.	2000-04-11
US	51320643	R1TJ83WJK4UYFW	0948390611	500304291	Preconceived Notions	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good Read	This book is a good novel.  Although in the first couple of chapters I felt that the book would be more fluff with no meat, once I got into the book,I was presently suprised.  I was glad to see that Imagany gained some  self awareness but was very disappointed that she did not feel or see the  need to protect her sister much earlier on in the book.  Unfortunately by  the time she took the time to realize it, it was too late. Although a good   read, the book was really somewhat sad.  Even though Imagany found true  happiness with a very loving and giving man, she seemed to recognize that  she had to create and maintain her own identity.  It is very good to read  books where the character, especially female, comes away from a situation  with the realization that she has to know who and what she is before she  can try and give herself to someone else.	2000-04-11
US	51320643	R1MXAA85THEJYM	0671016717	992945233	Blue Blood (Ivy League Mysteries)	Books	2	7	8	N	Y	Nancy Drew of the 90's	Although I  read the book in a matter of hours, I was a little disappointed in the authors writing style and depth of delivery given her list of accomplishments ( contained extensively on the last page of the  book)  I would like to have seen more thought go into the development of  her characters.  Notwithstanding the story lines' focus on the death of a  &quot;typical white female&quot;, I was somewhat disappointed that the  author did not see fit to put at least one positive black male role model  in the book.  After all, I am sure there is one in the New Haven area! Just  reminded me of Nancy Drew novels that I read some 20 years ago. Not  particulary appealing to mature audiences.	2000-04-04
US	51320643	RQXG1MAK93694	0966745000	754303905	Sasha's Way	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Very Different	Although the book is very different, it is a must read for any woman who has been mistreated by a man and has dreamed about some type of vindication.  Although Sasha' s Way is not the way of many, it sure made me feel good to live vicariously through her. I felt better just by reading  it.	2000-04-03
US	51320643	RZJXOBQR6VOOY	0671568949	746446064	Walking Through Mirrors	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	TRULY DESERVES MORE THAN FIVE STARS	This book is an excellent novel written by an incredibly,INCREDIBLY talented and unique author.  I had never heard of thisauthor before but based on his talent, he should be well known. This author excelled where many authors fail. He took the time to develop Jeremy and all of the characters in his book.  This was accomplished by his unique, smooth and successful transition from the present to the past. Who were are in the present is a reflection of what we have been in the past and too often, authors do not take the time to thoroughly develop the past so that the reader can understand the characters in the present.  Equally impressive was his use of language which successfully pulled at the emotional and intellectual heartstrings of the reader.  In this area, his writing was utterly fantastic. Also of significance is that it is clear from reading the novel that the author was incredibly focused and directed. His stream of conciousness and thought was clear, concise and more importantly consistent. This book deals with real life and the real struggles that we have as human beings. The author deals with these issues in a very sincere, credible and honest manner and does not insult to reader by minimizing the importance of any of the issues nor does he end the book with a &quot;quick fix&quot; for those issues. This truly is the story about the end of one life yet the beginning of another. LISTEN UP OPRAH: THIS SHOULD HAVE BEEN ONE OF YOUR SELECTIONS A LONG TIME AGO!  This is a must read for anyone who is interested in reading a book that is well written, thought provoking and emotionally and intellectually challenging. You will NOT be disappointed!	2000-04-01
US	51320643	R1OGHPQIZ9WO5M	0688165133	644196078	Supreme Justice: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Great Fun	I particularly enjoyed this book because I too was born and raised in Detroit and am a practicing attorney now living in California.  The action was great and the plot good.  However, the characters were what made this  book soar.  I loved Danny and his unorthodox ways.  He reminded me of a  &quot;bull in a China shop&quot;. I also liked the character of Moses and  would like to have seen him play a little bit more of a role in the novel.I  also enjoyed the dialogue between the characters.  Although I thought  Marshall was a little too conservative, it was probably necessary given his  profession yet he and Danny played off of each other very well.  TO THE  AUTHOR: I WOULD REALLY LOVE TO SEE A SEQUEL OF THIS NOVEL.	2000-03-30
US	51320643	R3OBVAUP6ZBBK1	0380729768	507436358	Sister	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Somewhat Disappointing	In light of Vinegar Hill, I  was somewhat disappointed in this novel.  Although Vinegar Hill was utterly depressing, I found that it was better written than this novel. Perhaps the authors writing technique had matured  some between this novel and Vinegar Hill or perhaps she had different  editors.   I found this novel to be somewhat disjointed and a little  difficult to read.  The author seemed to jump from one topic to another  sometimes even within the same paragraph. Although there was a  transformation between the parents from the beginning to the end of the  book, I had a difficult time understanding the basis for such a drastic  change in their beliefs and personalities.	2000-03-27
US	51320643	R3RR6SGTEXH6JL	0671034685	199360363	Dead Above Ground	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	FASCINATING	This is one of those books that makes you go &quot;Hum&quot;! I found the discussion of 1940's life in New Orleans very fascinating.  However, that which made the book incredibly intriguing was the portrayal of 3 strong  African American women who were all fighting the same demon but in very  different ways and utilizing very different techniques. Coupled with that  is a little bit of a Stephen King mentality and flair which I thought  brought a certain level of mystique, fascination and drama. This novel  brought back scenes from the novel &quot;Carrie&quot;.  Although there were  some areas that could have used a little more exploration, all in all, I  thought this was one of the most fascinating novels I have read in quite  some time.  Good read and worth the price of a hardcover novel.	2000-03-25
US	51320643	RUL2Q58FE3VMP	052594463X	254044331	All of Me: A Voluptuous Tale	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Diasppointing	Although I found some interesting messages in this book, overall I thought it was somewhat disappointing.  Some of the situations were not fully developed and I was very disappointed that a major event which occurs very  early in the book was treated in an extremely cavalier manner.  I was also  extremely disappointed with the authors portrayal of Serpintine's last  interaction with Carlin.  The nature of her interaction with him and her  response undercut everything Serpentine was supposed to have learned  through her process of self discovery and self love.  It demonstrated that  she really had not learned much about self love and respect.  Wait for the  book in paperback.	2000-03-25
US	51320643	RA6GNOEXIYYUQ	0966435508	766653433	Ties that Bind Way Down Deep	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Definately a New Kind of Novel	Thoroughly enjoyed this novel.  I like reading novels which deal with characters who are dealing with 'life', good and not so good.  Life situations is what this book presented.  Not everyone was happy or content  and there were some real issues presented by this novel.  I could almost  feel the pain Kaj experienced when he recounted the story of what severed  his relationship with Rodney. Likewise, I could understand how Dana's  childhood experiences caused her to be the person she was in the novel (  i.e., no makeup, baggy clothes etc).The author should be commended for  fully exploring and developing these issues and the impact it had on the  characters.  Although some may feel that this is a love story in the  traditional sense, I felt that this was a story about the ultimate love,  which is self love and ultimately self acceptance. One of my favorite parts  was the dialog between Kaj and the homeless man which I felt was the heart  of the novel. Although much easier said than done, we have to let go ( or  resolve) the past in order to live in the present and the future.  Finally,  I also loved the the dialog between Kaj and his mother just before Xmas  dinner. Good read!	2000-03-22
US	51320643	R29MJYENG57GJ3	0525945318	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Slow Start But Worth The Wait	This book was difficult for me to get into at first but I was determined to hang in there and glad that I did.  I found the writing and character development great.  The story however was very sad, particularly what ultimately happens to Sugar and her revelation that she is who she is and 2  weeks won't change it.  However, I loved the way that she stood up for  herself in church just before she left.  Neither the characters or story  line were superficial and seemed to be the product of careful thought and  deliberation.  The only regret is that I wished the lineage between Sugar  and Shirley would have been revealed, if for no other reason than to put  Shirley in her place...does this mean a sequel?   I think there are so  many lessons one can take from this book starting with personal redemption,  judgement, acceptance of people who are different and on to unconditional  love. I loved this book.	2000-03-20
US	51320643	RYAV2212VI61F	0684837412	783204790	ONE MUST WAIT: A NOVEL (Carole Ann Gibson Mysteries)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Supurb Storytelling	If the measure of a good book is that it totally captivates you such that you miss the first 2 (two) boarding calls for a flight out of town, then this a good book.  I absolutely loved the authors ability to draw the  reader into the story and not let them go until the very end. A definate  page turner and left me with my mouth hanging open. (unconciously of  course)  I also loved the talk of New Orleans and the issues surrounding  race, color, Creole vs. Cajun and all of the concpets indigenous to  Louisiana.  I was so impressed with the novel that about 1/2 way through  this book, I immediately ordered her other 2 books.  I truly hope the same  depth and richness are present.   Very, very good book and a must read for  anyone who enjoys suspense, drama and wonderfully descriptive novels .	2000-03-18
US	51320643	R2G1ZIOTH4SOVI	1575664895	824287693	Casting The First Stone	Books	1	13	14	N	Y	DISAPPOINTING NOVEL	Although I commend the author for tackling an important issue of hypocracy within the Baptist church, I felt the author spent much to much time on mundane details and repetitive concepts which ultimately detracted from the  novel.  More significantly however, I think the author should have spent  time discussing the factors and issues which led Curtis to be the person we  see throughout the novel.  The authors failure to discuss or give any  insight whatsoever into what happened during the 8( eight) intervening  years left a significant 'hole' in the storyline. At the conclusion of the  novel, I didn't feel that I had anymore insight into the characters or  storyline than I did when I started the novel.The discussion of situations  faced by the characters seemed to be incredibly disjointed. I did not feel  the author took the time to develop the characters and/or situations in a  meaningful and significant manner.  All in all, very disappointed	2000-03-15
US	51320643	RUG1N4SSCH7V1	0553579568	99818119	No Time to Die (Mali Anderson Mystery)	Books	3	0	2	N	Y	Decent but not great	I thought this was a decent read but not great.  I loved the authors discussion of Harlem but found the storyline was predictable.  In all fairness to the author however, this was the first Mali Anderson mystery novel that I have read. I have subsequently ordered her other novels.  I  think that I was at a disadvantage because I am sure that much of the stuff  referenced in this book went back to her 2 previous Mali Anderson novels.   I look forward to reading those novels next.	2000-03-12
US	51320643	R13JG4AO0N82ZJ	0684857367	718410558	Zachary's Wings: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	EXQUISITE LITERARY DEBUT	This novel was absolutely captivating and I wonder where Ms. Robotbam has been all of my 'literary'life.  Although this novel was pegged as a love story, I found that aspect to be secondary to the story of Zachary and who  he was as a man and the influnces in his life that caused him to be who he  was.  To me, this story was about an African American male with character  and integrity.  I loved the way he interacted with his family and the role  he played within that unit. Although Korie grew up in a society that  determined a person's worth by class,material possessions, etc., Zach's  worth and value as  a human being far outweighed her own. I agree with  Simona, Kori did Zach wrong. The one criticism I have is that although the  author spent a great deal of time describing those qualities which made  Zach a great human being, and thus easy for Korie to fall in love with, I  did not find the same depth and description of Korie's qualities such that  Zach would fall as deeply in love with her as he did.  I was however  impressed by the quality and depth of writing and thought the language was  utterly captivating and magnificantly rich.	2000-03-06
US	51320643	R2MQN8I74LEY2X	0525945237	560440850	Sheer Necessity: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	WELL WRITTEN WITH AN INTERESTING MIX OF CHARACTERS	I really enjoyed this novel.  I felt that the characters presented in this novel were true to form and could be members of anyone's family. Each daughetr found herself tackling heavy issues and in the long run, overcoming those issues and leading a better life. Although each one of the  daughters had their problems with  men, and with themselves for that  matter, I loved the authors portrayal of the depth of the trust, love,  support and respect which existed between the parents and the concentration  on the family unit. Ironically though, the same love support, trust and  respect which sustained the parents marriage for 30+ years, elluded their  daughters. They just don't make things like they used to!  My parents will  celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary next year (God willing). The  effort and hard work necessary, on both of their parts, to sustain their  relationship over the years is something pretty rare.  In any event, I  thought the book was good and a must read for anyone who has strong roots  in family	2000-03-05
US	51320643	R1A4B2RC90S5E8	0380805790	411774905	Until...	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	GOOD STORY AND WELL WRITTEN	I am not an avid reader of love stories but I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. It was not your traditional love story. I could identify with Betty and her relationship with Evander(unfortunately) and I loved the dialogue  between Jacqui and Betty which was contained in chapter 8. More  importantly, the characters were fully developed and the novel dealt with a  wide variety of issues ranging from racism to trust. I would highly  recommend this novel and am eagerly awaiting the release of his next novel.   Great read.	2000-02-28
US	51320643	R3UI0LX50FSATJ	039304680X	523633033	Inner City Blues: A Charlotte Justice Novel (Charlotte Justice Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	OUTSTANDING DEBUT NOVEL	I had a difficult time believing that this was her first novel.  Based on this debut novel, she is an incredibly gifted and talented writer The writing was supurb, the plot flowed, there were absolutely no gaps in the  storyline and most importantly, her characters were fully developed.  She  portrayed Charlotte as strong yet vulnerable and with a good balance of  both.  I am really looking forward to her next Charlotte Justice novel and  hopes she makes reference to the premier eating establishment in  LA....Roscoe's House of Chicken and Waffles!  I can smell the waffles and  chicken wings at this very moment!	2000-02-14
US	51320643	R1E8PX1XUE5MDR	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	NOT ONE OF HIS BEST	When reading this book, I kept thinking of a &quot;Three Stooges&quot; episode. Although the book was somewhat humerous, it lacked the type of depth and meaning found in some of his other novels such as &quot;A Time To  Kill&quot; and &quot;The Testament&quot;.  I thought the ending fell very,  very flat and it appeared that the author was in a hurry to complete the  novel.	2000-02-07
US	51320643	R1E3JVFHNEEPWY	096624690X	740611600	Actions Speak Louder	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	SHOULD BE REQUIRED READING	This book is great and should be required reading for all young teenagers and those women in their early 20's.  I wish someone had written and  given me this book when Iwas 25.  Although I thought that the editor's could have done a better job with the technical editing, what the book lacked in  technical editing was more than made up for in its message and content.  Magnificant debut novel and hopefully the author will maintain her style  and integrity in future novels.	2000-02-04
US	51320643	R1NWKE0BU9XH4Z	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	76	79	N	Y	Very Enjoyable	Before purchasing this book, I read a number of customer reviews on Amazon.com.  The recurring theme was that the book was depressing and that the main character was weak.  Notwithstanding a vast number of 'negative'  reviews, I purchased the book and was pleasantly surprised.  I found that  the only way to fully appreciate the story was to view the situation from  the standpoint of a 30 something year old woman, living in a small  Mid-western farming town, conservative Catholic during the early 1970's.  Essentially, I viewed the book as a story about the struggle of a woman to  establish and preserve her own identity in the face of outside forces i.e.,  family, religion, in-laws, expectations etc. I basically saw is as a  conflict between what she should do as a good &quot;Christian wife and  mother&quot; and what she needed to do as a person and how she ultimately  resolved that conflict. I also saw Ellen as a woman who was trapped by  those outside forces and expections.  Although many reviewers of this book  thought that Ellen was somewhat weak and spineless, I felt that she had an  enormous amount of strength to do what she needed to do in light of the  pressures of outside expectations.  I think that the base example was when  she went to talk to her sister about leaving James.  Her sisters response  was one of shock and disbelief and her sisters advice was to have another  child.  I think that Ellen would truly have been weak if she were not aware  that her life was not right and changes needed to be made.  However, since  she was aware of the problems in her life/marriage and decided to take  steps, particularly at a time when leaving your husband (in the Catholic  religion) was something that women did not do, showed a great deal of  strength.  She knew that if she left her husband, she would have absolutely  no support or understanding from either her family, church, friends, etc.  Her desire to make a better life for herself and her children resulted in  her taking measures such that she and she alone was in control of her life  and destiny as opposed to outside circumstances. Another point that was  interesting was her realization that the killing of the twins was Ann's way  of making sure that Mary Margaret was not trapped.  It was with that  realization that Ellen realized that she was not alone and did not have to  be trappped.  All in all, good book.her taking measures such that she and she alone was in control of her life  and destiny as opposed to outside circumstances. Another point that was  interesting was her realization that the killing of the twins was Ann's way  of making sure that Mary Margaret was not trapped.  It was with that  realization that Ellen realized that she was not alone and did not have to  be trappped.  All in all, good book.	2000-02-01
US	51320643	R3806QOG6DWMB5	0517705869	887180857	The Law of Similars: A Novel	Books	3	11	11	N	N	DECENT READ BUT DISAPPOINTING IN LIGHT OF MIDWIVES	I thought the book was a decent read but fell short of the type of character and plot development exhibited in Midwives.  Good research on the subject of homeopathy but the story line was pretty flat.  Unfortunately,  the ending was pretty weak.  It could have been a very good book given the  subject matter however, it did not appear as if the author took the time to  delve into the characters.  They were pretty much superficial.	2000-01-29
US	51320643	R35VQLY9N67CIU	052594513X	241282354	Gods Go Begging	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	THOROUGHLY CAPTIVATING, EXCEPTIONALLY WELL WRITTEN	I first read a review of this novel in the California Lawyer,a magazine distributed to the legal community in California. As a member of the criminal defense bar in California and an African American woman, I found  the book to be incredibly authentic. Each criminal defendant, from the  &quot;supreme being&quot; to the child molester who received over 100 years  in prison, represents a defendant I have represented in the past 11 years.  More importantly, I found that the book and all of it's 'themes' flowed  together.  The book describes the devestation which occurred in the Vietnam  War and the &quot;babies&quot; which were killed during the war.  It also  accurately portrayed the plight of several Vietnam vets once they came back  to the United States after fighting for 'their country', particularly Mr.  Homeless.  I appreciated and respected the fact that the author took the  time to develop the true impact of the war on those who survived yet never  forgot and will always remember, namely Jesse. I also found the authors  ability to compare the war in Vietnam with the war that is being  waged and  fought every single day in every inner city and every courthouse for   'justice'to be absolutely incredible.  As a criminal defense attorney,  justice is war!  This is probably one of the best books that I have read in  a very long time.  I related most of all to the war stories which always  begin with &quot; I once had a guy.......&quot;	2000-01-25
US	51320643	R1NQLYRM10A45	052594513X	241282354	Gods Go Begging	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	THOROUGHLY CAPTIVATING, EXCEPTIONALLY WELL WRITTEN	I first read a review of this novel in the California Lawyer,a magazine distributed to the legal community in California. As a member of the criminal defense bar in California and an African American woman, I found  the book to be incredibly authentic. Each criminal defendant, from the  &quot;supreme being&quot; to the child molester who received over 100 years  in prison, represents a defendant I have represented in the past 11 years.  More importantly, I found that the book and all of it's 'themes' flowed  together.  The book describes the devestation which occurred in the Vietnam  War and the &quot;babies&quot; which were killed during the war.  It also  accurately portrayed the plight of several Vietnam vets once they came back  to the United States after fighting for 'their country', particularly Mr.  Homeless.  I appreciated and respected the fact that the author took the  time to develop the true impact of the war on those who survived yet never  forgot and will always remember, namely Jesse. I also found the authors  ability to compare the war in Vietnam with the war that is being  waged and  fought every single day in every inner city and every courthouse for   'justice'to be absolutely incredible.  As a criminal defense attorney,  justice is war!  This is probably one of the best books that I have read in  a very long time.  I related most of all to the war stories which always  begin with &quot; I once had a guy.......&quot;	2000-01-25
US	51320643	RVY957ZGIXEP2	0060172789	247910624	A Long Way From Home	Books	4	2	4	N	N	DIFFICULT SUBJECT MATTER BUT A GOOD READ	I bought this book 3 months before I read it because I had to gear up to read a book about slavery.  However, once I started the book, I could not put it down. I thought the delivery and writing were great and was pleased  to see the strength of the women involved.  I was slightly disappointed in  the language of some of the characters, particularly Oliver which I thought  was too contemporary for that historical period.  I also would liked to  have seen more development of certain situations, namely the death of  George and it's impact on Susan, as well as the the circumstances  surrounding the pregnancy of Clara i.e, rape, consent in exchange for some  benefit etc. I thought there was a big gap in that area.  With that said, I  think that the book is ripe for a sequel and would like to see a second  novel based on the newfound relationship between Ellen and her sister  Susan, and their lives after they reunite. I also think that instead of  Oprah Winfrey spending 10 million and 10 years on a production of Beloved (  I like Toni Morrison but she is difficult to read and Beloved was way too  complicated to even think about making into a movie) she should take a look  at this book and think about a made for T.V. movie.  After all, this book  to a certain extent talks about the struggles and strenghts of African  American women.	2000-01-23
US	51320643	R1EUAZQOACCRVX	0446675482	649812238	Getting to the Good Part	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	FUNNY, LAUGH OUT LOUD BUT IMPRACTIBLE ENDING	I thought this book was absolutely hilarious.The characters actually reminded me of some &quot;sistah&quot; girlfriends that I have.  In that respect, it was pretty realistic and authentic. From a practical standpoint  however, I thought the ending was somewhat impractical.  The basis of the  relationship between Dandre and Neesy ( from her perspective at least) was  one based on deception, manipulation and revenge.  Based on her behavior  with Helmut, there was no reason for Dandre to trust Reesy again. In real  life, she would have been SOL! The most poignant line in the book was when  Dandre says to Neesy &quot; I'm saddened by the fact that I believed in  something that was never really there.  I hate to think  that a part of me  that was once very trusting and very much alive will never be that way  again&quot;. I think the ending would have been better and more realistic  if it had been consistent with the above statement.	2000-01-06
