US	51329799	R15ZDWI5VWTS2S	0425059367	887907548	Masques	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Great Potential for a Good Book -- Page Turner	The plot is already outlined in several other reviews on this book.<br />My impressions of the book:<br />The 'action' or 'hook' doesn't start until about page 28.<br />Once it starts, the reader does have an inclination to want to know what is going to happen to the hapless protagonist, and the reader does start to feel sorry for him as the book progresses.<br />I was absolutely dissapointed in the ending -- it was pretty lame.<br />I think the author could have benefited by making Mona, the helpful woman that the protagonist hooks up with, either more mysterious herself, or give more clues about her past (although when the author described how her first husband died, I had an inkling).<br />Other reviewers noted that Mr. Pronzini had other books out that were even better and this was not a sample of his best work -- remember, even your worst work has to be great for others to be interested in all your other writings.	2004-02-08
US	51329799	R2GZ94YYPEPN9C	0743460529	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Getting Better in Each Book	While MHC's books seem to start falling into a recognizable pattern of events for plot and action, her writing style is getting better and better.<br />When I first starting reading MHC books, I thought the writing somewhat immaturish, but she has improved in leaps and bounds with her style, substance, and maturity of details and realistic settings.<br />This is definitely a great read -- recommend wholeheartedly!	2004-02-08
US	51329799	R29EWNNWZGXGLO	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	68	88	N	Y	WOW -- better than The Da Vinci Code!	Like other readers of the Da Vinci Code, I wanted to read other books written by Dan Brown.  What surprised me was that the Angels and Demons book wasn't the book that took him to the top of the NYT best seller's list.<br />I read the Da Vinci Code and probably rate it as a 4 in reading and excitement.  I rate A&D a 5.  This book clipped along in such a breathless speed of action, suspense, and drama that I was up into the wee hours of the morning, my eyelids drooping, too into the plot to put the book down.<br />The only part of the book that I was somewhat dissapointed in was when two characters jumped out of a helicopter that was supposedly 1 - 3 miles up in the air, neither seemed to have parachutes, but both survived and landed in very convenient spots for the plot.  That tiny part of the plot was not at all believable, but I forgive Mr. Brown because the rest of the book was so absolutely delicious.<br />What delighted me even more -- just as I thought the climax had been reached (and for the most part, it was the major climax), there were a few more minor climaxes.  (I was wondering why there were another hundred pages or so after the best part of the book!).<br />I think that last scene (Chapter 137) in the book was insisted upon by market driven publishers who felt that all good books had to have a gratuitious sex scene to make the book complete.<br />Come on -- 'publishing industry' -- wake up!  An awesome, potentially best-seller book can be considered 'complete' and 'marketable' without a sex scene.  This scene wasn't even necessary to make me want to lean back and smoke a cigarette afterwards from the book's overall excitement.<br />There are the first few chapters of Dan Brown's next book, \\"Deception Point\\" in the back of the paperback A&D book I had.  I can't wait to buy that next book to see what exciting plots and twists have been devilishly written by Mr. Brown.	2004-02-08
US	51329799	R1ZXXWHYDNVIZ0	0061093491	802931571	Dead in the Water	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dead in the Water is Not A Dead Story	...  The author was effective in keeping my attention because not only was there the suspense of the sexual tension, she threaded the suspense of trying to find the real murderer throughout the novel.	2004-01-24
US	51329799	R19M8NLB0Y5RB0	0312978634	796172842	A Cold Hard Trail (Kid Parmlee Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Delightful Western Tale Even if You Don't Like Westerns	I can't remember how I stumbled across this book -- perhaps via a writing group online where I talked to the author.  Let me say, I am not a fan of western literature, but was curious about the author and what he wrote.<br />What a delightful tale!  The story was written in a first person viewpoint, with the narrator telling a tale about how he got into trouble while trying to stay an honest man, just for being good with a gun.<br />The story is told in a \\"Western Dialect\\" you would expect from a \\"Good Old Boy\\" who didn't have but a few years of education, and while writer's schools proclaim this is just a terrible writing style, in this story, it works!<br />Kid Parmlee, often compared to \\"Billy The Kid,\\" is trying to live quietly, avoiding all the relatives of some folks back home (Hatfield versus McCoy) bent on revenge, while simultaneously getting caught up when accused of robbing a bank, then later killing a few folks.  It's a case of mistaken identity.  It's not long before he gets into more trouble.<br />What is delightful are several of the sections of the book where humor is brought in, and you find yourself cackling and grinning with some of the solutions Kid Parmlee comes up with to get as far away from trouble as possible.<br />The story/book is loaded with colorful characters, the very few sex (scenes) are gracefully/subtley inserted in just the right places without any graphic details.<br />The story was just a delight to read and the back cover of the book noted that author, Robert J. Conley is a member of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokees.  He is author of over 40 books, so I definitely want to explore some more of his stories -- especially about Kid Parmlee!<br />Definitely a treat -- try it, you'll like it whether you are a Western Novel fan or not.	2004-01-21
US	51329799	R1E225F0NHKNV6	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	5	24	30	N	Y	Thought Provoker - Whether Atheist or Born-Again	I was watching the History's Channel's story about the \\"Lost Books of the Gospel\\" and after the show searched Amazon and came across this text.  I was raised a Baptist, was very uncomfortable with formalized religion all my life, and hated the thought that women were so 'low' in the hierarchy of any of the organized religions.  Now I know why.<br />I believe in a higher being / creator spirit, and felt it had to be a female, and this book has actually validated my inner beliefs.<br />What I find interesting about this book -- the authors have documented and foot-noted, and appendixed it beyond the call of duty.  If either author makes a statement or supposition in the text, they back it up with anywhere from 1 - 3 various other publications, authorities, and/or writings and documentations from other sources.<br />The authors don't come out and say \\"Jesus was a fake.\\"  But, the more I read, the more I feel that the Christian church has pulled one of the biggest con games in history.  If they aren't pulling a con, then let the Vatican open up it's library to the public and prove the authors and the public and the Templars wrong!<br />Chapter One and Two of this book are fascinating -- I can see the 'true' details of the story plot used by the author of \\"The DaVinci Code\\" and information he may have lifted directly from the Templar Revolution book (in fact some passages seem almost word-for-word duplicative).<br />The rest of the Chapters in the book are very scholarly in their detail, but with effort one can follow along the logic and suppositions the authors draw from their research.<br />The last chapter is the mind-blower, when all their conclusions are summarized - their theory - Jesus was a usurper of John the Baptist, quite possibly from Egypt, a magician, Mary Magdeline was either Jesus' wife or consort/priestess, and the possibility that Jesus' rise to the top was politically motivated to include murder to get that one last obstacle out of the way to his reaching the top of his preaching pinnacle.  (Although the authors only theorized this possibility, didn't agreed or confirmed that theory.)<br />Although I normally stick with fiction, this book held my fascination throughout the end -- even the appendix and footnotes have interesting tidbits.<br />The only negative thing I can say is the detailed French related research, with (to me) obscure French names were difficult to wade through and keep straight.<br />Kudos to the authors -- I'd love to read more of your research!e top of his preaching pinnacle.  (Although the authors only theorized this possibility, didn't agreed or confirmed that theory.)<BR>Although I normally stick with fiction, this book held my fascination throughout the end -- even the appendix and footnotes have interesting tidbits.  <BR>The only negative thing I can say is the detailed French related research, with (to me) obscure French names were difficult to wade through and keep straight. <BR>Kudos to the authors -- I'd love to read more of your research!	2004-01-14
US	51329799	R3FBAP287KF7H4	1880284626	284302414	HOW TO WRITE KILLER FICTION	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Killer Cookbook for Murder, Mystery &amp; Suspense Writers	If you are looking for the best how to write 'whodunit' source book in the entire world, this is it.  Don't walk, don't dawdle, RUN and get this book.<br />I haven't, to my knowledge, read any of Carolyn Wheat's books, but she has the best analytical mind when it comes to disecting what makes other author's books 'work.'  She breaks down each factor, gives marvelous samples in current and ancient works (myths), and then lays out the roadmap.<br />If you are a struggling writer trying to write that perfect murder mystery or suspense thriller, this cookbook will teach you how to lay out the story line, point out what 'holes' you may have in your story before you write the words down, then guide you down the path to doing it 'right.'<br />Try this book and study it from cover to cover, then sit down and write your story, then use this book to look back over your plot to see if it fits in with the recipe.  If you can't get it to work, then maybe writing isn't what you need to be doing.<br />I have read dozens of books on 'how to write' and after Lawrence Block's books that give great advice, I would rank this one as number one on my list.  And, I intend the book to stay on my bookshelf forever!	2003-10-24
US	51329799	R1118HGHP7HHPT	0374515360	212905383	The Complete Stories (FSG Classics)	Books	3	23	110	N	Y	Why Stories Like This are Considered Literary	Since I couldn't afford to go back to school to get my Masters, I thought it might be wise to obtain the required reading list and read myself through an alternate education.  One on the list was Flannery O'Connor.<br />After reading through this book, I had an epiphany as to why so many writers win the big prizes such as the Pulitzer for fiction--you take average or stupider than average people, throw a common sense question or decision (to be made) in the mix, and watch the characters make the wrong decision and come out at the end either wiser, still stupid, or scratching their heads not knowing what the hell hit them.<br />In many of Flannery O'Connor's stories, this is essentially the plot.  Many, if not all, of the characters are from the South, call African-American's the 'N' word without apology or hesitation, defines the era in which the story was written, and certainly perpetuates the myth folks from the South are illiterate, stupid, and don't have the common sense God gave a gnat.<br />A critic praised her (quote) 'stories that burn bright, and strike deep.'  Flannery O'Connor wrote stories where stupid people make stupid mistakes and I was pretty disappointed in the whole set of stories overall.  While her story-telling abilities are a little higher than average, I don't agree that her plots or story lines are as valuable as the kudos give her from other literary critiques.<br />If you are interesting in 'entertainment' type reading, this book is definitely not for you.  If you are interested in The South as it used to be, from a native Southerner's point of view, and some interesting stories (overall) with deep literary and moral undertones that you have to re-read more than once to grasp, then this type of book will definitely appeal to your academic standards.<br />While her stories may have been 'important' half a century ago by reflecting the sad, uneducated, and prejudiced thinking of the people of the South, I believe that the world has made broad strides in their thinking, education, and literacy and has moved beyond her stories and her way of thinking.broad strides in their thinking, education, and literacy and has moved beyond her stories and her way of thinking.	2003-10-20
US	51329799	R1AEPPINB0878A	039912439X	481827525	Suspicions	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Suspicions Takes a While to Build	The novel is a typical 'hard-boiled' female (married) lawyer who has \\"been wronged\\" and has to set things right for the sake of the children.<br />The beginning of the novel starts rather slowly, but only until when her husband turns out to be missing does the curious reader want to plug ahead to see what happens next.<br />Add to the plot too many characters without any major distinguishing characterics and names that the reader can't be 'comfortable' enough to recognize throughout the books, whether they are a friend or foe, and then have the female protagonist start jumping into bed with several of them (never mind that she just supposedly lost her husband of 12-15 [?] years, the father of her children!) -- gosh, how to keep the characters straight, much less the plot!<br /><br />Next, the female protagonist is darting all about Geneva, Switzerland meeting new (more but more interesting) \\"underground/political' characters. The only ones that stands out is the personable dressmaker and the female French underground spy.  Now, add in a little anti-semitism, Nazi revolutionalists and United States politics and by the end of the book, she walks away from a heavily guarded fortress and later the mysterious man who she's fallen in love with (I'm still asking to myself -- why?-- there wasn't even a memorable description of him, but I got the fleeting impression she was six inches taller than him.) You can get really confused trying to figure out all the characters and guessing at the plot.<br />Since the book is selling for only a few cents used on AMAZON, it might be worth the P&H to check it out for a relaxed beach read, but unfortunately, I won't be looking for her other novels unless I can get them cheap at a yard sale.  If the author started out with a good plot and great characters, then the editor mangled this book beyond redemption.	2003-10-08
US	51329799	R1RYWE8SR47EVD	0425178803	833031712	Gunning for Regret	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	No Regret for this Plot	I am NOT a reader of western novels, but in a Writer's Online group, one of the members noted they had written westerns under a psudenym of Wolf MacKenna.  I thought it would be cool to read one of the books to see how well the author wrote.<br />I was pleasantly surprised.  The characters are 'real' and have a life of their own.  The plot, while simple, moved along swiftly and dramatically.  ANd, luckily for me, their was a pivotal ending, crisis averted, and everyone lived happily ever after.<br />This book is definitely worth picking up and the 217 pages should be only a night or two worth of reading for speed readers.<br />Definitely a good pick for a casual reader with (or without) western tastes in reading.	2003-10-01
US	51329799	R2HYIRERZBU8FO	1582971439	181149960	Lessons from a Lifetime of Writing: A Novelist Looks at His Craft	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Read Now -- Don't Wait A Lifetime to Learn	Great book for any budding author, or one who can't quite figure out what they are doing wrong and why they are getting so many rejection slips!<br />Great read, wonderful advice.	2003-09-17
US	51329799	R1NP76ZKVE0E4I	1582971021	584743433	Writing Mysteries	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Do NOT Wait to Get This Book If You Want to Writer Mysteries	WOW!  I just finished reading this book and I NEVER read a book twice, but I plan on going back and re-reading every chapter in this book at least twice to make sure I didn't miss anything in the first go-round.<br />This chapters in this book are written by some of the best Mystery writers in America (hence the title) but what they divulge in each chapter, informationwise, is worth it's weight in gold (or in budding mystery writers--worth it's weight in editor's advice, author's hints to getting printed, and agents dreams for all their best selling authors).<br />Don't wait until this book can be purchased used -- buy it new at full-price now--you won't regret it.  Then read each chapter, high-light the good points, then go back and re-read a chapter or two often.<br />My favorite and most rich in information chapter was the one near the end describing what agents do for writers in terms of monetary contracts, how hard-copy versus soft-copy books will enrich you one way or the other, and there's even a chapter on e-printing that shared lots of neat little pieces of information.<br />But, the best thing about this book is you feel like the Mystery Authors who contributed a chapter each were sitting next to you, telling you little secrets about writing and the industry that they were only telling you so you could succeed and get ahead of all the others.  And they were all very encouraging, positive thinking, essays.<br />Sue Grafton edited the book and my hat is off to you Ms. Grafton--I have read every one of your Kinsey Milhoune books A-Q, and if you don't get R out soon, I'm going to die!<br />Highly advise buying this book if you are aspiring to be a Mystery Writer in any genre.	2003-09-16
US	51329799	R34BQ4A4QB4SF0	1582971315	404717355	Urge to Kill: How Police Take Homicide from Case to Court	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Title Misleads Information in Book to a Degree	OK, you see I've rated it a four star, but the title of this review makes you think I thought the book title was misleading.<br />The books is probably one of the most fascinating books dealing with crime that I've come across in over a year of researching homicide as a budding writer.  There are colorful, four-color photographs (most full page) on almost every page.<br />The Title of the book &quot;How police take homicide from case to court&quot; seems a little misleading for the content of the book.  I believe there is a companion book to this one, but I'll be willing to bet that book is almost duplicative to the information in this book.<br />This book does give some fascinating evidence information, and general tips on what police do in general to determine certain factors before, during and after a crime.  But this information is spread throughout the book so you have to read every page to get a complete picture.  Another thing that bothered me is sometimes the (editor) has interposed a 'set aside' of one to two pages, interupting a subject that was half-way through discussion on one page, but isn't picked up until three pages later, and confusing the reader making them think the printer bungled the order of pages.<br />The positive note of this book is the highlight (1-2 pages) of major homicides, the murderer's in concise, to the point, summary descriptions.  Each chapter in the book focuses on various types and aspects of murders: 1) Murder Basics, 2) Means to Murder, 3) Motive, 4) Solving Murders, 5) Murder Inspired by Fiction (author was really 'reaching' in this chapter, but came up with some fascinating points/cases), Glossary: The Languange of Murder.<br />All-in-All, I would advise buying this book because of the fascinating content.  The author did a suppurb (sp?) job of finding photos for almost every single case that he notedin this book, and the effort for that alone was worth the compilation of the book.<br />What was really interesting to me was that he even touched base on the Southside Strangler case in Richmond, Virginia, which was covered nationally, but died down in the media quickly once Timothy Spencer was caught.  I was living in the city at the time, and like every other female in the city, absolutely terrified to walk around alone.  Then later I found out that I had been in the house next door to one of his victims--talk about getting the creeps reading about that evil man again--even 16 years later.  But, the author had all the facts correct as I remember them, so I believe that the facts he compiled on the other homocides were as correct as one could get in his research.<br />Definitely a great book to put on your bookshelf if you are a crime 'novice' studying homicide or a writer preparing to learn a little about the industry itself.  I definitely learned a lot without having to struggle through all the mudane facts at once--the profiles spread throughout the book illustrating the points he was teaching were definitely an ingenious way of putting a learning tool together.me was that he even touched base on the Southside Strangler case in Richmond, Virginia, which was covered nationally, but died down in the media quickly once Timothy Spencer was caught.  I was living in the city at the time, and like every other female in the city, absolutely terrified to walk around alone.  Then later I found out that I had been in the house next door to one of his victims--talk about getting the creeps reading about that evil man again--even 16 years later.  But, the author had all the facts correct as I remember them, so I believe that the facts he compiled on the other homocides were as correct as one could get in his research. <br />Definitely a great book to put on your bookshelf if you are a crime 'novice' studying homicide or a writer preparing to learn a little about the industry itself.  I definitely learned a lot without having to struggle through all the mudane facts at once--the profiles spread throughout the book illustrating the points he was teaching were definitely an ingenious way of putting a learning tool together.	2003-09-16
US	51329799	R1V32G3VX8JFDE	0684873753	115517535	Details at Ten	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Black Ya-Ya Sister Revealed as Character in This Book	I bought this book at Dollar Tree and it was the best book I ever purchased for a buck.  (I'm sure the author didn't want to read about that, but I'm here to give her a plug anyway, so maybe more readers will buy this book and others brand new from Amazon.com...)<br />The plot of the book was decent -- a black, female news reporter involved in getting the 'story first' dives nose first into a drive-by shooting incident in a gang-ridden neighborhood with which she is too familiar, then afterwards steps in deeper when she finds out she is the cause of a kidnapping.<br />What really drove me deeper into this book was the colorful language (not smutty, but creative).  The wording really drove home that this was a 'Sister' telling the story, not just another writer trying to come across as African American.<br />I believe that the author is successful in showing the reader the conflict the female reporter encounters everyday in her dog-eat-reporter world of media TV news, her emotions as she gets deeper into a story than she wanted to, and romance as she hooks up with a Police Detective who reads (between the lines) like a 'Chippendale Model.'<br />What was interesting to me was she seemed to fill out all the African-American characters to a very believeable extent, but the Caucasion characters that she described -- they seemed somewhat 'colorless' as characters per se in the book (no pun intended).<br />Ardella Garland has written other books: 'Falling Leaves of Ivy,' 'He Say, She Say,' 'Bebe's by Golly Wow,' and 'This Just In.'  I'd be interested in reading some of her other books just to see what type of writing style she's brought from those books to this one.<br />I would recommend this book highly, mainly because of the interesting writing style that the author uses.  Reminds me of a Black Ya-Ya Sister(hood) and maybe she'll be lucky enough to get a Movie of the Week made from this or even better, a series on TV.  I would watch just because of the interesting character this reporter, Georgia, seems to be.<br />Ardella -- good luck at making it with more of your novels!character this reporter, Georgia, seems to be.<br />Ardella -- good luck at making it with more of your novels!	2003-09-16
US	51329799	R2SCH5HVYDE9S	0898799074	626227688	Conflict, Action & Suspense (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Fledging Suspense Story Writers -- Must Read!	I was looking for good, solid pointers on how to write a supsense novel, and this book did the trick. The writing in the books is concise, gets to the point without a lot pontificating by the author and samples for every point are provided that are easy to understand, and easy to recreate by any imaginative writer.  I yellow-highlighted my book throughout, then went back and typed up the point notes.  I'm going to use those point notes when I write my next suspense novel!<br />Highly recommended reading for the aspiring writer.	2003-08-02
US	51329799	R31V234I69IFI6	0345452038	360846379	The Forensic Casebook: The Science of Crime Scene Investigation	Books	5	26	28	N	N	CSI Forensics 101	Of all the Forensics books I've struggled through in the past compared to this one--this was one of the most enjoyable reads I've had in a long time.  The most interesting facet of this book is it uses anecdotes from the CSI shows to illustrate the point that is being described in the book.  There is just enought detail to give you the basics, without overwhelming you with technical jargo.<br />If you are a mystery writer, this book should be on your resources bookshelf for quick lookups to check and validate your facts.  It could also be a great source book for murder plot ideas.	2003-07-25
US	51329799	RKYSCI23MKBMJ	0967507405	448405136	When The Peaches Get Ripe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bitter Sweet Story - Historical /Genealogy	I picked this book up from a popular restaurant on the middle penisula of Virginia looking for something to read from the local area with historical flavor.  What I ended up with was a bittersweet love story of a Civil War Soldier.  Lt. Robert Gaines Haile, Jr. was a good looking man, and devoted to the cause.  He joined the Esex Sharpshooters to do his duty, and was wounded in battle and died with his wife in attendance.  While you hear of thousands of husbands, brothers, fathers and sons that died in the Civil War, this small book brings home the story poignently, while simultaneously describing in great historical detail the geographic area, the people around him, and the battles he encountered.  The descendant who wrote the books with Mr. Haile's compiled letters did an excellent job of gathering many factual details, photos, and maps of what his ancestor was describing.<br />Highly recommended for a tour through history from someone who actually was in the middle of the action and literate enough to write about it.	2003-07-23
US	51329799	R85QQL5G8BBYN	0898793262	330531230	Spider, Spin Me a Web	Books	3	7	10	N	Y	How To Writers Book	This book was written by one of the most prolific writers of our age-Lawrence Block.  While I haven't read many of his fiction books, I have read a few of his 'how-to write' books.<br />He does have a conversational tone in his 'how to write' books, so you have to plow through a lot of verbage to get to the good points.  I think that was basically to flesh out the book to bring it up to 250 pages.<br />If you can read fast and get through the extra verbage, this book does have some very good points to keep in mind when writing a book of Fiction, which if you use, would make your own story more interesting.	2003-07-21
US	51329799	RM2W94GI6K84T	1582971420	644572832	Pocket Muse: Ideas and Inspirations for Writing	Books	5	9	9	N	N	WOW -- great tool for writers	This little book is a wonder in itself.  It is a combination book of philosopy, book of poetry, and book of inspirational ideas.<br />It doesn't spell out a whole scene on every page that you are encouraged to write out yourself like other idea books...it gives you a tiny snippet of an idea that you can springboard off into your own writing journey.<br />It does have some neat little stories and poems that are less than 1 1/2 pages long, has gorgeous black and white pictures that can prompt your imagination into a story or memory of your own, and the subtle, gentle push by the author through out the book for you to go ahead and 'take the plunge, write...!&quot; is ambiguous enough to not sound like your mother nagging at you to get a chore done.<br />I like the fact the book is small--five x seven inches--and easily thrown into a purse or coat pocket.<br />Well done, Ms. Wood!	2003-07-21
US	51329799	R12U2N3YXN06V9	0671536117	184766591	Fire Cops: On the Case with  America's Arson Investigators	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good Informational Book	If you are a rank amateur and just want to get some really interesting facts and information based on 'model' fires that occurred in real life, this book is a great book to start with.<br />I purchased the book with an interest in just enough details to allow me to 'talk the language' in a book I am writing where an arson investigator is one of the characters.<br />I think you'll find this book as fascinating as I did.	2003-07-21
US	51329799	R2X6WXXNXT2EEH	0130604585	374167029	Kirk's Fire Investigation (5th Edition)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Good Research Book	I bought this book as a step in investigating fires and arson steps of investigation in writing a novel.  It does have a lot of good information, but it's very generalized--not specific.  Good for the amateur fire sleuth that wants to get enought information to be able to 'talk the language.'	2003-07-21
US	51329799	R3R5P1U1UQVY20	0877790426	615146603	Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	WOW-- Great Research Book	I bought this book because it was one of the recommendations by Writer's Digest to get a large resource in a compact package that gives descriptions of most of the worlds most known authors and what they have written.  I had no idea how jam-packed it is with information.  Highly recommended as a textbook for all English Majors and/or wanna-be writers!	2003-07-21
US	51329799	R1DX45FUYJKT16	0345413903	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	IT TOOK 1/2 THE BOOK TO GET EXCITING>>>	Since the other reviewers have pretty much given away the plot, I'll focus on other aspects of the novel:<br />I have read one other Jonathon Kellerman book, and when I started to read this one, long after the first, I recognized the Alex Delaware character and thought --- Oh, no, that boring character.  What hooked me was Milo, the 'partner' in detecting the criminal who-dunit.  Milo's character was far more interesting, expanded and three dimensional than the Alex Delaware character...and honestly Mr. Kellerman...when are you going to write a series devoted to Milo?  Alex Delaware seems to be guided around like a puppet, but Milo's charater has self-direction, exciting follow-up, and things happening to him versus the 'oh feel sorry for me, because my girlfriend left me' Alex's character.<br />I have to admit that I struggled to stay with this book through the first half, but it did get more interesting and had far more action in the second half of the book.  There were way too many guilty 'bad guys' as the murderers and I found myself getting confused in the first part of the book when more and more 'bad guys' were introduced.<br />The positive things about this book is Mr. Kellerman's descriptions.  He can make you feel like you are right there in the room with the characters, breathing and smelling and touching everything before them.  Mr. Kellerman does have a wonderful sense of segueing back and forth between time lines and history, and a wonderful sense of dialogue between characters.  I felt myself getting tense when Alex Delaware had telephone conversations with his girlfriend who had fled their situation (his girlfriend knows he was a shallow, selfish character, too--I'd have left him also) by taking a traveling rock concert job (still have no clue as to what specifically she did in the concert job), and was definitely feeling the sexual tension crackle between the psychiatrist he talked to about the murder and a possible second victim at dinner.<br />Anyway, if you can find the book at a reasonable price, and you have read and liked the characters in the previous books, go ahead and get this one.  Like the other reviewers state, Mr. Kellerman is getting better at his craft, he just needs to flesh out Alex Deleware into a more exciting and three dimensional character so the other characters in the novel(s) don't steal the show!, if you can find the book at a reasonable price, and you have read and liked the characters in the previous books, go ahead and get this one.  Like the other reviewers state, Mr. Kellerman is getting better at his craft, he just needs to flesh out Alex Deleware into a more exciting and three dimensional character so the other characters in the novel(s) don't steal the show!	2003-07-21
US	51329799	R2X94COMYSKS2Z	0898798159	508136701	Dynamic Characters: How to Create Personalities That Keep Readers Captivated	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Dynamic Reading for Dynamic Writers on Dynamic Characters	WOW is the first thing I thought of after I swiftly devoured Mr. Kress' material in this book.  As a budding writer, I am very determined to make my characters the alsolute best they can be to reduce the initial onslaught of rejections once I start marketing my book.  One of the other reviewers for this book noted writers should keep this book open while writing to get the most for your characters--I agree 110%.<br />I have plowed through some reslly dull 'writer's how-to' books over the past year, and this one is the cherry of the crop.  I would run, not walk, to your nearest book-seller (if you plan to write stories with realistic characters) and get this book immediately.  I can't say enough good things about it.	2003-07-14
US	51329799	R2ACVQRX72QHTR	0877953341	20683425	Telling Lies for Fun and Profit	Books	3	18	22	N	Y	Telling Lies -- The Author or the Publisher?	I recently ordered and received Lawrence Block's book, 'Writing the Novel From Plot to Print.'  IF you are very serious about writing a novel, this small book provides some thoughtful, though verbose information on tips and tricks and should and shouldn't's.<br />In the same order package, I purchased 'Telling Lies for Fun and Profit -- A Manuel for Fiction Writers.' I was very dissapointed to find that the second book was an almost verbatim version of the 'Writing the Novel...' book.<br />Keeping that in mind, if/when you order either of the books, go for the cheapest used version you can get of either because Mr. Block tells the same anecdotes, the same thoughts, and information in both books--almost verbatim.<br />I just wish that on either of the books information, either in Amazon or Printer's Editorial/Description, it would have been noted that the first book was a rewrite of the second (or vice versa).<br />As to the value of the information that is provided in either book--it's OK, but nothing earthshattering that will help you write a blockbuster novel.  The text itself reads easily, as if you were having a conversation with Mr. Block in the same room.  Very friendly and easy to understand--nothing you would need a college degree to comprehend.	2003-06-24
US	51329799	R1OAAOXJJP9YNH	0898792088	347676060	Writing the Novel: From Plot to Print	Books	3	109	111	N	Y	Writing the Novel or Rewriting an Earlier Publication	I recently ordered and received Lawrence Block's book, 'Writing the Novel From Plot to Print.' IF you are very serious about writing a novel, this small book provides some thoughtful, though verbose information on tips and tricks and should and shouldn't's.<br />In the same order package, I purchased 'Telling Lies for Fun and Profit -- A Manuel for Fiction Writers.' I was very dissapointed to find that the second book was an almost verbatim version of the 'Writing the Novel...' book.<br />Keeping that in mind, if/when you order either of the books, go for the cheapest used version you can get of either because Mr. Block tells the same anecdotes, the same thoughts, and information in both books--almost verbatim.<br />I just wish that on either of the books information, either in Amazon or Printer's Editorial/Description, it would have been noted that the first book was a rewrite of the second (or vice versa).<br />As to the value of the information that is provided in either book--it's OK, but nothing earthshattering that will help you write a blockbuster novel. The text itself reads easily, as if you were having a conversation with Mr. Block in the same room. Very friendly and easy to understand--nothing you would need a college degree to comprehend.	2003-06-24
US	51329799	R263WCK38NLRQA	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Rapture of Canaan a Delightful, Unexpected Read...	Sheri Reynold's Rapture of Canaan title gave me the initial imporession it would be a 'hardship' survival, tell all book about an excape from a cult.  It was totally unexpected when I started to read a story about a young girl and her life within this 'self-developed' sect, her comfort in growing up with her immediate family, under the strict guidance of her preacher grandfather and her story-telling grandmother.  Her entire family showed that they loved her and other members of the family within the sect and even though their life-style might have been considered 'harsh' by outsiders, they felt they lived a 'good' life.<br />The young protagonist's 'surprise' pregnancy came about from the Church and her parents failure to communicate properly to her about the birds and bees and her misinterpretation of the \\"Rapture\\" the members of the church were constantly seeking.<br />There is death and sadness, happiness and love, events that occur for the better and worse, but the entire story is beautifully written.  I couldn't put the book down, the story line was so interesting and didn't want to wait to see 'what happened next.'<br />This book would be a very good read for anyone looking for a good story that emphasizes family love and devotion in the face of life's hardships.	2002-12-30
US	51329799	R3RU92681EZK64	0312180381	229677781	Alligator Dance: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Alligator Dance...Stories that Dance in Your Head	Alligator Dance is a collection of stories by Janet Perry which introduce you to the Mexican culture and 'south of the border' mentality of a palette of colorful characters.<br />South Padre (Story 1) shows what happens to character, Jesse Folcher, when he can't love the one he's with and what results in the end.<br />Alligator Dance (Story 2) is written from a child's point of view on the aspect of the child's encounter with another child who is an outsider.  Anyone who had grown up with 'unique' friends will recognise the disjointed and confusing thinking.<br />The Waco Wego (Story 3) brings back memories of \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" when the child's father, who is a lawyer, works at attempting to help a local woman's son who committed a heinous crime.<br />Mountains, Roads, The Tops of Trees (Story 4) is a love story, compacting a lifetime into a graceful gesture before death.<br />Nosotros (Story 5)is a chapter excerpt that was developed into a beautiful 'love/hate' relationship story between two women in \\"A River Beyond the World.\\"<br />Whitewing (Story 6) is a story about subconcious prejudice that develops into concious hatred.<br />Huevos (Story 7) is a story about a young man who takes action against events beyond his control and the realization that only running way will solve his own issues.<br />What the Thunder Said (Story 8) tells a story about a young woman who assumes too much, takes too much, and looses everything at the end.<br />Job's Daughters (Story 9) shows how cousins from two different cultures can come together as a family when there is a need.<br />Daughter of the Moon (Story 10) shows that the difference between two grandmothers can be a good thing or a bad thing, depending upon what a child remembers.<br />All these stories are beautifully written, give glimpses into different cultures or your own mind, where discoveries are made because of similar patterns of thinking.<br />You will come away from this book feeling pleasantly surprised and entertained and wanting to think over the stories, perhaps reading them again to see what other lessons can be gained.  I highly recommend this book for those looking for deep meaning for life and a variety of viewpoints.ting to think over the stories, perhaps reading them again to see what other lessons can be gained.  I highly recommend this book for those looking for deep meaning for life and a variety of viewpoints.	2002-12-30
US	51329799	R2KCSU1C7JKKG2	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Rapture of Canaan a Delightful, Unexpected Read...	Sheri Reynold's Rapture of Canaan title gave me the initial imporession it would be a 'hardship' survival, tell all book about an excape from a cult.  It was totally unexpected when I started to read a story about a young girl and her life within this 'self-developed' sect, her comfort in growing up with her immediate family, under the strict guidance of her preacher grandfather and her story-telling grandmother.  Her entire family showed that they loved her and other members of the family within the sect and even though their life-style might have been considered 'harsh' by outsiders, they felt they lived a 'good' life.  <BR>The young protagonist's 'surprise' pregnancy came about from the Church and her parents failure to communicate properly to her about the birds and bees and her misinterpretation of the \\"Rapture\\" the members of the church were constantly seeking.  <BR>There is death and sadness, happiness and love, events that occur for the better and worse, but the entire story is beautifully written.  I couldn't put the book down, the story line was so interesting and didn't want to wait to see 'what happened next.'  <BR>This book would be a very good read for anyone looking for a good story that emphasizes family love and devotion in the face of life's hardships.	2002-12-30
US	51329799	RLRL396NL8HD7	0815605617	846090944	Dreaming of Columbus : A Boyhood in the Bronx	Books	2	1	3	N	Y	Rambling Reminisces about a Childhood in the Bronx	Michael Pearson has the right idea, but the ideas that are gathered into the book are a little disjointed and fractured.  If he could smooth out the stories so that blend one into the other, the entire book would read better.<br />On the positive note, Dreaming of Columbus would definitely stir memories of the neighborhood for those growing up in that part of New York.  He does have some descriptive stories of people, places and landmarks in the book that are entertainingly delightful.<br />If you are a Bronx native, I would recommend this book so you can remember things you may never see again.	2002-12-30
US	51329799	R37465NHAHHHA0	0312169868	901419615	The River Beyond the World: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The River alludes to more than water...	Janet Perry's book about two women from two different cultures on either side of the 'River' that divides them, culturally and physically until Lu accepts employment with Eddie is full of allusions and metaphors that are not in your face, but realized after you finish the read and sit back and think.<br />Lu, the protagonist wishes for a simple life where she is free from the 'want' she grew up with in her native village and for a good home for her two children.<br />Eddie, the secondary protagonist/antagonist, wishes for another life, but settles for what she has, and after the death of her husband lives her life pretending she lives in the life of her dreams.<br />Both women interact, both taking and giving in seemingly uneven lifestyles, but in the end, the proof is they both reap and receive their life's rewards.  Both realize, after major events in their lives have occurred, goals for which they were both conciously and perhaps subconciously wishing for themselves.<br />This book reads smoothly and the events segue beautifully.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone wishing to be transported to a place in another time to look over the shoulder of two women whose inner beauty glows through to the reader.	2002-12-30
US	51329799	RCWAD8X1LI9JM	0553260197	668598440	The Holcroft Covenant: A Novel	Books	3	17	19	N	Y	Robert Ludlum - Master Espionage Writer Strikes Again	I am hooked on Robert Ludlum's books.  I gave up romance after I turned 20, moved on to murder mysteries (Ellery Queen genre), but I never experienced an author that could keep me awake until 3:00 in the morning, not only with one of his books--but with all of them!<br />I have read The Chancellor Manuscripts, all three of the series of the Bourne books, and just finished the Holcroft Covenant, which teases and hints at a sequel in the last few pages, and I'm crossing my fingers there is one (have to still check out his list of books).<br />The Holcroft Covenant deals with Nazi sympathizers and a Covenant that is allegedly going to help all those victims of the Holocaust approximately 30 years after the conclusion of the war.  Mr. Holcraft, the son of one of Hitler's closest officers who supposedly committed suicide in the last days of the Reich, is given a letter, written by his father before his death, directing the son to find two other Nazi offspring, go to Geneva, and recover a multi-million dollar account that is dictated to be used to 'help' those victims of war crimes committed during the war.<br />The twist, as expected in any Ludlum novel, occurs about half-way through the book, from a direction the reader would never guess, and involves a woman (the hero always has to get his gal in Ludlum's novels--I love it!), and this right after he encounters an experience that forces him to run for his life, hide from those he loves, and cuts his communications off from any normal life that the hero would normally use if this was real life.<br />While Ludlum's books smack of a 'formula,' I absolutely love it--you know that something unusual is going to happen to the main character, he's going to be forced to give up his normal life to go out and 'save the world,' he'll use life-long aquaintances for help throughout the book (although about 85% end up in a morgue by the end of the story), there's lots of shooting of the bad guys, a damsel in distress who will initially hate the main character, then fall in love with him, and after everybody shoots at each other and more bad and good guys die, the hero either ends up being 'savior' of the world, or he ends up physically chopped to pieces, but survives to take on the bad guys again.<br />Don't try this plot at home--only Ludlum can add enough realistic and believable imagery to convince you of the reality of the story with his details of Europe, lovely descriptions of continental hotels, and travelogues throughout the storyline.<br />If you haven't tried a Ludlum novel, pick one up--any one, and enjoy an espionage thriller that only a master like Ludlum can write.itially hate the main character, then fall in love with him, and after everybody shoots at each other and more bad and good guys die, the hero either ends up being 'savior' of the world, or he ends up physically chopped to pieces, but survives to take on the bad guys again.  <br />Don't try this plot at home--only Ludlum can add enough realistic and believable imagery to convince you of the reality of the story with his details of Europe, lovely descriptions of continental hotels, and travelogues throughout the storyline. <br />If you haven't tried a Ludlum novel, pick one up--any one, and enjoy an espionage thriller that only a master like Ludlum can write.	2002-01-30
US	51329799	R1UCB9EHDKZOD6	0312859996	191893074	Journey of the Dead	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Journey of the Dead Given Life by Loren D. Estleman	I have never heard of this author before I picked up the book in a local thrift store.  What I can't believe is that I've never heard of this author after I finished reading the book.  I can't wait to go out and find more of his books!<br />This book is essentially a fictitional account of the real life of Sheriff Pat Garrett--infamous for killing Billy the Kid.  It has a secondary character who narrates and intersperses personal observations throughout the story, which adds an interesting dimension to the story.  I'm not totally sure why he's there at all, but it does add a little 'drive' throughout the book--I wanted to keep reading to see what this narrator character was going to divulge next.<br />Estleman is deliciously ingenious with mental images.  His passages read so brilliantly with his descriptions and metaphors that you can't help but instantly develop an image in your head as you watch your own internal moving picture.  Simple phrases such as &quot;...the clatter of a heavy wagon built of elm delivering a load of rocks smelling of moist earth...&quot; jolts your own memory to relive personal images that almost match this scene and let you fall into the arms of the storyteller.<br />Ths story itself takes place over several decades and highlights supposed 'facts' of the life of Pat Garrett, but seems to fill in details while skipping them alltogether.  You don't feel anything missing at the end of the story.<br />If you haven't read this book, or any book by Loren D. Estleman, I highly advice you to try him out -- even if it isn't this particular book.  While I haven't read his other books yet, if his methodology and story-telling skills are equal to this slim volume, I can't wait to read the rest!	2002-01-30
US	51329799	R1B7NZQEWXV2M7	0553260944	263261251	The Chancellor Manuscript: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Robert Ludlum -- Master of the Espionage Novel	I am hooked on Robert Ludlum's books. I gave up romance after I turned 20, moved on to murder mysteries (Ellery Queen genre), but I never experienced an author that could keep me awake until 3:00 in the morning, not only with this book--but with all of them!<br />I have read The Chancellor Manuscripts, all three of the series of the Bourne books, and just finished the Holcroft Covenant, which teases and hints at a sequel in the last few pages, and I'm crossing my fingers there is one (have to still check out his list of books).<br />The twist, as expected in any Ludlum novel, occurs about half-way through the book, from a direction the reader would never guess, and involves a woman (the hero always has to get his gal in Ludlum's novels!), and this right after he experiences something that forces him to run for his life, hide from those he loves, and/or forces him to cut his communications from any normal life that the hero would normally use if this was real life.<br />While Ludlum's books smack of a 'formula,' I'm hooked--you know that something unusual is going to happen to the main character, he's going to be forced to give up his normal life to go out and 'save the world,' he'll use life-long aquaintances for help throughout the book (although about 85% end up in a morgue by the end of the story), there's lots of shooting of the bad guys, a damsel in distress who will initially hate or distrust the main character, then fall in love with him, and after which everybody shoots at each other and more bad and good guys die, then the hero either ends up being 'savior' of the world, or he ends up chopped to pieces (ouch), but survives to take on the bad guys again.<br />Don't try this plot at home--only Ludlum can add enough realistic and believable imagery to convince you of the reality of the story with his details.  I was surprised that this is the only book of Ludlum's so far to have the scenery completely fall within the continental USA versus his European settings for all his other books.  While the details are pretty amibiguous in this book, they are realistic enough to give you a feel for the location (versus his precise details and descriptions of European sites in his other novels).<br />If you haven't tried a Ludlum novel, pick one up--any one, and enjoy an espionage thriller that only a master like Ludlum can write.ings for all his other books.   While the details are pretty amibiguous in this book, they are realistic enough to give you a feel for the location (versus his precise details and descriptions of European sites in his other novels).<br />If you haven't tried a Ludlum novel, pick one up--any one, and enjoy an espionage thriller that only a master like Ludlum can write.	2002-01-30
US	51329799	RWN13VO9Q2Q18	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Isle of Dogs not for Dog Lovers	I just paged through dozens of those folks writing reviews that hated the book.  Boy, did they misunderstand what this book is about!<br />Anyone who is a fan of Saturday Night Live can see the biting sarcasm, the intrinisic irony, and the 'bite your tongue, and don't laugh out loud because someone might hear you giggling at something politically incorrect' humor of this story.  Those hoping to read more darkly gothic storytelling with their favorite character, Kay Scarpetta, are sure to be disapointed--...  Those who read this book to be entertained by a parody of Southern politics, hilarious distortions of basic human emotions, and who can recognize real-life folks just just trying to 'get along' are in for a delightful ride.<br />The story is essentially about a crime-fighting team of a female Va State Police Commissioner (?) and her trusty side-kick, a 'good 'ol white boy' State Police helicopter pilot whose main mission in life is to do their jobs as well as possible despite all the stupid people getting in their way.<br />If anyone remembers The Dukes of Hazard television show, the little fat town mayor will quickly come to mind when Cornwell describes the Governor of Virginia--blind, deaf, and dumber than a hunk of fat-back hanging in the smokehouse.  His wife, equally stupid, vapid, and a TV shop-a-holic will bring to mind many close relatives many of us are forced to accknowledge in our own families.  The daughters--equally dumb, fat, and obnoxious to boot, make up the discontent family of political squatters in the Richmond Capital Mansion.<br />Enter a protagonist who stirs the Govenor's pot (figuratively and literally) to realize a lifelong burning ambition based on revenge for family honor for many generations.  His methods of getting what he wants (OK, Patricia, this method of poison makes even my mouth water!) by manipulating the Governor's 'submarine' make for a cute plot amongst the several subplots with all the characters just trying to make an honest living and keeping all the vultures away.<br />Tangier Island was appealing to me before, and I haven't visited it yet, but I want to drop by even more now after reading about all the unique characters that Cornwell 'slightly' exaggerated in the book to increase it's humor factor.<br />OK, it's not a realistic, criminally dark and gothic book with sexy scenes of interacial coupling that Cornwell is known for with her Kay Scarpetta character, but she does right a compelling plot that wants you to read on to see what stupid event falls in to place next and how the characters react in a chain reaction of overdone proportions.<br />Anonymous Internet Hero, a missing dog, good 'ol white boys, a dishonest dentist, race car drivers, and unpolitic behavior in this book promises a giggle throughout as you read and wonder what Cornwell has thought up next.  If you are laughing within the first two chapters, then this book will entertain you to the end.  But, if you expect and demand the same style of writing as Cornwell's Scarpetta novels, don't bother.an honest living and keeping all the vultures away.  <br />Tangier Island was appealing to me before, and I haven't visited it yet, but I want to drop by even more now after reading about all the unique characters that Cornwell 'slightly' exaggerated in the book to increase it's humor factor.  <br />OK, it's not a realistic, criminally dark and gothic book with sexy scenes of interacial coupling that Cornwell is known for with her Kay Scarpetta character, but she does right a compelling plot that wants you to read on to see what stupid event falls in to place next and how the characters react in a chain reaction of overdone proportions.  <br />Anonymous Internet Hero, a missing dog, good 'ol white boys, a dishonest dentist, race car drivers, and unpolitic behavior in this book promises a giggle throughout as you read and wonder what Cornwell has thought up next.  If you are laughing within the first two chapters, then this book will entertain you to the end.  But, if you expect and demand the same style of writing as Cornwell's Scarpetta novels, don't bother.	2002-01-30
US	51329799	R3L0T2INKBJY3G	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Ludlum Never Loses It	I read Robert Ludlum's book, The Bourne Identity, and lost a lot of sleep over late night read-a-thon's.  I can't believe how RL grabs the reader from the first page and has the reader hanging on by their fingernails at the end of every chapter.  I was so impressed by this book, when I discovered there were two sequels to the Bourne Identity, I immediately purchased them.  They were not dissapointing either--two more weeks of sleepless nights trying to reach the thrilling climax at the end of each book!  If you love high speed espionage with chases, the beautiful female love interest, and the antagonist disquised as an evil devil that 'good' has to overcome, then I highly encourage you to run to the closest bookstore or library and get your own copy!	2001-12-29
US	51329799	R3T7UY0C6FLWDJ	0553278002	11068773	The Icarus Agenda	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Ludlum -- Wow's 'em again...	I have read about three of Robert Ludlum's books as of last night.  Every one of them keeps me up far past my required midnight bedtime.<br />Robert Ludlum has this habit of writing a novel that moves, moves, surprises you, then moves again, and you almost feel breathless waiting for the next crisis to happen to the protagonist and what on earth will the protaganist do to get out of this mess!<br />I sure do wish that Robert Ludlum would write a story about a female heroine that is just as wonderful a protagonist as his male characters, though.	2001-10-17
US	51329799	R3LQEA70H1HLVA	0879350776	916238634	Williamsburg Before and After: The Rebirth of Virginia's Colonial Capital	Books	5	46	47	N	Y	Breathtaking, crystal clear documentation	I have checked this book out at the library looking for 'GOOD' photos of some of the older homes and the resconstructed homes from the 1700's.  The photos are absolutely breathtakingly crystal, clear, show wonderful  asthetic views, and give a simple and linear time frame of ownership and  construction/demolition, reconstruction of many of the homes in the  Williamsburg area.  This book is worth every penny if you buy it for  research and historical purposes.  Of all the books on Williamsburg that I  have ever read (dozens and dozens), this one is the most excellent!	2000-06-11
US	51329799	R2C1SW7PKD7N9	0440221781	742177027	Operation Iceberg: The Invasion and Conquest of Okinawa in World War II	Books	2	5	43	N	Y	Cost of information per the book and it's offering.	I was reading this book primarily for details to add to a genealogy project.  This book supplied me with an amazing amount of the basic information about the invasion.  Price is OK for a paperback.	1999-06-08
US	51329799	R1SGO2H01JXPWH	0140173897	855700792	Okinawa: The Last Battle of World War II	Books	5	6	12	N	Y	Information for history buffs and genealogy info-seekers	This thin book is amazing for the amount of basic detail and information.  It was great for getting a simple start on my genealogy project for a general understanding of what the invasion was about and for a non-military  reader.  It's easy to read and highly recommend to WWII history buffs.  Only complaint I had was the high price for the size of the paperback book.	1999-06-08
