US	51320210	R37GHJZ6J8JMC0	0684834529	519246630	The Next World War: Computers Are the Weapons & the Front Line Is Everywhere	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Outdated and unfocused look at information warfare	James Adams' The Next World War was a disappointing read from an author who usually produces solid national security writing.   <br /> <br />The book is an effort (originally written in 1998) to provide a survey of how future wars might be waged.  Divided into three parts, the book begins by providing an overview of the state of \\"information warfare,\\" then discusses relevant applications of information warfare, and concludes by discussing how information warfare may impact US and global security.   <br /> <br />While the book is a decent attempt to sum up innovative thinking in the world of security studies during the mid- to late-1990s, it suffers from a critical lack of focus.  The author introduces the concept of \\"information warfare\\" but discusses several topics (most notably non-lethal weapons) that appear only tangentially related to even the most generous definitions of information warfare.  In addition, like many books written during this time period, The Next World War argues that cyberwarfare, viruses, and hacking present the gravest threats to US security interests. This argument almost completely overlooks the importance of information warfare outside the cybersphere.  Terrorists, insurgents, and other non-state actors practice their own form of information warfare that falls largely outside of Adams' discussion.  In addition, while Adams' research was undoubtedly cutting edge in 1998, the rapid changes in information technology and military technology make some of his discussions seem antiquated. <br /> <br />While an interesting and relatively easy read, this book is too outdated and too broadly conceived to much use for today's readers.  Specialists in military technology and information warfare may find this a valuable addition to their libraries.  General readers and those interested in more up-to-date information on \\"information warfare\\" should opt for more recent studies.   <br />	2004-09-19
US	51320210	R1FYBFN5LJM27P	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Clever storyline, spotty writing	Brown's Digital Fortress is an entertaining but predictable piece of fiction that overcomes Brown's often-over-the-top writing style. <br /> <br />The novel follows NSA head cryptographer Susan Fletcher and her fianc, linguist David Becker, as they attempt to unravel the mystery of an unbreakable code that threatens the very existence of the NSA.  When the NSA's code-breaking supercomputer fails to decrypt a mysterious code, Fletcher is called in to oversee the crisis.  Becker is tasked with traveling to Spain to recover the key needed to unlock the code.  Held hostage by the unbreakable code, Fletcher finds herself immersed in a web of lies within NSA while Becker is stalked by an unknown assassin determined to recover the key code himself.  Slowly but surely, Fletcher and Becker find themselves involved in a much larger crisis that threatens the highest levels of US national security. <br /> <br />Digital Fortress' clever, though somewhat predictable plot is its greatest asset.  The author is clearly skilled at crafting interesting plotlines that weave multiple stories together.   However, Brown's writing style is often melodramatic and unnatural, detracting from the overall strength of the story.  In some cases, supposedly brilliant characters make colossally (and conveniently) stupid decisions that help drive the plot.  In addition to Brown's spotty writing, the book contains several factual inaccuracies that detract from the book.  While the author can certainly be forgiven for not being an expert in cryptography, his lack of knowledge in this area becomes a serious liability in a book that revolves almost solely around codebreaking.   <br /> <br />Digital Fortress is therefore a strange combination: a book with serious flaws that remains enjoyable and easy to read.  Readers with a knowledge of cryptography and codebreaking will find some parts of this book annoyingly inaccurate.  General readers will be able to overlook Brown's lack of cryptographic knowledgeand enjoy the book for what it is.  <br />	2004-09-19
US	51320210	R3454IK0MP48A1	0679756973	941603910	An Anthropologist On Mars: Seven Paradoxical Tales	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Underscores the complexity of the human mind	Oliver Sacks' An Anthropologist on Mars is a delightful and enlightening book that reveals the unparalleled complexity of the human brain.<br /><br />Sacks, an accomplished neurologist and author, presents seven case studies that highlight different neurological phenomena.  In his case studies, Sacks follows a newly colorblind painter, a man who can create no new memories, a surgeon with Tourette's syndrome, a blind man who regains his sight, a painter obsessed with images from his childhood, an autistic boy artist, and a high-functioning autistic professor.  Sacks does not treat his case studies as dry medical oddities but rather discusses their neurological experiences within their broader human existence.  Unlike other authors who know their patients only distantly, Sacks works intimately with his case studies and develops meaningful relationships that translate into a deeper, more insightful understanding of his patients and their experiences.<br /><br />While Sacks is clearly a brilliant neurologist, what makes this book so powerful is his ability to weave in medicine, science, history, and philosophy into a coherent narrative.  Every case study illuminates a series of important and thought-provoking questions that challenge the everyday assumptions of perception, reality, intelligence, and what it means to be human.  In the end, the reader emerges with a better appreciation of the complexity of the human mind.<br /><br />The book is very well documented with copious footnotes provided throughout the book.  Occasionally, Sacks neglects to define some arcane medical terms, so readers would do well to keep a dictionary close at hand.  Overall, the book is highly accessible to the general reader who will find it intriguing and intellectually rewarding.	2004-09-19
US	51320210	R2YN4VS2GY8LB0	0393326713	424289102	The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Authorized Edition)	Books	5	5	21	N	N	An important read for all Americans	The Final Report of the 9/11 Commission is a riveting read for anyone interested in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks against the United States.  The report is a well-written, well-researched, bi-partisan effort to highlight the institutional failures within the US government that led to the failure to predict, prepare for, and prevent the deadliest attacks ever to occur on US soil.   <br /> <br />The report begins with an absolutely riveting minute-by-minute account of the morning of September 11, piecing together multiple sources to provide the most in-depth analysis of how the terrorists conducted their attack.  The report then discusses the rise of bin Laden and al-Qaeda and tracks US efforts to combat this terrorist threat from the mid-1990s into 2001.  After providing an equally riveting account of the response efforts at the World Trade Center and Pentagon, the report presents a series of recommendations--some strategic and general and others more tactical and specific--to prevent and prepare for future attacks.   <br /> <br />The report is extremely well-researched and documented with over 100 pages dedicated to endnotes (this does have the unfortunate side-effect of burying some very interesting facts and sources in the back of the report).  The Commission's staff interviewed hundreds of people and reviewed countless reports, creating a truly authoritative history and analysis of the attacks that is written in easy-to-follow, concise language.  While much was written of the partisan nature of the Commission, the report rises above partisanship, presenting facts and highlighting shortcomings from both the Clinton and Bush administrations. Readers looking for partisan indictments of either Bill Clinton or George W. Bush will be sorely disappointed.  When appropriate, the report does not shy away from debunking partisan (and otherwise bizarre) conspiracy theories about the attacks.   Ultimately, the report does not lay blame on a single individual, agency, or administration, but rather cites an institutional, government-wide \\"failure of imagination\\" as the attack's major enabler.   <br /> <br />The only weakness of the report lies in some of its recommendations.  While some recommendations (e.g. a national intelligence director) have gained political traction (a rarity for commission recommendations), a few seems overly broad, generic, and not easily implemented (e.g. \\"strengthening congressional oversight\\").   <br /> <br />The report is a lengthy read at over 300 pages but is well worth the effort.  The report is accessible to the general reader and its style reads closer to a novel than to a bureaucratic report.  If nothing else, I recommend that everyone read the first chapter (overview of terrorist actions on 9/11) and ninth chapter (response efforts on 9/11) to understand the sophistication and scale of the attacks.  This report ought to be required reading for all Americans--its findings and recommendations have made an important contribution to better preparing the nation.	2004-09-19
US	51320210	R2H2W0VLGXXGXB	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Controversial, well-argued book for political theorists	The End of History and the Last Man is one of the most controversial and perhaps most misunderstood works of modern political theory.<br /><br />Fukuyama's argument, originally developed in a shorter 1989 National Interest article, contends that the ideals of liberal democracy and free-market capitalism may \\"constitute the 'end point of mankind's ideological evolution' and the 'final form of human government.'\\"  By conquering fascism and communism (and theocracy and monarchy before that), liberal democracy has emerged as the unchallenged political philosophy of choice, apparently free from \\"fundamental internal contradictions.\\"<br /><br />The first part of Fukuyama's book relies heavily on Hegelian philosophy and introduces the concept of History--a directional, evolutionary process resulting in some final ideological state.  Synthesizing a combination of history, science, political theory, and philosophy, Fukuyama argues that liberal democracy may represent Hegel's End of History.<br /><br />In the second part of the book, Fukuyama transitions to discussing the Nietzschean idea of the Last Man who would emerge at the End of History. While the End of History appears on the surface to be a source of human fulfillment, Fukuyama uses Nietzsche to question whether the Last Man would indeed be fully fulfilled or would rather live a purposeless existence.<br /><br />While Fukuyama's thesis is extremely controversial, his argument is highly philosophical and well-argued.  Throughout the book, he presents evidence from a wide range of fields to support his claims and anticipates and pre-empts several important counter-arguments.<br /><br />Following September 11, 2001, many people simply scoffed at Fukuyama's audacious title.  The Global War on Terror and the ideological battle between Western liberalism and Islamic fundamentalism seemed to undermine any notion that history was over.  Much of this criticism originates from a misunderstanding of Fukuyama's original thesis.His End of History does not predict the end of struggle or major historical events.  On the contrary, he predicts that their may indeed be great struggles between Western liberal democratic ideals, and competing Islamic fundamentalist or Asian ideals.<br /><br />Because this book relies heavily on Hegelian and Nietzschean philosophy and makes subtle political, sociological, and psychological arguments, it is not an easy book for the general reader--it is clearly authored for political theorists.  The book is very densely written and is occasionally overly repetitive in places.  While the book is an important contribution to modern political theory, I believe that general readers will find Fukuyama's original National Interest article a more digestible and concise version of his argument.	2004-08-26
US	51320210	R2CR1GUNUNQ06B	0785261036	5934911	The Third Terrorist: The Middle East Connection to the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	3	33	44	N	N	Intriguing evidence about the &quot;others unknown&quot;	The Third Terrorist is an interesting work of investigative journalism.  The book is the end result of several years of relentless investigation into the Oklahoma City bombing by Jayna Davis, a former Oklahoma City reporter.  <br />While most Americans identify Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols with the Oklahoma City bombing, few realize that the original indictment implicates &quot;others unknown&quot; who conspired with McVeigh and Nichols to blow up the Murrah Federal Building.  Davis's book theorizes that the &quot;others unknown&quot; were in fact Middle Eastern terrorists.  This theory may seem bizarre to many, but Davis has a wealth of intriguing and compelling evidence that indicates a potential Middle Eastern role in the bombing.  Indeed, Davis has painstakingly collected sworn affidavits from witnesses who consistently identify a third Middle Eastern accomplice to the bombing.  Davis has also tracked down several interesting leads that the FBI either dropped or ignored that further implicate Middle Eastern terrorists.  <br />While the book is intriguing, there are several serious problems with it.  First, and most importantly, Davis is never able to coherently and definitively tie Middle Eastern terror networks to the bombing.  At times, her evidence seems almost contradictory, indicating Iraqi involvement (her primary theory), Iranian involvement, and Palestinian involvement all at the same time.  There is a lot of evidence presented but no grand theory that connects it all.  <br />Second, the book is not very well written.  Her writing style is often overly dramatic and wordy.  Moreover, the book is poorly organized and often repetitive.  This undermines the persuasiveness of her writing.  <br />Third, some of her arguments seem somewhat sloppy and misguided.  She consistently conflates the terms &quot;Middle Eastern&quot; and &quot;Islamic,&quot; allowing her to make convenient connections between Middle Eastern secular motives and extremist Islamic motives. <br />Overall, I found the book to be intriguing.  While it did not convince me that Iraqi intelligence agents were the primary agents behind the bombing, it did convince me that certain aspects of the bombing need to be re-examined in light of her evidence.  Despite its shortcomings, the book reads relatively quickly and is accessible to general readers with only a passing knowledge about the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.	2004-07-02
US	51320210	R2RC2QZ9SI1MPH	0465004989	648256766	The Assassins	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Scholarly treatise on the Assassins	Bernard Lewis's The Assassins is a supremely academic introduction to one of the most well-known and most feared sects within historical Islam.  <br />The work, originally written in 1967, begins with a detailed explanation of the historical roots of the Assassins, a Nizari Ismaili sect within Shi'a Islam that used targeted killings in the Middle Ages to achieve political, military, and religious goals.  Lewis uses a wealth of historical sources to untangle the myths of the Assassins and trace the group's history throughout Medieval Islam.  While many people have a general knowledge of or interest in the Assassins, Lewis's book provides in-depth information about the inner workings of this secretive sect. <br />While the title and subject of this book may appeal to the general reader, the book is extremely scholarly.  This is both its greatest strength and greatest weakness.  Lewis's use of primary source material, much of it previously undiscovered or unused, lends an extraordinary authoritativeness to the book.  Lewis is able to fluidly weave this historical source material throughout the book, making it invaluable for historians and regional specialists.  However, the book's extensive use of historical sources and quotes limits its accessibility to the general reader.  As someone with an academic background in the Middle East and Islam, I still occasionally found myself overwhelmed by the density and scholarliness of Lewis's writing.  <br />The book is a must-read for Middle East/Islamic specialists and historians.  It is a superb example of succinct, historical, scholarly writing.  However, general readers looking for insights into modern day Islamic terrorism and fanaticism will likely find themselves disappointed and overwhelmed by The Assassins.	2004-07-02
US	51320210	R3MGYINH1UQOWG	0394404289	377400426	The Prophet (A Borzoi Book)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Spiritual masterpiece	Khalil Gibran's The Prophet is a truly awe inspiring work of prosaic poetry.  Despite being a native-born Arabic speaker, Gibran wrote The Prophet in English, ensuring that his powerful words lost nothing in translation.  <br />The work's 28 short chapters recount the words of a prophet as he leaves his home to depart on a new journey.  The words that flow from the prophet's mouth and onto the pages are philosophical and spiritual treatises on all aspects of life.  Chapters discuss the range of human experiences and include discussions such as \\"On Friendship\\", \\"On Pain\\" and \\"On Death.\\"  What unites the 28 chapters is Gibran's thought provoking and probing literary style as Gibran's prophet invokes his listeners to live life to the fullest.  The book is not overtly religious but every word and sentence is filled with a spiritual clarity.  <br />The book is eminently quotable with every chapter providing a nugget of truth worthy of repeating.  Amazingly, Gibran packs his masterpiece into less than 100 pages, making it a very quick and easy read.  Readers will find themselves returning to The Prophet again and again to recapture the beauty of Gibran's words.<br />The Prophet, which Gibran himself recognized as his greatest masterpiece, is a timeless literary classic.  Its truth has touched generations of readers and will undoubtedly continue to do so.	2003-06-05
US	51320210	R9BW8ZFQJSK7F	096139210X	707128479	The Visual Display of Quantitative Information	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Never look at a graphic the same way	The Visual Display of Quantitative Information is a rather dry title for what turns out to be a supremely interesting and innovative study of how graphics can explain quantitative information.  <br />Tufte is the pre-eminent scholar of graphical representation and this book is a clear example of why.  The book outlines Tufte's theories for better displaying data in graphical forms.  According to Tufte's well-argued point of view, simpler is often better--good graphics are able to convey multiple levels of information with minimal ink.  He rails against unnecessary &quot;chartjunk&quot; which merely takes up space without conveying any information and he is quick to note that &quot;pretty&quot; graphics are often the least informative.  Tufte's theories for achieving graphical success are presented in a straightforward manner and are always highlighted by examples.  Some of the most interesting sections of the book show how Tufte would transform an otherwise ordinary graphic into a more powerful one--these sections clearly illustrate Tufte's theories and enable the reader to learn from the mistakes of other designers. <br />Tufte's book is extremely well researched and he consistently uses graphics from various time periods to highlight the points of his argument and to illustrate the good and bad of graphic design.  He writes quite passionately about his &quot;favorite&quot; graphic (Charles Minard's time series map of Napoleon's march into Russia) and is equally passionate about exposing the lack of data within bad graphics (he calls one &quot;the worst graphic ever to find its way into print&quot;).  <br />Tufte is a clear and compact writer and is very good at explaining complex ideas both in words and in graphical form.  While the book sounds very academic, it is certainly accessible to the general reader.  This is a must read for graphic designers and those who seek to present quantitative information successfully (e.g. scientists, statisticians, students, businesspeople, etc.).  Tufte's ideas are simple and broad enough to translate into a wide range of graphical areas--readers will be able to conceptualize and present data much more effectively after reading this book.  Readers will also have a much sharper eye when viewing other's graphics.  In a time when computer programs have largely automated graph-making (usually with bad results), Tufte's book is a helpful guide to making graphs and charts as effective and informative as they can be.	2003-06-04
US	51320210	R2TSFFQXSYRTVM	0816704635	551860371	Moby Dick	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A classic to be read at least once	Moby Dick rightfully can lay claim to being one of the greatest American novels ever written. I think people should sit down and read this novel at least once in their life.<br />The novel, told through the eyes of the observant yet enigmatic Ishmael, follows the whaling adventures of the Pequod, a whaling ship captained by the strange and obsessive Captain Ahab. Ishmael and his harpooner friend, Queequeg, embark on the Pequod expecting the normal whaling adventures--but they get much more than they bargained for from Captain Ahab who is singularly obsessed with killing the mighty sperm whale, Moby Dick. What follows is a superbly crafted novel that deftly mixes high seas adventure with symbolism and philosophy.<br />Melville is a master at telling this story and his three main characters (Ishmael, Ahab and Queequeg) are finely developed and intriguing throughout. His particularly stunning portrayal of Ahab remains one of the great literary accomplishments. On the surface, this book is a fantastic adventure story with twists and turns that will leave first-time readers on the edge of their seats. Further readings will reveal the extensive symbolism and philosophical meanings hidden throughout the storyline.<br />The main distraction throughout the novel is the painstaking detail Melville pays to the whaling industry. He meticulously describes the last minute details of every single task on the ship. This can be quite annoying and tedious in places, though these parts are easily glossed over by those who are uninterested.<br />I think most people ought to read this book at least once. The surface level story is more than worthwhile the first time around. More serious readers will find further readings more fruitful as the deeper layers of Moby Dick are peeled away reading after reading.	2002-11-25
US	51320210	R1AJTAAET88KHE	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Great book from the master	2001: A Space Odyssey is the quintessential science fiction book, filled with both inspired visions of the future and startling philosophical questions about humanity's place in the cosmos.  <br />At the core of the novel is humanity's connection with an alien intelligence.  The novel begins with primordial man encountering an alien intelligence--an encounter that would forever change human history.  Several thousand years later, evidence of this alien intelligence (a black monolith) is discovered on the moon.  The monolith, and its mysterious radio signal directed towards Saturn, compels mankind to initiate an interplanetary journey to the distant planet to uncover the monolith's origins and meanings.  Unbeknownst to the human crew, only the ship's onboard computer (the HAL 9000) has full knowledge of the journey's actual mission.  The final parts of the novel pit the human crew against the &quot;self-aware&quot; HAL 9000 computer.  In a stunning conclusion, the true meaning of the monolith and man's connection to it are both exposed.<br />This is a fascinating book that reads surprisingly quickly.  Clarke is masterful in his details and paints vivid pictures for the reader throughout the novel.  Beyond the interesting and provocative story-line, 2001 constantly asks the reader to think deeply and philosophically about humanity's place in the universe.  Clarke beautifully captures the scientific and intellectual spirit that has driven humanity throughout the ages (from primordial man to intergalactic man).  <br />Most people are more familiar with the Stanley Kubrick movie &quot;2001&quot; than with this novel (the novel and screenplay were written at the same time).  A careful reading of this book (preferably before seeing the movie) provides invaluable insight into what many perceive as a perplexing and convoluted movie.  The novel more clearly explains and connects the plotlines and allows you to more fully appreciate the cinematic masterpiece that 2001 is.<br />This is a great book for anyone interested in science, science fiction, futurism or related subjects.  I do believe that the book does hold valuable meaning for general readers as well because of its philosophical roots and because of its place in the annals of science fiction greatness.  And for all those people who are confused by the movie, pick this up and read it--it will be sure to shed some light on the subject.	2002-11-24
US	51320210	R11VLZEQSGBBXN	0395329205	618928945	Castle	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Great book for all ages	This is a simple yet fascinating book that explores in words and in drawings the construction of an English castle.  The book follows a castle's construction from the initial ground work to the finishing touches and includes fascinating details about the inner workings of castle-building and the life in and around a castle.<br />MacAuley is a gifted author, capable of explaining basic engineering and building techniques in language accessible to young readers.  Even adults will learn something new about how castles were built and the day-to-day living experiences within the environs of a castle.  What makes this book so special are, of course, MacAuley's superb drawings.  Every page is richly decorated with MacAuley's detailed, hand-drawn, black-and-white sketches.  Even as an adult, I find it amazing to look at these drawings and it is no surprise that children find these drawings simply riveting.	2002-09-09
US	51320210	R25ATIETEUQ7Z2	0764101862	781770621	Barron's Ap Calculus Advanced Placement Examination: Review of Calculus Ab and Calculus Bc (Barron's How to Prepare for Ap Calculus Advanced Placement Examination)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Thorough and helpful to the diligent student	This can be a very helpful book for those studying for the AP Calculus AB exam.  I used this book as part of a high school AP Calculus AB class (in conjunction with a standard high school calc textbook). I can therefore only speak to the book's quality regarding the Calculus AB sections (the first half of the book).  I can't really speak to the BC sections (second half of the book), though I suspect that the quality does not change dramatically between the two sections. <br />The strength of the book is its thoroughness.  Every chapter provides text explanations and examples that cover the key concepts of the AP Calculus AB program.  These explanations and examples allow students to get comfortable with the important concepts and see how potential AP exam questions might be phrased.  Each chapter also includes many practice problems that are all fully explained and worked out.  The book also includes 4 practice AB exams which again include answers and explanations.  These practice tests give students the invaluable opportunity to get a feel for taking a real AP Calculus AB exam.  The problems presented in the book are definitely reflective of those found in the real AP exam.  The book does err a little on the side of difficulty in the practice problems and practice tests but I think this is a good strategy because it gives students the ability to take the real AP test with more confidence.  <br />The explanations, examples and practice problem/test answers were all very thorough and (most importantly) error free.  The book's thoroughness eliminates what is probably the most frustrating part of most study guides--concepts or answers that you don't understand or answers that are just plain wrong.  <br />As with most study guides, this book will be most useful to students who work diligently through the relevant chapters.  This is not a book that you can pick up a week or two before the exam and expect it to magically improve your calculus abilities.  Diligently and patiently working your way through this study guide is an excellent way to prepare yourself for the actual AP Calculus AB exam.	2002-09-09
US	51320210	R1DBGFJ356P2H8	0894803204	144957138	The Book of Questions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun book of interesting questions	The title of this book is pretty explanatory.  It is simply a book of questions (417 of them to be exact).  There are no answers, no clues and no hints as the questions are merely designed to get people to think hypothetically about themselves, about others and about the world around them.  Some of the questions are simple and fun to think about, others are intellectually and philosophically challenging.  <br />In general, most of these questions should be shared with friends/family/loved ones--that is to say that most people will probably not feel comfortable answering these questions in the presence of mere strangers.  The book is a good way to learn more about other people you know and love or can be used alone to learn more about yourself and your own values.<br />This is a valuable and simple book that is useful to have around the house and to glance at every once in a while by yourself or to pull out when engaged in thought-provoking conversation with people you know and trust.	2002-09-03
US	51320210	RI1TA6JDRJLAE	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fascinating and quick read (even for the scientific novice)	This is a neat little book written by Alan Lightman, an accomplished physicist in his own right.  But this book is not a physics book--rather it is a series of short chapters (dreams) that describe in fascinating detail alternate realities where our normal sense of time and physical realities are warped.  Lightman posits that these sort of dreams and thoughts undoubtedly went through Einstein's mind as he completed his work in special relativity and forever changed how the world views space and time.  <br />The dreams are simply fascinating to read as Lightman describes worlds where time runs backwards, or in circles or without any measure.   The physics of these universes are moot points and Lightman uses no scientific or relativistic explanations, making the book readable and accessible to the common reader.  What Lightman does examine closely is the psychological/societal impact of these hypothetical realities on the human experience. <br />Lightman is a talented writer and his work is readable by everyone.  The chapters are short, making this an ideal book to read in bits and pieces as time permits.  Regardless of their knowledge about physics and the such, most readers will be fascinated by Lightman's descriptions of alternate time experiences.	2002-09-03
US	51320210	R1VFLMMK119INE	1562450794	59471023	The 201 Best Things Ever Said!	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Why do people buy these type of books	It's always been a bit of a mystery as to why people buy this type of book (I received mine as a gift).  The 201 Best Things Ever Said purports to be just that, a compendium of clever, witty and useful quotes.  It takes about 5 minutes to &quot;read&quot; this book, and I found that once I glanced through it once or twice, I never looked at it again.  <br />The quotes aren't organized in any particular way and there's no index, so if you're looking for a quote on a particular subject, good luck finding it.  Furthermore, many of the quotes really aren't that interesting (and certainly aren't the best things ever said) and many were said by people I have never heard of.  I also find it hard to believe that Lily Tomlin has 3 or 4 of the greatest quotes in the history of mankind.  <br />I think you have to be a real quote lover to buy this book.  People looking for a useful book of quotes should try and find a book with an index and quotes organized by subject/theme.	2002-09-03
US	51320210	R55O6QVYWIUC4	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	4	6	7	N	N	More in depth look at objectivism	Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged is a more complete literary description of her objectivist philosophy.  As with The Fountainhead, the book is a good read and philosophically challenging, though occasionally overly repetitive. <br />The novel follows several characters as they seek to survive in a world that is slowly self-destructing under the weight and incompetence of the \\"parasites\\" of the world.  Dagny Taggart, Francisco D'Anconia and Hank Rearden represent Rand's heroes--egotistical, brilliant, creative, hard-working geniuses who struggle to keep their industrial empires alive as the rest of the world collapses around them.  Rand follows these characters as they seek to discover how and why their world is being destroyed.  To their surprise and to the surprise of the reader, there is a grand purpose behind this destruction--a grand purpose that ultimately seeks to destroy the world and rid it of the \\"parasites\\" so it can be rebuilt anew by people such as Taggart, D'Anconia and Rearden (saying any more risks ruining the surprise).<br />On the literary level, this book is a pretty enjoyable read and Rand does a good job holding the reader's interest.  Her characters are well developed and the plot is intriguing and surprising.  The length is daunting and probably could have been shorter in places--there is an infamous 56 page rant that takes the cake as the longest soliloquy in literary history.  <br />At the deeper level, Atlas Shrugged is a more complete description of Rand's objectivist philosophy--a philosophy first spelled out in The Fountainhead.  Objectivism exalts the supremacy of man and holds egoism, capitalism and objective reality as its virtues.  Unfortunately, in places, the novel beats the reader over the head with the philosophy (e.g. in the aforementioned 56 page soliloquy).  The philosophical presentation is more complete than in The Fountainhead but occasionally at the expense of the book's literary presentation.<br />Opinions on Rand's works are clouded by vehement philosophical and political beliefs.  Ultimately, Atlas Shrugged is a good book regardless of whether you abhor or adore the objectivist philosophy.  I highly recommend reading the shorter and subtler The Fountainhead first--readers that enjoy The Fountainhead will enjoy Atlas Shrugged while those who have had their fill with The Fountainhead will probably find Atlas Shrugged repetitive and unpleasant.  In the end, reading Rand's work is always engaging and intellectually challenging.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	R2AHXT9ZU7I6CP	0385334303	900904156	The Naked Ape: A Zoologist's Study of the Human Animal	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Classic that changed how we think about man	The Naked Ape is Desmond Morris' controversial best-selling book that studies human beings not as exalted creationary exceptions, but rather as creatures very much beholden to our evolutionary primate origins. <br />Morris, a brilliant zoologist with expertise in the field of primates (amongst other things), uses his profound academic and professional knowledge about primates to shed light on the human experience.  Backed with an enormous quantity of scientific evidence, Morris explains the what, why and how of human behavior by stripping away man's \\"civilized veneer\\" and examining the animalistic and evolutionary origins of our behavior.  <br />Morris walks us through the evidence in a logical and interconnected fashion. His chapters are organized thematically and begin with the \\"basics\\" of human behavior (sex, child rearing) and then move through the more complex and higher order behaviors (fighting, communication).  Throughout these chapters, Morris uses a wide breadth of biological, psychological, sociological and zoological evidence to demonstrate the connection between man and our animal cousins.  <br />Though an academic, Morris writes in a simple and direct manner that is accessible to all.  The book is jargon-free and has no footnotes, though Morris does provide helpful lists of related readings at the end the book.  <br />This book was first published in 1967 and its no-nonsense view of humanity's animalistic origins caused quite a stir. Even though more than 30 years have passed since its publication, this book remains thought-provoking and enlightening throughout. Due to the book's age, several of Morris' theories have been updated and refined over the years.  Therefore, this book should not be read as an infallible account of our current understanding of man.  Rather, this is an invaluable introductory work on evolutionary sociology/anthropology.  More recent works are likely to provide more accurate and up-to-date perspectives. <br />People who are uncomfortable with the idea of evolution or with humanity's connection to other animals should probably not read this book (they probably don't want to anyway). Most will find this a worthwhile read that challenges conventional thought about the human species and provides important insights into our origins.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	R8CLQKHLO7IF1	0345376714	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X (As Told to Alex Haley)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An autobiography that will surprise many	The Autobiography of Malcolm X is one of the most stunning, thought-provoking and enlightening autobiographies/biographies I have ever read.  Malcom X's direct narrative style combines wonderfully with Alex Haley's literary acumen to create a book that will keep readers eagerly turning the pages.<br />Through Malcolm X's own eyes, the reader begins by following Malcolm through his childhood in segregated Nebraska and into his delinquent adolescence in New York City.  While serving prison time for one of his many indiscretions, Malcolm joins the ranks of the Nation of Islam, a social and quasi-religious organization (founded by Elijah Muhammed) designed to empower African Americans.  The reader follows Malcolm's meteoric rise within the Nation of Islam as he becomes one of the preeminent spokesmen for the African American experience.  The remainder of the book follows Malcolm's remarkable transformation, as he becomes disillusioned with the Nation of Islam, converts to orthodox Islam, quells his fiery rhetoric in favor of productive dialogue and ultimately loses his life in the pursuit of civil rights.<br />This book is unforgettable.  Rich details are interspersed throughout the autobiography and Malcolm is painfully candid about his past experiences (whether sordid or triumphant).  Readers will be amazed by Malcolm's transformation and, in the process, will learn much about the Nation of Islam and about orthodox Islam as well.<br />The book is long but a quick read (Alex Haley's Epilogue is superb).  Malcolm X is probably one of the most misunderstood men of the civil rights era--this book sets the record straight and presents Malcolm X as the intelligent, inspirational leader that he truly was.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	R10V4INCPC6FYW	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	24	31	N	N	Important intro to objectivism	Ayn Rand's The Fountainhead is an engrossing and challenging literary/philosophical book.  <br />At one level, the novel is a simple story, following the life of Howard Roark, an architect with daring vision and uncompromising standards who battles psychologically (and occasionally physically) with the world around him.  Roark dares to design buildings not for their aesthetic or functional purposes as defined by others, but rather for their prima facie, self-serving purposes--a goal which Roark (and Rand) believes is pure and perfect, for the human ego is the fountainhead of all progress.  In opposition to Roark is seemingly the rest of the world--charlatan characters who merely imitate and debase the pure egotistical nature of man.  Peter Keating and Ellsworth Toohey are the main antagonists, both of whom live parasitic, relativistic existences that run counter to Roark's objective philosophical purity.<br />At the second and more important level, The Fountainhead is an introduction to Rand's philosophy of objectivism, which exalts man's place in the universe and actively promotes egoism, capitalism and objective reality as its virtues.  Rand's characters are caricatures, as Rand exaggerates her perspective to drive home her philosophical points.  <br />Regardless of what one thinks about Rand's philosophy, The Fountainhead is an engrossing story that, despite its length, keeps the reader's attention throughout.  Readers will really have to think throughout the novel and will be filled with many questions and doubts at the end of the book as Rand makes a forceful and often persuasive case against modern American society.  <br />While I found Rand's philosophy to be a bit obnoxious and oversimplified, it did not get in the way of me enjoying this book.  Unfortunately, much of the debate about this book has been clouded by people's philosophical and political leanings.  The people who enjoy this book the most are those who go in with an open mind.  Whether you conclude the book in total agreement or utter disgust with Rand's philosophy is moot--readers will be better off for having read this intellectually challenging book.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	RHR1P2637JEMQ	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Important existentialist work	Kafka's The Metamorphosis stands as one of the most important existentialist literary works ever written.<br />The novella follows Gregor Samsa, a lonely and somewhat pathetic salesman who lives at home supporting his family.  Inexplicably, Samsa awakens one morning to find that he has transformed into an insect.  In typical existentialist fashion, Samsa's physical transformation is accompanied by a dramatic psychological transformation, as Samsa's mother and father utterly reject their newly transformed son.  Even Samsa's previously sympathetic and caring sister changes her ways, eventually seeking to destroy the monstrous insect that her brother has become.<br />This novella is meant to be thoroughly depressing and succeeds very well, though there remains a tinge of comedic elements throughout the book.  There is purposefully very little explanation as to why and how Samsa's transformation took place, and Kafka allows the reader to come to his/her own conclusions about the deeper meaning of his work.<br />This is a fast read and an enjoyable one at that.  People vehemently opposed to the existentialist philosophy may find this book frustrating and overly depressing, but it is worth reading nevertheless.  Ultimately, I think each of us has a little Gregor Samsa in us, and all readers will be able to identify with Samsa's plight.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	R34YDSDHD9DEUS	0316611689	111669427	Mutiny on the Bounty: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Classic that anyone can enjoy	Mutiny on the Bounty is a stunning work of historical fiction that is a pleasure to read.  <br />The novel chronicles the events of the HMS Bounty as seen through the eyes of Roger Byam, a midshipman on the infamous Bounty.  Through his eyes, the reader sees the terrible events unfold aboard the ship--the cruelty of Capt. Bligh that ultimately leads Fletcher Christian and much of the crew to mutiny against the captain.   With Bligh left at sea, the crew returns to the South Pacific, seeking to make a new life for themselves and hoping to avoid capture and court martial by the British authorities.  The conclusion of the novel is heart-wrenching and simply superb (and will be left as a surprise).  <br />This novel relies a good deal on historical fact, though the authors clearly fill in the gaps with literary license.  The characters are superbly developed and the story is riveting throughout.  There is much nautical vocabulary, but this shouldn't distract readers as it can be glossed over without losing any significant content.  I am not a historian and can make no statements about the veracity of the portrayals in this book.  I do know that readers will find this novel difficult to put down.  It is simply a classic story.	2002-09-02
US	51320210	R60NIBB83U40P	0192545051	828520978	Oliver Twist (Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well-constructed novel with important underlying message	Like so many of Dickens' novels, Oliver Twist is a fantastically crafted and engrossing novel.  Dickens follows the life of a young orphan boy, Oliver, who grows up amidst desperate poverty in London in the early 19th Century.  Dickens leads the reader on a delightful and engaging romp, as Oliver escapes his orphanage, gets mixed up in the wrong crowd, and ultimately comes out on top.<br />The story within Oliver Twist is very engrossing, replete with many twists, turns and surprises that are occasionally tragic but more often witty or flat out hilarious.  The characters are all superbly developed, and the multiple story lines are intricately and cleverly woven together.  Oliver Twist is an excellent introduction to Dickens, and patient readers will find this novel accessible.  The intricate plotline does require some concentration, while some readers may be annoyed by Dickens' notoriously lengthy sentences.  <br />This is an important book to read for it is heavily engrained in Anglo-American culture and most first-time readers will recognize many of the names (Fagin, Artful Dodger) and scenes from previous cultural references.  While clearly enjoyable at the superficial level, the novel also makes a powerful statement about poverty and the power of the human spirit in the face of depravity.	2002-08-30
US	51320210	RT6MRTXB6Q1QA	0452262933	337991686	1984	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beware of the thought police...	George Orwell was always known for handling tough issues in his novels and non-fiction works.  1984 is a timeless example of Orwell's fearlessness, as the novel deftly broaches topics such as totalitarianism and free thought--topics that were eminently important in 1948 (when in the novel was written) and remain important to this day.<br />The novel follows Winston Smith who is loyally employed in the Ministry of Truth within the futuristic nation of Oceania.  However, in Orwell's futuristic world, nothing is as it seems, for the Ministry of Truth seeks actually to destroy historical truth in an effort to protect the unknown but seemingly omniscient &quot;Party&quot; which rules Oceania under the direction of the totalitarian leader known simply as &quot;Big Brother.&quot;  What follows is a dramatic transformation of Winston as he questions his role in this perverse society, where spies are everywhere, privacy is non-existent and rebellious thoughts, let alone actions, are criminal offenses.<br />This is a disturbing satire that stunningly dramatizes the perversities of totalitarian/fascist societies and ultimately makes an important statement about human freedom within society.  Orwell is a talented writer who moves the story along brilliantly, keeping readers glued to the book and throwing in many unforeseen twists and turns.  The conclusion of the novel, with its dramatic last sentence, is classic and troubling.  This is an important book for all to read and most will enjoy doing so.	2002-08-21
US	51320210	R2REEL0QHZPJ7A	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Engaging Historical Fiction	I, Claudius is an engrossing read that follows the life of Claudius, a member of the Claudio-Julian lineage of Roman emperors.  This is a fictional work but is based considerably upon historical records and writings about the various intrigues of the Roman emperors.  <br />Claudius plays the part of sharp observer throughout much of the novel.  He was born with a stutter and thus was deemed to be incompetent, dull and therefore not much of a threat to the imperial powers.  He therefore witnesses many of the most dramatic and terrible events of Roman history, including the bizarre reigns of Tiberius and Caligula.  Despite his outward infirmities (which Claudius is all too willing to play up in an effort to save his neck), Claudius' narration is sharp, witty and downright funny in places.  Through his eyes, the reader sees the various backroom maneuvering that made imperial Rome so interesting.  <br />This a delightful book that moves quickly under the steady writing of Graves.  Even for those without much knowledge or interest in ancient Rome, the intrigues are often more intriguing than what true fiction writers are capable of producing.  This is a great novel for all readers.  Readers will be sad to finish this book but happy to know that an equally delightful sequel awaits them.	2002-08-21
US	51320210	R12DKMTKVJV83U	0448060248	557004951	The Three Musketeers (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Just plain fun to read	Dumas is deservedly famous for his intricate and engrossing novels, and The Three Musketeers is certainly no exception.  As far as classics go, this one is among the most fun that you'll ever read.<br />The novel follows the protagonist D'Artagnan as he tries to join the French king's elite bodyguard unit, the Musketeers.  D'Artagnan befriends three current Musketeers (Porthos, Athos and Aramis) and what follows is a fast-paced literary romp as the four friends share a series of swashbuckling adventures in 17th century France.  The plot is full of twists and turns but is cleverly developed and believable.  Dumas expertly develops the characters, engaging the reader as the characters experience war, love and just about everything in between.<br />The edition I'm reviewing (the Illustrated Junior Library version) is highly abridged (300 pages vs over 600 pages) and has many beautiful illustrations, making an already fun novel even more accessible for young readers.	2002-08-20
US	51320210	REWU9YNV2453T	0553271466	203661111	The Scarlatti Inheritance	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Early Ludlum book needs some refining	This is one of Ludlum's earlier works (I believe it might be his earliest) and the lack of refinement clearly shows. The novel focuses on Elizabeth Scarlatti's efforts to stop her son from using his wealth and power to provide the Third Reich with incalculable resources in the period before WWII. <br />The book can be confusing in places and it definitely helps to have an understanding of how stocks/securities work because much of the plot revolves around the manipulation of securities. The plot fits together decently, though there are some holes that ultimately left me scratching my head at the conclusion. I found the beginning half of the book to be immensely engrossing, but the pace quickened toward the end, leading to what seemed like a rushed and forced resolution. Worthy reading if you like Ludlum, but others might prefer one of his later and more refined works.	2002-08-20
US	51320210	R2IBQK3XZLRU8K	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Literary classic	This is a simply superb American novel, as disturbing as it is riveting.  <br />The novel follows Alex and his troupe of marauding friends as they happily go about murdering, stealing and terrorizing in their superviolent world of the not-too-distant future.  Burgess tells the story from Alex's point of view, giving the reader tremendous insight into the sadistic and troubling inner-workings of the \\"protagonist's\\" mind.  This choice of narrative point of view has an interesting effect: while the reader can't help but be disturbed by the senseless violence perpetrated by Alex and his posse, readers will find themselves actually caring for and understanding Alex (most of us have at least a little bit of Alex in us).  <br />When Alex is finally arrested for his horrible crimes, the government seeks to inflict its own version of violence upon him, trying to reprogram his perversely violent mind into the mind of a peaceful, law-abiding citizen.  The moral implications are obvious and troubling: can society violate someone's free will to make them peaceful and good?  <br />The novel is perhaps most famous for the futuristic slang language (\\"Nadsat\\") that Burgess interweaves throughout the dialogue.  The use of this language may be a bit confusing at the very beginning of the novel, but Burgess eases the reader into it, making it easy to understand quite quickly.  Some readers may need to read sections a few times initially to get comfortable with the vocabulary. Despite this smattering of peculiar words, the book reads surprisingly fast.<br />Many people are more familiar with Stanley Kubrick's famous on-screen adaptation of this novel but it is important to note that this edition of the book contains Burgess' original 21st chapter which was omitted from the first US editions and from Kubrick's movie version. <br />All in all, this is a fantastic novel that will present readers with multitude of emotions.  At times the book can be horrifying, at other times, heart wrenching, and at other times, downright funny.  The novel's plot is certainly strong enough to stand on its own, but what makes the book a classic is its thought-provoking attempt to examine the role of free will and the role of society in promoting good, regardless of the costs.	2002-08-20
US	51320210	R1W722MWWH9LIZ	0679736638	158144239	The Confessions of Nat Turner	Books	4	42	42	N	N	American classic from one of America's best	This is a stunningly intense and powerful novel.  The novel is written as the final confession of Nat Turner following his brutally violent slave revolt of 1831.  The account is fictionalized though relies heavily on historical facts for its basis.<br />The novel is painfully tragic as Styron masterfully portrays Turner's existence within the deep south during slavery.  Styron's novel is filled with many tragic ironies that mirror the strange logic of slavery and oppression.  Turner is initially uplifted by the power of religion, but eventually uses the Bible and bizarre visions to justify his brutal revolt.  Throughout the novel, Styron is even-keeled, never passing judgment on Turner, ultimately allowing the reader to come to his/her own conclusions.  The novel is vivid and necessarily graphic in places as Styron depicts the harsh slave world where violence leads to more violence.  <br />This is an important novel to read, for it gives important insight into how history shaped American race relations.  Styron caught a lot of flak for writing this book (he is Caucasian), but ultimately, I believe his detractors are closed minded.  His portrayal is simply stunning, and you needn't be white or black to understand Nat Turner's plight, but merely be a human.	2002-08-20
US	51320210	R3GXU01G3PF0JJ	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Somewhat interesting but slow moving novel	This is the first and only Gabriel Garcia Marquez book that I've read to date, and I must admit that I was somewhat disappointed by the work.  Marquez is a celebrated Nobel prize-winning author, so I had singificant expecations that were not met in the end.<br />The book follows the last months of General Simon Bolivar, the famed South American revolutionary who sought to unite the entire continent into a single power.  Bolivar takes one final trip--a sort of \\"retirement\\" cruise--down the meandering Magdalena river where he recounts and reflects on his past experiences--his victories, failures, loves, enemies, etc.  The book is part historical hearsay (the records of Bolivar's final days are sketchy and contradictory) with a considerable amount of literary license from Marquez.<br />The book is a simple one and its strongest point is the superb character development of Bolivar as the reader learns more and more about the initially enigmatic general.  By the end of the novel, Bolivar is a much deeper character into whom the reader has been given tremendous insight through Marquez's pen.<br />All in all, I found the book to be a slow read. Partly, I think Marquez matches the book's pace to Bolivar's yawning journey down the river.  In addition, I suspect that there was something lost in the translation into English.  Fundamentally, I am not really interested in Latin American history and therefore wasn't engaged by Bolivar's experiences.  People more interested in this field will undoubtedly find the book much more interesting and accessible than I did.	2002-08-20
US	51320210	R1HOTV6TCC2G90	067964010X	401852041	The Education of Henry Adams	Books	3	39	45	N	N	The greatest non-fiction book?	I was intrigued by this book because it is almost universally considered to be the best non-fiction book ever written. I went into the book with an open mind and eagerness but ultimately found myself a bit disappointed. <br />Henry Adams was a member of the preeminent American Adams family (John and John Quincy were his great-grandfather and grandfather). Henry's autobiography follows his uniquely privileged life from childhood through old age as Henry witnesses (and always comments on) the ever-changing American experience and perpetually seeks to refine and further his understanding of the world around him.  This relentless pursuit of \\"education\\" is the connective theme within the autobiography, as Henry continually considers and reconsiders the rapid scientific, technological, economic and political changes that swept through America and the world during his life.  Ultimately, through these experiences and reflections, Henry comes to important conclusions about the role of education, learning and life experiences.  <br />This book is filled with historical references and names from Henry's time period, making the book fascinating for someone who is interested in that period (mid 19th to early 20th Centuries).  I personally did not find these references interesting and in several cases, I felt confused or lost because I completely missed important references.  The strength of the book is Henry's always sharp observation and clever wit.  <br />I think this would be a great book for those interested in Henry's time period or for those interested more broadly in American history.  As someone with only peripheral interests in these areas, I found the book to be a little bit out of my league.  People interested in this historical period will find this book quite rewarding though don't read it simply because it is supposed to be great-- for that would be an affront to Henry's belief in self-motivated education.	2002-08-20
