US	51343369	RKP75WW0H1XK4	0060571233	244730096	Fires in the Dark: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"We are becoming more forbidden with each passing day."	Set primarily during the turbulent era of the Second World War, FIRES IN THE DARK tells the tale of one innocent family targeted for persecution by the Nazi Germans. Yenko's family of Coppersmith Gypsies have spent generations traveling throughout Central Europe while practicing their trade. Although there has always been a distrust between gypsies and \\"gadjos\\", or whites, certainly no one was prepared for what lay ahead for them as gypsies throughout Europe were imprisoned in the horrid conditions of work camps. What follows is an emotional narrative of Yenko and his family during this horrific time. <br /> <br />Throughout the years I have read many accounts, both fiction and non-fiction, of the Holocaust but sadly my exposure to the persecution of gypsies and their specific history during this era was greatly lacking before I read this book. I am now indebted to Louise Doughty for successfully bringing the sorrowing story of Yenko and his family to life and therefore casting light on this under acknowledged population that was oppressed by Hitler and his thugs. Eliminate the unplausible ending and FIRES IN THE DARK would warrant its literary praise.	2005-03-15
US	51343369	R14A3XPIKY50OG	1593150180	531133542	A Son Called Gabriel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Not just another typical coming-of-age novel. Read it!	A SON CALLED GABRIEL goes beyond the conventional coming-of-age novel published in recent years. It delves deep into the emotions and tendencies of young Gabriel Harkin as he grows up in a tightly knit Catholic community in Northern Ireland. As he matures his own sphere of awareness expands beyond his own house and school and includes such serious topics as his own sexuality and strained relations between the Catholics and the Protestants in Ulster. Throughout the narrative Gabriel is simultaneously confronted and compounded by the myriad of secrets hidden deep in the Harkin family. I was pleasantly surprised of how much I enjoyed this novel. I often found myself looking forward to the next possible time when I can pick it up again and resume following Gabriel's adventures through young adulthood. Recommended!	2005-03-06
US	51343369	R3MRHU6ACCNETB	1559706457	214373991	Riot: A Love Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"I am Indian. Listen to me."	Shashi Tharoor's RIOT: A LOVE STORY focuses on the mysterious killing of a young American woman during violent Hindu-Muslim riots in the village of Zalilgrah, India. Priscilla Hart, an idealistic 24-year-old volunteer for a population control non-governmental agency, was the only non-Indian victim of the riots: was she simply in the wrong place at the wrong time or did her brutal death have a premeditated motive? After hearing about Priscilla's death her estranged parents fly to India to try to uncover circumstances leading up to her demise and are joined by an American journalist stationed in New Delhi. <br /> <br />The format of this novel is innovative and unique; included are snippets of American newspaper articles covering Priscilla's death, interview transcripts of both Hindu and Muslim leaders in addition to local police officers, Priscilla's journal entries and letters written to a beloved friend back home, and more. As a result the reader is granted multiple viewpoints of not only the riot itself but also broader religious tensions and history of India. Slowly Priscilla's experiences in India are revealed up to the moment of her death. <br /> <br />I've read a fair amount of Indian Literature and this book impressed me by placing the Hindu-Muslim riots in the proper historical and religious contexts. Most books in this genre might simply refer to religious tensions and violence but they rarely progress further. I'm not sure if the authors of these other books take for granted that the reader already has a sufficient foundation or if they simply neglect to provide the appropriate background. Regardless, Shashi Tharoor did what others fail to do; he granted me a more thorough understanding of this complex subject than I ever had before. For this reason alone I give this book five stars. Highly recommend!	2004-09-20
US	51343369	R2U892TIWPWGO9	1565117840	576876921	The Photograph	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The secrets one leaves behind.	Eight years after the death of his wife, Kath, Glenn Peters surprisingly finds an envelope marked \\"Do Not Open-Destroy\\" that contained a photograph of Kath holding hands with a lover. From this moment in time Glenn embarks on a journey to learn more about the whereabouts and acquaintances of his deceased wife. As the narrative progresses it becomes apparent that Glenn never truly knew or understood the real person that she was. <br /> <br />I listened to THE PHOTOGRAPH while commuting to work and I found it to be an overall enjoyable experience. The plot was not too intricate to warrant special attention of each sentence thus enabling me also pay adequate attention on driving (some plots are just too complex for me to focus on driving and listening at the same time.) The novel was read in London accents that further led an atmospheric feeling and a sense of credibility to the story. <br /> <br />My problem with this book pertains to the plot itself. It was difficult for me to like any of the characters as a majority of them truly annoyed me in their selfishness (Nick and Polly) and coldness (Elaine). Upon finishing I felt the ending was disjointed and out of place. I don't want to reveal any spoilers so I'll just say that the ending was disappointing and just didn't correspond well with the rest of the book. For these reasons I feel obligated to give only a 3-star rating for my mixed reactions.	2004-09-16
US	51343369	R2ROBY4SKJPVT9	0375422889	373105656	Persepolis 2: The Story of a Return	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Fantastic sequel to a modern classic!	Anyone who has read Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood has undoubtedly looked forward to reading any future material from this talented author/artist. Marjane Satrapi possesses a unique skill of profound biographical storytelling and inventive artwork. In her first graphic novel Satrapi remarkably recounted her childhood of growing up in Tehran during the Islamic Revolution. Her liberal middle-class parents helped shape her perceptions of the world and encouraged her to reach her potential regardless of the multiple barriers that limit her everyday choices and actions. It quickly becomes apparent that Marjane is deeply proud of her country but simultaneously saddened by the actions of the fundamentalist Islamic government. <br /> <br />PERSEPOLIS 2: THE STORY OF A RETURN picks off where Persepolis 1 ended. Marjane is sent by her parents to study in Vienna, Austria to escape the bombings and uncertainty of the Iran-Iraq War. As she integrates herself into her new life she experiences a sense of lost identity as she straddles between the West and Iran. Her steadfast pride of being Iranian continues in the face of prejudice and misinformation. Although she has physically grown up her intensity remains. <br /> <br />I was very fortunate to meet Marjane Satrapi at a book reading two nights ago. She is both articulate and compassionate about her life and her perceptions of current geopolitical events. Also, she was very funny and had the audience laughing many times at her varied quirkiness. Her life story is inspirational and sticks with you long after her books are put back on the shelf. Highly recommended!	2004-09-15
US	51343369	R3NR7J3DPU70UX	0385511469	503100411	The Tyrant's Novel (Keneally, Thomas)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A timely fable revealing creativity and innovation.	THE TYRANT'S NOVEL is at once ingenious and innovative in its ability to mirror recent world history events without disclosing vital identities. While reading it is difficult to not think of current geopolitical events. When we first meet protagonist Alan Sheriff he is being held as a political prisoner in an undisclosed Western nation. While being interviewed by journalists Sheriff explains his tale of how he ended up in his current predicament and his former life in an anonymous nation suffering from U.S.-led oil embargo and is ruled by a ruthless dictator. As the narrative unfolds the similarities between Sheriff's home country and Saddam Hussein's Iraq is quite uncanny and difficult to overlook. <br /> <br />Sheriff was once a member of the elite middle class largely unaffected by the devasting economic repercussions of the oil embargo. But despite his social standings he has created a reputation for his literary skill he is ordered by the tyrant to write a novel about the chaos that has burdened his country to be published under the tyrants name and released in time for a forthcoming G7 summit. Sheriff's been provided a very short deadline and in order to complete this unthinkable task he must battle personal demons that plague him. <br /> <br />Thomas Keneally performs a superb job in creating this fast-paced thriller that failed to lose steam at any given time. I was immediately hooked by the opening paragraph and couldn't wait to reach the end. Recommended.	2004-09-07
US	51343369	R3ELZJB7P0DW8C	0743243315	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Disappointing.	Allow me to preface this review by stating that I really wanted to enjoy BRICK LANE; I have a weakness for literature from the Indian subcontinent and always enjoy the colorful quirky characters, but this book never delivered any enjoyment. The beginning was slow and Monica Ali's prose was disturbingly choppy and uneven. About halfway through I was ready to hang my hat and call it quits as the plot became more and more ridiculous. The only redeeming quality was the character of Chanu, the patriarch of the family, who was beautifully created and realistic. I wish that Ali would have focused more on him and put the wife to the background. Her letters from her sister in Dhaka were painful to read and made my eyes ache trying to figure them out. What literary purpose was it to write letters in that style? To put it mildly I was very disappointed with BRICK LANE and wonder how it even achieved the esteem of being on the 2003 Booker Shortlist? There are much better books in this genre that should receive more attention. Not recommended.	2004-09-03
US	51343369	R2F8VYS0K0Q3E5	1400049733	819034573	Off-Season: Discovering America on Winter's Shore	Books	4	3	4	N	N	For the love of the ocean.	Throughout his life the ocean has mesmerized Ken Alpine; the effect on his soul by the ocean has been tremendous. He even states that he was almost born and he kissed his true love by the ocean's edge. What interests him are individuals who are also connected to the ocean and who live within its vicinity year round. In OFF SEASON Ken Alpine embarks on a physical, albeit emotional, journey north from Florida to Maine during the autumn and winter months after the departure of the tourists to ascertain the authentic edge of the Atlantic Ocean. <br /> <br />I have very little experience with the East Coast so reading this book was refreshing. I gained a new perspective of how these small communities survive and have evolved throughout the decades and their inhabitants. Soon after beginning this book it is clearly apparent that Alpine is no fan of tourism and the development of the oceanfront. He continually laments the commercialization and homogenization of society and it's destructive forces; during his journey he deliberately avoids the large tourist resorts in favor of the unforgotten fishing towns that border the Atlantic. <br /> <br />If you don't mind repeatedly being bombarded with Alpine's political agenda OFF SEASON is a meaningful, innovated travelogue of one man's fascination and concern with the ocean and the individuals who make their living near it year around. Recommended.	2004-09-02
US	51343369	R1ZFO1L96E85JX	0786712945	250951862	Rape: A Love Story (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	4	36	41	N	N	"She had it coming. She asked for it."	I've hesitated reading RAPE: A LOVE STORY since it was published; the idea of reading about a rape never constituted pleasure reading for me with any stretch of imagination. But to tell the truth, I was also intrigued by the subtitle \\"A Love Story\\". Something was telling me that Joyce Carol Oates was going to put an eccentric spin on a terrible sequence of events and for that I wasn't disappointed.  <br /> <br />I read this novella in one setting and it was a very difficult and painful experience for me. Oates creates a typical situation in which the victim is ruthlessly blamed for her demise while the perpetrators receive the community's sympathy. In this rendition of this tale the victim has the backing of a renegade who takes matters into his own hands to right the wrongs of the faulty criminal justice system.  <br /> <br />In retrospect RAPE: A LOVE STORY is worth reading and to a degree necessary, not just for fans of Joyce Carol Oates but also for individuals everywhere. Recommended.	2004-08-29
US	51343369	R28ID0MX2DV281	1400034000	97037419	Vintage Naipaul	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good introduction to V.S. Naipaul.	If you're new to V.S. Naipaul and want to get acquainted with his work, both fiction and non-fiction, look no further; this is the book for you. <br /> <br />Born and raised in Trinidad of Indian ancestry in 1932 Naipaul writes superbly on the plight of the post-colonial peoples and nations. He has since written 27 books of which seven short excerpts are included in this anthology. <br /> <br />I was delighted that one of his most memorable and flawed characters is included: Mr. Mohan Biswas of THE HOUSE FOR MR. BISWAS that is my favorite Naipaul book. In the selection from THE ENIGMA OF ARRIVAL Naipaul demonstrates his art of expertly and convincingly describing the physical surrounding of the English countryside. Also included are several excerpts from his non-fiction books that enable one to read a wide gamut of his themes.  <br /> <br />There is no doubt that this compilation could have been longer; 190 large font pages undermine the scope of this talented writer. Regardless, it's a good start for readers who are just becoming acquainted with V.S. Naipaul.	2004-08-27
US	51343369	RI9DBABK8BS4K	0312315716	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Suburban life out of kilter.	Tom Perrotta's undisclosed East Coast suburb is a digression of the more traditional idyllic visions of suburbia complete of happy, contented families residing in spacious homes with freshly cut green grass. The protagonists in LITTLE CHILDREN are faced with the rude awakening that their lives are not what they had expected. Meanwhile, word has spread that a registered sex offender has moved into their community that sets off waves of anger and distrust. There is little doubt that their neighborhood is unraveling at the seams. <br /> <br />What really impressed me was how Perrotta was able to effectively get into the heads of his characters and displayed the subtleties of their internal feelings and motivations. This resulted in the creation of realistic characters. Packed within these pages is an abundant of social insights and commentaries on the fate of stay-at-home parents and, of course, the plight of convicted sex offenders who try to reintegrate into society.  <br /> <br />My one disappointment was how Perrotta resorted to the clich sex offender (male, white, overweight, balding wearing thick spectacles.) It would have been much more interesting to reach beyond these stereotypes. Heck, in suburban Chicago a woman was recently arrested for molesting children along with her husband. Now that would have been interesting to include in this book!	2004-08-24
US	51343369	R2V9RPUKOEVZI8	0684857529	34918879	Lonesome Dove : A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Wild West comes alive in rich colors and textures.	Whew! After reading 858 densely typeset pages I can now attest that LONESOME DOVE is one of the better books I've read this summer thus far; I savored each and every word in this weighty tome. Little did I know when I first picked up this book I would be in store for such a unique and awe-inspiring reading experience. I've never read a Western before but Larry McMurtry's straightforward and clean prose along with an intriguing plot keep me interested from cover to cover. This book transported me to another era far removed from daily stresses of job and commute. For this reason alone I always looked forward to the next instance when I would be able to return to the narrative and escape my surroundings for a while. <br /> <br />Set at the end of the 19th century after the Civil War but before the final demise of the Native Americans and the buffalos, McMurtry's narrative follows the two protagonists Gus and Call as they engage in a cattle run from the Mexican border town of Lonesome Dove in South Texas to the wild frontier of Montana in hopes of being the first to settle the wild terrain. Along the way they confront unpredictable weather, the constant threat of Indians, and uncertain death of the hired hands. The descriptions of the land and the situations that the cowboys had to endure are amazing. After reading this book I feel I have a better grasp of this important period in American history. Highly recommended.	2004-08-20
US	51343369	R46P4O5ZII0SC	0375700021	810736975	The Gangster We Are All Looking For	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Exquisite storytelling.	In 1978 six Vietnamese boat people were intercepted in the South China Sea and sent to a refugee camp in Singapore. After being sponsored by a church group they were sent to live in San Diego and start a new life. The young girl and her father are the first to arrive followed by the mother several years later. Their relationship with their sponsor is strained and the girl and father eventually move out on their own and forge out a new life in their strange surroundings; the girl attends school and the father works odd menial jobs. <br /> <br />In many aspects THE GANGSTER WE ARE ALL LOOKING FOR is an unconventional novel; there is no plot and little action. Rather, this book contains streams of consciousness of the young girl who is the narrator. There is an abundance of fanciful dreams and child-like perceptions of the world around her, along with her view of her parent's relationship and her mourning of her brother's death. Admittedly this book is slim but there is much essence packed within its 160 pages. Le Thi Diem Thuy performs an admirable job in re-creating the experiences of a Vietnamese family who immigrates to Southern California in a marvelous and unique style.	2004-07-30
US	51343369	RCG4UUQ5LDDFX	0060934808	931435117	Dreamland: A Novel	Books	3	11	14	N	N	History of Coney Island comes alive...well, sort of.	Kevin Baker's vision of early 20th century New York City is jam-packed with rogue characters in dicey situations: corrupt politicians, street gangsters, underground rat fights, cheap whores, dilapidated tenements, sweat-shop conditions of the garment industry, and side show entertainers of the Coney Island amusement parks. It is easy to be confounded by Backer's dense and lyrical descriptions; it's apparent that he accomplished more than his share of research to write this book. I really enjoyed reading about Esther Abramowitz and her adventures at work, home, and her secret lover on the Boardwalk. The descriptions of her Jewish parents and immigrant neighborhood were also noteworthy. <br /> <br />I truly adore a quality work of historical fiction that makes the past become alive in vivid colors and transports me to a different era. Unfortunately, DREAMLAND fell short of my initial expectations and was an overall disappointment. What attributed to the book's demise is the evident lack of focus; there were just too many subplots that stole the spotlight and distracted the reader. Some aspects appeared unnecessary such as the inclusion of Freud and Jung while others were opaque and off-putting. If Baker trimmed off the excess weight and improved his focus this book might have the potential to be greater than it is in its present state. There are some redeeming qualities in DREAMLAND; it's just unfortunate that you have to dig through so much muck to uncover it.	2004-07-28
US	51343369	R220S3DUEKRGJ7	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Shocking, fast-paced, honest. I loved it!!	I admit that I'm not all that familiar with Vietnam War literature but I have read a variety of war books in general; with all that said, I was immediately struck by Tim O'Brien's accessible prose and shocking narrative. From the reader story O'Brien takes the reader on an unforgettable journey through the Vietnam jungle and to the present-day for the surviving soldiers. It is unthinkable what these young men had to endure: stress, bloodshed, moral uncertainty, and deep friendships. Tim O'Brien brings this world alive in splendor.        Disguised as a collection of short stories, the stories contained in THE THINGS THEY CARRIED are interconnected and combine to create a heavy-duty narrative of war. Admittedly there were some passages which were difficult to read but looking back I believe they are vital to this book's overall drama; without their inclusion the narrative would have been watered down and edited.      THE THINGS THEY CARRIED is a quick, albeit powerful, book that affectively transforms the reader back to Vietnam. Highly recommended.	2004-07-25
US	51343369	R36CA6LRF1FSUO	0618386017	408289483	This Is Not Civilization: A Novel	Books	4	38	41	N	N	&quot;He felt he would drown under so much guilt.&quot;	Loosely autobiographical, Robert Rosenberg's THIS IS NOT CIVILIZATION follows the international voluntary efforts of young idealist Jeff Hartig as he works on an Apache Reservation in Arizona, in a remote village in Kyrgyzstan in Central Asia, and in the bustling city of Istanbul, Turkey. Rosenberg himself engaged in similar voluntary activities similar to his main protagonist thus resulting in his extraordinary sense of details for these exotic locations and populations. <br /> <br />Throughout Jeff's volunteering he became acquainted with many individuals who made a profound impact on him. They helped Jeff create clarity for their culture's circumstances in addition to helping him make sense of his own history. But as time progresses he feels that he cannot stay for long in one location; he is in search to find a cure for his internal restlessness. Jeff has the simple goal of engaging in work that would have immediate and tangible results, work that is good for humankind. <br /> <br />Despite Jeff's good career intentions it is interesting to note that in his personal relationships he fails to convey such noble actions. In fact, there are many instances, especially during the conclusion of the narrative, which Jeff acts selfishly and is arrogant against his friends and acquaintances. But while Jeff acknowledges his poor behavior and feels guilt he fails to effectively make changes. I found this paradox to be frustrating and irritating to absorb. There were many passages in which I wanted to shake him to his senses. <br /> <br />There is much to critique about the three settings of this book. The first two, the Apache Reservation and Kyrgyzstan, are suffering under their own forms of cultural isolation and desperation. Most notably is how Rosenberg resisted to idolize these locations and cultures, rather, he included their downfalls and stark facts such as bride kidnapping and high rates of suicide. <br /> <br />THIS IS NOT CIVILIZATION is a fast compulsory read that is full of humor and effective cultural insights. I felt as if I really traveled to these locations along with Jeff and I received a mental image of these diverse people and landscapes. Recommended.	2004-07-23
US	51343369	R199ZZLRVGIHDR	0375704531	809033531	The Girl at the Lion d'Or	Books	3	3	4	N	N	&quot;I've kept too many secrets in my life.&quot;	From her arrival at her new job at the Hotel du Lion d'Or young and beautiful Anne remains reclusive and mysterious to those around her. When questioned about her past or her family she provides vague answers and possesses a gift of changing the subject. According to hints scattered throughout the narrative it is apparent that Anne has a secret to hide. While waitressing Anne becomes acquainted with a small group of local men, including Charles Hartmann who is stuck in an emotionally devoid marriage and plagued by his past of fighting during the Great War. As their friendship deepens and blossoms into a love affair Anne feels that her own past has to be revealed and dealt with before their relationship can continue.  <br /> <br />THE GIRL AT THE LION D'OR is another example of Sebastian Faulks's principle setting of France greatly disturbed by the affects of war. As the result of being set during the 1930's this novel includes the political backdrop of the threat of another German invasion on the heels of the staggering human loss of the Great War the reader receives a clear vision of just how vulnerable France was during this era and the affects on its inhabitants. <br /> <br />Unfortunately I found the love affair between Anne and Charles to be rather mundane and uninspiring; the only incentive that kept me reading was to find out what was Anne's mystery. To be completely honest, without this ploy I would have abandoned reading far before the ending as there just wasn't much to keep me interested. I generally felt let down.	2004-07-20
US	51343369	R2QVS8CDNP0E01	1573222747	353133291	Crossing California	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Enduring and satirical portrait of Chicago 1979-1981.	The setting of CROSSING CALIFORNIA initially peaked my interest. I live fairly close to the Rogers Park neighborhood on the far north side of Chicago and have frequented several of the restaurants, parks and schools sprinkled throughout this book. I have eaten at Wolfy's, attended Roycemore School and daily drive past Mather Park. In essence, I cross California Avenue every day. With all that said, I can attest that Adam Langer knows his stuff well. He successfully captured the essence of Chicago.<br />Set against the city's and nation's social and political upheavals, CROSSING CALIFORNIA focuses on the lives and turmoil of a myriad of characters, mostly Jewish, who reside either to the east or west of California in Rogers Park. Included are oversexed teenagers who constantly buck the system by smoking pot, shoplifting and projecting their voices loud and clear along with their parents who filled with parental ills of their own. Each character is marvelously flawed in their own respects.<br />The narrative is told from diverse points of view and each are cleverly connected to the others similar to a spider web. Lastly, this book is hilarious and, despite the cliche, made me laugh out loud many times. I found myself astounded by Langer's social satire that was constantly fresh and never stale or distracting. This is a great debut novel by a talented new writer; I will definitely look forward to more works by Adam Langer in the future. Highly recommended.	2004-07-14
US	51343369	R338PU2E1EYZL1	0312320876	56175937	Ladies Coupe: A Novel	Books	4	17	20	N	N	&quot;A woman with an opinion was treated like a bad smell.&quot;	Before early 1998 special counters for women, senior citizens and the handicapped were in Indian train stations in addition to ladies coupes in most overnight trains with second-class reservation compartments. The premise of Anita Nair's LADIES COUPE is based on this historical practice of granting women a separate space away from the eyes of strange men in the hustle and bustle of train travel throughout India, enabling women to talk about their marraiges away from the ears of their husbands.<br />When we first meet Akhila she is embarking on an extended train journey for reasons unknown. Her status in Indian society is precarious; she is a 45-year-old unmarried working. Akhila's traveling companions in her ladies coupe are immediately curious of her situation, but as time progresses and she reveals her life story the other women are not necessarily of the opinion that her life would be complete with a husband. <br />As their train rambles through the Indian countryside each woman tells her own story of childhood and marriage including grime circumstances highlighting lost liberties and unfilled love. There is not an overall happy story in the bunch. It is apparent that the status of contemporary Indian women is the focus of this book and of general concern to Anita Nair. What is most interesting is that men are not simply the enemy; rather, the portrayal of Akhila's younger sister as being selfish and vindictive illustrates how women can also deter the fulfillment of other women. <br />LADIES COUPE provides an intriguing glimpse into a small group of contemporary Indian women of different generations. This book is a good addition to the already growing selection of Indian literature. Also recommended is Rupa Bajwa's The Sari Shop and Samina Ali's Madras on Rainy Days.	2004-07-11
US	51343369	R379P8HBBXHLV7	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	4	4	6	N	N	&quot;In the face of misfortune man is nothing.&quot;	Alluring, exasperating, frustrating, and interesting: these are only a couple adjectives that often characterize reading Gao Xingjian's SOUL MOUNTAIN. The premise is straightforward but Xingjian's approach tends to bring out the best and worst; either readers are profoundly confused or delightfully entertained. One thing is for certain, this is not the type of book that can be plowed through and digested in a rapid manner, rather one is frequently commanded to slowly ponder the narrative and just let the passages and images sink in. Only in this manner does the true essence of this book shine, in my own experience.<br />The protagonist of SOUL MOUNTAIN is largely autobiographical. After being wrongly diagnosed with lung cancer the protagonist sets out on a soul-searching trip through the remote mountainous southern province of Sichuan. As he wonders through the mountains he is determined to travel to Soul Mountain whose existence is debatable. In his search he meets local people and studies their folk traditions and legends, as would an anthropologist, a writer and an intellectual. Set on the periphery of the Han civilization (ethnic Chinese) these cultures are often subjected to Chinese exclusion and ignorance. <br />What often makes this book a convoluted reading experience is that fact that there is little continuity between the chapters. The narrative jumps around and it is difficult to grasp any type of chronological order. Furthermore, there is little assurance that there aren't multiple narratives in different times and places. At first glance SOUL MOUNTAIN can be ascertained as a jumbled mess with a dreamy-type feel. These aspects might be enough to discourage the reader, but that shouldn't result in the rejection of the book. Patience and deep reflection created a memorable reading experience for me. I recommended this book to others, especially those interested in Chinese or experimental literature.	2004-07-07
US	51343369	R2PF2559FLJ0LG	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Well-written, marvelous, provocative.	Peter Hessler spent two years working as a Peace Corps volunteer while teaching literature in the remote Sichuan province in southern China in the late 1990's. Being one the first Peace Corps volunteers in China and possessing an intense curiosity of his new surroundings has resulted in this superb travel memoir that provides the reader with an intimate glimpse into the hill city of Fuling and the history and politics of larger China. During his stay he eyewitnessed the incredible events of the Chinese takeover of Hong Kong and the building of the Three Gorges Dam.<br />Hessler reaches far beyond the average tourist by making a commitment to learn Mandarin and become acquainted with the locals and their individual stories. At the beginning of his stay he was easily started by the overt treatment of the locals of having seen a foreigner but was soon transcended more into Chinese society as his new knowledge and appreciation deepened. Throughout his narrative Hessler frequently ponders Chinese politics and their affect on his students in relation to the United States and as a result brings up numerous provoking issues and concerns. Highly recommended, especially for those interested in China or Peace Corp volunteers.	2004-07-07
US	51343369	R26JXR94XMUVNH	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A woman's retrospective on her childhood.	CAT'S EYE is a formative examination of one woman's often-painful childhood memories of bullying and loneliness. Elaine Risley returns to her childhood city of Toronto to participate in an art gallery show displaying her work throughout her career as a &quot;painter.&quot; Upon arriving Elaine is at once confronted with Toronto's transformations since her youth and thus she engages in a thorough revisiting of her childhood memories in this city. After the Risley family relocates to Toronto after living a vagabond lifestyle in the north, Elaine becomes acquainted with a group of schoolgirls that are often cruel and unfriendly under their innocent exteriors portrayed to others.<br />Margaret Atwood performs a magnificent feat of displaying the complexity and convoluted nature of relationships between young girls and women. The sections pertaining to Elaine's childhood are often painful and frank in their honesty. While reading I couldn't help feeling empathy for Elaine while simultaneously being strangely comforted in my realization that my own strained relationships with women are not unique. But despite these factors I failed to enjoy this book as a whole. Once Elaine reached high school I felt the narrative lost steam, became unexciting, and was often bogged down with unneccessary details and painful minutiae of the setting resulting in my careful skimming of the last half and a sour taste in my mouth. Nevertheless, although this isn't by far my favorite Atwood book, it is still worth reading for the aspects outlined above.	2004-06-30
US	51343369	RV8ZIFDTD47FE	0393059227	545162178	The Sari Shop	Books	4	18	20	N	N	&quot;When you explore life, you also explore yourself.&quot;	Ramchand has obediently worked as a clerk at the Sevak Sari House in the city of Amritsar, India for eleven years; alternating his time between the Sari shop located in the city's old bazaar and his one room apartment with minimal possessions. His simple life, however, takes a drastic turn when he is ordered to take a selection of saris by bicycle to a prosperous family who is preparing for their eldest daughter's wedding. Upon entering this strange new world of extravagant automobiles, air conditioning, servants, and wall-to-wall plush carpet Ramchand's mind goes in a tailspin. He has never encountered such luxury before and is deeply affected. <br />From this point forward Ramchand's consciousness is awakened to the issues of class that surround him in his everyday life. He becomes interested in the lives of the various woman who visit the sari shop and listen to their conversations revealing their affluent lifestyles and snobbery attitudes towards others. At the same time, and also at the other end of the class spectrum, he becomes acquainted with the dire situation of his co-worker and his wife who reside in a tin shack in a poor section of the city. Ramchand's experiences quickly led him into a dizzying philosophical journey with potential serious ramifications for many.<br />While THE SARI SHOP contains an engaging and highly entertaining plot, Rupa Bajwa's prose is often uneven and lacks a clear direction, especially towards the middle, that can possibly attributed to this being her debut novel. Hopefully her writing skills will improve and she will continue to publish thought-provoking books with memorable characters in the near future. Recommended, especially for those who enjoy Indian literature.	2004-06-25
US	51343369	R2OKZR76DJIKYG	0805075372	26627325	The Italian Boy: A Tale of Murder and Body Snatching in 1830s London	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Intriguing history of murder, bodysnatching 1830's London.	Before the passage of the 1830's Anatomy Act that allowed medical schools legal usage of bodies of the unclaimed poor, grave robbing was a common occurrence in London and the surrounding countryside. Resurrection men were known to raid newly dug graves and sell the bodies to medical schools for dissection purposes. If a resurrection man was good at his trade he often made more money pedaling the bodies of the dead than the average laborer. Due to the medical establishment's demand for fresh bodies usually outpaced the supply it wasn't uncommon for individuals to be murdered for their bodies. <br />THE ITALIAN BOY thoroughly examines the notorious crimes of three London resurrection men who were charged with the murder of a young Italian street performer in November 1831. Sarah Wise performs a good job in bringing to life this period of London's history that was full of social and political transformations. Although many of the passages pertaining to the trail were dry, there are enough tidbits of social history to make reading this book more than worthwhile. The descriptions of the police investigations and the infancy of forensic knowledge were interesting, along with everyday descriptions of 1830's London. <br />The lure of reading books about the underbelly of life in 19th century London is always difficult for me to resist; if you also enjoy this subject matter then this book will give you a satisfying fix to cure your cravings. 4.5 stars. Recommended.	2004-06-23
US	51343369	R1QRCLT6XQU5VQ	0393325113	678801528	Waiting for An Angel: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;It was a terrible time to be alive.&quot;	Lomba is a young aspiring novelist who is struggling to jump-start his writing career in the midst of chaos and rebellion in Nigeria during the 1990's. The brutal and corrupt Nigerian military government and their battle against pro-democracy demonstrations and sympathizers while simultaneously distancing themselves from other nations form the backdrop of this wonderful and poignant novel. Although Lomba does not actively join his classmates and colleagues in their dangerous protests for human rights and government accountability he can't help but be immensely affected by the political events unfolding around him; he is a bystander who quickly becomes a victim of the circumstances.<br />Written in non-chronological order WAITING FOR AN ANGEL keeps the reader on edge even though the ending is revealed in the first chapter. This novel is a fresh and evocative first-person narrative into the political instability of Nigeria and its effects on the everyday individual. Combining a mixture of historical people in credible, albeit horrifying, circumstances Habila has created wonderful highly textured characters that are at once believable and evoke reader empathy and emotion. As written in a previous review it is recommended to read the Afterword first as it contains essential political context for this novel. There is little doubt that Habila possesses talent as a novelist and I am looking forward to reading more from him. Highly recommended.	2004-06-18
US	51343369	R3ONL6Q5X0YL4Q	0151004218	77621968	All the Names	Books	5	8	11	N	N	&quot;The workings of chance are infinite.&quot;	Senhor Jose has worked as a civil servant in the Central Registry of Births, Marriages and Deaths for twenty-five years. When not working he engages in his covert hobby of collecting articles and photographs of celebrities and supplementing them with vital statistics from his office. While secretly extracting index cards from a file in the Central Registry he comes across a card of an unknown non-celebrity woman that is the catalyst for the journey at the center of ALL THE NAMES. Fascinated by the circumstances of the Unknown Woman's life Senhor Jose engages in a clandestine operation of trying to find her whereabouts. <br />Jose Saramago performs a splendid job of getting into the head of Senhor Jose by highlighting the deductions of internal thought and inquiry and protecting scenarios of anticipated dialogue with others, as demonstrated by his internal dialogues with the ceiling in his house. Saramago's method resulted in a highly enjoyable and nuanced protagonist that is believable and three-dimensional.<br />While reading ALL THE NAMES it is apparent that Saramago's communist beliefs are projected in this novel by the descriptions of the Central Registry by including descriptions of the strict hierarchy of employees and the maximum efficiency of work processes. Even when Senhor Jose goes to another workplace the same structure is accentuated.<br />ALL THE NAMES is one of my favorite novels by Jose Saramago and was a real treat to read.	2004-06-11
US	51343369	R1HZS6BZRWN43J	0140167188	294881452	The Road to Wellville	Books	4	25	26	N	N	&quot;A steak is every bit as deadly as a gun.&quot;	At the turn of the 20th century Battle Creek, Michigan was a magnet for the health-conscious while simultaneously attracting breakfast food speculators from around the country. In THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE T.C. Boyle spins an insightful and entertaining tale combining both of these historical movements. After surviving many attempts to making breakfast food products that were sabotaged by his jealous brother, he turned his attention to developing a sanitarium to launch his firm beliefs in a scientific diet that will treat the nation's ill health. After much hard work and determinism Kellogg's dream soon materialized as the sick traveled from afar to undergo daily enemas and milk diets in an effort to cleanse their systems.<br />According to the back cover this book is &quot;wickedly comic&quot; and &quot;a comic tour de force&quot;, but I felt that this book wasn't all that laugh-out-loud funny. Sure, there is a plenty of T.C. Boyle's smart and intelligent prose but rarely did I find myself giggling while reading. The only passages that made me smile included the antics of Dr. Kellogg's disobedient foster son, especially the Christmas caroling scene.<br />All in all, I appreciated this book for its unique glimpse into this often-forgotten piece of American history; it's difficult to go wrong with T.C. Boyle as he always seems to spin an entertaining story.	2004-06-08
US	51343369	R2MYWTER1X5NBP	0375707166	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One man's quest for a house of his own. [4.5 stars]	Mr. (Mohan) Biswas had an unlucky birth. He was born at the wrong time of day and the midwife claimed that he would &quot;eat up his own mother and father.&quot; From his birth Mohan struggled with the midwife's prophesy while trying to get his life on the correct track, gain independence, and most importantly, to purchase a house for his family away from his meddling in-laws that would give him some peace and quiet. At the surface this novel appears to tell a simple tale of one man's life, but as the story progresses it becomes evident that there is much more to this story than what first meets the eye. <br />V.S. Naipaul spins a delightful tale of rural Indian populations in the Caribbean island of Trinidad. The reader gains a perspective on the multi-cultural history of this island nation while assimilating new beliefs and customs. This novel creates an atmosphere full of poverty, dirt, and apathy but in the midst the main protagonist is determined to make it one his own terms and conditions. Amongst it all there is a clear sense of hope.<br />There is little doubt that the character of Mohan is certainly not an overall likeable man. He has a tendency to be selfish and rude to those who have helped him. But at other times I felt pity and compassion as some of his dearest altruistic actions failed miserably. Mohan is a wonderful yet flawed character.<br />One of the aspects of this novel that I loved most was the humor that often made me laugh out loud! Mohan's interactions with his wife's extended family are often hilarious and riotous. He can certainly make a fool of himself if left to his devices. But I have to admit that the best part were the stories that he wrote while working as journalism in Port of Spain. I continue to laugh just thinking about them!<br />Overall, THE HOUSE OF MR. BISWAS was a wonderful and rewarding reading experience for me that drew on virtually all emotions. I was immediately drawn into the plot and the plight of Mr. Biswas and felt compassion for him (except, of course, when he was making a fool of himself). Don't let the length of this book put you off; it is definitely worth the time investment. Highly recommended.	2004-06-04
US	51343369	R1BEGQF4RMTQU7	0060578769	869267913	Between Two Rivers: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	&quot;Few, very few, get what they want out of life.&quot;	In BETWEEN TWO RIVERS the residents and employees of the Manhattan condominium of Echo Terrace are as varied in their backgrounds and aspirations as the people who ride the subway. Very few things pass undetected by concierge Farro Fescu, a Romanian refugee, who is vastly proud of his job. Keeping a watch over the residents that cross through the lobby all day and night he knows many intimate details of their lives. Among the residents is a Egyptian-born plastic surgeon who specializes in gender reassignments, an obnoxious Wall Street broker who is bent on installing an elaborate fountain in the lobby much against other's opinions, a window who has an abundant amount of small animals in her condo, and a WWII German fighter pilot who has exhausted his 15 minutes of fame. Also included are the various individuals who help clean and repair the units and the building. Under his watchful eyes Fescu knows all their secrets. <br />I was immediately attracted to this book's innovative and original premise but its strong sense of characterizations kept me engaged. Nicholas Rinaldi does a fine job in not only portraying these individuals but also exhibiting how they interact with each other in an honest and truthful manner. Throughout the vignettes there is an apparent sadness that shroud their lives as they delve into their pasts and examine their life choices. They cannot help to wonder what their life would have been like if they made alternate decisions. It is this overlying theme that successfully mirrors reality. <br />BETWEEN TWO RIVERS is a provocative and entertaining book that delves down to the choices individuals make in life and their apparent ramifications.	2004-06-01
US	51343369	R3A2RUWY56HD8J	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	5	11	13	N	N	"Killing the future to preserve the present."	Reading a Chuck Palahniuk novel is a guarantee for a unique and often frightening reading experience, and CHOKE is no exception. I devoured this book in one setting and would rate it as one of my favorite Palahniuk books. CHOKE is full of social satire and rude and gutsy humor that makes one examine the world around them in an entirely different light. There are virtually no sentences that are not affected by Palahniuk's social commentary.<br />CHOKE is centered around Victor Mancini, a sex addict and con artist who works at a Colonial living museum with co-workers who tend to dabble in pot smoking and other insidious drugs while on the job. When not at work he likes to eat out at restaurants and pretend to choke in order to make unsuspecting heroes when the other patrons save his life. It is safe to say that Victor has not had a so-called normal childhood; his mother continually performed stunts at the expense of others and society when she was not in jail and was known to kidnap him and teach him important life lessons.<br />Palahniuk creates brilliant and original scenes that highly entertained and made me chuckle out loud numerous times, including Victor's relationship with the elderly patients at the nursing home and his best friend's obsession with rock collecting. Highly recommended.	2004-05-27
US	51343369	R2QM9XB1B93BGF	0312306237	787485139	Escape from Slavery: The True Story of My Ten Years in Captivity and My Journey to Freedom in America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Horrifying events, inspirational attitude.	Francis Bok was only seven years old when he was kidnapped in his southern Sudan village and forced into slavery by a brutal Arab Muslim farmer in the north. Sadly his tale of slavery and torture is only one example of the centuries old practice of slavery and genocide during Sudan's war between the Arab Muslim north and African Christian south. His master treated Francis poorer than his livestock and he was often given garbage and rotten food to eat. He was virtually cut off from other young Dinka slaves in the area and as a result was forced to withdraw into his own mind for survival.<br />One of the truly remarkable aspects of this book is Francis' positive attitude throughout his ordeal. He never lost hope of escaping and creating a better life for himself. Although he was forced into slavery for ten years and lost contact with his tribe customs and language he never lost his will and determinism to learn about his culture after he was free. Additionally I was impressed with his sense of helping others who are victims of Sudan's war and sending back money to friends in Egypt who were denied United Nations refugee status. In the United States where individualism is the way of life it is refreshing to read how Francis reached out to help others instead of falling into a trap of only caring for himself.<br />ESCAPE FROM SLAVERY is a contemporary narrative that effectively shatters the myth that slavery is a problem of the past. It is sad that the world has kept silent about the appalling problems in Sudan. Time is past due for humanity to stop the needless slaughter of innocent southern Sudanese by their northern neighbors. Highly recommended.	2004-05-26
US	51343369	R1CZJOL9B7XP24	1400062047	930250694	Sweet Land Stories	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Short stories that are a cut above the rest.	I first became acquainted with the marvelous short stories of E.L. Doctorow while reading the 2002 Best American Short Stories anthology; in fact, the first story, &quot;The House on the Plains&quot; included there is also in SWEET LAND STORIES. I often read short stories and Doctorow is easily one of my favorite authors of this genre. His short stories never fail to entertain and amuse me to the last sentence. While short stories from other authors often leave me with a flustered feeling his stories are always delicious and pleasurable.<br />The common denominator between the stories in SWEET LAND STORIES is a unique relationship with the land that they live on and travel through. Often these characters are restlessly traveling from one state to another to get away from the past and start anew. <br />The reason why I didn't give this book a higher rating is because it only contained five stories. It merely sharpened my appetite for more of E.L. Doctorow. SWEET LAND STORIES is much too thin to satisfy its serious fans, but I'll take what I can get in hopes of him publishing more in the near future. 4.5 stars. Recommended.	2004-05-23
US	51343369	R3M9R1W3AKPEJ1	0618526412	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	16	17	N	N	"I am not meant to be alone..."	I feel greatly indebted to Oprah for the simple fact that if she had never chosen this book for her classics book club I would have probably missed out on it entirely. THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER is a gem of American fiction that demands to be read; Carson McCullers has proven herself to be a master at writing about the human condition. Set during the depression-era 1930's in a struggling small town in rural Georgia the characters are continuously battling loneliness and understanding. Events revolve largely around the mysterious mute Singer. As the small town becomes more acquainted with his presence he has gained some unlikely friends who visit him in his boardinghouse room, eat dinner with him at the local cafe, and follow him around town like a spy. <br />The fact that Singer remains a reclusive figure and doesn't reciprocate communication with his guests fails to hamper his popularity. In fact, his mannerisms have resulted in others becoming more attached to him as they mold his companionship to shape their emotional needs for human connects. Sometimes the best friend is someone who just sits and listens without commenting. What his guests fail to know is that Singer himself is battling his own sense of loneliness as a result of his mute friend of ten years being committed to an insane asylum 200 miles away.<br />Carson McCullers has spread a political and social commentary throughout this book. Two of the characters are devoted followers of Karl Marx and his anti-capitalist ideals of how power and wealth should be spread throughout the masses. What better setting then this poor rural town full of squatter housing and unemployment to highlight the difference between the haves and have-nots. Also highlighted are racial undertones that were rampant during this time period. <br />This book is filled to the rim with serious issues of the heart and also society. It speaks volumes to the importance of being linked to others for human companionship. Carson McCullershas created wonderful characters in believable circumstances that are difficult to forget. 5+ stars. Highly recommended.	2004-05-23
US	51343369	R3GTGD94A058XD	0374195625	15209676	Madras on Rainy Days: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Trapped between two cultures.	Layla has spent her life on the periphery of two divergent cultures; while in India she is constantly reminded of her American upbringing whereas while in Minnesota her Indian accent is frequently remarked upon by strangers. This theme of not fully belonging to either culture runs throughout MADRAS ON RAINY DAYS as Layla marries her fianc Sameer in an arranged marriage with plans to return to the United States afterward. This novel provides an in-depth glimpse of a Muslim Indian wedding and its varied traditions resulting in a colorful feast of words and images for the reader.<br />As a result of Layla and Sameer's precarious situation of marrying someone that is a virtual stranger they join in matrimony with their own hidden secrets. Despite their pledge after the conclusion of the wedding festivities to leave the past alone when their secrets are revealed they cause significant tensions between husband and wife and aim to end their marriage. But in the tradition of Indian culture these problems don't simply exist between Layla and Sameer but rather become a matter of discussion and problem solving for both extended families and even the neighborhood itself. <br />There is little doubt that Samina Ali paints a rather somber and sinister portrait of the restrictive Muslim customs and religious beliefs that void the freedoms of Layla and other women in general. In addition the centuries-old feuding between Hindus and Muslims in India also put women in peril and dangerous situations if they are found without adequate protection of men. <br />Overall MADRAS ON RAINY DAYS is a vibrant and satisfying read that touches on several serious issues that deserve attention and consideration. In light of the seductiveness and whimsy of recent Indian literature published in the past several years this book is a good addition to the bunch. I'm looking forward to future books by this talented author. Enjoy.	2004-05-17
US	51343369	R12FOOU30QCIIM	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	17	20	N	N	&quot;Things from the past have to be left alone.&quot;	I'm very grateful that THE SHADOW OF THE WIND was translated into English or I would have missed out on this magnificent and splendid novel. I applaud Carlos Ruiz Zafon's ability to make both the plot and characters come alive on the page ultimately resulting in a satisfying reading experience. At the center of this novel is the young Daniel Sempere who, during a visit to the Cemetery of Lost Books with his father, takes home a discarded novel by unknown author Julian Carax. After becoming intrigued by the book Daniel sets out on a journey back to the beginning of the 20th century to uncover the secrets of the life of Carax. There are enough twists and turns to keep the reader guessing until the very end. As the novel progresses Daniel realizes that there are significant similarities between his and Carax's life.<br />Accompanying Daniel on his journey is the womanizing Fermin who is full of espionage advice and the sadistic and brutal police inspector who has a fearful reputation. Despite the human characters I believe one of the effective characters in this novel is the setting of post-Civil War Barcelona, Spain. Carlos Ruiz Zafon creates a wonderful and intriguing atmosphere including rainy and dark nights punctuated with foggy mornings of the old cobblestone streets. While reading I couldn't help but envision the story in black and white similar to a classic movie. Presented is an alternate side of Barcelona not often seen in other works of fiction or films set in this city. All aspects combine to create an enjoyable book that I highly recommend.	2004-05-12
US	51343369	RSD84QOQ63JVR	0375758992	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	3	18	40	N	N	Disconcerting and upsetting	For some time I've heard many good things about DON'T LET'S GO TO THE DOGS TONIGHT, Alexandra Fuller's memoir of growing up in Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) circa 1970's in the midst of civil war and political instability. As a result I didn't hesitate to search for a copy for myself to enjoy. I was enthralled by Fuller's ability to make the wild African landscape come alive with its varied smells, touches and sights. There were many passages in which I felt transported to the Rhodesian rugged and often-inhabitable landscape. But I became increasingly saddened how Fuller's narrative revealed her family's poor treatment and racist attitudes towards Africans. The structure of this memoir enabled Fuller to include retrospective thoughts about her childhood and how her family, especially her mother, continued to possess racist attitudes towards Africans. Her failure to address these concerns bothered me immensely. The history of Rhodesia is rifted with decades of minority white rule and violence towards Africans who stood up for their rights. Only recently have Africans been granted land rights as they are entitled and whites have been asked to leave. It is indeed sad that Fuller never made friends with native Rhodesians (except her family's servants, of course) and that her vision of Africa includes only non-human qualities. What a world she missed out on. I really wanted to like this memoir but the racism and bigotry left me with a sour taste in my mouth. 2.5 stars.	2004-05-10
US	51343369	R172R11QFPFJGW	0231127448	733335423	A Dictionary of Maqiao	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Poignant, innovative, thought-provoking	In 1970 16-year-old Han Shaogong was sent to the Southern Chinese village of Maqiao in Hunan Province to plant rice and tea as a member of the Educated Youth. During his years in Maqiao he carefully made notations of the differences in culture, customs, and language that he observed as a stranger. Later in his life Shaogong became a central member of the Root-Searching Movement that aimed to undermine and reverse the thought-control mechanisms instituted by the Cultural Revolution and rebel against the highly-structured controls on literature, language, and aesthetics. Shaogong returned to his observations of Maqiao and developed this book to further the movement. THE DICTIONARY OF MAQIAO is structured as a dictionary with 110 entries, but it is not a tedious index of words and meanings; rather this book provides small vignettes of how life, both human and natural, is lived in Maqiao. Shaogong's position as an outsider provides him with a unique perspective of the village. He detailed the often-eccentric habitants and their distinctive language that differs from his own. By documenting these cultural and custom differences Shaogong demonstrates how there is great variety and fluency of unlike the teachings of the Maoist doctrines. I loved reading this book and would highly recommend it to others.	2004-05-05
US	51343369	R3N8QJ1PVLUXS6	0374205094	74965717	The Meaning of Consuelo: A Novel (Americas Award for Children's and Young Adult Literature. Winner)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great coming-of-age story set in Puerto Rico circa 1950's	Consuelo resides with her parents and younger sister in a rented house on the periphery of San Juan, Puerto Rico during the 1950's. During this time period Puerto Rico is undergoing dramatic social and economic changes as the island is continually being Americanized. This rift is mirrored in Consuelo's household as her parents and relatives are split between welcoming modern American products and holding on to uniqueness of Puerto Rican history and culture. Her neighborhood, or pueblo, is filled with gossipy older woman who fail to allow anything to pass their gaze. What's worse, Consuelo's mother has an overbearing personality and is a bit nosey in her own rights. Her aunts and grandmother are a continued source of strength, comfort, and guidance to their family.<br />As Consuelo transforms into a senorita she begins to realize that the individuals who are closest to her are becoming a mystery. Her cousin and best friend Patricio all of a sudden reverts into his own world and stops attending school. There are concerning rumors circulating about his relationship with the pueblo's notorious cross-dresser. In addition, Consuelo's younger sister is slowing adopting curious and strange behaviors that include developing a language of her own. There is little solace or comfort with her parents as her mother suspects her father of having an affair with a woman at work. Nothing is at it seems.<br />THE MEANING OF CONSUELO is filled with frank and sorrowful details of how one girl's transformation to become a woman is burdened without being melodramatic or overdramatic. Judith Ortiz Cofer's prose is sprinkled with colorful Spanish words that add texture to this narrative. I enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it to others who enjoy multicultural themes or coming-of-age stories.	2004-05-04
US	51343369	RCVQAE2KIML3H	0393057925	874844713	Breaking the Tongue: A Novel (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	&quot;The faces fused in a kaleidoscope&quot;	In BREAKING THE TONGUE Vyvyane Loh successfully brings to life the myriad of cultures and languages resulting in a rich tapestry of colors and flavors of Singapore, situated at the tip of the Malay Peninsula. The days of the British Empire are numbered as the Japanese threaten to invade Singapore in the days leading up to Second World War. Within the unstable economic and political landscape is Claude Lim, a young Chinese boy who was raised to only speak the language and admire the mannerisms of England. His parents taught him that the Chinese along with other non-whites are barbarians; the British are much more civilized and cultured. There is little uncertainty that the British will succeed in protecting Singapore from the Japanese menace.<br />Despite their initial beliefs the Japanese experience minimal difficulties advancing south through Malaysia towards Singapore. After his family flees to the relative safety of the countryside Claude is left behind to resume his studies. However, shortly after their departure the routines of everyday life are interrupted when the bombings begin and war becomes more apparent. Claude along with Brit Jack and Chinese Ling-li who strive to survive day by day while running a defunct medical clinic. They dodge bombs and the chaos of the streets to buy food and run the injured to the hospital without knowing when or if any type of normalcy will return to Singapore. <br />One of this novel's strengths is the manner in which Loh highlights and exposes the issues of cultural identity and belonging. There is Claude who is a devout Anglophile and who has essentially turned his back on his cultural identity, Jack who is British but is interested in the peoples of Singapore, and Ling-li who is strong pro-China. These three divergent individuals bunker down and explore their own cultural identity. Throughout the course of this book Claude slowly realizes that all his father taught him is not necessarily true. He begins to regret not knowing the various Chinese dialects and opens his eyes to the futility of his parent's choices.<br />BREAKING THE TONGUE is a book that is well worth seeking out and reading. It is filled with mystery, intrigue, and action and there's much to enjoy.	2004-05-03
US	51343369	R3NPEUU3MEFVEU	0375508198	132624868	The King of America: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	"Remember that my life is a breath."	Reading THE KING OF AMERICA is like taking a breath of fresh air. It's been a while since I've read a book that moved me the way this one had. At the center is Stephen Hesse, young heir to a fortune and life of privileges. His mother raised him after his parents divorced when he was two years old and throughout his childhood Stephen and his mother have remained close. Although his parents reside in the same building on Park Avenue they live completely separate lives. Father and son are virtual strangers and don't attempt a relationship until his early adulthood when Stephen yearns to win his affection despite his mother's hurt feelings. <br />While attending Harvard Steven joins an anthropological expedition to Netherlands New Guinea to study the native tribes. While he has an interest in anthropology his real intention is to gain his father's admiration. The passages pertaining to the rituals of tribesmen and the descriptions of the physical surroundings were fascinating to say the least. As I was reading I felt that I was accompanying them while traveling through the jungles and watching the death ceremonies. <br />One of the true strengths of this book is how the narrative dove headfirst into Stephen's motivations, inspirations and feelings. It was beautiful how his strained and flawed relationships with his father, mother and girlfriend Sheila were portrayed in a fluid and multi-dimensional manner. <br />THE KING OF AMERICA is undoubtedly a small book but there is so much contained within the 213 pages. Large issues of colonization and the appropriation of native cultures are told in a brilliant and fascinating manner. Highly recommended.	2004-04-28
US	51343369	R38T6AAB5TF1KK	159071024X	547208814	The Gilded Chamber: A Novel of Queen Esther	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Interesting premise, mediocre prose	After the death of her parents Esther, a ten-year-old girl, is sent to live with her cousin Mordechai who is a successful tax collector for the king in a distant city. As she travels ancient Persia she doesn't know what to expect in her new life; being twelve years younger she is betrothed to wed him when she becomes a woman. But when Esther arrives she discovers that Mordechai has relinquished his Jewish identity to save his reputation and keep him from harm; furthermore, she is encouraged to follow his lead. While Esther is disturbed to hide her faith she is determined to learn the necessary cooking and housekeeping skills to make a good wife. Four years later Esther while sitting in her cousin's courtyard she is abducted by the king's soldiers to serve as a virgin concubine in the royal court.<br />I had mixed feelings while reading THE GILDED CHAMBER. While I found the general premise of the story to be interesting, I felt the writing was too flat and clunky in parts. I was never drawn into the plot nor was able to 'get into the heads' of the characters. At times the story felt too scripted, such as during the parts when Esther had flashbacks to the day of her mother's death, and the author came through. I really wanted to learn more about life during these ancient times but I was let down. <br />This is Rebecca Kohn's debut novel, and I do believe that there is room for improvement. I just wish that her writing will evolve into the next level in her future novels.	2004-04-23
US	51343369	R3G86R5IVU06U3	0767915747	122269824	Holy Cow: An Indian Adventure	Books	5	73	87	N	N	&quot;Gorgeous splashes of color among filth, flies, and forlorn&quot;	Eleven years after backpacking through India with complaints of the poverty, heat and pollution Australian Sarah Macdonald relented to never return; she even went to the extreme of flipping the middle finger to the ground below as her plane ascended into the sky. Sarah wasn't necessarily happy to quit her successful job in Sydney to relocate to New Delhi to live with her journalist boyfriend; she often wondered if she was making the right decision. Upon arrival she started having flashbacks of pugnant body odor and beggars with leprosy. The pollution and thick smog affected her health and wellbeing. It is clear that she isn't quite cut out to live in New Delhi.<br />After reading the first couple chapters I expected HOLY COW to be filled with constant whining of India's derelict living conditions and complaints based on a Westernized perspective resulting in a mediocre travel narrative. But low and behold, I was soon pleasantly surprised how Sarah slowly evolved and reevaluated the country that she has scorned for so many years. After she started becoming reacquainted in her new home she started looking beyond the mayhem and dirt and began to see the beauty of India. Being a devout atheist when she first moved to New Delhi she slowly awoke and embraced the dynamic religions of Hinduism and Buddhism; she began to appreciate the sounds and surroundings of her new home.<br />While her husband is busy working Sarah was able to travel throughout India with her new perspectives and begins to enjoy the dichotomies that India offers. My favorite side trip was the Buddhist retreat in the Himalayan footsteps that taught her to meditate by concentrating on her breathing. I cannot imagine undergoing anything close to that endeavor.<br />Throughout HOLY COW Sarah Macdonald succeeded in digging past a traveler's first impressions of India to highlight the beauty of this varied land. By reading HOLY COW I now understand just a little bit more of India, and that was my initial goalwhen I first picked up this book.	2004-04-21
US	51343369	R1I5BN8JPS4431	1582344280	736327466	The Fat Girl's Guide to Life	Books	5	21	23	N	N	For women of all shapes and sizes	Despite the title, virtually every woman would benefit from reading this book since very few are immune to distorted body images or have never dieted before. In THE FAT GIRL'S GUIDE TO LIFE Wendy Shanker superbly exposes the brutal truths of the revolving-door diet industry and shrinking sizes of the fashion industry. She intelligently writes with compassion since she has suffered most of her adult life from being overweight and spent a substantial amount of money on diet and exercise in an effort to slim to society's ideal size. Shanker has since made peace with her body and is adamant to let other women know that they're not alone in their battle for the perfect body. She dispenses practical diet and exercise advice that every woman can benefit. <br />While reading I was continually surprised at how Shanker manages to curtail popular ideologies including avoiding the ineffective diet regimes of Weight Watchers along with the commonplace practice of counting calories. Most surprising though was her unsatisfactory experiences of her month-long stay at the highly esteemed Duke Diet &amp; Fitness Center. I have heard much about Duke's reputation but Shanker paints a very different picture of Duke being slow to adopt to new exercise programs and having futile support systems. Her tidbit of frequently seeing a pizza delivery van outside the center's hotel made me chuckle.<br />Throughout her book Shanker sidesteps the stereotype of an overweight person: she's healthy, beautiful, socially active, has a successful career, and is intelligent. She is also feisty and her personality shines through in her book. THE FAT GIRL'S GUIDE TO LIFE is at the same time serious and insightful, funny and original. Highly recommended.	2004-04-20
US	51343369	R3W0JTYSLFBQXK	0060559128	904974670	Holy Fools: A Novel (Harris, Joanne)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	&quot;You wanted me dead, so I decided to live.&quot;	I have a weakness for quality historical fiction and HOLY FOOLS certainly satisfied my cravings. Set on the remote rocky seashore near Brittany, France in 1605 this novel tells the story of a young woman and her child who have taken refuge from her past in a dilapidated abbey. After five years of posing in her new identity as Soeur Auguste she begins to believe that she has escaped her former life as a member of a traveling carnival that often flirted with the law. But the past comes to haunt her as her former lover and nemesis Guy LeMerle under a new disguise has arrived at the abbey with his own plans for sweet revenge.<br />Joanne Harris successfully brings to life the superstitions and witchcraft of early 17th century Europe. I enjoyed the rustic setting: unpredictable weather and the forces of Mother Nature along with the force of wind and rain that has beaten the alley over the decades.<br />HOLY FOOLS is a suspenseful book that contains plenty of plot twists and turns. I surely didn't know how it was going to end until the last couple pages. While I question some of the historical details I managed to look past them and enjoy it without picking it apart. It's a good and satisfying book. Enjoy!	2004-04-19
US	51343369	R1O6LVUYK7QXVP	1582342849	537404137	Sixpence House: Lost in A Town Of Books	Books	4	1	3	N	N	&quot;This town's reason to live is books&quot;	Along the Welsh border is the small village of Hye-on-Wye that has attracted avid readers and dedicated book collectors from around the world. Why? There are forty booksellers but only 1500 residents. This fact alone is surprising considering the fact that readership in general is falling and booksellers are consolidating or shutting down at an alarming rate. In SIXPENCE HOUSE writer Paul Collins and his family decide to sell their San Francisco home and relocate to Hye-on-Wye to live in their ideal setting dominated by books. What follows is an often-humorous tale of their transatlantic move and acclimation to British life. Upon arriving their first obstacle is to buy a house that turns out to be an undaunted task; the types of houses they are interested in are either out of their price range or require significant repairs. <br />One of the most interesting aspects of SIXPENCE HOUSE deals specifically with the destiny of old forgotten books of yesteryear. A tremendous amount of books have been published since the invention of the printing press; yet one ponders the riddle of where all of these books have gone. An indication of the answer lies within this book as Collins details how bulk containers filled with books are shipped from America for resale in Hye-on-Wye on a continuous basis. Book buyers have combed the American countryside buying the libraries of estates and libraries which nobody else had any interest; the dusty books often end up in piles in the bookstores of Hye-on-Wye waiting to be searched by eager bibliophiles like Paul Collins.<br />SIXPENCE HOUSE is a decent read, though Collins' tangents of juxtaposing life in America versus Britain can be taxing and tiring after some time. I would have enjoyed more focus on the books instead of his writing career or taking care of his child. <br />In recent years there has been a proliferation of books about books, and this is another one to add to the growing stack. Enjoy!	2004-04-16
US	51343369	R63XE81DHDVKZ	0802117678	406078378	Remember Me: A Novel	Books	2	5	13	N	N	&quot;I was no one to anyone&quot;	By all accounts Trezza Azzopardi's REMEMBER ME is a dark gloomy novel set in England during the 1930's and 1940's. A box of keepsakes is stolen from a woman who is swatting in an abandoned house and she is determined to recover the goods - her only worldly possessions. Switching from the past and present the reader slowly uncovers the woman's secrets. The protagonist is a young girl with &quot;tell tale&quot; hair who is continuously abandoned, forgotten, and passed among the family after the death of her mother. Throughout her young life each caretaker gives her a new name but is emotionally absent to take care of her needs. She is essentially left to herself while growing up and is often taken advantage of. To make her life more complex she has a gift of seeing ghosts that interferes with her vision of reality. During her childhood she was convinced that the ghosts were responsible for taking away her mother, and later in adulthood her gift was used to capitalize on the grief of the war widows and others who have deceased loved ones. She routinely roams the streets resembling a homeless person with no real purpose or ambitions.<br />The first half of REMEMBER ME is slow and daunting. Azzopardi's prose is described as &quot;spellbinding&quot; on the book's cover but I found it to be lackluster and opaque. I was more confused as the story progressed, and I admit that I was tempted to give up on several occasions. About halfway through the story dramatically picked up and some of the pieces started to come together, and I started enjoying it for the first time. But despite this my overall impressions of this book are jaded. There were simply too many questions left unanswered, or answered in an effective manner. I wanted to sympathize with the main character for her neglectful childhood but the book's eccentric strange tone prohibited me. It's too bad because the plot first appeared to be interesting and I was looking forward to enjoying this book.	2004-04-14
US	51343369	R1DTI4LPDMCQG	087113912X	467744764	The Last Crossing: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	&quot;A boom town draws rogues like a jam jar draws wasps.&quot;	Part historical drama, romance, and character study THE LAST CROSSING has a lot to offer - and rightly so.  Hailed as a bestseller in Canada for two years and only recently published in the United States I've been waiting patiently to get my hands on a copy of this book and now I'm far from being disappointed. Guy Vanderhaeghe takes the reader on an adventure through the British Territory (Canada) filled with remarkable characters and wonderful prose. At the center of the novel are Charles and Addington Gaunt who are sent from England to North America in 1871 by their overbearing father to track down their missing brother Simon who has mysteriously disappeared. <br />After arriving Charles is distressed to learn that Addington is not as concerned about Simon; in fact, Addington has hired a writer to document his journey through the Frontier in an effort to later write a book. The Gaunt's caravan into the British Territory in search of Simon is without incident or danger. Vast and wild pastures filled with dueling Indian tribes and scrupulous whisky traders provide the grand backdrop to this impressive tale. To complement the depth and realization of the landscape Vanderhaughe does a great job of getting into the heads of his characters. I was deeply impressed with his depiction of Charles' torment and grief over his stressed relationship with Simon, and how he wishes he could mend the fences between them. Another successful aspect was how multiple narrators were utilized which enables the reader to gain a better-rounded perspective unlike the reliance of one narrator. <br />It's rare indeed that I become so enthralled while reading a book that I virtually sink into the prose and see the story unfolding in three-dimension around me, and that was exactly what happened each time I picked up this book. For this simple fact I wouldn't hesitate but recommend this book to others. It's been well worth the wait.	2004-04-12
US	51343369	R26Q5XMVTV15OL	1582343853	372577569	Rats: Observations on the History and Habitat of the City's Most Unwanted Inhabitants	Books	4	20	26	N	N	Ratting in New York City	Rats. Most people stay clear from these nocturnal creatures that creep around city alleys eating garbage, most people that is except Robert Sullivan who has dedicated a year studying the Rattus norvegicus, or the brown rat, in New York City. In an attempt to find out more about these mammals that live in such close proximity to urban dwellers he embarks on a journey to unravel the mystery of the brown rat that is often escaping extermination by humans. Scouting out potential alleys to study in Manhattan he finds Edens Alley, a cobblestone alley in the back of several restaurants and other businesses which house dozens of rats that feast on the garbage and slimy liquids. Sitting on a small chair and armed with notepad and night-vision binoculars Sullivan takes detailed notes in the fashion of a biological scientist. <br />Aside from his own observations Sullivan delves into the literature of rats in New York City and individuals who are intimately involved with rats. As a result of his research he arrives at many interesting conclusions. Most attention to rats throughout the history of the city is focused on the conflict between man and rat. Various exterminators that Sullivan has interviewed have revealed the various methods of rat eradication. What I found most interesting was how the brown rat was at times an integral part of history such as the rat battle of Rykers Island in 1915 and the history of illegal rat fighting during the 19th century. Sullivan also succeeds in exposing some well-known rat myths that have survived for decades. <br />As a result of his utilization of several research sources Sullivan created a well-rounded expose of the brown rat in New York City. The tone and style is much like a nature study. Not many people would endure sitting in stinking alleys amidst rotting garbage for a year, yet it was clear that Sullivan has his own skirmishes with rats. He never hides his own fears and reservations while studying Edens Alley. <br />I've often ventured in alleys throughout my neighborhood in Chicago and there are bright yellow rat warning signs that are posted on some telephone poles, yet I have never seen a rat myself. Maybe I'm just not looking hard enough? Maybe if I look a little harder the brown rat would make an appearance? I wonder...	2004-04-07
US	51343369	R157YQ1CKBUKLK	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"A [prostitute's} life is made up of fragments of other people's"	It's difficult to resist the variety of books published in recent years depicting the lives of prostitutes during the 17th and 18th century in London. The descriptions of the dark, dirty, and sordid streets always seem to come alive on the page as the prostitute labors out a dismal existence each day. Their welfare is continuously at risk in the hands of their clients and the unrelenting social structure of this time and place. Nobody places pity on the hardships of the prostitutes; they exist at the bottom rung of society. It's a marvel how contemporary authors have continuously breath life into the prostitutes experiences. Maybe it's the voyeur residing deep inside of me but I do enjoy reading the filthy details of society's underbelly; something that is far removed from my own life experiences. <br />SLAMMERKIN is one of the best books that focus on the doomed life of the street prostitute. Basely very loosely on historical events this book kept me entertained and up late at night. Mary Saunders is a young prostitute strolling the streets of the seedy London neighborhoods in search of cullies, or 'clients'. With the aid of her dear friend Doll and fellow prostitute Mary discovers quickly that she has a knack for the trade. Not having any type of family support Mary must fend for herself in the dangerous streets. She has an infinity for beautiful cloth and loose dresses, or a slammerkin, which are often worn by women in her trade and eventually has a dramatic affect on her livelihood. It should be noted that the actions and motivations of Mary are not admirable in any sense of the word. She is selfish, egotistical, and only cares for herself. I often wonder if Mary is simply a product of her environment, and I wonder how others would act if placed in her shoes? I can only wonder.<br />Emma Donoghue should be commended for creating such a fine work of historical fiction. She certainly has a command for the language and the historical details of this time period. The overall plot and characterizations come alive on the page and do not come off as flat or improbable, as what often happens to books in this genre. Highly recommended.	2004-04-05
US	51343369	RFP8SNN4NZ2Y7	1400041147	873250864	The Dew Breaker	Books	3	24	29	N	N	Sins of the father	Throughout these nine interconnected short stories resides the life of one man attempting to hide from his violent past in Haiti as a torturer. Now older, thinner and living in Brooklyn, New York, he tries to blend in with society. Himself and his wife even keep the truth hidden from their unsuspecting American-born daughter. But despite decades since his crimes their life is less than stress free. They worry that his true identity will be discovered in spite of his altered appearance. While these stories are not told in chronological order, each deals roughly with the protagonist. My favorite story is 'Night Talkers', the tale of one man who travels back to the Haitian mountains to tell his grandmother that he believes he knows the whereabouts of the man who killed his parents when he was a young child. I found the descriptions of rural life fascinating and wanted to learn more about the local customs. But other than a few select stories, I didn't find this collection to be particularly noteworthy. I tend to read many short story compilations and I would rate THE DEW BREAKER as standard. The premise of these stories is certainly appealing as there is an abundance of individuals in the world today who attempt to hide from their violent past and remain undiscovered. As a result I wanted to dig deeper into his mind and his thought processes than what was accomplish here.	2004-03-29
US	51343369	R1KQ13VA8TZCR	0805073205	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel (Auster, Paul)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Sometimes we know things before they happen...&quot;	ORACLE NIGHT starts out innocuous: while recovering from a serious illness writer Sidney decides to pick up the pen again and write. During one of his daily walks through his Brooklyn neighborhood he encounters a stationary shop that he never noticed before. Inside he becomes acquainted with the store's proprietor, M.R. Chang, who has immigrated to the United States to live the American Dream. While browsing the aisles Sidney decides to purchase a blue notebook made in Portugal. But what should be a routine purchase actually results in a bizarre adventure through both reality and fiction. Reading this novel is like reading a story about a story that is yet about another story. Not only is the reader introduced into Sidney's everyday life but they are also become familiarized with the story that Sidney begins to write in the blue notebook that, incidentally, also contains a novel with its own story. Got that?<BR> <BR>Contained within the convoluted plot and sub-plots are serious philosophical lessons for the protagonist. What at first glance appears to be a series of mere coincidences between the differentiated plot levels actually strengthens the underlying message of this book. We often have knowledge of our existence that transcends the present. At first the coincidences seemed contrived, but as the novel progressed I starting going with the flow and was subsequently rewarded.<BR> <BR>Despite how this book unfolds, I was never confused or disorientated. The fragmented strings that first appear to hang out on their own are indeed interconnected in their own manner and are nicely tied together at the end. I enjoyed the journey of reading ORACLE NIGHT. At first glance this appears to be just another slim book but between the covers is a story that worked well for me. Although I had guessed the ending this didn't significantly deter from my overall satisfaction. Paul Auster's gift of prose and imagination are admirable and result in a rewarding and pleasing book. Recommended.	2004-03-28
US	51343369	R2XOYVP27SBW8P	006000438X	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Life in a Bombay apartment building	THE DEATH OF VISHNU is wonderful and poignant novel concerning the inhabitants of one apartment building in Bombay. At the center is servant Vishnu who is found unconscious on the landing of the apartment building. Has Vishnu passed out from drinking or he is dead? No one seems to know. Although many in the building are concerned, no one claims financial responsibility to seek medical help. As Vishnu lies in his own waste two opposing housewives on the next floor cannot arrive at a consensus of what to do, and life continues to unfold elsewhere. Residing above the rival households is a Muslim couple who is enduring a crisis of their own. While their son is having a secret romance with the downstairs Hindu girl the husband is engaged in metaphysical and spiritual journey of his own that only seems to infuriate his devout Muslim wife. On the top floor lives a sorrowful widow who refuses to leave his apartment; instead he reminisces about his deceased wife and the involuntary path his life has taken. As the events of the story unfold the reader is given glimpses of how the consciousness of Vishnu begins to believe that he is a Hindu God and therefore able to perform extraordinary acts. All of these characters and elements combine into a creative and wonderful story. <br />Manil Suri performs a splendid job of balancing the seriousness of this story with clever humor that made me laugh out loud. This rich tapestry of emotions results in a well-balanced novel that is a delight to read. I was instantaneously immersed in the trials and tribulations of these characters, and generally cared for their wellbeing. In the past several years there has been a rush of Indian literature, and I have to admit that THE DEATH OF VISHNU is one of my favorites. The novel gives the reader a glimpse into everyday Indian life in Bombay that is most interesting to someone who has never traveled to this part of the world. One aspect that I greatly appreciated is the fact that there is a glossary included in the back that translates many words and phrases that were used. I only wish that other Indian writers would imitate this gesture as it surely helps a novice like me better understand both the dialogue and the action. Overall, I greatly enjoyed THE DEATH OF VISHNU and would recommend it to others.	2004-03-25
US	51343369	R37SQ4HWGM2DOG	0312422822	115182707	The Coast of Chicago: Stories	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Capturing the essence of Chicago	It is only fitting that this collection of 14 short stories was chosen for the One Book - One Chicago program hosted by The Chicago Public Library this spring. What a better way to promote communal reading in Chicago than to sponsor a book about life in their own city. While reading each short story it is apparent that Stuart Dybek has an intimate knowledge of Chicago. He successfully uses his memories and fondness for the city from his childhood of growing up in the Little Village and Pilsen neighborhoods during the mid-20th century. Each short story details with the passage of time and what it means to live in Chicago. A sense of place is an important factor running throughout each story and successfully unites each story into this collection. The story that resonates the most for me is &quot;Chopin in Winter&quot; about one boy who is immensely affected by an upstairs neighbor who plays the piano each night. The portrayal of the grandfather Dzia-Dzia and his relationship with the principle character are noteworthy and memorable. THE COAST OF CHICAGO is a wonderful collection of short stories that will remain in a special spot on my bookshelves for enjoyment for years to come. I love living in Chicago; and these stories resonated strongly with me. Highly recommended.	2004-03-23
US	51343369	REDMQSHGWMM4W	0385510012	398634354	The Swallows of Kabul: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;It's up to us... to keep hope alive.&quot;	Don't let the compact size of THE SWALLOWS OF KABUL deter you; packed inside this small book is a beautiful yet startling story of life under Taliban rule. Originally published in French in 2002 and only recently translated into English this book captures the imagination and doesn't let go until the last page. At the center of this tale are two men who are otherwise strangers with the exception of frequently coming into contact with each other in public. Atiq Shaukat is a jailor for the condemned. He watches over the prisoners until they are hauled off to the Kabul stadium to their execution. Atiq's commanders along with others express their concerns about Atiq's mental health and stability. Atiq is frequently seen wondering the streets of Kabul muttering to himself and being transfixed by his wife's failing health. On the other hand Mohsen Ramat is undergoing is own internal crisis. Although he defines himself as a conscientious objector and opposed to the Taliban he is shocked when he finds that he relished delight during a public stoning of a woman. Not only is Mohsen shocked with himself by his behavior but also he regrets the actions of his beloved wife after he confides in her. The trials and tribulations of these two men become forever intertwined as the novel progresses to a climatic ending.<br />Yasmina Khadra's sense of Kabul is brutal and unrelenting. The descriptions of the arid weather, the relentless dust, and the powerful force of the scorching sun make one grateful to be in the shade. He successfully brought to life the rugged and dry landscape of Afghanistan and the city of Kabul high in the mountains. In addition to the physical descriptions of the land, Khadra's focus on the plight of the women and men are superb and insightful. He adequately describes the dire affect that Taliban rule had on the moral consciences of ordinary individuals. While the main characters are male, I believe the main focus is the plight of Mohsen and Atiq's wives under harsh religious rule that places no value on the feminine gender. The swallows in the title are a euphemism for the faded blue and golden yellow burqas that erase all individual characteristics of women and renders them objects. They are the sparrows of Kabul, and the spirit of this novel. Recommended.	2004-03-20
US	51343369	R13RY4ALKYR7PU	1400030897	963337631	The Mulberry Empire: A Novel	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Expansion of the British Empire	Set during the 1830's MULBERRY EMPIRE focuses on the expansion of the British Empire into central Asia. Already holding India as a prized possession, Britain looks beyond the horizon to Afghanistan in hopes of dominating trading and beating the Russians. At the center of the novel is Alexander Burnes, a Scot, who publishes a book about his travel experiences to Kabul that sends literary waves throughout London and beyond and draws attention to the need for expanding the British throne into Afghanistan. Alternating between London and Afghanistan this novel attempts to highlight the historic role of western powers in Asia. Books that fall into the genre of historical fiction are often hit or miss, and MULBERRY EMPIRE falls somewhere in between. Some passages are awe-inspiring while the remainders are downright clunkers. I greatly enjoyed the chapters devoted to London and the character of Charles Masson. Philip Hensher's descriptions of the Season and the upper class bring the characters to life on the page. His metaphors are witty and repeatedly brought a smile to my face. These aspects are the true highlights of this novel. It is unfortunate that the remainder of this book can often be dull and disappointing. Hensher's prose tends to be reminiscent of Victorian-era authors who were often paid by the word and therefore expanded their writing into dreadful details and painful insights. On the cover Hensher is described as a modern-day Dickins and Tolstoy. While the verdict is still out on that claim I have to admit that I was disappointed in THE MULBERRY EMPIRE, and would hesitate recommending it to others.	2004-03-19
US	51343369	R1G9WITJ33CKRN	1573222453	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	3	5	N	N	&quot;A way to be good again.&quot;	THE KITE RUNNER is a stunning, brilliant novel that easily rates as one of the best books I've read thus far this year. I became so enthralled in the story of Amir that I finished it in two days and I'm normally not a fast reader. Set primarily in Kabul, this book follows the complex and strained friendship of Amir and Hassan from their birth to adulthood. It is not easy to like Amir since his treatment of Hassan is disrespectful and neglectful. Amir's relationship with his father is also strained as he consistently fails to win the affection of his father. One of the strengths of THE KITE RUNNER is the convincing character development. As he grows up Amir's conscious is much bothered by his past, and he seeks to redeem himself of the past. Even after immigrating to California he finds it difficult to bury his memories of Hassan. The only path to salvation is to return to Afghanistan and &quot;be good again.&quot; The descriptions of Kabul (its society, food, history, and landscape) are powerful and realistic. I was easily transported into the daily life of Kabul. Also, the passages pertaining to kite running and competition were excellent. I could easily envision the kite battles and the children chasing the kite through the streets. It's difficult to believe that THE KITE RUNNER is Khaled Hosseini's debut novel, and I sincerely hope that it is not his last. It is apparent that Hosseini has a talent for writing and demonstrates great potential for the future. This novel sheds much needed light on life inside Afghanistan - beyond what is covered on the nightly news. Highly recommended.	2004-03-15
US	51343369	RQYDUWC324UB4	0060505273	18957388	The Sewing Circles of Herat: A Personal Voyage Through Afghanistan	Books	5	9	10	N	N	&quot;Mullahs on Motorbikes&quot;	Reading THE SEWING CIRCLES OF HERAT is like embarking on a personal tour through Afghanistan's history, culture, and geography. Christina Lamb brings this complex and misunderstood country to vivid life. Most books in this genre attempt to tell the story from the outside-looking-in perspective but Lamb's extensive knowledge of Afghani history, people, and conflict results in a virtual first-hand account of this troubled nation.<br />Lamb first became acquainted with Afghanistan while covering the war between the mujaheddin and the Soviets for two years as a foreign correspondent. During this time she made many friendships and allies with the mullahs and possessed a deep appreciation and sympathy for Afghanistan that continued even after she returned home to London. Twelve years later Lamb returned to Afghanistan once again as a foreign correspondent after the media obsession with September 11th and the hunt for Osama bin Laden. It became apparent quite early that Afghanistan has suffered dearly as a result of the rise and fall of the Taliban. As Lamb travels throughout the country she blends her extensive knowledge of Afghani history and culture with her current observations. Most interestingly she was able to interview a former Taliban torturer, tour a madrassa (religious school) that is credited for educating such figures as Mullah Omar, and speak with her long-term friend Hamid Karzai who is now the appointed leader of Afghanistan. <br />Lamb's observations into the people and conflicts of Afghanistan are insightful and very interesting. After reading this I now have a renewed since of this country and am more understanding of current events. I especially appreciated all the photos that were included throughout the text. With the exception of frequent run-on sentences Lamb's prose is remarkable and very clear. She has the ability to make her subject matter come alive and I was continually interested throughout.<br />Highly recommended.	2004-03-12
US	51343369	R1AGON5FPDVJPF	0060185104	584598882	America's Women: Four Hundred Years of Dolls, Drudges, Helpmates, and Heroines	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Tasty tidbits of feminine history	Packed within the +550 pages of AMERICA'S WOMEN: FOUR HUNDRED YEARS OF DOLLS, DRUDGES, HELPMATES, AND HERIONES are countless antidotes of the various contributions women have made throughout the history of the United States spanning from the first European women to arrive in the 16th century to the 1960's. What makes this book especially strong is that it is not focused exclusively on well-known historical figures and times; rather, the 'Average Jane' is highlighted. There is often little known about these Jane's, but Collins does a good job in weaving their personal histories into her work. Another satisfying point is that Collins didn't resort to male bashing or pointing the finger at men that is so easily done in other books of this genre. My favorite sections focused on women's achievements made during the Colonial, Civil War, and Wild West eras. I was impressed with the vivid details of how the roles of women have changed and what they women had to endure. I am now greatly appreciative of their living conditions and struggles on a daily basis. Collins does a good job in highlighting the dichotomy between the role of women defined by society and the need for women to step forward and take over traditionally defined male roles in order for their families to survive. It was during these three eras that traditional feminine roles were bypassed and women accomplished incredible tasks on their own. There are many biographical and historical books on that market that focus on the achievement of men in the building of the nation, for this reason it is refreshing to read how women also did their fair share in shaping the country. It gave me inspiration, and will also certainly affect others. Recommended.	2004-03-09
US	51343369	R37VX6HBZWNK3I	1400034256	952134456	Iceland's Bell	Books	4	40	43	N	N	&quot;Copenhagen, the city the Danes got from the Icelanders&quot;	In true fashion to the skill of Halldor Laxness, ICELAND'S BELL paints a grim and desolate portrait of Iceland at the end of the 17th century. Iceland is a Danish colony and suffers from famine and a small pox epidemic that leaves this small island nation barely standing. What's more, Denmark has continuously benefited financially from a trade monopoly that prohibits Icelanders from trading with any other nations, especially the Dutch. Iceland's situation is not the only story of turmoil in Scandinavia; Denmark and Sweden are constantly at war. In the midst of all these socio-political issues three principle characters struggle with their individual livelihoods in ICELAND'S BELLS. Jon Hreggvidsson is a petty theft who is sentenced to be beheaded for ridiculing the Danish King in public. Laxness's portrayal of the plight of Jon Hreggvidsson is colorful and full of wit and dark humor. He is certainly a character that is difficult to hate even though he commits violent acts and has no regard for his family back home. Another principle character is Snaefridur who is often regarded as the most beautiful woman in Iceland. She is married to a drunk who manages to get himself in many funny situations such as selling his wife for a drink of liquor. The lives of Hreggvidsson and Snaefridur intertwine several times throughout the course of the novel in truly unique manners. The third principle character is Arnas Arnaeus who is determined to save and preserve all the old manuscripts of Icelandic history and literature but despite his good intentions Arenaeus's life is never as noble as he had wished. He is determined to be an advocate to the Icelandic people, but in the end he is an unlikely hero for Iceland.<BR> <BR>With the constant references to Icelandic sagas throughout the novel one wonders if Laxness intended to write a saga of his own. He frequently used Latin phrases, and I was thankful that there was an index in the back which described in detail the meanings. One ofthis novel's biggest strengths besides the bold and authentic characterizations is that many of the characters and events were based on history. It is apparent that Laxness is well acquainted with the history and culture of Iceland. If you enjoyed INDEPENDENT PEOPLE, then read ICELAND'S BELL. Laxness created a dark portrait of Iceland that is bound to make the reader feel sorry for the inhabitants of this poor nation. Certainly they received the short end of the stick. Life in Iceland was difficult at the end of the 17th century, and Laxness succeeds in telling a saga that is both dark and comedic. Warning - don't read the introduction first as many essential plot developments are revealed. Recommended.	2004-03-04
US	51343369	R13NKWZLFAS4XZ	0156005204	968911095	Baltasar and Blimunda	Books	4	8	8	N	N	&quot;I have flown, Father. My son, I believe you.&quot;	BALTASAR AND BLIMUNDA is a wonderful, richly detailed account of life in early 18th century Portugal. It is a time when Portugal fought the ruthless French, maintained an important colony in Brazil, and was constantly under the threat of the Holy Inquisition. The King of Portugal, Dom Joao V, desperately wants an heir to the throne. One night he promises a Franciscan friar that if he can foretell a succession to the throne then he would build a convent in Mafra. After the Queen gives birth Dom Joao V fulfills his promise by building a convent that is destined to be the greatest in Portugal. Meanwhile, after losing his hand on the battlefield Baltasar travels to Lisbon where he eventually meets Blimunda while watching public executions of condemned individuals. An eccentric Padre Bartolomeu Lourenco recruits Baltasar and Blimunda to work in secret creating Passarola, a flying machine that resembles a giant bird. Centuries before the modern airplane is created, the act of flying is often beyond the comprehension of individuals and could be seen as a holy sign. The sections of this book detailing the plight of Passarola are most entertaining and fun. This creates a good balance with the harsh details of the building of the convent. Saramago succeeds in writing entire passages revealing how much work and sweat were involved in such acts as dragging a giant slab of marble a considerable distance. One might think these passages are dull and tedious, but I believe Saramago highlights these arduous aspects of life that are often ignored by other authors who create works of historical fiction. Throughout the years Saramago has solidified his reputation for being a wonderful storyteller who create novels that are both shocking and revealing of the human condition, and BASTASAR AND BLIMUNDA is no exception. Highly recommended.	2004-02-24
US	51343369	R1B3E0GEOJ6UI0	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	&quot;Think of your life as a sick joke.&quot;	In the nearly decade since the publication of FIGHT CLUB Chuck Palahniuk has carved a name for himself in the literary world. Each of his novels are jammed-packed with media and social criticisms that often involve realistic characters in unusual circumstances. SURVIVOR, Palahniuk's second novel, includes his signature style of taking the reader on a trip that is difficult to forget. This jolting journey of the mind is what one expects when they pick up a Palahniuk book, and SURVIVOR does not fail in this aspect. The format of this book is constructed in a fashion of a big countdown: pages and chapters are numbered in reverse. The moment the ball drops is when a jumbo jet is going to crash into the Australian Outback with Tender Branson as the sole passenger. Tender has led an unconventional life. He is a surviving member of the Creedish doomsday cult. His comrades participated in a mass suicide to avoid government intervention. As the novel progresses he is recruited by a savvy agent and transformed into a major media icon that performs miracles by foretelling the future, with courtesy to his friend and co-inspirer Fertility Hollis. But the future isn't all Hollywood for Tender as there are dark secrets concerning activities by the Creedish elders during his youth that are determined to confront and destroy his assumed innocent childhood. Deep in social satire SURVIVOR is a fun and entertaining read which kept me interested until the last page. Recommended.	2004-02-18
US	51343369	R3NR5CO1VDNU7O	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	5	10	10	N	N	&quot;I was connected with everyone whose name was danger&quot;	Throughout her young life Hannah Green has been forced to hide her true identity for fear of her life. Fleeing Spain in 1553 during the Inquisition after her mother is burned at the stake for being a Jew she must pose as a boy while traveling with her father to safety. Settling down in Protestant England the Greens are relieved to have escaped danger in Spain, but they must continue to hide their religion and their love of books. Political instability and religious warfare plague England and Europe as a whole and threats of heresy and treason deem that nobody is safe, least of all the Greens. After becoming a member of the royal court as a fool, or a constant companion to the king or queen, Hannah continues to wear pants and pass as a fellow Christian. Her time in the royal court is filled with deception, intrigue, and worry, as she becomes a loyal friend and servant to both Catholic Queen Mary and her younger sister, Protestant Princess Elizabeth. Hannah straddles the line between royal foes while risking her own life as a spy and heretic. As time progresses she becomes a static member of the royal court and finds it difficult to return to her ailing father and the life of a commoner.<br />THE QUEEN'S FOOL is a compelling, fast-paced novel that draws the reader in from the first chapter and doesn't let go until the last page. I was fully intrigued with the tale of Hannah Green and the life that she had lived and I had a difficult time putting it down. It is obvious that Philippa Gregory has spent much time and effort researching for this book, which enabled her to create such a convincing tale. THE QUEEN'S FOOL succeeds in giving one a glimpse into the life of the royal court during the 16th century and adds a human face to this distant time. Highly recommended.	2004-02-12
US	51343369	R1BA8N2FOQUFHF	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	In search of the Garden of Eden	ENGLISH PASSENGERS is an enjoyable and fun work of historical fiction. The character's journeys and adventures come alive and the reader is instantaneously transported back in time. There are two separate plotlines for the first two-third of this book that eventually become joined at the end. First, there is the story of Captain Kewley and his crew from the Isle of Manx who are smugglers of tobacco and liquor. In order to get themselves out of the hands of the British customs Kewley accepts an offer to carter his ship for three Englishmen on a voyage that was destined to change the foundations of religion and science forever. Reverend Wilson, the leader of the expedition, is certain that the Garden of Eden is located on the yet explored island of Tasmania off the coast of mainland Australia. He is destined to prove wrong the atheist scientists back in England. The members of the expedition are unaware of Captain Kewley's special hidden cargo and they don't get along much with the crew or with each other. What follows is a delightful account of their voyage to Tasmania. The second subplot deals with the plight of the aboriginal people of Tasmania as the British colonized the island. The lead protagonist is Peevay, a half-caste member of a tribe who is determined to fight back against the white man who has destroyed much of their livelihood. He is determined to win the approval of his mother while she sets out to kill the white man who kidnapped and raped her. The first subplot is light and funny while the second is much more sorrowful and sad. While reading I found that these two combined elements created a necessary balanced tone of this book. There is no doubt that this book would be entirely different if Matthew Kneale only focused on the voyage of the Sincerity or the destruction of colonization. For this reason Kneale succeeded in creating a finely balanced narrative of a time and place that no longer exists.<br />I admit that ENGLISH PASSENGERS is not a perfectbook. There are several elements that could have been improved. For example, some of the characters were stereotypes of the times such as Dr. Potter and his theory of the hierarchy of men. There is no doubt that this type of thinking was prevalent during the 19th century (and even today to a lesser degree), but his characterization includes no other features or elements. He was simply portrayed as a man with a crude agenda. Second, there was no reasoning provided for the manner in which Potter's narratives were written. It got boring real fast with all the symbols (+, =, v, etc.) that Kneale included. One more aspect that irked me was the constant use of the phrase &quot;hither and tither&quot; by Peevay. Notwithstanding this isn't a perfect book but I have to admit that it was a highly entertaining one. Putting the faults aside I enjoyed reading this book and wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to others. Kneale provided a convincing yet grim account that hooked me from the first chapter. Enjoy!	2004-01-30
US	51343369	R3MN8DKJR1HKU8	014200331X	730101042	The Story of Lucy Gault: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	&quot;Love is beyond all reason when it is starved&quot;	In an attempt to ward off intruders from his estate Captain Gault fired a warning shot in the dark that would forever change his life and those around him. As Protestants the Gaults felt their well-being was continually threatened as Partition undermined the political and social foundations of Ireland in 1921. As a result Captain Gault decided to return to the safety of England with his wife and young daughter, Lucy. But Lucy isn't happy at all with the prospect of leaving the only home she has known and she is too young to fully comprehend the reasons. On the day of their anticipated departure Lucy is believed to have drowned when some of her clothing articles was discovered near the shore. It is widely acknowledged that the sea has a tendency to swallow both unaware ships and swimmers. In the midst of their grieving and loss Captain Gault and his wife continue their plans of emigrating, but as they begin their journey they decide that England is not far enough away from the source of their pain. Without communicating with a single person from their previous life they venture on to Switzerland and Italy. Meanwhile back in Ireland it is realized that Lucy has not drowned and is indeed alive but unfortunately there is no way to pass on the news to her parents because no one knows how to reach them. Decades pass while the separation between Lucy and her parents created deep psychological consequences that continue to affect their livelihood.<BR> <BR>THE STORY OF LUCY GAULT is a somber and dark tale of individuals searching for redemption and forgiveness for the innocent acts they have committed in their past. William Trevor created a poignant mix of characters that are forever marked with the choices that they have made. This book is admittedly small, but it contains a shocking and realistic story of how one girl's mischief has resulted in such devastating results for all. Individuals living in the surrounding villages all were accustomed with the tale of Lucy Gault,and her life was forever introduced to newcomers. It is a tale that is sure to live for generations in that section of Ireland. While reading this slim book I was sincerely touched by Trevor's portrayal of the longing for forgiveness and the haunting of regret. He excelled in getting inside the minds of his characters and shedding light on the emotional conflicts within their individual consciousness. Recommended.	2004-01-20
US	51343369	R2EJYLHMYV7JQB	0375758070	903070373	The Custom of the Country (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	&quot;If only everyone would do as she wished...&quot;	In CUSTOM OF THE COUNTRY Edith Wharton created a most unlikable protagonist that is certainly easy to deplore. Undine Spragg is the epitome of a spoiled individual who doesn't bother to care how her financial demands negatively affect those around her. After moving to New York with her parents she has the full intentions of entering the ranks of high society. She studies the society columns in the local newspapers and dreams of residing in a splendid home on Fifth Avenue. Undine is both charming and beautiful and she doesn't hesitate to rely on various schemes and methods to get what she wants.<br />During the course of this book the reader follows Undine as she strives to enter the fashionable social circles of New York at the beginning of the 20th century. She studies the prominent players in the upper classes and desires to join them during their dinner parties in New York and their annual spring trips to Paris. Unfortunately her father doesn't possess the type of financial resources to accommodate Undine's wishes so she seeks to marry a man who can provide. Undine's climb to the top of New York society is not without incident. At times her ascendancy is marked by setbacks and controversies that aim to keep Undine away from the social limelight.<br />Edith Wharton provides insightful commentaries on how Undine Spragg is so self-centered and ignorant and the general superficiality of high society during this time period. Undine completely ignored the concerns of her husband(s) and her child as she strived to join the fashionably conscious social circles. The social and religious sentiments towards divorced woman are also explored during this era of general disapproval of broken marriages. CUSTOM OF THE COUNTRY provides a revealing glimpse into the workings of the upper society circles of New York before the Great War. Highly recommended.	2004-01-16
US	51343369	RAV5ENRH1III	0374126054	314590836	The Colour	Books	4	21	22	N	N	&quot;He saw it again, a minute patch of shining yellow dust&quot;	In THE COLOUR Rose Tremain creates a wonderful insightful portrait of individuals drawn into the lure of the New Zealand gold rush in the mid-19th century. Newlyweds Joseph and Harriet Blackstone immigrate to the south island of New Zealand with Joseph's mother Lillian in order to begin a new life on a farm in the untamed countryside. As the Blackstone family settles down to their new life it soon becomes apparent that Joseph and Harriet's marriage is not based on any deep sense of love or devotion. In fact, they are becoming increasingly emotionally distant from each other each day. In addition each is fleeing from a disturbed past in Norfolk, England. After their first year in their new homestead their lives are forever changed when one day Joseph spots a glimpse of the colour, a New Zealand euphemism for the glimmer of gold, in their creek. Keeping is discovery a secret from his wife and mother Joseph soon abandons his dreams of farming and joins the thrust of the gold rush occurring throughout the country in his dreams of striking rich and securing a better life. After he leaves his farm and heads to the west coast Harriet is not far behind with her own agenda.<br />This book is filled with wonderful images of the hard painstaking life of establishing a farm in the midst of the untamed New Zealand countryside. I felt sympathy for their ever-increasing struggles to remain on their farm. The descriptions of the harsh winters made me appreciate my warm apartment. One of the most interesting parts of this book dealt specifically with the gold rush. I was entranced by the descriptions of men buying mining licenses and claiming a spot of land in order to pan for gold while living in squalor - all the while clinging to the dream of striking rich and cashing in their fortunes. Also intriguing was the varied individuals who developed a business to accommodate the miners such as selling food, lodging, and sometimes their bodies. But despite my enjoyment of this section ofthis book, I was dismayed by the inclusion of the Maori woman and her connection with the little boy Edwin. Tremain appeared to feel a need to include a Maori storyline but it felt too forced for my own tastes. Furthermore, I felt the story of Pare didn't coincide well with the other storylines and her relationship with Edwin was eerie and unsettling. Regardless, THE COLOUR is a book that quickly grabs your attention and had me guessing the ending until the last couple of pages. I will definitely now read more books from Rose Tremain.	2004-01-09
US	51343369	R2JJVJ5FMMT1RZ	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ten delectable short stories.	I am a fan of short stories, and Jhumpa Lahiri is one of the best artists of this craft. Although these stories don't take long to read, they each succeed in lingering long after the book is finished. Each time I finished one story and declared that it was my favorite in the bunch, I would start the next and thus my previous rating system would become invalid. Each story focuses on an Indian individual(s) who are in the midst of forging a new identity outside of India. Some protagonists are first generation immigrants, while others were born in the United States. But regardless of their degree of personal connections to India, each balances the delicate line drawn between being an &quot;American&quot; and being an &quot;Indian&quot;. Some are more successful than others. <br />These stories are absent of the quinnessential happy ending. As a result some readers might feel this collection is too dark or gloomy. Nonetheless, I believe this aspect leads further credence to each story as happy endings are never guaranteed in real life. It is difficult to pick out a favorite about these ten short stories but here are the ones that resonated with me the most,<br />WHEN MR. PIRZADA CAME TO DINE - About a young Indian girl who becomes interested in the sad life of her parents nightly guest.<br />THIS BLESSED HOUSE - A newlywed Indian couple moves into a new house and continuously finds Christian &quot;gifts&quot; left behind by the previous owners in the strangest places.<br />INTERPRETER OF MALADIES - A tour driver finds that there are grave differences between first impressions and reality while he escorts a young Indian-American family to an important tourist destination in India.<br />I thank Jhumpa Lahiri for writing such elegant yet thought-provoking stories in this book.	2004-01-05
US	51343369	R1NYV1O5O3QXHL	1884365302	537609961	The Jungle: The Uncensored Original Edition	Books	4	171	189	N	N	&quot;But I'm glad I'm not a pig!&quot;	Originally published in 1906 by Upton Sinclair, THE JUNGLE sent shockwaves throughout the United States that resulted in cries for labor and agricultural reforms. It is indeed rare that a book should have such a political impact, but although Sinclair may have been surprised at the results, it is apparent while reading this novel that his words form a political agenda of its own. It should be noted that Sinclair was a devout Socialist who traveled to Chicago to document the working conditions of the world-famous stockyards. Sinclair originally published this book in serial form in the Socialist newspaper, The Appeal to Reason. But as a result of the popularity of this series Sinclair decided to try to publish in a form of a novel.<br />Sinclair widely utilized the metaphor of the jungle (survival of the fittest, etc.) throughout this book to reflect how the vulnerable worker is at the mercy of the powerful packers and politicians. Mother Nature is represented as a machine who destroys the weak and protects the elite powerful. To illustrate his sentiments Sinclair wrote of family of Jurgis and Ona who immigrated to Chicago from Lithuania in search of the American dream. They arrive in all innocence and believe that hard work would result in a stable income and security. But they soon realize that all the forces are against them. During the subsequent years Jurgis tries to hold on what he has but he is fighting a losing battle. It is not until he stumbles upon a political meeting that his eyes upon the evils of capitalism and the sacredness of socialism.<br />If one is to read THE JUNGLE, then they should do themselves a favor and seek out this version. It is the original, uncensored version that Sinclair originally intended to publish. It contains much more details of the horrifying conditions of the meatpacking industry that Jurgis and his family were subjected to. I originally read the standard version of this book many years ago, but I didn't hestitate to invest in this edition as I wanted to read what Sinclair had originally intended.<br />THE JUNGLE is an important book on the labor history of the United States, the non-fairytale immigration of foreigners into the melting pot, and the history of Chicago. Recommended, but not for the faint of heart.n this edition as I wanted to read what Sinclair had originally intended.<br />THE JUNGLE is an important book on the labor history of the United States, the non-fairytale immigration of foreigners into the melting pot, and the history of Chicago. Recommended, but not for the faint of heart.	2004-01-02
US	51343369	R215X14GA06086	0764304607	154357517	World's Fair Collectibles: Chicago, 1933 and New York, 1939 (A Schiffer Book for Collectors)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great for 1933 and 1939 World's Fair Collectors	I am an avid collector of 1933-34 Chicago World's Fair memorabilia so naturally I was anxious to get my hands on a copy of this guide. Howard Rosen filled this collector's guide with an abundant amount of colorful photographs of items ranging from vases, bookmarks, china, tapestry, and posters from both the 1933 and 1939 World's Fairs. Also included is a brief explanation of why these two World's Fairs were so important for the psyche of the country during the Depression era.<br />Notwithstanding, I have two points that I would like to clarify about this guide. First, it is not an exhaustive display of all memorabilia available from these two World's Fairs. Rather it is simply a display of one individual's collection. Therefore there are many items in my own personal collection that were not included in this guide. Second, as with other collector's guide the prices provided by Howard Rosen should be only taken with a grain of salt. With the advent of the internet and such sites as eBay one can purchase the same displayed items in this guide for much cheaper. Shop around as there are still deals waiting to be grabbed.<br />Despite these two setbacks I have enjoyed browsing through this guide. It provides a great idea of what items are available for collecting that I have not seen before.	2003-12-29
US	51343369	RNYTUCKGNTYPM	0375411305	482522807	Shroud	Books	3	4	8	N	N	&quot;All my life I have lied.&quot;	Axel Vander admits in the opening pages of SHROUD that he is a liar, that he has lied his entire life. Looking back on his career as a professor and his youth in war-torn Europe it is clear (or is it?) that one lie has led to another. He has even lied to the extent that he begins to believe his own lies. As a result, the reader doesn't know whether to believe anything he says. Is his narration reality or simply a product of his egotistical imagination? You be the judge.<br />SHROUD begins with the elder Axel after receiving a letter from a woman in Antwerp, Belgium who claims to know his secrets. Axel is uptight and restless as the prospect of the truth being uncovered makes him very unsettled. He immediately books a flight from California to Turin, Italy to meet this mysterious woman. What follows is an ambiguous journey of these two individuals as they delve into the past and reveal their own convictions. <br />The prose of John Banville is a marvel and is admirable. It is easy to become hooked after only reading several pages. However, after the first half of the book my interest waned as the narration became more strange and mystifying. I quickly lost interest in the plight of Axel Vander. He certainly is an unlikable character and the mysterious woman was clearly suffering from some form of mental disease. The story of these two individuals didn't do anything for me. In short, SHROUD started out fantastic but soon fizzled into obscurity. 3/5 stars.	2003-12-24
US	51343369	R28JPDLE6H317P	0374209057	446241218	Double Vision: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	&quot;We live our whole lives one step from clarity&quot;	In alignment with her previous novels, Pat Barker explores how people have been fractured by violence in her latest novel, DOUBLE VISION. In the post-9/11 world Barker finds more manifestations of violence to write about. Each character in DOUBLE VISION has experienced some traumatic event that has resulted in a double vision of sorts. One eye is turned back to the past and the other is looking forward from the moment that violence shattered their life. They will never be the same.<br />In the north of England in the countryside near Newcastle Stephen Sharkey moves from London to the North after resigning from his post of a war correspondent. He settles down in his brother's empty cottage to write about his experiences in various war-torn locations. But although he has removed himself from the danger, he continues to be plagued by nightmares and flashbacks of his horrific war experiences. Meanwhile Beth, the wife of his deceased colleague who was shot by a sniper in Afghanistan, struggles to recover from an automobile accident. She lives only miles from Stephen's cottage, but she endures her own double vision of how violence ruptured her life and cut short the life of her husband. <br />In addition to the two main characters there are others who suffer from their own double vision. There is Justine who interrupts a home robbery and is beaten up and Peter who has suffered some secretive misdeeds that landed him in prison at a young age. Not only have the characters suffered from violence but also the landscape. Barker included numerous references to violence of the Foot and Mouth epidemic that has resulted in pyres to extinguish the affected livestock and the resulting decline in tourist trade and local economic commerce.<br />Barker performs a good exploration of how contemporary violence affects individuals and the land but I feel that she could have reached deeper into the individual darkness of each of her characters. This is a slim book at roughly 250 pages therefore there is adequate space to expand without dire consequences. There are also some characters that were not fully developed such as 10-year-old Adam. Otherwise DOUBLE VISION is a satisfying read. 3.5 stars.	2003-12-19
US	51343369	RAJV9U5F3EE0M	0375414983	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	4	3	6	N	N	"And there he lay, the thing that I brought to life"	MY LIFE AS A FAKE is Peter Carey's latest literary spin through history which is based loosely on the 1940's hoax of forged and plagiarized poetry in Australia by James McAuley and Howard Stewart. The public and literary arena was deceived during that notorious incident, and presently Carey has developed a marvelous story that leaves the reader scratching its own head in bewilderment and confusion. <br />Set primarily in Australia, Malaysia, and Indonesia, this novel follows poetry editor Sarah Wode-Douglass as she travels to Kuala Lumpar with John Slater, an old family friend who she doesn't trust or particularly like. Upon arriving Sarah encounters Christopher Chubb, an exiled Australian who possesses a wildly fantastic past of his own in creating literary hoaxes, in a dark and grimy bicycle repair shop. Sarah's true journey begins when Slater first denies knowing Chubb, and then is persistent in warning Sarah from the dangers of associating herself with the crazed Australian without a satisfactory explanation. As her friendship with Chubb intensifies Sarah learns of Bob McCorkle, the invention of Chubb, and is lured by his spectacular poetry that may indeed rescue her career if she can bring it back to London and publish it in her magazine. But does McCorkle exist at all as insisted by Chubb?<br />As the story unfolds the reader is led through many plot twists and turns and frankly doesn't know which character to believe. Even Sarah has a couple lies up her sleeve. Each character shares in the storytelling of this amazing hoax and the digressions become riskier and less believable than the previous. MY LIFE AS A FAKE is a wonderful novel and a genuine page-tuner. My heart thumped in my chest as I raced to uncover the truth as I neared the end of the book. Carey succeeds in highlighting a less known historical event while simultaneously creating a memorable plot and interesting characters. Highly recommended.	2003-12-17
US	51343369	REJSJN9YDDKI9	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	6	10	N	N	&quot;My whole life is a deju vu&quot;	I have to admit that I didn't know what to expect before I picked up this book. In the spirit of science fiction I expected a time traveler who travels back in momentous periods in world history. But I was most happy to discover that I was wrong (I'm not a big fan of that genre). THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE is a highly engrossing and entertaining tale of Henry De Tamble. He is inflicted with chrono-displacement disorder. In other words, he has a tendency to travel to both the future and past of his own life and the lives of his loved ones. He doesn't have any control of when he disappears or where he travels to, and as a result he constantly finds himself in precarious and dangerous situations. During one such traveling excursion he meets his wife Clare as a young child. What follows is a lovely story of how these two individuals are connected beyond the limitations of time and space.<br />Another enduring aspect of this book is that it is primarily set in Chicago. From the very beginning it becomes apparent that the author possesses an intimate knowledge of the city. While other authors and filmmakers develop a stilted vision of Chicago, Audrey Niffenegger does a superb job in recreating both the geography and feel of the city. There were several passages when the book's characters traveled through my neighborhood and ate at restaurants that I have frequented. It's an eerie yet comforting sense.<br /><br />It is difficult to believe that this is Niffenegger's debut novel, and I hope it's not her last. I thoroughly enjoyed THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE and would highly recommend it to others who enjoy a quality page-turner.	2003-12-14
US	51343369	R12M7LPELCXLK9	1570613818	202119975	Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason	Books	5	13	14	N	N	For the delight of bibliophiles everywhere	I adore books about books, and BOOK LUST is the best one I've come across thus far. Filled to the rim with over 175 lists, it's guaranteed to satisfy any bibliophile's appetite. I've been carrying around this book since I purchased it and I still can't get over how much I enjoy it and how useful it will be for me.<br />Each list is so much more than a simple rundown of assorted books. Nancy Pearl's narrative provides a much-appreciated glimpse into the book genre that only an experienced reader/librarian with decades of experience under their belt can provide. Her writing is intelligent and witty. Browsing this book is like sitting down and discussing books with a good friend over coffee.<br />Included is an excellent selection of list including fiction and non-fiction books such as:<br />African Literature in English<BR>Art Appreciation<BR>Australian Fiction<BR>Brothers and Sisters<BR>Chick Lit<BR>Czech it Out<BR>Elvis on my Mind<BR>Families in Trouble<BR>Food for Thought<BR>Etc. etc.<br />BOOK LUST solves a question many readers ponder: what should I read next? Now I know that this question will not haunt me anymore. Get this book. It's worth every penny.	2003-12-08
US	51343369	R1QXLQ0MUV8BHE	0743229045	499014129	The Resurrectionists: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Confronting the past	In THE RESURRECTIONISTS Frank Cassidy returns to his childhood town in Michigan's Upper Peninsula with his family after he learns of the untimely death of his estranged uncle. At first his intentions rested in claiming a segment of his inheritance, but soon enough he realizes that he has returned because he cannot run from the events of his past any longer. After creating a new life in the U.P., Frank slowly delves into the mysteries surrounding the death of his parents in a house fire and the subsequent psychological testing he endured afterwards. He uncovers answers that astound him and make him question his own innocence. <br />Set during the late 1970's, THE RESURRECTIONISTS is filled to the rim with pop culture and political references throughout the book, almost to the point of being distracting.<br />This is a clever murder mystery that successfully transforms the reader to the harsh and snow-filled winter of the Upper Peninsula, and the anatomy of a small Midwestern town and all its secrets.	2003-12-08
US	51343369	R1J0M3OMIA5B3L	0393315819	604983605	Ecstasy	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Three novellas - one drug	I am a big fan of Irvine Welsh so I was anxious to get my hands on ECSTASY: THREE TALES OF CHEMICAL ROMANCE. Sadly, I was left disappointed. The premise of each novella as described on the back of the book is excellent, but Welsh's execution was very poor. For example, in the first story, \\"Lorraine Goes to Livingston\\", Welsh was not consistent in his use of Scottish dialect for the main character which was more than distracting. Also, the idea of a mortuary worker having free sex with the corpses in full knowledge of everyone in the hospital is a little too far fetched, even for Irvine Welsh. I will not bother to continue with the shortcomings of the other two stories.<br />Although I was disappointed in ECSTASY, I will not give up on Welsh as I still believe he has an amazing talent.	2003-12-06
US	51343369	RRAOH3YMHF8CR	037570342X	564250926	Family Matters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	&quot;Family comes first&quot;	Set in the politically-corrupt Bombay, India during the 1990's FAMILY MATTERS centers on familial love and obligation of a multigenerational Parsi family. After 79-year-old Nariman Vakeel, suffering from Parkinson's Disease, falls and breaks his ankle his grown children are left to care for him, often reluctantly. His step children Coomy and Jal find the job too much to handle so they transfer the responsibilities to their youngest sister, Roxanne and her family. During the months of Nariman's recovery his family is challenged both physically and financially as they come to terms with the deterioration of their father. Meanwhile, Nariman relives his prohibited love affair with Lucy which has left his family altered forever. <br />Similar to his previous novels, Mistry creates three-dimensional characters in unforgettable situations. However, his depth of plot revealed in A FINE BALANCE is absent in FAMILY MATTERS.<br />Regardless, I found the theme of siblings caring for elders displayed in this book relevant across national boundaries. FAMILY MATTERS is an honest portrayal of how one family is affected by the illness of an elder and how much each party is affected.	2003-12-05
US	51343369	R1EASMOW1RFIG9	0066212383	815132259	Four Spirits	Books	5	7	8	N	N	&quot;Birmingham will never be the same&quot;	Set in Birmingham, Alabama during the early 1960's FOUR SPIRITS is an engrossing novel of how the Civil Rights movement not only affected individuals residing in the city but also the city itself. Birmingham was one of the hotbeds of demonstrations, bombings, and protests during this era, and the lives of those living within the city were greatly affected. This novel focuses on individuals who are deeply affected by the events occurring around them. Written from the perspective of a variety of characters, this novel provides the reader with a multitude of glimpses of the violence embedded in their daily activities. Each character is brought to life, and the story is three-dimensional and highly textured. Embedded in the plot are notorious incidents (i.e., the death of the four young girls in the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church) and grand figures (i.e., Martin Luther King, Jr.) but the novel remains authentic and real. FOUR SPIRITS is a well-written account of recent American history, and is worthy of all the praise it has received thus far. In spite of the clich, this novel was certainly difficult to put down and I finished it in record time. Enjoy.	2003-11-26
US	51343369	R1ATN7PWU128KU	0670869295	274380325	The Regeneration Trilogy: Regeneration; The Eye in the Door; The Ghost Road	Books	4	30	30	N	N	The Great War	Throughout THE REGENERATION TRILOGY Barker does a phenomenal job of detailing the psychological consequences of trench warfare during the Great War. Set in London, Scotland, and France, the three volumes focus on the principle characters of Prior, Sassoon, Owens, and the renowned Dr. Rivers. Both their personal relationships with each other and with the First World War are examined. The reader is provided a glimpse into the terrible conditions of trench fighting, and how the medical establishment viewed shell-shock as a medical diagnosis and how it was treated. Through the poetry of Owen, Sassoon, etc, the world can begin to understand the personal horrors they have witnessed of a war that many soldiers did not understand. Based loosely on historical events and characters, Barker has created a perspective of modern warfare that does not contain the quintessential happy ending.<br />I believe each volume of the Regeneration Trilogy should be read in chronological order (REGENERATION, THE EYE IN THE DOOR, AND THE GHOST ROAD) to fully appreciate the merits of each volume. Although the plot is re-summarized at the beginning of each book, the main characters are continually being developed throughout. I just finished reading GHOST ROAD, and I have to admit that it's not my favorite of the three. I don't understand how this volume was awarded the Booker Prize when I believe REGENERATION is the strongest of the bunch. I also enjoyed THE EYE IN THE DOOR because of the exploration of societal issues during The First War, especially scape-goating of homosexuals and pacifists.  <br />Overall, this trilogy is a wonderful glimpse into the atmosphere of Britain during the First World War.	2003-11-25
US	51343369	R3UB3VB6USWUZB	0525941916	129425029	The Ghost Road	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The final chapter of Regeneration Trilogy	THE GHOST ROAD is the final volume of Pat Barker's Regeneration trilogy, and the winner of the 1995 Booker Prize. Throughout the trilogy Barker performs a phenomenal job of detailing the psychological consequences of trench warfare during the Great War. Set in London and France, THE GHOST ROAD focuses on the principle characters of Billy Prior and the renowned Dr. Rivers and their personal relationships with each other and the First World War. The reader is provided a glimpse into the terrible conditions of trench fighting, and how the medical establishment viewed shell-shock as a medical diagnosis and how it was treated. Through the poetry of Owen, Sassoon, etc, the world can begin to understand the personal horrors they have witnessed of a war that many did not understand. Based loosely on historical events and characters, Barker has created a perspective of modern warfare that does not contain the quintessential happy ending.<br />I believe each volume of the Regeneration Trilogy should be read in chronological order (REGENERATION, THE EYE IN THE DOOR, AND THE GHOST ROAD) to fully appreciate the merits of each volume. Although the plot is re-summarized at the beginning of each book, the main characters are continually being developed throughout. I just finished reading GHOST ROAD, and I have to admit that it's not my favorite of the three. I don't understand how this volume was awarded the Booker Prize when I believe REGENERATION is the strongest of the bunch. I also enjoyed THE EYE IN THE DOOR because of the exploration of societal issues during The First War, especially scape-goating of homosexuals and pacifists.  <br />Overall, this trilogy is a wonderful glimpse into the atmosphere of Britain during the First World War.	2003-11-25
US	51343369	R3HVKAFLM9I06	0452272726	296956896	The Eye in the Door	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;People don't want reasons, they want scapegoats&quot;	THE EYE IN THE DOOR is the second installment in Pat Barker's marvelous Regeneration trilogy. In this volume the principle characters of Dr. Rivers and Prior have left Criaglockhart War Hospital and are now living in London. Although Dr. Rivers has taken a new position treating shell-shock soldiers who have returned from the front in France, he continues to keep in touch and treat his former patients from Criaglockhart, especially Prior. Amidst the bombing and blackouts of wartime London, Prior continues to suffer from war neurosis as he embarks on solving a mystery that involves his childhood friends and acquaintances. He is confronted by England's societal fixation with fear and scapegoating of those who are believed to deter from the war effort (mainly war deserters and homosexuals).  Individuals are often forced to hide their true attributes from society during this time of societal finger pointing and blaming. As in the previous volume of this trilogy, the characters of Prior and Dr. Rivers are well developed and nuanced. I continually enjoy reading about their trials and tribulations, and look forward to reading the third and final volume in this trilogy.	2003-11-19
US	51343369	R5TYGYZNW8OY8	0452270073	779881568	Regeneration	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The horrors of war	In the first book of Pat Barker's Regeneration Trilogy, the reader is introduced into the psychological consequences of trench fighting during World War. Officers suffering from variations of the controversial shell shock syndrome were commissioned by the British Army to be treated at Craiglockhart, a military hospital outside Edinburgh, with the intention of healing them and sending them back to the front in France. REGENERATION follows a group of officers treated at Craiglockhart as they deal with the horrific events they have witnessed. There is no doubt that what these soldiers experience can disturb even the most strong-minded individual today. The principle psychiatrist is Dr. Rivers, who suffered from his own personal demons and war symptoms. He created strong friendships with many of his patients and cared dearly for their well being. Rivers is a complex, nuanced character. While he portrays an exterior of believing in the War, he holds an internal debate of the War's philosophical warrants. <br />It was a pure enjoyment to read about WW1, an often forgotten war in the literary world in my own opinion. I was previously unaware to the full extent of the shock and revulsion of trench fighting that the soldiers had to endure. It seems virtually impossible to leave that situation psychologically untouched. REGENERATION contains many horrific scenes that remain with the reader long after the book is put down. Another intriguing aspect of this book concerns the fact that it is a mixture of fact and fiction. Characters such as Siegfried Sassoon and Dr. Rivers existed in real life, although Barker did perform some literary liberties in writing this book. REGENERATION is a book that was difficult to put down. The unique plot grabbed me and held my attention. Although there were many scenes of graphic violence I felt it was an integral part of the plot. It enabled the reader to get a glimpse of what these soldiers endured in the trenches. A well done accomplishment.	2003-11-13
US	51343369	R38BIEX8JDIONS	0393322157	805709963	Glue	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;The worst has already happened, the rest is just details&quot;	GLUE is a hard-hitting, frank, and often violent recount of the friendship between four boys growing up in Edinburgh's economically depressed scheme. The reader is taken on a wild ride as Juice Terry Lawson, Carl Ewart, Billy Birrell, and Andrew Galloway engage in such youthful acts as football hooliganism, street fighting, excessive drinking and drugging, shagging (getting your hole), and incessant encounters with the police. Meanwhile, their life at home is often less than satisfactory as they have to deal with divorce, joblessness, and emotional neglect. Relations between the four friends transform as decades pass and circumstances change, but they are never able to let go of the past. Each character must confront their past if their friendship is to survive into the new millennium.<br />Irvine Welsh performs an admirable task of developing characters that are both believable and three-dimensional. Each character comes alive on the page. Additionally, the bonds of friendship between the four characters are not portrayed in a simplistic feel-good manner. Although they might have been friends since childhood, they do have their grievances and anger with each other. Relations aren't always perfect between them resulting in this novel's greatest strength. <br />GLUE is written in Welsh's signature style of working-class Scottish dialogue, which makes the experience of reading this novel very rich and animated. If you are familiar with TRAINSPOTTING than GLUE will be familiar in its form and context. There are even cameo references to the characters and plot of TRAINSPOTTING in this book. My only complaint with GLUE refers to the torture killing of the guard dogs occurring in the first part of this book. I was repulsed by the gruesome details and I strongly wonder about the merit of including this scene at all. This must be an attempt by Irvine Welsh to push the literary boundaries. Regardless, GLUE is a novel written from the imagination of Irvine Welsh and thereforeis sure to entertain those readers wanting a unique reading experience.	2003-11-10
US	51343369	RZBL7VY5L33OK	0618246967	786060827	The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2003 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Another great volume in this series	I eagerly anticipated the publication this book, the second volume in THE BEST AMERICAN NONREQUIRED READING series, for months because I thoroughly enjoyed last year's edition so much. I absolutely loved the variety of entries including fiction, journalism, and animation. The writing was cutting-edge, full of wit, and provided an additional viewpoint of life in modern society. The 2003 edition is a good addition to this series and includes a collection of notable short stories that have succeeded in standing out from pack (David Drury's &quot;Things We Knew When The House Caught Fire&quot;, Jonathan Safran Foer's &quot;A Primer for the Punctuation of Heart Disease&quot;, and JT Leroy's &quot;Stuff&quot;.) Also included are a couple journalist pieces that deserve praise (Mark Bowden's &quot;Tales of the Tyrant&quot; and Sherman Alexie's &quot;What Sacagawea Means to Me&quot;.) Regardless of the title, this book is not only for younger audiences. Readers young and old will get enjoyment from this series. THE BEST AMERICAN NONREQUIRED READING series is one of my favorite short story compilations.	2003-10-29
US	51343369	R1SSFFKGMV203A	0375724400	388721998	When We Were Orphans: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A detective's biggest case.	In WHEN WE WERE ORPHANS Kazuo Ishiguro introduces the reader to 1930's England and the life of Christopher Banks, a celebrated British detective. While Christopher finds success rather easy there is one case that has remained baffling, the kidnapping of his parents in Shanghai, China. Alternating between his adult life in England and his childhood in Shanghai, Christopher travels back to China to settle the mystery that has been plaguing him for decades. What follows is a tale of false assumptions and important clues that leads him to the truth of his parent's disappearance. During the dawn of the Second World War Christopher is a witness of the fighting between the Japanese and Chinese while reuniting with his childhood friend, Akira.<br />I found the sections regarding Christopher's childhood in Shanghai to be the most captivating. I wanted to learn more about the International Settlement and those individuals living inside. Unfortunately, I found the remainder of this book to be slow and lacking conviction. Towards the end I lost sympathy for the characters and was rightfully disturbed by several obvious plot holes (not to be discussed here in fear of giving away the plot). While the premise of WHEN WE WERE ORPHANS is good, Ishiguro demonstrated poor execution that ultimately distracted from the quality of this novel. I really wanted to like this book but I felt let down.	2003-10-13
US	51343369	R1I2DS38GPHYAI	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	&quot;His whole life was a headache&quot;	Somewhere between the rocky foothills and deep canyons outside Los Angeles, California exist two separate worlds: one inhibited by American citizens and the other by illegal aliens from south of the border. T.C. Boyle's TORTILLA CURTAIN examines the colliding edges of these two very different worlds through the portrayal of four main characters. Delaney Mossbacher is a strong advocate of the preservation of the environment and species. He resides in a gated community on the top of a canyon away from the uncertainties of the city. Delaney lives with his wife, a power real-estate agent and her 6-year-old son from a previous marriage. Meanwhile down in the canyon below Candido and America Rincon are barely making ends meet while constantly dodging the police and INS. While Candido searches high and low every day for work that pays meager wages and no benefits, pregnant America remains in the canyon impatiently waiting for the comfortable apartment, new clothes, and ample food promised to her by Candido before they married and left their Mexican village. <br />Although both couples live in near proximity to each other they live completely different standards of living (hence the use of the title, The Tortilla Curtain.) Throughout the course of this novel there are several chance encounters between the two couples. During these chance encounters each person relies exclusively on stereotypical assumptions of the other. They are frequently reminded of the presence of the other, which only results in deepening anger and misunderstanding levels. As time progresses both Delaney and Mossbacher change their assessment of each other, but in a negative fashion. Delaney modifies his liberal assessments of Mexican immigrants when his own personal world and belief system is disturbed. Meanwhile, Candido feels more entitlement to his illegal presence and acts once he withstands multitude negative actions made against him by gringos. Both wish the other would simply disappear.<br />There is no doubt that there are enough sociopolitical issues abound in THE TORTILLA CURTAIN to make anyone feel uneasy with current political policies. Though I think Boyle succeeds in highlighting both sides of this dire issue, there are instances where I felt he went over the top to achieve his goal (i.e. Candido's constant failure). While I felt that the plot was a little contrived, Boyle's prose is certainly admirable. This book certainly stays with you long after it is put down.	2003-10-13
US	51343369	R3GG2BHA14WJIC	1400031311	239479552	The O. Henry Prize Stories 2003 (Pen / O. Henry Prize Stories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worth reading, better than last year	I have to admit that I was apprehensive to read THE O.HENRY PRIZE STORIES 2003 because I was disappointed with the quality of short stories in last year's volume. But looking back I am now very glad that I took the chance and purchased the 2003 volume. I'm not certain whether the drastic improvement can be attributed to the resignation of the former editor Larry Dark or simply a better publication year for short stories. Regardless, the 2003 volume of O.Henry stories is definitely worth reading. I took my time reading each story and was always pleasantly surprised when each story's quality did not falter. There are a wide variety of stories included. Some of my favorites include Adam Desnoyer's Bleed Blue in Indonesia, TC Boyle's Swept Away, Evan Connell's Election Eve, Tim Johnston's Irish Girl, and William Trevor's Sacred Statues. Some of the authors are well known (such as TC Boyle, AS Bryant, Alice Munro, etc.) while others are less. However, the variety of authors always proves to be a hidden gem in short story anthologies as it proves a great avenue in discovering new and more obscure writers. Any fan of the short story would enjoy reading this book.	2003-10-06
US	51343369	R2NDVQ3D5PH43O	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Oh, yes, the Devil has been here this night!&quot;	Set in the Derbyshire countryside in 1666, THE YEAR OF WONDERS details the accounts of a small village ravaged by the Plague. Told exclusively from the first-person account of Anna Firth, a young hardworking widow and mother of two young children, who is employed in the residence of Michael Mompellion, the rector, and his wife, Elinor. After the Plague was incidentally transported to the village inside a bolt of fabric the disease spreads fast and eventually kills one third of the population of the village. The village voluntarily quarantines themselves from any outside contact in a hope to contain the infection. During these desperate months Anna takes it upon herself to help ease the pain of others. In her efforts she forges a strong friendship with Elinor while learning and studying natural remedies and therapies. Helping others aids her in helping ease the pain of her own loss to the Plague.<br />THE YEAR OF WONDERS is not a typical work of historical fiction. According to the book's Afterword this story was inspired by the true story of the villagers of Eyam, Derbyshire and their own historical account of the Plague. While hiking through the English countryside Geraldine Brooks encountered a finger post pointing the way to the 'Plague Village'. Months of painful research concluded in the writing of this book, and a recreation of how a village struggled against a deadly disease while trying to maintain social order. While Brooks took some liberties in the development of the plot, but some aspects are rooted in truth including several true identities and names. The title of the book reflects worldly events and the strong belief that God works in mysterious ways.<br />I only wish that Brooks included more social and historical background to the events that were simply alluded to. This would strengthen the plot and make reading more beneficial. Otherwise, I felt left in the dark when events such as the war with the Dutch were briefly mentioned. A very brief summarywas included in the Afterword but it seemed too little too late. Otherwise, Brooks did a good job recreating the events occurring in Eyam during the Plague year of 1666.	2003-09-29
US	51343369	R1G5IY2KIRB2AC	0743203631	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story Of A Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	In the face of adversity	I picked up GAP CREEK on a whim not knowing much about the plot or the characters beforehand, and I was pleasantly surprised by the rich details of life portrayed on Gap Creek. Set in the Carolina Mountains at the turn of the 20th century, GAP CREEK explores the trials and tribulations of the young protagonist, Julie, striving for survival in the midst of poverty and hardship. After their marriage Julie and Hank move to Gap Creek where they possess a desire to live a good life together, but what awaits them is far from their hopes and dreams. They face hunger and uncertainty while battling the demons of Mother Nature. Julie also faces Hanks degrading attitude and temper after he loses his job and cannot find another. Just when things look bleak and you think it cannot get worse Julie finds out she is pregnant. Life on Gap Creek is rough and trying to say the least.<br />While reading GAP CREEK I really emphasized with Julie and constantly wished she would get a break from her troubles. She had lived such a hard life in her young age. Along with Julie, all the other characters are realistic and well developed, especially Mr. Pendercast who I would love to read more of his life. Morgan takes the reader back in history to a time before the invention of modern technology. The descriptions of hard labor are sorrowful and make me greater appreciate the comforts of the 21st century. However, despite this book's downtrodden plot and dire circumstances I wouldn't describe it as being a depressing read. Rather I feel enlightenment in the strength of Julie. Her continuing struggle for perseverance is certainly admirable and gave me inspiration.<br />I enjoyed reading GAP CREEK, and would recommend it to others.	2003-09-25
US	51343369	RV6G7ETJA8Z81	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	4	3	11	N	N	"There's no such thing as a perfect name"	After reading an interview with Jhumpa Lahiri in the current issue of Book Magazine I quickly pre-ordered a copy of her debut novel, THE NAMESAKE. Because I enjoyed other books geared towards the lived experiences of individuals from India I was sure I would enjoy it. Overall, I wasn't disappointed. Lahiri's prose is certainly admirable as I constantly found myself getting lost in her words. <br />At the center of THE NAMESAKE is Gogol, a second generation Bengali-American growing up in New England. His intended good name given by his great grandmother is somehow lost in the mail between Calcutta and Boston and as a result his pet name, Gogol, becomes his good name. But Gogol hates his name, especially when he discovers that he is named after a Russian writer who has lived a failed life. The NAMESAKE follows the life of Gogol and his feelings towards his name as he strives to find his true identity on the cultural bridge between Calcutta and Boston. <br />THE NAMESAKE is a good, but not great, book. The premise adds much light to the unique Bengali culture, although I found the final section to be somewhat dull and drawn out.	2003-09-22
US	51343369	RRURQ8VQX9PG5	0385509472	159804419	Diary: A Novel	Books	3	17	28	N	N	THE SURVIVAL OF WAYTANSEA ISLAND	While Misty's husband lies in a coma after a failed suicide attempt she writes a diary. But this isn't any ordinary diary of mundane daily events; it is rather a plunge into Palahniuk's world of fantasy, science fiction, and horror. This diary details the struggle of Misty's understanding of the unworldly events surrounding Waytansea Island. It is a world were everyone is telling her lies to keep her in the dark, but she knows something is fishy. Rich tourists are invading the island and making the locals dependent on their money. The tourists bring all the ills of society with them: pollution, corporate advertising, and a general decline in the standard of living. Misty finds out that her husband had been living a life of vandalism and violence directed towards the tourists that she was unaware. Rooms inside houses have suddenly disappeared and violent messages have been spray-painted along the walls. As Misty attempts to uncover the truth she realizes that she is in the center of the entire conspiracy.<br />DIARY is full of Palahniuk's signature style of social commentary. This time his literary guns are being directed towards the waste and destruction of upper class society. This is what his readers have come to expect. But unlike his other books, the prose in DIARY suffers from repetition that fails to add any anything to the plot. Palahniuk's constant usage of verbiage such as, &quot;just for the record&quot; and &quot;the weather today is...&quot; was distracting and a tad annoying. While the plot had some interesting aspects, its general nature appears to be outworn and old. <br />This book was far from being addictive, and I have enjoyed other Palahniuk's books better than DIARY.	2003-09-16
US	51343369	R1LTPNY6KCCKP6	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"EVERYTHING HAD AN ORDER AND A PLAN"	From the first moment I heard the premise of this book I was intrigued. The effects of living with autism remain clouded in mystery and are often misunderstood. A CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHTTIME provides the reader a rare glimpse into the world of autism. After Christopher, a 15-year-old autistic boy, discovers the murder of a neighbor's dog he decides to solve the mystery in the fashion of Sherlock Holmes. With the guidance of a schoolteacher Christopher documents his clues and suspicions in a book. He relies heavily on logical and mathematical explanations of the events occurring around him. Although his investigation begins with the dog's death, his focus quickly widens to the mysteries involved in his own family. <br />During his investigation Christopher highlights the numerous obstacles he faces as a result of his condition. He is extremely perceptive and sensitive of the details of objects around him. If he is unfamiliar with his surroundings he often suffers from a type of sensory overload since he is unable to filter out images, smells, and sound. Most importantly, Christopher is extremely sensitive to touch. One of the most touching aspects of this book was the manner of how others would hug him. <br />Mark Haddon succeeds in highlighting the obscurity of autism and simultaneously providing an entertaining story of the mysterious murder of a neighbor's dog. I don't hesitate to recommend this book to others.	2003-09-11
US	51343369	R2XWB3WTSEWM5Z	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	2	3	N	N	&quot;JUSTICE IS SOLD TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER&quot;	In A FINE BALANCE Rohinton Mistry transports the reader to an unnamed Indian city in 1975 after the government has declared an Emergency to deter all public and political opposition to the Prime Minister. During these uncertain times the four main characters must come to rely on each other for both safety and comfort. Each arrives at the realization that there is a fine balance between survival and despair. They transcend barriers of class and caste to forge real friendships. Previously not acquainted with India, I was consistently amazed at the mass of details portrayed in this book. The poverty and desperation of the lower classes successfully highlights the turmoil of the poor in India. Reading this book was a rude awakening for me that will certainly linger in my subconscious for a long time. It was difficult to put down, and sad to end. I wanted desperately to continue following the characters. Read A FINE BALANCE, then pass it along to others to enjoy and enlighten them. My copy will be loaned to family members and I am looking forward to reading Mistry's other novels. This book deserves 5+ stars.	2003-09-05
US	51343369	RYMSCZ6BBSV7G	1573227889	440138927	Tipping the Velvet: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	"SHE LOOKED LIKE A VERY PRETTY BOY"	TIPPING THE VELVET is my favorite novel by Sarah Waters to date. I enjoyed her other novels but this book was much more enjoyable for me. As always, Waters' does an excellent job in recreating the hostility and desperation of Victorian London streets. I could actually vision the damp streets and feel the cold winds. TIPPING THE VELVET follows the life of Nancy as she discovers her true sexuality and comes to grip with it while living in a society that is not accommodating to lesbians. Her adventures are indeed risky and she is always one step ahead of living in the streets. This book provides a rare glimpse into lesbian life in Victorian society that should entertain all readers alike. <br />I avoided watching the mini-series until I read the book (film adaptations rarely live up to the book). But now I can't wait to see this book on film. TIPPING THE VELVET was indeed difficult to put down and I constantly found myself thinking about it when I did. If you like reading about this type of book you may also enjoy THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE, which follows the life of a prostitute named Sugar. Enjoy!	2003-08-18
US	51343369	R1GORAWJVBYAXW	0151004145	289512427	The Cave	Books	4	2	4	N	N	&quot;I MIGHT AS WELL JUST DRIVE THE VAN INTO A WALL&quot;	Utilizing Plato's famous allegory Saramago provides a cynical and dark commentary on modern society in THE CAVE. In an unknown city in the distant future looms the Center, a multipurpose expansive complex for shopping, entertainment, and housing. The Center is a self-contained society as individuals can satisfy all needs without leaving. Even included are `sensations', or simulated activities of the outside world such as a rainstorm or a beach. It is evident that Saramago views the Center as a model of unbridled capitalism as each action made by the Center is done exclusively on terms of maximum rationalization and efficiency without concern for those negatively affected. <br />Ciprano is a self-employed third generation aging potter who has an exclusive contract with the Center to sell earthenware pots and jugs. He and his married daughter create the earthenware in their kiln at their modest country home. Each week he drives his van into this city to deliver his goods to the buying department at the Center. As he drives he passes shantytowns, desolate greenhouses, and decaying industrial complexes. It is during one of these excursions that Ciprano is informed that due to technological advances his product is no longer desired. The consumer now favors pots and jugs made from a durable plastic that is less known to breakage, unlike earthenware. Because being a potter is Ciprano's only trade and his contract forbids him from selling to other stores his career has ended prematurely. He is given two weeks to remove his remaining inventory from the Center's warehouse and his efforts of a supplier to the Center are congratulated. <br />It is at this tragic moment that subsequent events of THE CAVE unfold. Ciprano is forced to face his future with little hope of happiness or economic independence. He must face the fact that the Center no longer wants his outdated wares and is no longer needed. Written in Saramago's unconventional style of lacking paragraph indentations andincluding very minimal punctuation, THE CAVE is a brilliant tale of the horrors of free market capitalism that mirrors Saramago's own political beliefs. I am reluctant to give THE CAVE five stars because I felt there were too many instances of runaway prose that detracted from the story and some sections seemed to drag on and on. Otherwise, THE CAVE is a book that demands reflection and thought. It is not an easy book to read, both stylistically or thematically, but I believe it is well worth reading nonetheless.	2003-08-08
US	51343369	R1X8MTWOS57QE7	0375422307	373105656	Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood	Books	5	6	7	N	N	AN INNOVATIVE MEMOIR	The subject matter is brave while the illustrations are unconventional and smart. In PERSEPOLIS, Marjane recounts her childhood of growing up in Tehran during the 1979 Islamic Revolution. There is no doubt that Marjane has experienced more during her nine years than many have during their entire life in this country. Being raised by two forward-thinking parents, Marjane is provided a progressive glimpse into the political and cultural events occurring around her in Iran. But she is different than most Iranian children. She rebels against wearing the veil, is a fan of Western pop culture, and speaks out against fundamental doctrines during religion class. It is amazing that she (or her parents) weren't seriously reprimanded for their actions and beliefs. Marjane even attends a demonstration with her parents against the wave of religious fundamentalism engulfing Iran.<br />I truly loved PERSPOLIS because it provided a rare glimpse of growing up in Iran during the Islamic Revolution. I learned much about this very different culture while empathizing with her unique family. I feel as if I know them personally. Marjane's illustrations tell a thousand words. They are simple yet innovative and clever. I can't wait to read the next installment in this series and hope it is published soon. Enjoy!	2003-08-04
US	51343369	R1FY51MCJ9LSJQ	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THANK YOU, OPRAH!	I've always wanted to read more classical literature but I just didn't know where to begin. Bad memories of high school English class haunted me into my adulthood and limited my reading. Therefore I was very enthusiastic when Oprah's announced the idea of her new book club focusing on the classics. I thank her for giving me a means to read books that have stood the test of time. I believe EAST OF EDEN was a wonderful first selection as its plot is great in depth and scope. Primarily set in the early 20th century (beginning during The Civil War and ending with World War I), this book follows the life of Adam Trask as he finds his own Eden in the Salinas Valley of California. The characters are three-dimensional and believable. The most comprehensive is Cathy, Adam's wife with a very dark soul and is full of evil and hate. I have certainly never met a character like her before. Also unforgettable is Lee, Adam's Chinese-American servant who always managed to add much great philosophical insights into the events unfolding in the Trask household. In addition to the excellent character development Steinbeck included social commentaries on the founding of the West. I believe he did a very good job of balancing the good and the bad of Western expansion, particularly in regards to racial issues. I also appreciated Steinbeck's method of writing himself into the story as the narrator and even using his real name that is indeed rare. I didn't rush through this book as I would normally do but rather savored each chapter, however small or big. It has been a long time since I have read a book that has captured me like EAST OF EDEN has. This book will reside in a special place on my bookcase further enabling me to enjoy it for year to come. Bravo!	2003-07-24
US	51343369	R1E5GT6QXEXHC8	1573228737	595147475	Affinity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	SPIRITUALISM AND VICTORIAN GAOLS	Arguably, Sarah Waters is one of the most prolific contemporary authors of Victorian fiction. She has a gift of creating realistic and three-dimensional female protagonists immersed in a Victorian London setting that comes alive. In AFFINITY Margaret, a young spinster, is battling many personal demons. Her beloved father recently passed away, her secret lover chose her brother over her, and her overbearing mother is treating her like a child. Margaret's world takes a turn when she volunteers as a Lady Visitor for Millbank, a London gaol set along the banks of the Thames. As she immerses herself into the lives of the female prisoners Margaret becomes enchanted with one particular prisoner named Selena who is incarcerated for fraud and assault during one of her spiritualist sittings. The relationship between Margaret and Selena develops into deep friendship and love containing aspects of spiritualism that threatens the well being of both women.<br />Similar to FINGERSMITH, Sarah Waters provides enough plot twists and turns to keep the reader's attention along with an unanticipated ending. It was truly difficult for me to put this book down as I simply had to know what was going to happen next. Thinner than her two other novels, AFFINITY still packs a punch by providing an enduring plot with insightful characters. Despite my enjoyment, my main complaint centers on Waters' consistent use (or lack thereof) of quotation marks and punctuation. This aspect often interrupted my flow of reading and soon became a distraction. In addition, the narration often jumped from first to third person and it was somewhat too jolting for my comfort in many sections of the book. Despite these technical qualms I recommend AFFINITY to those who enjoyed her other books (FINGERSMITH and TIPPING THE VELVET) and by fans of Victorian fiction in general.	2003-06-30
US	51343369	RSJSBRIJEFGB8	0452269571	906896717	Bastard Out of Carolina	Books	4	3	3	N	N	RAW AND UNCOMPROMISING	While society tends to rely on Hollywood versions of growing up in the 1950's (i.e. stable and loving), BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA punches the reader in the stomach with its stark and brutal narration of Bone, a young girl struggling against all odds growing up in a poor \\"white trash\\" family in rural South Carolina. Rarely is a reader afforded a glimpse into a family riddled with so much violence and despair as the Boatwright's. Bone, desperate for her mother's love and devotion, constantly avoids the swings of her abusive stepfather who is apt to punish Bone for all his problems. Taking refuge in her mother's extended family Bone psychologically dismisses the abuse and is filled with shame until her breaking point is finally reached. BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA is a wonderfully, albeit disturbing, journey into a poor dysfunctional family during an era when we are constantly led to believe that the ideal family unit lived in every house. <br />Despite my enjoyment of this book I don't think I could dislike a character as much as I disliked Bone's mother. Her neglect to protect her daughter from the evils of her husband made me cringe in anger. How could she choose a man who can't keep a job and is full of empty promises over her own daughter? Maybe I am not savvy on victim psychology but after first instance of abuse she should have sent him packing for good. I was also irritated somewhat at the abusive relationship between Bone and the stepfather. I felt that the beginning of the violence was too jolting and wasn't explained adequately. For example, Bone expressed fear of his wringing hands but this was never demonstrated by his behavior for the reader to fully comprehend her fear. In addition, the onset of his physical violence was too abrupt. I felt as if their relationship went from calm to violent with no bridges or connections. While the later stages of the abuse were well written the beginning was unconvincing and one-dimensional.<br />Regardless of my technical qualms with this book, BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA is an enjoyable, albeit stomach wrenching, book that stays with the reader long after the book is put down. My heart goes out for Bone and her childhood. I wanted to protect her from her abusive stepfather and make everything okay. Although she is a fictionalized character I hope Bone's life turns out better than her adolescence.	2003-06-24
US	51343369	R1N3O6W2NH9V5O	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	STARK AND FRESH	Simply put, I loved ORYX AND CRAKE! Despite Atwood's grim futuristic plot of `science gone mad' I found it difficult to put this book down. The first person narration of Snowman (Jimmy) jumps between the present (a bleak world existing primarily of him and the Crakers) and the past (events leading up to the destruction of humanity) as the details of the plot are uncovered. I most enjoyed Atwood's fresh writing and awe-inspiring imagination. Although I am not a fan of the science fiction genre I loved reading about Snowman's interpretation of the end of society. Of course ORYX AND CRAKE contains many cautionary tales against gene splicing, corporations, and the power of the Internet (why aren't there any 'happy' books of the future?). Despite Atwood's bleak and dark vision of the future there is much to extract, as science can't eliminate human love and desire. The relationships between Crake, Jimmy, and Oryx are mysterious and convoluted and I wanted to learn more. I appreciated Atwood's ability to tell this tale without filling in all the details for the reader. Much is left to the reader's imagination and I wasn't annoyed by this at all. Without risking giving away anymore of the plot I will end this review by stating that I was left greatly satisfied by ORYX AND CRAKE. I remains a gem on my bookshelf.	2003-06-16
US	51343369	RGDJWRHNOJ8T6	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	3	2	5	N	N	MILDLY ENTERTAINING	I've heard praises of PLAINSONG for a long time thus far but have only recently picked it up to see what everyone's been talking about. Unfortunately this book has failed to capture me as it did others. While I did enjoy some aspects of the plot, other storylines annoyed and distracted me from my overall satisfaction. The plight of Victoria, a pregnant teenager kicked out of her mother's house and subsequently taken in by the generous townspeople, bordered on the sentimentalism of a Lifetime movie. [Amazingly, Billie Letts' WHERE THE HEART IS kept popping into my mind, as there are many parallels between the pregnant teenagers in these two books]. I also was frustrated several times as I doubted the authenticity of Victoria's actions. Regardless of my annoyance of Victoria, there are some redeeming qualities in PLAINSONG. I believe the characters with the rough edges around their corners were the best developed and most interesting (i.e., the McPheron brothers, Maggie Jones' senile father, Guthrie's estranged wife, and the old woman on the paper route.) I also enjoyed the setting of Holt, a small town in the high plains of Colorado. Kent Haruf should be commended for his portrayal of a small town as I could easily envision it in my mind.<br />Overall, I believe that if PLAINSONG lacked the storyline of Victoria it would have been much better. Evaluating the good and bad aspects I come to the conclusion that PLAINSONG is an average book that has potential for more.	2003-06-11
US	51343369	R2CSDMYT43836W	0786869011	516097065	My Forbidden Face: Growing Up Under the Taliban: A Young Woman's Story	Books	3	24	27	N	N	FALLS SHORT, BUT STILL WORTH READING	The publication of MY HIDDEN FACE: GROWING UP UNDER THE TALIBAN is timely due to the recent interest in Middle East issues. The treatment of women in this region of the world is astounding to some and horrifying to others [I put myself in the last category]. Women living under Taliban rule are the worldwide epitome of individuals stripped of all their humanitarian rights. Forced to remain in their homes unless escorted by a husband, brother, or father outside Afghani women were virtually cut off from society and forced to withdraw themselves for their own safety and survival. If they do venture outside they are banned from revealing their face in public women must wear the hooded garment often known as a burqa or chadri. The cover of this book sends shivers down my spine each time I view at it as a representation of society gone wrong. To add insult to injury this is done in the name of religion. Indeed this issue is fascinating and deserves much attention even after the Taliban was defeated.<br />I looked forward to reading Latifa's account of growing up female under Taliban rule (as the subtitle revealed). However, I felt a little disappointed when most of her recollections dealt with her life in Kabul  *before* Taliban rule. Her observations of how her life has changed since she was banned from education and work were excellent but short. Rather, she delves into her past and recounts how she lived under Soviet rule and subsequent tribal leaders. To read about the earlier sections of her life was good but I feel that the title of this book is misleading. In addition, chapters toward the conclusion of the book were confusing and convoluted as she jumped from one time period to another without any context or explanation. It appeared that she was hurrying to finish the remaining chapters in a mad dash.<br />Regardless, MY FORBIDDEN FACE is a worthwhile read and suggested to all those who are interested. Latifa succeeds in putting a [human] perspective to this horrifying phenomenon. Hopefully history will not repeat.	2003-06-10
US	51343369	R3J2VMYOHVGASL	0446530085	219114128	The Bondwoman's Narrative	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A GREAT SLAVE NARRATIVE	In THE BONDWOMAN'S NARRATIVE Hannah Crafts eloquently details the experiences of a light skinned female slave in the South in the decades preceding the Civil War. Discovered in the form as an unpublished manuscript by Henry Louis Gates, Jr. it is believed that this is the first slave narrative written by an African-American woman from only her perspective. Gates provides thorough scientific and literary evidence in both the forward and appendix proving its authenticity. I give Gates the benefit of the doubt that this manuscript is authentic as I am not an expert to judge otherwise. Regardless, THE BONDWOMAN'S NARRATIVE is a thoroughly enjoyable book that kept me reading far beyond my original intentions. I especially enjoyed the sections describing her accounts of running away from her master and mistress to freedom. Also admirable are her depictions of the evil slave speculator Mr. Trappe. What a hateful man he was to totally disregard the well being of slave for the sheer enjoyment of monetary profit. Hannah has the ability to make these characters come alive and does a good job at representing this painful time in American history. I applaud Gates for publishing the manuscript therefore enabling others to enjoy and sympathize with the life journey of Hannah. Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	51343369	R14LSF29UODT4M	0425188787	24558712	Hunting Season (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	ANOTHER GOOD ANNA PIGEON MYSTERY	What I enjoy most about Anna Pigeon mysteries is Nevada Barr's ability to make the setting one of the book's main characters. Barr breaths life into the various locations of the National Park System that Anna, a District Ranger, has worked at throughout this series. The reader is given a back door glimpse into these often-exotic locations across the United States. In HUNTING SEASON we are granted a behind the scenes tour of Mississippi's Trace Natchez National Park. Anna investigates the death of a local man discovered in an historic settlement building. To add to the mystery the death appears to be the result of an alleged sex crime. Throughout her investigation Anna confronts family secrets kept hidden for many generations and a large dose of sexism and racism to keep her from discovering the real killer. But Anna's infamous perseverance eventually solves this mystery and the Trace Natchez is restored to safety. In her Anna Pigeon character Nevada Barr creates a mystery series that is a delight to read and HUNTING SEASON is no exception.	2003-06-02
US	51343369	R1SAIYMD65XKN	0060501170	876613013	I'll Take You There: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	STRANGE, YET CAPTIVATING	I'LL TAKE YOU THERE was my first exposure to Joyce Carol Oates so I had no idea what to expect when I initially opened the front cover. At first glance the unnamed protagonist struck a nerve with me. She seemed so...strange and bizarre. But as the plot unfolded I became more entranced by her and began to comprehend her motives and actions. She was no longer strange but indeed a real and complex human being. Lacking any type of supporting family network she ventures through life trying to make emotional connections with others that she never experienced before. Set in upstate New York in the early 1960's the protagonist tries her best to integrate into Syracuse University social life. Unfortunately the harder she tries the more isolated she becomes. Her sorority sisters and classmates view her as a loser and social outcast. Her self-esteem suffers. Taking refuge in her studies she becomes enthralled by philosophical inquires. While in class one day she becomes acquainted with an advanced graduate student who shares her passion for philosophy. Social mores dictate that they should not become friends, let alone lovers, since she is white and he is black. Determined that she has enough love for both of them she begins to follow him around campus and stand outside of his apartment building. In the midst of the Civil Rights movement both characters face the harsh realities of race relations that are determined to split them apart. I'LL TAKE YOU THERE is a captivating novel that seeps into one's subconscious even while not reading. Oates' unnamed protagonist is unique and captivating. I enjoyed reading this book and I found myself often looking forward to the next time I can pick it up again.	2003-05-29
US	51343369	R39F0Q3G2UIVWV	0609806599	28814139	That Takes Ovaries!: Bold Females and Their Brazen Acts	Books	5	8	8	N	N	WHAT AN INSPIRATION!	The premise of THAT TAKES OVARIES is excellent: an email is sent out by Rivka Solomon to women friends and acquaintances asking them to recount instances where they boldly crossed the barriers of gender conventions of how a `proper' woman should act and behave. Surprisingly this same email was forwarded to other woman around the country. Responses flooded her in-box and Rikva had enough material to publish a book. The short stories included in this collection are remarkable. I was pleasantly surprised on the varied topics covered from women of all ages. Not only was I entertained but I was also enlightened by many of these women's contributions. No story stands out as being my favorite as there are simply too many to choose from! I enjoy reading short story compilations and it's rare that quality is dispersed throughout the book as in THAT TAKES OVARIES. Simply put, this book is one of the best short story compilations I have read in a long time. But more importantly, after reading this book I am filled with a renewed urge to fight against the gender conventions that limit me every day. I celebrate my unique women-ness and strength to fight for the causes I believe in. Kudos to Rivka for publishing this book!!	2003-05-28
US	51343369	R1NRGEZD5V9OQ0	0151006040	376354325	Odd Girl Out: The Hidden Culture of Aggression in Girls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A GOOD BEGINNING	In ODD GIRL OUT Rachel Simmons provides a good beginning of the examination of girl bullying. This book is long overdue as this type of bullying can often be more detrimental and hurtful than punches thrown in the playground by boys. Simmons' application of the concept of relational aggression is intriguing. There are indeed gender differences in bullying. Girl bullying is often hard to perceive from the outside and thus is difficult for schools and parents to identify and [hopefully] intervene. Most women have hurtful tales from childhood of being suddenly excluded from a group of friends or having rumors and gossip about them told behind their back. In Simmons' research she extracts tales from both her own personal history of bullying along with her original research to elaborate on her theory of relational aggression. The reader can certainly feel the pain of these girls as they recount their tales of female bullying. The deep scars often run into childhood. I, myself, have related back to my childhood to review my own experiences with female bullying while reading ODD GIRL OUT. <br />But as I have stated above, ODD GIRL OUT provides a good beginning. While reading this book I couldn't help but say, \\"I agree, but what about this?\\" Her theory of relational aggression is good but there were many instances when her analysis fell short. Her reliance on qualitative data did not allow for a more abstract view of this phenomenon. I am interested in how prevalent female bullying is in schools? Do boys bully more than girls and why or why not? Also, I believe Simmons' concept of female bullying can be applied to women in adulthood. Simply substitute the classroom for the workplace and this phenomenon continues to thrive in women. At work I have witnessed acts of relational aggression in women. It's sad but true.<br />Relations between girls and women are very complex and Simmons did a good job of exposing one piece of the pie. I applaud her efforts in exposing female bullying and all its negative consequences. Simmons alluded to her groundbreaking effort of exposure by stating that her intent is \\"to begin the process of naming and understanding [girl bullying]\\" (p. 231). There is no doubt that this book will help many girls and women in their own experiences and that alone makes reading this book highly worthwhile. My only wish is that other researchers will follow up on Simmons' research in the near future. This topic is so important that it deserves more attention from parents, educators, girls, and anyone concerned with the well being of girls.	2003-05-22
US	51343369	R11GVUEOKB6COM	0192833642	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MAGNIFICENT	In THE MILL ON THE FLOSS George Eliot provides an insightful and intelligent story depicting rural Victorian society. Set in the parish of St. Ogg's, Maggie and Tom Tulliver endure childhood and young adulthood while experiencing the harsh realities of poverty, devotion, love, and societal reputation. I emphasized greatly with Maggie as I have experienced some of her own lived experiences. I truly loved every chapter of this book and didn't want it to end. It is indeed very rare that I have this type of reaction to a book. Although this book was published during the Victorian era, it's amazing how Eliot's prose flows virtually unobstructed. The reader is given a rare glimpse into rural life during the 19th century and is treated to how strictly structured society was then. I am now a fan of Eliot and look forward to reading her other novels.<br />Bottom line: THE MILL ON THE FLOSS is an excellent novel. Enjoy!	2003-05-19
US	51343369	R2PRL1BRBT6S8T	0142002410	420943573	The Penguin Atlas of Women in the World: Completely Revised and Updated (Reference)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	AN INVALUABLE RESOURCE	I was first introduced to this atlas years ago in graduate school and was immediately impressed with the depth of subjects covered and professional graphics. As a result I was very happy to purchase Penguin's third edition of this atlas last week. Hot off the presses, THE PENGUIN ATLAS OF WOMEN IN THE WORLD contains up-to-date statistics of how women fare around the world. This invaluable resource is divided into the following seven sections: Women in the World, Families, Birthrights, Body Politics, Work, To Have and Have Not, and Power. This atlas succeeds where other types of media fail - it leaves a very evident impression of the continued discrepancy between men and women in all aspects of social, economic, and political life. After studying this atlas I was left with a renewed sense of what countries women fare better than others - and the answers might surprise you as much as myself! I highly recommend THE PENGUIN ATLAS OF WOMEN IN THE WORLD to anyone interested in the state of women around the world.	2003-04-28
US	51343369	R14KUWRB9V2PS2	0449908208	765015738	Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape	Books	4	75	90	N	N	AN HISTORICAL ANALYSIS OF RAPE	Published in the midst of the second wave women's movement AGAINST OUR WILL remains an integral book in the feminist literary canon to the present day. Employing an historical analysis Brownmiller reveals in exquisite detail how some men have been subjugating some women since Biblical times. Her thesis of the use of rape during wartimes as an arsenal for the winning army is especially strong and admirable. This section alone deserves to be read by anyone interested in gender and women's studies as it clearly demonstrates how rape has been used to further antagonize and horrify the defeated population. The utilization of rape during the World Wars, Vietnam, Bangladesh, and Serbia is certainly a difficult bit of knowledge to swallow. This book clearly demonstrates how rape has been used to keep some women on edge and weary of being both in public spaces and in their own homes.<br />Despite Brownmiller's important thesis I have several problems with AGAINST OUR WILL. Brownmiller has a tendency to over-emphasis her arguments with a deluge of statistics and case studies. It's almost as if she inserted every historical example she could find to further her arguments. Less is better in this instance. If she pared down her examples I believe her thesis wouldn't have been diluted in any such way. Another objection I have to AGAINST OUR WILL is her assertion of the following quote from her introduction, \\"Man's discovery that his genitalia could serve as a weapon to generate fear must rank as one of the most important discoveries of prehistoric times...[Rape] is nothing more or less than a conscious process of intimidation by which all men keep all women in a state of fear\\". My problem with this passage is two-fold. First, I think it is mundane and questionable to argue that man's discovery of rape ranks high next to the discovery of fire, etc. I also have clear problems with Brownmiller's assertion that *all* men contemplate rape to keep *all* women in a constant state of fear. It is clear that there are variations of fear and victimization in the general population. Brownmiller argued this every point later in her book when she discussed issues of class and race. To generalize this phenomenon to every man and woman is dangerous in itself. I consider myself to be a feminist but I strongly dispute some of Brownmiller's arguments.<br />Overall, AGAINST OUR WILL is an important book to read but please be careful not to consume all of the author's arguments at face value.	2003-04-22
US	51343369	R10NAAGDX7GGOT	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	5	2	4	N	N	ALL IN ONE DAY	Devoid of form and convention Virginia Woolf crafts a portrait of individual's consciousness in MRS. DALLOWAY. Gaining popularity after it's portrayal in Michael Cunningham's THE HOURS, MRS. DALLOWAY continues to be a classic in the many decades since it's original publication. Set in London in June 1923 Woolf creates an intriguing mix of characters. As Clarissa Dalloway is busy preparing for a party in the evening the narration cohesively jumps to Peter Walsh, her lover from years past. The reader also meets Sally Seton (her childhood friend), Elizabeth (Clarissa's daughter), Richard Dalloway (Clarissa's husband) and Septimus Warren Smith (a man suffering from shell shock from WW1) among others. Lack of action is fully compensated by the extraction of the inner workings of the character's consciousness. This aspect makes this book a success. We learn about their passions, guilt, anger, and loneliness. Transitions from one character to the next are seamless without losing the narration's flow. Especially admirable are the transitions occurring between strangers passing each other in Reagent's Park. I must admit that MRS DALLOWAY is not easy accessible as Woolf's prose can be convoluted and confusing to some readers. But I beg those who are struggling with this book to hang on. The ride can be difficult but the message is profound.	2003-04-18
US	51343369	R2EL1LJ83B28IW	0375713719	129991609	Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word	Books	2	20	32	N	N	THE N-WORD	I vividly remember the media attention this book received upon publication. Being interested in race relations in the United States, I have eagerly anticipated reading NIGGER: THE STRANGE CAREER OF A TROUBLESOME WORD. In this slim book Randall Kennedy investigates the social history of Nigger, a racial slur used for centuries to bring insult and degradation upon the Black population particularly in the Jim Crow South. Kennedy portrays examples from songs, court hearings, and his own personal history to document how Nigger has permeated American culture. Examining current usages of Nigger, Kennedy provides the thesis that although the word continues to be a racial slur it has also evolved into a sign of camaraderie among Blacks. Individuals have turned the negative into a positive in the face of America's racial past. Essentially Kennedy argues that in contemporary America the word Nigger projects a dual meaning in American culture. <br />With all that said, my problem with NIGGER stems from the fact that it fails to offer any new information. Individuals knowledgeable of American history should already be familiar with Kennedy's arguments concerning the usage and extent of the word Nigger. In addition, anyone observant of American culture can witness how Nigger has been transformed into a word of positive associations. Kennedy's etymology of Nigger is interesting but can be easily investigated in a similar fashion in a dictionary of American English. I really wanted to learn more about American history and society by reading this book but unfortunately NIGGER only reverberated what I already knew. So why does this book result in much praise and attention? I believe this is due to enabling individuals to read about a word that is so much scorned in our language and society. White individuals are forbidden to use this word in fear of strong repercussions, so what better why to read about Nigger than this book. NIGGER provides a socially accepted avenue to learn aboutBlack history. Believe me, I really wanted to be a fan of this book but I was utterly left feeling disappointed.	2003-04-16
US	51343369	RYX46FEV87KRZ	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	0	0	N	N	COUSINS MAKING COMIC BOOKS	Set against the backdrop of WWII, THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER & CLAY focuses on two Jewish cousins living in New York City while trying to make a name for themselves in the emerging comic book industry. Fantasy often transcends reality as Michael Chabon craves out this impressive tale of hope and survival in uncertain times. Josef Kavalier is the cousin that interested me the most while reading this book. Living in Prague during the beginning of the war, he was the only member of his family to escape Europe before the claw of the Third Reich suffocated every Jew in reach. Reaching his aunt's house in New York City, Josef and his American cousin Sam decide to create their own comic book featuring The Escapist battling enemies of current times (i.e. Hitler and his Nazi thugs). But even while The Escapist gained in popularity and made Kavalier and Clay famous, Joe's main attention focused on rescuing his family from Eastern Europe and bringing them to New York City. Although the plot of THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER & CLAY was admirable, I found Chabon's prose to be so convoluted in places that it hindered any further enjoyment. I almost felt that Chabon was trying too hard to impress upon the reader the mix of fantasy and reality. Regardless, I believe THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER & CLAY is worth your time and effort.	2003-04-07
US	51343369	R3SJXP4Y8JNZGQ	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	5	45	63	N	N	AN IMPORTANT QUESTION	Depending on one's political stance, WHY DO PEOPLE HATE AMERICA? can certainly cause controversy. The authors don't beat around the bush while presenting their arguments. Instead the reader is provided a thesis much devoid of jargon which can stun and embarrass at the actions and tactics of the American government. Using mass media as the vehicle to explore how individuals living outside of the U.S. borders, we begin to understand how detrimental many of our opinions and viewpoints are to other nations around the world. The influence of American mass media throughout the world cannot be understated. One only needs to travel abroad to quickly view how foreign lands are quickly becoming Americanized. I have sadly witnessed this phenomena myself many times in my previous travels. I cringe to think of the times when I strolled down the streets of Prague and show an endless wave of McDonald's and KFC, or trying on BBC and seeing a rerun of ER. Why are we spending much time and effort for foreign travel when the destinations are quickly resembling our hometown?<br />Furthermore, WHY DO PEOPLE HATE AMERICA? sheds new light on current events, i.e. Operation Iraqi Freedom. Chapter 6 (The Burden of the American Hero) was particularly helpful in enabling me to gain new insights of the troubling evening news. The role of the American foreign policy really makes one understand why being a bully is counterproductive to the public missions of the United States. Because I can walk away with a clearer understanding of current events the price of this book is justified.<br />In a nutshell the following quote sums up the author's arguments very nicely: &quot;What most people hate is 'America', the political entity based on authoritarian violence, double standards, self-obsessed self-interest, and an ahistorical naivety that equates the Self with the World.&quot; (p. 194)	2003-03-28
US	51343369	R373UUG29NT2JL	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	0	1	N	N	TWO STORIES IN ONE	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY essentially follows two separate plot lines that only have the 1893 World's Fair in common. Set in the economic depression of the late 19th century, the World's Fair appears to be destined to remain as a dream as one challenge after another faced the architects and tested their will. The reader follows the conceptualization and implementation of the architect's grand plans to not only stun the remainder of the country but also to show the world that Chicago is a city grander than the meat-packing plants and heavy industry that it is most known for. Meanwhile, in the nearby area of Englewood a serial killer is preying on vulnerable young women who tend to disappear without causing suspicions. These two stories join together at the height of the World's Fair and will forever change the city of Chicago.<br />I love to learn about the history of Chicago, and Erik Larson should be commended for bringing this important part of American history to life. Although we know that the history of the World's Fair is a success, THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY manages to keep you on the edge. Larson's prose successfully maintains suspense in both plot lines and I couldn't wait to finish the book so I can find out what happened. I can't imagine a more creepy psychopath than Holmes; to acknowledge that he did exist simply sends chills down my spine. In this instance I believe that fact is more terrifying than fiction. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE rivals other non-fiction I have recently read. If you enjoy a good story based in fact, check out this book. You most likely won't regret it.	2003-03-19
US	51343369	R3EVUBCRJIIWT5	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	4	6	7	N	N	GRAND IN SCOPE AND SIZE	Set in Victorian London, THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE focuses on the life of Sugar, a nineteen-year-old prostitute forced into her trade by her ruthless mother and Madame, Mrs. Castaway. Sugar, like many other women inhabiting her station in society, dreams of elevating herself and becoming a respectable lady. The lure of Sugar is known throughout London as it is rumored that she will `do anything' to please a gentleman and it is this lure which initially attracts William Rackham to her. After one evening with Sugar, William is determined to have her for himself and scoffs at the thought of another man spoiling her. The next day he pays off Mrs. Castaway and sets Sugar up in a house far from the seedy and dirty streets where she originated. Realizing that it is now in her best interests to keep William satisfied and willing, Sugar is determined to know everything about him and his family and she begins to take an active role in his perfume company and follows his wife throughout London during the Season.<br />The prose is spectacular and the details of Victorian life are so well-drawn that one can easily imagine standing on the dirty cobblestone streets in London hearing the calls of street vendors, seeing the prostitutes standing in the doorways, and smelling the fresh horse dung. Michel Faber should be commended for all his years of research as he successfully bought this segment of history to vivid life for the reader. With that said, this is undoubtedly a large book of over 800 pages. It took me longer to finish than previously believed, as the plot became more `heavy' as time progressed. After a while I began to feel weighed down by all the details. Although I enjoyed reading this book, I can't help to feel that it could have been trimmed down several hundred pages without running the risk of losing anything substantial. There was also a lack of what I will term `smooth character transformation'. When the characters of Sugar or William change their motivations it is never portrayed or explained to the reader. Instead it just...happens. From one chapter to the next William goes from being a loafer to becoming the head of a large perfume company and Sugar quickly changes from despising Agnes to trying to help to escape her torment. Regardless of these apparent flaws, THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE is well worth the effort and I certainly don't regret the time I've spent. Enjoy	2003-03-11
US	51343369	R60ZLK0J4TMK6	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A MUST READ BOOK	Set in the harsh Nebraska plains during the late 19th century, MY NTONIA follows a Bohemian immigrant family as they attempt to tame their wild land and become self-supporting farmers. Narrated by Jim Burden, a young orphan who recently moved from Virginia to his grandparent's farm in Nebraska, he first encounters the Shimerdas as they embark from the same train to settle in the rugged and wild plains. MY NTONIA is about the platonic love and admiration shared between Jim and ntonia from their initial meeting on the long train ride from the East and long into their adulthood. Although Jim and ntonia are separated geographically for up to twenty years in late adulthood, both find that the other remains in their hearts and center of their childhood memories. <br />Aside from the human characterizations in this novel, the Nebraska prairie plays a significant part in MY NTONIA. The reader is given a glimpse of the beginning land cultivation and an understanding of the hard work involved in transforming the wild prairie land with the red grass to farm plots of corn and wheat. In a time before county roads and highways are constructed, horses must pave their own path through the terrain to travel to the next farmhouse or the nearest town. MY NTONIA captures brilliantly how farmers are essentially controlled by weather and sun patterns than by a time clock. Written mere decades after the Native Americans left the prairie, MY NTONIA displays the initial founding of this land by Anglo farmers and merchants.<br />Another aspect of MY NTONIA that I enjoyed was the portrayal of the traditional of oral storytelling. With the lack of modern forms of entertainment and high illiteracy rates, individuals living on the plains were left to tell stories at the end of a hard day's work. There certainly wasn't a lack of highly imaginative stories told around the kitchen fire. Some of these stories included tales of why neighbors were forced to leave their homeland due toscandals while others involved questionable behavior that occurred in their own back yards. These stories were told with much detail and humor that I couldn't help but laugh while reading them!  I found them to be clever and original.<br />MY NTONIA is a delightful story that is difficult to put down. I believe it deserves to be classified as an American classic as this story contains so many timeless elements and enduring characters that continue to stay with you long after you finish the book.	2003-02-24
US	51343369	R13221QAUDOL6L	0007141076	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	NOT CAROL SHIELDS' BEST, BUT NOT THE WORST EITHER	It's interesting reading these reviews as it appears that other readers believe that UNLESS is either brilliant or nonsense, with minimal variation in between. With that said, I am one of few who reside in the middle. In my own opinion UNLESS is a good book but certainly not a masterpiece. It's a little too skimpy for my own tastes since I prefer books with a little more &quot;meat.&quot; A longer length would have enabled Carol Shields to develop the plot and characters to a much greater extent, something I believe is a fault. UNLESS could have easily been a 350 page or greater novel instead of one that barely reached 200 pages.<br />The premise of UNLESS is excellent - a mother coming to terms with the choices her child has made. At the beginning the reader has the impression that Norah, the eldest daughter who is the focus of Carol Shield's latest novel, is deceased due to the grief that is protrayed throughout her family. But the reader soon discovers that Norah is not dead but has dropped out of the University of Toronto and is now pandhandling on a busy street corner in downtown Toronto. Carol Shields slowly reveals the events in Norah's life leading up to her present condition. But there is a vital piece of the puzzle missing as no one understands what makes Norah remain on that street corner in a virtual catatonic state. The question remains unanswered until the end of the novel when all the strings come together. <br />Unlike other reviewers I was not annoyed by the clean ending, the reluctance of the family to force Norah off the street corner or the feminist ideologies broadcasted throughout the novel. But, as I already stated, I would have appreciated more character and plot development. There is room for improvement. For example, I would have liked to known more about the mother-in-law living next door whose life is protrayed as being one-dimensional. In all fairness I do believe that Carol Shields did an excellent job of protraying the family as normalat the surface but saddened below. <br />UNLESS is not the best work of Carol Shields, but it's also not the worst. I am surprised that UNLESS was shortlisted for the 2002 Booker. I believe that other books in this category are far more superior (e.g. FINGERSMITH, LIFE OF PI). But obviously at least one of the judges was in the category that this book is brilliant.	2003-02-19
US	51343369	R1SQR8E7MWIDII	0743457463	907675299	Irish Girls About Town	Books	5	49	51	N	N	SIXTEEN SMART IRISH SHORT STORIES	I am a fan of short stories and IRISH GIRLS ABOUT TOWN was certainly not a disappointment. This book is a collection of sixteen short stories of the newest and best Irish women writers of pop fiction. Each story is focused on some aspect of a woman's love or involvement with a man. Many are written with smart insights and witty humor which I enjoyed much. Among them there are several that resonated with me after I put the book down including &quot;Soulmates&quot; by Marian Keyes (envy is a negative human quality); &quot;The Twenty-Eighth Day&quot; by Catherine Barry (a very funny take on PMS); &quot;The Cup Runneth Over&quot; by Julie Parsons (marital affairs can burn both conspiring partners); &quot;The Ring Cycle&quot; by Martina Devlin (a wedding ring just won't go away); and &quot;The Unlovable Woman&quot; by Annie Sparrow (sometimes the best things are right before our eyes).<br />IRISH GIRLS ABOUT TOWN is an excellent means to get acquainted with Irish women authors who you may have previously been unfamiliar with. At the end of each story there is a short bio which makes it easy to pursue other works by authors that you enjoyed. In addition, there are also authors that are already well known such as Maeve Binchy. Another good quality of IRISH GIRLS ABOUT TOWN is that all benefits goes towards charity. As explained in the book's forward, The Society of St. Vincent de Paul and Barnardo's are two organizations that brings great benefits to the people of Ireland, Britian and the world. Read this book, and you may just be as entertained as I was. Enjoy!	2003-02-17
US	51343369	R1TYZOO8Q6FX8N	0375421815	987113882	The Crazed: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	MORE LIKE 4.5 STARS	As Jian Wan studies hard for the PhD entrance exams for the classical literature at Beijing University, Professor Yang, his mentor and future father-in-law, suffers a stroke and is hospitalized. Due to the absence of Professor Yang's family Jian is asked to watch over him during the afternoons. Beforehand Jian was confident that he knew Professor Yang well. Working side by side on academic matters in addition to being engaged to his daughter lead Jian to believe that he lived a pleasant life of an esteemed scholar. But Jian's beliefs are shaken when Professor Yang blurts out political slogans, poetic verses, and anti-academia arguments that were contrary to the Professor Yang he knows, or thinks he knows. Jian ponders whether the rantings reveal a new aspect of Professor Yang or if dementia is the cause. These rantings soon leds Jian to readdress his goals of becoming a scholar and attending Beijing University. As these doubts grow inside him Jian must face his fiance waiting for him in Beijing while he learns that things (and people) are not as they seem. While these events unfold in Jian's life political tensions continue to rise as students in Beijing protest government policies eventually leading to the infamous student uprisings in Tiananmen Square. Although Jian is not political he cannot help but become involved in the riots himself, although with different motivations than other protestors.<br />I simply enjoyed THE CRAZED and often found it difficult to put down. Ha Jin creates an engaging portrait of life inside academia in China, and it's distance from the life of a common laborer. His descriptions of Chinese culture enables one to learn more of this distant land that many in the West often know little about. I most appreciated his protrayal of Beijing during the student uprisings and how the city turned into a war zone while martial law was enacted. I can clearly imagine the tanks running down students and buses positioned in the streets as barricades tokeep the soldiers away from Tiananmen Square. What a horrific event to witness and even partake in. But Ha Jin manages to write in a sensitive manner that enables one to view the events from the perspective of the protesters. It made me remember the news coverage of the riots and view them with a different, and more enlightened, frame of mind. For this I am thankful for reading THE CRAZED.	2003-02-15
US	51343369	R1K11CFAOB5LJ5	081296666X	645608703	Things My Girlfriend and I Have Argued About: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	SMART AND WITTY HUMOR	THINGS MY GIRLFRIEND AND I HAVE ARGUED ABOUT is a comical and very funny glance at the relationship of Pel and Ursula in northeast England. This book follows the adventures of Pel at work and at home as he struggles from one disaster to the next. He manages to get himself into some very funny situations that made me laugh out loud many times. Pel's insights are fantastic and I couldn't help but cheering for him to come out victorious. There were so many passages that delighted me it's difficult to pick a favorite but if I had to choose I would rate Ursula's incident with the roof repair men at the end and Pel getting himself stuck trying to climb out of the bathroom window at the top. To tell the truth I was unsure whether I would enjoy this book when I first picked it up but now I am so glad that I gave it a chance. Why did I hesitate? Don't hesitate with THINGS MY GIRLFRIEND AND I ARGUE ABOUT, as this is one of the funniest books I have read. I am now a new fan of Mil Millington.	2003-02-11
US	51343369	R1QST2EYG379G1	0375414290	333703164	When the Emperor Was Divine	Books	4	7	7	N	N	GOOD THINGS COME IN SMALL PACKAGES	WHEN THE EMPEROR WAS DIVINE tells the gripping tale of a Japanese-American family sent away to an internment camp in 1942. Their devastation begins when the father was arrested while still in his slippers and bathrobe on the night of Pearl Harbor. Months later flyers are posted throughout Berkeley announcing the mandatory deportation of all individuals of Japanese hertitage. The mother and her two small children are sent on a long train ride and eventually settle in a camp in Utah for three years and five months.<br />Julie Otsuka's prose is excellent and convincing. She writes in a style that kept me fully engaged and I was anxious to find out what happened to this anonymous family. Will they ever see the father again? How will they be able to rebuild their lives when they are eventually released after the end of the war? I most enjoyed the insights of the little boy as he endured the time spent in the detention camp. His imagination and seriousness are beyond his years. Their return home was most sad.<br />WHEN THE EMPEROR WAS DIVINE tells the story of one of the darker chapters in American history. The horrors that they have endured must have been awful. Their only crime was of being of Japanese hetitage. This book is small but don't let that fact put you off since Julie Otsuka packs a bunch in her debut novel. Simply put, this book is well worth reading.	2003-02-11
US	51343369	R3PYYTXGKOO8OE	0609608339	364345310	The Buffalo Soldier	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A GOOD (BUT NOT GREAT) BOOK	In rural northern Vermont Terry and Laura Sheldon tragically lost their twin 9 year old daughters in a flash flood two years earlier. As they both progess along their own paths of grief, they decide to open up their hearts and their home to another child. They decide to take in a 10 year old African American foster child named Alfred after they cannot conceive another child on their own. Due to Alfred's past of neglect and the constant shuffling from foster home to foster home, he is reluctant to open himself up to the Sheldon's and his new home. He feels left out by the other kids at school -- either due to his race or the fact that he his a foster child (or a combination of both) remains unclear --but Alfred takes comfront in his neighbor Paul, a retired college professor. As their friendship grew Paul teaches Alfred about some of his history by the means of the Buffalo Soldiers. <br />Meanwhile the marriage of Terry and Laura continues to disintegrate even after Alfred has joined their family. Terry has a one night stand with a younger woman named Phoebe who ends up pregnant. Now Terry to torn between Laura and Phoebe. But the decision is not all in his hands as these women have a say on their futures in the end. To top it all off Terry has failed to bond with Alfred while at the same time Laura begins to think of Alfred as her son.<br />... I think one of Bohjalian's strengths was his protrayal of the floods. I could  'see' the cresting riverbanks and destroyed property. Bohjalian really hit the mark! Notwithstanding, I was slightly disappointed in the lack of character development. I often felt that Laura, Alfred and Terry were one-dimensional and 'flat'. Also, the ending was a bit disturbing but it contained a wonderful climatic atmosphere the last 100 pages or so that keep me reading well into the night. Although THE BUFFALO SOLDIER does not live up to the brilliance of THE MIDWIVES, it still remains a good book that I would recommend to others.	2003-02-05
US	51343369	R3QKHLCJ6Q6HRT	1573229725	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A VICTORIAN PAGE TURNER	Set in Victorian England, FINGERSMITH tells the tale of the intertwined lives of Sue and Maud and their involvement in a scheme to get their hands on a large inheritance. To tell any more of the plot would possibly risk giving away some delicious tidbit. The reader should begin FINGERSMITH knowing as little as possible to enable them to fully appreciate all the twists and turns that are involved. Once one thinks they've figured it out they are once again left in the dark. Not until the last paragraph does one come upon the ending.<br />There is so much enjoyment to be found in FINGERSMITH. The writing is beautiful and enchanting. There were so many scenes where I could really 'feel' what it would be like to live during this time period. I most appreciated Waters' portrayal of the mad house before the advent of modern psychiatric knowledge and care. What a grim and desolate place to find yourself in. I have not enjoyed a work of historical fiction as much as FINGERSMITH since I read Margaret Atwood's ALIAS GRACE, which is equally impressive. FINGERSMITH is well worth reserving time during the day to indulge yourself.	2003-01-30
US	51343369	R2PAID73F8ODBO	0679435549	101928054	Caramelo	Books	4	3	3	N	N	AN ENCHANTING MEXICAN-AMERICAN FAMILY	CARAMELO begins with the story of the young Lala, the youngest  of seven children living in Chicago during the school year and with her grandparents in Mexico during the summer. Sandra Cisneros gives the reader a beautiful depiction of life between these two opposed worlds, each thought of as 'the other side'. Not only are these two cities geographically distant but they are also culturally distant from each other. As Lala grows older she begins to conceptualize how her family fits into the larger social framework. <br />Most inspiring is Lala's relationship to Soledad, her paternal grandmother she refers to as the Awful Grandmother. Soledad is certainly not a likeable character even when we learn of her painful past. Her most treasured possession is a scarf the color of candy, or caramelo, that her deceased mother never finished. Lala's ties to Soledad continue even from the grave as the Awful Grandmother guides Lala to do the right thing through her young adulthood.<br />Most impressive in CARAMELO was Cisneros' use of footnotes to explain the meanings of various Mexican culture and history inferences. There are times when there are footnotes inside footnotes! This was most helpful for the reader who is not familiar with these topics (such as myself). For these reasons and many more it is apparent that a great amount of time and research went into writing CARAMELO. Cisneros should be commended for her efforts.<br />The depictions of the Mexican Revolution were breathtaking. This is a piece of world history that I was not previously aware of. The descriptions of Mexico City makes me want to visit it to witness its glory and view the characters on the street often described. It should also be stated that Cisneros does a marvelous job in depicting Chicago, especially Maxwell Street which fails to exist. This is an important part of the history of Chicago that should not be forgotten.<br />I enjoyed reading CARAMELO and would recommend it to others.	2003-01-19
US	51343369	R1P1Z776MNN6AN	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	2	3	N	N	WINNER OF 2002 BOOKER PRIZE	Due to a tragic accident Pi Patel finds himself the sole (human) survivor of the cargo ship in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. From that point forward Pi must fight exhaustion, hunger and apathy in order to stay alive. He manages to swim to a rescue boat that is accompanied by several zoo animals that are part of the ship's cargo. He is able to utilize his knowledge of zoology he had learned from his father to successfully live in the lifeboat with Richard Parker, a tiger.<br />Surpringly, my favorite part of this book was the first section before the cargo ship sank. I loved the details of his life and how he interacted with his family. I almost didn't want this section to end. I would have gladly read a book simply concerning Pi's life in India.<br />THE LIFE OF PI was beautifully written. It is a quick read and well worth one's time and effort. I really appreciated Martel's development of the 'society' that lives underneath the surface of the ocean. This really validates the idea that the ocean is so much more than water and waves. I also enjoyed how Pi, before becoming a castaway, embraced the Hindi, Muslim and Christianity religions and how others reacted to his decision. It really made me wonder if there would be more understanding between these religions if people studied more than one. Maybe walls that divide them would disintegrate? I wonder...<br />I recommend THE LIFE OF PI to others who enjoy reading a good book.	2003-01-14
US	51343369	R1A9HDFAKTEB9A	0375705333	945255098	Looking for Lovedu: A Woman's Journey Through Africa	Books	5	11	11	N	N	AN AFRICAN EXPEDITION	In 1995 Ann Jones and her traveling partner, Kevin Muggleton, set off on an expedition through the African continent. Driving from Tangier to Cape Town, Jones is in search of the mystical Rain Queen of Lovedu, a matriarchal tribe in southern Africa. Jones is equally interested in whether the Lovedu tribe continues to exist and how their feminist values of cooperation, compromise, tolerance, mutual helpfulness and forgiveness coincide with the paternalistic and masculine doctrines she has witnessed throughout Africa. <br />Along the way Jones is confronted with horrific and dangerous traffic conditions, especially at the beginning of their journey. After conquering the Sahara Desert they drive through land that often didn't have suitable roads, if there were any! They also had to cross rivers without bridges and were forced to make their own rafts. Not only was the physical terrain a challenge but they also had to deal with constant bureaucracy while obtaining visas and paying bribes. Jones had no idea of what would occur at the next bend of the road.<br />With all that said, LOOKING FOR LOVEDU is an excellent travel narrative that allows the reader to vividly imagine what it must be like to go on an African expedition of their own. Jones does a superb job of intertwining the history of Africa along with her own travel experiences. The effects of colonialism, globalization, tourism, and environmentalism are all explored in an attempt to understand how Africa is sustaining in the current social world. LOOKING FOR LOVEDU is a good book to read if you're interested in both travel and feminism. You may just be enlightened as I was when I finished reading it.	2003-01-09
US	51343369	R37XULSDWXIC3S	0679767924	236199661	Independent People	Books	5	8	9	N	N	AN ICELANDIC EPIC	There are multitudes of underlying themes in INDEPENDENT PEOPLE that it almost demands a second reading to fully appreciate this novel. Halldor Laxness created an enriching tale of Bjartur, a hardheaded sheep farmer who is fiercely loyal to the concept of remaining self-sufficient. After spending 18 years as a laborer he finally saved an adequate amount of money to purchase his own plot of land. Unfortunately, Bjartur's new land happens to be haunted with evil spirits that he is determined to ignore and discredit. He cares more for his sheep than for his family and remains stubborn as Iceland embarks on a socialist platform. Will Bjartur be able to modify his allegiances before he is left behind in the new Icelandic markets? More importantly, will he learn to accept the choices and faults of his children?<br />Laxness paints a picture of the bleakness of rural life in Iceland in the early 20th century. The reader receives a feeling of the climate and land as well as rural Icelandic society. Laxness' portrayal of the dales and moors very often results in a sad picture of humanity. On top of all that, the hard life of the sheep farmer makes for a very sad story. The absurdity of life really shines through. For these reasons many people will assess INDEPENDENT PEOPLE as being too grime and depressing as it is definitely not a \\"feel good\\" book, but at the same time there is a hidden quality that brings beauty to Bjartur's life on the dales. If you're able to uncover that beauty as I have then you many just enjoy INDEPENDENT PEOPLE as much as I have. And don't forget the subtle humor involved. I simply could not help laughing at Bjartur's stubbornness. Bravo!	2003-01-03
US	51343369	R2EIB73TZJXLZH	1585746827	558179560	Common Phrases: And Where They Come From	Books	5	26	29	N	N	NOW I KNOW	I've always been intrigued by common phrases, or idioms, that are part of our everyday language. As a result I was happy to get my hands on this book. After reading COMMON PHRASES: AND WHERE THEY CAME FROM I feel as if many of my questions have been answered. <br />In the introduction, almost as interesting as the body, Morduck and Korach explain the prevalance of idioms in addition to their historical and social significance. Now I realize how these common phrases maintain an important bond between the present and the past. Some of the idioms are so commonplace that I didn't realize their historical significance. Here is an example I found interesting,<br />&quot;Apple of My Eye: It was believed as long ago as the ninth century that the pupil of the eye was a vital spot in the human anatomy. Primitive medical curiousity about it caused the early healers to study the pupil as closely as they could. They concluded that it was apple shaped, and so it become popularly known as 'apple of the eye.' Because the pupil was considered as vital as life itself, it become customary for a gallant hero to call the object of his affections 'the apple of my eye.'&quot; (p. 16)<br />COMMON PHRASES: AND WHERE THEY COME FROM is well worth the money and time if you're as interested in idioms as I am.	2003-01-01
US	51343369	R2KBRYJ4GCFCOM	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	BEAUTIFUL AND TOUCHING	In 17th century Holland, 16-year-old Griet is involuntary sent to work as a maid due to her father's occupational accident that left him blind and unemployed. Strings were pulled and she went to live in the Vermeer residence. Griet's beauty and grace catches the eye of Mr. Vermeer, the famous painter, and she eventually becomes his assistant against the wishes of her mistress. As the narrative unfolds Griet must balance her work obligations to her mistress and her fascination with her master and his craft. She is successful in her deceit until her master asks her to pose for the infamous painting that is displayed on this book's cover. After the painting is finished Griet's secret becomes common knowledge in the household and she will have to pay the consequences.<br />I remained fully enchanted while reading THE GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING. It is written in such a fantastic and splendid manner that I felt drawn into the pages. The life of a maid during these times was very interesting. In addition, I was captivated by the procedure for extracting the colors for painting that Griet assisted in. It's amazing how times have changed! I am giving a copy of this book to my mother as a gift as I'm sure she will enjoy it as much as I have.	2002-12-14
US	51343369	R2WPT5SRHO9LJO	0375412824	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier	Books	4	1	1	N	N	WHAT WOULD YOU DO?	After graduating college Carrie Bell finds herself questioning her long-term relationship with her boyfriend, Mike. They have grown so close over the years that she feels there is nothing left to learn or to discover about him and their relationship. Carrie feels like she's in a rut. During a Memorial Day picnic at Clausen's Reservoir Mike has a dreadful accident that leaves him paralyzed and in the hospital with a long road ahead of him. Now Carrie is faced with the ultimate decision: should she remain loyal to Mike despite her prior uncertainties or should she break free and find what is best for herself? Furthermore, she must make her decision without appearing to be selfish to her friends and family.<br />THE DIVE FROM CLAUSEN'S PIER has received some harsh reviews on this website that I personally do not agree with. Sure, there were some holes in the plot and some characters were one-dimensional but it was an enjoyable read nevertheless. I wouldn't rate this book in my top 5 books of the year, but I also wouldn't rate it as a &quot;stinker&quot; either.	2002-12-13
US	51343369	R3UQM3G2UC8YTZ	0618246940	988312797	The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2002 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	NOT ONLY FOR YOUNGER AUDIENCES	Editor Dave Eggers explains that this inaugural edition of THE BEST AMERICAN NONREQUIRED READING 2002 is targeted for 15 to 25-year-olds. However, I can testify that individuals outside this predetermined age bracket can also gain enjoyment from this book. The wide variety of stories ranging from fiction to nonfiction satisfied me and kept me turning the pages. I enjoyed a great majority of the stories and only disliked two (which is rather remarkable considering that short story compilations seem to contain an equal share of winners and losers, in my own opinion.)<br />The journalistic entries were phenomenal and shed light on current events such as methamphetamine addiction in Asia, undocumented Mexican laborers in NYC, and Afghanistan soldiers fighting their civil war. Some of the comical pieces made me laugh out laugh such as \\"The Fourth Angry Mouse\\" and \\"My Fake Job\\" and The Onion entries were also notable (I'm already a fan of that publication.)<br />Sure, there were some stories intended for a 15 to 25-year-old audience but I could still relate even though it's been a decade since graduating high school. Who can forget what it's like during those delicate years? Overall, I very much enjoyed this book and will be looking forward to the 2003 edition.	2002-12-12
US	51343369	R1KEEDA6BHSHCH	0375419934	655958233	The World Below	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A time for reflection	Catherine Hubbard, a twice-divorced middle-aged school teacher and mother of three grown children, decides to take a sabbatical leave from her job and spend autumn at her grandmother's house in Vermont that she recently inherited. Upon her arrival Catherine delves into a period of discovery about the life of her grandmother who she had always had a fondness. Catherine's memories of her family's past is intertwined with passages from her grandmother's diaries that she finds hidden in the attic. Through this process Catherine learns about her grandmother's life in rural Maine during the early 1900's and she becomes aware of events that were previously hidden from her, such as her tuberculosis and the time spent at a sanitarian.<br />I listened to the personal histories of THE WORLD BELOW unravel during my commute to and from work and was kept fairly entertained. This was my first encounter with Sue Miller and would consider reading another one of her novels if the opportunity presents itself.	2002-12-07
US	51343369	R1KGTZECXUUKIF	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	One word: Bravo!	In society gender is very often thought of in terms of being male and female exclusively while hermaphrodites have existed in circus-type freakshows and often thought of as a failure of nature. However, MIDDLESEX succeeds in developing a protagonist who is a hermaphrodite *and* a human being with feelings and desires as everyone else. Callie/Cal is not a freak or a monster but simply was born with a receptive mutation of the fifth chromosome. Originating from a Greek Orthodox family, MIDDLESEX  weaves together scientific explanation and old world mysticism as the story of Callie/Cal unfolds.<br />I was completely enthralled with this beautiful and captivating novel. MIDDLESEX was difficult to put down, even for one minute, and is one of the best books I have read in some time. Each character is multi-dimensional and believable. I generally cared for them. I felt as if I were a member of the Stephanides family, or simply a fly on their  wall. Even the setting of Detriot acted as a main character while the reader follows the growth of the city from the industrial times of automobile factories to the race riots of the 1960's and beyond. MIDDLESEX is definately worth reading.<br />Very highly recommended.	2002-12-06
US	51343369	R16D12ULU04VNY	0385504470	598573199	Lullaby: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Beware of the culling spell...	This is the first time I read a Palahniuk novel, though I did see THE FIGHT CLUB when it was first released and today it still remains one of my all time favorite movies. Reading LULLABY was certainly an adventure in itself that will linger for sometime. I could actually picture the movie adaptation of LULLABY in my mind while turning each page.<br />The plot is imaginative and extraordinary. Carl discovers a pattern to several SIDS deaths while writing a feature newspaper article. He realizes that an African culling spell was read preceeding each death. Carl aims to destroy each copy of the culling spell. During his journey he meets a cast of strange characters including Helen, Mona, Oyster, Sarge, and Nash. While in an effort to save humanity from the culling spell, Carl finds himself involved in his own internal journey of what his life has become.<br />Palahniuk successfully weaves strands of social commentary aimed primarily at the increasing influence of mass media and commercialism on individuals minds and free will (i.e. these noise-oholics and quiet-ophobics.) In addition, Palahniuk's use of color was exceptional. I've never read a novel which uses colors the way Palahniuk does. It creates a visual effect which further enhances the story and results in a unique experience. Highly recommended.	2002-11-27
US	51343369	R1I3WHBDDYMVTY	0385721625	642419758	The O. Henry Prize Stories 2002 (Pen / O. Henry Prize Stories)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A mixed bag	According to the editor of PRIZE STORIES 2002: THE O. HENRY AWARDS, thousands of  short stories from hundreds of magazines were painstakingly reviewed in an effort to compile an anthology of the year's best in stort story fiction. This year twenty stories made the list while three of them were voted the best by the jurors Dave Eggers, Joyce Carol Oates and Colson Whitehead. I personally do not agree with the juror's selection of the top short stories, which is a clear indication of how subjectivity is involved in the process of judging literature. What is enjoyable to one person certainly might not be for another. I've been reading this analogy periodically during the past couple of weeks and I finished with mixed feeling. Some stories intrigued me while others were downright uncaptivating. In addition, a couple were so utterly strange that they could be episodes of the twilight zone!<br />Out of this collection my favorite short story was A.M. Homes' \\"Do Not Disturb\\", which is a tale of a husband trying his best to emotionally deal with his bitter terminally ill wife as their marriage falls apart.  I also enjoyed Anthony Doerr's \\"The Hunter's Wife\\" about how a husband deals with the supernatural powers of his wife in Montana. The reason why I didn't give this book five stars is because I believe that there are more losers than winners in this collection. But don't just take my word for it. Remember that the appreciation of literature is subjective. You just may love it!	2002-11-27
US	51343369	R3GWIDJJ9H65YZ	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	2	2	N	N	So this is chick lit?	This was my first dabble into the new genre of chick lit, but I was already filled with expectations before I opened the cover for the first time. There seems to be a formulaic feature to these types of stories: girl begins downridden then finds the will inside to have confidence in herself right before leaving behind the negative influences in her life and walking away with a sense of girl power. The plot of &quot;Good in Bed&quot; replicates this plot line which makes it a somewhat predictive read but remained entertaining all the while. Cannie even describes herself as a fatter version of Allie McBeal and Bridgette Jones at the beginning of the book. <br />Overall I rate &quot;Good in Bed&quot; as a good book to lose yourself in while at the beach or some such as it doesn't contain any heavy plot lines that requires more serious attention. However, I did detect several instances of inconsistences in the plot and there were also some glaring editing errors which can probably be attributable to this being Jennifer Weiner's first novel. I was a little put off by the inclusion of celebrities into the last half of the book as it seemed like more of an act of fantasy than reality. Geez, who wouldn't want a famous and beautiful actress as a close friend who always picks up the tab and even arranges to sell your screenplay in addition to spending the night with the one actor that catches your fancy?? If you do decide to pick up this book beware of where you read it as I got some really strange looks from others due to the title and cover while reading on the train earlier today!	2002-11-24
US	51343369	R3GIPNUOBEJNRR	0520228693	249977802	The Men and the Boys	Books	5	14	19	N	N	The social construction of masculinity	One of the hottest topics in gender studies today is the study of masculinity and R.W. Connell provides a thorough investigation with \\"The Men and the Boys\\". Feminist explorations of gender in recent decades not only focused on women's concerns and life circumstances but also challenged assumptions about how social structures are constructed by gender. Occuring from these gender explorations is increasing interest in men and the social construction of masculinities. To only conceptualize gender in feminine interests neglects to understand how boys and men are socialized to be masculine which is important to our overall knowledge of how gender operates in society.<br />In \\"The Men and the Boys\\" R.W. Connell conceptualizes how masculinities are socially constructed and how they are fluid within historical, cultural, and social constructs. Masculinities exist outside the individual and are defined collectively in culture and are sustained in social institutions. They came into existence during social interaction and are a product of active construction. There is not one masculinity but rather multiple masculinities which can be diverse within the same social setting. Masculinities are hierarchical with some being more dominant while others are subordinated or marginalized, such as homosexual masculinities. The most honored and desired, although not necessarily the most common, is hegemonic masculinity. Hegemonic masculinity pertains to the image of the professional sports player or rock star that many men aim to be a reflection.<br />R.W. Connell is a pioneer in the study of masculinity, and this book provides a thorough examination of the social construction of masculinity along with social policy recommendations to help alleviate the negative reprecussions of hegemonic masculinity. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in this fascinating new subject area.	2002-11-20
US	51343369	R12UMB6TOL48SR	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Engaging!	\\"Bee Season\\" completely took me by surprise. I was expecting a tale of a girl striving to win a spelling bee competition but this novel is that and a whole lot more. In addition to the obvious, the reader is treated to a glimpse into the crumbling fractions of a Jewish family in the 1980's as their paths continually grow apart from each other. Each member of the Naumann family compelled my interest and kept me wanting to find out more. Eliza's newly found talent for spelling words was fascinating to me especially since I've never been blessed with this talent myself. Aaron's quest to find a religion that fulfills him was interesting even though I've never been that much interested in religion before. Saul's treatment of his children angered me many times as it appeared that the degree of his love was dependent upon their individual scholarly achievements. Lastly, Miriam's strange behavior kept me engrossed as her motives were slowly revealed throughout the novel. I never participated in a speeling bee competition myself, but Goldberg's descriptions were wonderful in their realism and despiration. I found it very interesting how Eliza and Aaron essentially traded positions in their religious and academic pursuits as the book progressed. A thoroughly enjoyable read!	2002-11-16
US	51343369	R39COOMIVL62X0	0816630054	274676322	Third Wave Agenda: Being Feminist, Doing Feminism	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Feminism is not dead (contrary to popular opinion)	What is third wave feminism? Many people have asked this question while others speculate whether a third wave even exists in the first place. The various contributors of &quot;Third Wave Agenda&quot; attempt to answer these questions and more. Third wave feminism aims to incorporate the lessons learned from the second wave while simultaneously adapting to current social contexts. This phenomenon is highlighted by the following quote, &quot;I consider feminism a quest that we continually redefine, rather than a doctrine that seeks to confine me&quot; (p. 136)<br />Third wave feminism includes a departure from essentialism that plagued the second wave. Second wavers spoke of the experience of the woman (read: middle- to upper-class white heterosexual) that excluded many women. Instead, third wave feminism takes a multitude of forms which includes, rather than excludes, the very audience they are advocating for.<br />&quot;Living in McJobdom&quot; by Michelle Sidler was the essay that resonated the most for me. In this essay Sidler argues that the focus of third wave shouldn't be patriarchy but rather capitalism. Although the second wave succeeded in getting more women into the workplace, there is clearly more work to be done. Women continue to earn less and occupy less prestigious jobs than their male counterparts, not to mention the current stagnant economy and dismal job market.<br />Overall this book was insightful, although the editor's writing was unnecessarily dense and thick at times (but they are academics so I'm not surprised). Another good book on third feminism worth checking out is &quot;Manifesta&quot;.	2002-10-23
US	51343369	R3W47UJ2Q8TR0H	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Too much fluff	There's been a tremendous amount of buzz around this book which initially peaked my interest. This book lacks any realism in many aspects. To comes across more as a fairy tale than an event that would actually happen in reality. One of my main desires to read is to emerge myself in lived experiences presented by the author that would otherwise allude me. I wanted to read and understand what it is like to be a hostage, to fear for my life and wonder if I'll ever survive. Rather than focusing on these aspects, this story quickly evolves into a love story between the hostages and terrorists. Plotting avenues of escape never occurred to the hostages. I would think that foreign diplomats and CEOs of multi-national corporations would not become so complacent in their present circumstances. In all honestly I couldn't wait to finish this book.	2002-10-19
US	51343369	R2L5OS66775TDX	0312421036	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not really a ghost story...	The cover of this book originally caught my attention, and the reputation of the author persuaded me to purchase it. I have to disagree with those who have stated that this is a ghost story. This is not a story about creepy goblins and unseen bumps in the night. Rather, this is a story of love and endearment between the living and the dead. The companions have kept watch over Eva throughout her life, although their real intentions have often puzzled her. Are the companions friends or foes? And what are their true identities? <br />I enjoyed this book not only for the plot development but also for the descriptions of Scotland during the first half of the 20th century. A pleasurable, yet quick, read.	2002-10-14
US	51343369	R3RBL7T2HU7GIW	1562801333	937448617	1st Impressions: A Cassidy James Mystery (Cassidy James Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good start...	\\"1st Impressions\\" is the first Cassidy James mystery of eight to date. Overall I enjoyed this introduction and was intrigued with the plot and character development. The mystery itself kept me guessing and the setting makes me want to go out to Oregon for a visit this instant. Despite my first impressions (no pun intended) of this series I was taken back by two points resulting in only four instead of five stars for this review. First, I was dismayed that Cassidy had inherited a large sum of money from the death of a former lover that enabled her to live on that beautiful lake and be a private investigator, a position known to not pay well. This seems unrealistic and mere convenient for the plot and the author. Instead I like more realistic women detectives such as JM Redmann's Micky Knight who is underemployed and poor. My second grumble is with the length of the book along with the others in this series. It's difficult to justify paying regular book price for a mini-book. At mere 200 pages with large type, this book appears to follow in the tradition of other Naiad lesbian mysteries. Sure it's nice sometimes to have a quick read, but I couldn't help to think that Kate Calloway could have expanded the plot and written a \\"normal\\" length book. This will only benefit the series and the readers. Oh well, despite these two faults I recommend this book to others who enjoy a fun mystery.	2002-09-06
US	51343369	R3H1U1FFDYWQA4	1931513104	277503912	Deaths of Jocasta	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Two mysteries rolled into one.	Kudos to JM Redmann for writing another wonderful installment in the Micky Knight series. \\"The Deaths of Jocasta\\" is much more than the case Micky has been hired to investigate. Not only is the reader treated to a well-written mystery and realistic plot, but the dark past of Micky slowly unfolds throughout the book as she gives up alcohol and casual sex. Micky essentially fights her inner battle alone when her closest friends question her ability to remain sober and celibate. She doesn't know if they are friends or foes.<br />Will Micky be able to figure who is behind the threatening letters and shocking deaths of women before she becomes a victim herself? Will Micky be able to become lovers with Cordelia without putting her foot in her mouth? Will Danny reconcile her hurt feelings towards Micky for their failed relationship after college? Read this book yourself to find the answers to these and other questions. You certainly won't regret it!	2002-09-05
US	51343369	R3VK7USIZ5YH1V	1931513058	646678422	Death by the Riverside	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Can a lesbian mystery be this good??	I have yet to read a lesbian mystery that even comes close to the Micky Knight series. Not only is the plot well-written and realistic but the mystery of Micky Knight's life itself is just as compelling. The reader is periodically given glimpses into Micky's past which helps sheds light on her present actions and adds more character depth. By the end of the book I couldn't wait to pick up &quot;The Deaths of Jocasta&quot; (second book in this series) to find out what happened between Micky and Cordelia. All four books in the Micky Knight series can be difficult to find, but it is well worth the time and effort. You will not be disappointed!	2002-09-04
US	51343369	R3NCYUSLRL40U0	0316776467	57822698	Everything You Have Is Mine (Lauren Laurano Mystery)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A good mystery	It's always a gamble to pick up a book by a new (to you) author. This is especially true with lesbian mysteries as I have found that there are alot of hits and misses in this genre. All in all I found this first installment of the Lauren Laurano mystery series to be enjoyable.<br />Lauren's life and her relationship with her partner, Kip, is disrupted when Lauren finds herself obsessed with a new case. Venturing for the first time into cyberspace (an interesting look back at the infancy of the internet) while searching for Lake's rapist and following up leads even when the individuals who employed her are the main suspects Lauren won't stop until she gets answers to the questions that are nagging her.<br />Besides the outdated technology, Scoppettone spends too much time describing the fashions worn by each character. In addition her descriptions of how long time passes (\\"two months later the elevator arrived\\") can get annoying after two or three references. I must admit that these are small flaws I found in this book and I will still continue reading the remainder of the books in this series.	2002-08-20
US	51343369	RQZWPEVDV6YSN	1562800035	834559036	The Price of Salt	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Still relevant today	Although this book was first published in the early 1950's the majority of issues that both Therese and Carol confront are still applicable today. Sure, times have changed and we all want to believe that within the past five decades we, as a society, have become more enlightened about homosexuality but unfortunately there is still more room for improvement.<br />&quot;The Price of Salt&quot; is a moving story about the developing love between Therese and Carol that heightens during a road trip through America. What I was impressed with most was how the author paid little attention to the love scenes and rather focused on the emotions and desires that they shared with each other. Let's face it, most lesbian love scenes in books are less than fulfilling or satisfying and frequently are better left off the manuscript entirely. Also, there was no mention of the word &quot;lesbian&quot; throughout the entire book which is probably accountable to the time period it was written but nonetheless notable and admirable.  <br />Overall, this book is a good read and I would recommend it to others.	2002-08-12
US	51343369	R849FL6DXVMWI	0934678065	11560397	Stoner McTavish (The First Stoner McTavish Mystery) (Stoner Mctavish Mysterie)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another winner!	This is the first in the Stoner McTavish mystery series and is one of my favorite. The dialogue is quirky, the supporting characters are wonderful, and the plot always holds my attention. In this book Stoner travels to the Grand Tetons in Wyoming on assignment to make sure that the man Gwen just married won't put her or her trust fund in danger. Although officially on assignment Stoner soon has a very difficult time putting aside her sexual attraction to Gwen and her utter hatred for Byran. Will Stoner be able to save Gwen from the hands of Bryan or will Stoner blow her cover? <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good mystery and solid writing.	2002-08-05
US	51343369	R17SJVVLLSRXR2	1555835953	553616362	Witchfire: A Connor Hawthorne Mystery (Connor Hawthorne Mysteries)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Lived up to my expectations	\\"Witchfire\\" is the second installment of the Connor Hawthorne mystery series. In this book Connor's beloved grandmother's grave is desecrated in Glastonbury, England in addition to other mysterious killings. Connor, along with Laura (lover), Malcolm (best friend), and Nathaniel (father), fly to England to investigate. All of them get swept up in a tangle of ancient mythology and spirituality that threatens all of their lives and the balance of humanity.<br />Overall, I was pleased with \\"Witchfire\\" and happy to see Connor and Laura (finally) declaring their love for each other. Maddison always does an excellent job establishing the physical presence of the places such as Glastonbury, England (\\"Witchfire\\") and New Mexico (\\"Deceptions\\"). On the other hand, there were plenty of minor editing errors that got annoying real fast. I also got a little tired of how the love between the four characters was constantly over-emphasized. I frequently said to myself, \\"Okay I get it already, they all share a special bond. Let's move on.\\" Although Maddison does a good job integrating the events of \\"Deceptions\\" into \\"Witchfire,\\" I think it might be a benefit to read the first book to fully appreciate the developing plot. I enjoy this series so much that I already pre-ordered the third book which is not due to be published for three months!	2002-07-31
US	51343369	R2B7AN97ZF9H2N	0941483401	537779417	Fatal Reunion (Detective Inspector Carol Ashton Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good quick read	\\"Fatal Reunion\\" is the second installment in the Carol Ashton detective series. The reader is introduced to Christine, Carol's ex-lover who was briefly mentioned at the end of \\"Lessons in Murder.\\" Although Carol is not officially on the case, Christine begs for her to help prove her innocence when her husband is found murdered. But as Carol and Christine become re-acquainted after three years of separation and a bad breakup they both realize that their feelings and desires have not completely disappeared causing significant strains in Carol's new relationship with Sybil. Carol finds herself at a fork in the road concerning which woman she wants. In addition Carol remains in the closet in fear that her lesbian relationships will be revealed and her professional career jeopardized.<br />I enjoyed this book because it provided insights into the character of Carol pertaining to her motivations in her personal life that were absent in \\"Lessons in Murder.\\" The detective work is good but the book itself is a little too thin. This isn't my favorite lesbian detective series but that won't stop me from continuing reading subsequent books in this series. I am anxious to see the relationship between Carol and Sybil progress further.	2002-07-24
US	51343369	R33M2TB6W1ILY1	0941483142	634159176	Lessons in Murder	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good detective work, but what about character development?	First of all, I did enjoy reading this book. Claire McNab's Carol Ashton is a good detective and the mysterious death of a teacher killed by a Black and Decker power drill is a captivating plot. But at the same time I was a little disappointed at what I determined to be a lack of character development for the two main characters: Carol and Sybil. What makes them tick as a human being? What are their fears and ambitions? Maybe this can be attributed to the minimal numbers of pages as more attention was paid to the mystery itself? Who knows. This book(let) is a short one and definately a fast read. Under normal circumstances I don't consider myself to be a fast reader but I finished in two sittings.<br />These flaws won't deter me from reading other books in this series. Actually tonight I'm beginning the second installment and it appears that we get to explore some of Carol's past. Maybe I'll have the opportunity to learn more about Carol aside from her detective skills and lust for Sybil.	2002-07-17
US	51343369	R12KE5NB8RKJAE	0934678073	175482365	Something Shady (The Second Stoner McTavish Mystery) (Stoner McTavish Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable book with realistic characters	In &quot;Something Shady&quot; Stoner McTavish is asked to investigate the mysterious disappearance of Claire Rasmussen, a nurse working at a mental health hospital off the rocky shores of Maine. After Stoner and her lover Gwen get little information through more traditional means Stoner goes undercover as a mental health patient in an effort to discover the truth. But soon afterwards Stoner struggles with the fear that she had gotten herself too involved and might not escape alive. <br />&quot;Something Shady&quot; is my first Stoner McTavish mystery ~ but it certainly won't be my last. I thoroughly enjoyed Stoner's character along with all the others and thought they were witty, intelligent, and multi-dimensional. Unlike some other lesbian mysteries I have read, the characters in this book are realistic and held my attention. At times I was laughing while at others I couldn't put the book down in utter anticipation of what was going to happen next.<br />Kudos to Sarah Dreher for such an entertaining read! I just hope the others in the series will be just as captivating.	2002-07-14
US	51343369	RIK0OA0LF9YDG	1555834906	945964997	Deceptions: A Connor Hawthorne Mystery	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Connor Hawthorne enters the stage...	\\"Deceptions\\" is the first of two Connor Hawthorne mysteries by Lauren Maddison to date. In this installment Connor, a \\"moneyed\\" lesbian who has virtually everything wealth and power can provide, is an ex-DA turned mystery writer living in DC. Her life suddenly comes to a stop when her partner of over 10 years is found stabbed to death in a secluded wooded area. This turns out to be only the first plot twist as Connor soon discovers that her own life is in danger. Believing that her politically-connected father is involved in some manner, Connor fights for life all the way to the New Mexican desert. Along the way Connor meets Laura Nez, a Navajo bodyguard, and the reader is left with the impression that there is a hint of attraction between them.<br />I was thoroughly engrossed in this book from the beginning to the end and found myself disappointed when I had to put it down in order to work, sleep, and eat. Connor appears to struggle with her sexuality in public and remains firmly in the closet. Even the characters in Connor's books are as straight as a ruler. Maddison's characters were multi-faceted and realistic on the most part. I only detected a couple passages of dialogue that didn't fit. In addition, towards the end of the book I got somewhat annoyed when it seemed that every character was struggling with the ghost of their deceased long-term lover.<br />But despite these minor flaws, this book remains a good read. I will definately read \\"Witchfire\\", the second Connor Hawthorne mystery in which I understand the relationship between Connor and Laura continues and develops. Can't wait to see what happens.	2002-07-03
US	51343369	R2XC8JNSXK3QKS	1555835473	698704448	She Came Too Late: An Emma Victor  Mystery (Emma Victor Mysteries)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Had high hopes but was soon left disappointed	I was excited when I first picked up this book. I was looking forward to beginning a new (to me) lesbian detective series and I even made sure that I had the first book in the saga so I can follow the characters in chronological order. Despite my intentions once I started reading my smile soon disappeared and I regretted my choice.<br />This book is written entirely in the first person, which may be fine for others but it is too one-dimensional for me. There were sections of the dialogue that I had to reread several times in order to understand what's happening which I attribute to poor writing. The plot failed to engage my attention about halfway through the book and I found myself laboring painfully to the finish. As the plot became increasingly more mediocre I gave up with only a few chapters to spare and never looked back. Sure the ending is a mystery but I really don't have any interest in knowing what happens to the characters.<br />It appears that the genre of lesbian mysteries is often a hit or miss and I judge this to be a miss. Maybe others will disagree with me but I personally won't pick up the next book in this series. There are too many good mysteries out there I would rather read.	2002-06-27
US	51343369	R3IV3HVPFXMDXT	1562802658	291001600	Substitute for Love	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Search for Tomorrows	In Karin Kallmaker's \\"Substitute for Love\\" the main characters Reyna and Holly both struggle over the dominating influence of male control in their lives which hinders their ability to be the woman they wish they could be. In particular, their ability to live their lives as an out lesbian is shortchanged. While Reyna deals with an overbearing father who blackmails her to work for his ultra-conservative organization Holly is living with a man (her old college professor) who believes he can mold her into a better person by constantly critiquing and criticizing her beliefs, actions, and opinions. As the plot progresses both women begin to come to terms with these negative influences and they desire to break free from the shackles of homophobia and emotional abuse. They both feel isolated and alone until they bump into each other in a movie theatre and become instantly attracted and attached to each other. But how can these two women who are seemingly living in separate worlds make it work beyond a one-night stand? Will they be able to conquer their demons and follow their hearts? Moreover, will they be able to construct a tomorrow that includes both of them?<br />Under normal circumstances I tend not to read romance novels but this one came highly recommended. I was pleasantly taken aback to discover that the plot was not as predictable as I anticipated. There were even a couple of plot turns that took me by surprise. Kallmaker's writing style is engaging and well constructed. This is one of the best lesbian novels I have read thus far. I especially appreciated the character of Murphy and the inclusion of her adverse and unpleasant actions and behavior towards other lesbians. I believe that it is important to demonstrate that not everyone in the lesbian community is altruistic and has good intentions. In college I dealt with a Murphy character myself so I could relate to Tori's frustrations very well. Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone even if they don't normally read romance novels. It was a pleasant diversion from my typical reading agenda.	2002-06-03
US	51343369	R1XX0DB9BF0COY	0813315158	159978042	Ain't No Makin' It: Aspirations And Attainment In A Low-income Neighborhood, Expanded Edition	Books	4	31	39	N	N	A study of the persistance of poverty in a housing project	This book provides a thorough account of the aspirations and expectations of two male peer groups residing in a public housing project. Both peer groups, although originating from similar class locations, have distinct aspirations resulting from their racial lived experiences. The peer group consisting mostly of young black men (The Brothers) supported the achievement ideology that we live in an open society. They viewed the hardships faced by previous generations was a result of racial discrimination barriers that (theoretically) cease to exist. They applied themselves in socially acceptable practices such as excelling in school and keeping out of trouble. In contrast, the peer group consisting of mostly young white men (Hallway Hangers) rejected the achievement ideology and had low aspirations of their position in the labor market. They realized through family and friends that their chances of getting out of the projects is slim leading most of the Hallway Hangers dropped out of school and smoked dope, among other illegal activities. Despite the disjuncture of both groups' levels of aspirations, both failed to get out of poverty. MacLeod hung out with both of these male peer groups in an effort to understand their daily meanings of the role of education and their future aspirations rather than relying exclusively on statistical data.<br />I give this book four stars because MacLeod failed to take into consideration the aspirations and expectations of young women. Instead he concentrated solely on the role of race and class. I would recommend this book to anyone who wishes to understand how societal structures restrict and limit the actions of individuals. Furthermore this book challenges the myth that education creates a level playing field for all regardless of race or class (and gender too ~ although not addressed here).	2002-05-21
US	51343369	R8DHHBPRSMG35	156592858X	820476977	AppleWorks 6: the Missing Manual	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The missing link	I had Appleworks 6 installed on my Powerbook for over a year before I purchased this vital reference tool. The pieces of the puzzle then began to come together after this book arrived in my mailbox. Beforehand I could manage to perform the basic functions but knew instinctively that I was missing the larger picture. What this book has taught me is invaluable. I now have a better understanding of how Appleworks can be tailored to my specific needs. Any Appleworks user unfortunate enough to not own this book risks being left out in the dark.<br />The best part of the book is the coupon located in the back of the book for MacLinkPlus at a reduced price. What a bonus!	2002-05-20
US	51343369	RJ1MGD16X6X72	1573247596	370212824	365 Days of Love	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Allow love to enter into your daily lived experiences	This book of daily affirmations is valuable in the sense that it calls attention to pathways of allowing love to enter into one's life. Although people tend to define love in romantic terms, this book is also about the type of love that one would share with friends, coworkers, and even the woman behind the counter at the grocery store. It is about human love.<br />I was fortunate enough to get this book about six months ago and it has proven to be an asset. It only takes a short time to read the daily passage and reflect upon it, but the benefits continue to reveal themselves. I have even earmarked my favorite passages and frequently return to them even though that peculiar day on the calendar has passed. In today's world of nonstop activity and individualism, it is beneficial to take time out and think about those things that matter the most - the sharing of love with other humans.	2002-05-20
US	51343369	R2AD8Y19F0XPYC	1567511600	454297781	Dying For Growth: Global Inequality and the Health of the Poor	Books	5	16	21	N	N	What's the connection between poverty and health?	This book provides a very thorough examination of how unequal patterns of growth and social inequality on a global scale have resulted in dire consequences for those many unfortunate who cannot afford health care. Many individuals, especially those residing in the United States, are already aware of the growing costs of health care. But imagine what it is like to live in a developing country where medical care is rudimentary at best and you're at the mercy of industrial pollution from the nearby TNC factory?<br />Using health as an indicator of social inequality, the authors examine the connections between poverty and illness. Aggregate statistics depicting the health status on a global scale are improving is debunked. Rather, there is an uneven distribution of health improvements: the wealthy have access to comprehensive medical care while the poor are dying from preventable diseases. Access to resources is restricted, even in the midst of technological advancements in medicine. The goal of this book is to examine how international organizations such as the World Bank, IMF, and WTO along with TNCs influence political and economic structures of nations which in turn affect the accessibility , cost, and quality of health care provided (if any). The central question raised concerns what pattern of growth will benefit those in need the most? How can we redistribute global resources from the powerful few to the many of the world's poor?<br />There is no doubt that the subject matter of this book is very extensive and the book itself is pretty thick, but reading this book will enable one to gain a better understanding of how recent trends in globalization have had devasting effects on the world's population. The authors provide good case studies that illustrate their main arguments. This book continues to serve as a vital reference source for my studies.	2002-05-18
US	51343369	R2F9VMEHK0I9R3	0896086224	158701737	Globalization from Below	Books	5	11	11	N	N	There are alternatives to the status quo	Although globalization is an inevitable force thoughout modernity we can have a voice in how globalization is enacted. As citizens of the global community, we do not have to sit back and be content with the pathway of globalization that is defined by such global organizations as the WTO and the IMF in addition to transnational corporations and the American government.<br />&quot;Globalization from Below&quot; investigates the emergence of the anti-globalization social movement that targets the negative actions and consequences of various institutions and corporations in their effort to increase their profits and power. Unlike other social movements the anti-globalization movement is unique because it consists of a multitude of social agendas ranging anywhere from environmental to labor rights causes. Although they have differential agendas together they strive for the same objective of returning to a democracy of business decisions made by institutions that don't favor the status of the wealthy minority. The true promises of globalization never became realized. Instead social problems are increasingly becoming more intensified. The disparity between the rich and poor grows larger and the environment is under constant attack. Due to the decline of national power many previous hard-fought laws and regulations protecting consumers and workers are being overruled by global treaties and trade agreements. The influence of global capital and unregulated markets puts both humans and the planet in danger. In the midst of the rapid acceleration of globalization within the past century basic human rights often take a back seat.<br />This book is a good introduction to the anti-globalization social movement that continues to gain more momentum as individuals become increasingly aware of the dire and drastic consequences of the current trajectory of globalization. It's a short read but well worth it.	2002-05-18
US	51343369	R2AY7EVD00GIZB	0874778247	811157397	The End of Work:  The Decline of the Global Labor Force and the Dawn of the Post-Market Era	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Does technology create worker freedom or destitution?	Rifkin provided a good historical examination of how technological innovations of automation, corporate reengineering, lean production, and computers have replaced the need for workers at an alarming rate culminating in what he termed &quot;The Third Industrial Revolution&quot;. Every sector and industry has experienced significant trends in unemployment and underemployment. Although virtually every worker has been affected, African-Americans were particularly devastated as they got caught between the machanization of southern agriculture and automation in northern cities resulting in the creation of the underclass. In all, technology has undermined the worker and reconceptualized our notion of the workplace. <br />Solutions to global worker displacement include shorter work week to share the remaining work to all workers. Rifkin also argues for investment in the third sector of volunteerism and social services to combat the rise in crime and violence that is inevitable in a society of large scale employment.<br />Although his historical examination is admirable, his future prophecy of a massive unemployment did not convince me that we are headed to a society run by machines. Alternatively I believe there will always be demand for human labor as machines present their own limitations. Several years ago many proclaimed that dot.com's will put bricks and mortar stores out of business. Despite these claims bricks and mortar stores did not disappear partly because many customers enjoyed the personalibility of social interaction with salespeople and other customers. Doing Christmas shopping over the internet is not a comparable replacement to going to a shopping mall for everyone. In addition, Rifkin never addressed the all important realm of unpaid work that will never diminish as long as there are humans on earth.<br />Overall, this book is a good read although I had trouble with his future predictions.	2001-11-06
US	51343369	R1SN672CLO7O2X	0275970973	656298532	When Baby Boom Women Retire:	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good analysis of baby boom women in retirement	Nancy Dailey focuses exclusively on the economic aspects of upcoming women baby boom retirement in the United States because this is the first generation of women who have spent a majority of their adult years in the labor force. In light of these employment patterns Dailey poses the compelling question &quot;Have baby boom women earned their right to retire?&quot;. Her research findings indicate that the majority of baby boom women will not be financially ready to retire when time arrives. Despite the advancements of women in the labor force, women will remain dependent on the help of others. The inequity of wages between men and women combined with women caregiving responsibities which often entails interruptions in years worked penalize women in retirement. The current Social Security system is predicated on masculine assumptions of long-term stable employment that fails to acknowledge the unique circumstances of working women.<br />Although Dailey presents a good base of statistical research, I believe the weakness of this study is her failure to investigate possible policy recommendations to alleviate disadvantages to women in retirement. At the end of the book Dailey only devotes 3/4 of a page to solutions but there deserves to be more.<br />Overall, this book poses a good analysis of the problem but fails to follow through in policy recommendations. Regardless, it is a good read. This topic is so important. It is too bad this doesn't receive more mainstream media coverage.	2001-10-30
US	51343369	R3M2RRU1YPE7IB	0896086380	303678701	Sweatshop Warriors: Immigrant Women Workers Take On the Global Factory	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A more sinister side of globalization	Miriam Ching Yoon Louie has a literary talent in exposing the ill effects of globalization on poor women of color in the American garment industry. Focusing on Chinese, Korean, and Mexican immigrants she documents how their labor is continuously being exploited without regard to their personal well-being. Transnational corporations seek their labor because it is cheap. It is these women who are the backbones of the forces of globalization and their stories need to be told. An added strength of this book is that the author doesn't just focus on the negative structural aspects but she also includes multiple instances of how these workers create social solidarity and fight for social change in their favor, even when up against the odds. Her personal involvement in these social movements is an added benefit. These poor women of color both produce and reproduce globalization on the local and global scale. It leaves one with the belief that there is hope after all for a fair and just world. This book will make you reevaluate the 'promises' of free trade agreements and economic growth. As one group prospers there is surely another group being disadvantaged. Overall, this book is accessible especially in discussions on the feminization of labor and migration that is not cluttered with jargon. Go ahead and take a gamble. I hope that it will alter your social stance on these important issues as it reinforced mine.	2001-10-28
US	51343369	R389SI9Q091M0G	0679758690	357159729	Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction, and the Meaning of Liberty	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Excellent...should be required reading for all!	I am fortunate to have picked up this book at a local feminist bookstore. This book taught me an abundant amount of information regarding the complex connections between reproduction, gender, and race in the United States. Starting with slavery, the author takes the reader all the way through to the present. Unfortunetly not much has changed since then. Society continues to control the reproduction of black women in order to keep the status quo of white male power structures alive and well. The most difficult chapter for me concerned the eugenics movement and forced sterilization. I knew this occurred but was not aware of how systematic it was. Who knows if doctors really stopped sterilizing black women without their consent in the 1970's as the author stated? I wouldn't be surprized if this practice continues. I had to have a couple drinks to process that chapter.<br />No longer can I hide behind ignorance of these events.	2001-07-30
US	51343369	R2OMWLMPSU5UEE	1576751511	56891139	Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic	Books	3	23	39	N	N	Left unsatisfied at the end...	Overall I thought this book was good. As admitted in the introduction, this book does not contain original research but rather is a complilation of already published research. I was written primarily for Joe 6-pack who has minimal knowledge in this area. <br />Throughout the book they danced around, but never directly addressed, the power of transnational corporations and how they are ultimately behind the disease of affluenza. It began with the 1886 Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad Supreme Court decision which gave corporations the same rights as individuals. Everything has gone downhill since. Thus, in the last section of the book designed to propose solutions to the disease of affluenza I was further let down that they all consisted of things we can do ourselves to alleviate the pain. Why not attack the source rather than try to adjust our coping mechanisms? Even if we, the individuals who read this book, adopt a lifestyle of simplicity as advocated, the root cause and status quo will remain. Our society will continue to be bombarded with consumption messages. Attacking the source means we have to look at the role of the transnational corporation. Corporations are not monolithic; they can (and should be) held accountable for their actions. We cannot do this individually but rather a collective effort needs to be made. Individuals needs to unite across class lines in an effort to make corporations accountable for their negligent business practices. Too bad this very important issue was neglected.	2001-07-24
US	51343369	R2Y1JX4PLX51DM	0805040919	593522550	The Twilight of Common Dreams: Why America Is Wracked by Culture Wars	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Good analysis of the problems with multiculturalism	I applaud this book because it provides a good analysis of how various culture wars has diverted attention away from the TRUE issues of numerous inequalities within existing social power structures. Instead of coming together as a whole, there is a large tendency to fragment into small groups and accuse each other of hearsay. Thus the emergence of hyphenated Americans and separate agendas!! The elites love this because the focus is not on them. They enjoy watching those towards the bottom fighting amongst themselves while they continue to accumulate more wealth and power. We're killing ourselves here! We need to see the commonalties of all our &quot;victimizations&quot; and realize who the true enemy is. Only then is there a chance for social change.	2001-06-25
US	51343369	R2RJZ4BIF01FOU	0399143165	885954525	Toxin	Books	2	0	0	N	N	so so	The plot had too many holes. For example, when the USDA inspector was caught in the record room of the slaughterhouse wouldn't the management in reality at least hide the files she discovered the incriminating evidence  in? Instead they returned the file so that it can be conveniently found  again and stolen by the main character at the end of the book. Not  believable.	1999-05-14
