US	51341528	R2MTPL0WCGHZ6C	085429788X	662652544	The German A7V Tank and the Captured British Mark IV Tanks of World War I (A Foulis military book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Necessary Reference for the A7V	The A7V tank was Germany's not terribly distinguished answer to the British and French tanks of World War I. In fact, it was sufficiently second rate that the Germans frenetically put into service every British Mark IV they could find and repair. Only about 24 A7Vs served in the war; at least one was finished afterwards and served with the Freikorps, but it differed from the war tanks in several important ways. Although several A7Vs survived the war (including one which succumbed to a particularly mindless bout of scrapping at Aberdeen Proving Grounds during WWII), only one original tank remains, 506 Mephisto, captured by Australian forces and preserved in Australia. The German Army several years ago had a replica A7V constructed for their museum at Munsterlager, filling an important gap in their collection of German AFVs.<br />This book, published by Haynes (better known for their excellent series of auto manuals) is an important reference for this unusual vehicle and includes dozens of photographs of the preserved tank Mephisto, contemporary photos, and plans and drawings. The origins of the German tank program are covered, followed by detailed chapters covering the chassis, the armored body, the armament, the numbering of the tanks, and the identification of one from the other (especially helpful because the A7Vs were surprisingly individual). The relatively short operational life of the tanks is then discussed, followed by a useful section on the German use of captured British Mark IV tanks. A final section covers the camouflage and markings of both the A7Vs and the German-operated Mark IVs, and the uniforms worn by their crews.<br />With the recent release of a model of the A7V in 1/72nd scale by Emhar, this book is a vital reference for anyone interested in building an accurate A7V, or for those non-modelers who are curious about the little known German employment of armor in World War I.	2003-07-12
US	51341528	R53OK0XI16O6J	158574607X	599564468	The Forgotten Storm: The Great Tri-state Tornado of 1925	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Truly the Perfect Storm	Although author Wallace Akin describes the Tri-State Tornado as &quot;the forgotten storm,&quot; that title is a bit of a misnomer. Meteorologists and those like myself who are interested in severe weather have never forgotten this tremendous, seemingly unique convulsion of nature. And, having happened in 1925, the Tri-State Tornado is still just within living memory.<br />Akin does a workmanlike job of tracing the path of this enormous tornado and telling the stories of the people and towns affected along the way. He himself is a survivor of the storm although, being two years old at the time, he has no conscious memories of the disaster. His recollections of the aftermath and growing up in the area in the 1920s and 30s are a useful and often moving addition to the book.<br />One place the book is thin is in covering the scientific mystery of this storm. Was it truly one tornado or a family? What caused it to remain so powerful for such a long period? Why does it appear that the tornado was near the front of the storm - a very unusual position? Akin does not discuss these questions in depth, unfortunately, for the Tri-State Tornado is a meteorological puzzle that continues to inspire research and debate (and, of course, the inevitable, if usually unspoken question - was this a &quot;hundred year&quot; storm? A &quot;thousand year&quot; storm? Could it happen again this year, or next?).<br />Another reviewer has argued that Akin has recycled material previously available. This is true (and what author does not recycle material? That is, after all, what research involves), but most of the books that have been published on the Tri-State Tornado have been out of print and hard to obtain for some time. Akin's book is a very readable addition to the literature on this horrible storm.	2003-03-30
US	51341528	R2I8FHGD62TKI	0375415033	698208257	Essays (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	51	56	N	N	Majestic	Building on the new 20 volume Complete Orwell (unaccountably still not available in an American edition), Everyman's Library does Orwell proud with this book, certainly the best single-volume collection of Orwell ever. Not only does it contain all of the major essays and many lesser pieces, it presents all 80 of Orwell's wonderful &quot;As I Please&quot; columns written for &quot;Tribune.&quot;<br />Orwell's range and talent are ably displayed here, from his literary essays, his writings on politics, autobiographical writings (including the harrowing &quot;Such, Such Were the Joys&quot; about his youth spent in a third-rate boarding school), his musings on popular culture (&quot;Boy's Weeklies&quot; and &quot;The Art of Donald McGill&quot; are classics of the genre), and his lighter works (Orwell writes, for example, on how to make the perfect cup of [strong] tea and what his version of the perfect public house would be).<br />Reading this book should also prove a useful antidote for those who have been convinced by the usupation of Orwell by certain right-wing writers that Orwell really was a conservative of some sort. While Orwell deeply loved traditional values and firmly opposed Soviet communism, his hatred of imperialism, capitalism, fascism, the class system and mindless wealth are marked and consistent throughout and we can be assured that he would have written harshly of Margaret Thatcher had he lived long enough to see that era.<br />John Carey contributes a useful introduction; the book includes a good bibliography and a very helpful timeline of Orwell's life correlated to the literary and historical happenings of the era. Like another reviewer here, I miss an index, and running titles at the tops of the pages; I also dislike the way Orwell's footnotes have been shoved rather arbitrarily to the back of the book. Those are minor quibbles; this is a magnificent volume, the perfect gift for anyone who loves Orwell (especially for American readers who haven'thad the chance to buy the Complete Orwell yet) and a timely reminder that liberal values can also be decent, patriotic, and honorable values.	2003-01-18
US	51341528	R32YV29QQ55MQ1	1854095242	961652541	King George V Class Battleships	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Second rate ships, proudly fought	V.E. Tarrant's history of the King George V class battleships is superb and well worth the time of anyone interested in battleships in general, in the naval aspects of WWII, or those who enjoy reading first-hand accounts from veterans.<br />Tarrant is unsparing about the KGVs; built to the restrictions of the Washington treaty (which limited battleships to 35,000 tons full-up displacement and restricted them to 16 inch guns at maximum), they suffer badly in comparison to the US Navy Washington and South Dakota class ships, also built to the treaty restrictions. The selection of 14 inch guns badly limited their hitting power (and faulty turret design was an additional crippling factor in action), their relatively narrow beam compromised their underwater protection systems (fatally in the case of Prince of Wales), and their inefficient engineering plants badly restricted their range. That said, the five ships of the class served nobly and well during WWII, thanks to the men who commanded and manned them so ably.<br />Tarrant opens with a discussion of the design of the ships, including the mini-controversy over their naming. The lead ship was originally to be named King George VI, but the King insisted that the ship be named for his father instead; two later ships were to be HMS Beatty and HMS Jellicoe, but unfortunately the Jutland controversy was still too sore a self-inflicted wound and the remaining ships were named Prince of Wales, Duke of York, Anson, and Howe.<br />The careers of the five ships follow, discussed chronologically. Tarrant covers in fascinating detail the pursuit and sinking of the Bismarck, the Force Z disaster, and the sinking of the Scharnhorst, as well as the more mundane activities of the ships (Anson was so late completing she never had the chance to fire her main battery in anger). Tarrant's analysis of the loss of Prince of Wales and Repulse is especially well done; while being somewhat gentle to the memory of Admiral Phillips and CaptainLeach, who were lost with their ship, he points out how well the captain of Repulse handled her, while poor handling of PoW certainly contributed to her destruction.<br />A great feature of the book is Tarrant's use of first-hand accounts to illuminate the activities of the ships. Ranging from officers to the lower deck, these accounts have been well chosen and give the human factor often missing in books of this type. The reminiscences of Petty Office Bill Batters of HMS Howe are particularly wonderful.<br />As a modeler, I would have liked to see more and more detailed diagrams, but the illustrations are good and the many photographs showing the ships throughout their careers are excellent and useful and often interesting (ammunitioning Duke of York after her encounter with Scharnhorst, for example).<br />All in all, this is one of the best histories of a class of ships I have seen, with only a few typos to watch for. Sadly, the four surviving KGVs were scrapped in the late 50s, but this history remains to give these ships and their brave crews their due.	2003-01-04
US	51341528	RS2QB126WF1PE	0375505423	271998417	Worth the Fighting For: A Memoir	Books	4	32	39	N	N	A great and good American	Senator John McCain's second volume of autobiography covers his career after his return from captivity in North Vietnam through his unfortunately failed bid for the Presidency in the 2000 elections. As he talks about his life and career, he also discusses those who have inspired and taught him, from history (TR, Billy Mitchell), literature (the Robert Jordan character from \\"For Whom the Bell Tolls\\" and Brando's portrayal of Zapata in \\"Viva Zapata\\"), sports (Ted Williams - a great baseball player and a fine Marine pilot in WWII and Korea), and from his own life (late Senators Scoop Jackson, Morris Udall, and John Tower - two of them Democrats, interestingly - among others). These essays mostly stand on their own and are worth the price of admission alone.<br />McCain is honest, sometimes brutally so, about his own failings and errors; his description of the Keating Five affair is thorough and unsparing, as are his admissions of occasional prevarication and displays of temper. He is no less straightforward about his political experiences. While a dedicated conservative and a believer, his contempt for the near-fascist \\"Christian\\" wing of the Republican party is evident, as is his disgust with the treatment former Senator John Tower received when nominated by President George H.W. Bush for the post of Secretary of Defense, a nomination shot down more by far right wingers than by the Democrats. One thing I did miss was his honest appraisal of the current President, but from patriotic motivations McCain may be saving that for later.<br />McCain seems to be suggesting at the end of the book that his public life is nearly over, that his Presidential ambitions are finished. All I can say is that I sincerely hope not. I am a Democrat who would support a McCain run for the Presidency unreservedly. I do not always agree with his views, but I admire his dedication to campaign finance reform, his strength, his candor, his willingness to work with the other side and see them as the loyal opposition rather than as traitors, his courage, and his service to our country. And if McCain never runs for the Presidency, what better final service could he render his country than to lead an effort to return the GOP back to its true core values and rescue it from the clutches of the far right.	2003-01-02
US	51341528	R1EWBW6XEEZ289	0865475822	385567614	American Ground: Unbuilding the World Trade Center	Books	4	25	38	N	N	Around, above, and even below Ground Zero	\\"American Ground\\" is indeed one of the best of the flood of books that have come out since the terrorist outrages of 9/11/01, and William Langewiesche tells his story with eloquent prose and the experience of having been the only journalist allowed unrestricted access to Ground Zero. His description of an expedition underground to locate and examine the remains of the WTC's air conditioning plant is utterly fascinating, a kind of archaeology of ruins. Langewiesche's honesty is refreshing too, and apparently upsetting to the few 1 star reviews you'll see below; no, not everyone at the site was a hero, and while some heroes were dying, some losers were looting (anyone who's worked an airplane crash with the NTSB will tell you that the crash site is thoroughly looted before they arrive - this is unfortunately common \\"human\\" behavior even in the face of tragedy).<br />My one gripe about the book is the fact that what's here is basically what was in his three-part series in the \\"Atlantic Monthly.\\" Considering that Langewiesche was at the site for months, 205 undersized pages seems awfully succinct. I think most readers also would have preferred to pay a few more bucks and have some illustrations included.<br />Langewiesche's final scene of the book has the steel from the WTC being chopped up and dumped into the hold of a rusting ship to be sent oversas as scrap. To send the steel of these buildings to be turned into cans and possibly weapons to be aimed back at us is the ultimate irony. The steel should have been saved, carefully studied (the hurried clearance of the site and ensuing destruction of the evidence has always seemed foolish to me), and then it should have been melted down and gone into an aircraft carrier. THAT should have been the fate of the WTC's superb steel, but once again America sells her heritage for a mess of pottage. Shame.	2002-11-09
US	51341528	R2WHMVEMYU8TFR	0452272742	292467769	Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory	Books	5	26	44	N	N	An important book	I recently reread \\"Denying the Holocaust\\" after reading \\"Lying About Hitler\\" by Richard Evans, who was one of the witnesses for the defense in the libel trial brought by British writer and holocaust denier David Irving against Deborah Lipstadt and her UK publisher Viking Penguin.<br />Lipstadt provides here a valuable, concise, well-documented history of the phenomenon of holocaust denial, which was rooted partly in antisemitism and partly in the original World War I revisionism movement that between the wars attempted to prove that Germany was not responsible for WWI. After World War II, antisemitics, neofascists, and philoGermans gradually came out of the woodwork to peddle their wares cloaked in the guise of revisionist history. They are still active today.<br />The book, which is 9 years old now, could really use an updated edition; it would be interesting to have Lipstadt's reflections on the David Irving trial, recent developments in denial, and, as a few other reviewers here have pointed out, for her to take a critical look at the subject of epidemic holocaust denial in the Arab world. I might add that holocaust denial among Arabs is not just a problem overseas, it unfortunately exists here as well. I work for a publisher that in a merger acquired a book about the holocaust aimed at advanced high school students. The decision was made to backlist the book in spite of the fact that it was at the time only a year old. When I asked why this had happened, I was told that it was to avoid complaints from Arab Americans (the book was eventually transferred to the college book division of our company. I have no idea what they have since done with it).<br />An important book well worth anyone's time.	2002-09-06
US	51341528	R2IFPD8JD3HO01	0465021530	768348685	Lying About Hitler	Books	4	28	45	N	N	A necessary companion to "Denying the Holocaust"	Richard Evans, Professor of Modern History at Cambridge and a specialist in modern German history, was one of the expert witnesses for the defense in the libel trial brought by controversial \\"historian\\" David Irving against Penguin Books and author Deborah Lipstadt over her portrayal of Irving as a Holocaust denier in her book \\"Denying the Holocaust.\\" For those unfamiliar with his work, Irving has long painted himself as an expert in primary Nazi sources and has utilized these sources in a series of bestselling histories of the period of WWII. However, while claiming to be an exponent of what he refers to as \\"Real History,\\" Irving has systematically distorted Nazi documentation and the testimony of witnesses to suggest first that Hitler was not responsible for the Holocaust, and, more recently, that the Holocaust was mostly accidental, the majority of deaths in the camps, according to Irving, being caused by disease. Irving's works and his relationships with other Holocaust deniers was briefly covered in Lipstadt's important book, causing Irving, for reasons of his own, to bring a libel action against Lipstadt and her publisher in an effort to get her book withdrawn from sale in the United Kingdom. To put it mildly, the attempt blew up in Irving's face, and Evans tells the story of his own research and, more briefly, the trial, in this worthwhile book.<br />Called upon by the defense to produce an expert witness brief on Irving's work, Evans wisely began with Irving's first published book, which covered the Allied bombing of Dresden. Irving's supporters claim that his earlier work was untainted by his apparent Nazi sympathies, but Evans was able to prove that even in the mid 1960s Irving was more than willing to distort evidence to suggest that the death toll at Dresden was exponentially greater than the real toll revealed by German records - something around 35,000 rather than the \\"100,000 - 250,000\\" claimed by Irving. His analysis of Irving's later books is even more scathing.<br />Evans' discussion of the trial is brief but both interesting and revealing, particularly when Irving deferentially addresses the judge as \\"Mein Fuhrer,\\" a Freudian slip of truly classic proportions.<br />Disturbingly, Evans also reveals that there are conservative historians who actually still promote Irving as a reputable historian, in spite of the utter demolition of his work and reputation at the trial, one of them being Sir John Keegan. Keegan does not exactly cover himself with glory here, particularly when he dismisses Lipstadt's book as being \\"politically correct,\\" the tired buzzword the right wing  trots out to defame anything they don't agree with. How an historian of Keegan's repute could belittle Lipstadt's book is beyond me and has truly left me doubting Keegan's own agenda. Another supporter of Irving is the historian Donald Cameron Watt, who proclaimed that the only people who would disagree that Irving is a reputable historian are \\"those who identify with the victims of the Holocaust.\\" I would suggest to Professor Cameron and to Keegan that we should all of us, whatever our political views, \\"identify with the victims of the Holocaust.\\" To not identify with the innocent victims of this horror is to deny and belittle historical truth, a truth both of these gentlemen claim to serve.<br />All in all, a necessary sequel to Lipstadt's book and well worth your time.	2002-07-30
US	51341528	R1DMXZJRWEBLVY	0304359823	353403695	History of Warfare: The Wars of the Ancient Greeks	Books	4	80	84	N	N	Great book, great new format	The series of Cassell's History of Warfare, edited by John Keegan, started coming out a couple of years ago in an oversized hardback format encrusted with graphics and large type in the style of the age. Thank God that Cassell has reissued Victor Davis Hanson's excellent contribution in this new compact trade paperback format. Most of the illustrations are gone, the remaining ones are well chosen, and compared with the hardback version I believe that all of the maps have been retained. In addition, the book is really well bound and promises to hold up.<br />Hanson, for those who somehow have missed him until now, is a professor of Classics at California State and also is a part time farmer, both of which have contributed to his writing as a military historian. As a classicist, Hanson is well versed in the sources in their original Greek, and as a farmer he understands how agriculture affected the experience of the Greeks at war. For it was the farmers of the early Greek polis who developed modern western warfare. Unlike other cultures, the Greek farmers couldn't afford to support professional armies or hire mercenaries, and they couldn't spend a great deal of time away from their farms campaigning. The Greek way of war was to gather up the militia, which comprised all the able bodied men of property who could afford the armor and equipment of a hoplite, march out to a convenient flat field to meet the men of the polis they were warring with, and in a matter of hours, get it over with in quick, brutal, decisive battle. Expounded at greater length in Hanson's ground-breaking \\"The Western Way of War,\\" Greek battle is covered well here, from its earliest heroic developments in the Bronze Age, through the classic Greek era of the democratic polis, the Persian and the Peloponnesian Wars, and finishing with Alexander, the misnamed \\"Great.\\" Important battles, including Marathon, Plataea, Delium and Gaugamela, are covered in depth.<br />Anyone interested in the ancient Greeks owes it to themselves to read this and, if possible, \\"The Western Way of War.\\" It is utterly impossible to properly understand Hellenic culture without understanding how and why they fought. I recall with some hilarity the introduction to a book of poems by a well-known feminist writer who proclaimed that America must choose to be either Sparta or Athens, her obvious thesis being \\"Sparta - Warlike! Bad! Athens - Peaceful and Artistic! Good!\\" It's not that simple. Sparta admittedly was fascist, but pretty much stayed at home oppressing the helots, while Athens became a predatory imperialist democracy, bringing tragedy on itself and the Greeks in the process. It's also important to remember, as Hanson points out, that the great artists, writers, and philosphers were warriors at need. It may be hard to imagine Socrates or Aeschylus in the bronze panoply of a hoplite, but it happened.<br />This book is a great value in this format and at this price. It needs to be in the collection of anyone interested in military and/or classical history. And here's hoping that Cassell releases the rest of this series in this format!	2002-06-04
US	51341528	RSZMMNURD6YTJ	0195147413	358659092	The Nelson Touch: The Life and Legend of Horatio Nelson	Books	3	50	51	N	N	A one-sided view of Nelson	Horatio Nelson remains the greatest fighting admiral, bar none, in the history of naval warfare. But you'd never know it from reading journalist Terry Coleman's new book.<br />While Coleman has commendably explored many primary and early sources in building his portrait of Nelson, the result is brutally one-sided. Coleman's Nelson doesn't have the Nelson Touch, he puts the touch on everyone, stealing his tactics and victories and good publicity from everyone in sight. Coleman suggests that Nelson didn't capture the San Josef at Cape St. Vincent, that his victory at the Nile was apparently an accident, that Copenhagen was an illusion, and he wisely says as little as possible about the smashing victory at Trafalgar that both crowned and ended Nelson's career.<br />Coleman is particularly harsh in judging Nelson's behavior at Naples following the victory at the Nile, especially in regards to the execution of Caracciolo and Nelson's treatment of republican refugees after the restoration of the monarchy there. Indeed, this was Nelson's darkest hour. His actions remain so startling that I personally have always suspected that he suffered a brain injury at the Nile that affected his judgment and behavior. Coleman's opinions are fairly well justified by the evidence presented here and elsewhere.<br />Coleman's conclusions about Nelson's relationship with Lady Hamilton also prove to be of interest. He presents good evidence that their sexual relationship began a great deal later than usually suspected. His portrait of Lady Nelson is balanced and compassionate.<br />In his treatment of Nelson's family, Coleman has an absolute field day with Nelson's utterly worthless brother William, a not over-bright churchman who felt that the purpose of his brother's life was to use his influence to get him the best-paying job possible in the Church of England. This is one of the high points of Coleman's work; Nelson's family has usually been slighted in biographies of the admiral, and they were, with the exception of Nelson's likable father, a group of grasping, whining losers.<br />Where Coleman's biography truly falls short is in its emphasis on Nelson's faults. Coleman never fails to point out any of Nelson's human frailties. Nelson was indeed arrogant, self-centered, and sure of himself to an almost hilarious degree. He also was obviously a man deeply admired and loved by many of his contemporaries, and in this entire book you will search almost in vain for the human, charming, likable Nelson, just as you will have a hard time finding the brilliant tactician who was the terror of the Spanish, French, and Danish, the complex man whose religious faith was deep and unbending and who at the same time abandoned his wife. Coleman also enjoys pointing out how many of the officers Nelson promoted never rose above lieutenant; interestingly, he has nothing to say about the successful ones like Hoste.<br />I find it disturbing when an author's research is visibly faulty, as it leaves other portions of the book in question. For example, on page 356 of the hardcover edition, Coleman refers to the San Josef as a \\"fine 80,\\" in other words an 80 gun ship. I am looking right now at the Admiralty draft of the San Josef (fortunately for naval historians the Royal Navy took the lines off of almost every enemy ship they captured), and the San Josef is in fact a three decker 112 gun first rate. Coleman also refers to the \\"only remaining frigates,\\" the USS Constitution and the Constellation. The Constellation is not a frigate, being a sloop built just before the Civil War, and there are at least two British frigates that survive from just after Nelson's time, the Unicorn and the Trincomalee.<br />While Coleman has done a useful service in pointing out some of Nelson's faults, which admittedly many of the more hagiographic biographers have not, this revisionist biography is deeply flawed by its one-dimensional portrayal of a wonderfully complex, imperfect, deeply humanman.	2002-05-30
US	51341528	R30T1AMOJ6UJ8A	0785814132	26204900	Steam, Steel and Shellfire: The Steam Warship, 1815-1905 (Conway's History of the Ship)	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Great book, great price!	Conway's History of the Ship is a very good series indeed, and this is, to my mind, one of the most valuable books in the series because it covers an era in naval history little discussed elsewhere, the years between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the coming of the dreadnought battleship. Fortunately, this great team effort fills the gap. Among the contributors are Andrew Lambert and David K. Brown, both authors of notable works about this period that are not currently in print. The authors cover developments with a focus on the Royal Navy and French Navy, but do not ignore developments elsewhere, and the chapter on the American Civil War will prove a useful introduction to those who may not realize what a crucible of experimentation that conflict proved to be. Other chapters cover the development of paddle warships, the steam-auxiliary ships of the line, warships built of iron, the introduction of steel as the material of choice, and the final pre-Dreadnought era. Given chapters of their own are the development of the torpedo boat, early submarines, naval armament and armor, and a very useful chapter on the varying kinds of steam engines in use during the period. The book is well illustrated with period photographs and illustrations. It would be a useful addition to your naval history library at any price.	2001-10-27
US	51341528	R3BNOVUQ9V1234	0300089678	531499520	The Coldest March: Scott`s Fatal Antarctic Expedition	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Still not exonerated	Susan Solomon has tried very hard in this well-written and documented new book to exonerate Captain Robert Falcon Scott, the leader of the ill-fated Terra Nova expedition to the South Pole in 1911-1912. In recent years Scott has been accused of everything from simple incompetence to real stupidity by critics of his leadership and organization, which Solomon, an NOAA scientist with a distinguished career and Antarctic experience, clearly finds unjustified. By extensively researching not only the original documentation - diaries of Scott and his men, the expedition's meteorological records, information from other Antarctic expeditions of the day such as Shackleton's 1908-1909 try for the pole and Amundsen's successful polar bid of 1911-1912 - but also modern meteorological data, now available for some years along the entirety of Scott's route to the pole (now the course for aircraft bound for the Amundsen-Scott Station), she has tried her level best to suggest that abnormally cold weather was the deciding factor in the loss of the five-man polar party. And indeed cold weather must have been a factor. The poor weather conditions not only would have debilitated the men and caused severe frostbite, the friction of cold snow would have made it almost impossible for the men to pull their sledges more than a few miles a day. Indeed Solomon has charted the progress of the polar party, comparing it with the two supporting parties that turned back short of the pole, and her information does demonstrate how badly slowed up Scott and his four companions were.<br />The trouble remains, however, that while poor weather clearly contributed to the loss of Captain Scott and his men, Scott's own mistakes and poor planning were also a factor, and to her great credit Solomon does not conceal them, just as Scott, an undeniably courageous and honest man, did not conceal them in his own writings. Scott's assiduous copying of Shackleton's mistakes in 1908-09 (the use of ponies, reliance onunproven motor transport), his own short cuts (spending time testing his motor sledges but not clothing, tents, or other gear), and his failures in leadership (taking five men instead of the planned four to the pole) were instrumental, I believe, in his failure to survive the trek. One also must question why, after the blizzard that trapped the men in their tent 11 miles from a depot of food and fuel, the two well men, Dr. Wilson and the redoubtable Lt. Bowers, did not leave Scott, who was crippled by frostbite, and go to the depot for supplies or even, in the finale extremity, leave Scott to die and save themselves, something Solomon herself seems to find as mysterious as others who have pondered the question, although she advances a possible explanation.<br />Overall this is a very good book, the first to take into account modern knowledge of Antarctic weather and apply it to Scott's tragic expedition. Although I don't feel that the author has entirely proved her thesis, it is a valuable and useful contribution to the controversy over Captain Scott's expedition.	2001-10-27
US	51341528	R1Q6FL3X265YSJ	0870216317	921886574	The Ship of the Line, Vol. 1: The Development of the Battlefleet, 1650-1850	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Classic Guide to the Greatest Years of the Royal Navy	Once again a wonderful book about the era of sailing warships has been permitted to slip out of print. Brian Lavery's two volume opus is a fascinating, well-researched guide to, in this volume, the development of the battlefleet from the inception of line of battle tactics to the arrival of steam, and, in volume two, the design and fittings of ships of the line. Lavery focuses on the Royal Navy thanks to the large quantity of surviving references, but touches on foreign developments where appropriate (American readers will especially enjoy an appendix to Volume One consisting of the report of a British naval officer who visited several American shipyards and gives his views on the state of America's small but powerful battlefleet of the early 19th century). Exceptionally well illustrated with period drawings, art, and plans, and printed in a suitably large format, this book and its accompanying volume are necessary additions to the library of anyone interested in the era of fighting sail. Let's hope the Naval Institute gets these back into print some time soon!	2001-08-23
US	51341528	R3QWBQEQKS3X8Q	0806132582	632113974	The Tornado: Nature's Ultimate Windstorm	Books	4	12	14	N	N	An accessible introduction to the subject	Persons interested in tornadoes will recognize Tom Grazulis as the Director of the Tornado Project and author of the massive tornado tome \\"Significant Tornadoes 1680-1991.\\" In this new book, appropriately published by the University of Oklahoma Press, Grazulis discusses the long history of tornadoes in the United States (and, rare for books on the subject, includes a listing of major tornadoes outside the US), covers the process of observation and research that led to today's understanding of these chaotic storms, discusses tornado oddities, tornado safety, and tornado myths (no, that trailer park on the edge of town is not a dangerous tornado attractant). Grazulis is not a particularly stylish writer, but the book is clear and interesting and will serve as a good introduction to both the trail of terror left by these storms and the current state of severe storm research.<br />.... While Grazulis does on occasion refer to himself, it is not excessive and provides his own view of events and personalities in the field.<br />My only disagreement with Grazulis is his soft-pedaling of the state of government funding into severe storm research and warning systems. While he comments mildly that the government just can't fund everything (which of course is true), I would observe that there always seems to be money for congressional porkbarrel, like the mysterious ordering every year of C-130 aircraft that the Air Force didn't want but which were built in a certain well-known former House Speaker's district at the same time that Weather Service offices were being closed and research money drying up. As one who lives in a NEXRAD \\"hole\\" (a city that is well below the horizon of the nearest WSR-88D radars and hence in danger of being struck unexpectedly by tornadoes), I tend to object more than mildly to this kind of thing, and Grazulis should as well.<br />If you find this book interesting, check at your local library for a copy of Grazulis' \\"Significant Tornadoes.\\" It is hugeand fascinating.	2001-08-20
US	51341528	R18YPJPDFGWNOA	1557503877	424629925	Hms Victory: Her Construction, Career, and Restoration	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The great ship saved	Alan McGowan, Chairman of the Victory Advisory Technical Committee, and Canadian illustrator John McKay have produced a truly wonderful book about the greatest of sailing warships, HMS Victory, which serves not only as a tribute to the ship and the men who sailed her, but also to those who saved and restored her to her present grace. Unlike USS Constitution, which truly is a corpse of a once beautiful frigate, a ghost of her lovely War of 1812 self, Victory has been returned to her precise appearance at her moment of greatest fame, October 21, 1805, the Battle of Trafalgar.<br />The first half of the book goes into startling, fascinating detail about the condition of Victory and the many years since her permanent drydocking in 1922 spent repairing and restoring her. The battle against dry and wet rot, death watch beetle infestations, and the odd German bomb (a bomb fell into Victory's drydock in 1941 - by some miracle she didn't catch fire, which would have destroyed her utterly) has gone on more or less continuously, and it is interesting to read how the restorers have learned from earlier mistakes (new repair work has sometimes rotted within a few years) and adopted new techniques and materials. While she appears very authentic, there have had to be compromises, cleverly disguised, and these are described by McGowan - emergency escape doors carefully camouflaged in the hull, her rigging replaced with polypropylene rope, her heavy wooden spars replaced with steel, her wrought-iron lower masts (themselves borrowed from the armored frigate HMS Shah in the 1880s) fastened through her keel into the floor of the dock to relieve the pressure on her 240 year old hull.<br />In the second half of the book, artist John McKay contributes a series of magnificent drawings showing Victory in her Trafalgar configuration, with details of rigging, armament, interior layouts, etc. This portfolio of illustrations will provide almost all the reference needed for anyone interested in building a model of HMS Victory in her prime.<br />I cannot recommend this book more highly to anyone interested in sailing warships in general and HMS Victory in particular. I don't give many books five stars, but this one deserves every one.	2001-08-02
US	51341528	R1T2F8U51CTX4Z	0071364471	370006843	The Last Log of the Titanic: What Really Happened on the Doomed Ship's Bridge?	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An exceptionally interesting analysis	Relying on his own experience of ships, David G. Brown has attempted both to reconstruct the last few pages of the Titanic's log and also to closely analyse the happenings of that night. His interpretation of the impact as being more akin to a grounding has the advantage of closely matching the actual observations of the persons on board that night, much more so than the &quot;grazing collision&quot; described universally elsewhere. Several years ago Walter Lord pointed out in his &quot;The Night Lives On&quot; that there was apparently lethal damage to the bottom of the ship, and Brown's analysis confirms this. Brown also usefully describes how ships actually handle and points out that First Officer Murdoch, just as he told Captain Smith immediately after the crash, tried to &quot;port around&quot; the berg - first putting on starboard helm to turn the bow away from the berg, then port helm to clear the ship's midsection and stern, explaining succinctly why the damage to the ship was limited to the first 200-300 feet. Brown also theorizes on the actual visibility from the crow's nest that night and suggests that the berg may have been sighted as a &quot;dark mass&quot; looming in the distance several minutes before it was seen to be an iceberg and suggests that First Officer Murdoch may have mistaken the &quot;dark mass&quot; for a safe path through ice. One suggestion Brown makes that I tend to disagree with is his contention that the Titanic had been manuevering through ice for some time before the impact. Even a gentle turn in a ship the size of the Titanic will cause the ship to heel noticably, particularly in a ship, like the Titanic, that lacks stabilizers. Passengers should have noticed the ship manuevering instead of maintaining a straight course, but there appears to be absolutely no testimony from anyone that night that the ship was doing anything other than steaming straight ahead. That, however, is a minor issue; this book is extremely interesting, a very valuable contribution to the literature on the subject, and I recommend it highly.	2001-05-28
US	51341528	R1YP0441GWJZGT	0870219863	876974117	Warrior: The World's First Ironclad Then and Now	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great ship saved	Escaping more or less by accident from the scrap-o-rama that decimated the historic Royal Navy in the latter 50 years of the 20th century, HMS Warrior, the world's first true ironclad battleship, has recently been restored and has joined HMS Victory in Portsmouth as a jewel of Royal Navy history. Andrew Lambert discusses in this excellent book how the ship was designed, how she was (accidentally) preserved by being used as a jetty at a Royal Navy fueling facility (!), and how several years of hard work in Hartlepool restored her to her original grace. The book is exceptionally well illustrated with period and modern photographs, as well as line drawings and plans, and will appeal to anyone interested in a generally overlooked period of naval history, when sail and wood were giving way to steam and steel.	2001-04-24
US	51341528	R3ODE4QH4VQTRL	0870210904	181719241	Battleships in Transition: The Creation of the Steam Battlefleet, 1815-1860	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The end of the wooden battlefleet	It's a shame that this highly interesting book has been permitted to go out of print, particularly as the era it describes is one widely ignored by naval historians. At the end of the Napoleonic Wars, it rapidly became evident that steam was going to supplement and eventually replace sail as the motive power of future navies. Lambert describes in fascinating detail the efforts of the Royal Navy to make the transition, first by equipping older ships with auxiliary steam engines, then by purpose-designing wooden battleships to be fitted with engines from the start. For a short period, these massive, dignified-looking ships with their retractable funnels, hoisting screws, and enormous, often badly-stressed wooden hulls ruled the seas. Lambert's research into the original sources is comprehensive and his discoveries often clash with accepted wisdom; it's Lambert's opinion that explosive shells did not doom the wooden fleet, but the lesser-known and extremely deadly Martin's molten iron shell, which was essentially a hollow cannon ball filled with molten iron and an understandably effective incendiary. The molten iron shell and the fact that wood had reached (and passed) its limit as a structural material ended the wooden steam battleship; when HMS Warrior appeared on the scene, the wooden ships vanished rapidly into harbor service and the breaker's yards. Lambert covers this period well and if you can find this book it's a great addition to your naval history collection.	2001-04-24
US	51341528	RFFBRMWWV3AB4	155750749X	763429357	Bold Endeavors : Lessons from Polar and Space Exploration	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Forward looking reseach that looks back	Dr. Jack Stuster's &quot;Bold Endeavors&quot; distills a considerable amount of careful research into a book that is much more interesting than the usual dry study of this nature. By collecting data from a number of disparate sources, including Shackleton's 1914 Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition, Thor Heyerdahl's &quot;Ra&quot; voyage, years of military experience at bases in the Antarctic, and even undersea habitat experiments, Dr. Stuster has produced an exceptionally well thought out series of suggestions applicable not only to expeditions on Earth, but to future Moon settlements and Mars expeditions as well, assuming these ever happen (I would prefer to be more optimistic and I know Dr. Stuster is, but the current trend is not promising). In fact, this book has become required reading among the astronauts, who have recognized its value.<br />The book is organized into chapters that deal with a particular facet of human behavior as it applies to expedition settings, such as personnel selection, personal space, group interaction and the like. Dr. Stuster carefully illustrates each chapter's point with well-selected vignettes from previous expedition experience. For example, he discusses in-depth the importance of leadership by comparing and contrasting the successes of Shackleton, Admiral Byrd, Thor Heyerdahl and others to a particularly good example of a poor leader, Lt. Charles Wilkes, the commander of the somewhat fraught 1838-1842 US Navy expedition, noted only for discovering imaginary territory and the endless conflicts between Wilkes and the unfortunate men under his command. It is worth noting that while Wilkes' first reaction to leadership was to hoist a distinguishing pennant and basically promote himself to acting Commodore as soon as he was out of sight of land, Shackleton, Byrd, and Heyerdahl, though obviously in charge, led their men in as egalitarian and considerate a manner as possible. Stuster also points out the importance of little things in keeping an expedition's morale high - shared meals, opportunities for privacy, a good viewing window on a space station.<br />By including and discussing negative as well as positive expedition experiences Dr. Stuster has produced a very valuable book that will not only be of interest to our astronauts and persons planning expeditions here on Earth (read Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; for a recent example of bad expedition planning and personnel selection), but also to the general reader and even writers of fiction and science fiction dealing with small groups in dangerous situations.	2001-04-15
US	51341528	R2EZ2BXFZJL3OQ	087021795X	251369906	With the Battlecruisers (Classics of Naval Literature)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	&quot;that terrible fellow Filson Young&quot;	This is one of the Naval Institute's great &quot;Classics of Naval Literature&quot; series. Filson Young was a British journalist who before World War One had briefly spent time aboard Admiral Sir David Beatty's flagship HMS Lion and who, when war came in 1914, decided that he wanted to serve with Beatty, a man who attracted hero-worship in much the same way as Nelson. Fortunately for Young, he knew Admiral Sir John Fisher, the remarkable architect of the dreadnought fleet, well and when Fisher, reappointed to the Admiralty as First Sea Lord, sent him a letter (&quot;I am exceeding busy scrapping parasites&quot; Fisher wrote, typically), Young promptly went to London to see him. Young wrangled a commission in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve as a lieutenant, and with Fisher's connivance, was assigned to Beatty's flagship, partly, one suspects, because Fisher wanted publicity for the Navy, and partly so Fisher could keep an eye on Beatty (to his credit Young promptly told Beatty that Fisher had asked him to write often and Beatty made use of Young as a conduit of information directly to the Admiralty). Beatty appears not to have been entirely pleased to have Young around (&quot;...that terrible fellow Filson Young has worked his way and he has been appointed to the Lion for special service&quot; the admiral wrote his wife), but appears to have found him an agreeable addition to his staff. Young's portraits of life aboard the battlecruisers are often wonderful; his chapter &quot;Days With the Fleet&quot; brings back to life a thoroughly lost era. As a non-sailor his observations are particularly valuable because he discusses things sailors would take for granted. Young fortunately served at the Battle of Dogger Bank; unfortunately he was out of the Navy before Jutland and so we have lost a useful witness to that greatest of naval battles. &quot;With the Battle Cruisers&quot; is edited by James Goldrick, who contributes a forward and valuable notes. Anyone interestedin the naval history of the First World War will find this a necessary addition to their collection.	2001-04-04
US	51341528	RHCJOLUR2TOLV	1859606040	799930079	Chasing the Title: Fifty Years of Formula 1	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A collection of brilliant portraits	Nigel Roebuck, one of the finest journalists to cover motorsport in general and Formula One in particular, presents in this book  a wonderful series of sharp vignettes covering the entire period of the modern World Championship. Roebuck begins at Imola in 1994, when, as he puts it aptly, &quot;everything changed&quot; with the tragic death of Ayrton Senna and the introduction of knee-jerk &quot;safety&quot; improvements which have led only to boring racing and have not, as we learned earlier this season, prevented what are, given the nature of the sport, inevitable tragedies. Hard as it is to believe, the &quot;turbo years&quot; of the late 70s and 80s are beginning to look suspiciously like a final golden age, which they certainly weren't at the time, but, given the emasculation of tracks, over-dominance by a few teams, and drivers who do not understand the history of the sport and drive like they're the only man on the track, they're beginning to look pretty good in retrospect. But I digress. Between the covers of this book you'll find incisive portraits of several great drivers (among them Phil Hill, Piers Courage, James Hunt, Ayrton Senna, and Jochen Rindt), car owners (the great Rob Walker, who long after his car-owning days were over wrote wonderful F1 journalism for Road &amp; Track when R&amp;T was still a great magazine), and others associated with the F1 scene (journalist Denis Jenkinson, F1's official doctor Professor Sid Watkins, and current F1 boss Bernie Ecclestone). He also writes of several races - the great slipstreaming duel at Monza in 1971, the first win for Renault in 1979, Dallas 1984 which ended with Nigel Mansell trying to push his car over the finish line in the blazing heat. As an added incentive, there are sections of black and white and color photographs. More and more nonfiction books seem to be doing away with illustrations, and with F1 being the visual spectacle that it is, we can be glad that Roebuck and his publisher resisted this new and unfortunate trend. Turn to the section of color plates and feast your eyes on the first photograph - Fangio in the Maserati 250F at Monaco in 1957. The greatest driver, the greatest car, the greatest race; one picture says it all. Highly recommended to anyone interested in Formula One.	2001-03-18
US	51341528	ROW8WRT622EOU	1854104373	624731136	A Thirst for Glory: Life of Admiral Sir Sidney Smith	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Brilliant but unlovable - Admiral Sir Sidney Smith	Having enjoyed Pocock's biographies of Nelson and his history of the Seven Years War, I was a little disappointed by this book, but it's likely not Pocock's fault; it's the material. On the surface, Admiral Sir Sidney Smith had as spectacular a career as any during the Napoleonic Wars, climaxing with his brilliant defense of Acre against Napoleon's army of Egypt. Looking closer, it's obvious that his contemporaries thought he was a total ass. Now Nelson and Cochrane both had faults, but they also had redeeming factors: Nelson was not only the greatest fighting admiral who ever lived but he was obviously personally likable and his contemporaries have left no end of favorable memories of him for history's perusal. Cochrane could be impossible to authority, but he was, like Nelson, a brilliant fighting officer and possessed of a slightly wacky charm. Smith, on the other hand, was a brave man, a fine fighting sailor and soldier, and an astute diplomat, but he was also absolutely full of himself, and his contemporaries never forgave him for it. The result is that this biography, while full of incident, adventure, and history, is also somewhat toneless. Anyone interested in the Royal Navy during the Napoleonic Wars will find this book valuable, but it may not be as appealing to the general reader as some of Pocock's other books.	2001-02-06
US	51341528	RIMDKGXXB02NL	0805065741	263945445	Inside the Hurricane: Face to Face with Nature's Deadliest Storms	Books	4	7	7	N	N	&quot;Good science done by brave men on a puny budget&quot;	Pete Davies spent the 1999 hurricane season with the scientists of the National Hurricane Center in Miami as they studied a series of fascinating and intense hurricanes and struggled with budget limitations that are, in these times of surplus, increasingly inane and unforgivable. Davies' writing is vivid and gripping; his descriptions of the devastation of Hurricane Mitch and the experience of people in the midst of the storm are absolutely unforgettable. Davies also flew missions with the NOAA's P-3 hurricane hunter aircraft and gives a good feel for the combination of raw excitement, pure terror, and occasional boredom of these epic flights. One thing missing from the book were any charts, maps, or diagrams; an appendix containing the Saffir-Simpson scale would have been nice. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in hurricanes, which should be anyone who lives in the United States. Even if your state is out of the reach of hurricane damage (and few actually are), the devastation caused by these vast and increasingly dangerous storms can cause economic disaster and human suffering on a scale not exceeded by any other natural disaster. And after reading, contact your congressional representatives and express to them your dismay that funding for important research remains at pittance levels. Too often Americans brainlessly run around chanting &quot;We're Number One!&quot; when what is really needed is a good long look at how money is spent in this country and who truly benefits from government funding.	2001-02-04
US	51341528	R2Z23SL0OJJ0HT	1557504180	379601292	The 100-Gun Ship Victory (Anatomy of the Ship)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A great book on a great ship	John McKay's book is well up to the very high standard set by the &quot;Anatomy of the Ship&quot; series and covers HMS Victory in fantastic detail. Anyone interested in the ship (or other sailing warships of the period, which would be similar in detail) and especially anyone interested in building a model of the Victory should add this book to their collection. My one disappointment with McKay is that he didn't include any drawings and only one illustration showing HMS Victory in her pre-1801 condition with her original elaborate figurehead and open stern galleries; the book entirely focuses on her appearance at Trafalgar - admittedly her most famous battle but she was also Sir John Jervis's flagship at the Battle of Cape St. Vincent and it would have been useful to have more data on her pre-reconstruction configuration. Another book well worth having on the Victory is C. Nepean Longridge's &quot;The Anatomy of Nelson's Ships,&quot; which I also highly recommend.	2001-01-30
US	51341528	R39AQOX5D3545R	0395984157	594606210	Ships of Discovery and Exploration	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A good book with an inexplicable omission	This is a well-written and researched guide to a number of the famous ships of exploration, from Cook's ships to some that are exploring currently. Fans of Antarctic exploration in particular will be pleased to see Scott's Terra Nova, Shackleton's Nimrod and Endurance, Charcot's Pourquoi-Pas?, Amundsen's Fram, and other great ships of the Antarctic included, with rare photographs and descriptions of their entire career. Causing the book to lose one star, in my ratings estimation, is the inexplicable absence of the Aurora, the ship used in the 1912 expedition of Douglas Mawson and later as the Ross Sea supporting ship for the 1914 Shackleton expedition. Other than that, a worthwhile addition to the library of anyone interested in exploration, adventure, and great ships.	2000-12-24
US	51341528	R24VKGJHQNMGWH	0393050041	749749104	The Race to the White Continent: Voyages to the Antarctic	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Two great expeditions and one laughable one	This is Alan Gurney's second book on Antarctic exploration. His first, &quot;Below the Convergence,&quot; covered the early era of Antarctic voyaging, up to the beginning of the 19th century. This book starts with a look at Pacific and Australian explorations to set the scene and bridge the gap, then pulls in to focus on two great Antarctic expeditions of the 1840s, and a third that was less impressive. The great expeditions were the French Navy expedition led by Dumont d'Urville in the Astrolabe and Zelee and the classic Royal Navy explorations of James Clark Ross with HMS Erebus and HMS Terror. These two men and their crews of seamen and scientists were the first to begin to make Antarctica a real place, rather than a realm of conjecture, and the names of the ships, the men, and their families remain scattered around the Antarctic to this day, fastened to their discoveries - Adelie Land, the Ross Ice Shelf, Mt. Erebus, McMurdo Sound, to name only a few. Gurney ably tells the tales of these expeditions, from their inception to their return, and the sad fate of their leaders - d'Urville killed in a railway wreck with his wife and son, Ross dead before his time, probably of drink, after the early death of his wife and his unsuccessful search for the lost Franklin expedition in the Arctic. The third expedition is the US Navy expedition led by Lt. Charles Wilkes in USS Vincennes, and if anything Gurney is too kind to this somewhat fraught endeavor. Wilkes, who promptly promoted himself commodore and hoisted a distinguishing pennant as soon as he was out of reach of US Navy authority, treated both his officers and the scientists assigned to the expedition like dirt, discovered a vast amount of entirely imaginary territory, and was courtmartialed on his return (but unfortunately remained in the Navy to commit numerous stupidities during the Civil War). All in all, good reading for anyone interested in Antarctic exploration, and one wonders if Gurney will go for a trilogywith a third book about the Heroic Era of Antarctic exploration.	2000-10-23
US	51341528	R3G20R4Z97XX6Q	039304792X	444915533	Orwell: Wintry Conscience of a Generation	Books	4	32	35	N	N	An interesting if short Orwell biography	Jeffrey Meyers' new biography of George Orwell, the brilliant British Socialist writer, is worth reading if short. Meyers does a more than adequate job of chronicling Orwell's varied and sometimes sad life, his personal relationships, and his books and major essays. An odd feature of the book is Meyers' meticulous description of photographs he doesn't include; several of the Orwell photographs he describes have never, to my knowledge, been reproduced elsewhere and might have been interesting in place of the often-reprinted shots featured in the book. It makes me wonder, in fact, if Meyers wanted to print more photographs and the publisher refused. All in all this is a decent, eminently readable biography and should prove a good introduction to Orwell's life. Orwell was, in my view, the finest essayist in the English language in the last century and probably within the last two centuries, and remains the conscience of his time and even of ours. In an age that prides itself on &quot;I've got mine, to hell with you&quot; (to paraphrase Sir Richard Rees, Orwell's friend, writing about Orwell), Orwell remains a staunch defender of a currently unpopular Socialist ideal that calls on all of us to care for one another and strive together to achieve for society what we selfishly and greedily grasp for ourselves now. Readers interested in knowing more about Orwell should also read Michael Shelden's &quot;Orwell,&quot; which is more detailed and comprehensive (although it should be noted that Meyers includes some new information of his own) and Bernard Crick's &quot;George Orwell: A Life&quot; which some have discredited but which remains a incisive look at Orwell's works and his politics.	2000-10-13
US	51341528	R27IZGDFUM985U	0671011693	104166566	Battlestar Galactica: Armageddon	Books	1	13	30	N	N	Have any of the reviewers SEEN Battlestar Galactica?	I have to admit being stunned at the plethora of 4 and 5 star reviews for  this cretinous mess of a novel. Have any of you ever WATCHED Battlestar  Galactica? To paraphrase a line from Lloyd Bentsen, I've watched Battlestar  Galactica, and this is NOT Battlestar Galactica. Hatch has produced a book  that aggrandizes his character at the expense of all the others, and in  addition is riddled with stupid mistakes of fact (Rigel a man, Omega  elderly, etc etc etc), spelling errors (he can't even spell  &quot;felgercarb,&quot; for sagan's sake!), and various irritants including  his horrible racist &quot;only the pure blood of Kobol can rule&quot;  concept. Richard is a pathetic man trying desperately to revive a failed  acting career. Go watch the series and don't buy this piece of trash; it  will only encourage him further.	2000-09-09
US	51341528	R24WPBZBNA9CVK	1574882422	85322316	A Mind in Prison: The Memoir of a Son and Soldier of the Third Reich	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A glimpse into the Third Reich	Dr. Bruno Manz has written an honest, searing story of his experiences  growing up in the Third Reich with a father who he loved but who was an  enthusiastic Nazi. First person accounts of this quality are rare and  valuable, giving those of us who are curious as to how a civilized nation  like Germany could turn itself into the soulless, mechanistic killing  machine it became under Hitler a look at how ordinary people contributed,  by omission or commission, to the coming horror. Dr. Manz has more than  atoned for his own omissions by writing this excellent, gripping book,  which I recommend to anyone interested in this perplexing episode of  history.	2000-09-05
US	51341528	RG6I5ZMPOL869	0375503382	861292414	The Secret Parts of Fortune: Three Decades of Intense Investigations and Edgy Enthusiasms	Books	5	24	25	N	N	America's best living essayist	I have to confess being unfamiliar with Ron Rosenbaum until reading his  excellent, perceptive book &quot;Explaining Hitler.&quot; What a pleasure,  then, that he has followed that book up with this collection of his  magazine work extending over the past three decades. The essays collected  here are a mixed bag showing Rosenbaum's extensive range, from amusing  short pieces to long works in depth. Some personal favorites include his  early exploration of the world of phone phreaks (in which Rosenbaum  predicted, correctly, that computer hacking was the wave of the future -  this in 1971!), his exposure of the Henry Lee Lucas serial killer hoax, his  slightly crazed looks at TV culture via the war over canned laughter and  the eminence of Mr. Whipple in toilet paper advertising, a short but  incredibly horrible glimpse of early 60s teen film star Troy Donahue  debauched and decrepit in the early 70s, his explorations into the world of  the Kennedy assassination mythos, a brief, horrified look at Bill Gates'  house, and his wonderful exposure of Yale's weird Skull and Bones  fraternity. Every piece is well worth your time and several are worthy of  close rereading. Rosenbaum is a fine writer, improving continuously as this  collection shows (and he started at a very high level), and I'll be looking  for his magazine pieces from now on.	2000-09-05
US	51341528	R3AAMN2F3VBK1N	0140441271	411034175	The Letters of the Younger Pliny (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	54	55	N	N	A wonderful glimpse into Imperial Rome	This is a great edition of the collected letters of Pliny the Younger, ably translated and introduced by Betty Radice who for many years was the  editor of the Penguin Classics. While many readers will immediately look  for Pliny's most famous letters, i.e. his description of the eruption of  Vesuvius, written for his friend Tacitus, and his letter to the Emperor  Trajan asking for an opinion on how to deal with those troublesome  Christians, there's a great deal more here, including Pliny writing on  ghosts, talking about Roman politics and law, and just chatting to his  friends. Especially interesting is the final section of letters which Pliny  wrote to the Emperor Trajan when Pliny was the emperor's representative in  Pontus and Bithynia. Pliny's obsequious tone is quite different from his  personal letters, and I can almost picture Trajan rolling his eyes when his  secretary arrived with another of Pliny's overly deferential missives.  Overall there's a lot to enjoy here; not only do we obtain a unique glimpse  into the workings of the Roman Empire at its height under one of its best  emperors, but we also get more of a feel for Pliny than we do for Cicero in  his equally famous but often less personable letters.	2000-08-16
US	51341528	R39184I36YXOZJ	0786863609	629385471	A Plague of Frogs : The Horrifying True Story	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Read this, then act on it.	Contrary to the claims of Dennis Avery in his posted review, even the  scientists who discovered that parasite infestations do cause some frog  deformities do not claim that parasites cause all the deformities or that  they cause all types of observed deformities. This book is well written and  absolutely terrifying; its only real fault is lack of an index. Souder is  familiar with his topic and the people involved and has written a clear,  compelling account of this scientific mystery. Unfortunately, people with  well-established biases will continue to ignore the message nature is  sending us; that humanity has become an absolute plague on the face of the  earth. We can no longer continue to breed like a virus and expect earth to  recover from our insults. Frog deformities and massive drops in amphibian  species worldwide are just the tip of the coming iceberg that will sink our  civilization like the Titanic unless we sit up and take notice. Read this  book, think about it, and for your children and grandchildren's sake, do  something about it.	2000-08-15
US	51341528	R1VJQEYH17BHNT	0764531964	541535829	Hip Pocket Guide to HTML 4	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Right here on my desk	This is an exceptionally useful reference to HTML 4 that I keep on my desk  for looking things up as I work on my web sites. It's also a book I  recommended highly to customers when I sold computer books in a previous  job. If you're somewhat familiar with HTML, this is a perfect reference,  and has the advantage of being comb bound so it doesn't snap shut while  you're using it. If you want a book with which to learn HTML, this isn't it  (Elizabeth Castro's &quot;HTML 4 Visual Quickstart Guide&quot; is), but if  you use HTML daily, this is a necessary book to have and keep handy.	2000-08-11
US	51341528	RNETXR6S7GKNG	0786400412	514540022	Science Fiction Television Series: Episode Guides, Histories, and Casts and Credits for 62 Prime Time Shows, 1959 Through 1989	Books	5	8	9	N	N	If you're a fan, save up and get this	It's past time that someone put some thought and effort into a book of  this nature. We've had &quot;Science Fiction TV&quot; guides before, and  they've uniformly been written by authors whose axes could be heard  grinding away throughout as they slagged shows they disliked and drooled  over shows they (often unaccountably) were fans of. Mark Phillips and Frank  Garcia have done a good job of research and writing here, with few and  minor mistakes. The chapter on &quot;Battlestar Galactica,&quot; which is  accurate and contains a good deal of information, much of it from new  interviews done especially for this book, is worth the price of admission  alone. If you're a fan of science fiction on TV, this book, in spite of its  price, should be on your bookshelf. Very highly recommended.	2000-08-11
US	51341528	R1PGF5EW3UGWDE	0688139558	436249745	Ghosts of the Titanic	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Pellegrino returns to the Titanic	Charles Pellegrino's earlier book about the Titanic, &quot;Her Name, Titanic,&quot; remains one of the better books on the subject. Instead of rewriting that book, Pellegrino chose to write what he suspects will be the  second book of a Titanic trilogy (with a third volume planned for 10 to 12  years hence). Pellegrino has the advantage of knowing almost everyone  involved in the discovery of and expeditions to the Titanic, including  Robert Ballard and George Tulloch, formerly of Titanic International, and  he actually accompanied the 1996 expedition. He also is close to Walter  Lord and has interviewed a number of Titanic survivors. This puts  Pellegrino in a particularly useful position to portray the Titanic  disaster in 3 dimensions while banging no particular drum. Pellegrino is  also something of a polymath. He's interested in everything, as readers of  his previous books can attest. He's probably the closest thing going to  Isaac Asimov since the late Dr. A passed away. Given this, there are some  real irritants here. I'd like to see all of Pellegrino's quotations and  information cited. At the very least I'd like his assurance that none of  the dialogue, particularly dialogue supposed to have taken place aboard the  Titanic, is invented. It's also startling to see him consistently  misspelling the name of Lord Mersey, the jurist in charge of the British  inquiry, and of the Leyland Line, owners of the Californian, throughout the  book. I find it a little difficult to believe that Pellegrino apparently  buys into James Cameron's line that the ship would have been even more  badly damaged had it hit the iceberg headon. Frankly, I can't think of a  case in which the rammer came off worse than the rammee. Also, Pellegrino's  interest in everything occasionally detracts as he flits from subject to  subject without, sometimes, completing his original thought. But these are  minor irritants, and I only mention them with the hope that Pellegrino will  see them andmake corrections in future editions. This book is extremely  valuable and brings absolutely new information to the public attention.  Especially useful is Pellegrino's careful forensic analysis of the  Californian controversy, and his similar treatment of the iceberg sighting.  According to this new information, the iceberg was sighted when so close to  the Titanic that the ship actually collided with it almost as soon as the  officers began to react, rendering unimportant earlier arguments about the  size of the ship's rudder. Also very interesting are the results of studies  into the rusticle formations that are speedily consuming the ship. It's  fascinating to learn that new insights into biology are coming from these  studies. There's a lot of really good new data here, and I recommend this  book with only the minor reservations noted above. Needless to say, I'll be  waiting eagerly, in ten or so years, for Pellegrino's next book on this  seemingly inexhaustable topic.	2000-07-24
US	51341528	R291R88CE8DHBO	0671578669	329662424	Cradle of Saturn	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Where is James Hogan and what have you done with him?	I've been a fan of James P. Hogan's hard sf from dayone. &quot;Inherit the Stars&quot; I literally could not put down, andthe same was true of the other Giants novels and many of his other works. In &quot;Cradle of Saturn&quot; Hogan appears to be trying to dust off his &quot;Inherit the Stars&quot; concept of explaining ancient mysteries but to pull out Velikovsky's ... long-discredited ideas is, to me, very un-Hogan-like (I would have been less surprised if Hogan, an aggressive atheist, had Found the Light). And he still hasn't learned to create realistic characters. Hogan's people are either all good (usually crusading scientists hooked firmly into Big Business - oh yes, very believable!), or all evil (usually scientists working for the government who are blind doofuses). His female characters have been utterly cardboard throughout.  Toss them into a typical plot replete with Stupid Science and you get...well, &quot;Cradle of Saturn.&quot; If you want to read Hogan (and you should, if you enjoy hard science fiction), start with &quot;Inherit the Stars.&quot; It was his first novel, and he was at the height of his plotting and creative powers. This book, on the other hand, is worth leaving on the store shelf until it's stripped.	2000-06-28
US	51341528	RIHYBI9HLCSYN	0553278274	957420140	A Night to Remember	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The book to start with if you're interested in the Titanic	For entertainment purposes, I recommend scanning down through the reviews of this book and reading any that are less than 5 stars. Hoo boy, what can you say? Walter Lord's book is a classic, the result of numerous interviews  with actual survivors, and is probably as close as we will ever get to a  complete recounting of the events of that awful night (also read Lord's  &quot;Night Lives On&quot; where he adds some new information and corrects  some errors he made in this book - he wasn't the only person caught out  when the ship turned up in two pieces!). If you're just getting into the  story or need to be cured of some of the more egregious excesses in  Cameron's film, this is the book you need to read. On the other hand, if  you're a victim of our educational system, go watch the movie. Hmmm.	2000-06-28
US	51341528	RKY85IH9DKOB7	1571451757	680780472	Titanic & Her Sisters Olympic & Britannic	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Worth having for some very unusual photos	Tom McCluskie, an employee of Harland &amp; Wolff, the Belfast shipbuilders who designed and built the Titanic, has made a bit of an industry for himself putting out books on the subject. This book is  probably the one most worth having, as it has all of the photos in his  other books plus some amazing and unusual photos of Britannic under  construction that I had never seen before (especially impressive were some  shots of the reciprocating engines being installed). The price is  definitely right, but be warned that for the massive size of the book the  binding is a little on the weak side.	2000-06-21
US	51341528	R2BHX7FRBKAYXE	0786864559	7751751	Ken Marschall's Art of the Titanic	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Titanic must-have	Ken Marschall has become the definitive artist of the Titanic, and his art has the reality of the photographs we so often lack. This book includes much of his Titanic work, including his very first painting of the great  ship, and as a bonus includes some of his other liner artwork, of the  Lusitania, Mauretania, Queen Mary, Normandie, and the Andrea Doria, as well  as Titanic's two sisters Olympic and Britannic. The Titanic was simply the  most beautiful ocean liner ever built - her lines are absolutely perfect -  and Marschall captures her with love and respect. Very highly recommended.	2000-06-21
US	51341528	R3190943NVBF5B	0140431896	106823905	The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	39	44	N	N	A good introduction to Gibbon	This is an excellent abridged edition of Edward Gibbon's classic &quot;Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire&quot; and it makes both a perfect introduction for those just getting into Gibbon and a useful  portable copy for people who have the entire set. This abridgement includes  much of Gibbon's coverage of the decline and fall of the western empire and  some interesting chapters and excerpts from the remainder of the work,  ideal for the general reader. Most of Gibbon's history still stands up  after 200 years (and footnotes point out where it doesn't), and it is  written in an absolutely gorgeous English style. Anyone interested in Rome  owes it to themselves to read Gibbon, and this is a good place to get your  feet wet.	2000-06-19
US	51341528	R2RAOVCSDS2XJW	1859150675	216701022	Tony Greenland's Panzer Modelling Masterclass	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A necessity for anyone modeling German AFVs	British master modeler Tony Greenland has produced a useful, beautifully illustrated book describing his favorite model building techniques, tools, finishing supplies, and the weathering method he was using at the time he  wrote it (people who have argued that Greenland's models are &quot;too  pretty&quot; should know he is weathering his models more extensively now).  Greenland is probably one of the best scratchbuilders in the business and  his models have been used as masters for the production of resin kits. His  discussion of scratchbuilding techniques is worth the price of the book  alone. He finishes with a gallery of inspirational photographs of some of  his models. Although some may find this book a little one-note in its focus  on German armor of WWII, armor modelers of all stripes and interests will  find many useful tips and information. Well worth your time and money.	2000-06-15
US	51341528	R23PRCH8M5YM71	0201353903	114495291	Palm III & PalmPilot (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An excellent guide to the PalmPilot	During my almost five years working for a national computer retailer, I became a major fan of Peachpit's Visual Quickstart Guides. Unlike the cretinous books for dummies, idiots, morons, etc, they cut right to the  chase and are full of useful information presented in a clear,  understandable fashion (besides, no dummy, idiot, or moron would own a  Palm!). No jokes, no cartoons, just facts. These books are absolutely  perfect for beginners and intermediate users. If you own any version of the  PalmPilot or Palm, you'll find this book a very useful introduction to the  life-changing device in your pocket, purse, or on your belt. As an early  Pilot adopter (128K!), I recommend this book unreservedly.	2000-06-12
US	51341528	RLA3NWAYXAAA2	0451198808	461529119	South: The ENDURANCE Expedition	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Shackleton's own story of his famous expedition	Although there have been a number of new books and reprints recently focusing on the Endurance expedition, this is the one book everyone should read, Sir Ernest Shackleton's own story of the tragedy he turned into a  triumph. Shackleton fully covers the expedition from its inception, through  the loss of the Endurance, the stranding of the men on desolate Elephant  Island, the majestic small-boat journey in search of rescue to South  Georgia, the many attempts to evacuate the men from Elephant Island, and  the little-known story of the Ross Sea Party of the expedition, who  established a base on the opposite side of the Antarctic continent to lay  depots for the planned Antarctic crossing and in spite of horrible  deprivation caused when their ship was swept out to sea in a storm, managed  to complete all their work laying the groundwork for a trip that never  happened. After rescuing his men on Elephant Island, Shackleton had to  rescue this party as well, something pretty much ignored in most modern  books about the expedition. Very much worth reading; also read &quot;Heart  of the Antarctic,&quot; Shackleton's book about his earlier expedition.	2000-06-12
US	51341528	RGW6VLNEVLIYJ	1565926005	476701523	PalmPilot: The Ultimate Guide: Mastering Palm Organizers from Pilot 1000 to Palm VII	Books	5	23	25	N	N	If you own a PalmPilot, buy this. Simple as that!	My former boss at the computer retailer where I worked was an early adopter of the USRobotics Pilot, as it then was, and I could do little but follow his wise lead. Well, the PalmPilot, or Palm as it now is, has  continued to improve and we've both moved on to later models. David Pogue's  book is the one I recommended to my customers looking for a book to  accompany their PalmPilot purchase. It is comprehensive, well-written, and  includes a wonderfully useful CD of add-on software in both free and trial  versions. If you own a Palm of any model or version, from the very first  128K Pilot to the latest iterations of the Palm V and VII, you need this  book. You especially need this book if you sync your Palm to a Macintosh,  as Pogue, Mac enthusiast that he is, is about the only author writing Palm  books who has paid much attention to using the Palm with the Macintosh  platform.	2000-06-12
US	51341528	RY5USYGDWITUJ	0765106477	458842524	Titanic	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A useful addition to your Titanic library	In the trade, we refer to this as a book &quot;printed as a remainder,&quot; i.e. a book intended to be sold inexpensively. But for an inexpensive book, Leo Marriott's &quot;Titanic&quot; is well worth having.  Its selection of photographs is excellent and include real rarities like  early construction photos of Olympic (it's worth noting here that a lot of  the pictures printed as being of the Titanic, especially shots of her  interior and many construction shots, are actually of Olympic. The reason  is simple; Olympic was available for photography a lot longer than her  sister ship was!), many of the famous Father Browne photographs (Browne, at  the time in the novitiate and later a Jesuit priest, travelled from  Southhampton to Queenstown on the maiden voyage and snapped away the entire  time; Cameron paid tribute to one of his photos in his movie), and shots of  the interior of an English hotel which is furnished with interiors torn out  of the Olympic when she was broken up. Marriott also discusses the  filmography of the Titanic disaster. Ignore the occasional typos; the book  is well worth the price.	2000-06-12
US	51341528	R2T5PFWSBE05KF	0908697244	882884647	Aurora Australis	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Interesting reading for fans of Shackleton	Although it's currently out of print, we can hope that the recent flood of Shackleton-related titles will provoke a reprint of the facsimile edition of the &quot;Aurora Australis,&quot; the book written and published by  Shackleton's 1907-1909 Nimrod Expedition in Winter Quarters. Most of the  men contributed written works including articles, poetry, and even some  fantasy (by as strait-laced a scientist as the future Sir Douglas Mawson!),  expedition artist George Marston produced illustrations, then Frank Wild  and Ernest Joyce typeset and printed the pages, and when everything was  finished Bernard Day crafted covers from empty cases and bound the books.  It is estimated that something from 75-90 copies were made, making this one  of the rarest of Antarctic collectibles. If you are fortunate enough to  find a used facsimile copy, as I was, snap it up; if not, let's hope  someone realizes its value as a reprint.	2000-06-12
US	51341528	R2QIDC7IT5V7S0	0306807858	641658874	Strong Men Armed: The United States Marines Against Japan	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Semper Fi!	This is the definitive book about the United States Marine Corps during the Second World War. Leckie vividly tells their stories in a clear, personal style that brings their honor and courage alive for those of us  fortunate enough to live in the world they saved. As the daughter of a  Korean War Marine and the great-niece of a Marine who fought on Iwo Jima, I  cannot recommend this book highly enough to anyone interested in the  Marines and their contribution in World War Two.	2000-06-11
US	51341528	RECDAKJTGVWBH	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good introduction to the Endurance epic	This is the book that really started the current round of &quot;Shackleton-mania&quot; and it is a good introduction to the story of the Endurance Expedition, well written, researched, and, of course,  beautifully illustrated with the classic photography of Frank Hurley. But  it's important to view it only as an introduction. Heacox'  &quot;Shackleton-The Antarctic Challenge&quot; goes into more detail, and  Shackleton's own books &quot;South&quot; and &quot;Heart of the  Antarctic&quot; are also must-reads, while Lennard Bickel's  &quot;Shackleton's Forgotten Men&quot; chronicles the little-known  adventures of the Ross Sea party of the Endurance Expedition. So if this  book leaves you wanting more, go on to those other titles. Alexander's book  also suffers badly from not having an index. I still highly recommend it  for its writing style and the wonderful reproductions of Hurley's  photographs.	2000-06-11
US	51341528	RF0HD4ITN8ZZB	0786704373	359013976	The Worst Journey in the World	Books	4	24	25	N	N	&quot;The Worst Journey&quot; indeed	Casual glancers at the title of this book about the 1912 Scott expedition may automatically assume that it refers to the death of Captain Scott and four of his companions on their return from the South Pole. Instead,  &quot;The Worst Journey in the World&quot; was the trip to the Emperor  Penguin rookeries undertaken in the middle of the Antarctic winter by  Cherry-Garrand, Dr. Wilson, and Lt. Bowers, the latter two of whom would  die with Scott on the polar trip. It makes absolutely terrifying reading;  the men were not equipped or trained for the rigors of the expedition, and  the scientific results from their collection of penguin eggs appear to have  been absolutely nil (Shackleton fans will be interested to know that Dr.  Eric Marshall suggested such a journey during the 1907-1909 Shackleton  expedition, but Shackleton thought the idea was cracked and refused to  countenance it). Cherry-Garrand is indeed a bit of a ragged writer, but as  a non-heroic account of the Scott expedition (compared to Scott's own  journals, written with Posterity in mind and &quot;improved&quot; by J.M.  Barrie) this book is a valuable addition to the bookshelf of anyone  interested in the heroic era of Antarctic exploration.	2000-06-11
US	51341528	RJ99NVTCZXL7I	0441680291	232145714	Procurator	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Reprint this, please!	What a shame that Mitchell's &quot;Rome Trilogy&quot; (&quot;Procurator,&quot; &quot;New Barbarians&quot; and &quot;Cry Republic&quot;) is out of print. He brilliantly brings the Roman Empire  forward to modern times with likely technological &quot;improvements&quot;  and introduces several marvelously memorable characters, most notably Gaius  Julius Agricola, the Procurator of this title. If you can find this and the  two sequels anywhere, read them. They're a real pleasure. And how sad that  the Empire had to decline and fall....	2000-06-10
US	51341528	R1WVTAH4X7W15X	0451409477	380456488	Gladiator	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A decent novelization of a brilliant film	Dewey Gram has produced a readable novelization of Ridley Scott's brilliant new film &quot;Gladiator.&quot; There are some minor dialogue differences from the film and a few extra scenes, and he doesn't go into  the character's motivations as much he might, but he at least does slip in  some historical details and the book is a nice substitute for the film  until the VHS and DVD versions are available! It would have been useful,  incidentally, to include an afterword pointing out the differences between  the film's version of history and what really happened. Interested readers  are directed to book I of Gibbon's &quot;Decline and Fall of the Roman  Empire&quot; which, no surprise, begins with Commodus.	2000-06-10
US	51341528	R1MMW862IIJVDI	0192833006	158560315	Tacitus: Agricola and Germany (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Anyone interested in Rome needs to read Tacitus	This is a good edition of two of Tacitus' works, the Agricola, which is a short biography of his father-in-law, and the Germania, a look at the Roman view of the Germans (timely at the moment in view of the opening scenes of  Ridley Scott's film &quot;Gladiator&quot;). I am especially fond of the  Agricola, in particular the last few pages, where Tacitus is finished with  the biography and can speak about Agricola like a son. His love and  admiration for his father-in-law still reaches us, almost 2000 years later.  Anyone interested in Rome owes it to themselves to read the source  documents, and this is a good start.	2000-06-10
US	51341528	R19EYO41OQUK58	1560252561	722473331	Shackleton's Forgotten Men: The Untold Tale of an Antarctic Tragedy (Adrenaline Classics)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A gripping story of endurance and courage wasted	Although modern writers discussing the events of the Endurance expedition have indeed pretty much forgotten this side of the expedition, it should be pointed out that Sir Ernest Shackleton himself covered it in his own book  &quot;South.&quot; Bickel has used recently found documentation and other  materials to put together the complete tale of the Ross Sea Party of the  Endurance expedition. After their ship Aurora was pulled away from her  moorings by a storm, the men left on shore brilliantly improvised stores  and equipment to lay the depots required for the planned crossing the  Antarctic continent. During their sledging journeys one man died, and the  survivors had to struggle to save two more (who ultimately were lost  through their own foolishness in crossing sea ice when a storm threatened).  All in all this is a valuable contribution to the story of the Endurance  expedition. I also very highly recommend &quot;Mawson's Will&quot; by the  same author.	2000-06-10
US	51341528	R2CE64AHYXFHPB	0375504044	393898778	Left for Dead: My Journey Home from Everest	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Read the climbing parts, skim over the family squabbles	Anyone who has read Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; should read this as well. I was curious to get a chance to hear Dr. Beck Weathers' side of the story, and he tells it in a straightforward way, not blaming anyone  for the tragedy that left him with multiple amputations and several other  people dead, when in fact there was plenty of blame to go around. What is  off-putting are the included comments from Dr. Weathers' wife, who clearly  does not understand him in the least and has consistently refused to share  any of his interests (one fine example being her comment that she wouldn't  go sailing with him because the boat wasn't air conditioned) and then  complains that he has ignored his family. Well, it seems as if there is  plenty of blame to go in both directions. Fortunately it's fairly easy to  skim over the family dysfunction stuff and concentrate on the climbing. Dr.  Weathers is a courageous, humorous man, and he seems to have survived his  ordeal in better order than might have been expected. You'll finish the  book wishing him well, as I do.	2000-06-05
US	51341528	R3W50V331SOMJI	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The book I recommended to my customers	In my four and a half years of working in the bookstore of a major computer retailing chain, this was, in its various editions, the book I consistently recommended to customers looking for that proverbial  &quot;good book on HTML,&quot; and everyone who I happened to see again  agreed that it was a great purchase. Like the rest of the Peachpit Visual  Quickstarts, this book covers HTML in its latest incarnation in a  straightforward, understandable way, without wasting time on stupid  &quot;humor&quot; like the Dummies books. The examples are well illustrated  and explained, and the book includes useful extras like a chart of the  &quot;safe&quot; internet colors. Like I used to say to my customers as I  handed them this title in the midst of our huge HTML section, &quot;This is  the book.&quot;	2000-06-05
US	51341528	R2WT55YBBK4N4	155821979X	824866413	Nelson: The Immortal Memory	Books	4	15	15	N	N	One of the better modern biographies of Lord Nelson	There have been three biographies of Nelson written in the past few years that are worth reading; Tom Pocock's, Christopher Hibbert's, and this one by the Howarths. Pocock's is in many ways the most enjoyable to read,  Hibbert's has some new information, but &quot;Nelson: The Immortal  Memory&quot; is my own favorite and a good selection for someone just  beginning to find out about the contradictory, fascinating man who was  unquestionably the greatest fighting admiral who ever lived and whose  memory lives on in the modern Royal Navy.	2000-06-02
US	51341528	R2Q7OCSZ3MULU0	086299179X	452612780	Titanic (Maritime)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Still a very readable account of the Titanic disaster	Originally published in 1913 as The Truth About the Titanic, Titanic: A Survivor's Story was the first book by an actual Titanic survivor to appear in print. Colonel Archibald Gracie, a military historian who is treated  really brutally by James Cameron in his film, was not only a brave man but  an indefatigable historian of the disaster. In the months remaining to him  after the sinking (Colonel Gracie died in December 1912, possibly of  aftereffects from his harrowing escape), Gracie tracked down other  survivors and was the first to make an attempt at putting each survivor  into the boat he or she escaped from. Written with period charm, this is an  important book about the disaster and will dispell any remaining images of  Cameron's doofy &quot;Archie.&quot;	2000-06-02
US	51341528	R1JEOSALTE28HV	185479390X	260063674	Battle for Empire: The Very First World War 1756-63	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An eminently readable history of the Seven Years War	Tom Pocock, whose biographies of Nelson are also very much worth your time, has written a wonderful short history of the Seven Years War, which he is correct in referring to as the first truly world war, and as the war  that set Britain on its road to empire. Pocock has a real talent for  vividly depicting people in a chapter or two, including the unfortunate  Admiral Byng (shot to &quot;encourage the others&quot; as Voltaire wryly  observed), Wolfe, and Clive. Very, very much worth reading; the Seven Years  War (which has been consistently reduced to the status of a minor squabble  in American history books under the misnomer of the &quot;French and Indian  War&quot;) has been almost forgotten but its effect on the history of the  late 18th and the 19th centuries cannot be overestimated.	2000-06-02
US	51341528	R2UY4V8JHZFF8H	0207196176	310789013	Antarctic Eyewitness: South With Mawson  and Shackleton's Argonauts	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Two great accounts of two great expeditions	This new book combines Charles Laseron's 1947 &quot;South With Mawson&quot; and Frank Hurley's 1948 &quot;Shackleton's Argonauts&quot; in one volume, continuing the wonderful flood of reprints relating to the  heroic era of Antarctic exploration. Laseron's account of the 1912 Mawson  expedition is full of human interest, and makes a useful adjunct to  Mawson's own, somewhat drier account in &quot;Home of the Blizzard.&quot;  Laseron was a careful observer of his surroundings and his fellow  expedition members, and his writing style is vivid and often humorous. This  half of the book includes photographs by expedition photographer Frank  Hurley, whose own memoirs of the Endurance voyage make up the second half  of the book. Frank Hurley's &quot;Shackleton's Argonauts&quot; is a  gripping description of the Endurance expedition, also illustrated with  some of Hurley's magnificent photographs. Having served with both Sir  Douglas Mawson and Sir Ernest Shackleton, Hurley compares the two men in a  couple of wonderful paragraphs, concluding &quot;Shackleton grafted science  onto exploration; Mawson added exploration onto science,&quot; a very good  way of summing up the differences between the leaders. Hurley also shows  himself to have been an early environmentalist, and expresses in no  uncertain terms his horror of the South Atlantic whaling industry and its  slaughter of those great animals, commenting &quot;I had marvelled at the  devices that enabled man's ingenuity to triumph over nature's moods and  most powerful creatures, but I marvelled still more that man was unable to  triumph over the seemingly more potent monster of his creating; its name is  greed,&quot; to which I can only add, &quot;amen.&quot; Anyone interested  in Antarctic exploration will want to add this valuable reprint to their  library, and I cannot recommend it more highly.	2000-06-01
US	51341528	RP8LYT1WVTIXB	0156196255	651783548	Coming Up for Air	Books	5	93	95	N	N	Orwell's best novel	It's a shame that George Orwell's two best-known novels, &quot;Animal Farm&quot; and &quot;Nineteen Eighty Four&quot; are neither one his best novel. The peak of Orwell's fiction is this almost forgotten novel,  &quot;Coming Up for Air.&quot; Set in the last few years before a World War  II that was obviously looming on the horizon, this elegant book memorably  chronicles the life of George Bowling and his attempt to escape domesticity  and the horrors to come for a few days by visiting his old home town. Every  time I reread &quot;Coming Up for Air,&quot; I wonder what Orwell might  have achieved if he had lived longer and had not been as ill as he was in  the ten years that remained to him. If all you've read of Orwell is his two  &quot;famous&quot; novels, you owe it to yourself to read this.	2000-05-31
US	51341528	R33AXT8B4AT3OH	0156767503	346001917	The Road to Wigan Pier	Books	5	79	83	N	N	A vividly written book, controversial in its own day	It's worth knowing that this book was originally commissioned by the Left Book Club, a Socialist book club in the UK, and when the manuscript arrived they realized Orwell had delivered more than they'd bargained for. In part  one, Orwell brilliantly reports on the atrocious living and working  conditions in northern England in the 1930s. His chapter covering his visit  to a coal mine has been often anthologized, but the entire section consists  of equally vivid portraits. In part two, Orwell discusses Socialism with  such a jaundiced eye that it had the editors of the Left Book Club  wondering if they could get away with printing only the first half of the  book! Orwell did not fully believe in Socialism until he fought in the  Spanish Civil War after &quot;Wigan Pier&quot; was printed, and contrary to  the right-wingers who have claimed him as one of their own, Orwell was a  dedicated Socialist to the day he died, but a skeptical one.  Read  &quot;Wigan Pier,&quot; and for more information, read Orwell's diary he  kept during his trip to the north in Volume 1 of the Collected Essays.	2000-05-31
US	51341528	RD1NG1AG88XNS	0312230729	594507171	The Home of the Blizzard: A True Story of Antarctic Survival	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A comprehensive look at Mawson's little-known expedition	After his contributions to Sir Ernest Shackleton's 1907-1909 Nimrod expedition, Australian scientist Dr. Douglas Mawson decided to put together his own expedition, one that placed more emphasis on science than any up to  that time and many afterwards. Although his own experiences were by far the  most gripping of the expedition, Mawson is careful to tell the entire  story, with excerpts from other member's diaries and reports. His style is  a little dry, compared to Shackleton's books, but the tale of the  expedition is a compelling and interesting one. The book is very well  illustrated with photographs, maps, and diagrams, and the cover is really  handsome. Read this, but also read Lennard Bickel's &quot;Mawson's  Will&quot; for more emphasis on Mawson's own terrifying adventure.	2000-05-31
US	51341528	R5VI3P3XZ9OTJ	0312206550	310468384	The Last Voyage of the Karluk: A Survivor's Memoir of Arctic Disaster	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A useful contrast to the Endurance saga	It's hard to picture any expedition more ineptly run than Scott's, but the Karluk expedition was indeed even worse. And while Scott's mistakes were exposed for the world to see, the leader of the Karluk expedition,  Vilhjalmur Stefansson, was so successful in covering up his that he was  lionized after his return by the National Geographic Society and no less a  personage than Robert Peary.   This book was written some sixty years after  the fact by a survivor of the expedition, and while the execution could be  better, this is an interesting tale that provides a useful counterpoint to  the story of the Endurance. While Sir Ernest Shackleton, through his  courage, self-sacrifice, and leadership saved every one of his men when the  Endurance was crushed in the ice and sunk, when the Karluk was similarly  beset the vile Stefansson left his men to die.	2000-05-18
US	51341528	R2NADPEHPD8X6J	0393319946	16304106	Endurance	Books	5	10	12	N	N	One of the greatest adventures of the 20th century	Frank Worsley begins his book just as he realizes that his ship Endurance is doomed to be crushed in the ice, and that's a good place to start, for the adventure was only about to begin. Worsley not only discusses the  events of the Endurance expedition but his own adventures in WWI, during  which his Q-ship rammed and sank a German U-boat, and his final expedition  with Sir Ernest Shackleton in 1922 aboard the Quest. Read this, also read  &quot;Shackleton's Boat Journey&quot; by Worsley, and of course  Shackleton's own book &quot;South.&quot; My only complaint about this new  edition of Worsley's book is the addition of a preface by the tendentious,  trendy, wildly overrated Patrick O'Brian, who clearly doesn't have the  faintest idea what he's writing about. Read the original intro by Admiral  of the Fleet Earl Jellicoe, ignore O'Brian, and learn what courage and  leadership truly are.	2000-05-01
US	51341528	R3NRMYUCSBNY8	0814405436	747177207	Leading at the Edge : Leadership Lessons from the Extraordinary Saga of Shackleton's Antarctic Expedition	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Shackleton's expedition can still teach important lessons	This is a good new business book that posits that today's businesspeople can learn from the leadership example of Sir Ernest Shackleton as displayed during his famous 1914-1916 Endurance expedition. The author takes lessons  from Shackleton's experience, his own experiences as a Marine Corps officer  in Vietnam, and from the business world, and contrasts them with examples  from unsuccessul expeditions and businesses. He and his coauthors then  finish up with a series of cases from the real world that illuminate the  thesis, especially the tragic Malden Mills fire, in which Aaron Feuerstein  was able to show truly Shackleton-like leadership characteristics and care  for his employees. Not only will businesspeople learn valuable lessons in  leadership from this book, but it can serve as a useful introduction to  Shackleton's adventures.	2000-05-01
US	51341528	R2ENE6PSSZO69V	0375902139	369377057	Sea of Ice: The Wreck of the Endurance (Step into Reading)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A well-done introduction to the Endurance epic	This book is a very well-written and illustrated introduction to the epic story of Sir Ernest Shackleton and the crew of the Endurance in their struggle to survive the loss of their ship in the ice. If you know a child who feels put-upon because they don't have the latest model gaming system or the right type of monsters in their card decks, get them to read this,  and perhaps it will prove a useful antidote to the ennervating softness of  &quot;modern&quot; civilization.	2000-04-11
US	51341528	R5P39TTKSW2PC	1586420003	691988543	Mawson's Will: The Greatest Polar Survival Story Ever Written	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A story of incredible courage	It's good to see this book back in print. Douglas Mawson, a veteran of the 1907-1909 Shackleton expedition, returned to the Antarctic in 1912 with his own team. His sledge journey with two companions turned from a harsh but  rewarding exploration into a terrifying fight for survival in an instant.  At almost the same time as Scott was busily scribbling inspiring hoo-hah in  his diary trying to cover up his appalling faults of leadership and  organization, Mawson was courageously fighting for his life and refusing to  lie down and die. An incredible story! One hopes that Australia remembers  Sir Douglas Mawson and his fortitude. He is an example to all of us.	2000-03-02
US	51341528	R296WXDFEYIPBB	0812821777	606884052	Mawson's Will: The Greatest Survival Story Ever Written	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mawson - the most courageous Antarctic explorer	If you can find a copy of this book, read it. Douglas Mawson, a veteran of the 1907-1909 Shackleton expedition, returned to the Antarctic in 1912 with his own team. His sledge journey with two companions turned from a harsh  but rewarding exploration into a terrifying fight for survival in an  instant. At almost the same time as Scott was busily scribbling inspiring  hoo-hah in his diary trying to cover up his appalling faults of leadership  and organization, Mawson was courageously fighting for his life and  refusing to lie down and die. An incredible story! One hopes that Australia  remembers Sir Douglas Mawson and his fortitude. He is an example to all of  us.	2000-02-26
US	51341528	R2QUDO6XQ00BUR	0451200462	768604846	The Heart of the Antarctic: The Farthest South Expedition, 1907-1909	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A superior edition of Shackleton's first book	This is a very nice, somewhat abridged edition of &quot;Heart of the Antarctic.&quot; Compared with the Carroll &amp; Graf trade edition, this does have some bits edited from the expedition preparations and the account  of the Furthest South journey, but, unlike the Carroll &amp; Graf edition,  it has Professor David's account of the march to the South Magnetic Pole  and an account of the Northern Party journey and so is overall a better  text. The selection of pictures is decent, although there is one photo that  I suspect is from the 1912 Scott expedition (of a tracked motor-sledge; the  Shackleton expedition had only a car with it). The story of the British  Antarctic Expedition is just as exciting as the doomed Endurance voyage,  and I would highly recommend this edition to everyone interested in  Shackleton and his adventures.	2000-02-14
US	51341528	R1YWR3W07IKLJN	0786706848	876751464	The Heart of the Antarctic: Being the Story of the British Antarctic Expedition, 1907-1909	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A fascinating look at an overlooked expedition	The epic story of the Endurance expedition has overshadowed Shackleton's earlier Nimrod expedition, during which he and three comrades trekked to within 100 miles of the South Pole and other members of his expedition were  the first to climb Mount Erebus and locate the South Magnetic Pole. This is  a well-written account and gives a complete overview not only of the  expedition but also of Shackleton's careful preparations. Read  &quot;South&quot; by all means, but read this book by Shackleton too; it's  excellent.	2000-01-02
US	51341528	RDKE4X8G9KOJE	1571451609	528398454	Anatomy of the Titanic	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Worth having if you're interested in Titanic and her sisters	Definitely good value for the money, although the author makes some unaccountable errors; there are at least 2 photos of Britannic captioned as being Titanic and a couple shots of wooden patterns for Olympic's turbine  engine captioned as being the engine itself; these are so obvious I'm  suprised McCluskie missed them. As other reviewers here have pointed out a  lot of the shots are of Olympic; in many of the photos an easy way to tell  which shots are of what is to look for hull numbers stenciled on the parts.  Anything numbered 400 is from Olympic, 401 is Titanic, and 433 is  Britannic. Not a perfect book, but a useful addition to anyone's Titanic  collection.	1999-12-25
US	51341528	RW8RZ6NKS4SHJ	0393046842	16304106	Endurance: An Epic of Polar Adventure	Books	5	17	22	N	N	The greatest adventure of the 20th century	Frank Worsley starts his book just as he realizes that his ship Endurance is doomed to be crushed in the ice, and that's a good place to start, for the adventure was only about to begin. Worsley not only discusses the  events of the Endurance expedition but his own adventures in WWI, during  which his Q-ship rammed and sank a German U-boat and his final expedition  with Sir Ernest Shackleton in 1922 aboard the Quest. Read this, also read  &quot;Shackleton's Boat Journey&quot; also by Worsley, and of course  Shackleton's own book &quot;South.&quot; My only complaint about this new  edition of Worsley's book is the addition of a preface by the tendentious,  currently trendy, wildly overrated Patrick O'Brian, who clearly doesn't  have the faintest idea what he's writing about. Read the original intro by  Admiral of the Fleet Earl Jellicoe, ignore O'Brian, and then learn what  courage and leadership truly are.	1999-11-22
US	51341528	R2SNOUSVWLQRTP	0486256111	507262491	Story of the "Titanic": 24 Cards (Dover Postcards)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A useful gift for the rabid Titanic completist on your list!	Dover Publications is one of my favorite imprints for their combination of low cost and high quality. This book, with its 24 well-printed black and white postcards, will find a place on every Titanic enthusiasts' shelf.  Some of the photos are common, others are more unusual; this is the only  place I've seen the photo of Captain Smith and Lord Pirrie (builder of the  ship) together, and the photo of Titanic with Olympic is also nice to have.  The accompanying notes are useful, well-written, and accurate.	1999-11-22
US	51341528	R3L3RO2TPNR79G	0312867085	283442354	The Abduction Enigma: An Investigation of the Alien Abduction Phenomenon	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An important book about the abduction phenomenon	This is one of the most important books to be written on the subject of UFOs in some time. For years the debunkers have claimed that people who believe there is something to the UFO mystery will believe everything, and  the blind acceptance of crap like abductions, Area 51 and the Billy Meier  photographs have suggested the debunkers are right. Randle, one of the more  intelligent writers on the topic, and his coauthors have done a major piece  of self-policing in this book. I would recommend this to anyone curious  about abductions who isn't afraid to learn the truth.	1999-10-04
US	51341528	RPD1A868G0CWG	0889626782	298445260	Shackleton's Captain: A Biography of Frank Worsley	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An interesting biography of an interesting man	Frank Worsley is best known as the captain of the Endurance on Shackleton's ill-fated Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition in 1914, but he led a full and very interesting life that included searching for treasure  and sinking a German U-boat during WWI. Anyone who has read  &quot;Shackleton's Boat Journey&quot; will want to know more about Worsley,  and this book will fill many of the gaps.	1999-09-11
US	51341528	REKAPW6LMNANQ	0393047148	726769829	A Glimpse of Hell : The Explosion on the U. S. S. Iowa & Its Cover-Up	Books	4	5	9	N	N	No wonder the surface Navy is in trouble	If one tenth of this book's charges are true, the former captain of the Iowa, his executive officer, and all of the admirals and lower ranks involved in the coverup of this accident should be hanged from the yardarm.  Their efforts to make an understandable ammunition loading accident look  like a supposedly gay sailor's violent suicide are beyond the pale. Anyone  who, like me, is appalled at the increasingly pathetic state of the surface  fleet, should read this book and then write their congressman. The Navy  needs to be cleaned up from top to bottom, and as a kicker, the military's  asinine policy on gays and the paranoia it evidently inspires has got to  go.	1999-08-10
US	51341528	R2DM7ZE3TJ2QFO	0671011693	104166566	Battlestar Galactica: Armageddon	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Yikes!	I've been a Battlestar Galactica fan from the beginning, and I have to say I have read a lot of fan fiction (including a lot of bad fan fiction!) that's actually better and more consistent to the series than this. Richard  has given us -  I presume unintentionally - a kind of white male Aryan  power fantasy. This book is really a mess. Go to the used bookstores and  look up the older novels; even the worst ones were better. Or check out  some good fan fiction.	1999-08-01
US	51341528	RGDLANJ32BGZL	0380802619	931781699	Chariots for Apollo: Untold Story Behind the Race to the Moon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Glad to have it back in print!	It's good to see Pellegrino and Stoff's book back in print after so long. Anyone who saw Tom Hanks' excellent HBO series will recognize where the episode about the development of the lunar module came from. Pellegrino is  a passionate writer, and that comes across here. You'd hardly expect it of  a book about technology, but this book almost sings. Very highly  recommended. Read his book about the Titanic, too.	1999-07-21
