US	51345940	R2G4S50D3Q9U80	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Important Book for Educators	Revolutionaries tend to overstate their case, but few have overstated their case as beautifully as stunningly as Valerie Kirschenbaum. \\"Goodbye Gutenberg\\" fervently argues that case for \\"designer writing\\" -- that is, for books that combine colored text, striking fonts, colorful images and illustrations, and imaginative layouts. The book cannot really described; you have to see it and experience it to fully appreciate it. <br /> <br />The most persuasive sections of the book deal with the pedagogical implications of designer writing. From her own experiences as a teacher in the Bronx, Kirschenbaum discovered that colored text, especially when accompanied by arresting images, can instill an interest for reading even in the listless, dysfunctional students of the inner city. Educators need to read this book, and take what it says seriously. Designer writing is not, of course, a panacea that will solve all the problems that beset the American education system; but school textbooks have long been a scandal and are badly in need of improvement. Designer writing might be just what is needed to enliven that part of the curriculum. <br /> <br />Ms. Kirschenbaum desires to extend designer writing beyond the confines of pedagogical materials to literature as a whole. She argues that designer books will eventually replace the drab black-and-white style of book developed under the auspices of Gutenberg's printing press. Kirschenbaum not only argues the point, but seeks to illustrate it as well. Each of the books 38 chapters adopts a different designer style, as if to show the many of the possibilities of the new genre. I am not as sanguine as the author that designer writing can replace or even seriously threaten the Gutenberg style. The biggest obstacle is that very few people have the talent design books like \\"Goodbye Gutenberg.\\" Talent tends to be specialized. Most really gifted writers would not be capable of designing a book like this. Writing just takes too much out of them.	2005-01-17
US	51345940	R3I60BQUU35OPY	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Important insights on the direction of innovation	This is an important book on several levels. For people in business, it provides important insights about current trends in entrepreneurship and management.  From their field work, Mitchell and Coles discovered that the most successful companies are those that engage in frequent business model innovation.  These companies, however, did not start out with business model innovation.  They stumbled upon it almost by accident.  Having been pleasantly surprised about the success of the initial innovation, they embarked on others.  Mitchell and Coles believe that, as more and more business leaders come to understand the importance of business model innovation, it will become \\"the most important leadership and management activity of the next ten years.\\" <br />This obviously information that people in business need to know about. It's also something that economists should pay attention to. Innovation is perhaps the key component in explaining the dynamics of a capitalist economy. Unfortunately, for most academic economists, innovation is regarded, not as an essential attribute of an economy, but as an \\"external force\\" that is inexplicable by economic theory. Or, if innovation is admitted as an endogenous force, its regarded as a kind of wild card -- as something that, because it cannot be unambiguously quantified, is of little use in the development of sophisticated economic models, which nowadays are almost always of staggering mathematical complexity. Reading a book like The Ultimate Competitive Advantage reminds us that knowledge comes, not from abstruse theorizing, but from experience, from practical life. As Paul Ormerod has noted, economists can learn a great deal from the serious work of business writers and scholars, precisely because such work is often rooted in the experience of the real world business world, rather than in abstract academic theories, which are framed largely to fit into mathematics, rather than to accurately describe the real world. While the Ultimate Competitive Advantage is certainly not a work of economics and is written entirely for businessmen, the empirical insights it provides into the way the market actually works in real life should not be missed by those eager to cast off the discredited theories of mainstream equilibrium economics.	2003-07-26
US	51345940	R1FAY0KUEEH9XU	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Solid, but not profound, defense of protectionism	Buchanan's book is a solid though not particularly profound or penetrating defense of protectionism  The main thrust of Buchanan's argument is fairly simple.  When the United States followed an unapologetically protectionist policy during the nineteenth century, the U.S. economy grew by leaps and bounds.  But when the U.S began following a more liberal trade policy, the economy began to decline, especially within the manufacturing, heavy-industry sectors.  Buchanan believes that a return to a more protectionist policy would reinvigorate the American economy.<br />Is Buchanan right?  To a large degree.  He is mostly right historically.  Protectionism did accelerate the growth of the nation's industrial economy.  Whether it can help the economy as it stands today is a more difficult question.  Economists would have to develop a better understanding of all the economic and social ramifications of protectionism policy.  Buchanan is correct in castigating the economic profession for its dogmatic views about free trade.  But he has not exactly developed a convincing economic theory to explain why protectionism worked in the past.  (He also, incidentally, erroneously tries to defend the protectionism of the twenties and thirties -- the one time in American history when protectionism made no sense.)  I admit to finding it hard to regard protectionism as some sort of panacea.  At the same time, it is clear that free trade is no panacea either, that both policies have clear problems and difficulties.<br />The fact remains that most arguments either for or against protectionism are not terribly convincing.  The subject is not well understood, largely because the issue confuses moral problems with purely practical problems.  Protectionism is a form of spoliation: it is the plunder of consumers on the behalf of specially favored producers.  However, merely because protectionism involves what many economists regard as an immoral practice does not mean that it provides no real social utility.  Protectionism can make it easier for producers to amass capital (usually a good thing) and it provides a less uncertain environment for investors and entrepreneurs (also a good thing).  Moreover, it is critical that a nation protects its capital.  The tendency for corporations in the U.S. to export capital abroad in order to take advantage of cheap labor is a very ominous development, and will lead to the decline of America if something is not done to limit or put a stop to it.	2002-11-05
US	51345940	RKAW2UBA8SR39	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Blistering polemical against liberal media	...While I understand the need for books like this one, I'm not sure I altogether like it.  I would prefer that conservatives take the high-road and dispense with all these blistering polemics, especially when it comes to a topic as controversial and important as media bias.  Coulter's obsession with raking the liberal media over the coals for its intransigent unfairness limits her book somewhat.  Let's be honest about this: liberal bias is only one of the many sins committed by our news media.  Professional new journalists also suffer from laziness and a bias towards establishment figures.  One cannot completely understand the liberal bias of the media without discussing these other problems, because they are related.  The media's bias towards establishment figures is especially tricky, because it seems to contradict the media's bias in favor of liberalism (or so the Left would have us believe).  But this contradiction is largely apparent rather than real.  Reporters don't like going after powerful individuals in the establishment because their afraid of reprisals.  They'll criticize them often enough, because that attracts viewers.  But they will avoid the real big story -- e.g., any of the stories that could have gotten Bill Clinton indicted or thrown in jail.  Hence, Clinton was criticized for his sordid affair with Monica, but was more or less given a free pass on Chinagate, which happened to be a much more serious matter.  <br />These are, to be sure, complicated matters, difficult to thresh out, and not easily made the stuff of polemical writing, which tends to remain on a highly general level, free of the nuances and subtleties characteristic of reality.  Hence my slight dissatisfaction with Coulter's book.  I think it could have been a lot better.	2002-10-08
US	51345940	R225T54ZRT89D3	0375707166	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A classic from last years Nobel winner.	This is one of the handful of true classics written since the Second World War, and the greatest novel ever written by someone who lived and grew up in the Third World.  It is a story told with great compassion and humor of Mohun Biswas, a man who, despite all his faults and weaknesses, is head and shoulders above his provincial but wealthy in-laws.  The novel chronicles Mr. Biswas's sad but dogged struggle to attain a level of dignity among people sunk in stupidity and a mania for status.  Reading this book, I began to understand Naipaul's especially pessimistic non-ideological conservatism.  He sees all too clearly how the problems of the Third World are a product of certain type of congenital dysfunction.  This is the tragedy of the novel.  The people he describes are victims of their own states of mind.  Any attempt to \\"liberate\\" them would surely fail, because you cannot cure sicknesses of the soul.  Biswas realizes he can do nothing about his in-laws.  They are hopeless cases.  When they move to a country state, instead of harvesting the many orange trees on the property, they begin chopping them down so they can pick the oranges that much easier.  By this time, Biswas is too much of a fatalist even to be angry about this any more.  In Biswas fatalism we see the seeds of Naipaul's pessimistic vision of the Third World.	2002-10-08
US	51345940	R1LAH9LR1UFH23	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	5	33	43	N	N	Devestating indictment of mendacity of radical left	As some of the previous reviews have mentioned, this book is more about Horowitz's confrontation with the University radicals over the issue of reparations than it is over the reparations itself.  What we have here is a book that details the sociology of radical left student activists--demonstrating how little these people care either about ideas or the truth or even common decency.   Their hatred of American society is only rivalled by their absolute insistence that they never be criticized or challenged.  They are against the Open Society as such and pretend to be \\"offended\\" if anyone questions their twisted ideals.  Despite being among some of the most privileged individuals in the history of the human race, attending expensive colleges where they are catered to by an indulgent administration, they never cease complaining about how oppressed they are and the horrors of the \\"white establishment\\" that \\"rules\\" America.  They have no sense of history or the human condition.  They believe merely what they wish to believe--and God forbid if anyone should try to shake them from their dogmatic slumbers!<br />Their attempts to silence Horowitz's campaign against reparations would rate as first-rate farce if it were not so pathetic and disturbing.  Not only did not one radical leftist attempt to refute all of Horowitz's ten arguments against reparations, not one demonstrated that even understood any of Horowitz's arguments.  The radical Left's fanatical ideology prevents these poor children of darkness from being able to understand what they read--a huge problem for American intellectuals, especially those on the Left. It never occurs to these individuals that the goal of reading is to understand what someone else is trying to say, in order that one may learn from that person and be challenged by him.  But these people have no interest in learning.  <br />This is a widespread problem among American intellectuals.  This was clear to me when I was doing the research for a book critical of Ayn Rand.  Neither Rand nor her followers seemed to me capable of reading.  They inevitably twisted everything they read that disagreed with their point of view, giving it a malicious interpretation.  (Of course, if anyone misinterpreted anything Rand said, they would howl with indignation.) But in comparison with these radical leftists, Rand appears a very model of fair-mindedness.  At least Rand and her followers pretend to respect logic and rational argument.  These leftists, as described by Horowitz, don't even offer the merest pretense of logic or respect for rational argument.  Horowitz's arguments against reparations, which most Americans would agree with, they dismiss as \\"offensive\\" and \\"racist,\\" and that's as far as they go in the direction of rational argument.  Some students reported weeping because their feelings were so badly hurt!  If these students really are that hyper-sensitive (rather than merely histrionic), how do they expect to make it in the real world, where no one will have any indulgence for such absurdities?  I fear that these radical leftists will be in for a hard time of it when they leave the shelter of the university.  Such are the consequences of adopting an ideology so contrary to fact, so belligerently opposed to the demands of everyday life.	2002-07-23
US	51345940	R3H9V0INFPXHU6	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	2	14	31	N	N	Sleazy expose of ideological hypocrisy	This book will appeal mostly to liberals who regard the so-called \\"radical\\" right  as  \\"extremist\\" and \\"dangerous\\" or who admire (for whatever reason) Bill Clinton and are eager to believe that Clinton was not seriously corrupt (and I'm not referring to the sex scandals or any of that other Monica Lewinsky nonsense).  Conservative idealogues will hate the book and will seek any convenient rationalization to dismiss it out of hand.  Meanwhile, the true significance of the book will be lost to both camps, because neither has any independent interest in the truth.<br />Brock's book is largely made up of unpleasant gossip about prominent conservative pundits.  He is eager to show them as a bunch of hypocrites and liars who would stoop at nothing to gain their sinister political ends.  He passes on all kinds of personal information of a demeaning kind about the people he used to associate with, some of it derived from personal confidences he received while he was friends with these people.  The unstated suggestion is that, since these conservatives are shallow, unscrupulous, and immoral, this somehow discredits conservative ideas.  That, in any case, is how the book will be read by liberal ideologues, who are eager for any rationalization, no matter how shallow or illogical, that allows them to dismiss conservativism out of hand.<br />Because of Brock's self-acknowledged mendacity in regards to his Anita Hill book, some have questioned if he can be trusted at all.  But I don't think the problem is whether he's telling any outright laws.  As a matter of fact, my guess is he's probably telling the truth.  The trouble is that he gives only one-quarter of the picture.  If you tell only the bad things about a person, you can make them look pretty bad without actually telling a palpable lie.  But you have given a distorted picture nonetheless.  This is what Brock is guilty of in this book.  He gives us only the dirt on ideological conservatives, providing us with a very distorted picture of the people that make up its ranks.  The reality is really far more complex and morally ambiguous.  The so-called \\"Clinton crazies\\" were in fact on to something: they are guilty of merely allowing fanaticism to distort their judgment concerning how they were to combat the problem that having a very corrupt President who was too clever to get caught at anything really serious.   (And Monica Lewinsky was not really all that serious.)  They became obsessed with sex scandals and the President's personal conduct when the real problem was Clinton's willingness to compromise national security in order to raise campaign funds.  (See \\"Year of the Rat\\" for the details.)<br />Brock's tome, despite the sleaze factor and the unsavory attempt to cater to liberal illusions, does touch on what is a very serious problem within the conservative movement.  The revelations about the personal lives of various conservatives brought forth in this book are not surprising to anyone privy to inside information.   In the post sixties era, conservatives, no less than liberals, have become morally corrupted by the prevailing hedonism of contemporary American society.  This is a problem only for conservatives, because unlike those on the other side of political spectrum, conservatives are committed to a system of values that does not accord with a culture of hedonism.  Conservatives who, because of their lifestyle, do not practice what they preach, open themselves not merely to the charge of hypocrisy, but also to ideological conflicts of interest.  They may find their lifestyle conflicting so seriously with their ideology that they will have to switch sides.   If I'm not mistaken, something like this has happened with Brock himself.  I suspect we will run across others as well in the years to come.  This is quite a turn from the way things used to be before the sixties, when most conversions were from left to right, rather than right to left.  What has not changed, however, is thewidespread hypocrisy and mendacity evinced by intellectuals of all political persuasions, right, left, or center.  In that sense, nothing has changed since Benda and Orwell published their famous critiques of intellectuals in the first half of the twentieth century.	2002-07-11
US	51345940	R1Q88PGYMI05OL	0415078652	963984611	The Open Universe: An Argument for Indeterminism From the Postscript to The Logic of Scientific Discovery	Books	5	35	41	N	N	Surprisingly good arguments in defense of Indeterminism	I started this book expecting to disagree with it.  Although I am not a full-fledged determinist, if I was forced to choose between determinism and indeterminism or \\"free will,\\" I would choose determinism, because the other side of the question is so often used to defend utopian social ideals.  If human beings have free will, then (so it is argued), just about any social system, whether laissez-faire or communism, syndicalism or anarcho-capitalism, becomes possible.  I regard this way of rationalizing political and social ideology as palpably dishonest.  Whether human beings are \\"determined\\" or not, they do in fact exhibit certain very definite tendencies of behavior and reaction which make them, within certain parameters, predictable, so that, if you study human nature and society long enough, you will easily understand why all these systems will never happen, and that only hybrid systems are at all possible.   The other problem I have with indeterminism is that it goes against the grain of scientific methodology.  Scientific knowledge is based on the premise of determinism.  In short, science practices a form of methodological determinism.<br />Popper addressed both my concerns, fully admitting their legitimacy but arguing that they don't necessarily contracdict his indeterminist thesis. The criticism of free will by Hobbes, Spinoza, and Hume, Popper admits, is \\"sound.\\"   But, he insists, that,in and of itself,doesn't establish scientific determinism, and it is scientific determinism that he alone is combatting.  As for methodological determinism, Popper again admits its validity, but denies the \\"metaphysical\\" conclusions that are so frequently derived from it.  Since science is always \\"incomplete,\\" there is no validity in arguing from a useful method to a dogmatic theory about the universe.<br />Popper's arguments for indeterminism are very brilliant and convincing--certainly a lot better than that wretched argument cooked up Murray Rothbard and propagated by AynRand's followers.  Popper stresses the inability to grasp, in a deterministic sense, human creativity, and then goes on to argue that the problem of self-prediction leads determinism to absurdity.<br />It is always refreshing to come across a book that is actually rational enough to change one's mind.  Most philosophy books generally are of the preaching-to-the-choir variety: if you agree with their conclusions, you will think them brilliant; if you don't, you will regard them as silly and inept.  Popper is a cut above these mere rationalizing philosophers.  His books are addressed to those who are sincerely interested in learning the truth about the universe.  As for those who desire merely to have their own pet ideas reinforced, they should look elsewhere.	2002-07-03
US	51345940	RNERK72JYNKKG	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	3	11	19	N	N	Rand's versus the Austrians	The importance of this book stems almost entirely from its status as the first polemical defense of a \\"pure\\" form of laissez-faire since Spencer's \\"Man Versus the State.\\"  Advocates of this singular ideology are nearly universal in its praise, and some of the essays in the book (particularly Rand's \\"Roots of War\\") are regarded by laissez-faire enthusiasts as timeless classics.  Those who are not sympathetic with laissez-faire will have an entirely different opinion of the book's worth, but that's always the case with partisan political tracts: they appeal only to those who already agree with the views propagated therein.  If you agree with Rand's political ideals, this book will seem like manna from heaven.  If you don't, you will regard it as jejune rubbish. That is the trouble with ideological political writing: it nearly always amounts to little more than preaching to the choir.<br />As a propagandist, Rand had at least one thing going for her that separated her from pack: she had a \\"vision\\" of things, an ability to see political and social phenomenon in a larger than life frame of reference and to describe and project that vision in incisive and compelling terms. And while there is much in this vision that deserves scientific criticism, one aspect of it  really ought to be better appreciated.  I have in mind Rand's contention that it is a creative minority that is decisive to the success of the free market, rather than the \\"consumer sovereignty\\" preached by the Austrians. Mark Skousen has challenged Rand's vision of capitalism from the Austrian point of view. But Rand's vision, at least on this issue, comes closer to the facts.  <br />It is regrettable that Rand chose to integrate this largely correct vision with an over-romanticized view of business.  Her contention that everything \\"bad\\" ever associated with capitalism is either not really bad or is caused by government interference in the market is simply not supported by the historical evidence, if for no other reason that business and politics have always been inextricably connected and that it is a veritable law of society for it to be this way.	2002-04-26
US	51345940	R9CEZO6EQTDV3	1576105202	76809652	Gimp: The Official Handbook: Learn the Ins and Outs of Gimp from the Masters Who Wrote the GIMP User's Manual on The Web	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Mediocre, Web version for free	Like so much in the opensource world, this book is not designed for the ease of it's users.  The authors show little concern for accessebility or introducing their material in a structured, sensible manner befitting a primer on Gimp.  This book, at best, has value as a reference work...	2002-03-12
US	51345940	R3J23MPUDL9U9B	0865970092	76985653	A Vindication of Natural Society	Books	3	5	21	N	N	A very odd parody of political radicalism	I was a little startled by an earlier review of this work that suggested that Burke's parody of Bolingbroke could possibly be taken seriously as a work of political insight.  And although there have been scholars who have suggested (without supporting evidence) that Burke meant the work to be taken seriously, it is difficult for anyone familiar with Burke's later writings to regard &quot;Vindication&quot; as anything other than a rather dismal parady. The later writings all display qualities sadly lacking in this work, especially the subtlety of thought and nuanced insights featured in &quot;The Reflections on the French Revolution.&quot;  Anyone who could take this work seriously merely displays a kind of political obtuseness that goes against the very sophistacated, practice-rooted political thinking  exemplified by Burke.  It is rather laughable that a radical thinker like Godwin should have mined Burke's parody for insights.  It demonstrates all to well the essential shallowness of radical political thought.	2001-12-04
US	51345940	R22RAFSBI0A98F	0691007608	309831974	Medieval Cities: Their Origins and the Revival of Trade	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Pathbreaking work in historical scholarship	This is a groundbreaking work in the study of the so-called &quot;Dark Ages.&quot;  Pirenne, one of the great scholars and historians of the 20th century, discovered that the economic destitution of Western Europe during the 8th, 9th, and 10th centuries was a consequence, not of the barbarian invasions, as is commonly supposed, but of the Islamic presence in the Mediterranean.  The astonishing advance of Islam into Northern Africa, Spain, and Syria during the 7th and 8th centuries meant that Western Europe lost control of the Mediterranean.  It became, as Pirenne puts it, a &quot;Moslem lake,&quot; and because of this, Western Europe found itself in what amounted to a state of virtual blockade.  All the trading routes to the East were cut off and Gaul and other Western European countries were thrown back on their own resources.  Bereft of the economic lifeblood of trade, cities shrunk into insignifance.  Marseilles, once a thriving seaport, became a ghost town.  The Middle Class ceased to exist.  Complete autarky reigned in the West.  The economic devestation was so bad that Charlemagne's government could not collect any taxes.  All of Charlemagne's revenues came from his own estates.<br />In &quot;Medieval Cities,&quot; Pirenne not only sketches the economic disintegration of Western Europe, he also details the revival of trade and the emergence of a flourishing medieval civilization in the 10th, 11th, and 12th centuries.  How did Western Europe pull itself out of the dark ages?  Pirenne's brief answer is simple: by reclaiming control of the Mediterranean and thereby opening up sea routes to the East.  With the formation of a new merchant class there arose cities and a new social class of great significance: the Middle Class, destined in the centuries to follow to lead Europe into the age of industrialism, democracy, and world supremacy.<br />Pirenne's work represents a milestone in historiography.  Its central thesis about the main causes of the dark ages, which is accepted by European historians like Braudel, is greatly underappreciated here in America, where we find secularists and anti-religious zealots still spreading the lie that Christianity caused the dark ages.  Pirenne, with his profound research and impeccable scholarship, tells us what really happened.  An extremely important work--highly recommended.	2001-08-14
US	51345940	R1PGCOUYD3R5PR	0765800608	329254809	The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand: Truth and Toleration in Objectivism	Books	3	26	57	N	N	Could be criticized for belaboring obvious	The great philosopher Karl Popper once noted that any denial of the dualism between fact and standards (or fact and values) &quot;is dangerous,&quot; because those who believe they have found an objective morality may seek to impose it on other people.  Ayn Rand, in her so-called &quot;Objectivist&quot; philosophy, believed she had found a way around Popper's stricture.  By combining an objective morality with an uncompromisingly individualistic, anti-aggression politics, Rand could argue that her philosophy escaped the totalitarian taint of previous ideologies that denied the fact-value dualism.  Although morality is objective, this doesn't mean, Rand contended, that the government should used force to impose moral values on people.  One of the most important moral values in hierarchy of ethics are those supporting the freedom of the individual, even if this means the freedom to be immoral.  Freedom, then, must come first.  But this doesn't mean that the individual himself must approve of how other people use (or misuse, as the case may be) their freedom.  As an implacable moralizer, Rand insisted that everyone, morally, had an obligation to &quot;judge&quot; other people.  This passion of Rand's inspired in her a hatred of tolerance, a value essential to democracy and freedom.  Rand's faithful protege, Leonard Peikoff, has followed Rand's lead and waged furious and uncompromising polemical war against tolerance.  In an essay entitled &quot;Fact and Value,&quot; Peikoff attacked fellow Objectivist David Kelley for not appreciating how immoral it is to be tolerant of other people.  Kelley had been pushing the envelope for years within Objectivist circles with his &quot;outrageously&quot; tolerant attitudes.  He had suggested, for example, that not every academic marxist has horns and tail or is dripping with evil and that it is possible to learn from someone you disagree with.  Peikoff would have none of it.  He charged Kelley with defending the &quot;dichotomy between fact and value&quot; and boasted of having broken off all relations with so reprobate a thinker.<br />&quot;The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand&quot; is Kelley's reply to Peikoff's &quot;Fact and Value.&quot;  Kelley attempts to use Randian conceptual analysis to defend a kind of mitigated tolerance.  He argues that ideas, in and of themselves, can only become evil once they are acted upon.  This being the case, he concludes that we should not necessarily judge a person because he or she espouses bad ideas.  We must first determine whether the person has acted on those ideas.  Kelley also warns about the difficulty of distinguishing between a person who mistakenly holds bad ideas and one who holds them maliciously, with intent to be evil.<br />I fear many readers will find all this a rather tedious exercise in belaboring the obvious.  What is extraordinary is not so much that Kelley should write a book defending tolerance but that such a debate should be taking place at all, or that advocates of a philosophy that supposedly supports freedom and opposes any initiating of aggression should be arguing over whether tolerance is a virtue.  Tolerance may not be the most immaculate and perfect of all virtues, but the alternatives to tolerance are very much worse.  Intolerance breeds hatred, social division, senseless rivalry and, ultimately, violence.  How can any decent person possibly support that?  Nonetheless, I believe that &quot;unimatrix&quot; has a point in accusing Kelley of being confused about Objectivism.  If you believe, as all good Randites are supposed to believe, that &quot;reason&quot; can discover objective moral absolutes that can be validated beyond all doubt, then I do not see how one can escape Peikoff's position that tolerance is essentially vicious.  And if you add to this espousal of moral certainty the view that moral ideas are important factors in political and social change and that bad moral ideas lead to widespread misery and death, then themoral obligation to practice intolerance seems unavoidable.  For if the existence of civilization depends on the espousal of the right ideas, then of course bad ideas must not be tolerated.  In the final analysis, Peikoff is a more logical thinker than Kelley.  If Peikoff can be criticized at all on this issue, it is for not being logical enough: for if it is really true that the espousal of a bad idea can lead to widespread devastation and misery, it is hard to escape the conclusion that bad ideas must be put down by force.  The Objectivist view of moral certainty, if taken to its logical extreme, would lead to a totalitarianism of the most uncompromising sort.  We can only hope that Rand's followers will continue to be poor logicians.  Otherwise, they would seek to become grand inquisitors intent on stamping out heresy!moral obligation to practice intolerance seems unavoidable.  For if the existence of civilization depends on the espousal of the right ideas, then of course bad ideas must not be tolerated.  In the final analysis, Peikoff is a more logical thinker than Kelley.  If Peikoff can be criticized at all on this issue, it is for not being logical enough: for if it is really true that the espousal of a bad idea can lead to widespread devastation and misery, it is hard to escape the conclusion that bad ideas must be put down by force.  The Objectivist view of moral certainty, if taken to its logical extreme, would lead to a totalitarianism of the most uncompromising sort.  We can only hope that Rand's followers will continue to be poor logicians.  Otherwise, they would seek to become grand inquisitors intent on stamping out heresy!	2001-08-03
US	51345940	R2BFLPHKQ5PY45	0465056741	948062344	Philosophy in the Flesh: the Embodied Mind & its Challenge to Western Thought	Books	4	97	115	N	N	Important insights vitiated by mediocre intrepretive analysi	For over two millenia, nearly all worldly knowledge was regarded as falling under the general heading of philosophy.  Physics, psychology, politics, and even economics were all regarded as various branches of study growing out of a single, philosophical trunk.  Aristotle, the most systematic of the ancient philosophers, even dabbled in biology.  But as human knowledge advanced, these various branches of study broke off from the philosophic stem and established themselves as independent sciences in their own right.  Philosophy soon found itself reduced to metaphysics, morals, aesthetics, and epistemology.  But now even epistemology is trying to break away.  &quot;Philosophy in the Flesh&quot; documents the attempt of &quot;cognitive science&quot; to make epistemology an empirical science separate from philosophy.  Its authors, Lakoff and Johnson, seek to challenge the largely introspective and &quot;a priori&quot; speculations of philosophical epistemology, which they regard as discreditable.<br />&quot;Philosophy in the Flesh&quot; commences by laying down three major findings of cognitive science: (1) that the mind is inherently embodied; (2) that thought is mostly unconscious; and (3) that abstract concepts are largely metaphorical.  Assuming that these three findings are true (and, according to Lakoff &amp; Johnson, they are empirically validated beyond any question), then it follows that many of the central tenets of the major philosophic traditions must be dismissed as hopelessly inadequate.  &quot;Once we understand the importance of the cognitive unconscious, the embodiment of mind, and metaphorical thought,&quot; our intrepid authors advice us, &quot;we can never go back to a priori philosophizing about mind and language or to philosophical ideas of what a person is that are inconsistent with what we are learning about the mind.&quot;<br />All this is very important.  If true, it constitutes one of the great revolutions in philosophy and science.  But are Lakoff &amp; Johnson the men to carry it out?  No, I do not think so.  They may be competent scholars and solid citizens within the academic fold, but their philosophical interpretation of the empirical data of cognitive science definitely leaves something to be desired.  While I whole-heartedly agree with their contention that philosophy needs to become more empirically responsible, empiricism, though vital and necessary, is not enough.  The empirical facts must by synthesized into a grand interpretive vision, and this can only be done by a philosopher of genius.  And indeed, in some respects, it already has been done.  Most of the valid points in Lakoff's &amp; Johnson's book have been made by philosophers working within the critical realist tradition, especially the philosopher George Santayana.  Lakoff and Johnson operate under the illusion that the findings of cognitive science are radically new, but they are not: they simply are new to those whose philosophical knowledge doesn't extend beyond the major traditions taught within academia.  Yet well before second generation cognitive science, Santayana had been arguing that the mind has a natural locus within the body, that it contains a large &quot;vegatative&quot; (i.e., unconscious) component, and that concepts (and, indeed, all knowledge) are essentially metaphorical.  Cognitive science, in discovering and validating these great truths, merely affirms what Santayana contended throughout his long philosophic career.  If we could but merge the findings of cognitive science on the one hand with Santayana's philosophic vision of man and his spirit, we might at last have the honest, empirically responsible philosophy which Lakoff &amp; Johnson are so eager to provide for us and which, thanks to analytic and rationalist philosophy, we have so desparately lacked.	2001-07-25
US	51345940	R2EMJZSTX4DFZX	0815404255	336335961	Realms of Being (4 volumes)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Masterpiece of poetic naturalism	Don't let the fact that this book is out of print fool you.  &quot;Realms of Being&quot; is one of the greatest works of philosophy ever written.  It demonstrates a subtlety of argument and an interpretive vision which places Santayana head and shoulders above his better known contemporaries (e.g., Russell, Dewey, Wittgenstien).  Since Plato, most of Western Philosophy has labored under the delusion that &quot;true&quot; knowledge is certain and demonstrable, rather than conjectural and provisional, in nature, &quot;episteme&quot; rather than &quot;doxa.&quot;  This view of knowledge goes hand in hand with the underlying premise of nearly all philosophy since Descartes---namely, the view that a man's own ideas, perceptions, concepts (call them what you will) are the most certain things he knows, and that knowledge, in its most profound and fundamental state, is nothing more and nothing less than the intuition of ideas.<br />In &quot;Scepticism and Animal Faith,&quot; Santayana challenged &amp; refuted the (idealist) contention that knowledge is intuition of ideas.  The mere experience of an idea, Santayana argued, is without cognitive significance.  It is solipsism, not knowledge.  Ideas only become knowledge when they are taken for symbols representing an external, substantive reality.  In &quot;Realms of Being,&quot; Santayana develops all the important implications of this basic insight into human knowledge.  In the first volume of the book, he examines the &quot;Realm of Essence.&quot;  Essences, for Santayana, are merely the mental constiuents of description, the form under which things appear to the mind.  But although these essences describe or represent the qualities of things in the external world, they are not themselves external existences, but are merely signs or symbols which mediate between the mind and the world.  Knowledge of reality, then, is indirect and transitive.  For this reason, no idea can ever be perfectly adequate.  Reality is far too richand complex to be adequately represented in human symbolization.  But for the practical purposes of living in the world---for eating, hunting, working, avoiding dangers, making love---the human mind will suffice.  Nevertheless, human knowledge, because of its implacable mediacy, can never be certain.  Knowledge, for Santayana, must always remain faith mediated by symbols, doxa rather than episteme.<br />In the second volume, &quot;Realm of Matter,&quot; Santayana draws out some of the implications of his view that reality must be substantive, that is, it must be something and not simply our idea of something.  In the third volume, the &quot;Realm of Truth,&quot; he offers a series of very original &amp; subtle arguments against the idea of &quot;necessary&quot; truth and logical facts.  Facts are arbitrary, truth contingent, and logic ideal.  The mind is &quot;platonic from the beginning&quot;; but reality itself is not platonic.  <br />In the final volume of the book, the &quot;Realm of Spirit,&quot; Santayana offers a sympathetic critique of several contrasting visions of the spiritual life, trying to extract from each of them their true wisdom in helping the afficted spirit make its way through its pilgrimage in life.  The consequence is a naturalistic defense of spirituality.  &quot;Spirit pursues a perfection more inward and chastened than world arts and ambitions,&quot; Santayana writes; &quot;but it would not exist or have a possible perfection to pursue, if it were not a natural faculty in a natural soul.&quot;	2001-07-25
US	51345940	R3KSER5QHRDD3Z	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Empirical Science's take on Human Nature	The title of this book is something of a misnomer.  The book is about more than just the mind: it is about the entire human being, with special focus on the motivational complexes stemming, in part at least, from innate, genetic factors within the human organism.  Pinker discusses human nature from the viewpoint of evolutionary psychology.  &quot;Our physical organs owe their complex design to the information in the human genome,&quot; Pinker argues, &quot;and so, I believe, do our mental organs.&quot;  Starting from this premise, he attempts to &quot;reverse engineer&quot; the innate characteristics of human beings, assuming that man's genetic endowment is shaped by natural selection.  &quot;Reverse-engineering is possible only when one has a hint of what the device was designed to accomplish,&quot; Pinker argues.  And what, may we ask, was the human device meant to accomplish?  Well, since most of the evolution affecting the human mind and human motivational psychology took place during the hunterer-gatherer stage of human development, the human device was engineered to spread its genetics under conditions affecting men when they lived on the savannahs in Africa.  This curious thesis, which many will automatically dismiss as absurd, is, under Pinker's advocacy, far more convincing then one would assume at first glance.  Pinker marshals a host of fascinating evidence which demonstrates that, whether his basic thesis is correct or not, it certainly cannot be dismissed as implausible.<br />But the real value of the book is not so much its espousal of the controversial theories stemming out of evolutionary psychology, but its brilliantly empirical description of human nature.  From the very start, Pinker admits that his book represents &quot;a departure from the dominant view of the human mind in our intellectual tradition, which [is known as] the Standard Social Science Model (SSSM).&quot;  According to the SSSM, human nature is largely the product of arbitrary cultural factors.  Rejecting an innate human nature, SSSM goes on to conclude that social engineers (e.g., Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, Castro) can make of human beings what they please.  This point of view, which is seen as &quot;progressive&quot; and benign, is totalitarian in practice.  As Pinker points out, &quot;If people's stated desires were just some kind of erasable inscription or reprogrammable brainwashing, any atrocity could be justified.&quot;<br />The issue over whether human nature is innate is probably the most important question facing social theorists and political philosophers.  Pinker's innate biological view of the human mind leads him to adopt what is essentially the view of conservatives and traditional Christianity: the view, in short, that human beings are limited in their moral and spiritual potential, that, in other words, they are tainted by their biological inheritance.  Ironically, Pinker, a materialist, Darwinist and atheist believes in a scientific version of the Christian doctrine of original sin.  Christians and evolutionists have long been at odds over cosmology, but on the nature of man, they more or less speak with the same voice.  After more 500 pages of analyzing the scientific evidence relating to human nature, Pinker concludes with the following sobering assessment: &quot;No one needs a scientist to measure whether humans are prone to knavery.  The question has been answered in the history books, the newspapers, the ethnographic record, and the letters to Ann Landers.  But people treat it like an open question, as if someday science might discover that it's all a bad dream and we will wake up to find that it is human nature to love one another.&quot;  Pinker's book is important precisely because it refutes once and for all the romantic notion that human nature is essentially good.  For this reason alone, the book must be regarded as essential reading.ral factors.  Rejecting an innate human nature, SSSM goes on to conclude that social engineers (e.g., Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, Castro) can make of human beings what they please.  This point of view, which is seen as &quot;progressive&quot; and benign, is totalitarian in practice.  As Pinker points out, &quot;If people's stated desires were just some kind of erasable inscription or reprogrammable brainwashing, any atrocity could be justified.&quot;<br />The issue over whether human nature is innate is probably the most important question facing social theorists and political philosophers.  Pinker's innate biological view of the human mind leads him to adopt what is essentially the view of conservatives and traditional Christianity: the view, in short, that human beings are limited in their moral and spiritual potential, that, in other words, they are tainted by their biological inheritance.  Ironically, Pinker, a materialist, Darwinist and atheist believes in a scientific version of the Christian doctrine of original sin.  Christians and evolutionists have long been at odds over cosmology, but on the nature of man, they more or less speak with the same voice.  After more 500 pages of analyzing the scientific evidence relating to human nature, Pinker concludes with the following sobering assessment: &quot;No one needs a scientist to measure whether humans are prone to knavery.  The question has been answered in the history books, the newspapers, the ethnographic record, and the letters to Ann Landers.  But people treat it like an open question, as if someday science might discover that it's all a bad dream and we will wake up to find that it is human nature to love one another.&quot;  Pinker's book is important precisely because it refutes once and for all the romantic notion that human nature is essentially good.  For this reason alone, the book must be regarded as essential reading.	2001-07-17
US	51345940	R1LT6IPUTSQYRJ	0812693736	265443198	What Art Is: The Esthetic Theory of Ayn Rand	Books	4	21	31	N	N	Surprisingly good, despite some flaws	I did not expect to like this book. Rand's esthetics are the part of her philosophy I find most deplorable.  And although Torres and Kamhi are not slavish admirers of Rand who follow her every word, I can't say I cared much for their dreary essentialism.  Rand was part of the Aristotlean tradition in philosophy.  Her philosophy is more telogically centered than the naturalism of the pre-Socratics or modern science.  It also embraces a form of &quot;methdological essentialism,&quot; as the philosopher Karl Popper dubbed it, which I find hard to take, especially in strong doses.  Methodological essentialists stress the importance of &quot;What is&quot; questions and the definitions of words.  Torres and Kamhi, like Rand herself, are uncompromising definition mongers and &quot;what is&quot; analyzers. But I don't think esthetic questions can be solved by answering such questions as &quot;What is art?&quot; or &quot;What is literature?&quot; or by claiming that the bad, non-representational art of modernism and post-modernism is not really art at all, but a kind of fraudulent non-art pretending to be art.  Torres and Kamhi stress the importance of defining art, but I have little use for this mode of analysis.  Emphasis on definitions simply leads to hopeless arguments about words.  I would much rather know why some works of art are successful and some not than know how art should be defined.  Art is far too complicated to be summed up in essence of some definition.  What I want to know is how does this or that piece of art function aesthetically, and if it functions well or poorly, than why?  Science and naturalism emphasize &quot;why&quot; and &quot;how&quot; questions.  This is what I would have liked to see from Torres and Kamhi.  But being from the Socratic/Aristotlean tradition in philosophy, they have a different methodological point of view on this matter, one I find hopelessly inferior to the methodological nominalism of the sciences.<br />Nevertheless, despitethese criticisms, I urge all those who are interested in art to read the book, regardless of what they think of Rand.  The book is written on a much higher level than most pro-Rand books that are published nowadays.  Torres and Kamhi, unlike Rand's orthodox disciples, at least are sound scholars with an appreciation for empirical evidence and close logical analysis.  They are fair to opposing viewpoints (unlike Rand herself, who treated opponents as if they were sub-human), and they provide an excellent overview of the excesses of modern and post-modern art.  Merely as a phillipic against bad art (or, as the authors would insist, &quot;non-art&quot;), I would give this book a five star rating.  But because of the methodological essentialism, I have to drop it down to four.  The emphasis on definitions really can get annoying.	2001-07-04
US	51345940	R385506HKIG3CN	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	1	223	369	N	N	Only for Rand admirers; not for the rest of us	Critical judgment of Rand's controversial novel must ultimately depend on the reviewer's standards of criticism. For those who are sympathetic to Rand's general philosophic view, &quot;Atlas&quot; must be given hard marks--that much all fair-minded individuals can agree upon. Admirers of Rand who, for some reason or another, have never read this work, hardly need a critic of Rand like myself to tell them they ought to look the thing over. There are plenty of Randites who can fulfill the office of recommending &quot;Atlas&quot; to other Randites. But what about those who are not admirers of Rand and who do not sympathize with her philosophical views? Should they take the trouble to read Rand's massive tome? If Rand's admirers are correct in their view that &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; is a great masterpiece, we might think that anyone seeking to be well-read ought to add &quot;Atlas&quot; to their reading list. But suppose this is not the case; suppose &quot;Atlas&quot; is not one of the greatest novels ever written. If so, it would be a waste of time for any non-Randian to read it. It is this question that I will address in this review. Should non-Randians read &quot;Atlas&quot; because it qualifies as great literature? Or should they avoid it precisely because, as literature, it fails?<br />If we examine &quot;Atlas&quot; solely on the grounds of literary criticism, rather than as a work of philosophy or propaganda, I believe that our verdict on the work must be largely negative. I say this, not because of the glaring weaknesses in the novel's characterizations and its painfully artificial contrivances of plot (although these certainly are serious enough problems), but because of a far more serious defect that towers over purely technical concerns. I have in mind the prevailing attitude which the novel projects, an attitude of blistering, passionate hatred towards anyone who disagrees with the ideas which the novel seeks to propagate. Rand was passionate not only about her ideas, but also about those who had the temerity to differ with her on any significant issue. This passion is present on nearly every page of the book. Anyone who disagrees with Rand can hardly miss it. In the seventy page speech by the novel's hero toward the end of the book, it practically leaps off the page and grabs the offending reader by the throat. If you don't care for Rand's ideas, you would have to be a masochist to read this novel.<br />This is why the praise of the novel by Rand's admirers is misleading. Since they agree with Rand, they don't notice the degree to which she abuses those whose views differ from her own. Lacking in empathy for anyone who has the gall to think differently from Rand, it never occurs to them how offensive &quot;Atlas&quot; is to the nonbeliever. But it is a plain fact to any non-Randian who has trudged his way through its eleven hundred pages of hate. Now it should be obvious to any cultured individual that any novel which projects furious, unbridled hatred towards those who do not agree with its author can hardly be regarded as a work of great literature. You look at any great novel--say, for instance, Tolstoy's &quot;War and Peace&quot; or Drieser's &quot;Sister Carrie--and you will find that disagreement with the author's political and moral views do not in any serious way compromise enjoyment of the novel. Tolstoy was a pacifist and Drieser a communist; but you don't have to be a peacenik or a commie to get something out of reading &quot;War and Peace&quot; or &quot;Sister Carrie.&quot; But unless you are sympathetic with Rand's Objectivist philosophy, you will get nothing out of reading &quot;Atlas&quot; except a massive rhetorical whipping.<br />For this reason, it is really quite beside the point whether &quot;Atlas&quot; has a good plot or is well-written or demonstrates a high-level of literary excellence. As a novel, it fails because it breaks one of the cardinal rules of great fiction: it promotes hatred andcontempt rather than insight and understanding. It is a great work, not of literature, but of philistinism and darkness. Whitaker Chamber's, in his notorious review of Rand's novel, tried to capture the attitude Rand projects towards dissenters with a metaphor that has ever since enraged the novel's admirers. &quot;From almost any page of Atlas Shrugged,&quot; Chambers wrote, &quot;a voice can be heard, from painful necessity, commanding: 'To a gas chamber--go!'&quot; While I can understand the outrage of Rand's partisans at this remark (they make the mistake of taking it literally), if you understand exactly what Chamber's was driving at, you will realize that, far from slandering the book, Chambers has merely used a metaphor to more vividly describe the prevailing spirit of the novel. And although Rand certainly would have opposed literally sending people to gas chambers, it is clear from the tone of the work that she desired some kind of awful punishment to be visited upon those who dared to resist her message. But books written with this kind of scathing hatred and contempt for humanity are not worth the trouble of reading. &quot;Atlas&quot; will long remain a favorite work for those who admire the author's ideology. But as for the rest of us, we must regard the work as a curious abomination, not fit to be read as literature.	2001-07-04
US	51345940	R1362NEZBOO60Q	0865970041	522781199	Freedom and Reform	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The economist as an independent thinker	This is not a book for those looking for arguments to defend this or that ideological position.  Frank Knight was far too critical and independent minded to ever be a defender of ideology.  He had no interest in being a mere propagandist for free market economics or the mantras of classical liberalism.  Although Knight regarded himself as an old-fashioned, nineteenth century liberal, he was well aware of the faults of classical liberalism, and he wrote about them with a candor and honesty sure to annoy the true believers of that creed.  In fact, several of the essays in &quot;Freedom and Reform&quot; are critiques of what used to be staples of liberal belief: freedom, free markets, individualism, etc.  Knight argues that, however important these ideas may be in the context of a free and democratic society, we would be lying to ourselves if we did not acknowledge their flaws.  Individualism, Knight points out, is based on the &quot;fundamental error&quot; of taking the individual as given.  What exists in society is not so much &quot;individualism,&quot; but, more to the point, of what Knight calls &quot;familism.&quot;  &quot;Some sort of family life, and far beyond that, some kind of wider primary-group and culture-group life, of a considerable degree of stability, must be taken as they are, as data,&quot; he insists.  There is an important point here that has not been understood by liberal rationalists.  Human beings are in fact social creatures, and if they are deprived of the social bonds of the family, they will search for a substitute elsewhere.  Is this not one of the major causes behind multiculturalism and the group-fanaticism of the Left?  Rootless individuals, deprived of familial bonds, look to race or gender or sexual orientation to provide what the family no longer can.<br />Knight's basic approach is to supplement the rationalistic analysis typical of social science (especially economics) with a strong dose of common sense.  Anyone with even a moderate sense of social reality knows that human beings are not the rational calculators or profit maximizers envisioned by economists.  &quot;It has become clear that people individually, and much more so in collectivities, are not very rational,&quot; Knight points out.  &quot;Man typically describes himself as an intelligent animal-Homo sapiens; but the main significance of this seems to be that man loves to compliment himself and considers this the highest compliment.  'Intelligence' is a word of numerous meanings, and with respect to all of them man is both a stupid animal and a romantic, preferring emotion to reason and fiction to truth.&quot;  By keeping the limitations of human nature in mind at all times, Knight is able to see through the cant of the social sciences.  He is perceptive not only in regards to libertarians and classical liberals, but even more so to radicals and left-liberals.   His review essay on Dewey's &quot;Liberalism and Social Action&quot; is devastating.  And his analysis of Marxism in the essay &quot;Ethics and Economic Reform&quot; is one of the best ever.  The essential hypocrisy and nihilism of the Marxist creed has rarely been stated with such force and clarity.  &quot;For in plain factual appraisal, what [Marxians] are doing is more catastrophically evil than treason, or poisoning the wells, or other acts commonly placed at the head of the list of crimes,&quot; Knight declared.  &quot;The moralisation of destruction, and of combat with a view to destruction, goes with the kind of hero-worship that merges into devil worship.  Such phenomena show that human nature has potentialities that are horrible.&quot;  Knight wrote this in 1939, long before the atrocities of Stalin were well understood in the West.  It is to be regretted that, even to this day, there are professors in American universities incapable of understanding the points Knight makes concerning the Marxist creed.	2001-06-27
US	51345940	R2WIU97OK54C9U	0684833328	338713165	The Moral Sense (Free Press Paperback)	Books	5	84	96	N	N	A rarity: a book on morality worth reading	Generally speaking, I have little use for books on morality.  Anyone who needs to be given reasons in a book not to rape, rob or steal is someone not to be trusted.  Books on morality, at best, are merely rationalizations of what all decent people believe anyway, and I fail to understand what is the point of that.  But James Q. Wilson's &quot;The Moral Sense&quot; is a different kind of book on morality.  Instead of trying to prove that murder is wrong or genocide evil, Wilson attempts to explain the origin of widespread beliefs concerning moral issues.  His thesis is quite simple: morality, he argues, is based on human nature.  In pursuing this goal, he makes no effort to state or justify moral rules, but seeks only to clarify what ordinary people mean when they speak about moral feelings and to explain the source of those feelings.  Wilson regards this book as a continuation of the work begun by 18th century British philosophers, most notably David Hume and Adam Smith.  He adds to this tradition a wealth of evidence from the biological and social sciences.  The empirical examples Wilson has collected to illustrate his arguments are fascinating.  &quot;The Moral Sense&quot; is not only the best book on morality written in the last fifty years, it also one of the best primers on the latest scientific evidence relating to human nature.  For this alone, the book deserves high marks.  It refutes the widely held notion that human nature is culturally malleable and that, with the right education and upbringing, the nature of man can be radically changed.  Anyone who aspires to be educated and to understand what science has discovered about human beings needs to read this book.  They will learn more about man and society from this book then all the text books they ever read in university courses in the social sciences.	2001-06-05
US	51345940	R1AWZSLMCCFRCP	0521577667	110181016	Prize Essay on the Freedom of the Will (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	52	61	N	N	Shedding light on the &quot;free will&quot; confusion	There are few subjects in philosophy which breed so much confusion as this entire issue of &quot;free will&quot; verses determinism.  Schopenhauer, who understood human will perhaps better than any philosopher (since will was central to his entire system of thought) contributes what may be the single best work on the subject.  Starting where Locke, Hume, and Kant left off, Schopenhauer demonstrates that all versions of the free will doctrine are incoherent and fundamentally opposed to the basic presuppositions of human knowing.  His argument is based on the simple idea that human willing contains certain uniformities that allow us to judge other people's character, and that in the absence of these uniformities, it would make no sense to hold people responsible for what they have done.  If human beings really had free will in the traditional sense of the concept, their behavior would be inextricably unfathomable.  Schopenhauer, as one of the few philosophers to really understand what is at issue in the whole debate, shows that, under the assumption of freedom of the will, a man's &quot;character must be from the very beginning a tabula rasa...and cannot have any inborn inclination to one side or the other.&quot;  This point of view, however, would utterly destroy the conception of human nature illustrated by the classics of World Literature and the researches of social scientists.  Under the free will premise, individuals would have no set character at all, and men in general would have no common nature.  It would be useless to study the humanities or the social sciences in order to learn about human beings, because there would be no common human nature.  Human beings would either be the products of pure chance, or they would be spontaneous &quot;self-creators,&quot; devising their personalities ex nihilio, out of nothing.<br />Schopenhauer's understanding of the confusion embedded at the very heart of the free will doctrine allows him to lay the groundwork for what is probably the most important insight into the whole problem of determinism verses free will.  And while Schopenhauer never explicitly grasped this insight, it is implicit in his analysis nonetheless.  This insight is simply the idea that what is important in life is not knowledge of whether human beings, in some obscure and probably meaningless sense, have &quot;free will,&quot; but knowledge of how they are actually likely to behave.  The whole free will controversy is a product of the anti-scientific teleological philosophy propagated by Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.  But science doesn't give a fig whether individuals, in some ultimate sense of the word, can help being what they are.  What the scientist wants to know is not whether people are &quot;free,&quot; but how they are likely to act in any given situation.  So often those advocating free will are motivated by nothing more than the desire to rationalize their unwillingness to accept a scientific conception of human nature.  They want to believe that human beings are capable of a degree of moral development which seems improbable in light of all the relevant evidence.  So they take refuge in the notion that, because human beings have &quot;free will,&quot; they can adopt any kind of nature they please, thus liberating themselves from the constraints of human tradition and social morality and bringing forth the utopian paradise of their fantasies.<br />Those who are eager to understand the reality of human willing and its primacy in understanding what human life is all about are advised to read Schopenhaeur's elegant writings on the subject, included this masterpiece on the freedom of the will.is probably the most important insight into the whole problem of determinism verses free will.  And while Schopenhauer never explicitly grasped this insight, it is implicit in his analysis nonetheless.  This insight is simply the idea that what is important in life is not knowledge of whether human beings, in some obscure and probably meaningless sense, have &quot;free will,&quot; but knowledge of how they are actually likely to behave.  The whole free will controversy is a product of the anti-scientific teleological philosophy propagated by Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.  But science doesn't give a fig whether individuals, in some ultimate sense of the word, can help being what they are.  What the scientist wants to know is not whether people are &quot;free,&quot; but how they are likely to act in any given situation.  So often those advocating free will are motivated by nothing more than the desire to rationalize their unwillingness to accept a scientific conception of human nature.  They want to believe that human beings are capable of a degree of moral development which seems improbable in light of all the relevant evidence.  So they take refuge in the notion that, because human beings have &quot;free will,&quot; they can adopt any kind of nature they please, thus liberating themselves from the constraints of human tradition and social morality and bringing forth the utopian paradise of their fantasies.  <br />Those who are eager to understand the reality of human willing and its primacy in understanding what human life is all about are advised to read Schopenhaeur's elegant writings on the subject, included this masterpiece on the freedom of the will.	2001-05-29
US	51345940	RY3DIMBLIJBJF	0815403615	34029779	Three philosophical poets: Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe (Harvard studies in comparative literature)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Brilliant introduction to major philosophical traditions	This remarkable book is composed of six lectures which Santayana read at Columbia University in 1910--lectures based on a regular course he taught at Harvard College.  It is extraordinary that there should ever have been university lectures of such outstanding quality.  It is doubtful that we have anything to approach it today.  As merely a book, \\"Three Philosophical Poets\\" is a masterpiece of style and interpretation.  The three philosophical poets of the title are Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe, each of whom represents the three main sources of the major speculative systems of Western philosophy.  Lucretius, the materialist, is the poet of naturalism; Dante, the Christian and Platonist, is the poet of supernaturalism; and Goethe, the romanticist, is the poet of experience and idealism.<br />What gives this book its special excellence is Santayana's ability to describe each of the traditions with sympathetic understanding.  Although a materialist himself, Santayana does not use the book do advance any specific philosophical agenda.  He does not try to score points against the speculative traditions he dislikes (e.g. romanticism, idealism), nor does he make any effort to trump the materialism that he favored or the Catholicism he admired.  Instead, he seeks to uncover the special motivations and passions that lead to each tradition, showing how even the most dubious philosophical ideas have a sort of plausibility when one understands how intensely human they are.  For example, the supernaturalism of Dante is ultimately an expression of the idea that things are to be understood by their uses or purposes.  This, in the final analysis, is what unites Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle with the Christian tradition.  The Greek naturalists, on the other hand, had a totally different view.  \\"Nothing arises in the body in order that we may use it,\\" insisted Lucretius, \\"but what arises brings forth its use.\\"  Here we have a discarding of final causes typical not merely of naturalism, but of modern science as well.<br />There is no better introduction to materialism-naturalism, platonism-Christianity, and romanticism-idealism.  Santayana clears up scores of misconceptions which have developed regarding these traditions and shows that no philosophical vision can be entirely just to the totality of human life if it does not take into consideration at least some of the insights peculiar to each of these traditions.  It does not speak well for our culture that this beautifully written work should have been allowed to fall out of print.lism, but of modern science as well.<br />There is no better introduction to materialism-naturalism, platonism-Christianity, and romanticism-idealism.  Santayana clears up scores of misconceptions which have developed regarding these traditions and shows that no philosophical vision can be entirely just to the totality of human life if it does not take into consideration at least some of the insights peculiar to each of these traditions.  It does not speak well for our culture that this beautifully written work should have been allowed to fall out of print.	2001-05-24
US	51345940	R158AQF2VTVKLI	0945466218	581592617	The Austrian Theory of the Trade Cycle and Other Essays	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Useful primer on Austrian Theory	With the economy on the brink of a major collapse, there would seem to be no better time than the present to become reacquainted with the Austrian theory of the trade cycle, since this theory is nearly the only one which can come close to explaining the present crisis.  Whereas most academic economists, under the influence of Keynes, believe that the economy, if manipulated in the right ways by the central banking authorities, can be kept in a state of expansion indefinitely, the Austrians argued for what has been called, by one critic, the &quot;hangover theory,&quot; according to which any attempt to artificially stimulate the economy through a policy of credit inflation and low interest rates is bound to fail in the long run, so that any attempt to prevent a recession by lowering the interest rate can only wind up making things worse.  Now while the Austrian theory in all its manifold details may not provide us with an entirely adequate description of economic reality, it is difficult to argue with the premise that artificially lowering the interest rate through easy money policies must lead to serious economic dislocations down the road.  The cluelessness in regard to this issue demonstrated by most academic economists and by investment analysts merely proves the inveterate irrationality of the majority of the human race and the tremendous influence of wishful thinking on those who do not have the guts to see things as they are.   There is no better introduction to Austrian trade cycle theory than this modest book which includes essays by von Mises, Hayek, Halberler, and Rothbard.  The theory is presented in a clear, succinct manner, so that even economic illiterates have a chance to understand it.  Roger Garrison provides an excellent introduction and summary.<br />Although I regard the Austrian theory as the best so far promulgated, this should not be construed as a full-hearted endorsement of the theory.  In many important respects, the theory is flawed.  Specifically, the theory suffers from two major shortcomings: (1) it is derived entirely from rationalistic speculation based on oversimplified generalizations of economic reality; and (2) it tacitly assumes that human behavior and motivation is far more rational than the facts would suggest.  Given these weaknesses, it's not surprising that only the extreme rationalists within the Austrian movement except the theory in toto, and that many who once accepted (including even Haberler, one of the contributors to this volume) later rejected it.  Perhaps the main reason for this rejection is the view that what causes the recession (or depression) is misallocation of resources within the capital structure.  When interest rates are artificially lowered, this leads (according to the Austrian theory) to over-investment in more durable over less durable capital industries and for temporally more remote rather than less remote stages of production.  This part of the theory has not sit well even with those economists who might otherwise be sympathetic to it.  This is a pity, because this portion of the theory is not even necessary for explaining the phenomenon of economic recessions. In fact, they can be explained in virtue of credit expansion alone.  The key is to merely understand that credit expansion through fractional reserve banking (or the equivalent thereof) is equivalent to debt expansion, since debt is merely the obverse side of credit.  But it should be obvious to those whose common sense has not been debauched by too much Keynsianism that expansion of debt through fractional reserves cannot be carried on indefinitely, since debt of this kind is tantamount to leveraged debt and becomes more and more like a ponzi scheme the longer the banking and treasury authorities allow it to go on.<br />An excellent and important little book. Highly recommended.	2001-05-15
US	51345940	R1AB9IUSN2PPK7	0678008817	692658142	Manual of Political Economy	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A neglected classic	Academic economists are notoriously ill-read within their own discipline.  Many economics professors have never read Adam Smith, Ricardo, J. S. Mill, Walras, Marshall or Menger.  Pareto's Manuel is another forgotten classic.  It's influence on the economics profession is tremendous.  This is probably the most brilliant and forceful presentation of Equilibrium economics ever put down on paper.  But, oddly enough, it wasn't translated into English until 1971, over sixty years after it was first published.<br />What I found most interesting about the Manuel is that the book is strongest precisely in those chapters that don't have anything to do with Equilibrium economics.  Perhaps this is the reason why the book has been ignored.  Pareto was something of an ultra-positivist.  He believed that economics should be a science, which meant it had to be drearily quantitative.  When the Swiss economist Leon Walras inflicted his equilibrium-based, mathematical vision of economics upon the scholarly world, Pareto became an eager convert.  Soon he was not merely Walras' successor at Lausanne, but the world's most preeminent exponent of mathematical economics.  Pareto, however, was not content to restrict his scholarship to concocting arid economical theories.  He had too much learning for that.  Besides being an economist, an engineer, a successful businessman, a manager of railroads, and a member of the Italian aristocracy, Pareto was also one of the great classical scholars of his age.  A man of irascible temperament, Pareto could never bring himself to accept the insipidities of common opinion among academics and pamphleteers posing as experts.  He saw too clearly that the humanitarianism and the childish faith in progress that dominated intellectuals of his age were based on nothing more than shoddy scholarship and wishful thinking.  Eager to describe social reality as it really exists, Pareto extended his economic research well beyond the sterile equilibrium analysis that dominates the middle chapters of the Manuel.  In the last three chapters, equilibrium analysis is all but ignored.  What we have instead is some of the most clear-headed descriptions of economic reality ever put to paper.  Pareto discusses social heterogeneity, income distribution, social circulation, population, social hierarchy, stability, capital, rent, savings, retailing, trusts and syndicates, monopoly, free trade, protectionism, and economic crises.  What he has to say on nearly all these topics is extremely insightful, original, and extremely important.  His sophisticated examination of free trade, which transcends the simplistic dogmas of free traders on one side and protectionists on the other, is alone worth the price of the book.  Pareto is the most underrated of all the great social thinkers of the last two hundred years, and his sociology and non-mathematical economics deserve greater appreciation.<br />Now if only someone would get around to translating Pareto's great work on social spolation, &quot;Les Systemes Socialistes&quot;!at dominates the middle chapters of the Manuel.  In the last three chapters, equilibrium analysis is all but ignored.  What we have instead is some of the most clear-headed descriptions of economic reality ever put to paper.  Pareto discusses social heterogeneity, income distribution, social circulation, population, social hierarchy, stability, capital, rent, savings, retailing, trusts and syndicates, monopoly, free trade, protectionism, and economic crises.  What he has to say on nearly all these topics is extremely insightful, original, and extremely important.  His sophisticated examination of free trade, which transcends the simplistic dogmas of free traders on one side and protectionists on the other, is alone worth the price of the book.  Pareto is the most underrated of all the great social thinkers of the last two hundred years, and his sociology and non-mathematical economics deserve greater appreciation.<br />Now if only someone would get around to translating Pareto's great work on social spolation, &quot;Les Systemes Socialistes&quot;!	2001-05-04
US	51345940	R2KJ8DPEGL4IK	1882926242	243481026	A Humane Economy: The Social Framework of the Free Market	Books	5	36	41	N	N	The market is not everything	One of the great errors prevalent in economics is the assumption that an economy is a kind of endogenous entity which can be understood entirely on its own terms, without reference to social, political, and psychological factors.  This error is especially prevalent among those ideologues who believe that, while politics affects economics, economics never affects politics.  But this is clearly not how things stand in social reality.  Politics and economics exist within a complex web of causal interdependence.  No attempt to impose through politics a specific brand of economics can ever hope to be successful, since waves of causation from the economic realm will ricochet back into the political realm, thus altering the original economic program.<br />The political right, especially in its libertarian and pro-market incarnations, has never properly understood this insight into social reality.  In their polemic economic tracts, they implicitly assume that &quot;society&quot; or the &quot;government&quot; could choose at any time to adopt any economic principle it liked, regardless of the likely social or political consequences of that principle.  Libertarians tend to support any economy policy which they believe will bring about greater freedom and efficiency, ignoring all the while the disastrous consequences the policy might have in the political and social realms.  The great merit of Wilhelm Roepke's &quot;Humane Economy&quot; is that he sedulously avoids this error.  Roepke is one of the few pro-market who understands  that the free market does not exist in vacuo and that the market cannot be defended as a good-in-itself.  In the &quot;Humane Economy,&quot; Roepke points out that free enterprise depends on sociological, moral, and cultural factors for its maintenance and survival.  The \\"sphere of the market, of competition, of the system where supply and demand move prices and thereby govern production, may be regarded and defended only as part of a wider general order encompassing ethics, law, the natural conditions of life and happiness, the state, politics, and power,\\" writes Roepke.  \\"Individuals who compete on the market and there pursue their own advantage stand all the more in need of the social and moral bonds of community, without which competition degenerates most grievously.\\"  Roepke's defense of the market rests firmly on time-tested conservative principles.  He dissects the corrosive effects of mass society and social rationalism and warns against those two \\"slowly spreading cancers of our Western economy,\\" \\"the irresistible advance of the welfare state and the erosion of the value of money, which is called creeping inflation.\\"  There are few books which detail the crisis of modern civilization in the West better than this one; and none which offer a more convincing vision of a genuinely \\"humane\\" economy.	2001-05-04
US	51345940	RWKF2ANY8ESSE	0875481124	187282436	Reason & Analysis (Paul Carus Lectures)	Books	4	19	30	N	N	Excellent critique of Logical Positivism	There is much that can be said for this book.  It is well written, plausibly argued, and scrupulously fair-minded in its judgments.  Most of the book is devoted to a thorough refutation of logical positivism and linguistic analysis.   Blanshard analyzes the most important doctrines of these two schools of philosophy and refutes nearly all of them.  For this alone, &quot;Reason and Analysis&quot; deserves high marks.  To be sure, Blanshard could be taken to task for being too exhaustive in his refutation.  At times, the book can be tedious.  Do we really have to get into all the technical nooks and crannies of the logical positivist humbug?  Those obsessed with technical questions of philosophy might perhaps think so, but I have my doubts.  Blanshard even dabbles briefly in that horror of all philosophical horrors, symbolic logic.  But it's all done in a good cause--that is, to demolish the horrors and absurdities of linguistic analysis and logical positivism.  It is to be regretted that the refutation of a bad philosophy does not make it go away.  Linguistic analysis is still entrenched within academia and, like econometrics, will probably plague the groves of academe for many decades to come.<br />While I substantially agree with Blanshard's low estimate of logical positivism and linguistic analysis, I do not agree with his motive for attacking these philosophical schools.  Blanshard's principle aim in &quot;Reason and Analysis&quot; is to defend rationalist speculation.  He is under the illusion that &quot;we can achieve by rational thinking new knowledge about the world&quot; and that a priori knowledge can provide us with insight into the nature of reality.  Here I believe he is profoundly mistaken.  Rationalistic speculation can be useful in developing testable conjectures about the physical and psychological realms of existence; but by its own light alone, it is not competent to settle any question concerning a matter of fact.  Blanshard, because of his idealism, is incapable of understanding this.  Unable to conceive of how different reality is from our knowledge of it, he deludes himself into thinking that the structure of the real world can be discovered by examining the structure of our mental apprehension of this world.  Since valid thinking must be logical, Blanshard concludes that reality must also be logical.  But how can a physical object or an animal psyche be logical?  Only the conclusions of an argument can be logical.  Physical objects and animal psyches are neither logical nor illogical, they simply exist within the flux of matter and will.  For all his intelligence and insight, Blanshard has failed to grasp the dualistic nature of human knowledge.  This leads him to habitually confuses our knowledge of things with the things themselves.  Since things appear to us as bundles of qualities, Blanshard naively regards things as mere bundles of qualities.  But is this a reasonable view of the matter?  Is God a mere bundle of qualities?  To think such a thing is almost blasphemous.  Are human beings mere bundles of qualities? No, to believe that would be solipsism.  I fear that on these matters, Blanshard's rationalistic speculations and a priori insight has led him seriously astray.	2001-05-02
US	51345940	R36ZMYPMA0331Q	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	1	14	57	N	N	Is enlightened selfishness really possible?	There seem to be some misunderstandings concerning my example of the soldier who fell presented in an earlier review.  It has been suggested that, as long as we're talking about a volunteer army, the soldier who fell on the grenade was acting in his &quot;rational&quot; (or &quot;enlightened&quot;) self-interest because he &quot;signed a contract&quot; acknowledging that he might be called upon to give up his life.  I am very pleased to learn that rational self-interest does not preclude throwing oneself on a grenade, and I'm sure many hard-core altruists (whom I also criticized in my example) will also be relieved to know this.  Unfortunately, this view of the matter entirely misses the point I was trying to make.  My point was simply that there exist certain circumstances in which self-interest, whether of an enlightened variety or not, is useless as a guide to action.  If all five soldiers took the attitude that throwing themselves on a grenade was merely part of signing up, then why didn't all dive on the device?  &quot;To follow through on their own selfish objective, the soldier throws himself on the grenade,&quot; we are told.  But this involves a misconception of the whole scenario.  The act of the soldier is purely spontaneous.  It's not premeditated.  Moreover, the soldier acts alone.   He is not acting on &quot;their...objective,&quot; as is suggested. The others have nothing to do with the soldier's decision.  <br />The question is: why would any soldier do such thing?  Would he do it out of rational selfishness?  Most people innocent of the strange way Objectivists interpret such matters would say, &quot;Of course not.&quot;  (And if enlightened self interest is all that counts, why would anyone volunteer to be part of an army and go to war in the first place?  Wouldn't it be more rational to try to persuade other people to go in one's place?  But no, according to Objectivism, someone who is really enlightened about their selfishness will have no qualmsabout signing up, as long as it was a volunteer army and nobody compelled him to go!)<br />Unfortunately, in the real world, things don't work that way.  Most people interpret selfishness as looking out for number one.  That is not an attitude that is compatible with defending a country against its enemies.  Randian selfishness is not something that could ever work in real life.  Whether we like it or not, any nation, in order to survive, must occasional ask its citizens to perform certain obligations, the most tragic of which is serving in the military during war.  No reasonable person likes this fact.  Undoubtedly, it would be much better if things weren't that way and we could all follow our rational self-interest without anyone getting hurt.  But that's not the way things are.  The non-coercive society imagined by Rand is a pipe-dream.  <br />The ethical theories presented in this book could never be followed consistently in the real world.  They are, among other problems, far too vague.  What does it mean, precisely, to say that life is the standard of value?  Doesn't that make survival the summum bonum?  But no, not at all; &quot;there is more to life than survival,&quot; we are told: we also &quot;desire to live better.&quot;  But wait a minute.  Where did this &quot;desire&quot; come from?  I thought morality is supposed to be based on &quot;reason.&quot;  But, of course, it cannot be based on reason.  Desire (or sentiment) has to come in somewhere along the line.  But because of the vagueness of the principles, this is rarely noticed.  Instead, the Randian goes about his business, naively imagining that he follows certain rational principles in practice when, in point of fact, he merely follows his own private sentiments and desires.  This is how Rand behaved in her own life, and it is how her orthodox disciples behave as well.  This is how Peikoff behaved when he booted George Riesman out of the Objectivist movement and it is how Ellen Plasil's Objectivist brethren behaved when they ostracized her after she terminated her therapy with her sexually exploitative psychiatrist, Dr. Lonnie Leonard.  Such are the fruits of individuals trying to practice enlightened selfishness!  But are most human beings really enlightened enough to be selfish?  If even Objectivists fail by this standard, what are the chances for the rest of us?	2001-03-22
US	51345940	R27Y8D046WHHFC	0521657296	301591247	Critique of Pure Reason (The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Immanuel Kant)	Books	2	19	54	N	N	Profound philosophy or foolish pedantry?	I am surprised that so many reviewers have responded favorably to Kant's famous &quot;Critique&quot;; for there is nothing easier than to dislike it.  The book is, as Kant himself admitted, &quot;dry, obscure, opposed to all ordinary notions, and moreover long-winded.&quot;  It advances a number of doctrines which would seem to belong to different schools of thought.  Indeed, Kant seems to be trying to be all things to all people; and in doing so, he risks alienating all points of view.  He presents himself as a &quot;transcendental idealist.&quot;  But when this caused an uproar among the partisans of common sense, he quickly added several proofs of realism to the second edition.  Kant also argues against metaphysical speculation; and yet the Critique itself appears extremely speculative, and his later work indulges in some metaphysical speculations about immortality, freedom, and God that seem to contradict one of the basic theses of the Critique.<br />The purpose of Kant's Critique is to determine how synthetic judgments a priori are possible.  His answer, briefly (unfortunately, it is not so brief in the book), is that they are possible by virtue of certain &quot;pure concepts of the understanding.&quot;  Nietzsche savagely ridiculed Kant's argument in &quot;Beyond Good and Evil.&quot;  Kant's solution, according to Nietzsche, amounted to claiming that synthetic judgments a priori are possible &quot;by virtue of a faculty.&quot;  &quot;But is that an answer?&quot; Nietzsche questioned.  &quot;Or is it not rather merely a repetition of the question?  How does opium induce sleep?  'By virtue of a faculty,' namely the virtus dormitiva, replies the doctor in Moliere.&quot;  Nietzsche's criticisms seem to me unanswerable.  Kant's famous categories (i.e., the &quot;faculty&quot; in question) are dreadfully pedantic and recondite.  Although his basic notion that presuppositions are involved in all empirical judgments is basically sound, I seriously doubt that these presuppositions are in any way as rigid as Kant makes them out to be.  I suspect they are much more flexible and change as our conceptions of reality deepen.  Nor is there any justification in regarding them as necessarily true.  They may in fact contain errors--which is precisely why they need to be flexible.  (Karl Popper has made much the same point.)<br />Another criticism that could be leveled at Kant involves his extraordinary doctrine of the ideality of time and space.  This &quot;most terrible negation,&quot; as the philosopher George Santayana called it, would, if followed consistently, render all multiple and successive experiences as purely mental and imaginary.  But as Santayana pointed out, if this were the case, &quot;Everything conceivable would have collapsed into the act of conceiving it, and this act itself would have lost its terms and its purpose, and evaporated into nothing.&quot;  Fortunately for Kant, he was only an idealist north-north west.  When the wind blew southerly, he could distinguish real time from our experience of time, as his comforting postulate of immorality demonstrates quite clearly.presuppositions are in any way as rigid as Kant makes them out to be.  I suspect they are much more flexible and change as our conceptions of reality deepen.  Nor is there any justification in regarding them as necessarily true.  They may in fact contain errors--which is precisely why they need to be flexible.  (Karl Popper has made much the same point.)<br />Another criticism that could be leveled at Kant involves his extraordinary doctrine of the ideality of time and space.  This &quot;most terrible negation,&quot; as the philosopher George Santayana called it, would, if followed consistently, render all multiple and successive experiences as purely mental and imaginary.  But as Santayana pointed out, if this were the case, &quot;Everything conceivable would have collapsed into the act of conceiving it, and this act itself would have lost its terms and its purpose, and evaporated into nothing.&quot;  Fortunately for Kant, he was only an idealist north-north west.  When the wind blew southerly, he could distinguish real time from our experience of time, as his comforting postulate of immorality demonstrates quite clearly.	2001-03-22
US	51345940	R3UOBOZ39XWD9L	0312799128	955788873	Therapist	Books	5	15	31	N	N	The tragic fruits of rationalist ideology	Plasil's account of how her therapist, Dr. Lonnie Leonard, took advantage of her emotionally fragile state to turn her into his own private sexual plaything is not for the squeamish. But the book is important nonetheless for the light it sheds on what can happen when individuals turn away from traditional sources of social support like religion and instead try to follow some sort of rationalist ideology. Dr. Leonard had no trouble passing himself off as an important follower of Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy. Allan Blumenthal, the leading Objectivist psychotherapist of the time, described Leonard as &quot;the only psychiatrist I would recommend.&quot; Plasil herself was an Objectivist--as were all her friends and acquaintances. She would learn from brutal experience what happens when all one's friends are true-believing ideologues. <br />Normal people--that is, people who are not adherents of some rationalist ideology--look for emotional support in the social and moral bonds of traditional social groups, such as the family or church. But when these social and moral bonds are destroyed through rationalist criticism, human beings are left without any support whatsoever. This is what happened to Plasil. At the time of her therapy with Dr. Leonard, all her friends and acquaintances were Objectivists. They were, as Plasil herself put it, her &quot;entire support system.&quot; If they abandoned her, she would have nobody. So what happened when Plasil finally stood up to her therapist and accused him of shamelessly exploiting her? Did her Objectivist friends stand by her and give her the support she needed? No, of course not. In keeping with the heartless rationalism which is at the center of Rand's ideological philosophy, Plasil's Objectivist all sided with Dr. Leonard. &quot;I received innumerable phone calls, from men and women alike,&quot; she later recalled, &quot;who condemned me for terminating my own therapy and for the reason they had learned was behind my doing so. In one call, I was accused of 'destroying the closest thing Man has ever had to a god.' In another, I was threatened with retaliation for causing the closing of Dr. Leonard's practice.&quot; <br />Here we have an eloquent example of the subversive effects of rationalist ideology. Rand's morality of &quot;enlightened selfishness&quot; and excessive individualism had, like a corrosive acid, eaten away the tradition-based social bonds that are suppose to hold a community of friends and acquaintances together. In the absence of these social bonds, the individual is forced to rely entirely on his own private judgment in dealing with the immense complexities of social reality. Because this is not in fact possible, what happens instead is that the individual attaches himself to any charismatic figure who is willing to fill the void left by the absence of all those uncritically accepted traditions that give people the sense of community they need. <br />Once this is understood, we can begin to understand why all of Plasil's Objectivist friends abandoned her and sided with Dr. Leonard. They sided with Dr. Leonard because he gave them the emotional support they desperately needed and could not get in any other way. Bereft of any sort of religious or communitarian support system, they had no choice but to become abject followers of a common charlatan and sexual malefactor. This is always what happens when some ideologue or philosopher attempts to replace the common sense ethics of traditional morality with a &quot;rational&quot; ethics of intellectualist speculation or &quot;reason.&quot; Instead of liberty and independence, we find blind loyalty to some sort of self-appointed messiah. <br />This book is important because it gives us an idea what an Objectivist society would be really like. If it were possible for Objectivism ever to become the dominant ideology of society, what we would find is not an individualist paradise of rational, independent thinking men and women, but a dysfunctional society made up of clueless true-believers finding themselves inexplicably exploited by ruthless predators like Dr. Lonnie Leonard. Such are the fruits of any rationalist ideology, regardless of the intentions of its creators.	2001-03-20
US	51345940	R19MBL9C8E45ND	041507892X	479206163	The Logic of Scientific Discovery	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Groundbreaking work in scientific epistemology	This is the book where Popper first introduced his famous &quot;solution&quot; to the problem of induction.  Originally publish in German in 1934, this version is Popper's own English translation undertaken in the 1950s.  It should go without saying that the book is a classic in philosophic epistemology--perhaps the most important such work to appear since Hume's &quot;An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.&quot;  Popper argues that scientific theories can never be proven, merely tested and corroborated.  Scientific inquiry is distinguished from all other types of investigation by its testability, or, as Popper put, by the falsifiability of its theories.  Unfalsifiable theories are unscientific precisely because they cannot be tested.<br />Popper has always been known for his straightforward, lucid writing style.  There are no books on epistemology that are as easy to read and understand than Popper's.  Nonetheless, of all Popper's books, &quot;Logic of Scientific Discovery&quot; is easily the most difficult.  I don't know whether it is because it was his first book or because it was originally written in German or because of all the technical problems in probability and quantum theory that are dealt within its pages.  Whatever the reason, this book, despite its tremendous importance, cannot be recommended to those seeking an introduction to Popper's thinking (and Popper, whether you agree with his conclusions or not, is well worth getting to know).  For those who merely want a rough overview of Popper's opinions, perhaps the best book is &quot;Popper Selections,&quot; edited by David Miller.  For those eager for more depth, I would recommend &quot;Realism and the Aim of Science.&quot;  Popper no where makes a better case for his epistemological views than in this eminently readable book.  Further elaborations of Popper's views can be read in &quot;Conjectures and Refutations&quot; and &quot;Objective Knowledge.&quot;<br />Popper has been severely attacked by philosophers who are offended by his bold fallibilism and anti-dogmatism.  No philosopher attacked Popper more strenuously than David Stove.  Stove's criticisms are interesting, but they are not as conclusive as one disparaging critic has suggested.  Stove makes three main arguments against Popper: (1) Popper theories are bad because they lead to the epistemological relativism of Kuhn, Lakatos, and Feyerabend; (2) Popper's dismissal of induction is contrary to common sense and is therefore &quot;irrational&quot;; and (3) Popper's argument on behalf of &quot;conjectural knowledge&quot; is fallacious because the phrase &quot;conjectural knowledge&quot; is a contradiction in terms.  All three of these arguments are logically fallacious.  The first commits the fallacy of &quot;argument ad consequentiam,&quot; which tries to refute the truth of a doctrine by associating it to its (alleged) consequences.  This is, in a way, a sort of guilt by association argument.  The second argument simply assumes the very point at issue.  No where in his book on Popper does Stove attempt to prove that induction is rational.  He simply assumes it is and denounces Popper on the basis of this gratuitous assumption.  The last argument is merely verbal and proves only that Popper has violated common linguistic usage.  But why should we assume that linguistic usage must always be philosophically right?  Stove also makes a great fuss about Popper's assertion that a &quot;falsifiability&quot; is preferable to &quot;irrefutability.&quot;  Stove assumes that this is palpably absurd.  How can a theory that is falsifiable possibly be better than one that is irrefutable?  But Stove appears to have missed the whole point of Popper's theory.  Falsifiability merely means &quot;testability.&quot;  Irrefutable, on the other hand, means simply &quot;untestable.&quot;  When looked at in this line, Popper's theory no longer seems so absurd.  In fact, it is merely a great leap forward in the fight against dogmatism and close-mindedness.	2001-03-14
US	51345940	R2DABSD7M5MHVD	041507892X	479206163	The Logic of Scientific Discovery	Books	5	259	266	N	N	Groundbreaking work in scientific epistemology	This is the book where Popper first introduced his famous &quot;solution&quot; to the problem of induction.  Originally publish in German in 1934, this version is Popper's own English translation undertaken in the 1950s.  It should go without saying that the book is a classic in philosophic epistemology--perhaps the most important such work to appear since Hume's &quot;An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.&quot;  Popper argues that scientific theories can never be proven, merely tested and corroborated.  Scientific inquiry is distinguished from all other types of investigation by its testability, or, as Popper put, by the falsifiability of its theories.  Unfalsifiable theories are unscientific precisely because they cannot be tested.<br />Popper has always been known for his straightforward, lucid writing style.  There are no books on epistemology that are as easy to read and understand than Popper's.  Nonetheless, of all Popper's books, &quot;Logic of Scientific Discovery&quot; is easily the most difficult.  I don't know whether it is because it was his first book or because it was originally written in German or because of all the technical problems in probability and quantum theory that are dealt within its pages.  Whatever the reason, this book, despite its tremendous importance, cannot be recommended to those seeking an introduction to Popper's thinking (and Popper, whether you agree with his conclusions or not, is well worth getting to know).  For those who merely want a rough overview of Popper's opinions, perhaps the best book is &quot;Popper Selections,&quot; edited by David Miller.  For those eager for more depth, I would recommend &quot;Realism and the Aim of Science.&quot;  Popper no where makes a better case for his epistemological views than in this eminently readable book.  Further elaborations of Popper's views can be read in &quot;Conjectures and Refutations&quot; and &quot;Objective Knowledge.&quot;<br />Popper has been severely attacked by philosophers who are offended by his bold fallibilism and anti-dogmatism.  No philosopher attacked Popper more strenuously than David Stove.  Stove's criticisms are interesting, but they are not as conclusive as one disparaging critic has suggested.  Stove makes three main arguments against Popper: (1) Popper theories are bad because they lead to the epistemological relativism of Kuhn, Lakatos, and Feyerabend; (2) Popper's dismissal of induction is contrary to common sense and is therefore &quot;irrational&quot;; and (3) Popper's argument on behalf of &quot;conjectural knowledge&quot; is fallacious because the phrase &quot;conjectural knowledge&quot; is a contradiction in terms.  All three of these arguments are logically fallacious.  The first commits the fallacy of &quot;argument ad consequentiam,&quot; which tries to refute the truth of a doctrine by associating it to its (alleged) consequences.  This is, in a way, a sort of guilt by association argument.  The second argument simply assumes the very point at issue.  No where in his book on Popper does Stove attempt to prove that induction is rational.  He simply assumes it is and denounces Popper on the basis of this gratuitous assumption.  The last argument is merely verbal and proves only that Popper has violated common linguistic usage.  But why should we assume that linguistic usage must always be philosophically right?  Stove also makes a great fuss about Popper's assertion that a &quot;falsifiability&quot; is preferable to &quot;irrefutability.&quot;  Stove assumes that this is palpably absurd.  How can a theory that is falsifiable possibly be better than one that is irrefutable?  But Stove appears to have missed the whole point of Popper's theory.  Falsifiability merely means &quot;testability.&quot;  Irrefutable, on the other hand, means simply &quot;untestable.&quot;  When looked at in this line, Popper's theory no longer seems so absurd.  In fact, it is merely a great leap forward in the fight against dogmatism and close-mindedness.	2001-03-14
US	51345940	R3RZCO2YFV2ITY	0226446913	651791853	Risk, Uncertainty and Profit (Midway Reprint)	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Model of how economic problems should be analyzed	This is the best work of economic theory I have ever read.  There is no work in economics that evinces better judgment on the main issues or that does a better job of balancing theory with a sense for the facts.  Knight begins by defending theoretical (that is, deductive) economics.  Unlike the economic rationalists, however, Knight does not believe that theoretical economics can lead to precise results.  The application of the &quot;analytic method&quot; must always be &quot;incomplete,&quot; he argues.  Theoretical economics thus can only deal with &quot;tendencies,&quot; that is, &quot;with what 'would' happen under simplified conditions never realized, but always more or less closely approached in practice.&quot;  This methodology Knight describes as &quot;the method of successive approximations.&quot;  Knight also warns of the dangers of rationalism and the necessity of constantly checking one's results against the facts.  &quot;When the number of factors taken into account in deduction becomes large, the process rapidly becomes unmanageable and errors creep in... It is better to stop dealing with elements separately before they get too numerous and deal with the final stages of the approximation by applying corrections empirically determined.&quot;<br />Armed with the method, Knight proceeds to tackle several important problems in economics, especially dealing with the theoretical construct of &quot;perfect competition.&quot;  By always keeping his head firmly within the empirically real, Knight is able to bring a great deal of sound judgment to a number of issues.  Knight had a keen sense of human nature and how human beings behave in the real world of fact.  He knew that most economists had made men out to be far more rational than they really were.  Businesses, he argued, did not merely seek to meet the needs of the consumers; no, they sought to create new needs through innovation, advertising, and even a sort of manipulative hypnotism.  In this, Knight argued, we find both progress and abuse, civilization and fraud.  Knight also brings a good deal of sense to the problem of interest, demonstrating the psychological inadequacy of all time-preference theories of interest.  But Knight's most important contribution consists in his analysis of the difference between risk and uncertainty.  Risk, Knight argues, is a measurable probability that something could happen, like the probability that an individual will be struck by lightening or hit by a car.  Uncertainty is a kind of immeasurable risk--e.g., predicting short term flucations in exchange rates.  Knight's analysis is crucial to understanding economic reality.  Knight's distinction between risk and uncertainty, for instance, explains why the rise of derivative securities in financial markets is so dangerous.  Derivatives attempt to insure uncertainty, which is immeasurable, as if it were risk (which is measurable).	2001-03-08
US	51345940	R2GBRDVKGZWO89	0486202364	22098121	Scepticism and Animal Faith	Books	5	90	92	N	N	Santayana's philosophical masterpiece	This book is the most distinguished work of philosophy to emerge out of the critical realist tradition.  Santayana defends the duality between ideas in the mind and the things these ideas represent in the natural world.  Using this epistemological dualism, Santayana explains why all forms of idealism are unwarranted and absurd.  Since human knowledge is merely symbolic (rather than literal), all the skeptical arguments claiming that, unless we can prove that our ideas are in some sense &quot;identical&quot; to the things they represent, then it follows that things the ideas allegedly represent must be consider as &quot;unknowable.&quot;  But Santayana shrewdly reminds us that knowledge consists in &quot;thinking aptly about things, not in becoming like them.&quot;  External reality, before it can be grasped by the mind, must be reduced to the human level.<br />&quot;Skepticism and Animal Faith,&quot; along with David Stove's &quot;The Plato Cult and Other Philosophical Follies,&quot; represents the most effective and withering criticism that has ever been directed against the idealist creed.  Where Stove attacks the positive argument for idealism, Santayana focuses his polemical guns on the negative argument--i.e., on the idealist argument against realism.  Santayana shows how idealist skepticism of the existence of an external reality, if followed consistently, would deprive all our ideas of their cognitive meaning.  If idealism is taken to its logical extreme, we would all find ourselves trapped in a solipsism of the passing moment, unable to understand the significance of any idea, image, or feeling experienced by the mind.  The reason why human beings generally do not lapse into this state of idealist stupidity is because biological urges prompt them to assume that their ideas refer to things existing in an external, natural world.  This biological urge Santayana calls &quot;animal faith.&quot;  It is a faith that is rewarded and justified in every moment of ourwaking existence; and even those who deny it speculatively assume its validity in action and intent.<br />I personally regard &quot;Skepticism and Animal Faith&quot; as the greatest work of epistemology ever written.  This is a judgment, however, that few would agree with.  Many philosophers disparage Santayana because he eschews most of the technical problems of epistemology and also because he writes more like a poet than an academic scholar.  There is no symbolic logic, no arid syllogisms, no dryasdust argumentation in any of Santayana's philosophic works.  Philosophy, for Santayana, is not a technique or a science, but an art.  The technical epistemologies of academic philosophers are, accordingly, hopeless endeavors.  &quot;Thought can only be found by being enacted,&quot;  Santayana writes.  &quot;I may therefore guide my thoughts according to some prudent rule, and appeal as often as I like to experience for a new starting-point or a controlling perception in my thinking; but I cannot by any possibility make experience or mental discourse at large the object of investigation: it is invisible, it is past, it is nowhere.&quot;  In the final analysis, what makes Santayana superior to most other philosophers is his superior good sense coupled with the rare ability to express this wisdom in memorable phrases and apt metaphors.  If there is a more beautifully written book of epistemology, I have yet to see it.	2001-03-06
US	51345940	R3L01V1BWQFHPH	9994346385	107700468	Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology	Books	1	15	57	N	N	Rand's radical view of reason	A reviewer has described Rand as an enemy of the &#34;religious right.&#34;  But, it is not just the religious right that Rand opposes, but the right in general.  (The reviewer who described Rand as a &#34;leftist&#34; pretty much hits the nail on the head.)  The view of reason presented in this book is a revolutionary view.  Reason is regarded as not only the sole means of knowledge, but as perfectly unproblematical as well.  Concepts refer &#34;objectively&#34; to reality.  If these concepts are formed &#34;correctly,&#34; if they are ultimately based on the perceptual level of awareness and observe the rule of fundamentality, then the knowledge that results is perfectly adequate and takes precedence over any other claims to knowledge, even those based on scholarly research or the judgment of experienced men.  Contrast this with the traditional conservative view, which holds that reality is too complicated to be adequately expressed by means of conceptual reason and that attempts to make &#34;reason&#34; the arbiter of everything in life are socially and morally dangerous.  Rand believed that as long as one's concepts were integrated logically from the perceptual level of awareness, they could be used speculatively to infer knowledge about particular matters of fact.  She held that this was true even of very abstract concepts and rejected the view that greater abstraction necessarily entails greater vagueness and a higher probability of error. This is a very radical view of reason, one which no conservative, whether of a religious or secular persuasion, could ever find acceptable.  Both Rand's admirers and her critics need to understand this.  Rand is a leftist on the issue of reason, just as she is a leftist on the issue of human nature.  Her revolutionary conception of reason leads directly to a revolutionary view of society and freedom.  All uncritically accepted traditions are to be thrown overboard and replaced by principles founded on &#34;reason.&#34;  Thisleads to a view of politics and economics which, although it resembles the conservative view, actually contains important differences.  Rand supports an extremely revolutionary view of liberty --- a view which rejects the conservative notion that liberty cannot survive in the absence of certain non-rational social foundations (see E. Burke, &#34;Reflections on the French Revolution&#34;). Readers will have to decide for themselves whether Rand's view of reason (and her accompanying view of politics and society) accords with factual reality.  They should be careful, however, not to take Rand as an authority on contrary views.  Those interested in finding out what the conservative views of these questions are need to read works of actual conservatives.  The conservative view of reason is best defended by Michael Oakeshott in his &#34;Rationalism in Politics&#34; and by Friedrich Hayek in his &#34;Constitution of Liberty&#34; (especially pp. 54-70). One other note, this time on the critical side.  The last time a revolutionary movement of liberty succeeded in politics, it resulted in the French Revolution.  Do we really want to go through that again?	2001-03-02
US	51345940	R1S3Y1757EIKA5	0252014073	416490323	The Philosophic Thought of Ayn Rand	Books	4	9	19	N	N	A book for critical thinkers	This book, despite its occasional faults and shortcomings, nevertheless represented, at the time of its publication, a considerable leap forward in Randian criticism.  While some of the essays (most notably, those by the editors and Tibor Machan) add little if anything to our understanding of Rand, most of the rest contain at least several important insights, and some contain scores of them.  Wallace Matson, despite his odd desire to replace concepts with words and his fallacious remarks about the problem of induction, nevertheless has some apt things to say about the Objectivist axioms.  &quot;The subjectivists are not so obliging as to deny existence outright,&quot; he rightly points out.  And his remarks about Rand's abuse of the &quot;fallacy of the 'stolen concept'&quot; are on the mark as well.  Hollinger's essay, which, as far as I know, is the only critical examination of Rand's theory of history, is one of the best in the book.  Wheeler's ensuing essay on Aristotle is helpful in pointing out various instances when Rand misunderstood or misinterprets the old pedant of Athens.  The best essay in the book, however, is J. Charles King's masterful refutation of Rand's ethical theory.  King shows that life cannot possibly be the ultimate standard of value because life is a means to an end, not an end in itself.  Next we have Eric Mack's refutation of Rand's theory of rights.  While it is true that Mack just skims the surface of the problem, Mack's treatment is still the best to date.<br />Reviewers have been nearly universal in condemning Antony Flew's excellent essay on Randian selfishness, for reasons that I don't quite understand.  (I suspect they were more interested in refuting Flew than in understanding him.)  Flew, a distinguished British philosopher, contributes an essay of remarkable insight and good sense.  He points out that Rand's moral ideas &quot;could have been much better illustrated with the help of detailed accounts of paradigm lives, both goodand bad.&quot;  He aptly describes Rand's view that there can never be a conflict of interest between rational men as an &quot;embarrassment of all concerned, reminiscent of the revelation in the Communist Manifesto that, in the upcoming utopia, 'the free development of each will be the condition of the free development of all.'&quot;  Flew proceeds to demolish the Randian view by pointing out that Rand's whole discussion of the matter involves &quot;a constricted and factitious interpretation of the term interests.&quot;  (Many of the problems in Rand's philosophy stem from &quot;a constricted and factitious interpretation&quot; of terms.)  He ends the essay by showing how Rand's case for competitive capitalism can be bolstered by introducing ideas first developed by Adam Smith.  In all, a very fine collection of essays; but worth reading only for those capable of understanding philosophical argumentation.  Dogmatic, uncritical Objectivists had best stick with works recommended by Peikoff.	2001-02-16
US	51345940	R1E87DMHS9KVY5	0451149165	970161710	The Romantic Manifesto: A Philosophy of Literature; Revised Edition (Signet Shakespeare)	Books	1	51	103	N	N	A work for Rand fans, not for scholars	It has been suggested that some of the critical reviewers are so caught up in our political disagreements with Rand that we can't review works like &quot;The Romantic Manifesto&quot; objectively.  But this is gratuitous criticism.  My own objections to Rand have little to do with her politics.  I could live with Rand's politics.  Her aesthetics is another matter.  The negative reviewers have pretty much hit the nail on the head.  The trouble with Rand is that, a few exceptions notwithstanding, she really didn't like art.  She disliked Shakespeare, Beethoven, and Tolstoy, among others, and probably most of the other major figures in Western Art.  Among serious novelists, only Hugo meets with her full aesthetic approval, with Dostoevsky, Hawthorne, and Sienkiewicz warranting honorable mentions.  I fail to understand why someone who, from all appearances, doesn't really like art qualifies as an aesthetic theorist.      In addition to this issue, there is the problem of Rand's scholarship, or, rather, lack of it.  Rand's views of Romanticism and Naturalism are appallingly ill-informed.  It is evident that she knew little, if anything, about what these terms mean historically.  Those who want to understand what Romanticism really is, historically, need to read Jacque Barzun's &quot;Classic, Romantic, and Modern,&quot; the best work on the subject.  Barzun, unlike Rand, was an extraordinary scholar with a truly encyclopedic grasp of his subject.    My problem with Rand has little if anything to do with her ethical or political views.  No, what I object to is that she pretends to be an expert about things she knows nothing about.  It hardly seems unreasonable to object to this deficiency in Rand.	2001-02-09
US	51345940	R1FCX9964QZYNB	0140238565	322906034	A Short History of Financial Euphoria (Penguin business)	Books	3	25	42	N	N	Engaging but superficial glance at financial euphoria	This short, engagingly written book is a welcome antidote to the unfortunate and even dangerous stock market euphoria of recent years.  Galbraith, as usual, is accurate and fair.  The only problem with the book is that is that it never dives below the surface.  Galbraith, like many left-wing critics of capitalism, has a keen eye for interesting facts, but he has little if any theoretical sense of the basic economic principles involved in market euphorias.  It is gross credit excess that is fueling the current stock market bubble.  The obverse side of credit is debt, and that is precisely where the problem rises.  As credit expands, debt expands with it, especially bad debt.  Eventually, the bad debt leads to a crisis; if a sizeable amount of debt cancellation occurs, you get deflation and a crisis of epic proportions.	2001-01-25
US	51345940	R1F9POMAN57ZF4	0878556982	447683668	Theory of Economic Development (Social Science Classics Series)	Books	5	56	65	N	N	Schumpeter's explanation of economic progress	This book provides a useful corrective to some of the shortcomings of the so-called Austrian theory of Capital and the Business Cycle.  Schumpeter, who studied under the great Austrian economists Bohm-Bawerk, was too much of an independent thinker to be part of an economic movement or school.  The Theory of Economic Development is his declaration of independence from Austrian capital theory.  In the book, he introduces a theory of development and the business cycle that shocked his more orthodox colleagues.  Economic development, Schumpeter argues, involves transferring capital from old businesses using established methods of production to businesses using new, innovative methods.  Schumpeter's special insight comes in trying to explain how the transfer of capital from the old to the new takes place.  Schumpeter argued that it takes place through credit expansion.  Through the fractional reserve system, banks are able to create credit, quite literally out of thin air.  This money is lent to businesses specializing in new methods of production, who then bid up the price of production goods and consumer goods in their effort to pay for the production goods they require.  Thus a form of inflationary spoliation takes place at the expense of established businesses and consumers.      Although Schumpeter does not draw the spoliation inference from his theory, it is nonetheless there in the text for all who can see.  Credit expansion is a form of spoliation, a form of robbery hardly distinguishable from counterfeiting.  But what is unique about the capitalist engine of production is how it uses spoliation in the service of progress.  And not merely spoliation through credit expansion, but spoliation through protectionism, stock manipulation, corporate welfare, cartels and monopolies, and outright fraud and manipulation.  Schumpeter's book sheds light on just one aspect of this spoliation, and from this stems the book's vital importance to economic theory.	2001-01-23
US	51345940	R3IU5G2RYYXAW2	0029166500	496838867	The Triumph of Conservatism: A Reinterpretation of American History, 1900-1916	Books	5	77	84	N	N	Historical explanation of the rise of Big Government	No book details the historical relationship between big business and the Federal government better than this one.  Though confined merely to the so-called Progressive Era in American history (1901-1914), Kolko manages to overturn all the misconceptions about the formation of government regulation in America.  Instead of accepting the standard view that federal regulation of business was inspired by the Progressive intellectuals and activist political leaders eager to put a check on the rising power of big business, Kolko shows that it was really inspired by the drive of businessman to limit competition and bring &quot;stability&quot; into the market. The result is what Kolko calls, appropriately enough, &quot;political capitalism.&quot;      Some earlier reviews have attempted to draw an ideological lesson from this book.  This is a mistake.  If there is a lesson to be drawn from Kolko's work, it is the failure of all ideologies (whether from the right, left, or center) to adequately explain the rise of political capitalism in America.  Both the right and the left share the common assumption that government regulation hurts big business.  Kolko proves that this isn't the case, that Big Business is in favor of regulation and the throttling of competition.  Kolko's book is a must read for anyone who wants to understand what capitalism and politics is really all about.	2001-01-23
US	51345940	R26B2A0GL9O322	0765800004	921770812	Against the Idols of the Age	Books	5	60	70	N	N	Iconoclastic essays by masterful polemicist	This is not a book for moralizers, ideologues, fanatics, dogmatists, right thinkers, or anyone who cannot tolerate having some pet idea or another ripped to rhetorical shreds.  David Stove must have been one of the most splenetic philosophical critics ever to put pen to paper.  There are very few ideas, thinkers, ideologues that Stove approves of.  He is, to use a phrase of the great critic William Hazlitt, a &quot;great hater.&quot;  Whether its Karl Popper, Plato, feminism, Darwinism, religion, idealism, Thomas Kuhn, Victorianism, Schopenhauer, academic, racial egalitarianism---they are all so much grist to the Stovean critical mill.  Stove relishes attacking popular positions.  Are women as intelligent men?  No, declares Stove; nobody believes that, he insists, despite all the liberal fustian to the contrary.  Is racism a valid concept?  No, Stove argues, it is a mere neologism that nobody accepts in everyday life.    Stove's iconoclasm might lead some to dismiss him as a mere crank.  Certainly there is nothing easier than to disagree with him (his positions do tend towards unpalatable extremes).  But because of Stove's incendiary wit, his clear, forceful, ingenious (though sometimes, admittedly, sophistical) argumentation, and his pungent, graceful, perspicuous style, he cannot be so casually dismissed.  Stove is a master at finding compelling reasons to adopt outrageous opinions.  Against &quot;The Idols of the Age&quot; is a contrarian classic.  It belongs on the shelf of every person who is opposed, on principle, to all the appalling bilge that passes for common wisdom among today's &quot;intellectuals.&quot;  And even, as is more than probable, Stove attacks some idea or individual that you admire, what of it?  We all of us need to be shaken out of our dogmatic slumbers now and again.  I can think of no more invigorating way to be awaken than by reading Stove's brilliantly inflammatory essays.  Highly recommended.	2001-01-23
US	51345940	R3HCX5UCOE2MZZ	0682472042	315805136	Return to Reason: An Introduction to Objectivism	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Simplistic Interpretation of Objectivism	I see that this book is out of print.  It's just as well.  I could not even recommend this book to hard-core Rand fans.  Lepanto succeeds at making Objectivism seem more simplistic and intellectually shallow than it really is.  This most sophisticated presentation of Objectivism is Sciabarra's treatment of it in his &quot;Ayn Rand: Russian Radical.&quot;  If you can handle Mr. Sciabarra's curious thesis that Rand is a dialetical thinker, his book is the best place to go for a detailed summary of Rand's creed.	2001-01-12
US	51345940	R3UIF122Y0Z1GT	0684800527	776788077	A Frolic of His Own	Books	3	3	11	N	N	A Frolic of Modernism	Here we have a book that is as exasperating as it is brilliant, as annoying as it is hilarious.  Gaddis is as good a satirist as has been seen in this country this side of Mark Twain.  But he is also---and here's the problem---a modernist of the most uncompromising variety.  Reader's familiar with Joyce's Ulysses should know what I mean.  Gaddis dispenses completely with quotation marks so that it is difficult to figure out where speech begins and the &quot;narrative,&quot; such as it is, resumes.  Stream of consciousness is, thankfully, kept to a minimum, but on the few occasions when it rears its none too welcome head, confusion reigns not merely in the minds of character, but in the mind of the reader as well, where it should never reign.  Admittedly, Gaddis handles the Joycean tricks with great flair and virtuosity, but it would have been better for all concerned if he had refrained from indulging in this sort of self-absorbed modernist exhibitionism.  The technical pretentious of modernism no longer impress.  They are not only tiresome, a product of aesthetic hubris and self-indulgence, but they demonstrate a woeful lack of consideration for the reader.  The author should above all seek to communicate with his readers, not confuse and bewilder them.  It is a breach of literary etiquette to throw up all sorts of artificial barriers between the author's text and the reader's mind.  It is especially annoying when the text itself contains excellent material seeking to be heard above the modernist din.  Like Faulkner's &quot;The Sound and the Fury&quot; and Vargas Llosa's &quot;Conversations in a Cathedral,&quot; Gaddis' &quot;A Frolic of His Own&quot; is an example of an excellent novel sabotaged by modernist blarney.	2001-01-12
US	51345940	R39S8CVN08N39D	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The work of a master	It is a lamentable commentary on the state of contemporary literature to consider thta an octogenerian is far and away the best living novelist in America.  Here we have another first-rate work from America's greatest writer, the first full length novel he's written in 13 years.  Ravelstein, despite a few shortcomings characteristic of the author, is head and shoulders above anything that has been written in the last ten years in America.  The novel is a fictional portrait of Bellow's friend and colleague, the late Allan Bloom.  The book has created controversy because of revelations in it concerning Bloom's homosexuality.  However, far too much has been made of this in the review press.  The novel only contains a few slender allusions to Bloom's irregular sexual habits and makes clear that Bloom himself detested all the trappings of gay pride and homosexual activism.  <br />Bellows fictional account of Bloom is nothing less than masterful, a larger than life portrait worthy to stand next to the greatest characters in American fiction.  Unlike so many contemporary fictionalists, who believe that a novelist should merely show and never tell, Bellow transcends this dubious dichotomy and makes you understand as well.  The result is a well-rounded characterization of a brilliant but flawed man---a man who, in an age of abject conformity, political correctness, and academic sycophancy, dared to take on the entire academic establishment and tell the world the truth about the American university.<br />Like so many of Bellow's novels, Ravelstein starts stronger than it ends.  Since Bellow rarely provides much in the way of a plot or story, he often doesn't know how to tie up all the loose ends of his narratives.  Ravelstein is no exception.  By the time we get to the last third of the book, Ravelstein has passed from the scene and the narrator, Chick, whom we assume is based on Bellow himself, takes over center stage.  Chick is an interesting character and worth a novel tohimself.  But he's no where as interesting as Ravelstein, and so there's a bit of a let down when he becomes the primary focus of the novel.  But as Nietszche said, great men are great even in their faults; and this applies to Bellow and his new novel.  It will be a sad day when Bellow's career as a novelist comes to a close.  Without Bellow, I fear American literature would be a mere wasteland, dreary beyond endurance.	2001-01-11
US	51345940	R2EQSJU8VYXMHF	0679724656	862001785	Beyond Good & Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A delightful romp through the prejudices of philosophers	This book can be regarded as a sort of philosophical emetic.  Nietzsche demolishes one philosophical prejudice after another, proving how baseless and cowardly most of the pieties of traditional philosophy, and especially those of German idealistic philosophy, really are.  While here and there Nietzsche may go overboard, the number of insights that he offers, all couched in his prankish, brilliantly aphoristic style, more than compensates for the occassional lapse in good judgment.  His inspired use of language is second to none among philosophers.  Who else would think of describing Kant's philosophy as &quot;stiff and decorous Tartuffery,&quot; or the cuasa sui as &quot;the best self-contradiction that has been conceived so far, it is a sort of rape and perversion of logic.&quot;  Or what about his penetrating comment about that free and &quot;unfree&quot; will? &quot;The 'unfree will' is mythology,&quot; Nietzsche writes: &quot;in real life it is only a matter of strong and weak wills.&quot;  Isn't that the truth!  Philosophy doesn't get much better than this.  Highly recommended, but only to good readers, readers who can really think.  Bad readers should stick with Plato, Hegel, Rand, Marcuse and other &quot;cowards before the truth,&quot; as Nietzsche would describe them.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	RCLQ2H62IHGL9	0887388906	784398426	Character and Opinion in the United States (History of Ideas Series)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Excellent introduction to the art of Santayana	For those who have never read Santayana, this is as good a place to start as any.  The book begins with the essay &quot;A Brief History of my Opinions,&quot; which is as good an introduction to Santayana's thought as you are likely to find.  After Santayana's once famous essay on the Genteel Tradition in American Philosophy, we come across two critical essays on William James and Josiah Royce.  There are no two finer critical essays in philosophy.  Santayana combines a symphathetic portrayal of the personalities (he knew both men, having studied under them at Harvard) with a devestating (though very polite) dissection of their specious views.  Of James, he writes, &quot;Philosophy to him was rather like a maze in which he happened to find himself wandering, and what he was looking for was a way out.&quot;  Santayana's treats Royce's dreadful hegelianism with appropriate irony, pointing out the clash between Royce's practical good sense and his absurd philosophical views.  But perhaps the best essay in the entire collection is the one entitled &quot;The Genteel Tradition at Bay,&quot; where Santayana makes mincemeat of the so-called &quot;new humanists.&quot;  Santayana especially focuses his critical attention on their moral absolutism, which he demonstrates is self-contradictory and unfeasible. &quot;Call it humanism or not, only a morality frankly relative to man's nature is worthy of man, being at once vital and rational, martial and generous,&quot; writes Santayana; &quot;whereas absolutism smells of fustiness as well as of faggots.&quot;  Santayana's philosophical reflections are not merely brilliant reasoned and beautifully written: they also gives us what is so conspicuously missing in the reflections of most other modern philosophers--namely, wisdom.  His works cannot be recommended highly enough.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R8RPISC6AZAVW	0192836226	342577083	A Sentimental Education: The Story of a Young Man (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	23	42	N	N	A refreshing cold bath of realism	This is one of those books that every college Freshmen should read.  No novel protrays intellectuals more accurately than this one.  Flaubert documents their vanity, their dishonesty, their pettiness and their depravity.  He shows us what really awful human beings they are.  Young people well advised to read the novel before entering the college scene.  It will help them enter the academic world with at least some inkling of what the  majority (admittedly, not all) intellectuals are really like.<br />There is an additional reason for reading &quot;The Sentimental Education.&quot;  It may very well be the most perfect novel ever produced.  Not a single word, description, phrase is wasted.  It belongs on any short list of the greatest books of all time.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R24V3CD5HILNYX	1884365205	755354949	The Anti-Christ	Books	5	25	35	N	N	Not always fair, but important critique of Christianity	Is Nietzsche fair to Christianity?  Of course he isn't.  That isn't what he set out to do.  Nietzsche set out to destroy Christianity.  He adopted a take-no-prisoners approach.  If Christianity can survive Nietzsche's onslaught, it can survive anything.<br />Why is this book important?  Because criticism is good; criticism is what advances knowledge.  And let's face it: there is a side of Christianity that is open to some of Herr Nietzche's criticisms.  Christianity, in some of its manifestations, can become maudlin in its humanitarianism and totalitarian in its political aspirations (keep in mind Dostoevsky's Grand Inquisitor!).  In its zeal to comfort the afflicted, Christianity can end up doing harm to the higher type of man.  Christians can avoid such dangerous excesses by giving this book a careful perusal.  Nietzche's heady dose of castor oil criticism can only serve to strengthen Christianity by purging it of its sentimental weaknesses.<br />There is another reason to read the book: even when at his most wrong-headed, Nietzsche still tosses out one brilliant insight after another. His remark, for instance, about the dishonesty of most philosophers is all too true.  &quot;I except a few skeptics--the decent type in the history of philosophy,&quot; Nietzsche writes: &quot;the rest are simply unaware of the most basic requirements of intellectual honesty.&quot;  Precisely!  And for those who believe Nietzsche was a fascist brute who believed that superior men could stomp on their inferiors with impunity, consider the following stricture: &quot;When the exceptional human being treats the mediocre more tenderly than himself and his peers, this is not mere politeness of the heart--it is simply his duty.&quot;  Recommended despite its unfairness to the Christian faith.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R10353IJ0W6DLE	0140262601	725968906	The War of the End of the World	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Greatest of all Latin American novels.	The reviewer who described this book as the best 19th Century novel written in the 20th Century comes pretty close to hitting the nail squarely on the head.  This is a very great work, by the far the best novel written in the last 50 years.  It contains a plenitude of drama, scores of fascinating characters, and it is thankfully free from the defects afflicting most Latin American fiction. No left-wing fustian, no &quot;magic realism&quot; here! (Thank God for that!)  I'm also pleased that Llosa dispensed with his penchant for literary modernism in this work.  Unlike the (admittedly) brilliant &quot;Conversations in a Cathedral,&quot; &quot;The War of the End of the World&quot; is not a difficult read.  Llosa must have realized that here was a story that had to be communicated, and he does a brilliant job of bringing the tragic tale of Canudos to vivid life.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R2ILZ4VJ2R5Z35	0374955697	670293171	The Bathtub Hoax, and Other Blasts and Bravos from the Chicago Tribune	Books	5	6	6	N	N	America's most honest writer	What is this country coming to?  Is doomsday near?  How is it that all the best books are out of print?  Mencken's &quot;Bathtub Hoax&quot; is one of those books which every educated person should read.  That it should be out of print is testimony enough as to sorry state of contemporary culture.  Every college Freshmen should be forced to read this book under penalty of law.  Why do I take so extreme a position?  Simply because there is no better antidote to the maudlin idealism that afflicts so many college students these days.   Mencken, always the arch-realist, proves that human beings, far from having any interest in the truth, are in fact determined foes of veracity.  What most men want is not truth, but comforting lies.  Human beings simply cannot tolerate honesty.  <br />That is the trouble with Mencken, and why so many of his books are out of print.  Mencken told the truth.  For this reason, people (intellectuals especially) can't stand them.  They hate it when he pricks their bubbles of illusion and self-deceit. Mencken is also despised for being the very antithesis of political correctness.   In fact, it would be no exaggeration to suggest that in today's dismal cultural climate, no &quot;respectable&quot; newspaper or magazine would dare publish his work.  Why? Because Mencken had integrity: he wouldn't just write what people wanted to read.  That is the main reason why so many &quot;right thinking&quot; people find him offensive.  Mencken told the truth, and he is damned for doing so.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R3J77I7WZ4BGAN	0786117915	202502753	In Defense of Women (Library Edition)	Books	5	60	62	N	N	As good as it gets	This is not a book for faint of heart.  No one was better at invective than Mencken, and his defense of women is far more of an attack on men than a defense of the &quot;unfair&quot; sex, as Ambrose Bierce signified our better half.  Mencken's basic argument goes something like this: women are pretty bad; men are worse; therefore, women are better than men.  This is, to be sure, a gross over-simplification.  Mencken's argument is really much more sophisticated and ingenious.  He picked it up, he tells us elsewhere, from a madame of a bordello.  It contains a great deal more truth than most people would be willing to admit.  Mencken's hillarious presentation is recommended only to hardened cynics (which is to say, hardened realists).  Sensitive people with &quot;beautiful&quot; souls are well advised to avoid this brilliant book.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R3GUXLKT6BNNW3	0404169902	721040710	The Mind and Society (English and Italian Edition)	Books	5	32	36	N	N	A masterpiece of sociological and political analysis	We can thank the academic world, the intellectuals, the &quot;clercs,&quot; for keeping this book out of stock.  Ever since the Second World War, Pareto has a been a persona non grata among the chattering classes and within the reality-cloistered groves of academe.  Left-wing intellectuals cannot forgive him for writing &quot;Mind and Society.&quot;  Why are they so upset?  Because Pareto dared to tell the truth about nature of society. Instead of concocting some sterile utopia or whining about the disadvantaged and the poor, Pareto set out to describe society as he found it.  And he went about his business in a manner that was certain to offend the sensitive souls of intellectual's and left-wing idealogues everywhere.  The study of society, Pareto makes clear in this treatise, is not about wishful thinking or curing the ills of humanity.  No, it is about discovering uniformities in the social order, which means: discovering what makes society tick.  Pareto traces the motive forces behind social change to human nature.  Ruling elites tend to be one of two predominant types: they are either &quot;lions&quot; or &quot;foxes.&quot;  Lions try to rule through force; foxes try to rule through chicanery.  The trouble with lions is that they tend to be rigid in their views.  They dislike innovation and oppose progress.  The trouble with foxes is that they shrink from the use of force and are susceptible to the excesses of humanitarianism.  If a nation is to have a stable ruling elite, it needs a mixture of lions and foxes. Otherwise, you have social disequilibrium and crisis.<br />Pareto's scientific approach to sociology is refreshing in an age when everyone wants to interpret social and political issues in purely ideological terms.  His prose is lively, engaging, and often very witty.  His rampages against humanitarianism and ideology are hilarious.  I would recommend using  Amazon.com's search service to find a used copy of either the two volume or four volume versionsof this work.  It is well worth the trouble.  Social science doesn't get any better, nor more readable, than this.	2000-11-21
US	51345940	R17XZR4HK4OTJP	0061330086	526483167	Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy	Books	5	185	199	N	N	Capitalism viewed in its social and political context	This is one of the most important books on Capitalism ever written. Unlike most economists, Schumpeter's knowledge and understanding of the sociological &amp; political sides of the capitalist process was just as profound as was his knowledge and understanding of the economic side. Consequently, he presents a more well-rounded view of Capitalism than we usually get from the typical one-dimensional type of economist.<br />Most economists commit the fatal error of regarding capitalism as a mere economic phenomenon, explicable by economic laws alone. But this view is palpably erroneous. Capitalism both influences and is influenced by political and sociological factors. Any account of the Capitalist system which ignores these non-economic factors must be regarded as short-sighted and incomplete.<br />This book is probably most famous (or most infamous, depending on your point of view) for its prediction (circa. 1942) that capitalism would eventually be replaced by some form of socialism. With the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and the revival of market economics in East Asia and South America, it might appear that Schumpeter's prediction has been refuted. But this conclusion would be premature and superficial. Keep in mind Schumpeter's broad vision of capitalism. For Schumpeter, capitalism is much more than a free market acting under the guidance of supply and demand and consumer sovereignty. In Schumpeter's vision, capitalism is entire order of civilization, embracing the old-fashioned &quot;bourgeois&quot; code of ethics (see Thomas Mann's &quot;Buddenbrooks&quot; for a concrete illustration of bourgeois civilization) and entrepreneurial innovation (or &quot;creative destruction,&quot; as Schumpeter calls it in his famous theory of the business cycle). When Schumpeter predicted that socialism would ultimately triumph over capitalism, he did not mean that a perfectly controlled economy would replace a perfectly free market, but that a &quot;socialist&quot; civilization would replace the capitalist civilization of the 19th century. His prediction, although not correct in all respects, is nevertheless prescient in a number of important ways. The social order prominent in the first world today is capitalist more in form than in substance. The corporation, which is regarded as a public institution by the law, is the dominant economic unit. Privately owned businesses have less and less power in the market. Regulation and state involvement in business are more and more common. Schumpeter once said that when socialism came to America, it would not be called socialism. This remark comes uncomfortably close to hitting the nail on the head.	2000-11-17
US	51345940	R2KWN5LM9V9SX	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	1	26	62	N	N	Rand's confused defense of &quot;rational moral absolutes&quot;	I will grant this much to Rand: there is an element of truth in her praise of selfishness and condemnation of altruism. There are a lot of confusions in the way people use these terms--confusions which have given Rand's ideas on the subject greater plausibility than they deserve.<br />An example can illustrate the difficulties involved in the subject. Suppose five soldiers are standing around and a grenade lands between them. One of the soldiers dives on the grenade and, though instantly killed, saves the other four. According to the logic of Rand's philosophy, the soldier who dove on the grenade is evil and the other four are also evil for benefiting from the self-sacrifice of another. A perfectly consistent altruist, however, would say that only the sacrificial soldier is good and that the other four are evil: for the altruist would have all five pile on the grenade and get killed! Obviously, something is wrong with both positions. Randian selfishness may be perfectly acceptable in the ordinary course of life, but there are situations (in war, for instance) in which it suddenly becomes much less compelling.<br />Rand's ethics, as presented in this book, has at least one serious problem: it lacks logical coherence on the question of moral ends. Rand actually advocates three different moral ends. She begins by saying that life is the ultimate value--or, in other words, that survival is the ultimate end. But, perhaps realizing that a survivalist morality is absurd (survival is an impossible moral standard: the best we can hope for is to live and die well), she qualifies her position by declaring that only a &quot;rational&quot; survival is &quot;proper to a human being.&quot; According to this view of the matter, &quot;rationality&quot; becomes the ultimate end. But since reason is a means, a tool, and not an end in itself, it seems ridiculous to adopt it as one's ultimate moral value: and so we find Rand claiming that happiness is man's &quot;highest moral purpose.&quot; <br />The reason for Rand's incoherence on this issue stems from her mistaken belief that you can rationally derive absolute moral values from facts. (Her treatment of the is-ought problem is extremely inadequate.) She failed to realize that morality is a product, not of &quot;reason,&quot; but of sentiment and desire. The trouble with all such &quot;rational&quot; systems of ethics like Rand's is that, at bottom, they are insincere: a rational ethics is contradiction in terms: it is mere casuistry. Am I exaggerating? Consider this: Rand, despite all her rhetoric about moral absolutes, had little trouble justifying her adulterous affair with a man half her age! If this is not casuistry, then what is?	2000-11-15
US	51345940	R332VWTD66Q25L	0226672883	193800143	Personal Knowledge: Towards a Post-Critical Philosophy	Books	5	100	112	N	N	Polanyi's brilliant attack on naive objectivism	Books on epistemology tend to be dreary affairs. Epistemology, which is the branch of philosophy that studies how human beings acquire and &quot;validate&quot; their knowledge, tend to be largely speculative and logical. Most theories of epistemology that are inflicted upon the world are nothing more than the highly artificial constructions of some philosopher telling us all how we &quot;ought&quot; to attain and validate our knowledge. Any correspondence to how men really attain knowledge is usually pure coincidence. Moreover, in many instances, the epistemological philosopher has some special agenda which he is seeking to impose on his readers by confusing them with a mass of epistemological pedantry. He may be trying to prove the validity of a largely speculative form of &quot;reason&quot; or of definitions or of certainty or of a perfect and immaculate form of &quot;objectivity&quot; or of some other equally utopian and irrelevant principle.<br />In the light of all this philosophical pretension, it is refreshing to come across a book like Polanyi's &quot;Personal Knowledge.&quot; Polanyi was a chemist trained in the methods of science. He understands, as few merely speculative philosophers do, the necessity of deriving theories from facts, rather than facts from theories. Yet Polanyi is more than just a scientist; he is also a very shrewd and critical thinker who does not shrink from challenging long cherished assumptions within his own discipline of science. &quot;Personal Knowledge&quot; is, among other things, an attack on what might be called &quot;naive objectivism,&quot; which can be defined as the epistemological view which holds that the only valid knowledge is that which can be articulated and tested by strictly impersonal methods. Polanyi demonstrates why this view of knowledge is untenable. Some of man's most important knowledge, he argues, is tacit and inarticulable, like the knowledge of how to swim or how to judge a work of art. Yet men use such knowledge and even depend on it for their survival. <br />Polanyi's book is rich in such insights. Anyone interested in epistemology needs to read this book. It will change one's thinking about human knowledge and give one a great appreciation of the depth and wonder of the human mind.	2000-11-15
US	51345940	R111SPOCYFJ5XY	1560009551	450251123	The Ethics of Competition (Foundations of Higher Education) (Classics in Economics Series)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	America's greatest economist	Transaction publishers should be congratulated for making this important book available.  Knight has fair claim to be regarded, along with Joseph Schumpeter, as the greatest economist of the 20th century.  The primary reason for Knight's greatness is his ability to synthesize economic theory with an empirical sense of actual economic reality.  Unlike so many right-wing, pro-free market economists, Knight does not view economic reality solely in terms of abstract models of the market processes.  He knows that there is more to economic reality than is to be found in the theories of supply and demand and consumer sovereignty.  Although deeply symphathetic to the cause of freedom (including that old  bugbear of the Left, economic freedom), Knight never shrinks from criticizing even pro-market ideas. This enables him to understand not merely the weaknesses in these ideas, but also their unique strengths.<br />Knight also manages to avoid the other major pitfall of economists, especially economists from the Left.  He never becomes so excessively wrapped up in the empirical as to become interpretively obtuse.  He understands perfectly well that, in the absence of theory, economic facts cannot be understood.  He thus avoids the lamentable errors of left-wing economists who, noticing some fact which does not square with the laws of classical economics, decide to throw the entire classical system into the rubbish heap of refuted ideas.  But economic laws, Knight would point out, are mere approxtimations measuring tendencies within the economic system.  <br />Those who want to deepen their understanding of economics as it exists in the real world of fact rather than in the heads of shrill ideologues can do no better than to treat themselves to a perusal of &quot;The Ethics of Competition.&quot;	2000-11-15
US	51345940	R1WTF23V50W9L7	0844628859	45470773	The World As Will and Representation (2-Volume Set)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Great Realist	Let me add one more voice to the chorus of praise of Schopenhauer.  When a philosopher garners so much praise from reader-reviewers, usually there's a great deal of hype involved.  In this case, however, there is little if any hype.  Schopenhauer is nearly everything the reviewers here say he is: brilliant and clear stylist, trenchant observer of the human condition, insightful philosophic critic, etc. etc.  While I do not agree with Schopenhauer's idealism, his admiration of Plato, or his Kantian rejection of the reality of time and space, his view of life in general is so refreshingly realistic that these disagreements pale into insignificance.  No philosopher (with the possible exception of George Santayana) describes human life more accurately than Herr Schopenhauer.  Far from being the great pessimist, he can more accurately be regarded as the great realist.	2000-10-09
US	51345940	R310TSHXAOHO7S	0940931508	83951569	Without a Prayer: Ayn Rand and the Close of Her System	Books	3	17	23	N	N	Putting Rand under cross examination	This brilliantly written book is as frustrating as it is insightful. Robbins' critique of Rand is nothing short of withering. Rand is made to look like a philosophical imbecile clealry out of her depth. Unfortunately, in making Rand look so bad, Robbins is not being entirely fair. His critique is, in many important respects, deeply flawed. He is, to begin with, an extreme rationalist who rejects both fact and empiricism. (Robbins says there are no facts, but only propositions, theories: but is this a fact, or just a theory?) Everything to him is a question of logic, which in practice means: a question of words. Rand is subjected by Robbins to endless verbal scrutiny. He goes after her like a prosecuting attorney subjecting a hostile witness to cross-examination. Wherever Rand misstates her position, he seizes on the misstatement with triumph, as if he were actually accomplishing something beyond showing that Rand was not a very accurate writer. Robbins does, it is only fair to add, have many cogent things to say against Rand's theories of human nature, concept-formation, and individual rights, but a great deal of the rest of her system, including her theories of history and aesthetics, escapes critical scrutiny. He is even guilty of two gross misinterpretations. He accuses Rand (inaccurately of course) of empiricism and materialism, both of which Robbins, coming from the viewpoint of Calvinistic Christianity, regards as reprehensible. Now while Rand might have given lip service to certain empirical doctrines, she was no empiricist. The method she actually uses in defending her philosophical ideas is largely rationalistic, like Robbins own (though, admittedly, Robbins is a lot better at it than she is). The charge that Rand is a materialist is even more off target. How can someone who believed in the &quot;efficacy of consciousness&quot; and &quot;free will&quot; (let alone the notion that history is &quot;determined&quot; by ideas!) be regarded as a materialist? While it is true that Rand's belief in the so-called &quot;primacy of existence&quot; (i.e., her metaphysical realism) logically entails materialism, Rand refused to accept this logical inference, since it contradicted her theories of human nature and history. Now Robbins has no business trying to force a logical inference upon Rand that she herself rejected. She may be guilty of contradiction, but she is certainly not guilty of materialism.	2000-07-20
US	51345940	R2DRMEB8K918MK	086091495X	911565289	Wall Street: How It Works and for Whom	Books	4	17	34	N	N	Excellent though biased left-wing critique	This is a cut above the usual leftist whining about the horrors of capitalism. Henwood at least understands American high finance and has many pithy things to say about them, some of them all too true.  He is quite  right in sensing that all is not well with Wall Street and the stock  market.  Where he falls short is in his theoretical grasp of the situation.   Here his left-wing bias, which gives him such a sharp eye when it comes to  seeing institutional problems with Wall Street, leads him astray in  bringing perspective to his institutional insights.  Like the academic  economists he excoriates, he does not fully understand how credit excess  has completely distorted financial markets and made them much less  efficient than they otherwise would have been.  To be sure, he is right to  say that markets are not 100% efficient.  Markets merely give indications  of whether past market decisions have been well informed or not.   <br />I  cannot help mentioning one troublesome little point about Henwood's  analysis: while Henwood is correct to insist that Wall Street and corporate  capitalism in general do not allocate capital as efficiently as an  omniscient critic, with the benefit of hindsight, would, this does not mean  that capital could be allocated more efficiently if we adopted another  system or simply abolished the stock market altogether.  The problem is,  what is the alternative?  To date, no one has yet demonstrated that there  is a workable alternative that allocates capital better than capitalism.	2000-06-07
US	51345940	R160O7OFHQAZ84	0415084008	506857608	Realism and the Aim of Science: From the Postscript to The Logic of Scientific Discovery	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Most impressive defense of Popper's epistemology	Popper has presented his controversial views of induction and the nature of scientific discovery in a number of essays and books, but no where does he advance some of his seemingly paradoxical views better than in  &quot;Realism and the Aim of Science.&quot;  At first blush, Popper's views  of the nature of scientific inquiry seem to defy common sense.  He  believes, for instance, that the distinguishing mark of scientific theories  are their falsibiability, rather than verifiability; that audacity, rather  than caution, is the essence of science; that irrefutability is not a  virtue in a theory but a vice; and that no scientific theory ever becomes  more probable when evidence is discovered in its favor but must always  remain infinitely improbable.  What makes this book so remarkable is the  brilliant arguments Popper advances for these seemingly absurd views.   Popper demonstrates why these views are necessary in order to have a  rational view of science, arguing that the opposite view of knowledge, the  view that  regards verifiability as central to scientific inquiry, tends to  blind those seeking the truth from facts which would refute their theories.   Hence Popper's belief that, instead of trying to prove our theories, we  should try to falsify them instead.  That way, if there are facts out there  which would disprove them, we are much more likely to find them.	2000-04-12
US	51345940	R2WI3X8W7Z98C2	1560008474	585204733	The Revolt Against Dualism: An Inquiry Concerning the Existence of Ideas	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Masterful analysis of philosophy's most critical issue	This is not a book for those with a merely casual interest in philosophy.  It is much too technical and difficult for the general reader.  But for advanced students and the philosophically literate, this book is a must.  Lovejoy was a brilliant master at the art of philosophical dissection.  In  &quot;The Revolt Against Dualism,&quot; he dissects the view advanced by  the so-called &quot;neo-realists&quot; which denies the traditional  distinction between the perception of an object and the object itself.  Lovejoy subjects a variety of inordinately technical arguments defending  this view to devastating analysis, demonstrating how each of them fails to  make its case.  Lovejoy argues that all of these attempts to ignore the  distinction between the perception of things and the things themselves  constitutes a futile revolt against epistemological dualism.<br />Although  this issue of epistemological dualism and distinguishing between  perceptions of objects and the objects themselves may seem to be a mere  technical problem without any real world significance, it nevertheless is  one of the most important issues in philosophy.  Confusion concerning the  relation between ideas and the their objects in reality has probably given  rise to more errors in philosophy than any other issue.  All doctrines of  philosophical idealism, whether skeptical or mystical in nature, are rooted  in the failure to understand the duality between perceptions and the things  perceived.  The belief in what one philosopher called the &quot;efficacy of  consciousness&quot; (i.e., the belief that consciousness can be regarded as  a power in and of itself) can also be traced to this revolt against  dualism.  And so, although the issue of epistemological dualism may be a  mere technical problem without any immediate practical significance, it is  not without importance in philosophy.  If a philosopher is confused or  mistaken on this issue, he is likely to be confused or mistaken on a great  many others.  Hence, the significance of Lovejoy's masterful analysis of  the revolt against dualism.many others.  Hence, the significance of Lovejoy's masterful analysis of  the revolt against dualism.	2000-03-28
US	51345940	R1I0ZWT28ZFA6U	0895267853	184633403	The Machiavellians: Defenders of Freedom	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Best introduction to scientific politcs ever written	It is scandalous that this book should be out of print, for it is without a doubt the best primer on political science ever written.  If you are going to read only one book on politics, this should be it.  Burnham is no  ideologue with an axe to grind.  He merely seeks to describe how politics  works in the real world of fact.  In pursuit of this aim, he discusses five  of the most scientifically rigorous of all political thinkers: Machiavelli,  Vilfredo Pareto, Gaetano Mosca, Robert Michels, and Georges Sorel.   Together, these thinkers represent, according to Burnham, the Machiavellian  tradition in political thought. Machiavellians, Burnham tells us, regard  politics as a science devoted to describing facts as they really are, not  as one may wish them to be.<br />In a certain sense, I can understand why this  book is out of print.  Realism in politics is hardly popular.  What most  people seek for in political theory is not reality but a rationalization  for their own wishful thinking.	2000-03-18
US	51345940	R2EI0AMF55KOR0	067463442X	104223568	On Human Nature	Books	5	62	76	N	N	Best book ever written on human nature	Edward Wilson is probably the best writer on scientific subjects since Thomas Henry Huxley.  He writes in a style that combines trenchant lucidity with mastery of exposition.  Even the subtlest and most confusing  intricacies of human nature are rendered easily accessible by Wilson's deft  and engaging pen.  He is especially good at providing apt metaphors to  illustrate what might otherwise be difficult scientific conceptions.   Behavioral tendencies in human nature are described, for example, as  various channels, some of which are shallow (and can therefore more easily  be overcome), while others are much deeper (and therefore much more  resistant to efforts to counteract them).  As befitting a man of science,  Wilson supports his views, not with abstruse argumentation, but with facts  collected and verified by practicing scientists.<br />Yet despite the solidity  of Wilson's research, when \\"On Human Nature\\" first came out, it was  viciously attacked by left-wing ideologues who violently disagreed with  Wilson's conclusions regarding the limitations of man's nature.  The Left,  of course, wants to believe that human nature is largely fluid and  malleable.  Man, leftists argue, is the product, not of genetics or  biology, but of social conditions, which can be changed.  Under a \\"just\\"  society, human nature would become transformed and evil would virtually  disappear from the world.  Wilson's \\"On Human Nature\\" thoroughly demolishes  all these sterile hopes for man's secular salvation.  Using scientific  evidence, he demonstrates that most human behavior is genetic (or related  to or influenced by genetics) and therefore unalterable.  The sociologist  Vilfredo Pareto has probably described this view of man most trenchantly  when he wrote: \\"The centuries roll by, and human nature remains the same!\\"   In \\"On Human Nature,\\" Wilson shows us why Pareto is right.	2000-03-18
US	51345940	RBFP3PBVVLXHK	0915463733	84388854	Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics	Books	5	9	25	N	N	A voluminous defense of theoretical capitalism	This book is clearly the most encyclopedic defense of capitalism ever written.  It attempts to answer most, if not all, of the stereotypical objections raised by socialist and interventionist ideologues against the  capitalist system.  Reisman, for the most part, prefers to find support for  capitalism, not in facts or exhaustive empirical analysis, but in  rationalistic argumentation.  In doing so, he is merely following the  example set for him by his great teacher, Ludwig von Mises, and by the  other great intellectual influence in his life, the Aristotelian  philosopher Ayn Rand.  Both Mises and Rand, each in their own way, were  champions of rationalistic speculation.  Fortunately for Reisman,  rationalistic modes of thought are not entirely out of place in economics  and are even, in some respects, necessary.  Since economic behavior tends  to be much less irrational than other types of behavior, it is possible to   to deduce from the principles of human rationality economic theories which  serve as useful approximations to real world conditions.  It is important  to remember, however, that these deductions are in fact only approximations  and not precise descriptions of the way things actually are in economic  reality.  <br />There is one other thing the reader should be warned against  in relation to this book.  Reisman entitles his work \\"Capitalism.\\"  It is a  massive tome--possibly over a million words altogether.  You might expect  the book to constitute a more or less complete description of capitalist  reality--or at least that it would tell you everything you needed to know  in order to understand the nature of capitalism.  But if this is your  expectation, Mr. Reisman is going to disappoint you.  Mr. Reisman's view of  capitalism, like that of most economists, is a very narrow one.  He only  has eyes for the side of capitalism that lends itself most easily to being  expressed in some bloodless abstract theory.  That other side of  capitalism, the sidethat can only be accessed through a study of  historical and sociological facts, does not exist for Mr. Reisman.  For  this reason, Reisman's understanding of capitalism must be regarded as  one-sided and incomplete.  For example, take the problem of capital  distribution.  According to Mr. Reisman's theoretical view of capitalism,  under a capitalist system, capital is distributed to those most fit and  able to use it through various market mechanisms, such as the rate of  interest, the banking system, the stock exchange, etc. etc.  This, however,  is only part of the truth.  In the real world, raising capital by this  method presents an enormous problem, because those who are most predisposed  to save the money necessary for capital accumulation tend to be extremely  timid about investing it, while those best fitted to use this capital tend  to be reckless men of vision, eager to try new and daring economic  experiments with other people's money.  How then are these men of vision to  get their hands on the necessary capital?  Historically, they have resorted  to methods which tender-hearted moralists regard as \\"underhanded\\"--i.e.,  protectionism, credit inflation, bribery, exploitation, monopoly, forced  savings (through inflation), and outright fraud.  Despite his impressive  scholarship, Riesman has no idea that this seamier side of capitalism  exists.  As an ideological defender of capitalism, perhaps he doesn't want  to see it.  But it's there nonetheless.  All the brilliant theories in the  world won't make it go away.  Nevertheless, despite Reisman's  short-sightedness on this issue, his book is a great work in economic  theory.	2000-03-18
US	51345940	R2BB880GZO36B5	0930073185	347077241	Human Action: A Treatise on Economics	Books	5	27	40	N	N	A masterpiece of economic reasoning	\\"Human Action\\" is one of the classics of economics.  It may be the greatest theoretical work of economics ever written.  Mises focuses the light of his penetrating logic on just about every important subject in  economics.  He discusses, among other things, the theories of interest, the  trade cycle, inflationism, balance of payments, wages, monopoly, and  socialism.  Many of the theories advanced in this book represent important  breakthroughs in the history of economic thought.  His theory of the  impractibility of pure socialism, which he introduced in the Spring of  1920, and his monetary theory of the trade cycle (the only trade cycle  theory, incidentally, that adequately accounts for both the Great  Depression and the current stock market bubble and imminent crash),  represent two of the most important theoretical discoveries in modern  economics.  For his work on these two theories alone Mises deserves a place  among the greatest economists of all time.<br />But although \\"Human Action\\" is  a masterwork of economic thought, it would be a mistake to regard every  word of it as gospel truth.  \\"Human Action,\\" just like many another great  book, is hardly perfect.  It has a number of flaws, one of which can be  regarded as serious.  This one serious flaw is a consequence of Mises'  extreme rationalism.  Mises believed that because economics cannot be an  experimental science like physics or chemistry (since economic variables  cannot be isolated for experimental purposes), it therefore follows that  uniformities in economic phenomena can only be validated through logical  reasoning.  This view, known as Misesian apriorism, is only partially  correct.  Economics, if it is to tell us anything about the real world of  fact, cannot be just a theoretical science.  True, theory is necessary for  the reason mentioned above (i.e., inability to isolate variables), but  empiricism is also necessary to keep theories from straying too far from  the facts of reality.  In addition, it is important to keep mind that  economic theories are approximations only and not exact descriptions of  empirical facts.  Economic theories, including the economic theories  presented in \\"Human Action,\\" are deductions from over-simplified  observations of economic reality.  Reality being so much more complicated  than our theories about it ever can be, it would be the height of folly to  regard conclusions reached through logical reasoning alone as being  anything but approximations.  Yet this is how uncritical admirers of Mises,  including some of his most famous students and followers (e.g., Rothbard,  Riesman, Hans-Hermann Hoppe), regard the theories presented in \\"Human  Action.\\"  Those eager to get the most out of this book will seek to avoid  this error of rationalism, always keeping in mind that theories must  conform to facts, not facts to theories.	2000-03-18
US	51345940	R1UGVQ0PA7QDLP	069101972X	649589095	The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 2: Hegel, Marx, and the Aftermath	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Classic work in both philosophy and social thought	This book is not merely a classic of social thought, it is also a classic of philosophical history and political and social science. In the course of this book, (and in the preceding volume), Popper discusses Greek  philosophy, the rise and fall of Athens, the logical shortcomings of  philosophical idealism, the scientific method, the art of government, and  excesses of Hegelian and Marxist philosophy.  And he does it all in a style  that is both straightforward and elegant, precise and easy to follow.  Indeed, Popper's facility at rendering complex issues and ideas lucid and  assessible is so extraordinary that the reader is apt to forget the  profundity of Popper's analysis and the range and depth of his  thought.<br />Popper's mastery as a philosophic critic is no where in better  evidence than in his discussion of Aristotle in chapter 11. Popper  brilliantly shows why Aristotle cannot be regarded either as a scientific  thinker or even as a defender of reason.  Aristotle's doctrine of  definintions and his essentialistic epistemology, Popper contends, only  serve to bring about a great deal of hairsplitting, verbalism, and despair  with reason and argument.  &quot;Scholasticism and mysticism and despair in  reason, these are the unavoidable results of the essentialism of Plato and  Aristotle,&quot; concludes. &quot;And Plato's open revolt against freedom  becomes, with Aristotle, a secret revolt against reason.&quot; Since  Aristotle's speculative methods of determining matters of fact still  dominates the cerebral processes of most modern social thinkers (think of  Marcuse or Ayn Rand, for instance), Popper's critique serves as a rallying  cry for those of us who want to bring social thought and philosophy back  within the confines of empirical reality and the scientific method.	2000-02-23
US	51345940	R25NTRYU0OUV0L	0452011175	806327865	The Ominous Parallels: The End of Freedom in America	Books	2	17	35	N	N	Philosophical speculation paraded as history	Perhaps the most serious flaw plaguing Objectivist writings is the conspicuous tendency to advance uncorroborated assertions concerning matters of fact. You go through the entire canon of Rand's works, and you will repeatedly find one unsubstantiated claim after another. Rand disdained to do the necessary research required of anyone who wants to comment upon the great issues facing mankind. Leonard Peikoff, on the other hand, spent well over a decade doing the research for and writing &quot;The Ominous Parallels.&quot; The book contains 23 pages of footnotes--or, in other words, 23 pages more than all of Rand's books combined. Has Peikoff, in this book at least, remedied the defect most conspicuous in Objectivist writings by adding empirical corroboration to what otherwise would be simply another volume of rationalistic speculation?<br />Unfortunately, he has not remedied this defect. Despite the 23 pages of research, the empirical corroboration remains deficient. What we have here is not a book about the historical parallels between Germany and the United States, but simply about the parallels between German thought and American thought. Of course, Peikoff would argue that the parallels between the thought of these two countries are equivalent to the parallels between their histories, since thought, according to the Objectivist philosophy, determines history. This, however, is assuming the very point at issue. Before writing an entire book based on the assumption that history is determined by philosophy, Peikoff really needs to prove this point empirically. In this respect, I find the book to be a failure. He evades a great many facts which go directly against his main thesis.<br />One thing, though, must be said on behalf of Mr. Peikoff: he has picked a very interesting subject to write on. There are few topics more engaging as the rise of Naziism and the Third Reich. How did a European nation like Germany, one of the great centers of Western scholarship and culture, become, in the manner of a few decades, a human slaughterhouse of Stalinist proportions? Peikoff fingers German philosophy. This is hardly an original thesis: Santayana had done so in his &quot;Egotism in German Philosophy&quot; and Popper, even more famously, in his masterful &quot;The Open Society and its Enemies.&quot; If we compare these books with Peikoff's, we see precisely what is missing in &quot;The Ominous Parallels.&quot; Popper and Santayana have a real appreciation for the depth and complexities of both history and philosophy. Peikoff's analysis, on the other hand, remains steadfastly fixed upon the mere surface of things. He has eyes only for those facts which correspond to this thesis; he is blind to all facts which contradict it. In his account of American intellectual history, he fails to mention several prominent anti-Kantian American philosophers, such as C.S. Pierce and, most notably, George Santayana, whose classic &quot;Life of Reason&quot; contains a blistering critique of Kant which both anticipates and goes well beyond Rand's. Nor is there any mention of the individualist thinker H.L. Mencken, who was regarded by Walter Lippman as the most influential writer during the twenties. But to acknowledge the importance of these thinkers would have undercut Peikoff's thesis that American thought was dominated by the influence of Kant and Hegel; and so Peikoff conveniently ignores them.	2000-02-23
US	51345940	R2K1BKNXLOB0BT	0451138937	448139820	Philosophy: Who Needs It	Books	1	21	52	N	N	Hardly a practical philosophy for living on earth	The first essay, the title essay, is perhaps as good an introduction to Rand's philosophy as anything she wrote, for it introduces to the reader the two most important, yet least appreciated, aspects of the Objectivist  creed: namely, Rand's theory of human nature and her philosophy of history.  Her theory of human nature states that men are the product of whatever  philosophical convictions they happen to &quot;program&quot; into their  minds.  Her theory of history states that these philosophical convictions  that people end up programming into their minds ultimately come from some  philosopher. Not surprisingly, she offers not a single shred of  scientifically validated evidence in support of these extremely  controversial views. We are suppose to believe her on her say-so alone! Is  this what is meant by &quot;reason&quot;--to accept whatever Rand says, no  matter how greatly it may contradict the findings of scientists and  scholars?<br />I am enormously amused by the reviewer who declares that anyone  who does not accept Rand's unsubstantiated dogmas and live by them is  guilty of accepting the premises of death. But, begging the reviewer's  pardon, I fail to see how trying to follow principles founded on  philosophical speculation and wishful thinking can in any ways be regarded  as either practical or pro-life. Let us not forget that one of the most  important aspects of life is relating to other people. But if you have  little, if any, understanding of what human beings really are like, you're  probably going to have trouble relating to them. This is proved by the  example of Rand's own life. Nearly all of her original disciples, all of  whom accepted her principles and regarded her as the greatest mind on  earth, ended up breaking with her sooner or later. In other words, she  couldn't even get along with her own disciples. What does this say about  the practical value of her Objectivist philosophy? The practical value, at  least in terms of understandinghuman beings, is close to zero.	2000-02-22
US	51345940	R2P5HP15LLT1CO	0452010462	144283159	5: The Voice of Reason: Essays in Objectivist Thought (The Ayn Rand Library)	Books	2	17	56	N	N	Interesting essays ruined by wrong-headed analysis	In some ways, this is the best collection of essays by Rand and her colleagues. It contains two of Rand's best essays (her \\"Apollo 11\\" and her somewhat prophetic \\"Global Balkanization\\") and some thought provoking  essays by Leonard Peikoff on education and medicine. The rest of the essays  are a bit of a mixed bag, and all of them suffer from that sort of bad mode  of interpretation that afflicts nearly all Objectivist writings. The real  problem is that, time and time again, Rand and her disciples derive  conclusions about matters of fact through logical reasonings alone rather  than through research and experimentation. Thus we find Rand blaming the  phenomenon of \\"racism\\" on the mixed economy. On what basis does she make  such an assertion? Purely on the basis of her own philosophical  speculations. Never mind the fact that, during the nineteenth century, when  the economy was far less \\"mixed\\" than it is today, racism was considerably  worse. Another example is Rand's contention that suicides among the young  are caused by the dismal state of contemporary culture. Again, no evidence  is offered in support of this assertion. Not a single case study is  examined or even referred to. For someone who, like Rand, claims to be a  realist, this is inexcusable.<br />But perhaps the principle objection to this  book has to be Rand's inexorable tendency to exaggerate and distort. I am  certainly no admirer of contemporary culture, but Rand's analysis of what  she calls the \\"culture value deprivation\\" simply goes too far. She gathers  a number of horrendous examples and then presents as if they were fully  representative of contemporary culture as a whole. \\"If you wonder what is  wrong with people today, consider the fact that no laboratory experiment  could ever reproduce so thorough a state of value-deprivation [as does  contemporary culture],\\" she concludes smugly. But is this really a fair and  balanced assessment of the effect of culture on people today? Is the effectof culture really equivalent to the sort of sensory-deprivation experiments  that Rand mentions earlier in her essay? No, of course not: this is stating  matters way to strongly. What is wrong with people is not so much the  culture, but the fact that people are human and therefore fail to meet  Rand's impossible standards of what she believes they \\"ought\\" to be like.  She would be dissatisfied with them no matter what age she lived in. And  why? Because the overwhelming majority of them would never accept  her  philosophy--a philosophy which knows so little of the human heart.	2000-02-22
US	51345940	R2G1CHJ15TBNSR	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	3	12	24	N	N	A provacative but futile exercise in wishful thinking	If for no other reason than that it includes three essays by fed chairman Alan Greenspan, this is an important, and sometimes even a thought-provoking work. True enough, the theories presented in this book  will tell you a great deal more about the sentiments of their authors than  they will about how politics works in the real world of fact, but that is  true of nearly all books on politics.<br />The main flaw in this book is that  it is far too obssessed with proving what &quot;ought&quot; to be rather  than with showing what actually is. Rand regarded politics as a mere  extension of ethics. I would argue that this is a mistake. Politics is  about power and the competition for social and political advantage. It is  not about what &quot;ought to be.&quot; <br />Rand regarded the theory of  rights presented in this book as one of her great achievements. Perhaps on  a purely theoretical level she is correct. But on a practical level, she is  surely wrong. Theories of rights, when examined empirically, are merely  speculative (and hence impotent) attempts to regulate the division of  social advantage. In reality, however, no merely speculative theory of  right can be found to regulate the division of social advantage: those  individuals with the greater strength, intelligence, and shrewdness take  the lion's share, regardless of what any moral philosopher might say. Nor  is it clear how any theory of rights, even if it could be established  logically, could be enforced in a real world dominated by vested interests  and political sharks. It is for this reason that a great deal of what is  presented by Rand and her colleagues in this book appears to me quite  beside the point--a mere exercise in wishful thinking. The laissez-faire  capitalism which Rand advocated is purely utopian. But it is not utopian  for economic reasons, as leftists naively believe, but for political  reasons: the corporation and politicians who run this country will never  tolerate a system of laissez-faire (they are not about to give up their  power).	2000-02-19
US	51345940	R1FNG1LB8UGM7I	1573922102	78874877	The Life of Reason (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	115	117	N	N	Masterpiece from the 20th century's wisest philosopher	In a century in which philosophy has been taken over by pedants eager to \\"analyze\\" every  technical problem ever devised by the perverted ingenuity of the mind of man--technical problems, moreover, which, as Santayana  himself once put it, are &quot;solved best by not raising them&quot;--it is  comforting to know that at least one major philosopher never forgot what  philosophy is really all about: namely, wisdom and love of knowledge.  Whereas other philosophers seek to impress by being original or  controversial or obscure, Santayana merely attempts to describe things as  they are.  Santayana is above all a realist, not merely in the  philosophical sense of believing that external objects exist outside of  man's consciousness, but also in the more general sense of accepting the  world as it really is and not as we might wish it could be.  So many  philosophers seem motivated primarily by a desire to rationalize away the  disagreeable aspects of reality.  Santayana's approach is different.  While  recognizing that reality has its disagreeable elements (Santayana was  certainly no optimist), he seeks to distinguish, as he once put it, the  part of this disagreeable or mixed reality \\"that could be loved and chosen  from the reminder.\\"<br />In \\"The Life of Reason,\\" Santayana sought to  explain how reason emerges in five separate areas of human existence:  thought, society, religion, art and science.  Originally, Santayana devoted  one book to each subject.  In this present edition, all five books have  been abridged by the author and made into a single volume.  The unabridged  version is superior to this one.  The abridged version is more difficult to  follow, because in the process of condensing five books into one, gaps have  been created in the exposition of Santayana's thought.  Unfortunately, the  original five volume edition is no longer in print.<br />The best two volumes  of the unabridged version were \\"Reason in Common Sense\\" and \\"Reason in  Religion.\\"  The first of these books shows how men came to discover the  external reality of nature and the independent existence of other minds.  There are chapters on how thought is practical, on the \\"malicious  psychology\\" of philosophers like Kant, Hume and Berkeley, on how thought is  practical, and on Santayana's contention that ideas are not abstractions.  \\"Reason in Religion\\" is one of the most interesting books on religion ever  published and ought to be read by every atheist and agonistic who regards  religion as a mere tissue of delusion and irrationality.  Santayana, while  denying the literal truth of religion, contends that religion nonetheless  represents a sort of poetic and moral truth expressed in symbols that can  be grasped on a very human level.  \\"Religion remains an imaginative  achievement, a symbolic representation of moral reality which may have a  most important function in vitalising the mind and in transmitting, by way  of parables, the lessons of experience.\\"<br />The over-riding theme of \\"The  Life of Reason\\" is Santayana's conviction that only by recognizing the  material world and the \\"conditions of existence,\\" can the spirit become  enlightened concerning the source of its troubles and the means of its  happiness or deliverance.  There is, I would contend, no philosophical work  of the twentieth century that is more sane, that expresses better judgment  on the main issues of philosophy, or that demonstrates a deeper wisdom  about the nature of things than this classic work.The first of these books shows how men came to discover the  external reality of nature and the independent existence of other minds.   There are chapters on how thought is practical, on the \\"malicious  psychology\\" of philosophers like Kant, Hume and Berkeley, on how thought is  practical, and on Santayana's contention that ideas are not abstractions.   \\"Reason in Religion\\" is one of the most interesting books on religion ever  published and ought to be read by every atheist and agonistic who regards  religion as a mere tissue of delusion and irrationality.  Santayana, while  denying the literal truth of religion, contends that religion nonetheless  represents a sort of poetic and moral truth expressed in symbols that can  be grasped on a very human level.  \\"Religion remains an imaginative  achievement, a symbolic representation of moral reality which may have a  most important function in vitalising the mind and in transmitting, by way  of parables, the lessons of experience.\\"<br />The over-riding theme of \\"The  Life of Reason\\" is Santayana's conviction that only by recognizing the  material world and the \\"conditions of existence,\\" can the spirit become  enlightened concerning the source of its troubles and the means of its  happiness or deliverance.  There is, I would contend, no philosophical work  of the twentieth century that is more sane, that expresses better judgment  on the main issues of philosophy, or that demonstrates a deeper wisdom  about the nature of things than this classic work.	2000-02-17
US	51345940	R3ADREOTSBRHEU	0452011019	118162393	Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand (Ayn Rand Library)	Books	2	19	44	N	N	Solid presentation of a bad philosophy	If you are to read any book on Rand's philosophy, this is the one I would recommend.  While not as flashy as Rand's philosophical writings, Peikoff's  book at least has the virtue of being systematic.  In the span of about 400  pages, you can decide for yourself whether Objectivism is a good or bad  philosophy.  <br />My own opinion is that, if judged merely on how much its  doctrines accord with reality, Objectivism cannot be judged a very good  philosophy.  While many of Rand's ideas may have an element of truth in  them, very few of them accord all that closely with reality.   A  philosophy, however, cannot be judged solely on the basis of its factual  veracity.  If that were true, Plato would have to be regarded as a bad  philosopher.  Philosophies are usually read, not for the factual  information they may contain, but for the sentiments they express and the  inspiration they offer.  As inspiration, Rand's philosophy can be regarded  in a much more favorable light.  <br />My own preference is to judge a  philosophy on the degree of its accordance to reality.  Inspiration is fine  and good as far as it goes, but not at the price of knowing the facts as  they really are.  As far as I can tell, Rand was right only about one major  issue in philosophy: the objectivity of reality.  Unfortunately, the  arguments she presents on behalf of realism are all invalid.  The axioms  she presents are cognitively empty and hence empirically worthless.  In  fact, a solipsist would have no trouble agreeing with them.  The reason for  this should be obvious to those that are not innocent of the ability to  think critically: Rand's axioms only assert that something exists  possessing consciousness and identity.  It doesn't make clear either what  exists or what has identity.  But this is precisely the issue at stake  between idealists and realists.  Idealists do not deny that existence  exist.  They do not even deny that existence is prior to consciousness.   Where they differ from realists is in regards to the question of what  exists.  Idealists believe that existence is primarily mental (and the  mental should not be confused with consciousness, as Rand confuses it).   Realists (or at least consistent realists) believe that existence is  primarily material.<br />Rand's epistemology is a confused mess.  Peikoff does  the best he can to make a convincing case for it, but he only succeeds by  withdrawing into a swamp of vague expressions and unsupported assertions.   The real problem here is that Rand put way too much emphasis on  articulation.  Knowledge can only be validated, she insisted, if it can be  articulated.  But what makes Rand so sure that knowledge (I mean here  knowledge in general) must be validated? Peikoff says that unless people  can explain how it is that knowledge is possible, they will become skeptics  eager to follow the first dictator that comes along.  But is this really  true?  Most people cannot explain how swimming is possible, yet this does  not prevent them from being able to swim.  There are many things people  know how to do without being able to explain how they know how to do them.   Most men could care less about such questions as: How do I know what I  know?  Knowledge is a matter of animal faith: men believe they know what  they know because it is in their nature to believe.  Skepticism is contrary  to human nature.  That is why it poses no threat to anyone.<br />To the extent  that Rand's ethics, politics, and aesthetics deal with questions about what  ought to be, to that extent do they belong to the inspirational branch of  philosophy and are of no relevance to a factual examination of Rand's  system.  Only when she makes factual assertions about morality, politics,  and art can she be judged on the basis of empirical reality.  Keeping this  in mind, I would say this of Rand's contributions to these branches of  philosophy: they are close to worthless.  Her ethics makes assumptions  about human beings that are simply not true.  Reason, contrary to what Rand  asserted, is not man's sole means of survival.  (The Italian social thinker  Vilfredo Pareto refuted this view in his treatise on sociology, translated  under the title, \\"The Mind and Society.\\")  <br />Rand's politics is even more  obtuse.  Her theory of rights demonstrates a complete ignorance of the  subject.  Her philosophical attention is almost exclusively focused on  presenting a logical proof of her theory of rights.  But even if her theory  were proved logically, it is not clear how the theory could be used to  regulate the division of social advantage.  Those classes with the greater  strength, intelligence and shrewdness will always take the lion's share,  regardless of any theory of rights.  The fact that Rand had no notion that  this was the case demonstrates the extent of her naivete.<br />To sum up:  Rand's philosophy (as presented by Leonard Peikoff), if judged by how  closely it accords with empirical reality, must be regarded as close to  worthless.  Those who want to learn about reality from philosophy would be  better served reading the works of Santayana, Popper, and Polanyi.	2000-01-25
US	51345940	R3PP85YPIZBEUD	0451156455	128148757	The New Left: The Anti-Industrial Revolution	Books	3	5	33	N	N	A propagandist at the height of her powers	If anyone doubts that Rand was a masterful propagandist, he need only read two of the essay included in this book, \\"Apollo and Dionysus\\" and \\"The Comprachicos.\\"  These essays, which Rand herself regarded as her best,  demonstrate her ability to impose a peculiar vision of things on her  readers.  \\"Apollo and Dionysus\\" compares the launching of Apollo 11 to the  Woodstock festival.  While I agree with her that Apollo 11 was a great  accomplishment and Woodstock a scandal, I find her analysis, as usual,  deeply flawed.  Of particular note is Rand's hatchet job of Charles  Lindbergh, where, like some ambulance chasing lawyer trying to smear an  honest witness on the stand, she most shamefully distorts Lindbergh's own  words in order to make him look like an idiot.  Nonetheless, it is all  superb propaganda for her own views deifying \\"reason\\" at the expense of  emotion and intuition. \\"The Comprachico\\" is even more impressive as  propaganda.  Her comparison of public education with the nomadic  association of the 17th century that kidnapped children in order to  disfigure them is nothing less than a stroke a genius.  Propaganda doesn't  get any better than this.  It is unfortunate that her analysis again  misfires.  It is clear from reading the essay that Rand knew considerably  less about human nature than a novice in a nunnery.  Although she says many  things that are true, in the end she feels compelled to squeeze it all into  the procrustean bed of her Objectivist philosophy, thereby destroying  whatever scientific validity her commentary might otherwise have had.  But  no one reads Rand for the scientific value of her observations.  Her  observations rarely have any scientific value.  What they read Rand for is  her unique vision of things, her vision of a heroic man in a rational  universe.  Never mind that this vision does not correspond with certain  elemental realities.  What are realities to a person in search of a vision?   What people who are in search of a vision want is not a way into reality,  but a way out of it.  Reality is an unceasing flux without rhyme or reason.   In order to find life bearable, most people need to screen out this  horrible, senseless flux with some sort of vision.  Rand not only gives  them a vision, but she provides propaganda on behalf of this vision that is  second to none.  If you have ever wondered what all the fuss is about  concerning Rand, simply read this book.  Propaganda on behalf of a utopian  vision of reality does not get any better than this.	2000-01-17
US	51345940	RD1ERJ5SGBX2C	0822601796	771453833	With Charity Toward None: An Analysis of Ayn Rand's Philosophy	Books	2	5	14	N	N	Well-meaning, but dull, critique of Rand's philosophistry	Professor O'Neill's book was the first philosophical critique of Rand's doctrines ever published (Ellis' &quot;Is Objectivism a Religion&quot; is not really a philosophical critique). As such, it can be regarded as a sort of pioneering effort. When it was originally published in 1970, the very idea of taking Rand seriously enough to criticize her was something of a novelty. In those days, almost all respectable people regarded Rand as a crazy person. Some even thought she was dangerous. Today, we know better. Rand was not a crazy person; she was simply ignorant and confused. Nor was she dangerous. The utopia her books offered will never appeal to a wide audience. Most human beings need either belief in God or belief in society to get by. By rejecting both these beliefs, Rand divided herself forever from the hearts and minds of the overwhelming majority of the human race.<br />O'Neill's critique suffers from the usual flaws of a pioneering effort. He is unable to grasp precisely what Rand is all about, and consequently ends up critiquing distortions of her philosophy rather than the actual doctrines Rand propagated. This defect is not helped by Mr. O'Neill's dryasdust style, which makes &quot;Charity Toward None&quot; a very difficult read. Dullness is the number one defect of academic philosophy. If philosophy is to make any difference in the world, it cannot be written as if it were meant to be a soporific.<br />During Rand's life, her admirers could boast that no one had yet been able to refute the philosophy of their idol. The publication of Professor O'Neill's book did little to change this state of affairs. While he makes a few good points along the way, O'Neill's inability to understand the terms Rand uses to express her ideas renders his critique largely verbal and semantic. Unable, for instance, to fathom what Rand means by the term &quot;objective,&quot; our intrepid Professor ends up going off on all kinds of irrelevant tangents, demolishing in systematiceffusion a number of arguments which Rand herself would never have been caught dead advocating. Those who wish to refute Rand should avoid trying to get at her through verbal analysis. No one cares whether Rand's use of philosophical terms corresponds to the way academic philosophers use those same terms. What is important is whether Rand's views correspond to empirical reality. It is on the empirical side that Rand is most vulnerable. If you want to demolish Rand's system, simply compare her philosophy to the facts. It will not compare favorably.	2000-01-17
US	51345940	RW1NU2MGT87C0	1561142506	877203782	Ayn Rand's Marginalia: Her Critical Comments on the Writings of over 20 Authors	Books	1	12	23	N	N	Rand never looked worse	I agree with other &quot;negative&quot; reviewers who regard this work as embarrassing.  This book ends up making Rand look very bad indeed.  In note after note, she seems determined to misunderstand, distort, even re-write  what she is reading.  If I were the executors of Rand's estate, I would  have burned these notes.  To publish them to the world is practically  scandalous.	2000-01-15
US	51345940	R2LLEFD6KIU95U	0271014415	448978191	Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical	Books	3	8	19	N	N	Sciabarra confuses Dialectical Method with mere verbalism	Those reviewers who have noted that Mr. Sciabarra understands Rand better than Mr. Peikoff are not far off the mark. Under Sciabarra's pen, Rand's philosophy of Objectivism ends of coming off as more sophisticated and subtle than it does under either Peikoff or even Rand herself. And yes, Sciabarra does give to Objectivism an aura of academic respectability - if that were important. What about Mr. Sciabarra's thesis that Rand is an unwitting practitioner of Hegel's notorious dialectical method? Well, in a technical and literal sense, Sciabarra is wrong about this, for the simple reason that there is no such thing as the dialectical method. No one has ever, in the strict sense of the word, thought dialectically, any more than they have omitted measurements in the formation of their concepts (as Rand claimed). However, if instead of interpreting Sciabarra in a strict technical sense, we merely interpret him figuratively, then we must admit that there is an element of truth in his thesis. Especially insightful is Sciabarra's discovery of similarities between Hegel's method of thought and Rand's. What both these thinkers had in common is that they attempted to determine matters of fact through the manipulation of logical, moral, and rhetorical constructions - in other words, through what Karl Popper has called &quot;verbalism.&quot; The &quot;dialectical method&quot; is merely a rationalization of this verbalism - as is, incidentally, Rand's defense of the validity of concepts. What you get when you read these two philosophers is a lot of verbiage and very little evidence. If you go through either Rand's or Hegel's writings, you'll find assertion after assertion supported, if at all, by purely verbal arguments. Rand claims, for instance, that human beings create their own personalities out of their own &quot;free will&quot; (whatever that means!). This extremely controversial view she fails to back up with a single shred of scientifically validated evidence. Rand oftenurged people to check their premises. Someone should have urged Rand to check her facts. Facts are prior to premises, as an (supposed) empirical-realist like Rand should have known.	2000-01-15
US	51345940	R1UCDKIPR0NL95	0451149165	970161710	The Romantic Manifesto: A Philosophy of Literature; Revised Edition (Signet Shakespeare)	Books	1	40	96	N	N	Rand the Philistine	Don't let all of Rand's talk about being the fountainhead of the next cultural renaissance fool you.  As any careful reader of this tome will see all too clearly, Rand despises most of what passes for great art in Western  Civilization.  Flaubert she dismisses as \\"carefully superficial\\"; Thomas  Wolfe she describes as \\"a chaos of floating abstractions\\"; Tolstoy gives  her \\"the feeling of an unsanitary backyard which I do not care to enter\\";  the Impressionists she accuses of \\"silliness\\"; she regards \\"The Blue Danube  Waltz\\" as worse than a funeral march (and what, may I ask, is wrong with a  funeral march?).  Thomas Mann's novel &quot;The Magic Mountain&quot; and  Theodore Dreiser's &quot;An American Tragedy,&quot; two of the most  brilliant novels to come out of the twenties, are held up by Rand as  examples of bad novels!  &quot;Anna Karenina&quot; is derided as \\"the most  evil book in serious literature.\\"     Among serious writers, only Victor  Hugo and Dostoevsky meet with Rand's full approval.  Nearly all others,  including Shakespeare, are guilty of \\"naturalism,\\" which Rand arbitrarily  defines as the category of art that denies \\"volition.\\"  What this alleged  denial of volition actually means in terms of empirical reality is anyone's  guess.  After weeks of study and prayer, I came to the following conclusion  as to its meaning: by \\"denial of volition,\\" Rand merely means anyone who  rejects her theory of human nature.  But what is her theory of human  nature?  Rand's theory of human nature asserts that man is a \\"being of  self-made soul.\\" According to Rand, God did not create man, man created  man.     Rand's aesthetics is, in many respects, merely a rationalization  of her theory of human theory.  All art which portrays men as Rand wished  them to be is, to her way of thinking, good.  All art which portrays men as  they really are is, to her way of thinking, flawed or bad.  Since most  great art portrays men as they really are, not as Rand wished them to be,Rand was, ipso facto, opposed to most art.  This is corroborated by Rand's  biographers, Nathaniel and Barbara Branden, who claim that Rand persecuted  those of her acquaintances who liked art she disapproved of.   I believe  that Rand's narrow, philistine views on art do her millions of adoring fans  a disservice.  Instead of encouraging them to explore the great world of  books, she tells them that there is hardly anything worth reading beyond  Victor Hugo, Dostoevsky and herself.  In effect, she urges them to close  their minds to the great cultural heritage of Western Civilization.  I  doubt that she ever did anything worse than this.	2000-01-15
US	51345940	R2N2VUF1Y01L8V	0451163087	465394256	For the New Intellectual: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand (50th Anniversary Edition) (Signet)	Books	1	19	50	N	N	Out of her depth	The title essay of this collection demonstrates to perfection what is wrong with Rand and her philosophy of Objectivism. In the essay, Rand claims that the course of history is determined by abstract philosophy--in other words, by mere patter. Her proof consists of nothing but a brief sketch of the history of civilization followed by a series of misleading descriptions of the doctrines of the major philosophers. No serious scholar in either history or philosophy could take anything Rand asserts all that seriously. She claims, for instance, that the Roman Empire fell because it was unable to resist the invasion of the barbarians. This view of the fall of the Roman Empire was refuted 80 years ago by the Belgian historian Henri Pirenne. (Also, it should be remember, that only the Western half of the Roman Empire &quot;fell.&quot; The Eastern half remained on its feet until 1453, i.e., during the entire medieval period of Western Europe.)<br />Rand had a very distorted view of the doctrines of the major philosophers of Western Civilization. She says of Hume's philosophy: &quot;If it were possible for an animal to describe the content of his consciousness, the result would b a transcript of Hume's philosophy.&quot; She accuses Kant of believing &quot;that man's concepts are only a delusion,...a collective delusion which no one has the power to escape.&quot; Nietzche, she declares, regarded reason, logic, principles as &quot;futile and debilitating&quot; and morality as &quot;useless.&quot; Anyone who has taken the trouble to read and understand these philosophers knows that these descriptions of their ideas are distorted almost beyond recognition.<br />The trouble with Rand is that she was not qualified to write a book about the causal determinants of history because her knowledge of the subject was superficial and afflicted with the irresponsibility of the dilettante. She really doesn't have any understanding of the tremendous problems facing those who attempt to investigate such matters. She is like a high school student who, after reading an introductory guide to physics, thinks he's ready to pronounce on what's wrong with quantum mechanics. Rand, when it came to history, was out of her depth.	2000-01-15
