US	51341931	R11ZF7SYN65S9C	140336799X	447307499	The Hidden Face of Terrorism: The Dark Side of Social Engineering, from Antiquity to September 11	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	An eye opener everyone must read.	I knew nothing of this book except for the other reviews on Amazon when I purchased it and when it arrived I was kinda skeptical.  I am pretty much a &quot;Conspiracy Theorist&quot; Collins talks about in his book but when I first opened it I must admit the appearance of the text was unorthodox.  Quite frankly the book looks like a college term paper composed the day before it was due, double spaced in large font and full of quotes and parenthetical citations.  But once i got reading I couldn't stop and I flew threw it in about an hour and then passed it on to some friends.  The book reds more like an essay and really will open your eyes to many things most Americans would never be exposed to or otherwise pay attention too.  The great thing is how Collins organized his information.  Instead of just indicting the American government he uses excerpts and quotes from documents and novels to point out issues that are over looked.  What really touched me was how Collins handled the Bush admistrations stance of bad mouthing those Americans who do not agree with how the war on terror is being fought and by claiming that anyone against the governemnts attempts to pass new laws granting them powers to avoid normal American procedures for the FBI and CIA.  Collins ponts out how Americans concerned with the governments motives in seeking out these expanded powers are suspect to serious population control measures and shows how the government pins anyone who does question them as an actual terrorist themselves.  This is important for everyone to note because as an American citizen we have the right to question our elected leaders and that does not mean we are for the enemy.  Buy this book it will really make you think.  I especially recommend this book to those who have rather sheltered lives or are not accustomed to reading about corruption of governemtns.	2003-11-18
US	51341931	R2O0QNA39W3U6K	081269547X	521884179	The Great Zapruder Film Hoax: Deceit and Deception in the Death of JFK	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Interesting...	I find it all very interesting how intelligent the conspirators (if there were any) were to plan such a beautifully orchestrated manuever.  As in many mob or organized crime trials the most incriminating piece of evidence seems to come from a Stooley or a member who has turned in order to receive a break of prison time.  Th defense then turns and discredits this witness and their credibility for that very reason they agreed to testify in the first place.  The Kennedy assassination has proven no different.  If their was a conspiracy by any or multiple organizations they were smart enough to involve either individuals who could not be trusted or the true dregs of society so that any investigation into the murder could be squashed easily by crushing the credibility of witnesses and evidence.  Quite possibly the biggest fear I have is no one will ever have the proper evidence to truly know what happened.  After the murder there was an enormous amount of evidence collected and even more mistakes made.  This evidence was then Classified and held away from the American public by the very organizations that most have indicted in a conspiracy (The CIA, FBI, and Federal government.)  It took years for even some items like the Zapruder film to even reach prosecutors hands much less the publics eyes and trickles of documents have followed after.  My issue with this is how reliable can any of this evidence be regardless of which side of the fence you are on.  Either way those indicted by investigators where holding all the cards and had ample time to destroy, modify, and prepare the evidence however they saw fit.  If you wanted to stimulate conspiracy ideas that involved the mob or even more the editing of the Zapruder film seems just however the Secret Service has admitted repeated to lying about numerous mistakes made on that day, and they spent an awful lot of time attempting to cover up those mistakes and thus motive for removing the scene of the stopped limosuine appears.So you can play both sides again.  After Stone's film JFK in 91 there was a lot of preassure placed on Washington to release more of the documents sooner than 2032 or whenever so they hired a committee to trudge through the millions of documents and condense them to a 400,000 page report that all Americans can see.  This some 30 years or more after the assassination and what about the other 1.6 million documents.  What information in those documents does the government feel inadequate or useless.  And how much have these documents changed over 30 years.  So however this information is used, either pro-conspiracy or con I really cannot endorse either side since the evidence has been in the hands of the accussed for so long it no longer holds any validity.  Remember it was our government who basically said we are too stupid of a nation to handle this information and thus we never saw it until recently.  It is also our government that developed the CIA in the 40's to act completely in secrecy of the people and without regard to Federal rules.  America lost a lot more than a president that day regardless of who killed him.  We lost a lot of our liberty and our freedom.  We no longer have the power over our government.	2003-11-06
US	51341931	R2PTI6Z2EY6PU9	0312900600	694074678	Boot	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Synopsis is misleading somewhat.	Right off I would have to recommend this book mostly to young persons seeking to joining the Marine Corps and perhaps maybe anyone looking to join an armed service.  However a few things about it limit it's appeal.  <br />First the book is dated.  Published in 1987 a lot has changed and while I am a civilian I am a military buff and can tell that the book is behind in many aspects.<br />The second thing and the biggest in my eyes is that it really isn't much of a documentary of life in Boot camp.  Rather it is more of a history of Marine training and the type of training one might find in the Corps.  The author spends most of his time telling the history of the Corps training practices and describing said exercises and focuses very little on the actual recruits he followed through the ordeal.  The information is informative especially if you are looking at joining the Marines as it would give you a head start in many ways but for the casual reader it gets pretty bland and repetative.  Cruz does offer insight into the recruits eyes from time to time with one recruits letters home to mom and sometimes some stories of a few other guys but they are very scarce.  For the most part he tells a little of what is going on then goes on to explain the drills being taught and how those drills are carried out, graded and even how they were developed.  <br />The book is not overly enjoyable but is interesting.  However it does suffer greatly from the authors lack of objectivisim.  After completing the book I had a serious belief that his motives for writing the book were not to educate people about the Boot camp process in the Marines but rather to complain about how politically correct ideology and beauracratic changes have weakened the Corps.  Cruz repeatedly itterates how various changes in policy have limited Drill Instructors ability to truly prepare recruits for battle and he continues this theme over and over.  Now, I do agree with Cruz for the most part but I think if hisgoal was to analyze the change in modern military practices in the U.S. today the book should clearly state that rather than boast to be an account of modern Boot camp training.  <br />Overall if you are thinking about joining the Marines or are just a military buff I would recomened reading the book as it is informative while not being overly intriguing.  It is short enough that you can fly through it in sort fashion.  About 2 hours for me and i am not that fast a reader.	2003-10-12
US	51341931	ROY42BNM351GQ	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Not as good as expected.	Having been on a nostalgic classic Sci Fi trip lately I decided to pick up as many classics as possible and Ender's Game fit the bill.  I have heard a lot about this novel and it's sequels as a definitive Sci Fi collection so I expected solid things from Card's work.  Alas I was disappointed.  Perhaps it is because I am relatively young and in this modern age classic Sci Fi is becoming outdated by modern technology but I also found Cards writing to be a tad borish.  I read the entire book on a flight to Las Vegas so it is not a long read but the plotline really dragged.  The characters didn't seem to define themselves in any great manner and the biggest issue I had was that the whole point of everything was never truly presented.  At times I got a little lost at what was going on and had to track backwards to pick it all up again.  Once able to keep on track I found the plot to be predictable and redundant.  Ender was kind of an annoying character who just beat obstacle after obstacle with little explanation of how he did so.  By the end of the novel my mind was so numb from the monotonous plotline I pretty much missed the whole point of the book.  I wanted to like this book but it was just too dated and too simple to really have met my expectations.  It is truly an example of how Sci Fi is getting dated in todays society and if you want some real good classic sci fi stick to Herbert's Dune series or some of the newer stuff coming out.	2003-06-03
US	51341931	RLHOS6MBMNZ5B	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A two part book essentially!	When I read the other online reviews here after just starting this novel I got kinda confused.  I have heard from Sci Fi fans all over that this is one of the greatest novels ever and the first half of this book I could not put down.  But unfortunately about that halfway mark the book bogs down and never fully recovers.  The first few hundred pages are exciting, intriguing, and entertaining, while the second half meerely gets into a whole religious spin and the characters really become nothing more than annoying.  I could barely finish this book and that upset me since it started so well.  It is rare to see this in a single novel but very normal in say a trilogy.  Alas though the book is worth it for the first few hundred pages alone and if you are looking to catch up on some Sci Fi classics you have to start here.  It is an enjoyable read and relatively short.	2003-06-03
US	51341931	R2LEYWP7QCFHWZ	1572971959	710876450	Iron Man 2: Operation A.I.M.	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Simply awful!	While Greg Cox's first Iron Man novel was passable and somewhat entertaining this book was a complete weaste of time.  There really was no plot at all and what story he did make of this mess was so simplistic it made me sick.  I skipped huge chunks of this story and still feel as though I missed nothing. To give an example of how bad it is Iron Man contempates to himself numerous tricks the enemies may be doing then dismisses them only for them to come true.  THis happens EVERY CHAPTER and it was so predictable it was just awful.  I can't think of a single good thing to say about this novel.	2003-05-17
US	51341931	R1ZBY06D4C8RYU	0345435419	595671727	Star Wars: Darth Maul, Shadow Hunter (Star Wars - Legends)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining story but thats about it...	I picked this book up while being apprehensive of how good it might be. The appeal of such a menacing character usually would draw fans in but many times these concoctions are lousy.  Well Shadow Hunter was a decent story and entertaining it was only a quick snack compared to what Star Wars fans may have wanted. The story reads very fast.  I sprinted through this book in a couple hours and didn't feel as though I missed a single word. In comparison to other Star Wars novels the writing is simple and fast.  The story itself is reminiscient of a Sylvester Stallone movie whereas on the surface it just is a shoot um up action story but you stay glued to see what happens. The unfortunate situation the author finds himself in is if you have seen or read the Phantom Menace  and have an ounce of common sense you already know what is going to happen after the first few pages so no surprises here. He does a good job of articulating Maul's prowress as an elite Sith warrior but he offers no history or explanation into what the Sith actually are. In oreder to escape the problems plaguing many other Star Wars writers Reaves centers the story completely around his own made up protagonists with Maul being the only developed Star.  Obi Wan appears but really offers little to the story. The characters he does create are interesting at times but his attempts to create mysterious pasts fail and knowing their fate you kind of find yourself just reading to see how it happens instead of what or why. Basically I found this book to be more entertaining than most Star Wars novels but it was a pure cotton candy read. No historical background info is explained nor are any events integral to the timeline of the overall theme of the universe. Couple that with the fact the plot has nowhere to go and nothing is really accomplished one could easily be discouraged after reading this book. Basically if you liked Maul and wanna read a fast action story to kill some time I definately recomend this bookbut don't expect some real developed story here with a climactic ending.<br />Story: 3 of 5 purely on action scenes and decent iagery but no real plot development is needed.<br />Writing: 3 of 5 simple and in your face descriptions. No hidden messages or convoluted descriptions here.<br />Characters: 2 of 5 decent likable characters but no real back story supplied and no explanation of the Sith.<br />Entertainment: 2 of 5 action scenes and the weak plot will keep you reading but the ending is unavoidable if you know the Phantom Menace.  Seems like a waste of time but still enjoyable.	2003-04-30
US	51341931	R3H2YLUBSCU776	0345428455	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Salvatore should stick to Forgotten Realms!	I am a big fan of Salvatore's Drizz't novels and was excited when he came out with a Star Wars book.  Seeing that he was influenced by Star Wars greatly in many of his other novels ... I thought he would succeed as a worthy adition to the somewhat lacking class of Star Wars authors.  Well in my opinion he really failed to meet expectations.  One of Salvatore's great skills is not superior writing or story but his ability to create such wonderful, diverse and convincing characters.  Well tackling the Star Wars universe seems to have thwarted his creative ability since he was required to use existing characters.  I find this is the case for most of the Star Wars novels since none of the authors can truly keep any of the main charters in line with their film counterparts.  Salvatore struggled with them greatly.  At times their emotion and personality was nowhere near what George Lucas had established. ...  The enemy race the Vuuzhan Vong or however were a pretty chinsy foe and it seems authors are really stretching for Star Wars ideas.  The book was enjoyable for the most part as a Star Wars story but nowhere near what Salvatore is capable of.  Timothy Zahn still is the only author to succeed in writing convincing Star Wars books in my mind.	2003-04-28
US	51341931	R1WWY63NMD33HT	0312266340	789296789	Paradise Bay: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great story but lacking a strong finish.	A very entertaining read that caught my eye and I couldn't put it down.  Pratt weaves a unique story of love, life in the 50-60's and Vietnam.  I found the story to be a real page turner and Pratt's simple but effective prose worked wonders.  The life of Levi especially during the war was very well done and the characters were colorful and personable yet also innocent at times.  The story itself is a compelling tale yet unrealistic at times the story reads extremely fast.  I ploughed through it in a couple hours and I am not a fast reader.  Each page kept me going.  My only problem with the story was it's Hollywood style happy ending.  Filled with grief, mourning, and hardships throughout I was shocked to see that in the end Pratt briefly wraps it all up in a simplistic manner and over the course of only a couple pages.  had the ending been more realistic and thoroughly portrayed I would have given it a 5 star rating.	2003-03-26
US	51341931	R28U767EI7XHMR	0345433726	772463638	The Civil War Trilogy: Gods and Generals / The Killer Angels / The Last Full Measure	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Truly genius works!	I had never been much of a civil war buff until after I saw the film Gettysburg.  The movie was so good that I ran out and bought the entire trilogy.  I must say the the father and son duo have a gift for prose rivaled by few.  The most intriguing aspect about these novels is not only are they a great story but that they are inhabited with factual characters and events.  They do not read like history books rather more like a fictional novel and they are so well done you can almost believe that this is the exact way everything transpired.  What ulimately gets me about these books is not the great storytelling but at the characters the Shaara's develop.  The battle descriptions and plotline is adequately described but the interactions and conversations held between the main characters is amazing.  Plus the Shaara's obviously studied hard and every character is based upon a historical figure.  Even down to some privates.  This is a unique trilogy in that it began with the middle book (The Killer Angels) written by Michael.  After his death and the development of the film Gettysburgh, Jeff took over and wrote the first and last novels.  Jeff not only captures his fathers writing style and character development but he also furthers it.  The original novel by Michael was rather short yet still compelling.  Jeff's prequel and finale are much more in depth, longer, and full of more detail.  At times Jeff struggles a tad to keep some emotions in line with his fathers work and while these are not bad they tend to appear out of place in his own books.  Jeff's battle descriptions are also much more in depth than his fathers.  One finaly aspect that may hinder your enjoyment of Killer Angels is that the movie was pretty much taken from the book verbatim.  Therefore there aren't many scenes in the novel that never made it to the big screen.  This may be a let down if you are looking for more out of the novel but it still is a great read.  If you are into the civil war or just like to read great novels these are a must read.	2003-03-19
US	51341931	R2QGQ0ZKOOR0F1	0060931965	936594031	Without Reservation: How a Controversial Indian Tribe Rose to Power and Built the World's Largest Casino	Books	5	17	21	N	N	This book will outrage you one way or the other!	After reading this novel I couldn't help but feel I had just plowed through a book centering on the mafia.  but I wasn't!  It was a biography of an Indian tribe.  The amount of lying, betrayal, greed, and corruption that goes on in this story rivals anything that I have ever read.  And it is all true.  many investigations have shown that benedict's research is all exact and while Foxwoods and the Pequots obviously deny it all they can't hide.  Unfortunately the Federal government along with the state is completely involved with the billion dollar a year casino and refuses to do anything about the mistakes that were made.  Records show that those claiming to be Pequots aren't Indians at all.  If they are Indians they are not descendants from another tribe that did not reside in CT.  Furthermore those that came to claim tribal membership to the government only did so a few months prior to appearing before the Federal government.  As was shown in similar cases they would not have been recognized.  Basically what this book shows is how lawyers took advantage of early laws to establish a way to generate tons of money.  Through strong arm tactics, threats, and lies Tureen and his crew were able to get the Pequots recognized without the US government even attempting to check into the claim and also awarded them much more land than they originally were intending.  As the story pans out a huge web of corruption ensues.  benedict represents the story in such a compelling fashion you hardly believe it isn't fiction.  From Lawyers defending the small town of Ledyard jumping ship to side with the Pequots for profit and gains to the head chairman of Indian Affairs covering up laws to allow the Foxwoods casino to expand all paints a picture of how money rules our government.  Simpathetic to the tribe the Lawyers for the Pequots pushed and pushed and put Hayward and his rag tag band of potential Indians in a position to buy their way into anything.  When they wanted something theyjust paid the state of CT for it like their ability to get slot machines costing them 100 million every year in payments to the state.  Or through campaigne contributions to President Clinton the corruption goes all the way to the top.  This is a must read for anyone to see how money is all that matters in this great land of ours.  And that now even after all of this evidence has come to light the federal government refuses to take any action that would cost them that money.	2003-02-28
US	51341931	R3TMGER2B4LK4J	0671038559	934070076	The Woody	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Simply a superb entertaining read!	I had never read any of Leftcourt's works prior to The Woody and I am ashamed I hadn't.  This book had me rolling from the get-go.   You literally will be crying Senator Woody White's antics are so funny particularly in the beginning.  As the story develops the outrageous humor slows down but the story picks up magically.  It makes you wonder how much trouble could a public figure get himself into especially that close to an election.  The incorporation of real life public figures really adds something to this story especially during these times of governament corruption and the publics craving for tabloid press.  The characters Leftcourt does make up are all richly detailed and breath almost as well as their real life counterparts.  The names he assigns to these characters are also quite intriguing.  For instance Woody White's Chief of Staff's name is Ishmail.  Perhaps a relation to Melvill's famous Ishmail in Moby Dick and fits the same description as Ishmail is constantly hunting his senator down and trying to tame him.  This is just one of the numerous instances.  I really enjoyed this book and could not put it down.  Leftcourt also ties in story lines from some of his other novels which I have promptly ordered.  This story is just too entertaining to miss!	2003-02-24
US	51341931	R3V3QH9FP6M3C5	1566867142	78548285	Official Final Fantasy VII Strategy Guide, Playstation Version (v. 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must if you plan on doing everything FFVII has to offer!	With the help of this guide I have obtained and done everything that is possible in FFVII.  It would probably have been virtually impossible to complete this game in it's entirety without the help of this guide.  All of the sidequests are outlined to perfection and there is a lot of detail included on how to finish it all.  The highly informative strategies for the two hardest bosses in the game are also great if you really want to &quot;complete&quot; the game.  THis is a must have if you plan to finish this classic.	2003-02-21
US	51341931	R5YU73WZW1U1S	1562199285	432631521	Record of Lodoss War: The Grey Witch, Vol. 2 - Birth of a New Knight	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Amazing story!	If you were a fan of the movies or just an anime fan this is not to be missed.  The story differs extensively from the movies but you can see how it influenced the shows plot lines.  Focusing entirely on Karla you will be surprised how far the story came to become a 13 episode hit.  The Manga is nothing short of spectacular and the story is outstanding.  The artwork is well done and in b/w loses nothing.  All your favorite characters are here.  This is a must pick up if you loved the show.	2003-02-14
US	51341931	R28NDUVX923M9G	0553580337	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	What happened???	Yes House Harkonnen was not as good as the first novel but what hapened here?  It's almost as though they kept the downward spiral going as each book progressively gets worse.  I liked Atredies and enjoyed Harkonnen but this edition was pitiful.  The first half is boring and simple.  Never really gets to anything especially since I thought the second book set it up to be exciting.  Then the second half, while picking up the pace, it seems as though the authors were bored and couldn't wait to start the butlerian Jihad trilogy.  They just kind of hurry things along and wrap up the story with no real compelling conclusions.  The last few chapters are so simple I felt cheated.  If you have started the series you have to pick this book up to finish it off but don't expect to have an real compelling ending.	2003-02-14
US	51341931	R13TOWJG9UDC8X	0553580302	698766211	House Harkonnen (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Picking up where House Atredies left off...	The second novel of the Dune prequels picks right up where the last left off and keeps the story going.  I really liked the first novel and was looking forward to this one but was a little more disappointed with Harkonnen.  While it adds more to the overall trilogy it lacks little plot as a stand alone novel.  Basically it plods along for 700 pages with further story from the first almost as if they are just passing time until the third.  I don't like that attitude of publishing a trilogy for the sake of a trilogy and I have a nagging feeling that thats whats happening here.  However the book sdoes climax well and seems to set up a good start to the final chapter.	2003-02-14
US	51341931	R24GL47SWIX0T7	1562199374	30895875	Record Of Lodoss War Grey Witch Book 3	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	The final edition concludes with a bang!	Ending the original series of Lodoss War we final get the conclusion.  I won't spoil anything but you won't be disappointed.  This was a great story and one of the best Manga's I have read.  Well worth it.	2003-02-14
US	51341931	RWQI8XT2LNJVS	1562199455	141668816	Record Of Lodoss War Chronicles Of The Heroic Knight Book 1 (Record of Lodoss War (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Quick but entertaining!	In true Lodoss War fashion this story is compelling and a great read.  This is the first volume that starts it all off and is what the 27 episode tv series was based on.  It picks up about 5 years or so after the Grey Witch series but is not entirely connected.  A few characters have changed a bit and have no relationship with each other even if they previously did.  If you know this going in then the read is fine because the author is technically writting two seperate stories.  The plot line is also failry similar but new characters get involved.	2003-01-29
US	51341931	R3K77OBI5ANPRB	0061091847	625478691	Mafia Dynasty: The Rise and Fall of the Gambino Crime Family	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A solid Mafia history	I picked this book up on a whim.  I had just read the Westies and I wanted to learn more about the Italian mafia.  Well this book was probably the best I could have picked up for an overview and it led me to some other more cetralized books.  I see a lot of reviewers have complained that it centers too much on Gotti and yes this is true.  In fact the book mostly focuses on Gotti and Castellano.  I feel this is because there isn't much to go on for the older bosses in the way of written history.  Davis does a good job of piecing together bits to create a history of the Cosa Nostra from the turn of the century to Carlo Gambino.  You can tell that information is pretty scarce because he moves quickly through the bosses and the histroy and you get to Castellano after like 200 pages.  Most of Davis's information comes from Gotti's and Castellano's tapes.  Therefore the remainder of the book gets very detail oriented and recounts much of the history at a pretty rapid pace.  One thing I think Davis could have done better would have to not be so repetitive about quotes.  He used many of Gotti's and Castellano's quotes from the tapes and testimony over and over.  But if you are looking for a solid history and are new to this genre of reading then this is probably the best you can find.  Then if you want more precise novels pick up; Boss of Bosses, Bound By Honor, The Westies, Wiseguy, Donnie Brasco, Underboss, etc...	2003-01-23
US	51341931	R2GFK3E88685C6	0812538234	518469550	Prisoner of the Horned Helmet	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Cotton Candy Fantasy but Great!	I have been on a big fantasy kick lately and I remember my friend was reading these years ago so I went to pick them up.  They are out of print but if you can find the means to get them do it.  They are not traditional and are quite interesting.  Based on the great comic they tell the tale of Gath of Baal and how he is tricked into becomming a prisoner of the Lord of Darkness.  The story introduces you to all the characters and we learn that Gath is one mean mother.  He is a loner and does not take to well to visitors but with the offer of more power Gath gets tricked into accepting a helmet which should make him the fiercest fighter in the land.  But the helmet does not have an immediate effect on Gath and he fights the evil temptations and uses the helmet to make himself better.  Through the quest Gath meets a young girl Robin and she becomes the focal point of the story and Gath's mission.  I won't get into much more detail and the story is quite good.  The books are short so not a lot of explanation is done it is just good story telling.  Most of the characters are good and the fighting is done well.  They are not traditional and many surpirses are offered.	2003-01-23
US	51341931	RRPBPDSQ27WY8	1562199196	217569914	Record of Lodoss War: The Grey Witch, Vol. 1 - A Gathering of Heroes	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A classic fantasy tale!	I am not a fanatic about Anime and Manga but I do know my way around some of it.  I loved Lodoss War from the start and probably watched the episodes numerous times each.  The second OVA was great as well but I wanted to get more into where this story came from so I picked up the Manga.  It was definately worth it.  The artwork is superb and the story is well done.  If you are a fan of the series check these out cause it is very interesting to see how much the story evolved for the films.  This series is rather short only 3 volumes but they are good reads and I highly recomend them to any Anime fan.	2003-01-23
US	51341931	R1FJ8E0BJI95SW	0451192575	75882587	Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia - A True Story by FBI Agent Joseph D. Pistone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Must read for any fan of the movie!	First off I loved the movie and have seen it numerous times.  It ranks with one of my al time favorites.  So naturally I figured I had to read the book to see how much was different.  Well I was kind of shocked because the movie and the book are very far apart.  The movie has all of the real figures in it that Donnie encountered but many of the stories are scewed to fit in Hollywood.  Some events didn't even happen or they happened in a different context.  but this didn't hurt my opnion any in fact it made me like the book more because it was fresh.  The writing is good, a bit winded, but solid and Agent Pistone recounts numerous great tales of crime and danger.  What is important about the book is that it shows that Agent Pistone was in no way in conflict with himself about where he and the mob stood as the film portrayed.  Pistone worked hard with the FBI and his fellow undercover agents and it is important to know that if you really want the true facts to the whole story.	2003-01-23
US	51341931	RHE2Y8ZAPFHYT	0446611778	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A pretty average read	As far as reviews go most people are pretty accurate with their own reviews above so I will just concur with them.  The story was quite long and it just didn't need to be.  I'd say a 400 pages read would have been sufficient.  The plot was not overly complex either.  In fact anyone can really deduce most of the plot from the first hundred pages.  There are a few twists that get ya in the end but it isn't as convincing since you already have a good idea about things.  Definately not a thriller.  The action was good but in between action the story would bog down.  Also why is it every woman in this story was absolutely gorgeous, independant, and confident, yet at the same time they all were so reliant on the main character and it is almost as though every one wants him as well.  I hate novels that do this.  Be a little creative.  However it was an entertaining read but nothing I would really recommend to anyone looking for a &quot;great&quot; book.	2003-01-22
US	51341931	R353UA4ZXK2AQA	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	7	13	N	Y	Change of heart!	This is more of an apology rather than a review.  I initially posted a review here that wasn't very favorable of this book but I had admitted I did not read the whole thing.  I still stick to my opinions to those first few chapters of the book however after forcing myself to finish it I realized I didn't give it enough of a chance before I reviewed it.  The chapter on education changed my attitude entirely for the book and I really came to like it.  It still at times becomes very much like one big complaint but the topics he covers later he does so with such a creative mind I loved it.  He made me feel the emotions I had back when I was struggling through public school.  This book is an excellent eye opener for Americans and even though it gets extreme at times that is fine because the true messages are hidden deeper and are more fun to find out.	2002-07-02
US	51341931	R9GPNB53WQY2W	1590072510	194848581	Stupid White Men: And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation	Books	2	17	22	N	Y	I really wanted to like this book!	But I just can't.  I ordered it hoping to get an insightful, humorous, and unbiased take on everything going on yet this book didn't make it.  I know very little about Mr. Moore and all this book proved to me was that he is way too liberal for his own good.  Or maybe I am wrong.  The book came across as just one big rant.  He just complains and complains and complains and nothing really gets accomplished.  Kinda like the government he is bashing.  It was not funny at all in fact I grew very tired trying to finish each chapter.  I give him some credit though because he has very good ideas but his delivery is awful.  If you want to hear mindless and often unfounded claims of outrageous behavior in this country and the crazy political talk shows on tv don't help ya then grab this book but if you are just a conscious person looking to gain some humorous or just plain insight to the state of things stay away.  The hypocrisy in this book is also stunning and thought when you have a liberal or a conservative arguing you can never be truly free of it I understand this but Morre gets so lost in his own rants that I truly think he forgets what it was he started out saying.  Another problem with this book which makes it unenjoyable is that after all his complaining and tirades he offers few if any solutions to the problem.  It seems like the only way to solve anything is if you are white kill yourself.  I have to admit though that I never finished the book.  I grew so tired of it all.  Maybe because I am not liberal enough or mabe because I am not paranoid or maybe because I just can't agree with him on many points.  I am not a conservative and I have never voted for a Republican or a Democrat (I did vote for Moore's beloved Nader).  I believe niether party functions for the common man but Moore simply seems to be too Liberal for his own good.  He has fallen into the traditional liberal stereotype by complaining complaining complaining and not offering any suggestion for repair other than just give everything to those who have nothing and take it all away from those who have it.  So if you really want to read this book I suggest you find it in a library or somewhere you don't have to pay for it (Moore would probably like that because then his big corporate publisher wouldn't get your money).  Just like my own review or Moore's book I found that he made very few intelligent points at all.  And in response to those ultra-liberals, Robin Hood was truly one of you but what happens when he steals money from the rich and gives it to you?  Who does he steal from next?	2002-06-17
US	51341931	RM1F0V9OC2E95	0744001404	134452549	Final Fantasy X Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games Signature Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Solid as always	As a big fan of the FF series I am rarely without my trusty stategy guide while plowing through the game.  Most people enjoy playng the game and discovering things on there own and I generally do that but the FF series and Square create such a massive game that it is so tough to find everything.  And when I play these games I wat to do EVERYTHING.  So if you are like that then you gotta have the guide.  It isn't quite as extensive as some of the previous versions guides as in it doesn't give very detailed walkthroughs but overall it is thourough enough to aid you in your quest.	2002-03-13
US	51341931	R1KHSMF3PSNB7U	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good but no Frank Herberts here	I started out skeptical of this novel for a couple reasons.  One I am not a big fan of Kevin J. Anderson.  His work on Star Wars and other series was just plain lousy to me.  It was simple reading, played out story, and just down right uniinteresting.<BR>  The second thing is that it is not Frank Herbert.  I understand Brian is as close as we can get but when comparing this and the series to Franks epic series there is no comparrison.  The characters have different attitudes.  The descriptions are somewhat off.  The tone of the novel doesn't match up with the original books.  It is annoying how some characters in Frank's novels don't know each other but now in these prequels they are great buddies.  Kinda like Leto and House Vernius of Ix and Gurney Halleck and Liet Kynes.  Finally the book lacks the old biblical sense that Frank put into his.  It seemed in Franks novels ever sentence was trying to be prophetic and hold meaning while these novels are just playful fun with some deeper meanings but nothing like his fathers. <BR>  However I did give the novel 4 stars because even though it doesn not mesh with the original Dune works it is still quite entertaining, a fun read, and it clears up many questions to those left ambiguous in the original Dune series.  So if you are a Dune fan and can get over the discrepencies between the works and just go with the flow you will enjoy this series.	2001-10-21
